---
author:
  name: kentlew
  picture: 110411
body: "We just had our last SoTA board meeting before we all gather in Buffalo for
  TypeCon, and I tell you, it's shaping up to be another great week.\r\n\r\nLast year,
  I know there were a number of Typophiles in attendance whom I did not really get
  a chance to talk to or even meet. Once again, I'll be managing some of the logistics,
  wrangling buses, and overseeing front-end this year; and I realize that when I'm
  in that mode I can sometimes put out a \"Don't bother me, I'm busy\" vibe. But don't
  buy into it. Seriously, come up and introduce yourself. \r\n\r\nYou might have to
  tell me your screen name or otherwise jog my memory. I always think about this too
  late to do anything, but wouldn't it be great if we could have figured out a way
  to cross-check the TypeCon registration database with the Typophile membership and
  get an image of every Typophile's avatar on the TypeCon badges. Sometimes it's tricky
  to match up a face & name to an avatar & screen name.\r\n\r\nHope to see lots of
  fellow Typophiles in Buffalo.\r\n\r\n-- Kent.\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Ditto.
  created: '2008-07-11 16:48:48'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Don't tell me the lights are shining anyplace but there! \r\n\r\nSame here
    y'all. I always look grumpy even after coffee. "
  created: '2008-07-11 17:47:36'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: <a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/ebensorkin/1118099298/">Not so!</a>
  created: '2008-07-11 18:11:47'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'Horrors! That is clearly before coffee. '
  created: '2008-07-11 18:59:59'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "<a href=\"http://flickr.com/photos/zara/1036446030/in/set-72157601323882950/\">This
    is not what I call grumpy.</a>\r\n\r\nI too am looking forward to seeing everyone
    and meeting new folks. I'll be the one with the name tag that says \"zara.\" :)"
  created: '2008-07-11 19:31:24'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Wham! The wig strikes again!\r\n\r\nIt stinks that I'll be missing out on
    all of the fun. And I even had a friend in Buffalo who was willing to put me up
    for a few days!"
  created: '2008-07-12 00:02:18'
- author:
    name: Stefan H
    picture: 109742
  body: "Kent, Stewf and Zara... look forward to catch up with you all soon ;-)\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-12 00:07:34'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "I'm really looking forward to seeing people again, particularly after having
    to miss out on last year. I can personally vouch that almost* everyone above was
    a pleasure to hang out with. \r\n\r\n*Nothing personal, I've yet to meet a few
    of you. Hopefully that'll change. "
  created: '2008-07-12 03:36:42'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: "I'm in Detroit, on my way to majestic Buffalo. I can't wait to see everyone!
    I'm really excited about all the speakers this year, but am jazzed at seeing Sagmeister
    for the first time and Herr Spiekermann yet again - he never fails to please.\r\n\r\nI
    probably won't look grumpy, before or after coffee - more likely dazed and confused,
    but happy.\r\n\r\nLet's work on the Typophile avatar thingie for next year. Who
    wants to take it on?"
  created: '2008-07-12 14:27:49'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: Tamye - that is something we can definitely pursue here at Punchcut. I imagine
    the magical Christian can write a fancy script to automate the collection of avatars.
  created: '2008-07-13 00:29:54'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "So sorry I can't be there. This will be the only TypeCon I've missed since
    my first 'Con; TypeCon Minnesota. This year overlaps with a personal, family engagement
    (we're wishing my parents off on their upcoming humanitarian mission).\r\n\r\nI'll
    miss the late night dinners with all kinds of random and fascinating conversations
    including watching design rockstars explain the Helvetica R on a cocktail napkin.
    I'll miss exploring random cities with friends that I only see once a year at
    the 'Con. \r\n\r\nEnjoy Buffalo! I'm also bummed that I won't see [[P22]]'s home
    turf. =/\r\n\r\nRegarding the avatar/icon it's a great idea. I hope everybody
    will keep Twitter active with TypeCon action. Use the \"hashtag\" #TypeCon when
    you're there. Or you can post directly to Typophile from your smartphones. "
  created: '2008-07-13 09:08:28'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'Help a player out: What''s the Typophile Avatar Thingie? Is that the tee
    design with all the avatars made into a T?'
  created: '2008-07-14 16:36:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Carl, it is the TypeCon name badge that has your own avatar on it so that
    everyone will recognize you :-P\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-07-14 16:47:18'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'A-ha! I like that. I suppose anyone who feels inclined could print them out
    and stick them on their badge this year. Not automated, but still possibly helpful.
    Or someone could bring a button-maker and we could make buttons with the avatars.... '
  created: '2008-07-14 16:53:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Sounds like a plan!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-07-14 16:56:20'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Isn\u2019t this why most of us use our real names on Typophile?"
  created: '2008-07-14 17:31:28'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>I suppose anyone who feels inclined could print them out and stick
    them on their badge this year.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm doing that.\r\n\r\n> <em>Isn\u2019t
    this why most of us use our real names on Typophile?</em>\r\n\r\nTrue. But for
    example, I have a photographic memory but am really bad at remembering names.
    It's more easy for me to remember someone's face than his/her name. So the avatars
    help a lot, even if you're using your real name."
  created: '2008-07-14 18:20:32'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "><em>I\u2019m doing that.</em>\r\ngood idea.\r\nwhen trying to keep track
    of who said what in a thread, I find myself thinking kind of like: \"OK, Bold
    white \"J\" in a black square said... and white sans letters \"Ms\" in a red gradient
    filled square replied with...\" It's just easier that way :o).\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-07-14 21:03:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Script R in a green field makes a good point :-P\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-07-14 21:38:20'
- author:
    name: amyp
    picture: 109556
  body: Carl, Should I bring my crafty button-maker? ;)
  created: '2008-07-14 22:24:28'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'I don''t suppose it makes square buttons, does it Amy? In any case, if you
    do, we could all print our avatars a certain size and have buttons. What size
    buttons can you make? If they are bigger than an inch, it would be worth it. You
    can keep the button after the conference for other meetings.  '
  created: '2008-07-14 23:38:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I can see the sign now \"Amy's Button Factory and Suvlaki Shop\" :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-07-14 23:42:19'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "Arrived a few hours ago myself, after a nasty 12-hour trip from Toronto (yeesh:
    a canceled flight from Toronto to NY last night - where I was to have dinner with
    friends before flying to Buffalo this morning - and thus 3 hours of sleep to catch
    the make-up flight to Laguardia at 6am, shuttle to JFK, delayed flight to Buffalo,
    &, etc., &c.; as I said: yeesh), and so stumbled into the Hyatt around 4:30pm,
    got the computer hooked up, had a long shower, and now about to crash.\r\n\r\nBUT,
    looking forward to the coming days. I'm planning on the shuttle-trip to RIT tomorrow,
    and already snuck a peek at the Grosvenor exhibit (it looks to be delicous, although
    it's simply not right that the books are held captive under glass).\r\n\r\nIs
    there usually some sort of informal gathering at these things to help identify
    who's here for Typecon?\r\n\r\nOh, and does anyone know where Paradise Press is?
    I'm taking in the letterpress workshop on Wednesday and can't find an address
    for PP...\r\n\r\n\r\nJason"
  created: '2008-07-15 02:07:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Isn't Toronto about a 3-hour drive to Buffalo?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-07-15 02:33:12'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "Don't get me started Chris (too late). When my flight from Toronto to NY
    got canceled last night, I attempted to book a bus from TO to Buffalo, rather
    than fly the 500 miles to NY only to turn around and fly back the same distance,
    and in the process I canceled my morning flight from TO to NY, and then attempted
    to cancel my NY-Buffalo flight, only to find that simply to KEEP my return flight
    from Buffalo-NY on the 21st it was going to cost $300. That's $300 for the privilege
    of NOT taking the NY-Buffalo flight. Makes sense, right?\r\n\r\nSo, onto the TO-NY
    flight went I, and then onto the NY-Buffalo flight, which was completely bungled
    by Delta. Why didn't anyone tell me not to fly Delta?\r\n\r\nBut, to return to
    your simple question: it's actually 2 hours. 125klms. My cab driver from the Buffalo
    airport to the Hyatt told me it would have cost $200 to take a cab.\r\n\r\nGood
    thing I'm half drunk on sleep deprivation, because for the moment the whole thing
    seems pretty funny..."
  created: '2008-07-15 02:54:11'
- author:
    name: jonathanhughes
  body: "Partadise Press is located within Printing Prep. 12 East Tupper at at the
    corner of Washington Street. It's walkable from the Hyatt.\r\n\r\nThe Hyatt is
    on Pearl Street. Washington is two streets over. Head north on Washington a couple
    blocks and you'll hit Tupper."
  created: '2008-07-15 04:21:57'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'Hee hee. I am sleep deprived too but gleeful at the prospect of seeing you
    all again. '
  created: '2008-07-15 04:36:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am so sorry, Jason. That is a horrible story. Who says airlines are a service
    industry. I wish you well and hope you have a better trip home. Take care and
    at least enjoy the conference. Say hello to everyone for me?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-07-15 04:40:55'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "So you won't be there either, eh, Chris? Same here. :-(\r\n\r\nHave fun,
    everybody!"
  created: '2008-07-15 05:35:35'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Following Joe's lead I've <a href="http://www.typecon.com/talk.php?id=186">posted</a>
    a Twitter reminder on the TypeCon blog. There is also now a TypeCon Twitter account
    for official updates. Anyone I'm missing <a href="http://twitter.com/typecon/friends">here</a>?
  created: '2008-07-15 06:44:10'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I believe Jason Santa Maria is attending TypeCon this year and is also on
    Twitter.\r\n\r\nI'm so so so excited to see all of you! We leave in the morning
    and arrive tomorrow (Tue) early evening in time for the party. Yipee. Sleep deprivation
    here we come!"
  created: '2008-07-15 06:48:49'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Ricardo -- Not coming? Darn, I was looking forward to meeting you (again
    -- and maybe remembering this time ;-)\r\n\r\nJason -- Sorry to hear about your
    travel woes. That reminds me of the recent hassle I had getting from Albany, NY,
    to Montreal for the AAUP conference -- 10 hours! (via Newark; don't ask). Same
    deal: It would have been faster to drive, if I'd only been able to forecast the
    delays. Come up to the mezzanine if you get a chance after RIT and say hello.
    (We'll be working here until about 5:00.)\r\n\r\nJonathan -- Thanks for posting
    the directions to Paradise Press. I'm sure I'll be getting questions about where
    to go tomorrow and hadn't gotten around to figuring it out.\r\n\r\nOne great thing
    about this year's location is that almost all of the workshops (except the letterpress
    ones) are just across the street from the hotel, so none of that nasty bus business
    (except for some of the evening off-site events).\r\n\r\nAnd the main presentation
    space, marketplace, and galleries are all pretty much right together, so no wandering
    around several floors trying to find things (or worse, for us organizers, schlepping
    boxes up and down and all around).\r\n\r\nToday: the goodie bag stuffing!\r\n\r\n--
    K."
  created: '2008-07-15 12:33:16'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I was planning to go, but my wife broke her ankle over the July 4th weekend,
    so I am staying in Brooklyn to look after her.\r\n\r\nJamesM"
  created: '2008-07-15 13:13:24'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: Thanks for all the sympathy regarding my travel headache, but I obviously
    either made things sound much worse than they were, or else you folks are far
    too kind. Anyway, a decent night's sleep in a very comfortable room and all is
    well. Looking forward to meeting each of you over the coming days. And thanks,
    Jonathan, for the directions to PP.
  created: '2008-07-15 13:40:43'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: I was planning to go, too, but work was slow in June! :-/ Maybe next year,
    Kent.
  created: '2008-07-15 14:13:03'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "James -- \r\n\r\nWhat?! Bummer. Give my best to Nora. I hope she's up and
    around again soon.\r\n\r\n-- Kent."
  created: '2008-07-15 14:14:49'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: Stephen, can you sign me up for the Twitter list? Username is greenboathouse.
  created: '2008-07-15 14:17:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Was Nora giving you a roundhouse kick, James? :-)\r\n\r\nWish her a speedy
    recovery for me!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-07-15 14:40:46'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: "<em>\u201CI suppose anyone who feels inclined could print them\r\nout and
    stick them on their badge this year. \u201D</em>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s exactly the
    reason why I had some of these lovely <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/splorp/2177160414/\">Moo
    stickers</a> printed up last year. They\u2019re both dandy and dandy.\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/splorp/2177160414/\" title=\"Facebooks by
    splorp, on Flickr\">[img:sites/default/files/old-images/2177160414_cffc11502f_3524.jpg]</a>\r\n\r\n<em>\u201CI
    believe Jason Santa Maria is attending TypeCon this\r\nyear and is also on Twitter.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    is true. JSM\u2019s Twitter account is <a href=\"http://twitter.com/jasonsantamaria\">@jasonsantamaria</a>\r\n\r\nMy
    Veer cohort Jon Parker is attending as well. He\u2019s <a href=\"http://twitter.com/cacomixI\">@cacomixI</a>\r\n\r\nSee
    you folks on Wednesday."
  created: '2008-07-15 15:17:33'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "I too will be arriving tomorrow morning, [hopefully] around 7:30am. I have
    a very, very long night ahead of me. \r\n\r\n@Grant - I love those stickers! And
    of course your photography makes them look that much more awesome.\r\n\r\nSee
    yizall tomorrow!"
  created: '2008-07-15 19:23:46'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Stephen please add me on... http://twitter.com/tootsiewoo '
  created: '2008-07-15 21:22:33'
- author:
    name: Ale Paul
    picture: 110500
  body: I m pre boarding at Buenos Aires airport to NY then Buff arriving in 18 hours
    to the hotel.... see you soooooooon!
  created: '2008-07-15 21:53:03'
- author:
    name: sffontgrrl
    picture: 111394
  body: "See you all soon. Bummed I missed it last year like Chris R. but I'm looking
    forward to seeing the Usual Suspects and meeting new folks.\r\n\r\n-glenda (deguzman)
    bellarosa"
  created: '2008-07-15 23:52:05'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "I'm hopping in my little hatchback and driving up from Philly tomorrow morning
    (into the evening). I hope to be there with enough time to make myself look human
    for the Sagmeister talk.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://currentconfig.com/images/bbird3mos_2329.jpg\">This</a>
    is what I look like (I'm the tall one). And I'll be wearing a shirt with <a href=\"http://rdesignltd.com/\">this
    R</a> on it, probably on Thursday.\r\n\r\nI can't wait to see/meet/party with
    you all!"
  created: '2008-07-16 01:00:23'
- author:
    name: xtianhoff
  body: "My son chose to be born two years ago this weekend and my wife insists said
    occasion should be marked. I suspect he did this on purpose. He's always been
    very willful.\r\n\r\nSo as you all get buried in a veritable lake effect of typographic
    inspiration, whip up a nice NJH monogram, would you? It will make Nathaniel happy
    and I'll feel a part of a creative community even if I'm only wiping frosting
    from places frosting should never be."
  created: '2008-07-16 02:07:47'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Xtian -- You were sooo close to making it happen this year. Silly Nathaniel.
    \r\n\r\nSo, is this going to be a regular problem? We haven't quite settled the
    dates for next year's Con (still negotiating with hotels), but we're aiming to
    keep it in mid July again. When is his actual birthday?\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-16 12:32:01'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>next year\u2019s Con</em>\r\n\r\nWhere will it be?"
  created: '2008-07-16 12:46:01'
- author:
    name: xtianhoff
  body: "I'm hoping Nate's birthdays will be a regular thing, yes. \r\n\r\nHe was
    born July 21, 2006. He already recognizes many letter, but he's still weak on
    classification. He keeps calling Veljovic a Didone.\r\n\r\nI'll attend next year,
    one way or another. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Didone_5537.jpg]"
  created: '2008-07-16 14:31:46'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: 'Please add me to twitter. I''ve now met a few people and have toured around
    20 basements in the lovely greater Buffalo area. There is some great type on old
    valves and furnaces. The air quality down there leaves something to be desired
    though. '
  created: '2008-07-16 15:04:44'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Anybody know where I need to drop off the item I brought for the auction?
  created: '2008-07-16 17:03:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "As usual, see Tiffany, she knows everything :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-07-16 17:05:37'
- author:
    name: Dan Rubin
    picture: 115442
  body: "Can't wait to meet as many folks as I can manage this week - I'm already
    in Buffalo (just chilling out today/tomorrow with some friends), so I think I'll
    swing by registration today and see if I bump into anyone.\r\n\r\nI'm on Twitter
    (<a href=\"http://twitter.com/danrubin\">@danrubin</a>), checking @replies religiously
    on the iPhone.\r\n\r\nAre most people arriving Thursday?"
  created: '2008-07-16 18:19:48'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "It's a long commute, but I am driving down and back to T.O. tomorrow for
    a workshop, then again on Friday and Sunday. (Prior engagement on Saturday)\r\n\r\n(If
    anyone in Toronto needs a ride one of those days, email me: russ.mcg@gmail.com)\r\n\r\nAlso,
    please add me to the twitter thingy. \r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-07-17 02:17:50'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Next year's location is a closely guarded secret until it is revealed this
    weekend here at the Con. Afterward, I'm sure something will be posted at TypeCon.com
    for all to see.\r\n\r\nJames -- Bring your auction items to the Marketplace (back
    right side of the main area). If no one's there, come find me (usually around
    Registration) and I'll hold them in the office.\r\n\r\nChris -- Tiffany is still
    going to be involved with the auction; but actually, her Board term ended last
    year. So this year she gets to enjoy the conference as a regular \"civilian.\"
    ;-)\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-17 12:29:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Yay! Poor Tiff finally gets to relax and enjoy! How about you , Kent? You
    never sit down either!\r\nGive everyone my regards, Kent!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-07-17 14:58:51'
- author:
    name: dr_wisz
    picture: 115366
  body: Does any one know when the Typecon Store is opening... today?
  created: '2008-07-17 15:50:30'
- author:
    name: elizabeth_355
    picture: 112087
  body: Friday and Saturday 9:00 - 5:00, and Sunday 9:00 - 3:00.
  created: '2008-07-17 16:07:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Is Paul Hunt there at TypeCon or is he still in England furiously finishing
    his typeface?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-07-18 21:21:29'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Paul's here. He's on a panel about contextual letterforms this afternoon,
    along with Eben and John Hudson, which I'm moderating.\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-19 11:35:45'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Here he is...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/paulcap_5603.JPG]"
  created: '2008-07-19 13:06:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Say hello for me!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-07-19 14:29:24'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'I''m really happy to have met a few more Typophiles, but next year we really
    need to make a point of having a meet-up. I didn''t get to meet quite a few of
    you and this leaves me a little bit miffed and disappointed. '
  created: '2008-07-22 20:33:51'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Good point. Maybe we can get a Typophile party going. Or a designated meet-up
    point & time.\r\n\r\nAtlanta dates please!"
  created: '2008-07-26 06:21:16'
- author:
    name: James Yencken
    picture: 115467
  body: "I feel a little backwards, for having joined Typophile AFTER typecon; oh
    well. I met so many nice people asking \"Are you on Typophile?\" that I just had
    to join. \r\n\r\nThen again, real life meetups of Internet people are always exciting
    due to the \"Are they a serial killer?\" factor."
  created: '2008-07-26 08:06:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "James,\r\nI am a cerial killer, Allbran and Grapenuts :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-07-26 15:50:42'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "^ you would have had a field day in Buffalo Chris. It\u2019s a cereal sort
    of town."
  created: '2008-07-26 16:28:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: ":-)\r\n\r\nIs that why the old Shredded Wheat Box had a picture of Niagra
    Falls on it?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-07-26 17:37:51'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "<em>Shredded Wheat Box had a picture of Niagra Falls on it?</em>\r\n\r\nYes.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/nf015_6511.JPG]\r\n\r\nI
    think Mark meant Surreal sort of town."
  created: '2008-07-28 00:37:44'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Never could spell.
  created: '2008-07-28 00:44:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Mark and Rich!\r\nThat Shredded Wheat box brings back childhood memories:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-07-28 01:14:37'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"That Shredded Wheat box brings back childhood memories:-)\"\r\n\r\nThat
    packaging is so old, do you mean, from your parents childhoods, or Homer's childhood?\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-28 20:52:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL!!! My own childhood! That box was the packaging on the cerial I ate as
    a kid.\r\n\r\nOh, and Homer is my 1st cousin :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-07-28 21:14:34'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Surely you mean \"cereal\".\r\n\r\nNow if we could only get the Atlanta dates...\r\n\r\nIf
    you thought Buffalo was weird wait til you check out Atlanta; city of no zoning
    worth mentioning. You never know what's coming on the next block - could be anything.
    Sometimes it's a very good place to eat though. :-)\r\n\r\n-e."
  created: '2008-08-02 07:08:03'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: "Atlanta dates will likely be the same week as Buffalo was - in the July 14-19
    vein, if we get everything settled with our hotel of choice. We'll announce as
    soon as it's a lock - if we get into this hotel, I guarantee everyone will love
    it!!!\r\n\r\nAtlanta is going to be fun... another city full of friendly people
    to look forward to. Southern hospitality is no myth. Combine that warmth and laid
    back vibe with the sophistication of a grand city like Atlanta, and you know it's
    going to be some kind of wonderful."
  created: '2008-08-02 14:55:04'
date: '2008-07-11 14:05:10'
node_type: forum
title: Meet Me at TypeCon

---
