---
author:
  name: nic_mulvaney
  picture: 110382
body: Hey guys. I wonder if you can enlighten me on a few points. <BR> <BR>If you
  open a copyrighted font and change it &#40;possibly changing every point&#41;, can
  you then distribute it free or not? I presume not. But can you use it in commercial
  projects? &#40;e.g. you change a typeface for a logotype and branding&#41; Is that
  ok with the original designer if you have purchased the face? <BR> <BR>My main issue
  is, that I am producing an interactive piece where people can manipulate fonts and
  save them, for a gallery exhibit they can manipulate Bitstream Vera &#40;Open Source&#41;
  and walk away with their new font. But this will become a standalone application
  aswell, and I am thinking that if i supply the program, people can do what they
  want with it, and I have no responsabilities if they open copyrighted fonts and
  change them. Is this right? If people send me their changed fonts, can I legally
  display them on my website, or could I even distribute them? <BR> <BR>Please let
  me know your thought on this. Any help would be great
comments:
- author:
    name: nic_mulvaney
    picture: 110382
  body: Oops, I spelt legal wrong &#40;cringe&#41;. <BR>Hmm can&#39;t change it now.
  created: '2004-05-12 14:58:52'
- author:
    name: A. Scott Britton
    picture: 109910
  body: You&#39;re kind of treading on thin ice with that one.  In theory, you should
    be able to create entirely new fonts from existing glyphs because, well, they&#39;re
    entirely new fonts &#40;but even if this is deemed acceptable, and I&#39;M NOT
    SAYING THAT IT IS, it would always be a good idea to notate the original--not
    that you weren&#39;t going to do that&#41;.   <BR> <BR>One of the bigger problems
    you&#39;ll encounter is that, although typefaces can&#39;t yet be copyrighted
    in the US of A, the files that store and produce them can be.  Of course, a font
    file contains much more than just the points that comprise a set of glyphs &#40;metrics
    parameters, for example&#41;.  I&#39;d really look into it further before you
    proceed, you may be able to overcome legal actions, but a loss of honor might
    hurt tremendously more.
  created: '2004-05-12 16:15:10'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: The Vera fonts, like most fonts from established foundries are in fact licensed
    - Gnome use the term &#34;copyright license&#34; but it&#39;s a license nonetheless.
    The license is definitely generous, and allows the creation of derivative fonts,
    but you can&#39;t use the name Vera or Bitstream in the derivative font name and
    you can&#39;t &#42;sell&#42; the font on it&#39;s own. Details at <a href="http://www.gnome.org/fonts/"
    target="_blank">http://www.gnome.org/fonts/</a> <BR> <BR>There are plenty of font
    manipulation tools out there so it would seem as if you can produce such a tool.
    However I think you should provide disclaimers and warnings advising users of
    the tool to consult their font licenses. Most of the fonts your users will have
    on their systems would have licenses that would prohibit modification.  <BR> <BR>As
    for redistributing your customer&#39;s derivative fonts, there are very real legal
    &#40;trademark and copyright&#41; as well as ethical problems with this that would
    land you in hot water. <BR> <BR>Cheers, Si <BR>
  created: '2004-05-12 16:49:58'
- author:
    name: nic_mulvaney
    picture: 110382
  body: Yes I agree it would be a bad idea to redistribute derivative fonts. I won&#39;t
    do this. <BR> <BR>Though programs like fontlab and fontographer have no way of
    stopping you recompiling other peoples fonts, so I guess it&#39;s in the small
    print, not to do it and they bear no responsability for how u use it. &#40;hmm
    said the gun maker&#41; <BR> <BR>It seems like a fine line.
  created: '2004-05-12 17:23:37'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: I don&#39;t know about &#34;small print&#34;. I have a FontLab 3.0 printed
    manual handy and a page &#34;A Note on IP&#34; is right there at the beginning
    of the book - and again the issue is raised in the first paragraph of section
    1 &#34;Editing Fonts&#34;. <BR> <BR>Si
  created: '2004-05-12 18:58:32'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: 'Something like Vera is of course a special case. Most font licenses don&#39;t
    allow the user to modify the font at all &#40;though Adobe&#39;s license is an
    exception&#41;. Actually selling or even redistributing a modified font to people
    who are not licensed for it is almost certainly copyright infringement. <BR> <BR>To
    understand more about the legal situation in the USA, one could read the summary
    judgment from the Adobe vs SSI case: &#60;<a href="http://web.archive.org/web/20010303011442/http://www.bna.com/e-law/cases/adobe.html"
    target="_blank">http://web.archive.org/web/20010303011442/http://www.bna.com/e-law/cases/adobe.html</a>&#62;
    <BR> <BR>For a shorter summary of the judgment, including some legal analysis,
    see: <a href="http://www.atypi.org/10_Visitors/60_legal/30_typeface_protection/feinberg_html"
    target="_blank">http://www.atypi.org/10_Visitors/60_legal/30_typeface_protection/feinberg_html</a>
    <BR> <BR>Regards, <BR> <BR>T'
  created: '2004-05-12 19:23:40'
- author:
    name: nic_mulvaney
    picture: 110382
  body: 'Thanks Thomas <BR>I just read this. <BR> <BR>&#34;The permanent injunctions
    also bar defendants from creating or distributing any font software which copies
    or extracts the points in an Emigre or Adobe font software program. &#34; <BR>-
    <a href="http://www.emigre.com/eprSSi.php" target="_blank">http://www.emigre.com/eprSSi.php</a>
    <BR> <BR>&#34;So, in the USA, outlines in digital font software can be protected
    by copyright but the letterforms they represent cannot. &#34; <BR>- <a href="http://cgm.cs.mcgill.ca/~luc/kinch.html"
    target="_blank">http://cgm.cs.mcgill.ca/~luc/kinch.html</a> <BR> <BR>This is all
    getting confusing. <BR> <BR>Anyway, personally I experiment with my application
    with many &#39;copyrighted&#39; fonts and create some very interesting and unusual
    shapes. Shapes and form that inspire me to create ideas for other fonts. To me,
    that&#39;s progression and something that &#40;with the right amount of control&#41;
    I can explore further. <BR> <BR>If I was asked by a client to design a billboard,
    would there be a difference in me using straight helvetica or a manipulated helvetica?
    As I own the licence am I fit to do what I like with it? <BR> <BR> <BR>Here is
    what I found in the Fontlab 4.5 Manual. <BR> <BR>&#34;When you open an existing
    font, however, please be sure that modifying it does not violate copyright laws:
    some fonts are copyrighted as software so it is not legal to change them in any
    font editor.&#34; - p.52 <BR> <BR>&#34;If you have edited an existing font that
    was not your creation you must not remove the information contained on this page,
    or you may violate copyright laws.&#34; - p.169 <BR> <BR>And another interesting
    quote.. <BR>&#34;We decided to allow modification of the embedding setting only
    because we are sure that the users of FontLab are professionals who respect others&#39;
    rights to intellectual property. We assume that you will change the embedding
    setting only in your own fonts.&#34; p.170 <BR>'
  created: '2004-05-12 20:25:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: The new law of the land is that the &#34;tool maker&#34; is just as guilty
    as the &#34;tool misuser&#34;. Except of course if you have a congressman in your
    pocket. You say you don&#39;t like it?! Then get your bee-hind back to Arabistan!
    Oh wait, you were born and raised in Iowa? Well then, how unpatriotic!! <BR> <BR>hhp
    <BR>
  created: '2004-05-12 20:32:08'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Nic, <BR> <BR>What&#39;s confusing? <BR> <BR>Computer fonts are software.
    In the USA they are protected by copyright as software. The folks who make the
    fonts hold the copyright, and the license agreement defines what people who license
    the font can legally do with it. <BR> <BR>When it comes to making a logo or something,
    many &#40;but not all&#41; vendors allow you to convert text using their font
    to outlines in a drawing program, and then manipulate it. Some vendors put extra
    conditions on the usage of the font, like you have to credit them anywhere you
    use it! <BR> <BR>Regards, <BR> <BR>T
  created: '2004-05-12 20:49:36'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'I agree that the attitude of font tool creators has shifted over the years
    - looking on the back of an old FOG box three out of the six uses listed would
    break most EULAs.  <BR> <BR>But this probably has just as much to do with the
    vendors wanting to do the right thing as it does with fear of legal action, or
    bad PR. <BR> <BR>Cheers, Si  '
  created: '2004-05-12 20:59:17'
- author:
    name: nic_mulvaney
    picture: 110382
  body: Thanks. Yeah I want to do the right thing, and i&#39;ll contact various foundries
    if they would allow me to use some of their fonts in an exhibit. <BR> <BR>&#42;Edited
    Post&#42;
  created: '2004-05-12 21:10:57'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'In Adobe&#39;s &#34;Font FAQ&#34; items 10 &amp; 11 state: <BR> <BR><blockquote><hr
    size=0><!-quote-!><b>quote:</b><p> <i>10.   Can I convert the font software into
    a different format or modify font software that I have licensed?</i> <BR> <BR>Adobe'
  created: '2004-05-12 22:12:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Tiffany, it&#39;s worse: under the DMCA, Nic can be prosecuted for violations
    carried out by others with his software. Remember the Russian programmer that
    Adobe got arrested? <BR> <BR>BTW, your article on licensing is highly valuable
    - thanks for doing it! But will it eventually become available outside of Interrobang?
    <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-05-12 22:23:31'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Ok. So there is yet _more_ reading to do. Educate me, Hrant. Where can I read
    about this? Sounds like Nic should read it too. Could he have his software wrapped
    in his software&#39;s EULA which explains to those which use his software that
    they must check their EULAs?  <BR> <BR>&#40;Moved thread to RELEASE&#41;
  created: '2004-05-12 22:31:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: I don&#39;t know about me <i>educating you</i> - it&#39;s a lawyer thing -
    plus pretty hazy and controversial to boot. I guess the key &#34;big picture&#34;
    thing for any individual to keep in my is that coupled to corporate America&#39;s
    trump card -that you don&#39;t really need to be in the right, you simply need
    a big enough team of nasty lawyers to force an individual into defeat- the DMCA
    is all Big Money needs to reduce piracy, no matter that it&#39;s at the expense
    of societal decency. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2004-05-12 22:50:29'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: We&#39;re starting to play lawyers here, which is often fun, but the best
    advice would probably be for Nic to consult with a real lawyer.  <BR> <BR>
  created: '2004-05-12 22:58:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: For the technicalities, agreed. But no lawyer is going to tell him &#34;I&#39;m
    part of the problem.&#34; <BR>So he has to take any potential enthusiasm from
    legal counsel with a <i>bag</i> of salt. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2004-05-12 23:01:57'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Very true, Simon. I did not post intending to even suggest that I am offering
    legal advice. But, I can see that it sounds that way. Maybe we need a lawyer here
    at typophile. There must be at least one copyright lawyer on the planet that is
    also a type geek. ;&#41;
  created: '2004-05-12 23:04:49'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Thanks,  <BR> <BR>I started to write that I thought that the DMCA dealt with
    circumventing protection mechanisms, and that aside from the &#39;embedding permissions&#39;
    most fonts don&#39;t contain any protection mechanisms, but then realized that
    I know next to nothing about the DMCA and that I probably shouldn&#39;t comment
    on it. So this criticism was really aimed at myself.   <BR> <BR>I also don
  created: '2004-05-13 01:50:12'
- author:
    name: c3007888
  body: Hmm, out of curiousity, a bit off track. What if there were a phototype/cast
    typeface that has not been digitalised &#40;font&#41;. If one were to digitalise
    it and make a few changes to it, is this legal?
  created: '2004-05-13 04:42:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'In the US it&#39;s totally legal. But as far as I know in Europe typeface
    designs belong to people irrespective of technology. And some countries are extremely
    strict: from what Peter Matthias Noordzij once told me, simply <i>scanning</i>
    some letters from a type specimen is illegal in the Netherlands &#40;maybe only
    if you re-output it though&#41;. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-05-13 04:49:01'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: 'Tiffany <BR> <BR>The Adobe FAQs statements you mention do not agree with
    Adobe&#39;s EULA posted on their website at:  <BR><a href="http://www.adobe.com/products/eulas/main.html"
    target="_blank">http://www.adobe.com/products/eulas/main.html</a> <BR> <BR>If
    you look more closely at Adobe&#39;s EULA for type they allow you to &#34;convert&#34;
    the fonts software into another format in section 2.6.4 but in section 3 they
    clearly state that except for converting the font software you are NOT allowed
    to modify it. <BR> <BR>Nigel'
  created: '2004-05-16 21:11:08'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: I&#39;ve always found that confusing myself, but Adobe&#39;s lawyers wrote
    both the FAQ and the EULA, so I leave that up to lawyers to sort out.... <BR>
    <BR>T
  created: '2004-05-16 21:31:56'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: Thomas <BR> <BR>As the EULA is the legally binding document I am sure that
    Adobe&#39;s lawyers would almost certainly hold a customer to it &#40;the EULA&#41;
    rather than an FAQ.  <BR> <BR>Nigel
  created: '2004-05-16 21:52:14'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: As I said, this sort of legal interpretation is one that I won&#39;t &#40;and
    can&#39;t&#41; venture into. <BR> <BR>Regards, <BR> <BR>T
  created: '2004-05-16 22:11:34'
- author:
    name: pstanley
  body: 'Nigel, the legal issues that would raise are more difficult than you might
    think, even if a company like Adobe would really want to take action against somebody
    who had relied in good faith on its own FAQ &#40;which I doubt&#41;. <BR> <BR>I
    think Thomas&#39;s point is that the FAQ presumably reflects the lawyers understanding
    of their own EULA. A court might well agree. Though I am a lawyer, I&#39;m not
    a copyright lawyer, much less a US copyright lawyer. But it seems to me that conversion
    of a font is clearly permitted &#40;subject to certain limitations&#41;: see 2.6.4.
    Modification of the font is also permitted, to the extent permitted in 2.6.4:
    see clause 3. So it all really comes down to what is meant by &#34;converting
    the font into a different format&#34;. That is probably ambiguous. Adobe clearly
    represents in its FAQ that it includes &#34;modifications&#34;, and most courts
    and judges would be reluctant, in the face of such a clear representation, to
    hold anyone liable so long as they had acted in good faith and consistently with
    the FAQ. <BR> <BR>&#40;FWIW, it seems to my nonexpert eye that the FAQ is probably
    right. It is clear from clause 3 that the contract regards conversion &#34;into
    another format&#34; as capable of encompassing some degree of modification, and
    as being permitted on the terms of clause 2.6.4. I don&#39;t see why conversion
    &#34;to another format&#34; should not be capable of encompassing a variety of
    modifications; indeed, if one views the &#34;font&#34; as software &#40;not as
    letterforms&#41; any &#34;conversion&#34; of format will inevitably involve modification.&#41;'
  created: '2004-05-16 22:25:16'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: 'Paul <BR> <BR>There are many advertising agencies that take their Adobe Type
    Library fonts and modify them as part of a &#34;new&#34; corporate typeface identity
    for their clients. <BR> <BR>That is where the real problem lies, not with individual
    use. <BR> <BR>Nigel '
  created: '2004-05-17 16:40:45'
- author:
    name: pstanley
  body: Well, surely at that point they may well hit problems. If they distribute
    the font they have modified to their client, then they are going outside the EULA,
    and outside the terms of the FAQ too. They could use the modified font internally
    for that client&#39;s purposes -- but nothing else. <BR> <BR>I suppose if the
    client licenses the font, and the advertising agency &#40;on behalf of the client&#41;
    then modifies it, the letter of the EULA and FAQ have been complied with. So long
    as the client has sufficient licenses for the original font, I don&#39;t see that
    the fact that the modification was done by a sub-contractor would matter. <BR>
    <BR>This doesn&#39;t seem unreasonable. So long as everyone licenses the original
    properly, Adobe doesn&#39;t mind it being modified. This seems realistic, perhaps
    generous. What they cannot have is people &#34;modifying&#34; fonts and then releasing
    the result into the wild. <BR> <BR>Of course the client is entitled to know whether
    they are getting pret-a-porter with alterations or something truly bespoke.
  created: '2004-05-17 17:59:14'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: Paul <BR> <BR>The following URL brings up another interesting issue. They
    have created an additional 10 derivative weights of Agfa&#39;s Rotis.  <BR> <BR><a
    href="http://www.typeguy.com/pages/alts/rotis.html" target="_blank">http://www.typeguy.com/pages/alts/rotis.html</a>
    <BR> <BR>They used Adobe&#39;s font software so they would need both Adobe&#39;s
    permission as well as Agfa. <BR> <BR>If, as may be the case, Adobe is not even
    permitted to create additional weights and so would not be in a position to authorize
    someone else to, and it is reasonable to assume that Agfa would want control of
    its own typeface, then why would a third party think that it has the right to
    do so. <BR> <BR> <BR>Nigel
  created: '2004-05-17 18:23:25'
- author:
    name: pstanley
  body: 'Well, on the face of it a person who has been granted rights by X is entitled
    to exercise those rights. A third party might come along and stop them if the
    rights were not X&#39;s to grant. But in those circumstances X&#39;s customer
    would expect to have a claim against X for breach of contract: You promised me
    I could use this font, and I can&#39;t. The customer is not obliged to second-guess
    the EULA &#40;though in some cases, such as embedding, the rights it grants are
    expressly contingent upon the rights granted by Adobe&#39;s supplier in Adobe&#39;s
    EULA&#41;. In theory, if the customer&#39;s supplier cannot &#34;make good&#34;
    the promise its EULA contains, the customer would look to recover any loss &#40;eg,
    the cost of adapting the font&#41; from its supplier, in that case Adobe. The
    limitation of liability provisions in most EULAs might be a problem, but their
    enforcement would not be a foregone conclusion in many jurisdictions. <BR> <BR>Of
    course, I&#39;m not commenting on the specific case you cite. Embarking on such
    a wholesale modification project pushes at  the boundaries of the Adobe EULA in
    any event &#40;depending on how it&#39;s done&#41;, and might raise trademark
    issues too. I doubt it would be rational to embark upon such an endeavour without
    squaring the licence issues first explicitly; I expect something similar happened
    here.'
  created: '2004-05-17 22:03:11'
- author:
    name: taran80
    picture: 110240
  body: it&#39;s interesting.. and what if i&#39;ll draw in photoshop characters similar
    to some from commercial pixel font - as i understood its legal in usa? lil weird
  created: '2004-05-24 14:27:52'
date: '2004-05-12 14:55:59'
node_type: forum
title: Legal issues regarding altering fonts.

---
