---
author:
  name: cardinal
body: "Through the search, I've found one very useful discussion on this topic, \r\nwhich
  is now 3 years old.   http://typophile.com/node/16467\r\n\r\nIt seems that the task
  was started, but when I search for these fonts (for purchase/for use) I am having
  trouble locating them. \r\nI am also very interested in designing a few different
  fonts for these languages, beginning specifically with Ojibwe.\r\n\r\nI am culling
  my research to hopefully write a grant to begin work on this. I appreciate all help
  the typophiles can provide! \r\ncardinal"
comments:
- author:
    name: jonathanhughes
  body: "This might be useful:\r\n\r\nhttp://action.attavik.ca/home/langcom/en_fonts.shtml?AA_EX_Session=94ad847566a7e5ce70ce0272c2182046\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-11 17:09:08'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Might want to drop Ross Mills a mail.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2008-07-11 17:22:04'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Andrea, drop me a line as well.\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-11 17:38:56'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "You may want to explore Zapf's effort in the 70's with Chief Sequoya's alphabet
    of the Cherokee Indians (Native Americans).\r\n\r\nI believe it was a Walbaum
    derivative cut by Walter Hamady with Zapf.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-07-11 17:42:29'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: 'Depending on the languages you are looking for, you can ask John Hudson here
    as well. He''s done some work on First Nations languages. '
  created: '2008-07-11 18:09:13'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "Andrea:\r\n\r\nCheck in with me some time re Ojibwe and Dakota/Lakota.\r\n\r\nwilliam.powers@mnhs.org\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2008-07-11 19:33:44'
- author:
    name: cardinal
  body: "Thanks everyone! this is fantastic! Will be in touch soon.\r\n\r\nRight now
    I am interning (in exhibitions, as a graphic designer) at the National Museum
    of the American Indian in NY and am shocked that even in our library, we have
    so few examples of Native written languages. Most translations are phonetic anglicizations,
    which are helpful for me to pronounce (but not really!), but are absolutely ugly
    when compared to the Native syllabary.\r\n\r\nps. I think the Cherokee font is
    one of the most developed, but the applications I've seen of it (probably not
    Zapf's!) are obv. roman character driven and therefore, leave something to be
    desired. "
  created: '2008-07-11 19:57:14'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "What do you mean by \"the Native syllabary\"? Sequoyah's Cherokee syllabary?
    I'm unaware of any singular and universal native American writing system developed
    by native Americans. (Even Sequoyah's system is clearly Latin-inspired.)\r\n\r\nOf
    course, I'm no expert in this area, and would love to be enlightened.\r\n\r\nMy
    earlier comment about getting in touch offline was based primarily on assuming
    that you were looking at Latin-based systems of transcribing native languages.
    Even these have a very limited number of decent typefaces available....\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-07-12 04:40:46'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Thomas\r\n\r\nI don't think it is so much a matter of fonts, but a matter
    of software -- either in the font or in the applications programs. All my experience
    comes from typesetting books with some of these languages, primarily Apache, Kiowa,
    Lakota, Navajo, and just a little with Nahuatl, Maya, Tzotzil, Tzeltal, Tojolabal,
    Tabasco Chontal, Purepecha, Sierra Zapoteco, Isthmus Zapoteco, Mazateco, \xD1ah\xF1u,
    Totonaco, and Huichol.\r\n\r\nAs far as I know, none of these languages had a
    written form other than using the Latin alphabet. The problem is the various orthographies,
    some dating back to people working long before laptop computers (e.g., Ella Deloria
    & Lakota), who would use marks easy to make with a pencil (dots at various places,
    for example; hard to typeset). Later, the problem was to adapt to the typewriter
    & to some extent print, so other marks were used -- sometimes needing a touch-up
    with a pen if you were limited to the typewriter.\r\n\r\nEven here, there was
    no standardization across languages -- even ones with common roots, like Navajo,
    Apache, Kiowa, etc. (Athabaskan roots) so a nasalized vowel in one might be signaled
    by an ogonek, but with a macron below or underline in another. Long vowels can
    be denoted by doubling, or by a macron. Etc.\r\n\r\nAll these can be made up for
    any font, and it is much easier now with OpenType. The problem is that the Unicode
    Consortium will not encode new characters which contain only additional diacritics
    already encoded, but most fonts do not have the needed routines in any ccmp or
    mark feature so the characters can be easily accessed.\r\n\r\nAs to Cherokee,
    it is a bit political. The (at least Eastern) Cherokee have an official font;
    that it looks like a 1890s newspaper headline font doesn't bother them. There
    is some interest in making a font out of Sequoia's hand-written version of the
    syllabary, and it would make a nice script. Not too many Cherokees read or write
    Cherokee, so there is some movement to make it easier to learn by simplifying
    the syllabary -- by removing about half of it. The Cherokee are split on that
    one. Moreover, the few people at the Cherokee Museum who write Cherokee use the
    Linguist Software system predating Unicode, back when there were both PC and Mac
    formats (they use PC).\r\n\r\nThese are transitional times; we are moving from
    what could be easily rendered on a typewriter, or the old 126-character fonts,
    to what can be rendered with the  possibilities with Unicode & applications programs
    that support it.\r\n\r\nFWIW"
  created: '2008-07-12 13:29:40'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Charles,\r\n\r\nI'm confused. In your first pararaph you say that fonts aren't
    the problem, but it seems to me that in your fourth paragraph you are saying the
    opposite.\r\n\r\nThese days, InDesign and the Windows version of MS Office support
    OpenType mark attachment and 'ccmp', so I don't see app support as being a major
    barrier (though support in Mac Office would be nice - it isn't there yet, is it?).\r\n\r\nBTW,
    I've looked at the free (and official?) Cherokee font that's available. It's utter
    junk in both design and execution. Bizarrely irregular stroke weights, sidebearings
    chosen by rolling dice, extrema often ignored in point placement, non-Euclidean
    geometry of curves (oops, read too much H.P. Lovecraft!).... yes, I exaggerate,
    but only a little.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-07-12 23:35:58'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Hmmm, it seems there are several Cherokee fonts available, all with pretty
    generic names like \"Cherokee\" making them hard to tell apart,\r\n\r\nMy scathing
    words above apply to the 1993 Cherokee font by Joseph LoCicero IV.\r\n\r\nThe
    2005 official font by the Cherokee Nation and Tonia Williams, which I had looked
    at long ago, is not *as* bad, but still pretty awful. It can't decide whether
    it's monoline or if it's high-contrast Didone. No overshoots for the rounds. Inconsistent
    stroke weights. Inconsistent stress. Spacing needs to be thrown out and redone,
    because it's useless. But at least there are points at extrema.\r\n\r\nIf they're
    going to go to the trouble of providing keyboard drivers and such, you'd think
    they would/could use the proper encoding.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-07-13 01:02:13'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>I\u2019m confused. In your first pararaph you say that fonts aren\u2019t
    the problem, but it seems to me that in your fourth paragraph you are saying the
    opposite.</cite>\r\n\r\nSorry, I wasn't clear. Or precise . . . or both.\r\n\r\nWhen
    I said \"I don't think we need new fonts,\" I should have said I don't think we
    need new typefaces. I don't think there is anything wrong with setting Native
    American languages in Arno, or Quadraat, or any good font for the text. You shouldn't
    pick a font to try and make the text \"look Native American\" -- certainly not
    at the expense of that text. (I once worked with a designer who didn't want to
    use a \"European looking\" font for Lakota, so she picked Goudy Sans. Far as I'm
    concerned, that doesn't look good for anything.)\r\n\r\nWhile the typefaces may
    be OK, the fonts aren't. If you don't use OpenType, you have to used hacked fonts.
    And even if you do use OpenType, you have to make up either characters or features;
    probably both. As it happens, I spent the afternoon working on Arno, so as to
    use it for a text with Nahuatl.\r\n\r\nBut typesetting isn't the only or most
    important issue. Unless there are text editors that allow the needed characters
    to be typed relatively easily and to appear close to correct, no one who writes
    will use them. I know one author who uses an ancient WordPerfect system because
    his manuscripts look better that way. Never mind that converting these files for
    typesetting is an hair-pulling, expensive chore.\r\n\r\nAnd while Omniglot & Wikipedia
    & etc. don't get the details of Native American languages quite right, this just
    points up the problem. Nasalized vowels in Kiowa really shouldn't be underlined,
    they should have macrons below. The glottal stop in Apache is an apostrophe, but
    it is a \"typographer\" apostrophe (U+2019), not a ASCII apostrophe. Etc.\r\n\r\nI'll
    allow that's a semi-elitist viewpoint. At some level, if people use underlines
    and ASCII apostrophes because they are there and relatively easy to use, maybe
    that will become the preferred orthography.  \r\n \r\nMy guess is something like
    this is what's happening with Cherokee. The Cherokee Museum already owns, and
    will continue to use MS Word on a PC. For them, the cost of just one copy of InDesign
    would mean not doing something else, and I would guess they feel the time needed
    to learn InDesign would probably be better spent on something else as well. They
    have already bought Linguist Software Cherokee (hacked Type 1 font), and have
    learned to use it. Why change? Upgrades cost money. Most material isn't \"typeset\"
    anyway. (I'll not comment on the Official Cherokee font, though if you look at
    <cite>Signs of Cherokee Culture: Sequoyah's Syllabary in Eastern Cherokee Life</cite>
    you will notice that the Cherokee not supplied as art was set in a different typeface.)\r\n\r\nSo,
    there is this tension between those of us who care for the aesthetic presentation
    and those who are trying to increase the use -- hence ease of use -- of these
    languages."
  created: '2008-07-13 04:50:21'
- author:
    name: Chris_Harvey
  body: "If your interested in Ojibway fonts (and Native language fonts/keyboard layouts
    in general), have a look at http://www.languagegeek.com\r\n\r\nChris"
  created: '2008-07-14 22:59:59'
- author:
    name: kholvn
  body: Hey! I'm new to the board but if I may just say that back in the early to
    mid ninties, there was a man who developed a font for the Mac and it was so easy
    to use. All you had to do was type in the phonics and it would come up in Cherokee
    syllabary. It was the best! I believe that the western Cherokees now have something
    like this for the PC. I'm not sure if this helps any at all but I thought I'd
    just let you know.
  created: '2008-08-19 08:40:27'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.p22.com/rtf/canadiansyllabics.html\">Jim Rimmer's Canadian
    Syllabics</a>\r\n\r\nIt really is a shame that there are so few fonts for these
    languages. I am including support for Din\xE9 Bizaad (Navajo) in my typeface I
    am currently working on, and it is next to impossible to find any Din\xE9 text
    online. Of course some of this is due to the fact that it is such a little-spoken
    language. But I'm afraid that the lack of fonts compounds the problem of the language
    not being used more in print."
  created: '2008-08-19 11:19:44'
- author:
    name: Tom Gewecke
  body: "Navajo just requires Latin script, so I don't see how lack of fonts could
    be a significant issue with that language.  Also I think it is by far the most
    widely spoken native american language (probably over 100,000).  The reason you
    don't see much text is due to the extremely low literacy rate in it, and perhaps
    also a certain cultural lack of interest.  One example is\r\n\r\nhttp://nv.wikipedia.org/wiki/\xCDiyis\xED\xED_Naaltsoos\r\n
    \ "
  created: '2008-08-19 16:54:01'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Navajo requires vowels with ogoneks. You might be amazed at how many fonts
    lack these -- Also, in the Wikipedia page you reference, the [[glottal stop]]
    is signaled by an ASCII apostrophe. Far be it from to tell Navajo's they are wrong,
    but the usual orthography for Navajo & most other Native American languages is
    the \"typographer's\" apostrophe, AKA raised comma (U+2019).\r\n\r\nNote that
    Omniglot gets it wrong, too:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.omniglot.com/writing/apache.htm\r\n\r\nAt
    first glance on the Omniglot site, one might think that U+0027 is correct; then
    you notice that Omniglot uses 0027 for an apostrophe everywhere.\r\n\r\nDoes it
    matter? Well, probably. In Polynesian, the glottal stop is signaled by U+2018.
    I've also seen proposals that the apostrophe not be used for a glottal stop, since
    it is confusing -- and of course, in every case, that's where 0027 is used for
    the apostrophe.\r\n\r\nFWIW"
  created: '2008-08-19 21:34:11'
- author:
    name: Tom Gewecke
  body: "If you look more closely at the Navajo wikipedia page, you will see that
    it uses a mixture of 0027 and 02BC.  The latter is what is used in the English
    Wikipedia page on the Navajo Language.  I'm not sure that the Navajo Nation has
    ever decided what is correct, but I think in any case you would want to avoid
    any \"punctuation\" mark to represent an actual character, and 02BC seems reasonable
    to me.  \r\n\r\nNavajo's requirement for ogoneks makes it no more disadvantaged
    with respect to fonts than Polish and Lithuanian.  How great is that?"
  created: '2008-08-19 22:04:30'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: Navajo requires ogoneks with acute marks, including O/o with ogonek, which
    are found rarely in <em>any</em> fonts. These characters could be composed if
    combining accents are supplied in the font (also found in few fonts), but using
    these would require sophisticated software, unless the typeface includes OpenType
    programming to do this for the user automatically (which is supported by few applications).
    Even the Wikipedia page you linked to has the problem of using the dotted iogonek
    together with the acute mark, unacceptable typography in my book. Native peoples
    deserve good type options as well.
  created: '2008-08-20 00:29:56'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Paul is right. For some reason, O,o w/ ogoneks are found in Latin Extended
    B, and few fonts seems to include characters from this. I'm not sure whether or
    not the acute w/ ogonek are in Latin Extended additional, but few fonts have these,
    either.\r\n\r\nIf you are making fonts, it is valuable to think in terms of what
    languages your fonts can cover. Just a few extra glyphs get you Yoruba, transliterated
    Arabic, transliterated Devanagari & Tamil, and of course, some of the Native American
    written forms. You need not fill out all of Latin B & Extended additional to pick
    up the glyphs needed of a number of languages.\r\n\r\nFor OpenType application,
    using ccmp is one way to provide for Latin characters with diacriticals not precomposed
    in Unicode.\r\n\r\nBut until there is general support for these languages in both
    ordinary text editors & web fonts, the Native American languages will remain a
    problem.\r\n\r\nMy $0.02\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-20 03:37:15'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "@Charles Ellertson:\r\n\r\nThe fundamental problem is that there are a *lot*
    of Latin-based languages which need \"just a few extra glyphs.\"\r\n\r\nPersonally,
    I'd think Yoruba and Pilipino/Tagalog would seem to be high on the list for easy
    languages to cover that are not covered by, say, WGL-4. At least by sheer number
    of speakers....\r\n\r\n(I'll be blogging on the general topic of extended Latin
    and drafts of future Adobe character sets shortly, btw.)\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-08-20 08:33:01'
- author:
    name: Tom Gewecke
  body: "It's all relative, but neither combining combining diacritics nor o-ogoneks
    seem terribly rare to me.  My OS X comes with about a dozen fonts that contain
    the latter.  I wonder what the comparable figure is for Vista? \r\n\r\nSince the
    characters with ogonek plus acute are never going to be in Unicode in precomposed
    form,  the quality of their display will inevitably depend on the smarts of the
    local software.  As pointed out, having both a dot and an acute on an i is not
    at all good.  A work-around for this with some fonts may be to encode the character
    as i-acute plus combining ogonek rather than vice-versa.\r\n\r\nBut no doubt a
    font designed specifically to display these things perfectly is the best solution.
    I'd welcome a chance to test Paul's font with my Navajo keyboard layouts when
    it is available."
  created: '2008-08-20 14:57:43'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: 'Tom, i can send you beta versions. Contact me off list: paul(a)pilcrowtype(dot)com'
  created: '2008-08-20 15:44:53'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I have included the Cherokee syllabary in my [[http://typophile.com/node/41105|Agamemnon
    project.]] Those forms are based on what I could divine as correct from the \"official\"
    font, the Plantagenet Cherokee font included with  Mac OS X, and a faded low resolution
    scan I somehow located of Sequoiyah's handwritten script. I would appreciate anyone
    with any degree of expertise commenting on it.\r\n\r\nI have also covered a broad
    assortment of \"rare\" accented characters in the Latin alphabet. I have no idea
    if this is adequate for any Native American language, but some may have got caught
    up by chance."
  created: '2008-08-21 00:04:45'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Greetings, all: This is Barbara Williams, spouse of Charles E, who's allowing
    me a brief post under his log-in. We worked last year with the Museum of the Cherokee
    Indian on their publication of the first Cherokee translation of contemporary
    fiction: \"Removal: A novel\" by Charles Frazier.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.cherokeemuseum.org/Merchant2/merchant.mvc?Screen=PROD&Store_Code=CM&Product_Code=14327&Category_Code=B\r\n\r\nWe
    considered using Plantagenet, but in the end chose Laser Cherokee, in part due
    to some variant forms in Plantagenet that traditionalists were not comfortable
    with. Feel free to write to me directly about this: As I understand matters, the
    glyphs in the \"official\" syllabary are under some review right now, in part
    due to discovery of some documents dating from the time of Sequoia. I'm not an
    expert, but could refer you to some folks who are. barbara[at]bwabooks[dot]com."
  created: '2008-08-21 14:00:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I think the Cherokee font is one of the most developed, but the applications\r\n>
    I\u2019ve seen of it (probably not Zapf\u2019s!) are obv. roman character driven
    and\r\n> therefore, leave something to be desired.\r\n\r\nIndeed.\r\nFYI, Zapf's
    design is like that. Which is not really surprising,\r\nconsidering Zapf has lauded
    Van Krimpen's jingoistic Greek fonts.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-24 19:51:05'
- author:
    name: kholvn
  body: You may already know this but the original syllabary that Sequoyah developed
    was totally different than what is used today. The symbols were simplified for
    the printing press. The original writing system is hardly known today. I, for
    one, wish we would go back to the original but I'm afraid it's too late. The current
    writing system is too common for that.
  created: '2008-08-25 06:37:33'
- author:
    name: kholvn
  body: You may already know this but the original syllabary that Sequoyah developed
    was totally different than what is used today. The symbols were simplified for
    the printing press. The original writing system is hardly known today. I, for
    one, wish we would go back to the original but I'm afraid it's too late. The current
    writing system is too common for that.
  created: '2008-08-25 06:43:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "1) How centralized is the current Sequoyah tribal leadership?\r\n2) Does
    the Sequoyah tribe harbor strong concerns about gradually losing its identity?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-25 07:19:25'
- author:
    name: kholvn
  body: "Let me just say this. There are three Bands of the Cherokee people. (there
    is not a sequoyah tribe nor was he ever a chief) There is the United Keetoowah
    Band of Cherokees In Oklahoma (of which I am a full blood member) - The Eastern
    Band of Cherokees (in North Carolina) - and The Cherokee Nation (in Oklahoma).
    Although there are three bands (three separate nations or governments) we are
    all the same people of the same blood. Of the three, the Keetoowahs are the more
    traditional band. More of our people speak, read and write our language. In fact,
    I'm a teacher of our language among other things. The Eastern Band, those around
    Cherokee, NC, speak a little differently than those who live in the west but we
    can still understand one another. In all three Bands, we have instituted programs
    and cultural camps to teach our youth the traditions, culture and language. We
    don't use the word preserve when we refer to our customs and traditions. We rather
    use perpetuate. In the shadow of main stream society, we are fighting hard to
    keep our traditions in tact and ongoing. Unfortunately, we are very aware of losing
    our identity which is why we incorporated these programs and other courses of
    action to teach the youth the various facets of our ways of life.\r\n\r\nAs I
    mentioned: I'm a teacher of our language but I am also a member of the Seven Clans
    of the Fire Camp Committee and a founding member of the Turtle Island Liars Club.
    As a teacher, I hold classes in the community on speaking, reading and writing
    our language (using the current version of the syllabary). Other teachers have
    classes in the public school system while others hold classes at some of the universities
    in Northeastern Oklahoma. Seven Clans of the Fire holds three camps a year to
    teach the crafts, traditions and customs of our people to the youth and anyone
    else who wants to learn the real culture of the Cherokee people. The Turtle Island
    Liars Club in a loose association of traditional storytellers of the Keetoowah
    and Cherokee people. We hold storytelling nights every few months to pass on the
    stories of our people.\r\n\r\nSo... all in all, we are very active in passing
    our culture down to our children and grandchildren."
  created: '2008-08-25 09:21:34'
- author:
    name: kholvn
  body: "Let me just say this. There are three Bands of the Cherokee people. (there
    is not a sequoyah tribe nor was he ever a chief) There is the United Keetoowah
    Band of Cherokees In Oklahoma (of which I am a full blood member) - The Eastern
    Band of Cherokees (in North Carolina) - and The Cherokee Nation (in Oklahoma).
    Although there are three bands (three separate nations or governments) we are
    all the same people of the same blood. Of the three, the Keetoowahs are the more
    traditional band. More of our people speak, read and write our language. In fact,
    I'm a teacher of our language among other things. The Eastern Band, those around
    Cherokee, NC, speak a little differently than those who live in the west but we
    can still understand one another. In all three Bands, we have instituted programs
    and cultural camps to teach our youth the traditions, culture and language. We
    don't use the word preserve when we refer to our customs and traditions. We rather
    use perpetuate. In the shadow of main stream society, we are fighting hard to
    keep our traditions in tact and ongoing. Unfortunately, we are very aware of losing
    our identity which is why we incorporated these programs and other courses of
    action to teach the youth the various facets of our ways of life.\r\n\r\nAs I
    mentioned: I'm a teacher of our language but I am also a member of the Seven Clans
    of the Fire Camp Committee and a founding member of the Turtle Island Liars Club.
    As a teacher, I hold classes in the community on speaking, reading and writing
    our language (using the current version of the syllabary). Other teachers have
    classes in the public school system while others hold classes at some of the universities
    in Northeastern Oklahoma. Seven Clans of the Fire holds three camps a year to
    teach the crafts, traditions and customs of our people to the youth and anyone
    else who wants to learn the real culture of the Cherokee people. The Turtle Island
    Liars Club in a loose association of traditional storytellers of the Keetoowah
    and Cherokee people. We hold storytelling nights every few months to pass on the
    stories of our people.\r\n\r\nSo... all in all, we are very active in passing
    our culture down to our children and grandchildren."
  created: '2008-08-25 09:34:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thank you for the education.\r\n\r\n> We don\u2019t use the word preserve
    when we refer to our\r\n> customs and traditions. We rather use perpetuate.\r\n\r\nNice.\r\n\r\n>
    we are very aware of losing our identity\r\n\r\nIt's the same with us Armenians
    (even though your genocide was even worse than ours) since more than 60% of our
    population lives outside Armenia. It's a struggle ingrained.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nAs
    I've stated in lectures and articles, a script can either serve to perpetuate
    a culture or it can serve to assimilate it, the latter if it slowly becomes transformed*
    to resemble the dominant mainstream culture. This has been happening to many alphabets
    (not least Armenian for one) and I call it Latinization. And just like perpetuating
    spoken language we need to worry about perpetuating written language.\r\n\r\n*
    Or sometimes if it's created to be like that; see Vietnamese, the Carmen Miranda
    of writing systems.\r\n\r\nIt seems to me that there's a case to be made for breaking
    with the Zapf-style Latinized Cherokee, and either reverting to the original form
    you mention (which I would be very interested to see, especially in a side-by-side
    comparison with the current form) or making something from scratch, or something
    in between.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-25 15:52:02'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I wish I could remember the site where I got these; they're from some website
    relating to the Cherokee language. It feels important to share them here. They're
    going to be too wide for the column here, but the individual letters are rather
    small.\r\n\r\nThe first is a sample of the Cherokee syllabary, showing the handwritten
    forms followed by an early draft of the more familiar typeset forms. They are
    written in pairs, divided by a vertical zigzag bar.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Syllabary_6023.JPG]\r\n\r\nIt
    is quite sad that the handwritten script is largely unknown today. It is quite
    beautiful. It would be nice to see it in a longer text as opposed to this letter-by-letter
    display.\r\n\r\nI also came across this scan of a Cherokee number system.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Numbers_5227.JPG]"
  created: '2008-08-25 21:06:09'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Damn, I really like that cursive form.  It's much prettier than the printed
    forms.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos
    cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-08-25 22:41:20'
- author:
    name: Ross Mills
  body: "re: American Indian / Native American language fonts\r\n\r\nI have a couple
    of pan-American typefaces in production at the moment which aim to support all
    North American (along with most European) languages: Huronia and Plantagenet Novus.
    I can not say when either will be publicly released, as development on these is
    slower then I should like, as they have no specific financial backing. A basic
    beta specimen for Huronia can be found by following the beta link on tiro.com/fonts.
    In developing these, I am also working on a character/glyph set specification
    which will be released in some form at the same time as the font(s).\r\n\r\nAs
    far as the Cherokee script is concerned, it is a bit too complicated to jam into
    a single post all the issues, but it is an interesting typographic challenge.
    There are many presumptions from within and without regarding reader's expectations.
    The 'original' cursive form would be interesting to approach as a design issue,
    but before engaging in that experiment I am unconvinced that it would work as
    a fully functional script. Not only are there probable issues in how it would
    work technically, there is also the issue of how easy it would be to learn. These
    perceived problems are no doubt behind the development of the second model, which
    more closely resembles European typefaces and the further development by Worcester
    for it\u2019s adaptation to metal type. There were obviously various technical
    and cultural motivations that existed in the mid-19th century which determined
    how Sequoyah's writing system developed and mutated and for the most part the
    design decisions were fairly sound at the time.\r\n\r\nPresent-day expectations
    and presumptions about what is, or is not authentic is quite another matter and
    has given rise to some odd results. My own preliminary attempts at designing Cherokee
    fonts has been informed by the original (metal) typefaces, and to some extent
    the earlier cursive model. I don't pretend that the first version (as comes with
    OSX) is exactly as I would like it, and I continue to develop it and other Cherokee
    fonts\u2014however what I, as a type designer see as a rational process and result
    may not always meet the expectations of the users of the language, as other interpretations
    that proliferate weren't produced using the same rationale. I am writing an article
    on this, but like so many things it is not complete yet so I don't want to post
    a link here yet. If anyone is interested, they can contact me directly: ross {at}
    tiro {dot} com\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-26 01:17:21'
- author:
    name: kholvn
  body: "The script shown in the pic is what Sequoyah came up with but was changed,
    as I mentioned, to accommodate creating typesets for a printing press. I, for
    one, have noticed trouble from modern students in learning the syllabary the way
    it is now. It takes extra effort for them to disregard their mind set in seeing
    some of the symbols as letters of the alphabet. They see D as 'dee' instead of
    'aw' and so on. I've always felt it would have been easier to learn the original
    than what was developed for the press.\r\n\r\nAlso, the numbers system wasn't
    adopted by the Cherokee Nation. They felt the roman numbers were good enough.
    Again, I wish we would use the numbering system.\r\n\r\nThe current writing system
    has been used over the years. I'm often asked to translate letters and note books
    written in the syllabary. Mostly it was used to write down arcane medicine used
    by our medicine people. But, of course, we have the New Testament and some of
    the Old written in the syllabary. Hymns are written down too. So the writing system
    is used to this day.\r\n\r\nOne last thing for now.\r\n\r\nWhat Sequoyah came
    up with still isn't the original writing system. There was a priest clan that
    was killed off that had a writing system. We have an old legend that mentions
    we had a writing system thousands of years ago."
  created: '2008-08-26 06:09:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> It takes extra effort for them to disregard their mind set\r\n> in seeing
    some of the symbols as letters of the alphabet.\r\n\r\nThis is exactly the problem
    even in major scripts like Cyrillic.\r\nCyrillic for example was <em>formally</em>
    Latinized three centuries\r\nago by Peter the Great; now, especially if a Cyrillic
    snippet is\r\ninterjected in English text (or vice versa), the reader will get\r\nthrown
    off. The attenuating factor there is that the Russians\r\nare not an endagered
    culture, so it's not a huge deal.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-26 15:49:52'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "A short piece from [[http://books.google.com/books?id=jsWoadT9tP8C&pg=PA57&lpg=PA57&dq=zapf+cherokee&source=web&ots=zxo9JTpf8B&sig=Z0vXJZXscYh8-IdMBWXw4e-EOLs&hl=en&sa=X&oi=book_result&resnum=4&ct=result#PPA58,M1|Hermann
    Zapf's Alphabet Stories]] regarding his development of a Cherokee syllabary font.\r\n\r\n\r\nAlso
    I have posted a comparison image of the Cherokee part of Agamemnon along side
    Plantagenet and the \"official\" font in the [[http://typophile.com/node/41105|Agamemnon
    Critique thread,]] if anyone wants to have a look at it."
  created: '2008-08-27 02:54:23'
- author:
    name: kholvn
  body: "Although I could read each example of the Cherokee Syllabary easily, I kind
    of liked the Agamemnon type a little bit better because of its unique designs
    of some of the symbols.\r\n\r\nIn the early ninties, I worked with a man who developed
    a font for use by the Mac and, as I mentioned in an earlier post, it was very
    easy to use. One could type in the sounds and it would come up in the syllabary.
    It was easy to use and quick but it kept some folks from learning to read and
    write it. It was too easy to use. A person didn't really need to know how to write
    in Cherokee to type it up on the computer.\r\n\r\nI used this font until a few
    months ago when the program just quit! I do miss it but am now searching for a
    font that I can use for my classes. Which is how I found this great site and board.
    (lucky me)"
  created: '2008-08-27 06:55:59'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: I posted an update to Agamemnon Cherokee a couple days ago. Does it show any
    improvement?
  created: '2008-09-09 01:01:51'
- author:
    name: Ross Mills
  body: "Jason:\r\n><em>It would be nice to see it in a longer text as opposed to
    this letter-by-letter display.</em>\r\n\r\nI was revisiting this thread and noticed
    I had overlooked this wish, realizing I could oblige.\r\n\r\nBelow is a snippit
    of text which shows the cursive version of the syllabary underneath the same text
    in \"regular\" syllabics (the upper being Huronia).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/huronia_cursive_3611.png]\r\n\r\n\r\nThis
    is pretty rough, and is just the first step in my analysis of the cursive form
    for adoption as either an \"italic\" or perhaps an italic stylistic variant which
    I am considering working into Huronia. In any case, what is shown is unrefined
    and quite close to Sequoyah's original, although I've adjusted the nominal baseline
    a little as well as inter-character fit (neither to any large extent). Needless
    to say, a typographic interpretation would smooth things out, but this gives a
    rough idea as to how hand-written manuscript might look using these forms of the
    syllables.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-28 22:48:07'
- author:
    name: buey okyan
  body: this is a typeface i designed for cherokee, inspired by the soviet constructivist
    style. as i am not very computer literate, i hand drew this entire set old school
    with a mayline, compass, and triangle. if anyone would like to make it into a
    fully functional computer font i would be indescribably happy. just throwing that
    out there. this is the first time i've seen discussion of indian typefaces on
    the internet outside of an indian forum so i'm interested in the response from
    the design world. [img:sites/default/files/old-images/tsalagi_by_bueyokyan_4030.jpg]
  created: '2009-08-25 22:31:46'
- author:
    name: Pablo R
    picture: 116225
  body: "Further South, but still native Americans Tzeltal and Tzotzil Mayan languages
    use Latin based systems as there was no actual written form until mid 20 century.\r\n\r\nA
    long time ago while helping with a educational project in the mountains of southern
    Mexico I did this as an experiment, maybe the interesting thing is the idea use
    of a modified ' to indicate inspired vocals very common in Tzeltal, and the use
    of a K instead of a Q which is not used in Tzeltal but usually appear in texts.\r\n\r\nThe
    dingbats are based in children drawings. It was very usual to have soldiers, helicopters
    and bombs drawn at art class.\r\n\r\nThe font was called Tzeltal Kop or True Word\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/koppetitb_4806.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/koppetita_6637.jpg]"
  created: '2009-08-25 23:24:13'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: In light of the discussion started in the [[http://typophile.com/node/83787|TypeCon
    New Orleans?]] thread, I thought it would be good to revive this thread and add
    some discussion of what would be involved in adding support for Cherokee to new
    and existing fonts as well as some discussion about how best to deal with additional
    styles. I would very much like to get a better understanding of all the design
    and language considerations involved in supporting Cherokee.
  created: '2011-07-15 10:07:04'
- author:
    name: matt_yow
    picture: 119424
  body: "cthulhufishing, thanks for bumping this thread. The TypeCon New Orleans thread
    really sparked my interest in Cherokee.\r\nI'd like to do more research and learn
    more on this.\r\n\r\nI see some really basic skeletal letterforms from what Ross
    Mills post (thanks!) but can anyone point me to sort of extremely basic and fundamental
    construction? I mean like a subtraction of style and character. All the samples
    and specimens I can find have a high contrast style, distinct style, kind of all
    looking very similar.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cherokee_6483.gif]"
  created: '2011-07-15 15:08:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: The Cherokee speakers at TypeCon mentioned that they had developed a kind
    of skeleton font to indicate the necessary elements of Cherokee syllabics. I didn't
    make a note of their contact information, but perhaps someone who did can direct
    their attention to this thread? It would be great to have them contribute to the
    discussion.
  created: '2011-07-15 19:19:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'll alert Joseph.\r\nBTW, another impressive thing is how they apparently
    carried\r\nout what was essentially field-testing to figure out which parts\r\nof
    the syllables were important, both in terms of reading and\r\nsatisfying their
    Elders.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-15 19:51:39'
- author:
    name: JosephErb
  body: "\u13A3\u13CF\u13F2 \u13C2\u13A6\u13D3, (hello everyone) Thanks for all the
    interest.... a lot being said in this line of discussion.  As Font makers you
    have noticed that much of what we use today, as a designed font, is pretty bad
    when it comes to some of the very rough looking uneven font designs.  It is a
    very complex issue when it comes to the Cherokee orthography in the community.
    Cherokees take great pride in our writing system.  It is true that many in the
    eastern band of Cherokees do not read and write cherokee but some do. And it is
    also true that at one time some people at the museum over there proposed the idea
    of changing our syllabary writing system in to a alphabet. This was quickly dismissed
    and did not go over very well and we should just leave it at that. Many more people
    here in Oklahoma Cherokee Nation and United Keetoowah Band read and write in Cherokee.
    \ Roy Boney and I were very honored to speak to so many font designers that work
    on so many languages.  Roy and I worked with many advanced speakers from our community
    and that work at CHerokee Nation to find out what advanced speakers look for in
    a writing system for each character.  We developed a very thin font that was made
    in fontlab. It is not really that professionally made but it has many needed things
    in it. Most languages around the world have font styles for many different needs,
    printed type, signs, web, fun, ads and so on as you all know. but we do not have
    this for our own language at this time, when we need it the most.  Many in the
    community do not question why we dont have more fonts. In fact many get defensive
    when we first talk about new fonts a few years ago thinking we where trying to
    change the language or proposing something like what the museum over and eastern
    band wanted.  Roy and I believe that if we are going to continue to have a language
    for our community it must have all the power and strength that different fonts
    can offer.. We started realizing we needed to be on the computers and cell phones
    then after we got on that we realized that we needed more fonts.  This idea is
    starting to be understood by some of our elders when we start to show them why
    we want to do this or have it done.  It is always important to work with the community
    that reads and writes the language that you are designing for.  Most languages
    have enough material out there so that that is not needed but in smaller language
    groups it is important to talk to people before starting your design work.   Much
    of the problems with the present fonts is that people did not at least have the
    community it was made for, have look at it, before the release.  The Cherokee
    Type face was made for a printing press and all of our fonts still look like they
    are for that same purpose.  Sequoyah in his time wrote with print from the style
    influenced from the printing press also, even after he made the cursive style
    too.  His main reason was to create a writing system that would allow his people
    to communicate in written form.  If he was round today, I believe he would be
    designing fonts and having others to design some for all these technologies that
    are constantly coming out (and have different requirements) for Cherokee people
    to use and communicate with each other.  So if anyone needs more information about
    cherokee handwriting for fonts feel free to email me.  We have collected handwriting
    samples and old documents that might help a font designer with the information
    they are looking for.  joseph-erb@cherokee.org  \r\n\u13E9\u13D9 \u13C2\u13A6\u13D3
    \r\n\u13D9\u13BE\u13D3\u13AA\u13B2\u13A2 \r\njoseph "
  created: '2011-07-16 01:29:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Joseph, is it possible for you to post a link to the 'very thin font' that
    you have made, or at least to a PDF of it, so that this can serve as a guide to
    type designers thinking about new styles? One of the things that is frequently
    a problem for designers encountering a new script is discerning which features
    are essential to the identity of a sign and which are particular to individual
    styles.\r\n\r\nWith regard to feedback from the community, I think my own approach
    -- if I ever find time to work on my ideas for a Cherokee type -- would be to
    make a set of representative glyphs covering, say, ten syllables, demonstrating
    the principal characteristics of the style, then seek feedback on these. I presume
    you would be able to facilitate this sort of review by members of the community
    (elders, of course, but also those who are most likely to use the new styles of
    type)."
  created: '2011-07-16 02:08:55'
- author:
    name: JosephErb
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FONT_5405.png]'
  created: '2011-07-16 03:10:28'
- author:
    name: JosephErb
  body: It still needs some work but you can see the bare bones of some things.  We
    looked at hand writing and tried to get a thinner more balanced look and roy did
    most of the tech work on this.  This is just a sample and not cleaned up but it
    might help some out there have another thing to reference. It is strange still
    for most elders to see a font that changed so much compared to the type face we
    have had for almost two hundred years.  but we are trying to make the language
    work better for the youth and the future.
  created: '2011-07-16 03:17:28'
- author:
    name: JosephErb
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/convert_4915.png]'
  created: '2011-07-16 03:36:20'
- author:
    name: JosephErb
  body: "here is another sample of a verb book that used a thin font... \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-16 03:42:16'
- author:
    name: JosephErb
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/verbbook_3419.png]'
  created: '2011-07-16 03:45:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Thanks. Joesph. One of the things I have wondered about is the number of
    zigzags on \u13E8 and \u13F3, and I see that you have fewer in your thing font
    than in the traditional type."
  created: '2011-07-16 19:53:22'
- author:
    name: JosephErb
  body: "IT changes in hand writing and from one font to another... \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fontfrom1888_6561.png]\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-17 04:07:21'
- author:
    name: JosephErb
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hand_5373.png]'
  created: '2011-07-17 14:43:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Wow, I never knew Jack Tramiel was Cherokee.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-17 15:17:23'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "You don't know Jack. :-)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/thumbnailCAOUTGI8_5645.jpg]"
  created: '2011-07-17 18:02:31'
- author:
    name: JosephErb
  body: "\u13DF\u13BE\u13B7\u13B7\u13BE\u13A0\u13EB\u13D2\u13AC    \u13E3\u13B3\u13A9
    \ jack. "
  created: '2011-07-18 05:04:33'
- author:
    name: JosephErb
  body: ":)          :\u13A0      \u13D1\u13A0       ;\u13E2    \u13D1\u13E2       cherokee
    emoticons\r\n\r\npeople started making them on facebook about six months ago...\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-18 05:08:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm just seeing Unicode boxes.  :-(\r\nBut I can imagine how cool they must
    be!\r\n\r\nBTW, here's an Armenian one! :\u0543\r\nAlthough since it's Armenian
    :\xAC\u0543 would be more anatomically correct!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-18 05:30:49'
- author:
    name: TylerEldredge
    picture: 122887
  body: "Hrant, that was <i>hilarious</i>! Haha!\r\n\r\nI'd be interested to see some
    samples of handwriting in Cherokee. I've thought about playing with a script font
    for Cherokee, but, in all honesty, I have no idea what the glyphs would look like.\r\n\r\nAnd
    aside from Cherokee, what about expanding fonts to include the diacritics regularly
    used in Lakota? Letters like \u014B or \u021F have very poor support, I've seen
    books restricted to using TNR because it was the only font that had enough character
    support. No one should be forced to use TNR, heavens."
  created: '2011-07-18 07:51:23'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: Looking for fonts covering Cherokee (since I was seeing Unicode boxes here),
    I found these [[http://www.languagegeek.com/font/fontdownload.html#Full_Unicode|Free]]
    [[http://www.languagegeek.com/font/fontdownload.html#Cherokee|fonts]] (GPL v3)
    and the [[http://www.languagegeek.com/font/abfont/absans.html|sans font]] is particularly
    interesting...
  created: '2011-07-18 10:44:35'
- author:
    name: JosephErb
  body: "here i a Cherokee font to fix those boxes \r\n\r\nhttp://www.languagegeek.com/font/fontdownload.html#Cherokee\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/handwritting1_3469.jpg]"
  created: '2011-07-19 00:55:00'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Tyler, I've set Lakota, both using the Ella Doria orthography and the Buchtel
    orthography. In the days of the Linotron 202 -- before 1992 or so -- you really
    were limited to Times. Of course, that was a better Times.\r\n\r\nNow, with Adobe
    fonts anyway, anyone can pretty easily modify a font to include all the Lakota
    characters. I've done this for a couple, including Minion. The problem is you
    cannot *distribute* those fonts -- but you can certainly make them up for your
    own use."
  created: '2011-07-21 02:08:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, for Adobe fonts for one you <em>can</em> distribute them to\r\npeople
    who [tell you that they] own a license to the original.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-21 02:22:20'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Hrant:\r\n\r\nReally? from the Adobe FAQ site, http://www.adobe.com/aboutadobe/antipiracy/ff_faq.html\r\n\r\n<cite>For
    example, you can use Macromedia Fontographer or Pyrus FontLab to customize an
    Adobe Font for individual usage, but you are not permitted to distribute, sell,
    or give away, the derivative work, and the derivative work counts as one of the
    permitted number of uses.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nand\r\n\r\n<cite>A consultant may solicit
    their services to companies who have legitimately licensed copies of Adobe font
    software. The work product of the consultant must remain with the company. The
    consultant cannot (i) take or keep a copy of the company\u2019s original, localized,
    or customized version of the font software, or (ii) distribute any original, localized
    or customized versions of the font software.</cite>"
  created: '2011-07-21 02:32:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Basically parties that own licenses of a given Adobe font can give each other
    mods.\r\n\r\nWhen I did a mod to Garamond Premier Pro (I was commissioned to add
    10 new\r\ncompound letters, each in UC and lc, for setting transliterated Sanskrit)
    the client\r\nowned a license, and I had a license thanks to owning InDesign*
    so it was fine.\r\n\r\n* Which I won in a contest to find a\r\nname for Thomas
    Phinney's Adobe blog.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-21 02:39:44'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: What can I say but repeat that isn't what the FAQ seems to say, or what I
    understood Christopher Slye to say in an email exchange earlier this year. I could
    be wrong. It would be nice if somebody from Adobe would step in and clarify this.
    The EULAs-as-amended-by FAQs are a mess. And as Tyler's post shows, it matters.
  created: '2011-07-21 02:51:59'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>Well, for Adobe fonts for one you can distribute them to people who
    [tell you that they] own a license to the original.</cite>\r\n\r\nNope. This part
    of the FAQ is fairly straightforward:\r\n\r\n<cite>... you can use the converted
    software for your own customary and internal business use, but you may not redistribute,
    resell, or transfer this converted or modified font software to anyone beyond
    the scope of your license for the original font software.</cite>\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-21 04:43:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hmmm, well OK, sorry.\r\nThe thing is I do remember getting a sort of quasi-official
    \"go ahead\"\r\nbefore doing the Garamond Premier Pro job. I'm pretty sure of
    that since\r\nI didn't actually try to decrypt the EULA - I relied on that \"go
    ahead\".\r\n\r\nNow, about that \"internal\":\r\nWould it be OK if I were an employee
    of the client?\r\nWhat's the difference between an employee and a consultant?\r\nThis
    is all quite gray isn't it?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-21 05:37:31'
- author:
    name: DavidL
  body: "I think I recall the case Hrant mentions, and I'm probably the person who
    gave him the go-ahead. But I see the context got a bit scrambled.\r\n\r\nIt's
    fine for the party who's licensed the font to commission someone else to make
    the modifications. That person should have a legitimate copy of the font as well.
    And that's the situation Hrant was in. But those modifications should be restricted
    to the original licensee, not distributed to others.\r\n\r\nIs that a bit clearer?\r\n-
    thanks,\r\n  David L"
  created: '2011-07-21 05:55:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thanks David - I feel better now!\r\n\r\nThere's still a patch of medium
    gray that we might hopefully\r\nmove closer to white or black: what's the difference
    between\r\nthe party who requested the modification versus any other\r\nparty
    who has a legit copy of that same font?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-21 06:37:23'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>It's fine for the party who's licensed the font to commission someone
    else to make the modifications. That person should have a legitimate copy of the
    font as well.</cite> (Why? it is expertise that's being solicited, not a license.)
    <cite>And that's the situation Hrant was in. But those modifications should be
    restricted to the original licensee, not distributed to others.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>Is
    that a bit clearer?</cite>\r\n\r\nNot really. Let's take a situation that is very,
    very close to factual. There are about 100 AAUP presses. I'd guess that at least
    50 of them use InDesign, and have more or less stayed current with the various
    releases. Therefore, in spite of the human tendency to improve the facts, I can
    be pretty certain all those presses have at least one licensed copy of Minion.
    Moreover, many of them know we've \"modified\" Minion's character complement over
    the years, in order to set to set transliterated Arabic, Indic Scripts, Navaho,
    Lakota, etc.\r\n\r\nThey have licenses, we have a license. In response to requests
    for our fonts, I've always said, \"I'm sorry, the Adobe license prohibits it.\"\r\n\r\nThis
    on the basis of anther part of the FAQ:\r\n\r\n<cite>A consultant may solicit
    their services to companies who have legitimately licensed copies of Adobe font
    software. The work product of the consultant must remain with the company. The
    consultant cannot (i) take or keep a copy of the company\u2019s original, localized,
    or customized version of the font software, or (ii) distribute any original, localized
    or customized versions of the font software.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt gets down to what
    \"distribute\" means. I could furnish the those 50 AAUP presses with the modified
    Minion if I physically go to their place of business, take nothing with me (strip
    searched at the door? MRI to make sure I hadn't swallowed a flash drive?), do
    the work, then take nothing with me as I leave (more searches & radiation from
    another MRI?) But to send them a copy as an email attachment is prohibited.\r\n\r\nThat
    about right?\r\n\r\nDoes it make sense to your lawyers?"
  created: '2011-07-21 15:06:51'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "Charles, I think you're looking at it the wrong way. Think of it this way:\r\n\r\nAdobe
    allows one to modify their Adobe-licensed font, but not distribute it. The modified
    font is for private use. Adobe, however, recognizes that this private use is often
    what we call \"internal business use.\" Furthermore, any individual person or
    business might need to hire an expert to do these modifications, but that is work
    for hire.\r\n\r\nThe problem with the scenario you describe above is that you
    essentially have the font and are distributing it. Place A needs the font, so
    you go give it to them; Place B needs the font, so you go give it to them. Places
    A and B might have their own licenses, but the modified font needs to originate
    and stay with a single person or business. It can't originate with you and then
    be distributed to multiple people or businesses.\r\n\r\nHere's the bottom line.
    Most foundries do not allow font modifications, but Adobe has tried to distinguish
    itself by allowing it, <em>with restrictions.</em> We don't want modified fonts
    to be distributed or become new \"products\" so we've chosen to draw the line
    here.\r\n\r\n(Disclaimers: I Am Not A Lawyer. Your own font EULA is the sole determinant
    of what is and isn't allowed.)"
  created: '2011-07-21 16:48:19'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Thanks Christopher,\r\n\r\nIt seems to me I'm looking at it exactly the right
    way. The font software cannot be distributed, but the work (through a hired consultant)
    can be be distributed -- done at any location on a properly licensed font. So,
    taking no software, I could flit about the country, modifying Minion for people.
    Hopefully the strip searches would not be needed -- I'm an old man, it would be
    ugly.\r\n\r\nSuppose we take the airplane out of it. I, as a hired consultant,
    from my console, can log onto the client's computer and open up their copy of
    Minion in my font editing program. I make the needed modifications, then save
    the files only on their hard drive.\r\n\r\nBut I cannot (and BTW, I have not)
    been sending people a copy. Forgive me, but does no one else find this ludicrous?
    \  "
  created: '2011-07-21 17:59:52'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "@Charles:\r\nWhich answers a very recently asked question:\r\n<blockquote>\r\n\"...
    an open source typeface can be redistributed and modified.\"\r\n\r\nand what is
    the value of that?\r\n</blockquote>\r\n\r\n:)"
  created: '2011-07-21 18:34:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I've said this before: bravo Adobe.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-21 18:39:00'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Khaled,\r\n\r\nYes. \r\n\r\nBTW, several other foundries allow modification,
    you just have to receive permission first. But all of them like Adobe, prohibit
    distributing the modified fonts.\r\n\r\nAnd while I laud Adobe's policy on letting
    people modify fonts for their own use, between the peculiarities of *publishing*
    font software, and the differences between digital and print editions facing book
    publishers, open source fonts are becoming more and more attractive to me. Not
    to \"me\" as a typesetter -- we get a competitive advantage from having fonts
    other people don't/can't have -- but as I think about the industry I'm in, and
    its future.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-21 18:59:48'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I think one key point of the discussion about modifying Adobe fonts hinges
    on the meaning of the word \"distribute.\" In this case it's a legal sense of
    the word, and might be subject to debate.\r\n\r\nOne might argue that overall
    it would be in Adobe's interest to allow the kind of distribution that Charles
    is doing. But then again, if Adobe were to add such characters themselves in the
    future, they might not like such pre-modified versions being too widespread.  :/\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2011-07-23 19:15:20'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Hi Thomas -- I'd say yes, and no. To take a somewhat longer view, I think
    we an assume Unicode will be around for a while. Longer than OpenType, and certainly
    longer than InDesign. Those of us with thining, graying hair remember the rush
    to archive jobs in Quark -- this after the rush to archive jobs in \"Compugraphic.\"
    Etc.\r\n\r\nNow, making up the characters is usually trivial. Most are a Latin
    character plus one or more combining diacriticals. (Of course, it would help if
    Adobe & other font publishers would include the Unicode combining diacriticals
    in their font, but as the barman in <cite>Irma La Duce</cite> said, \"That's another
    story.\") \r\n\r\nThe problem is how perfectly correct Unicode can occur in a
    manuscript. A character can be formed in any number of ways. We have a few manuscripts
    come in where even \"aacute\" is formed (typed) by the string \"a\" plus the \"acute
    combining\" diacritical. We get around such issues by having a \"manuscript cleanup
    stage,\" and our rule is that all constructions that have a Unicode number assigned
    are converted to that, and all that don't are broken down into their components.
    We don't allow, for example, eacute with a macron below, we ensure the string
    is e, plus macron below, plus acute. (& remember that while the ordering of accents
    within a plane is specified by Unicode, the order of the planes is not. Yet one
    more issue). For such with no single Unicode point, I make them up & write (usually,
    add to) a ccmp feature.\r\n\r\nNow think of the problem a font publisher faces.
    They usually feel they can't make such assumptions, and have to support any of
    the several ways such characters can occur. Anybody unconvinced take a look at
    SIL's ccmp & mark/mkmk features for a font like Charis. It is no wonder that this
    kind of support is lacking.\r\n\r\nIt is part of a larger issue, font publishers
    don't view book publishers as a significant market, so they don't address the
    workflows book publishers need. Take a look, for example, at Biblovault or codeMantra.
    People who archive books, and make other products from the \"print\" book file,
    for the original publisher. Even a site license for fonts -- expensive -- makes
    the use of such companies technically illegal. Best I can tell, you can't get
    a site license that covers multiple businesses. Not from Adobe, anyway.\r\n\r\nSo
    we're left with \"don't ask, don't tell,\" except there is no way to make the
    products without telling. I guess it is \"don't ask,\" and since we have to tell,
    don't even look."
  created: '2011-07-24 15:45:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "It seems to me that there is a real difference between\r\n\r\na) modifying
    an Adobe font and advertising the fact that you have done so and offering to make
    the modified font available -- whether for free or for a price -- to other licensees
    of the original Adobe font;\r\n\r\nand\r\n\r\nb) modifying an Adobe font for your
    own purposes or the purposes of a client and also providing that font to other
    clients who seek the same modifications.\r\n\r\nThat is, there seems to be a difference
    between being in the business of distributing modified fonts and being in the
    business of providing modified fonts to people who commission them. One way in
    which I always seek to conform with Adobe's license terms in this respect is to
    personalise the modified fonts for the individual client, even if the same set
    of modifications to character set, etc. apply (although, off hand, I'm having
    trouble thinking of a situation in which more than one client wanted exactly the
    same set of modifications)."
  created: '2011-07-24 23:05:40'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>(although, off hand, I'm having trouble thinking of a situation in
    which more than one client wanted exactly the same set of modifications).</cite>\r\n\r\nWhich
    takes us back to the topic and fonts that support Native American languages. I've
    had a number of clients who want the same thing, as long as they're setting Navajo,
    or Lakota, or Kiowa, etc."
  created: '2011-07-26 19:35:48'
- author:
    name: JosephErb
  body: "https://sites.google.com/site/cherokeefont/home \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-27 18:47:05'
- author:
    name: JosephErb
  body: "here are some cherokee fonts that i just made.. \r\n\r\nhttps://docs.google.com/viewer?a=v&pid=explorer&chrome=true&srcid=0B1PjCk-aSKbQOWFhNmFjNTgtOWQ1Mi00MjlmLTkxYTItYjM0NTE5YjIzZTdh&hl=en_US\r\n\r\nhttps://docs.google.com/viewer?a=v&pid=explorer&chrome=true&srcid=0B1PjCk-aSKbQNzJmZWJkOGQtNzcxZS00ZGUzLWIwN2ItMDQ3MDcyOTgwODgx&hl=en_US\r\n\r\n\r\nhttp://speakcherokee2me.blogspot.com/2011/12/many-ways-to-say.html\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-14 16:27:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Joseph, nice!\r\nThe Old English is pretty gutsy, in more ways than one.
    \ :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-14 16:43:53'
- author:
    name: chungdehtien
    picture: 115552
  body: can someone please tell me the origin of Plantagenet Cherokee. who created
    it and why a few of the  syllables differ from the original  Sequoyah design.
    syllable like "quo" "wi" "do". Thank you- chung deh tien
  created: '2012-12-19 19:07:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Because Sequoyah's design needs a lot of work?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-19 19:10:28'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "After encountering this thread, I saw the following news item:\r\n\r\n[[http://www.theregister.co.uk/2012/12/19/cherokee_version_windows/]]"
  created: '2012-12-20 06:52:16'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Also... http://blogs.msdn.com/b/michkap/archive/2012/12/19/10379263.aspx
    \r\n\r\n:-)\r\n\r\n>can someone please tell me\r\n\r\nApparently a decade or so
    after the metal type was introduced the design of a few of the characters changed.
    Plantagenet originally contained the original forms, but was later revised to
    reflect the revised character shapes. I believe the windows 8 version of Plantagenet
    contains the older forms as stylistic alternates. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2012-12-21 14:09:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Joseph Erb in the news!\r\nhttp://www.mail.com/news/us/2024960-to-save-endangered-languages-tribes-turn-to-tech.html#.7518-stage-subhero1-3\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-17 19:40:34'
date: '2008-07-11 16:47:08'
title: American Indian / Native American language fonts

---
