---
author:
  name: seanglenn
  picture: 110401
body: 'Okay, so along with the redesign for the magazines I work on, I&#39;m going
  to rebuild our typefaces &#40;Scala Sans and Scala&#41; as OpenType fonts, to access
  all the small caps, etc. since we&#39;re switching to InDesign. <BR> <BR>I have
  no idea where to start.. I have been looking through the documentation in FontLab...
  it&#39;s abyssmal to say the least. I&#39;ve opened a couple OpenType fonts, only
  to find a near indecipherable list of code terms for OpenType. <BR> <BR>I had to
  rebuild this font earlier in the year to unite all the family styles &#40;the original
  Scala and Scala Sans were all pulled apart so that you don&#39;t jump to bold by
  clicking bold. Because most of the magazine text is written in Word prior to being
  laid out, it&#39;s imperative that the family function works correctly.&#41; So
  I&#39;ve got all my metrics, bitmaps, outlines already saved in FontLab, and united
  as families, but I don&#39;t know where to go from there. <BR> <BR>This is the list
  of functions I want to include: <BR> <BR>Standard ligatures &#40;ff, fi, fl, ffl,
  ffi&#41; <BR> <BR>Lining numerals <BR> <BR>Non-lining numerals <BR> <BR>Small Caps
  <BR> <BR>Multiplication Symbol &#40;this is used constantly in my texts, and needs
  to be present... can I define a discretionary alternate that says &#34;if number
  x number&#34; then &#34;number [multiply] number&#34;? There&#39;s probably about
  five or six discretionary rules I&#39;d need to incorporate. <BR> <BR>There&#39;s
  also a set of expert symbols that I&#39;d like to incorporate as alternate/additional
  characters. <BR> <BR>The range of weights will be regular, regular italic, bold,
  bold italic, black, black italic. Scala doesn&#39;t have a black italic caps, so
  I&#39;ll have to leave that out. <BR> <BR>Basically, I need some guidance. I&#39;ve
  not done a lot of coding, and this seems pretty crazy, but if the House Industries
  guys can learn to do it, so can I!'
comments:
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: 'Urm. I&#39;d love to advise, but FontShop&#39;s end user license doesn&#39;t
    permit you to modify their fonts. It reads: <BR> <BR>&#34;You agree not to modify,
    adapt, translate, reverse engineer, decompile, disassemble, alter, or otherwise
    attempt to discover the source code of the Software.&#34; <BR> <BR>So you should
    contact FontShop and let them know you want OpenType versions of the fonts. <BR>
    <BR>That aside, it would not be at all difficult to add a handful of OpenType
    features like those you&#39;re contemplating. You could indeed do a contextual
    alternate that substituted a multiplication symbol for an x in the manner you
    describe. <BR> <BR>Regards, <BR> <BR>T <BR>'
  created: '2004-05-14 03:05:55'
- author:
    name: seanglenn
    picture: 110401
  body: EULA aside, FontLab&#39;s documentation really leaves me in the dark. Where
    would one find this sort of documentation for adding OpenType features? <BR> <BR>I&#39;ll
    contact FontShop and see about an OpenType version of Scala and Scala Sans.
  created: '2004-05-14 03:13:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; &#34;You agree not to modify, adapt, translate, reverse engineer, decompile,
    <BR>&#62; disassemble, alter, or otherwise attempt to discover the source code
    of <BR>&#62; the Software.&#34; <BR> <BR>Hmmm, I&#39;m smelling a legal loophole:
    look at that &#34;otherwise&#34; and tell me if you think that everything before
    if would be forgiven in court if it were not to &#34;discover the source code&#34;...
    <BR> <BR>Anyway, loophole or no, I would advise Sean to &#34;just do it&#34; in
    such cases &#40;as long as he: owns the original; and keeps the derivatives to
    himself&#41;. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-05-14 03:17:02'
- author:
    name: seanglenn
    picture: 110401
  body: '&#60;font class=&#34;dontLookLikeCrap&#34;&#62;I find this in a FontFont/FontShop
    EULA on Veer&#39;s site &#40;unfortunately we didn&#39;t get a hardcopy of the
    EULA specifically for our purchase, it&#39;s only available, as text and not as
    a download, as part of the purchase online process, there&#39;s no link to it
    on FontShop&#39;s site that I can find&#41;. <BR> <BR>&#34;You do have the right
    to modify and alter Font Software for your customary personal and business use,
    but not for resale or further distribution.&#34; <BR> <BR><a href="http://www.veer.com/help/license.aspx?eula=DET"
    target="_blank">http://www.veer.com/help/license.aspx?eula=DET</a>&#60;/font&#62;'
  created: '2004-05-14 03:35:30'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: 'Hrant, <BR> <BR>First, the clause after the &#34;or&#34; clearly does not
    modify the first part of the sentence. But we can leave that to lawyers to debate,
    since neither of us is one. <BR> <BR>Second, there are laws about inducing somebody
    to break a contract. &#34;Tortious interference&#34; IIRC from my business law
    class. Technically, you can be sued for this. I don&#39;t know that it applies
    when you merely advise somebody without giving them any incentives though. &#40;note:
    revised this comment after thinking about if a few minutes.&#41; <BR> <BR>Third,
    unless Sean commissioned FontShop to build Scala just for him &#40;work for hire&#41;,
    he does NOT &#34;own the original&#34;; he owns a license to use it. <BR> <BR>As
    for OT features in FontLab, I will post some comments later. <BR> <BR>T'
  created: '2004-05-14 03:38:42'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: 'Sean: <BR> <BR>That&#39;s the EULA for Device Type; Veer doesn&#39;t sell
    FontShop fonts as far as I can tell. <BR> <BR>Cheers, <BR> <BR>T'
  created: '2004-05-14 03:46:31'
- author:
    name: seanglenn
    picture: 110401
  body: Yes, I realized that, but it does reference FontShop as well, didn&#39;t know
    if it was the same as the FontFont EULA.
  created: '2004-05-14 03:53:25'
- author:
    name: seanglenn
    picture: 110401
  body: 'Interesting, I grabbed one of the free fonts from FontFont&#39;s website,
    and this is what it says in the license included therein: <BR> <BR>3. You agree
    that the Software, and all copies thereof, are owned by FSI and/or its suppliers,
    and its structure, organisation and code are the valuable trade secrets of FSI
    and/or its suppliers. You acknowledge that the Software is protected by the United
    States Copyright Law, by the copyright and design laws of other nations, and by
    international treaties. You agree to treat the Software as you would any other
    copyrighted material, such as a book. You may not copy the Software or Documentation,
    except as expressly provided herein. Any copies that you are permitted to make
    pursuant to this Agreement must contain the same copyright, trademark, and other
    proprietary notices that appear on or in the Software. You agree not to modify,
    adapt, translate, reverse engineer, decompile, disassemble, alter, or otherwise
    attempt to discover the source code of the Software. You agree to use trademarks
    associated with the Software according to accepted trademark practice, including
    identification of the trademark owner&#39;s name. Trademarks can only be used
    to identify printed output produced by the Software. The use of any trademark
    as herein authorized does not give you any rights of ownership in that trademark
    and all use of any trademark shall inure to the sole benefit of the trademark
    owner. Except as expressly provided herein, this Agreement does not grant you
    any right to intellectual property rights in the Software and its associated trademarks.
    <b>You do have the right to modify and alter Font Software for your customary
    personal and business use, but not for resale or further distribution.</b> <BR>
    <BR><i>emphasis mine</i>'
  created: '2004-05-14 03:55:58'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Huh? i can&#39;t find any reference to FontShop or FontFont in the Device
    EULA. Oh well.... <BR> <BR>Interesting, but not shocking, that the free font EULA
    is different. I got the blurb I quoted by going partway through the purchase process
    on Scala Sans. Not that I was trying to catch you out or anything, just curious
    as to FontShop&#39;s policies on the matter. Always interesting to see what the
    competition is up to in their EULAs. <BR> <BR>Regards, <BR> <BR>T
  created: '2004-05-14 04:00:18'
- author:
    name: seanglenn
    picture: 110401
  body: 'It still contains the same line about altering the fonts for personal and
    business use: <BR> <BR><a href="http://www.fontfont.com/cgi-bin/license.pl?f=1"
    target="_blank">http://www.fontfont.com/cgi-bin/license.pl?f=1</a> <BR> <BR>Look
    at section three. It&#39;s the same. <BR> <BR>&#40;Thanks for the hint on finding
    the EULA!&#41;'
  created: '2004-05-14 04:05:44'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: 'I&#39;ve purchased a number of fonts form FontShop, and I&#39;ve never been
    able to _find_ the EULA.  <BR> <BR>I&#39;m in Canada, so the EULA may be different,
    and since I wasn&#39;t made aware of it, its application seem...moot. <BR> <BR>I
    have relied instead on a little booklet called &#34;FontShop&#39;s Guide to Legal
    Typeface Use&#34; put out by FontShop Canada some time ago. It states that: &#34;most
    font manufactures will allow you the right to produce a modified [font]... subject
    to the same licensing requirements as the original font.&#34; <BR> <BR>Now, I
    haven&#39;t relied on this booklet for other foundries, but the booklet goes on
    to discuss a hypothetical swash version of a FS font, so it certainly strongly
    implies that modifications are permitted, at least in Canada.'
  created: '2004-05-14 04:29:03'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: 'Anyhow, back to the main question: <BR> <BR>Open the &#34;OpenType&#34; panel
    in FontLab. The left side lists the OT features, the right side lists the code
    for the currently selected feature. <BR> <BR>Click on the &#34;&#43;&#34; sign
    at the bottom left of the OT panel. This adds a feature. The feature will initially
    be called &#34;xxxx&#34;. <BR> <BR>In the right pane of the panel, you&#39;ll
    see the initial template of the feature code appear. Change the two occurrences
    of &#34;xxxx&#34; in the right pane &#34; to the feature you want. Let&#39;s say
    lowercase to small caps &#40;&#39;smcp&#39;&#41;. <BR> <BR>The remaining line
    to change and expand on is this one: <BR> <BR>&#62;  sub by ; <BR> <BR>You need
    to fill that out and duplicate it. Remember you&#39;re using glyph names to refer
    to the glyphs, so you&#39;ll need to use the same glyph names you&#39;re actually
    using in your font. A completed smcp feature might look like this: <BR> <BR>feature
    smcp { <BR>sub a by a.smcp ; <BR>sub b by b.smcp ; <BR>sub c by c.smcp ; <BR>sub
    d by d.smcp ; <BR>sub e by e.smcp ; <BR>sub f by f.smcp ; <BR>sub g by g.smcp
    ; <BR>sub h by h.smcp ; <BR>sub i by i.smcp ; <BR>sub j by j.smcp ; <BR>sub k
    by k.smcp ; <BR>sub l by l.smcp ; <BR>sub m by m.smcp ; <BR>sub n by n.smcp ;
    <BR>sub o by o.smcp ; <BR>sub p by p.smcp ; <BR>sub q by q.smcp ; <BR>sub r by
    r.smcp ; <BR>sub s by s.smcp ; <BR>sub t by t.smcp ; <BR>sub u by u.smcp ; <BR>sub
    v by v.smcp ; <BR>sub w by w.smcp ; <BR>sub x by x.smcp ; <BR>sub y by y.smcp
    ; <BR>sub z by z.smcp ; <BR>sub b.sans by b.smcp ; <BR>sub d.sans by d.smcp ;
    <BR>sub h.sans by h.smcp ; <BR>sub i.sans by i.smcp ; <BR>sub j.sans by j.smcp
    ; <BR>sub k.sans by k.smcp ; <BR>sub l.sans by l.smcp ; <BR>sub m.sans by m.smcp
    ; <BR>sub n.sans by n.smcp ; <BR>sub p.sans by p.smcp ; <BR>sub r.sans by r.smcp
    ; <BR>sub u.sans by u.smcp ; <BR>} smcp; <BR> <BR>A completed liga feature might
    be something like this: <BR> <BR>feature liga { # ligatures on by detault <BR>  sub
    f f i by ffi ; <BR>  sub f f l by ffl ; <BR>  sub f f by ff ; <BR>  sub f i by
    fi ; <BR>  sub f l by fl ; <BR>  sub f j by f_j ; <BR>  sub t f by t_f ; <BR>  sub
    f t by f_t ; <BR>  sub T h by T_h ; <BR>  sub T h.sans by T_h ; <BR>  sub Tcommaaccent
    h by Tcommaaccent_h ; <BR>  sub Tcommaaccent h.sans by Tcommaaccent_h ; <BR>  sub
    Tcaron h by Tcaron_h ; <BR>  sub Tcaron h.sans by Tcaron_h ; <BR>  sub t t by
    t_t ; <BR>} liga; <BR> <BR>Please note that ffi and ffl should precede the two-letter
    ligatures. Otherwise the two letter ones will get processed, and you&#39;d need
    to make them input into the three-letter ones. Simpler just to order them differently.
    <BR> <BR>You&#39;ll also be noting that initial white space in a line doesn&#39;t
    matter, that anything after a # sign is ignored as just a comment, and that every
    line after the first MUST end in a semicolon. Failure to include a semicolon is
    the most common reason for a feature to fail to compile. Referring to a glyph
    name that doesn&#39;t exist &#40;or got changed&#41; is the next most common reason.
    <BR> <BR>So hit the compile button regularly to check that you haven&#39;t messed
    anything up. It&#39;s the little stack of sheets with the down arrow on it. <BR>
    <BR>The numbers work pretty much the same as the other stuff. The one remaining
    feature that is complicated is your multiplication substitution. <BR> <BR>This
    code ought to work, though I haven&#39;t tested it. Luckily you don&#39;t have
    more than one glyph of backwards context, so you won&#39;t be affected by the
    clarification/change in the definition of how that&#39;s processed: <BR> <BR>feature
    calt { # contextual alternates <BR>    sub [zero one two three four five six seven
    eight nine] x&#39; [zero one two three four five six seven eight nine] by multiply
    <BR>} calt; <BR> <BR>Now, you could clean up that code by defining a class for
    the digits. Also, you might need to extend it to cover the other number forms
    &#40;oldstyle and any others you have&#41;. <BR> <BR>Cheers, <BR> <BR>T'
  created: '2004-05-14 04:30:17'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: I do suggest that you only cover the lowercase x in the contextual substitution
    for the multiplication sign. There are times when one actually wants to mix numbers
    and letters, but usually those are uppercase letters. <BR> <BR>Regards, <BR> <BR>T
  created: '2004-05-14 04:33:25'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: 'John&#39;s right. I didn&#39;t read the entire EULA -- entirely my fault.
    &#40;Repro&#39;d below for the curious.&#41; First it says you can&#39;t modify
    the fonts, then it says you can. Go figure. <BR> <BR> <BR>FSI End-User License
    Agreement  <BR> <BR>Notice to the User: <BR> <BR>This is a contract. By downloading
    this font software, you accept all the terms and conditions set forth below. <BR>
    <BR>This package contains software &#40;&#34;Software&#34;&#41; and related documentation
    &#40;&#34;Documentation&#34;&#41;. As used herein, &#34;Licensed Unit&#34; means
    up to five &#40;5&#41; computers at a single geographic location. As used herein,
    &#34;Font Software&#34; means coded and encrypted Software that generates typeface
    designs when used with the appropriate hardware and software. <BR> <BR>FSI grants
    you a non-exclusive license to use the Software and Documentation, provided that
    you agree to the following: <BR> <BR>Use of the Font Software <BR>1. You may install
    and use Font Software in a Licensed Unit for the purpose of reproducing typeface
    designs. If the number of computers with which you want to use Font Software exceeds
    those set forth in the definition of Licensed Unit above, then you must notify
    FSI or your FontFont distributor and request an appropriate site license covering
    all units in which Font Software will be used or stored and for which an additonal
    fee will be charged. You may make one back-up copy of Font Software for archival
    purposes only, and you shall retain exclusive custody and control over such copy.
    The license granted herein is effective until terminated. FSI has the right to
    terminate your license immediately if you fail to comply with any term of this
    Agreement. Upon termination, you must destroy the original and any copies of the
    Software and Documentation. <BR> <BR>2. You may take a digitized copy of the Font
    Software used for a particular document to a commercial printer or service bureau
    for use by the printer or service bureau in printing such document but only if
    the printer or service bureau represents to you that it has purchased or been
    granted a license to use that particular Font Software. You may include the Font
    Software in a document for the sole purpose of printing or viewing such document,
    but you may not distribute the document with the Font Software included to third
    parties, e.g. on Internet, CD-ROM. If you intend to use the Font Software in such
    cases you must request and receive from FSI or your local distributor a special
    License Agreement for which an additional fee will be charged. <BR> <BR>3. You
    agree that the Software, and all copies thereof, are owned by FSI and/or its suppliers,
    and its structure, organisation and code are the valuable trade secrets of FSI
    and/or its suppliers. You acknowledge that the Software is protected by the United
    States Copyright Law, by the copyright and design laws of other nations, and by
    international treaties. You agree to treat the Software as you would any other
    copyrighted material, such as a book. You may not copy the Software or Documentation,
    except as expressly provided herein. Any copies that you are permitted to make
    pursuant to this Agreement must contain the same copyright, trademark, and other
    proprietary notices that appear on or in the Software. You agree not to modify,
    adapt, translate, reverse engineer, decompile, disassemble, alter, or otherwise
    attempt to discover the source code of the Software. You agree to use trademarks
    associated with the Software according to accepted trademark practice, including
    identification of the trademark owner&#39;s name. Trademarks can only be used
    to identify printed output produced by the Software. The use of any trademark
    as herein authorized does not give you any rights of ownership in that trademark
    and all use of any trademark shall inure to the sole benefit of the trademark
    owner. Except as expressly provided herein, this Agreement does not grant you
    any right to intellectual property rights in the Software and its associated trademarks.
    You do have the right to modify and alter Font Software for your customary personal
    and business use, but not for resale or further distribution. <BR> <BR>4. You
    may not rent, lease, sublicense, give, lend, or further distribute the Software
    or Documentation, or any copy thereof, except as expressly provided herein. You
    may transfer all your rights to use the Software and Documentation to another
    person or legal entity provided that &#40;i&#41; the transferee accepts and agrees
    to be bound by all the terms and conditions of this Agreement, and &#40;ii&#41;
    you destroy all copies of the Software and Documentation, including all copies
    stored in the memory of a hardware device. Without limiting the generality of
    the foregoing, you agree that you will not distribute or disseminate all or any
    part of the Software through any on-line service and you further agree that any
    such intentional distribution shall constitute a theft by you of a valuable property
    of FSI and/or its suppliers. <BR> <BR>5. FSI warrants to you that the Software
    will perform substantially in accordance with the Documentation for the ninety
    &#40;90&#41; day period following your receipt of the Software. To make a warranty
    claim, you must return the Software to the location from which you obtained it
    along with a copy of your sales receipt within such ninety &#40;90&#41; day period.
    If the Software does not perform substantially in accordance with the Documention,
    the entire and exclusive liability and remedy shall be limited to either, at FSI&#39;s
    option, the replacement of the Software or the refund of the license fee you paid
    for the Software. FSI and its suppliers do not and cannot warrant the performance
    or results you may obtain by using the software or documentation. The foregoing
    states the sole and exclusive remedies for FSI&#39;s or its suppliers breach of
    warranty. Except for the foregoing limited warranty, FSI and its suppliers make
    no warranties express or implied, as to non-infringement of third party rights,
    merchantability, or fitness for any particular purpose. In no event will FSI or
    its suppliers be liable to you for any consequential, incidental or special damages,
    including any lost profits or lost savings, even if a FSI representative has been
    advised of the possibility of such damages, or for any claim by any third party.
    <BR>Some states of jurisdictions do not allow the exclusions or limitations of
    incidental, consequential or special damages, so the above exclusion may not apply
    to you. Also, some states or jurisdictions do not allow the exclusions of implied
    warranties or limitations on how long an implied warrenty may last, so the above
    limitations may not apply to you. To the extent permissible, any implied warranties
    are limited to ninety &#40;90&#41; days. This warranty gives you specific legal
    rights. You may have other rights that vary from state to state or jurisdiction
    to jurisdiction. For further warranty information, please contact FSI. <BR> <BR>6.
    You agree that this Agreement will be governed by the laws of Germany applicable
    to contracts wholly performable within such state. This agreement will not be
    governed by the United Nations Convention of Contracts for the International Sale
    of Goods, the application of which is expressly excluded. If any part of this
    agreement is found void and unenforceable, it will not affect the vailidity of
    the balance of the Agreement, which shall remain valid and enforceable according
    to its terms. You agree that the Software will not be shipped, transferred or
    exported into any country or used in any manner prohibited by the United States
    Export Administration Act or any applicable export laws, restrictions or regulations.
    This Agreement shall automatically terminate upon failure by you to comply with
    its terms. This Agreement may only be modified in writing signed by an authorized
    officer of FSI. <BR> <BR>7. If this product is acquired under the terms of a &#40;i&#41;
    GSA contract - use, reproduction or disclosure is subject to the restrictions
    set forth in the applicable ADP Schedule contract, &#40;ii&#41; Dod contract -
    use, duplication or disclosure by the Government is subject to restrictions set
    forth in subparagraph &#40;c&#41; &#40;1&#41; &#40;ii&#41; of 252.277-7013; &#40;iii&#41;
    Civilian agency contract - use, reproduction, or disclosure is subject to 52.277-19
    &#40;a&#41; through &#40;d&#41; and restrictions set forth in the accompanying
    End User Agreement. <BR> <BR>FontFont is a trademark of FSI in the US and elsewhere.
    Macintosh is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. Windows is a trademark
    of Microsoft Corporation. FSI Fonts and Software GmbH, Bergmannstr. 102, 10961
    Berlin, Germany FSI Fonts and Software USA Inc., 60 Tehama Street, San Francisco,
    CA 94105 USA <BR> <BR>For U.S. customers: Tel: &#40;415&#41; 512-2093, Fax: &#40;415&#41;
    512-2097  <BR>Other countries: Tel. &#43;49 &#40;30&#41; 693 7022, Fax. &#43;49
    &#40;30&#41; 692 8443'
  created: '2004-05-14 04:46:02'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Oops, some cross-posting there. Oh well. <BR> <BR>T
  created: '2004-05-14 04:47:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; there are laws about inducing somebody to break a contract. <BR> <BR>You
    should see how I drive. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-05-14 05:09:32'
- author:
    name: lescab
  body: 'Thanks Tom, for answering the original question...finally! But your answer
    seems to begin with the assumption we&#39;re working on an existing OT font. Please
    give us a procedure for taking, say, a TT or Type 1 font  &#40;that&#39;s our
    own--legal!&#41;and turning it into OT and adding those very first OT features.  I&#39;m
    not even sure yet how to add the extra glyph slots to accomodate the extra characters
    being added, or how to properly  identify the new slots in a way that InDesign
    will recognize  each one as the one I&#39;m calling for &#40;as you can see, I
    haven&#39;t entered this particular arena at all yet&#41;. <BR>Thanks, <BR>Leslie '
  created: '2004-05-14 06:38:44'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: 'I&#39;m not assuming that it&#39;s already an OT font. I am however assuming
    that all the glyphs are in one font and are named correctly. <BR> <BR>S&#39;funny,
    I was just about to say, I wish Leslie&#39;s book was out, since it probably covers
    this! <BR> <BR>There are probably faster ways of doing this, but one way of merging
    glyphs is: <BR> <BR>1&#41; Open all the relevant fonts. <BR> <BR>2&#41; For the
    fonts that have supplemental glyphs, rename them in that font. You can rename
    a currently selected glyph in the glyph window by digging through the menu commands
    or just hitting Cmd/Ctrl-\ <BR>   Note the handy &#34;next glyph&#34; button in
    the glyph renaming dialog. This allows you to cycle through renaming a bunch without
    having to keep on hitting the rename command again. <BR>   Note also that one
    could script this sort of thing. I think Adam Twardoch at his steroids.fontlab.com
    site has a handy script that does stuff like sticking a given suffix onto a bunch
    of glyph names. Could be great for this kind of thing. <BR> <BR>3&#41; After you
    have all the glyphs renamed, select them all, and hit copy. Switch to the other
    font, and do a contextual click in the main window, and choose &#34;append.&#34;
    Whammo, they&#39;re all there. <BR> <BR>Now you can do the OT programming. <BR>
    <BR>As for how to name glyphs, that&#39;s a whole &#39;nother story.... But one
    that has been addressed here at length in other threads. <BR> <BR>Cheers, <BR>
    <BR>T <BR>'
  created: '2004-05-14 07:43:37'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Hmmm. One problem with the above workflow is that it doesn&#39;t address getting
    the kerning from the supplemental fonts into the main font. Probably AFTER you
    rename the glyphs, you would need to export kerning in the form of an AFM or something,
    and then after appending the glyphs into the master font, import the AFM kerning.
    <BR> <BR>T
  created: '2004-05-14 07:50:36'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: Sean -- <BR> <BR>Despite the confusion and/or contradictions in the FF EULA,
    I would suggest contacting FontFont first and asking permission to make an OT
    version for the use of your company. It would just be good form. <BR> <BR>You
    might find that they have already done so for another client or that they are
    currently working on it and would be able to get you copies easily. Or you may
    find that they&#39;d be happy to do the work for you at a reasonable rate. On
    the other hand, they might say Hey, better you than us, Fine, Go for it, and Good
    luck. <BR> <BR>Despite the fact that Thomas was actually able to make it sound
    relatively easy in theory &#40;good job Thomas, as always&#41;, it will still
    be a fair amount of work in practice -- especially troubleshooting and making
    sure that all the fonts work reliably before you stake your entire production
    cycle on them &#40;!&#41;. <BR> <BR>If your publisher is investing all the time
    and effort in a redesign, it might be worth having the OT fonts developed professionally.
    Any cost is likely to be negligible within the context of the whole. Redesigning
    a magazine and totally revamping editorial/design workflows is complicated enough
    without adding detailed technical font production to the process. I would suggest
    exploring getting FontFont to do this for you. <BR> <BR>Unless of course, you
    don&#39;t have anything better to do and your employer doesn&#39;t mind paying
    for your learning curve ;-&#41;  &#40;But do ask first.&#41; <BR> <BR>-- Kent.
    <BR>
  created: '2004-05-14 12:44:09'
- author:
    name: aquatoad
    picture: 110555
  body: 'Sean: You may know about this, but if not, join. <BR><a href="http://groups.msn.com/fontlab/"
    target="_blank">http://groups.msn.com/fontlab/</a> <BR> <BR>Thomas: Thanks that
    was helpful and overdue at typophile. <BR>Hrant: As you state at Daidalia, here,
    imagination is better than fact :-&#41; <BR>Kent: Good reminder. I&#39;m a chronic
    do-it-your-selfer. '
  created: '2004-05-14 13:50:19'
- author:
    name: pstanley
  body: 'This EULA is, incidentally, a classic example of everything that is wrong
    with legal drafting in the software industry. Whatever it is supposed to mean,
    as an attempt at producing a clear statement of rights and responsibilities, it
    is a disgrace. <BR> <BR>When you buy a font, you are buying the right to use it,
    in certain defined ways. It ought not to be necessary to go back later and ask
    &#34;What can I do?&#34; It ought to be as clear as it can be. As it stands, it
    is not. Instead it looks as if boilerplate language from some other software licence,
    or probably a number of them has been pressed into service. <BR> <BR>It really
    ought not to be difficult to provide a simple list: things you may do; things
    you must not do. These should be clearly set out in a file that accompanies the
    font files so that it is always accessible. <BR> <BR>If type-designers and digital
    foundries wish to maintain their rights and earn a fair return on their investment
    -- which seems to me to be a perfectly reasonable ambition -- they really ought
    to give more thought to the fact that a transaction whereby they licence the use
    of their product has two sides. The purchaser has to be getting something: and
    that something needs to be clearly defined.'
  created: '2004-05-14 13:59:32'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: Randy -- <BR> <BR>I too am an inveterate do-it-myselfer. But as I get older
    and technology gets harder to keep up with, I am slowly recognizing the value
    of letting others do what they&#39;ve spent time learning to do best, so that
    I can focus on what I know &#40;and like to do&#41; best. <BR> <BR>Regardless,
    I&#39;ve also learned that it is good karma to When in Doubt, Ask First. I&#39;ve
    been pleased to experience how when you treat others with respect and professional
    courtesy, you get treated in kind. <BR> <BR>I&#39;ve had several recent experiences
    where I&#39;ve had a publishing client ask me to make modifications to commercial
    fonts &#40;minor mods -- nothing like an OT overhaul which would be beyond me
    at this point&#41; and I&#39;ve had very cordial and permissive interactions with
    Scriptorium, Bitstream, Carter &amp; Cone, and Hoefler. It has also provided the
    opportunity to educate the client about licenses. Good karma all around. <BR>
    <BR>-- K. <BR>
  created: '2004-05-14 14:46:11'
- author:
    name: pstanley
  body: 'Kent <BR> <BR>I&#39;m sure that &#34;when in doubt, ask&#34; is an excellent
    motto, and that professional courtesy is a good thing too. I also think there
    are areas where good manners &#40;especially good professional manners&#41; may
    cause one to do things that the law does not require. <BR> <BR>But contracts are
    not for nice people. Nice people usually don&#39;t need legal intervention. They
    are for nasty people, for selfish people, and for cases of dispute: for OW Holmes&#39;s
    &#34;bad man&#34; -- the &#34;bad man&#34; who might misuse a typeface, and the
    &#34;bad foundry&#34; which might behave unreasonably. Contracts matter most precisely
    where &#34;good manners&#34; are breaking down. From that point of view, they
    really ought to be clear about what is and is not permissible. In other words,
    there really ought not to be much doubt, either way. The boundaries of what the
    selfish user can do and the selfish producer demand ought to be clear. <BR> <BR>The
    decent user may appreciate that some things, while legal, are not quite acceptable.
    The decent foundry may understand that some things, while not expressly permitted,
    are reasonable. Each may accommodate the other. But it is wrong in principal that
    this should happen because the EULA is unclear, or inaccessible, or self-contradictory,
    or confused if that can be avoided.'
  created: '2004-05-14 15:09:56'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: <i>&#62;Contracts matter most precisely where &#34;good manners&#34; are breaking
    down. From that point of view, they really ought to be clear about what is and
    is not permissible. In other words, there really ought not to be much doubt, either
    way. </i> <BR> <BR>Paul -- You&#39;re absolutely right and will get no argument
    from me. The current state of EULAs is abysmal. My comments weren&#39;t really
    a response to your post, although I can see how the chronology may have suggested
    such. <BR> <BR>-- Kent. <BR>
  created: '2004-05-14 17:13:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'I think asking for permission is generally good practice, but it&#39;s also
    dangerous: there are people out there who are unreasonable, unwilling to compromise,
    and getting a permission rejected would put you in an unfair bind. So one good
    tactic might be to ask around about the general behavior of the party in question,
    and only ask permission if you find no reason to believe that they&#39;re nasties.
    It might sound Machiavellian &#40;although he was a softie compared to today&#39;s
    politicians&#41;, but there&#39;s a reason for a reputation preceding somebody,
    and society needs reasonable individuals. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-05-14 17:27:10'
- author:
    name: seanglenn
    picture: 110401
  body: Kent, I have contacted FontFont, but the EULA specifically states that I am
    allowed to modify the fonts, so I&#39;m sure that I&#39;m 100% in the clear. <BR>
    <BR>We&#39;re a small magazine, and a lot of us wear a lot of hats, and mine is
    going to be the &#34;fix the fonts&#34; guy, although as art director, it&#39;s
    my choice to take on this project. <BR> <BR>My plan is to take this project slowly,
    testing at every stage, and then implementing the fonts when they are finished,
    and not before. I&#39;m excited to learn FontLab and OpenType on a real project,
    and not just some theoretical practice. We probably won&#39;t even be using the
    OpenType versions for a couple production cycles.
  created: '2004-05-14 18:48:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; the EULA specifically states that I am allowed to modify the fonts
    <BR> <BR>I thought it stated both. <BR>Which means: the lawyers have it. <BR>
    <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-05-14 18:54:40'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'I can&#39;t seem to find my copy of the FontShop EULA can someone point me
    to it, or at least post the PDF? According to a comparison chart that I have,
    FontShop does allow modifications, but I&#39;d like to see the EULA just because
    I&#39;m paranoid.  <BR> <BR>From memory: Be aware that most Foundries that do
    allow modifications also consider the modified fonts as 1 of the 5 installable
    copies. Meaning if you modify the fonts and install those modified fonts onto
    2 cpu you may only use the non-modified on 3 cpu.'
  created: '2004-05-14 19:06:07'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: I posted the whole dad-blamed thing earlier in this thread. <BR> <BR>T
  created: '2004-05-14 19:49:44'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: :p -- I&#39;m blind. Thanks, T.
  created: '2004-05-14 20:31:20'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'In relation to the article I&#39;ve written on the EULA I contacted the various
    foundries which we added to our chart. FSI was among those emailed. From Berlin,
    Ms. Marekowa wrote: <BR> <BR><blockquote><hr size=0><!-quote-!><b>quote:</b><p>
    <BR>modifications: yes, for customary personal and business use, not <BR>for resale
    or further distribution<!-/quote-!><hr size=0></blockquote>'
  created: '2004-05-15 00:16:32'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'That said, I would still contact them. I agree that contacting the foundries
    is good form. '
  created: '2004-05-15 00:18:51'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: '<i>This is the list of functions I want to include:  <BR>Standard ligatures
    &#40;ff, fi, fl, ffl, ffi&#41; </i> <BR> <BR>I discovered recently that if you
    include the ff, ffi, and ffl ligatures in a Type 1 font and name them &#34;ff,&#34;
    &#34;ffi,&#34; and &#34;ffl,&#34; InDesign finds them and automatically uses them
    when you type those sequences of characters, just the way the fi and fl ligatures
    work in both InDesign and Quark. <BR> <BR>&#40;I tried it with a TrueType version
    of the font, but it didn&#39;t work.&#41;'
  created: '2004-05-15 01:25:29'
- author:
    name: seanglenn
    picture: 110401
  body: Interesting... isn&#39;t the standard glyph naming for those supposed to be
    f_i, f_l, f_f_i, f_f_l etc? <BR> <BR>Cool to know though! <BR> <BR>Does anyone
    know how to export kerning metric info for a selected range of characters in FontLab?
    Obviously I&#39;ll need to do that &#40;and import it as well&#41; for the small
    caps, etc. The manual is horribly dense, and I can&#39;t find that info. It seems
    as though I could delete all the glyphs I am not using, then export the metrics
    from that file &#40;although I&#39;m not sure if the metrics are tied to the glyph,
    or the glyph name... that could be confusing&#41;, then import them into my file
    that contains both the standard glyphs, and the small caps glyphs, it seems like
    FontLab will match them up. Any suggestions? <BR> <BR>Tiffany, I don&#39;t know
    if I agree that it&#39;s necessary to contact the foundry when the EULA specifically
    states that you are allowed to modify your own files. Why waste everyone&#39;s
    time?
  created: '2004-05-15 01:43:35'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: <i>...just the way the fi and fl ligatures work in both InDesign and Quark.</i>
    <BR> <BR>Well, Quark on the Mac, anyway. QuarkXPress on Windows doesn&#39;t do
    ligatures -- not even fi and fl -- in normal fonts. InDesign on Windows does the
    basic ligatures even in Type 1 fonts, as long as they are present and named correctly
    &#40;which they generally are, they&#39;re just unencoded&#41;. <BR> <BR>Of course,
    &#34;expert set&#34; fonts work fine in QXP, even on Windows. <BR> <BR>T
  created: '2004-05-15 01:45:05'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: '<i>&#62;Tiffany, I don&#39;t know if I agree that it&#39;s necessary to contact
    the foundry when the EULA specifically states that you are allowed to modify your
    own files. Why waste everyone&#39;s time?</i> <BR> <BR>Sean, this is only my opinion:
    It is a matter of the degree or nature of the modification. If a EULA allows modification
    for personal use and you wish to adjust the leg of the R to fit a particular dept
    head style you&#39;re creating throughout a pub-- fine. Or perhaps you want to
    rearrange the OS figures out of an expert set into the regular font as a matter
    of convenience -- okay. <BR> <BR>But &#40;again, my opinion&#41;, to convert an
    entire complex font family to a different format and add features is a different
    degree of modification. Many EULAs &#40;even those that allow for personal mods,
    I believe&#41; do prohibit recompiling or converting into different formats --
    i.e., creating an entirely different software program -- without permission.  <BR>
    <BR>I&#39;m not saying don&#39;t go ahead with your plan. That&#39;s your choice.
    I&#39;m just explaining why I personally might choose to spend the time communicating
    with the foundry.  <BR> <BR>As a personal example: Recently a project at my publisher
    required &#40;at the last minute&#41; an instance of italic for a title citation
    in text that was spec&#39;ed in a face that did not have an italic version. I
    was asked to quickly create an oblique for them. I contacted Bitstream to get
    permission first. Jim Lyles informed me that in fact they had already done this
    for another client, but had not planned on releasing the oblique version for commercial
    release. He offered to send me the data if I wanted or I could go ahead and make
    my own if I preferred &#40;for exclusive use by this one client, obviously&#41;.
    The exchange took but a few e-mails and it was not a waste of everyone&#39;s time.
    No deadlines missed; good relations all around. <BR> <BR>-- K. <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2004-05-15 14:25:45'
date: '2004-05-14 02:30:09'
node_type: forum
title: Building an OpenType font, where to start?

---
