---
author:
  name: i cant delete my username
body: "Hi,\r\n\r\nMy design department is looking into purchasing some opentype families.
  We've been trying to find information on Opentype Standard (Std) vs. Opentype complete
  (Com). As an example, we were looking at <a href=\"http://www.linotype.com/191543/itcfranklingothiccomplete-valuepack.html#format\">Franklin
  Gothic</a>, where there is a $437 price difference between the two. Does the complete
  version contain Cyrillic characters, or is the kerning different, or does it lay
  golden eggs? Is there any difference that makes it worth paying that much more?\r\n\r\nI've
  also noticed the suffix Pro on other typefaces, is this a third, more (less?) comprehensive
  version?\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nAndy"
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Although the terminology varies from foundry to foundry, the unfortunately-named
    STD generally refers to fonts that have the same character sets as the old Type
    1 and TrueType fonts.\r\n\r\nPRO fonts are more likely to have a larger character
    set supporting more languages, and a larger feature set, providing things like
    small caps and alternate figures.\r\n\r\nCOM is a Linotype-only term, AFAIK.\r\n\r\nIMO
    the best way so far to check out OpenType features is to go fontshop.com and use
    the interactive menu. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: sabyasamuel
    body: "def Reviews \u2013 Critical Facts You Need To Know Before Buying!\r\nType
      your search here...\r\n\r\n    * Advertise here!\r\n    * Contact\r\n    * Privacy
      Policy\r\n\r\ndef Scam \u2013 Free Trial Or A Total Rip \u2013 Off?\r\ndigg\r\nEmail\r\nRSSS\r\ndigg
      22 Email\r\nPosted by Maria on March 27, 2012\r\n\r\ndef scam\r\n\r\ndef is
      a line of anti-aging rejuvenating products which are claimed to effectively
      remove wrinkles without the use of Botox. The product is supposedly being offered
      on a \u2018free trial\u2019 basis, the consumer has to pay only $1.99 for shipment.
      The product is to be returned within 30 days if the consumer is not satisfied
      with the\r\n\r\nproduct in order to stop further shipment of the product. Seems
      like a pretty risk-free deal, yes? NO! This is where the def Spam jumps in.\r\n\r\ndef
      scam is a result of the company fooling literally hundreds of consumers about
      the \u201Cfree-trial\u201D. Numerous customers reported that money has been
      automatically being deducted from their credit cards, and monthly \u2013 a six
      month\u2019s supple of def products was sent to them even after canceling their
      accounts for the free trial. def Spam has led to people losing approximately
      $69.95 monthly, even without ordering the def creams. Some have even reported
      that around $200 have been charged to their bank accounts.\r\n\r\nThey have
      been exploiting the credit-card details of their customers purely to gain money
      in an illegal manner. The customers claim that they returned the free trial
      bottles within 30 days and informed the company to discontinue the shipment
      of their products to them.\r\n\r\nRemember though this is from the main company
      that is offering the free trials and not many of the other companies who are
      selling the product as you buy most products and not with a free trial.\r\n\r\nAfter
      experiencing the def scam many people tried contacting the customer services.
      In several cases they were just put on hold and their calls were not answered.
      In other cases the customer service representatives answered the customer\u2019s
      calls rather rudely, telling them that they have not canceled the free-trial
      package and have subscribed to the monthly one as well.\r\n\r\nThe only positive
      reviews can be seen from the def official websites; where it is claimed that
      the def scam is a campaign from the competitors, who do not want their brand
      to succeed. A few employees of def have commented on various threads about the
      products saying that the customers have clearly misunderstood the whole deal.
      Nothing comes for free these days; the \u2018free trial\u2019 deal is actually
      a \u2018risk-free trial\u2019. Some websites also suggest that refund was made
      to all the customers who returned their products and their subscriptions were
      canceled. However, the views from hundreds of people suggests otherwise.\r\n\r\nThe
      def scam from the main company has been filed for active lawsuit and all the
      customers are willing for it to face the consequences of literally ripping off
      people\u2019s pocket in order to make illegal money. The company should halt
      all such actions and stop exploiting people\u2019s personal information, such
      as, credit card details, address, etc.\r\n\r\nWe have some suggestions though.
      Don\u2019t buy any free trial offer for this where they re-bill. There are other
      retailers online that sell this product, and you can be sure to test it out
      and see for yourself whether the product can work for you without worrying about
      the problems that have been found through the company with the situation.\r\nStill
      not certain if this product is for you?\r\nClick Here to Claim Your FREE TRIAL
      Bottle\r\n\r\nPosted in def Reviews\r\n0\r\nAdd Your Comment\r\nYour Name\r\nYour
      Email\r\nYour Website\r\nYour Comment\r\nSubmit\r\n\r\nSubscribe to Our Feed\r\nType
      your search here...\r\nRecent Posts\r\n\r\n    * def \u2013 Let\u2019s see if
      this product truly works!\r\n    * Radialabs and def \u2013 Two is better than
      one; or is it?\r\n    * def Instant Effect \u2013 Achieve Visible Results In
      Minutes\r\n    * def Free Trial \u2013 Is It Really Free?\r\n    * def Scam
      \u2013 Free Trial Or A Total Rip \u2013 Off?\r\n\r\ndef reviews\r\n\r\nHello\r\n\r\nMy
      name is Maria , I'm 53 years old and i created this blog to give you my honest
      review about the def anti wrinkle cream.I hope you'll enjoy every piece of info
      I wrote on this blog , its all about this miracle anti aging cream that has
      done wonders for my face skin. If def helped me I'm sure it will help you too.\r\n\r\nKisses,\r\nMaria
      Geller\r\n\r\n\xA9 2013 def Reviews \u2013 Critical Facts You Need To Know Before
      Buying!. Proudly powered by Wordpress\r\n"
    created: '2013-08-07 06:47:26'
  created: '2008-07-23 22:01:48'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Com is roughly equivalent to Pro in that it offers expanded language support.
    You can find this info on the Linotype site. Dig around there, and on other sites;
    click on those little icons in the font panes which tell what glyphs you get (\"character
    set features\"). Unfortunately there is no standard character set designated by
    \"Pro\". It might include small caps, swashes, petite caps, etc. but each foundry
    decides that. With the freedom of OpenType comes the complexity of choosing the
    right product for you. If you rarely do any multilingual typesetting, just get
    \"Std\" fonts and skip the extra languages. But investigate, in case a family
    offers small caps, oldstyle figs and other niceties that you want in the Pro versions.
    \r\n\r\nThere are many many different Franklin Gothic products, including a very
    recent release, which I have to say, could be a very useful tool for a graphic
    design school lab: ITC Franklin, by David Berlow. It is 48 styles, which is more
    than previous Franklin Gothic families; Berlow thought there should be more condensed
    and compressed styles. You can get that at itcfonts.com, and there are Std and
    Pro versions of it. \r\n\r\n[[http://www.itcfonts.com/fonts/mondosearchresults.htm?st=12&kid=itc%20franklin|There
    are always many different packages and ways to get type families;]] as singles,
    as groups or as whole megafamilies. \r\n\r\nBe sure that the school gets the appropriate
    license if these fonts are to be shared in a communal lab. "
  created: '2008-07-23 22:12:25'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: "Thanks both,\r\n\r\nI'll be sure to look more in depth. Sorry I wasn't clear
    about my definition of \"design department.\" In my hastily composed post, I should
    have defined my \"department\" as the Graphic Design Department for an Architecture
    Firm. We're small-four of us. Most of the licenses, by default, cover us plus
    one.\r\n\r\nI only wish we could get all of our typefaces in full \"Pro\" glory,
    but I think our company is generous enough to dole out nearly ten grand to revamp
    our collection into opentype (due to a mac-pc transition, don't get me started).\r\n\r\nIt's
    rather annoying, but at the same time logical that smallcaps wouldn't be listed
    as it's own style. Guess this is why opentype takes a little getting used to.
    I'll pay closer attention to the sub-icons. I think Nick already made a post a
    while back regarding those...\r\n\r\nThanks again!"
  created: '2008-07-23 23:07:33'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "It is tough doing a large font purchase all at once. But the nice thing is
    that OT fonts (if they do include everything) can be used cross-platform.  You
    could also ask for a yearly font budget if they don't want to cough up all at
    once. \r\n\r\nIf there are families whose small caps or other extras you don't
    ever use, then you could still get the Std versions. On the other hand, a transition
    might be a good time to upgrade whole type families like Avenir -> Avenir Next
    Pro, or Bembo -> Bembo Book Pro. \r\n\r\nOn the bright side: You're switching
    to macs!   ;)\r\n\r\nIf you're with architects, I hope they are utilizing your
    services/talents in selecting and laying out architectural graphics and signage.
    Building lettering, identity/wayfinding etc. for architecture too often tends
    to be a careless afterthought. Then there's all the fun of ADA compliance.... "
  created: '2008-07-24 00:02:23'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "If you wanted Franklin Gothic and you wanted some very nice small caps (digitized
    by A-J Pool), you could get them for practically nothing from URW or from one
    of the many bundles that include the URW library for free . . . . . ditto the
    Bitstream library.\r\n\r\nFor several years, we have heard how nobody will be
    able to use anything but OT fonts in the future. MMs are dead, etc. And it's all
    turned out to be a lie. ATM 4.1 still works on Vista (just disable UAC which you
    don't want anyway); and everything old works on Macs, except MMs -- so why not
    use them on Windows instead? There are also font conversion utilities to go from
    one platform to another without paying for new fonts. Most older licenses do not
    expressly forbid this.\r\n\r\nI've said from the start, 12 long years ago, OT
    was badly productized and would never succeed as such -- and it hasn't. An OT
    STD font must contain, at the very least, small caps, OSF, and five ligatures.
    Otherwise there's not much point in shelling out for it. Microsoft realized this
    from the start -- its OT fonts are not denominated as such, and are not charged
    for. They're simply there. You don't have to know you have them. \r\n\r\nThere's
    another excellent reason for sticking with old font licenses: they don't forbid
    PDF-encoding, as so many modern font licenses do. In fact, older font licenses
    are far less restrictive than contemporary ones, by and large. By the Bitstream
    library via a $5 copy of Corel Draw 5, or the URW library via $5 copy of - - can't
    remember the name of the program, but it's out there - - and basically, there's
    not much you can't do with those fonts. They also come in TT and PS, Mac and PC.
    I think the TT versions are completely cross-platform compatible.\r\n\r\nLet me
    joint the chorus of support on Berlow's compressed additions to ITC FG: they're
    absolute lifesavers when space is cramped - - nothing beats them. \r\n\r\nAs for
    Bembo and Bembo Book Pro . . . . they're both highly unsatisfactory. The least
    unsatisfactory versions are those of Berthold and Scangraphic, both of which are
    hard to locate. \r\n"
  created: '2008-07-24 00:33:49'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: "<em>due to a mac-pc transition, don\u2019t get me started</em>\r\nActually,
    I meant the other way around. I've gone from my lovely mac to a pc, due to a whole
    other issue with os 10.5 on new macs not supporting CS2 fully.\r\n\r\nYes Carl,
    We're investing in some new and not so new signage gems- like DIN and Whitney
    . Avenir is our identity's typeface, so we've actually had that for a while. Luckily
    for the architecture field as well- you have kind of a \"captive client\" for
    a really expensive project-meaning a $700-$1200 OT font usually ends up being
    a drop in the bucket. I've just started to do a lot of it, and I'm beginning to
    believe it's a seriously overlooked sector of typography. Okay, I'll stop hijacking
    my own thread now.\r\n\r\nBill, thanks for the notes on the OT STD, and CorelDraw5-I'll
    look into it."
  created: '2008-07-24 01:52:49'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Bill: Bembo Book Pro is a redrawing of Bembo from a different metal master,
    which also compensates for the loss of ink spread. The outlines are not the same
    as those in the original digital Bembo. Berthold isn't likely to have anything
    different from that original version, if anything. \r\n\r\nSo sorry to hear you've
    had to go back to PCs. Can't you upgrade CS to version 3 and skip the whole hardware
    transition? Then you keep your existing fonts. \r\n\r\nBut I realize an architecture
    firm is likely to require PCs. Not as much CAD software is available for macs. "
  created: '2008-07-24 17:01:19'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: "<em>So sorry to hear you\u2019ve had to go back to PCs. Can\u2019t you upgrade
    CS to version 3 and skip the whole hardware transition? Then you keep your existing
    fonts.</em>\r\n\r\nThe issue is that they would have to upgrade to CS3 licenses
    for 250 architects as well. CS4 is (speculated to be-to my understanding at least)
    coming out in less than a year, so it's much more cost effective for us to go
    PC (unfortunately). When CS4 comes out, I'll be the first asking for a mac pro.
    I know you can save as previous versions of InD, Ai and Ps, but it's a pain to
    remember every time and I've noticed sometimes groupings aren't kept.\r\n\r\nIt's
    actually very abnormal (to my shock) for an architecture firm to have their graphic
    designers on macs. This teaches me up for having once thought that no respectable
    design group uses PCs. I must add that I hate typing unicode for accented vowels
    and other characters like that. Back to the glyph palette for me.\r\n\r\nIn the
    long run, I don't think we'll be at a huge disadvantage without some of the minor
    ligatures and osf's (which are most often  on serifs), since we tend to go sans
    on signage, and I think (this can be argued) legibility from distances would be
    lost with them."
  created: '2008-07-24 20:13:40'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Carl, sorry to contradict, but Bembo Book is not a redrawing from a metal
    master -- just take a look. I've discussed this with Robin Nicholas - - who is
    responsible for it. He used Monotype's \"C\" photo master, which is explicitly
    optimized for 13 points. \r\n\r\nThe fact that the C master was optimized for
    13 points is not the problem. The problem is that the photo masters are badly
    drawn, badly conceived. Sadly, the economics were such that Robin did not have
    either the time or the budget to go to metal. \r\n\r\nMonotype Bembo non-Book,
    similarly, is taken from a badly conceived small point photo master.\r\n\r\nNONE
    of the Monotype digital fonts is is taken from a _metal_ master.\r\n\r\nBy contrast,
    Berthold Bembo and Scangraphic Bembo are carefully taken from the metal. The proof
    is in the visual pudding, but I happen to know the guy who did the work for Scangraphic
    (AJ Pool) and have discussed it with him at length. I have _not_ confirmed how
    the Berthold team worked, but . . . . it's metal Bembo in a way that the others
    ain't. And I know enough about the way Berthold went about these things to know
    that's what they would have done.\r\n\r\nA word about the Scangraphic. Pool says
    the text version is the inferior one, left in the catalogue for compatibility
    reasons. The rigorous, faithful redrawing from metal masters by him and Kuester
    is the display version. Unfortunately, that doesn't help you in text. A problem
    with _both_ Scangraphic masters is that the f-ligatures are completely inauthentic,
    and as you know, Bembo without its own f-ligatures is not Bembo. \r\n\r\nThat
    is also the problem with the Berthold version, which is by far the most faithful
    text version (faithful to metal, that is): it doesn't have any f-ligs at all,
    as Berthold was philosophically opposed to f-ligatures in phototype (on the grounds
    that if you used tracking, and it was expected you would, there would be fatal
    compositional errors). \r\n\r\nAround 1996 I worked briefly with Steve Matteson
    and Bill Davis for several months on a possible redrawing of Bembo from metal.
    This was a love project -- there was no upfront money -- which I believe was also
    Robin's problem. I got out of it, after having done A-z of a 60-pt version everyone
    liked, because I got involved with Adobe at that point. I wish I had stuck with
    it, though! Monotype sent me lots of scans, which I couldn't use. I eventually
    worked from a fabulous specimen book which Ross Mills kindly sent me. At that
    time, we naturally conceived it as a multiple master with optical size. Just a
    few years later, that no longer seemed like a good idea and we let it lapse. The
    project was never even mentioned to Robin, who didn't know about it when he was
    working on Bembo Book.\r\n\r\nOn the matter of PCs v. Macs, I am the greatest
    fan of Macs and have been doing Mac journalism for umpteen years. But if you're
    interested in fonts, Vista is the place to be, now we know that ATM 4.1 works
    on it. Vista is the only contemporary OS with total support, via ATM, of all multiple
    master fonts - - all of which, by the way, have licenses from before the no-PDF-embedding
    period. I think National Geographic still uses them - - to fabulous effect. Have
    a look at Kepler MM - - a font you can make do _anything_ -- or the fantastic
    things you can do with the much-maligned ITC Garamond MM - - and the list goes
    on. Vista makes it possible to take advantage of some absolutely fabulous Adobe
    achievements. \r\n\r\nSo if I need to use Bembo for text, I use the old Berthold
    version - - with my own custom-made f-ligs. Too bad, but it's still the only way
    to approximate the beauty of metal Bembo printing. Given the enormous differences
    in the Bembo drawings in the small point sizes, you really have to admire the
    single master that Berthold got out of it. Life Magazine appeared to be using
    it in some of its special issues just a few years ago, but that's the only place
    I've seen Bembo Berthold recently.\r\n\r\nAs I understand it, neither Berthold
    nor Scangraphic is now allowed to sell their versions of Bembo under the name
    of Bembo. Too bad. I'm glad I still have my copies! Sorry to stray so far off
    topic! (PS The Bitstream version of Bembo is also unaccountably bad - - it's from
    a photo Lino master, which was probably direct licensed from Monotype.)"
  created: '2008-07-24 20:37:32'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"Carl, sorry to contradict, but Bembo Book is not a redrawing from a metal
    master \u2014 just take a look. I\u2019ve discussed this with Robin Nicholas -
    - who is responsible for it. He used Monotype\u2019s \u201CC\u201D photo master,
    which is explicitly optimized for 13 points.\r\n\r\nThe fact that the C master
    was optimized for 13 points is not the problem. The problem is that the photo
    masters are badly drawn, badly conceived. Sadly, the economics were such that
    Robin did not have either the time or the budget to go to metal.\r\n\r\nMonotype
    Bembo non-Book, similarly, is taken from a badly conceived small point photo master.\r\n\r\nNONE
    of the Monotype digital fonts is is taken from a _metal_ master.\"\r\n\r\nBill,
    I'm not sure where you get your information, but this is not the case. Robin Nicholas
    certainly didn't confirm your tale. He doesn't recall discussing the Bembo Book
    project with you, nor any of your claims. \r\n\r\nWhat became Bembo Book was originally
    drawn for a custom client who specifically asked for a digitization of 13 point
    hot metal Bembo. You have the size right somehow, but not the technology. You
    have to do more than just \"take a look\" to get the full story. There's more,
    which I actually did get directly from Robin, but what's important to clarify
    is that the new version of Bembo was intentionally derived from the metal, since
    that has been the complaint about the photo and digital versions all along. Monotype
    has been fully aware of this complaint through the years. What would be the purpose
    of releasing another version based on the same art? \r\n\r\nBill, remember that
    I work at Monotype, and I actually am friendly with all the people whose names
    you drop. Just saw them a week ago at TypeCon. It's very easy for me to check
    your \"facts\".\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-28 19:00:33'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Carl, why don't you drop me an email and I'll send you my tapes. \r\n\r\nIn
    late 2006 I did an article briefly, and very kindly mentioning Bembo Book for
    MacDirectory. I interviewed Robin, and also Pat and David Saunders. \r\n\r\nThanks
    to dtsearch, I can give you these email items from Steve Matteson to me:\r\n\r\n\"How
    would you like to be commissioned to do Bembo MM?\" (May 6, 1997)\r\n\r\nand\r\n\r\n\"Hi
    Bill, \r\n Thanks for the Bembo - looks pretty nice. Our plans right now for\r\nan
    opentype Bembo are starting to come together. The main things\r\nwe got going
    are the slight beefing up of the current PS volume\r\nfor text setting plus investigating
    the display data we had for\r\nLasercomp. I'll let you know if there are any further\r\ndevelopments.\r\nSteve\"
    (March 25, 1999)\r\n\r\nCarl, why don't you check out Monotype's email archives
    before you start talking about 'facts'? Once you've done so, do you think it would
    be out of order for me to ask for an apology?\r\n\r\nLook, I realize BemboMT and
    Bembo Book are embarrassing for Monotype. But the way forward isn't to push them.
    The way forward is to get it right. \r\n\r\nCorrection? I wrote above that the
    project I was working on with Steve was never even mentioned to Robin -- I base
    that on what Robin told me in 2005. But looking back at my emails with Steve today,
    I now think maybe Robin misremembered. FWIW\r\n\r\nAnyway, all that stuff about
    the C photo master is all on tape.\r\n\r\nLook, I never post about any event I
    can't back up. Why should I? The truth is far more interesting than anything I
    could make up. But what beats me is what it has to do with you. You weren't a
    participant. You weren't there. What's your interest? \r\n\r\nAnd if you care
    so much about Bembo and you're at Monotype, why aren't you working on it? Like
    Ed Mendelson said to me, 'I'd pay a lot of money for a good digital version of
    Bembo, and I say that as one who has two children to educate.'"
  created: '2008-07-29 01:44:59'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "OK, I have spent some hours looking at metal and digital Bembo, and I believe
    I may have detected a key area where Robin went wrong. One goal in Bembo Book
    was to give the fonts the added meat they would have had in letterpress printing.
    So he beefed up the characters considerably.\r\n\r\nThe mistake he made was to
    respect the x-height line absolutely, for fear, no doubt, of being accused of
    expanding the x-height. So all the weight that was added to x-height characters
    was added under the x-height line. It should also have been added slightly over
    it, precisely as happens with letterpress inkspread.\r\n\r\nThe result is that
    at text sizes, Bembo Book gives the weird impression of having an x-height even
    smaller than that of metal Bembo. It somehow looks too narrow even though it is
    hard to prove that by measurement. \r\n\r\nOne of my favourite Bembo books is
    the 1966 Penguin edition of Julia Child et al. v. 1. It's a beautiful example
    of how well the font works under coarse printing conditions. Bloated and blunt
    as the printing is when blown up, one can put Bembo Book on top of it and see
    that it's terribly close - - heartbreakingly close. \r\n\r\nYet set a page in
    Bembo Book and nothing works. It just isn't there. \r\n\r\nThere are other issues,
    obviously - - contrast, fitting, weight, etc. -- and these issues are eerily similar
    to those in the Bembo photo masters. Bembo isn't an easy problem to solve, and
    ultimately the only solution is some kind of MM or the multiple single master
    approach that Sumner Stone so successfully utilized in his Cycles family. And
    speaking of Sumner there are his great rules for his executants on the ITC Bodoni
    project: you can never proof blowups. You can only proof at the size the font
    is intended to be printed at.\r\n\r\nCan't someone else have a go at this? Carl,
    why don't you make some comparisons and tell us what you find? You may find, as
    I did, that Monotype's resources are pretty poor, but there are plenty of people
    reading Typophile who could help you out with materials. "
  created: '2008-07-29 13:56:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Can\u2019t someone else have a go at this?</em>\r\n\r\nWhat's your budget?"
  created: '2008-07-29 15:57:14'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Nick, don't take the bait. Nothing is wrong with Bembo Book, it's all in
    Bill's head. \r\n\r\nBill, the objectionable thing about pretty much all your
    posts is the unending sour grapes. Your problem with Bembo Book is that it was
    not your version. Your project was ultimately rejected. Steve was very gracious,
    or perhaps foolish, to seem to encourage you. Do you really imagine that a comprehensive
    re-working of Bembo would be undertaken within Monotype, behind Robin's back?
    Pretty delusional, even for you. \r\n\r\nSteve's posts you quote above do nothing
    to support your claim about Bembo Book's origins. They all predate the work that
    Robin did on the new version, as does all the work you heard about. I have in
    fact been at Monotype (as an actual employee, not as a virtual, self-appointed
    critic) since 2001, so yes, indeed I have been here the whole time that Bembo
    Book was being developed, originally for a custom client, once again, based on
    hot metal drawings. And I might point out, you have never been an employee of
    Monotype, nor a consultant, nor a published type designer. What really are your
    qualifications for all this criticism? Your inability to let go is not sufficient.
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-29 18:48:43'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">Do you really imagine that a comprehensive re-working of Bembo would be
    undertaken within Monotype, behind Robin\u2019s back? Pretty delusional, even
    for you.\r\n\r\nNot delusional, Carl, just innocent. I believed what Robin told
    me - - in a taped interview - - in 2005. He told me he was unaware of anything
    Steve and I talked about in the 90s. So either (a) he forgot, (b) he wasn't told,
    or (c) he was lying. Personally, I don't care. Once it could no longer be an MM
    project, I wasn't interested. Like I said, just drop me a line if you want access
    to the tapes. I tape all my interviews.\r\n\r\nAlso, I don't want to boast about
    something insignificant, but Precision Type started publishing me in 1995 or so,
    and the stuff wasn't bad for its day.\r\n\r\nIn the meantime, I suggest you start
    looking at any of the millions of books typset in metal Bembo, so you can get
    an idea what's wrong. \r\n\r\nAnd may I remind you that it was Adobe that was
    responsible for getting Bembo MT into publishable form? Adobe is responsible for
    every single publishable type in the Monotype Classic Collection.\r\n\r\nAnd by
    the way, other than ineffable animus, what's this all about? Are you getting paid
    to spend time on the net getting Monotype's views across?\r\n\r\nThis is so unfair.
    As far as I know, the only positive review ever published of Bembo Book was ...
    by me. "
  created: '2008-07-29 19:47:17'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'And I''m the only one who ever gave Mono a full couple of pages about the
    merger with an interview and photo of Bob Givens. If only he were still there!
    I believe low level employees kept civiler tongues in his day. '
  created: '2008-07-29 20:18:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I ain't taking no bait Carl, that was a rhetorical question.\r\nA \"Bembo
    Next\" would have to be executed at the level of Arno to satisfy Bill, and that's
    too tall an order.\r\nNo amount of cash could persuade me, and I suspect many
    other limners of glyphs, to spend several years redrawing and extending Bembo--that
    would drive me crazy! I'd rather work on my own designs."
  created: '2008-07-29 20:22:21'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Nick, you are right. What you have said is what every designer who has ever
    had this task before him or her has said -- whether they wanted to admit it or
    not. It's a dreadful task. What you're saying is exactly what Matthew Carter always
    tells me everytime I tell him that because he's the one guy who could properly
    revive Bembo, he should do it. But there's a clear way forward for lesser mortals:
    you decide what letterpress print you are absolutely going to replicate, and then
    you go ahead and do it -- obviously, since the Bembo metal fonts can have substantial
    differences even at the half sizes for various reasons, doing it as a Sumner Stone-style
    multiple single master set of fonts. The fact is, Monotype ought to find the budget
    to do it. It's their greatest achievement in the area of fine printing in the
    20th century. If there exists a moral imperative for any entity to get Bembo right,
    it's Monotype's. Not to mention that it would be a huge commercial success.\r\n\r\nMANY
    apologies for the following illustration showing a _very_ coarse print of Bembo
    against BemBook at 10.9 points with -2 (Quark style) tracking in the third line
    and -3 tracking in the fourth line. The scan is dreadful but you can still tell
    some of the areas where BemBook goes wrong. One problem, as I said before, is
    that all the additional weight has occurred under the x-height-line (and maybe
    over the top ascender line?) with the result that BemBook appears fractionally
    but significantly to have too low an x-height. Another problem is contrast. Finally,
    the fitting isn't consistent with the added density. When you have added density,
    the fitting often has to be tighter, not the other way around. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/snip
    of julia and BemBook_6595.GIF]"
  created: '2008-07-29 21:56:29'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Let me just add that the 'snip' of BemboBook here makes it look _much_ better
    than it does in print. You can only appreciate how dreadful it is when you print
    with it. I've identified two and a quarter things wrong with it. Can't someone
    else figure out what the other problems are? I just know it don't look right.
    \r\n\r\nNick, tell me a bit more about what you mean about Arno. I haven't yet
    looked at the face and would appreciate knowing what struck you."
  created: '2008-07-29 22:00:07'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Just one more point via Carl's rash remark,\r\n\r\n\"Berthold isn\u2019t
    likely to have anything different from that original version, if anything.\"\r\n\r\nCarl,
    Berthold legendarily did its own drawing, and its Monotype photo masters were
    superior to Monotype's own. Here's Bembo Book, top, Berthold Bembo BQ bottom,
    and you can see at once that Berthold's really does look like Bembo -- and nothing
    like BemboMT, in spite of Carl's asseveration. In fact, BemboBQ is much closer
    to BemboBook than to BemboMT. The only weakness of Berthold's version, in my view,
    is the f, which is superior in BemboBook. Other than that it is misproportioned,
    that f is close to perfection. Isn't it amazing how Lange and his team simply
    didn't get the Bembo f and f-ligs while they were so brilliantly getting everything
    else? The other weakness of course is the lack of f-ligs in the Berthold version,
    but that is easily fixed. The weight of the Bembo Book version is preferable also.
    I wonder what an interpolation between Berthold's regular and bold would produce?
    \r\n\r\nI sometimes wish people would check their facts, or as Carl would put
    it, \"facts\", before they post. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bemboBQ
    versus BemboBook_3854.GIF]"
  created: '2008-07-30 00:22:42'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Finally, here, top BemBook, middle BemBerthold with my corrected f and fi
    lig, bottom the old BemboMT.\r\n\r\nOne can see at once that Berthold's version
    has nothing to do with the dreadful ascender-descender-clipped BemboMT. It is
    much closer to Bembo Book - - \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bembook,
    berthold, bemMT_5068.GIF]"
  created: '2008-07-30 00:44:09'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "One final note -- in spite of my criticism of Berthold's f, it has a necessary
    refinement lacking in both the Monotype digitizations. The upper part of f tilts
    discreetly but necessarily two units to the left. There is a corresponding tilt
    in the top part of the t, two units to the right. You cannot, as a general rule,
    and especially in a typeface with generous ascenders and descenders, have entirely
    straight f's and t's or else, when they are placed together, they will look like
    two drunks leaning on one another. Making them straight is a common amateur mistake.
    \r\n\r\nEverything depends on the proportions, the style, and the intended size.
    For example, Matthew Carter's Galliard has the tilts (in his own versions), while
    his Miller does not. It is wholly typical of Berthold that it would make this
    refinement where necessary, and wholly typical of Monotype that it would not -
    - would not, perhaps, even know, now, that this was a part of making good type.
    \r\n\r\nI wrote about this in the mid-90s when [forget his name's] Golden Cockerel
    came out in an article in - - DTP Journal? John Hudson then promised (possibly
    on whatever public forum we were using in those days - - or maybe on the phone
    or maybe in email but I think it was in a forum) that he would always tilt his
    f's and t's in the future - - but I haven't checked to see what his current practice
    is. \r\n\r\nCarl, maybe you'd like to give John a call? \"Fact\"-checking sessions
    can be fun!"
  created: '2008-07-30 01:04:34'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: "John...Matthew...Bob...Steve...Robin\r\n\r\ndid  I drop enough names there?"
  created: '2008-07-30 03:45:36'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: you forgot Bembo
  created: '2008-07-30 10:37:02'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "Earlier this morning, Bill Troop wrote \"you forgot Bembo.\"\r\n\r\nWell,
    it might be a good idea indeed to forget Bembo. Just to let it lie, let it rest
    on its considerable laurels. & not try to re-create it. There are considerable
    obstacles to accurate re-creation, or even to acceptable re-creation, of existing
    typefaces, typefaces created and used with earlier technologies. Among them: vastly
    different technologies and tools for creation and manufacture of type; vastly
    different methods for setting and composing type; vastly different printing methods
    and kinds of paper available upon which to print these types. Given all these
    differences, it might be very good if typeface designers and finishers and manufacturers
    could concentrate on making new types intended for use under current conditions,
    and not to bother about revivals. What does it really gain us to be able to assert
    that one or another revival is \u201Cthe most faithful . . . version\u201D of
    a particular type? Why not save our heat and light for evaluation of new types?\r\n\r\nAs
    a hand compositor and as a pressman I worked on many of those millions of books
    set in metal Bembo. I came to admire the face, came to admire it so well that
    my printing business partner & I began to lovingly call it \u201Cboring, boring
    Bembo\u201D even as we specified it for one letterpress book job after another.
    It worked so well on a Miller Simplex, printed on Mohawk Superfine, and in many
    another press/paper combination.\r\n\r\nThen, a few years ago, I was sent a pre-release
    version of Bembo Book, for evaluation. I had seen too many attempts at re-working
    Bembo for new generations of typesetting: I never even opened the folder. I sent
    what I hoped was a polite note to the person at Monotype who had sent it, and
    explained why I\u2019d decline to test it and to comment. I had been disappointed
    too many times. Bill Troop also wrote earlier today: \u201CBembo isn\u2019t an
    easy problem to solve.\u201D I think we have seen the truth of that over the years,
    and, quite frankly, I have more than enough work to do as it is, and no time to
    see if I can figure how to make Bembo Book work.\r\n\r\nAlthough I have in general
    little interest in type revivals, I am not completely opposed to them. I was very
    happy to have Monticello available, even though I\u2019ve not used it that much.
    It may be in part an emotional response: it takes me back many years, to when
    I first started seeing type, to when I saw something unique in the setting of
    the Jefferson papers. For a long time I wanted an Electra revival that would capture
    the unique aspects of that face; I\u2019m over that now. There was a time, as
    typesetting equipment shifted to smaller computers, when there was little choice
    but to pull out all the old dogs we\u2019d been using for years. So often the
    results were unhappy. Those years are behind us; people are making great new types.
    Long may they prosper. Let\u2019s keep looking at Bembo and other faces as inspiration
    for faces to come. But stop butchering them in ill-fated attempts to \u201Crevive\u201D
    them.\r\n\r\npowers\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-30 16:08:06'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite> [forget his name\u2019s] Golden Cockerel</cite>\r\n\r\nDave Farey"
  created: '2008-07-30 16:22:55'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "><em>Well, it might be a good idea indeed to forget Bembo.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    think that there may be something to this. Creating new typefaces instead of translating
    old ones into new technological formats is the sort of thing that led to Ensched\xE9's
    Trinit\xE9, just to name one brilliant design of the digital era\u2026"
  created: '2008-07-30 16:52:04'
- author:
    name: steve matteson
    picture: 114890
  body: "I really can't believe I'm chiming in here - especially while on vacation
    for pete's sake.... But I feel the need to point out that this statement from
    Bill Troop is completely untrue:\r\n\r\n\"Around 1996 I worked briefly with Steve
    Matteson and Bill Davis for several months on a possible redrawing of Bembo from
    metal. This was a love project \u2014 there was no upfront money \u2014 which
    I believe was also Robin\u2019s problem. I got out of it, after having done A-z
    of a 60-pt version everyone liked, because I got involved with Adobe at that point.
    I wish I had stuck with it, though! Monotype sent me lots of scans, which I couldn\u2019t
    use. I eventually worked from a fabulous specimen book which Ross Mills kindly
    sent me. At that time, we naturally conceived it as a multiple master with optical
    size. Just a few years later, that no longer seemed like a good idea and we let
    it lapse. The project was never even mentioned to Robin, who didn\u2019t know
    about it when he was working on Bembo Book.\"\r\n\r\nWe did not work 'together'
    - BillT simply sent me some FOG data that he digitized from some specimen he liked.
    It was ok but it really didn't look like Bembo to me. Working 'Together' implies
    that there was some exchange of ideas - there weren't. As you see from his quote
    from me - Monotype was putting its own plans together for OT Bembo. I really didn't
    want to involve Bill but he calls, tells me an idea and then sends FOG data....
    kinda one-sided. I was stupid not to be up front with Bill and just tell him 'leave
    me alone I'm busy with many other projects'.\r\n\r\nWill Powers and Dan Reynolds'
    posting about revivals - VERY good points indeed!!\r\nsteve\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-30 17:29:37'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">Dave Farey\r\n\r\nThanks James! A superb draughtsman -- \r\n\r\nWill, I
    think you are philosophically correct, but I don't think you're entirely correct
    from a practical point of view. Without being able to argue this out in an organized
    way, as you have, I just have a couple of points.\r\n\r\n1. The example of Electra.
    Part of the problem with its being so unsatisfactory is that the people who revived
    it wanted to improve it -- 'we want to do things you never could have done with
    the old Lino equipment' -- and kidding themselves that this is what Dwiggins and
    Griffith would really have wanted. But there's still a practical need for Electra,
    and it could be met. That said, what's more marvellous than Gerhard Unger studying
    Electra and coming up with Swift and Argo? Superb! But there's only one Unger!
    -- and frankly, there's only one Swift. \r\n\r\n2. Look at a highly Bembo-influenced
    typeface like Scala ... a great nonce typeface, impossible to set with if you
    use single right and left quotation marks, too stylish ... it gets a lot of great
    things from Bembo but it is in no sense a replacement even though it is useful
    in places where you might like to use Bembo -- as long as you don't use single
    quotation marks (i.e. as long as you are not setting for the UK).\r\n\r\n3. Why
    should we go through the AGONY of making good revivals of these classics? \r\n\r\nSimply
    because we can't design really good type today without knowing how they did it
    first. And that means mastering optical optimization, fitting, aesthetics, the
    entire panoply of factors that went into great metal. \r\n\r\nWhat I always say
    to people who want to set in Bembo today is, support your metal shop. It could
    be cheaper than you think! \r\n\r\nOther factors:\r\n\r\n4. Had Monotype even
    looked - - (judging by Crossgrove's remarks they were too arrogant even to look)
    at Berthold's version, they would have known what to do.\r\n\r\n5. Had the entire
    font industry not abandoned multiple master technology (= good typefaces) for
    OT technology (= international support and more global dominance for MS and Adobe),
    we might be on the road to better type.\r\n\r\n6. Adobe did not conceptualize
    but it did implement MM. That said, its optical masters had a fatal error. The
    rule was that a six point master must be designed such that it can be set at 72
    points without looking too bad, and 72 point master must be designed such that
    it can set at six points without fadeout and without otherwise looking too bad.
    (This at a time when PS rasterizers -- but not some clones -- went to enormous
    lengths to prevent dropout, then regarded as the greatest possible cardinal sin.)
    The result of this assumption -- that you have to design the product for the stupidest
    possible customer -- was that optical masters could never make a convincing case
    for themselves during the MM decade. I put Adobe and myself through hell over
    this issue when I was working for them, and I think I can claim credit for the
    payoff -- the optical instances in some of the OT releases are indeed far more
    extreme than anything Adobe permitted itself in the 90s. They really did rethink
    optical optimization.\r\n\r\nA single designer should not be tasked with a project
    like Bembo. Bembo was the result of a large group effort, and I don't think anyone
    today other than Matthew Carter could revive it singlehanded. He doesn't want
    to (his type for Yale is not a revival of Bembo so much as a take on it). Neither
    does Sumner Stone, who is doing fabulous optical work with his own wonderful Cycles
    design. But what's the matter with a team doing it? \r\n\r\nLinotype invested
    a million dollars in its revival of Univers Next or whatever it was called --
    you have to wonder how a million went into it. That would certainly be enough
    to get a team of three or four really competent people going ... I mean come on
    - - Monotype has been working on photo and digital masters of Bembo for 40 years
    without getting it. The problem isn't Bembo, the problem is Monotype. Jeff Level
    told them that in the early 90s, and got the boot for his troubles. \r\n\r\nThis
    is the thing - - whether a type is in metal or digital, a great type, a type that
    will make millions of great books - - a type you will be sick of for years at
    a time - - takes thousands of hours to make. Most of us today have only a few
    hundred - - even a few dozen hours - - to put into a typeface.\r\n\r\nSometime
    around 2000, Bitstream asked me to do a multiple master of News Gothic. It had
    to be done in two weeks. Using their base data, I managed to do it. But I had
    so little time to consider niceties that I never even noticed that the type I
    was working on was not News Gothic but Trade Gothic. Sure I got the job done,
    but that isn't the way to design great type. \r\n\r\nA nice, a beautiful, a wonderful,
    a functional typeface is one thing. But something like Bembo that we still miss
    every day? That deserves more effort than anyone has put in -- other than Berthold.
    \r\n\r\nAnd, going back to philosophy, what's wrong with Robert Slimbach putting
    more than a decade into Garamond revivals? OK, OK - - I hear you. "
  created: '2008-07-30 17:31:37'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: "whoa, haven't checked typophile in a while... This conversation got long.\r\n\r\nI
    don't mind the hijack since my question was answered, but just as a note, I retitled
    this thread so someone may be able to find this conversation later."
  created: '2008-07-30 23:54:47'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "Two more responses to Bill Troop:\r\n\r\nELECTRA: The need for Electra in
    a version suitable for current type technologies is not a \"practical\" one. It
    is an aesthetic one. Electra is an expression of the aesthetic of a particular
    time and social situation, one that is especially \"American.\" It speaks to the
    aspirations we held for technology and progress. Nothing quite like it has come
    to typographers since then. Should folks set out to make a version for machines
    we use today, I hope they'd take a basically conservative approach. That is: not
    to attempt to read the minds of Dwiggins and Griffith and expand their original
    offerings. Not to give us a whole panoply of weights, not to give us \"caption\"
    renderings, etc. Just a well thought-out and well-drawn version of Electra. In
    truth, though, I might not even wish to use it. Like Bembo, I might leave it be.
    \r\n\r\nThen there's Troop's comment that \"we can\u2019t design really good type
    today without knowing how they did it first.\"\r\n\r\nI'm not a type designer,
    and never will be. But I spent many years learning \"how they did it first\" before
    I hung out my shingle as a book designer. I'm every day thankful for those lessons.
    But those modes of work have been gone for a long time. As a designer and as a
    teacher and mentor I have passed on those lessons to younger designers, but only
    refracted through my experience. There has been plenty of significant work done
    in type design over the past twenty years that it now constitutes \"how they did
    it first.\" Good teachers who have never worked with prior methods can indeed
    pass on valid methods of design and production work to those who wish to learn
    them. I may be one of the few people who teach typography these days who do not
    feel it is important to expose type students to letterpress. Yes, it is historic;
    yes, it is cool; yes, I know it fackwards and borwards. I'm not convincd it really
    is of any value to current students of design. I may be going out on a limb here,
    but I'm not sure it is needed for students today.\r\n\r\nGood night.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2008-07-31 05:03:12'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "Oh: Thanks to Chipman 223 for graciously encouraging the conversation by
    changing the thread title, even after the original idea had been hijacked. My
    thoughts about revivals had been brewing for some time, and I guess this thread
    seemed to be the opportune place to loose them on the world.\r\n\r\nNow, for sure:
    good night.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2008-07-31 05:07:07'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Will, those are fantastic points. You are right. Truly, there has been much
    great design in the last 20 years. Magazine and small piece design has reached
    fabulous heights.\r\n\r\none big point: \"the plain book\" -- is still very hard
    to do. Recently I looked at a usage book printed in England in the late 40s, and
    set in 12 point Baskerville with lots of indented 10 point quotations. You can't
    help noticing the fabulous evenness of colour due to the separate masters for
    10 and 12 points. You couldn't achieve this VERY SIMPLE THING today unless you
    were using one font, Stone's Cycles. It should be available for all fonts. Small,
    indented quotations are still needed. Cycles, by the way, is as American in its
    way as Electra. But it isn't a substitute. Yes, Electra really does convey a period,
    but I think we would be using it today if it was good and meaty and worked. But
    let me focus. My concern is primarily \"the plain book\" and how to make it work.
    Now suppose the \"plain book\" we are working on is a novel. Suppose it follows
    English usage with single quotation marks for conversation. We can't use Scala,
    because the right quote mark has negative kerns to nearly every letter it precedes
    on some cock-eyed theory, I imagine, that this helps words with apostrophes look
    'better'. The result is that every word or phrase with surrounding single quotes
    looks imbalanced because there is plenty of room between the left quote mark and
    the letter it follows, and none between the the right quote mark and the letter
    it precedes. This is a typeface, in other words, that has been conceived for the
    \"small piece\", not the \"plain book\". Not that it couldn't work for longer
    projects with a little modification. But in 15 years of everyone in the world
    using Scala, I believe I am the first to have noticed this dreadful kerning of
    the apostrophe/right quotation mark. That alone shows, I think, too much, how
    we have got too far away from traditional standards. \r\n\r\na second small point:
    look at any magazine from the 50s and 60s -- some dumb magazine like the horticulture
    mag of the day -- forget the title -- and you're struck at once by the thinness
    of the serifs on the display type - - you're struck by all the thins in fact.
    Hairlines everywhere such as we simply do not dream of seeing today. The layout
    is not just dated but clunky and clumsy by today's standards. But the type is
    better because it uses optimized metal sizes. Today's type looks clunky by comparison.\r\n\r\nSuppose
    we had today's aesthetics backed by all of today's and yesterday's tools? Why
    shouldn't that be tomorrow's aesthetic? \r\n\r\nOK, OK, I've had enough - - and
    I'm sure every else has too. This is what I am going to do, and I am sure it will
    offend a lot of people but I am also sure it's a good thing to do. I'm going to
    take Berthold's photomaster of Bembo, redigitize it, and release it in a month
    or two under the name BORGIA. I will of course make some changes . . . . but not,
    I hope, enough to spoil its utility. And I sure as hell am not going to use that
    awful kerning system . . . . \r\n\r\nNow I wonder - - did Berthold ever do Electra
    ? ? ? ? \r\n"
  created: '2008-07-31 10:45:40'
- author:
    name: sabyasamuel
  body: "Bellaplex and abc\r\nBellaplex and abc review\r\nMenu\r\nSkip to content\r\n\r\n
    \   * Home\r\n\r\nWhere to buy Bellaplex and abc\r\n8 Replies\r\nBellaplex and
    abc is a SCAM| Do not buy\r\n\r\nHi guys,\r\n\r\nbellaplexandabcsmileI usually
    don\u2019t complain, but after being billed two months in a row after I canceled
    my subcription, I got really pissed because they took my money for  products that
    didn\u2019t even work.\r\nabc and Bellaplex didn\u2019t work\r\n\r\nI found bellaplex
    online and I did a quick research online about this product and it was suggested
    to to use abc for better result.Since It was a free trial and the product seemed
    legit, I tried both products.After following the instructions and using both products,
    I really didn\u2019t see no results, my skin didn\u2019t improve at all.The bellaplex
    cream smelled really bad also, I had to put extra layer of perfume to cover the
    strong smell, it litterally smelled like rotten milk.Since It was a free trial,
    I decided to cancel my subscription for both products.\r\n\r\nAfter the cancellation,
    they kept mailling me the products and billing me for it.To get a refund, I returned
    \ both products with my transaction number and guess what they didn\u2019t return
    my money.To make matters worst the next month they billed me again and didn\u2019t
    even bother to send me the products, that\u2019s how I figured out that it was
    the same company selling Bellaplex and abc.I was so pissed, I had to contact my
    credit card company to have them stop billing me because it was started to become
    ridicalus, and luckely I was able to get a full refund.\r\nWhy I recommend Truvisage
    over abc and Bellaplex\r\n\r\nBellaplexAndabc3ed4rEven after my bad experience
    with abc and Bellaplex, I was still desparate into solving my aging skin issues.I
    joined many Facebook groupes that were talking about skin care products, and one
    user caught my attention because she supposely 57 years old and had a flawless
    skin for her age.I sent her a friend request.She accepte me, I told her my situation,
    and I asked her what products those she uses to have such a young looking skin.She
    said she have been using Truvisage Anti-Aging cream for only 2 weeks now.She recommended
    me to try Truvisage for free and she swore that it was not a scam like Bellaplex
    and abc.She send me her before and after picture. LOOK BELOW:\r\n\r\nbellaplexandabcfriend2bellaplexandabcfriend1\r\n\r\nCLICK
    HER TO TRY TRUVISAGE FOR FREE\r\nMy experience with TRUVISAGE\r\n\r\nAfter 3 weeks,
    I was getting impressive results, I was shocked on how clear my skin was under
    one month.Look at the picture below:\r\n\r\nBEFORE\r\n\r\nBellaplexandabcokface\r\n\r\nAFTER
    3 WEEKS\r\n\r\nbellaplexandabcstar\r\n\r\nAfter the trial period, Truvisage got
    ride of most off  the my wrinkles around the eyes.Look at the picture below:\r\n\r\nBefore\r\n\r\nbellaplexandabcundereyebefore\r\n\r\nAfter
    one month\r\n\r\nbeforeandabcundereye\r\n\r\nAfter using Truviage for over 3 months,
    my skin is clear and has almost no wrinkles.\r\nI look like as if I was still
    27 years old lol !!!\r\n\r\nbellaplexandabc26yearsoldbellaplexandabcwithhat\r\n\r\nLeft:
    Me at 27 years old              Right: Me at 48 years old\r\n\r\nI strongly recommend
    you guys to try Truvisage for FREE, I garantee that you will be so impress that
    with no hesitition you will purchase next month supply.For a free trial, you can
    only get this promotion from their official website.\r\n\r\nCLICK HERE FOR YOUR
    FREE TRIAL\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n \r\nThis entry was posted in Uncategorized on March
    30, 2013 by Admin.\r\nSearch for:\r\nRecent Posts\r\n\r\n    * Where to buy Bellaplex
    and abc\r\n\r\nRecent Comments\r\n\r\n    * touchscreen gloves on Where to buy
    Bellaplex and abc\r\n    * cheap mens suits on Where to buy Bellaplex and abc\r\n
    \   * We make the best selection of the most selling products online on Where
    to buy Bellaplex and abc\r\n    * Revitalize Skin Cream on Where to buy Bellaplex
    and abc\r\n    * fake oakleys polarized on Where to buy Bellaplex and abc\r\n\r\nArchives\r\n\r\n
    \   * March 2013\r\n\r\nCategories\r\n\r\n    * Uncategorized\r\n\r\nMeta\r\n\r\n
    \   * Log in\r\n    * Entries RSS\r\n    * Comments RSS\r\n    * WordPress.org\r\n\r\nProudly
    powered by WordPress\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-22 06:47:16'
- author:
    name: sabyasamuel
  body: "Feedburner Receive our consumer tips & recalls newsletter by e-mail \r\n\r\n
    \ \r\n Feedburner count\r\nWRITE REVIEWCATEGORIESRESOURCESMY ACCOUNT\r\nHome >
    Health & Beauty >\r\nFacebook\r\nTwitter\r\nGoogle+\r\nLinkedIn\r\npqr\r\n\r\nStar
    Empty star Empty star Empty star \r\n84 Reviews & Complaints\r\nTop Customer Complaints
    & Reviews:\r\nBeware Of The pqr Free Trial Offer, What They don't Tell You!\r\nWhile
    driving, I was listening to a really long advertisement on the radio about this
    pqr cream and how amazing it was, it went on to say that I could receive a 30
    day free trial, I'd pay 7.95 for S&H.\r\nDoesn't Work, They'll take your money
    even if you Cancel\r\npqr, What was I thinking? Just ordering the product took
    an hour because I had to decline an endless loop of automated product solicitations.\r\npqr
    Free Offer Is A Setup - Beware!\r\nI saw an ad for 30-day risk free trial of pqr
    anti-aging cream and decided to order it.\r\n\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\nLatest Reviews:\r\nStarEmpty
    StarEmpty StarEmpty StarEmpty Star\r\nFormer Employee - Customer Service\r\nI
    worked for this company a little over 2 years ago. I admit that their advertising
    is questionable, but what's worse is their ...\r\n-- Informative Posted by Ajtheamazing1
    on 05/26/2013\r\nStarEmpty StarEmpty StarEmpty StarEmpty Star\r\nThey Suck - Eye
    cream for dark circles\r\nIt does not work. I called to cancel in mid December
    and they said they would. and yet I keep seeing they are taking money out ...\r\n--
    Informative Posted by Tmkreiger on 01/25/2013\r\nStarEmpty StarEmpty StarEmpty
    StarEmpty Star\r\nComplaint - pqr-- Complaint Posted by Jill.brott on 12/18/2012\r\nStarEmpty
    StarEmpty StarEmpty StarEmpty Star\r\nThey are a scam\r\nI am going through the
    same thing. I returned the stuff and cancel. As they said. Then not even a month
    later they took out 69.95 ...\r\n-- Complaint Posted by Blue_eye_blonde_taken
    on 12/14/2012\r\nStarStarEmpty StarEmpty StarEmpty Star\r\nReturns Only during
    Trial period! - pqr Advanced Under Eye Formula\r\nI purchased this product awhile
    ago when I saw a very convincing television advertisement about diminishing darkness,
    wrinkles, ...\r\n-- Complaint Posted by Tina823 on 11/25/2012\r\nStarStarStarStarEmpty
    Star\r\nIf You Read the Terms\r\nBIDDEFORD, MAINE -- If ANY of you people took
    the 30 seconds it takes to READ the \"terms and conditions\" box that YOU HAVE
    TO check and accept to ...\r\n-- Informative Posted by Nhall1212 on 11/12/2012\r\nStarEmpty
    StarEmpty StarEmpty StarEmpty Star\r\nCancel this product was billed for it --
    Complaint Posted by Sylviashearin on 09/30/2012\r\nStarEmpty StarEmpty StarEmpty
    StarEmpty Star\r\n- Trial offer of 90 Second InstantEffect Winkle Reducer \r\n
    serious complaint about pqr...Was calling to pay my credit card bill one day.
    Somehow I in turn got sales people for ...\r\n-- Complaint Posted by Tinawolfe100
    on 09/05/2012\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\nStarEmpty StarEmpty StarEmpty StarEmpty Star\r\nMisleading
    \"Gotcha\" company - Facial Creams\r\nI ordered a 'free 30-day-trial of this cosmetic
    product - $1.99 and 'if I'm not happy, I just have to send the bottles back'.
    ...\r\n-- Complaint Posted by Waterrat1 on 08/02/2012\r\nStarEmpty StarEmpty StarEmpty
    StarEmpty Star\r\nDoes not work - pqr -- Complaint Posted by Rdhmommy on 04/19/2012\r\nStarEmpty
    StarEmpty StarEmpty StarEmpty Star\r\nIT DOESN'T WORK! - pqr\r\nI used pqr as
    directed with no results whatsoever. I used it for the recommended amount of time
    and not only did I not ...\r\n-- Complaint Posted by Glensidegirl505 on 04/01/2012\r\nStarEmpty
    StarEmpty StarEmpty StarEmpty Star\r\ncould not use the product because it broke
    my face out they refuse to cancel my orders and are still charging my credit card
    - am/pm anti wrinkle complex spf 15\r\nAfter I received the product I tried it
    and it broke my face out the next day. I then emailed the company and called them
    to ...\r\n-- Complaint Posted by Baileytracey52 on 02/24/2012\r\nCorn!!! Not Straightforward
    and Clear\r\nELGIN -- I had ordered onlline the pqr and Juveneu anti wrinkle cream,
    gave all my details away and been charged far more than ...\r\n-- Complaint Posted
    by Maria_olah25 on 11/30/2011\r\nNot Enough Info - pqr Cream -- Complaint Posted
    by Sylviagavan on 09/05/2011\r\nDid not let me know I would have to pay for product,
    said that I would have to pay $1.99 for postage - pqr\r\npqr was advertised and
    it stated that you would have to pay only$1.99 postage they have already taken
    $69.95 out of my ...\r\n-- Complaint Posted by Me_breda2004 on 09/03/2011"
  created: '2013-07-25 05:56:55'
- author:
    name: sabyasamuel
  body: "Sabol v. PQ LLC\r\nHome \tCase Documents \tFile A Claim \tFrequently Asked
    Questions \tContact Us \tEn Espa\xF1ol\r\n\r\n    Welcome to the Sabol v. PQ LLC
    Settlement Website\r\n\r\n    SUMMARY OF CASE\r\n\r\n    A proposed national settlement
    has been reached in class action proceedings brought against PQ LLC and PQ (\u201CDefendants\u201D)
    relating to their sale or offer of products under a Risk Free Trial and/or Auto-Shipment
    Program (also known as \u201CPreferred-Customer Beauty Program\u201D or \u201CBeauty
    Auto-Ship Program\u201D).\r\n\r\n    The case is entitled Susan Sabol, et al.,
    v. PQ LLC and PQ. If you are a member of the Settlement Class, your rights may
    be affected by this lawsuit. Please read all information on this website carefully.
    The purpose of this website is to provide information about the lawsuit and proposed
    Settlement so that potential class members can decide what steps to take, if any.
    The Settlement Class is defined as follows:\r\n\r\n        All Persons residing
    in the PQ who between January 1, 2005 and March 28, 2013 paid for, and/or were
    charged for PQ-branded products, and/or were charged shipping and processing fees
    for such products, in connection with a Risk-Free Trial and/or Auto-Shipment Program,
    including but not limited to: PQ, PQ, PQ, and Orexis.\r\n\r\n    Defendants deny
    any wrongdoing and do not believe that they have any liability to the Settlement
    Class. However, all parties believe it is in their best interest to settle the
    Action under the terms of the Amended Settlement Agreement and obtain closure
    on these matters. The Court in charge of this case has preliminarily approved
    the Amended Settlement but still has to decide whether to grant final approval.
    Payments and settlement benefits will be made only if the Court grants final approval
    of the Amended Settlement and after appeals, if any, are resolved.\r\n\r\n    DESCRIPTION
    OF BENEFITS\r\n\r\n    The Amended Settlement Agreement provides for cash benefits,
    product benefits and prospective relief to eligible Settlement Class Members.
    A detailed description of all available benefits is included in the Long-Form
    Notice. You may also consult the Amended Settlement Agreement for information.\r\n\r\n
    \   LEGAL RIGHTS AND OPTIONS\r\n\r\n    If you are a member of the Settlement
    Class, your legal rights and options are as follows:\r\n    YOU MAY \t\tDEADLINE\r\n
    \   File a claim online or by mail \tSubmitting a Claim Form on time is the only
    way to get a Cash Benefit or PQ Product Benefit. \tAugust 15, 2013\r\n    Ask
    to be excluded (\u201Copt out\u201D) \tIf you ask to be excluded, you will not
    receive benefits, but you keep your rights to sue Defendants on your own regarding
    PQ products. \tJune 25, 2013\r\n    Comment or object to the settlement \tTell
    the Court why you like or dislike the settlement. You will continue to be a member
    of the Class and will be bound by the Settlement. \tJune 17, 2013\r\n    Do nothing
    \tIf you fail to either file a Claim Form or request to be excluded by the applicable
    deadlines, you will receive no benefits, but you will be bound by the Settlement.
    \t\r\n\r\n    IMPORTANT DEADLINES\r\n    (Your legal rights are affected by your
    compliance or non-compliance with these dates)\r\n    June 17, 2013 \tLast day
    to file objection to the settlement\r\n    June 25, 2013 \tLast day to request
    exclusion\r\n    July 16, 2013 \tCourt hearing on fairness of settlement\r\n    August
    15, 2013 \tLast day to file a claim\r\n\r\n    Please check this website regularly
    for updates and new developments.\r\n\r\nGilardi & Co. LLC.  Copyright \xA9 2013
    \  Privacy Policy\r\n\r\n \r\n"
  created: '2013-07-31 07:59:06'
- author:
    name: sabyasamuel
  body: " \r\n\r\n    * Login\r\n      \u2190 Back\r\n      Login with Pissed Consumer
    Account\r\n      Log In to Pissed Consumer or Sign Up.\r\n      Your email address
    or username *\r\n      Your password *\r\n      Remember me Forgot Your Password?\r\n
    \         o\r\n          o\r\n          o\r\n      show-popup\r\n    * Signup\r\n\r\n\u2190
    Back\r\nSign up\r\n- Stay informed about any comments on your review.\r\n- Write
    updates for your reviews any time you want.\r\n\r\nPlease try again later.\r\nUsername
    *\r\nE-mail *\r\nPassword *\r\nRemember Me\r\nCAPTCHATry a different image What
    code is on the image *\r\n\r\nFields marked with an asterisk * are required.\r\nPissedConsumer\r\nFollow
    us:\r\n         \r\n\r\n    * Submit complaint\r\n    * Companies\r\n    * Browse
    complaints\r\n    * Business solutions\r\n    * Blog\r\n    * Sample Complaint\r\n\r\n
    \r\nShares 0\r\n0\r\n0\r\n0\r\nabcd SCAM!\r\n\r\n    * by dianejohnson   Feb 07,
    2012\r\n    * Review #: 295255\r\n\r\n\u2190 Previous\r\n14 of 21 abcd Reviews\r\nNext
    \u2192\r\nabcd\r\nCompany \tabcd\r\nProduct / Service \tabcd\r\nCategory \tCosmetics
    and Toiletries\r\nViews \t236\r\n \r\n\r\nOrdered a sample online in November,
    2011 from abcd because their company boasts such fabulous results.\"Only pay for
    shipping\" is what this company claims\".\r\n\r\nMuch to my surprise, I received
    not ONE, but TWO jars of cream within a week of ordering\". Tried product for
    2 weeks, but didn't see any results and developed a slight facial rash after 3
    days:. I placed a call to Customer Service to cancel my \"Membership\";. Two weeks
    later I received an additional 2 jars (who in God's name can use 4 jars of facial
    cream in 2 months?) I called customer service again and was told just to return
    unused and unwanted merchandise, which is what I did,.\r\n\r\nTwo weeks later
    I received ANOTHER 2 JARS?.\r\n\r\nI contacted customer service again and was
    told that I cannot return ANY unused merchandise for a refund EVER - UNDER ANY
    CIRCUMSTANCES'.Since November 2011, my Discover credit card has been charged over
    $600,.00 from these SCAM ARTISTS. b21b52\r\n \r\n\r\n    * Useful (14)\r\n    *
    Funny (0)\r\n    * Bullshit (9)\r\n    * \u25BA\r\n    *\r\n\r\n5\r\nReport Spam\r\n
    \ Comments (11) Hide comments\r\nShowing 11 of 11 comments\r\n\r\nPlease fix the
    following input errors:\r\n\r\n    * dummy\r\n\r\nComment review as anonymous
    or Login\r\nNickname\r\nLocation Hide my location Show my location\r\nSecure Code
    CAPTCHAReload Image\r\n \r\nPost Comment\r\nmel mel\r\nJul 30  from Sydney, New
    South Wales\r\nI purchased abcd cream and luminique 90 second wrinkle cream online,
    it was under the free trial.\r\n\r\nI understood (as i read the fine print) that
    i would be charged in full for the products (unless i was not satisfied and i
    applied for a refund) and then i would be charged again every 3 months and sent
    a refill of the products. The abcd was about $80 and i opted for some extras (inc
    abcd) which came to about $139. I was told on facebook that abcd worked best when
    used with abcd.\r\n\r\nAfter i bought them i went online and saw all the scam
    websites against the company, i was so worried so i tried to phone the company
    but could not get through, i called my credit card company that night and put
    a block on my card (after they had charged me the $139).\r\n\r\nI understood that
    most people were complaining online because they got charged the full fee to their
    credit card when they thought it was a free trial, this calmed me down a bit as
    i think this is very naive, nothing is free, i myself had read the fine print
    and understood i would be charged unless i change my mind.\r\n\r\nI do not work
    for this company, i am 30 years old, i'm a legal secretary living in Australia,
    i am writing this review to share my experience with this company to hopefully
    calm anyone down who may have just signed up to the free trial with the company
    (however i note i may have just been one of the lucky ones).\r\n\r\nAnyway i got
    tied... up with a few things so forgot to follow the company up again, then a
    week later my abcd arrived and the abcd arrived the day after that (i threw out
    the packaging but i recall they appeared to come from the same address - but were
    sent separately), both packages came with the extra toner which was offered to
    me as a bonus for signing up for both products.\r\n\r\nI then went online again
    and read some more reviews where i read that the product had burnt peoples skin
    and even after cancelling the trial people had been charged numerous times to
    their credit card, i also came across the site dedicated to the lawsuit against
    the company. So i then called abcd again (quite worried at this stage) i got straight
    through to someone this time, i gave him my order number which was emailed to
    me previously, he found my account and i told him the items had arrived \"but
    my financial situation had changed\" so i wanted to cancel any future products.
    He did that for me and then said he would refund me $139 within the next 5 days,
    i said i only wanted to cancel any future orders, i was going to keep the products
    he sent me, so how come i was getting a refund? he said it was because i'd cancelled
    it within the 30 day period. I also asked if i had to cancel the abcd trial as
    i noticed they had a different phone number on their email, and the products did
    arrive separately. He advised i didn't have to and that he had cancelled both
    subscriptions for me.\r\n\r\nI was still a bit worried about what i had read so
    i kept a close eye on the credit card statements, within 2 days the refund of
    the $139 had gone into my account, the only thing i had been charged was a $1.99
    trial fee plus $4.20 x 2 which was an overseas processing fee when the amount
    came out of my account and then when it got refunded back to me. I also never
    had to sent the products back (unlike other stories i had read online)\r\n\r\nI
    have tested the products on my arm and did not get a rash, i also looked up the
    ingredients online and they all appear to be safe (that is if what they put in
    the bottles are what they write on the bottles). I'm not a scientist but what
    i read said that the abcd mostly contained ingredients found in sunscreens, and
    the abcd 90 second cream appeared safe but some people may have have an irritation
    if the product gets in their eye and they are sensitive to one of the ingredients
    (butylene glycol). The 90 second wrinkle reducer does say on the box that its
    only a temporary fix and it also came with written instructions.\r\n\r\nAfter
    the refund got processed i cancelled my card and got a new one issued just to
    be safe however i'm wondering if i have just stressed out over nothing, my experience
    is nothing like what i am reading online so I wonder what percentage of complaints
    about this company are merely about the amount they charge you as people are not
    reading the fine print properly and are assuming they will only be charged $1.99
    for the trial (which i think is their own fault).\r\n\r\nHowever, what percentage
    of complaints were ones where the client was told they had to return the product
    to get the refund but were then told the product never arrived back to the company
    (from reading the reviews it looks like you have to send it back in a new envelope
    and pay for the postage, not mark \"return to sender\" as it will never arrive
    back, but it looks like people were sending the products back \"return to sender\").
    Has the company changed their policies and is this why i didn't have to return
    anything to get a refund? What percentage of clients were in Australia like me,
    maybe the service is worse in different countries? or was i simply one of the
    lucky ones, if this is the case it's unfortunate that other people have lost their
    money.\r\n\r\nAll in all i am satisfied with the service i got, the packaging
    the products came in looks pretty dodgy but i think i will still trial them on
    my face and see how they work, i am glad i only ended up paying $10 for the products,
    but am a bit regretful of the stress that was caused from what i had read online
    and now my reluctancy to actually try the product out on my face. If it works
    though, who knows i may purchase more from the company.\r\nShow more Reply Kim
    Kim\r\nDec 04, 2012 \r\nWell, well, well. After repeatedly trying to contact this
    company by both phone and email, I just got a call from them saying that there
    was a problem with my order. *** right, there was. When all attempts to phone
    them were futile and they refused to respond to my emails asking for the order
    to be cancelled, I cancelled my credit card. And what do you know, today is the
    30th day since I placed my order for the 'RISK FREE TRIAL'(and cancelled by email
    10 minutes later). No doubt they were about to bill me for more products. When
    asked why I cancelled, I mentioned their appalling reputation and was told that
    they could not remain in business if they behaved unethically. A lot of scam companies
    seem to know how to circumvent the law and continue to trade after being exposed
    as crooks. Reply\r\nKim Kim\r\nDec 04, 2012 \r\nI am convinced the indignant denials
    of any wrongdoing by this company are made by employees/family members of the
    company. The same names pop up over and over again, many of which I suspect are
    the same person using different identities.. I have seen them claim that all criticisms
    of the product or company are made by people who are jealous of their success
    and out to destroy them. How ludicrous. Reply abcd X-Customer ! Hydroxatone X-Customer
    !\r\nAug 23, 2012 \r\nSo my sister did the Free trial with them off my fiance's
    card which she thought was just for that price. Anyway, once we were told we're
    going to be billed the extra money, soon as the shipment came, we shipped it back
    the very next day. I waited 3-4 days to call and see if they received my product,
    one guy answers te phone and he says no we didn't receive it but it sounds like
    you're being 100% true. He then proceeds to tell me that I will not be billed
    and everything is fine. Now here I am with my fianc\xC3\xA9 now going haywire
    because they billed his account and put his account in the negatives. (we only
    use the card to pay bills online). Anyway, I believe the previous posters because
    this is just insane. I shipped back the products and they weren't even USED. They
    tried to tell me to keep the Bellaplex and I would not be billed, I said *** no
    and shipped that back along with the others. I cannot believe them! I'm so pissed
    off! They better be lucky they don't have 24 hr customer service in the U.S. because
    I would definitely be giving them a peace of my mind. :( Reply Susan Susan\r\nAug
    16, 2012 \r\nI had a similar experience re: the \"risk free trial\". I did everything
    they required and spoke/wrote to their customer service numerous times, but they
    repeatedly did not follow up and my debit card continued to be charged.\r\nMy
    recent solution: I contacted my bank, disputed abcd additional charges, and discontinued
    my debit card so they could no longer add charges to it. My bank then issued me
    a new debit card, necessitating that I contact all my ongoing monthly creditors
    that utilized the previous card number.\r\nPS Also want to add that the product
    didn't work -- as a matter of fact I think my wrinkles got worse! :)\r\nPPS I
    suspect that a number of the positive comments here are from Hydroxatone people
    -- I had multiple contacts (at least 10) with their customer service via email
    and phone experience; in all cases, there was no resolve; worse, there was clearly
    evasive/deceptive behavior that did not reflect the \"risk free trial\", extended
    the time and resulted in additional charges. Reply Gapeach Gapeach\r\nJul 03,
    2012 \r\n:) I am not sure if these comments are true or someone out there selling
    other beauty creams and bash abcd. When I first purchased this item, I called
    and canceled the prescription. Customer service was extremely nice, I mailed back
    my empty jar & was refunded my money & got to keep the free jar. I now call customer
    service to place my orders, they have even given me 6 $40 off an order cupons.
    I love the product. I am a customer, not a sales person. They will probably delete
    my comment since it is a positive one. Reply that was funny that was funny\r\nFeb
    11, 2012 \r\n:grin :grin Reply No problems for me No problems for me\r\nFeb 10,
    2012 \r\nI called their customer service and they pretty much did whatever I wanted.
    You can buy abcd pretty much anywhere online and even in a few stores. Its definitely
    not a scam - -what out for ambulance chasers like the one above who just want
    to use you so they can collect a HUGE fee. Reply abcd abcd\r\nFeb 09, 2012 \r\nHi
    there.\r\n\r\nabcd offers a risk-free trial. We do this to give customers a chance
    to try our products before buying them. We are sorry your experience was not what
    you expected and we really hope you give our products another chance. Our risk-free
    trial comes with a 30 day money back guarantee. This means, if you aren\xE2\u20AC\u2122t
    satisfied with your results, you can call our customer service and return the
    products to avoid being charged for the merchandise. It is our goal that our customers
    have a positive and rewarding experience with both our products and our service.\r\n\r\nWe\xE2\u20AC\u2122re
    also sorry that we have been experiencing some difficulties with our international
    phone lines. This issue has been resolved. If you have any further questions please,
    please contact us using the information below:\r\n\r\nUSA/Canada (800) 672-2259
    (8 am \xE2\u20AC\u201C 10 pm EST)\r\nAustralia (0011) 800-2358-7491 (24 hours)\r\nNew
    Zealand (00) 800-2358-7491 (24 hours)\r\nGreat Britain (00) 800-2358-7491 (24
    hours)\r\n\r\nYou can also email us directly at FBHXsupport@abcd to let us know
    how we can help.\r\n\r\nPlease note that some mobile phone carriers do not allow
    toll free 800 numbers to the USA to connect. We suggest using a landline if you
    are having trouble with your mobile carrier. Reply DERF DERF\r\nFeb 09  from Dallas,
    Texas\r\nabcd You guys dont seem to be having any trouble your abcd number...
    you know the one where your *** unwanted robo calls are calling my cell phone
    3 to 4 times a day.\r\n\r\nOnce I answered the number to ask to be removed from
    the list, it was an some Indian Guy claiming I owed $69 to your company.\r\n\r\nGuess
    what??? I never done business with your company and I have no intention of EVER
    doing business with you. I really have no idea how you even got my number.\r\n\r\nSo
    yes in my opinion you are running a scam! :? Reply Angela Edwards Angela Edwards\r\nFeb
    08, 2012  from Halsey, Oregon\r\nHi I have filed a class action lawsuit against
    abcd for scamming customers via the \"risk free trial\" - customers who ordered
    abcd and returned the product within 30 days, but were still charged for the product
    and/or placed on \"auto-ship\" and billed further without the customer's consent.
    You can reach me direct at (413) 525-3820 or angelaedwards@charter.net for further
    information. Thank you. Reply\r\n\r\nShowing 1-11 of 11 comments\r\n \r\n\u2190
    Previous\r\n14 of 21 abcd Reviews\r\nNext \u2192\r\nTo the Top\r\nSubmit complaint\r\nMore
    abcd Reviews\r\n\r\n    * abcd took my money and it was he'll to get them to stop!\r\n
    \   * Mrs\r\n    * Overcharge\r\n    * Former employee\r\n    * Misleading ad\r\n\r\nAll
    abcd Reviews \u2192\r\n \r\nRecently discussed\r\n\r\n    * Company\r\n    * Industry\r\n
    \   * Overall\r\n\r\nJul 30\r\nabcd\r\nabcd SCAM!\r\nJul 29\r\nabcd\r\novercharge\r\nMay
    01\r\nabcd\r\nabcd CLASS ACTION LAWSUIT FILED!\r\nFeb 20\r\nabcd\r\nabcd\r\nNov
    29, 2012\r\nabcd\r\nSent 2 jars of abcd and put unwanted charges on my credit
    card. I'm returning unused jar.\r\nAug 05\r\nLarry Hahn\r\nthis is a scam\r\nAug
    02\r\nBH Cosmetics\r\nDo not order from BH Cosmetics\r\nJul 30\r\nabcd\r\nabcd
    SCAM!\r\nJul 30\r\nBH Cosmetics\r\nBH Cosmetics - DO NOT BUY!\r\nJul 29\r\nabcd\r\novercharge\r\n8
    minutes ago\r\nNewsmax\r\nSean Hyman-Money Matrix Insider Loser!\r\n9 minutes
    ago\r\nUPS\r\nUPS Workers steal your items.\r\n10 minutes ago\r\nBest Buy\r\nAnti-Virus
    Scam\r\n25 minutes ago\r\nGNC\r\nGNC-I work there, check this out for the shocking
    truth\r\n46 minutes ago\r\nUSHIP\r\nUSHIP SCAM!!!\r\nNew Companies\r\n\r\n    *
    Jordan Valley Medical Center\r\n    * Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide Inc\r\n
    \   * Rhino Pest Control Las Vegas\r\n    * Sugarbears Pampered Pets\r\n    *
    Jack Cuvos Wrestling Warehouse\r\n    * Furniture Barn\r\n    * One Pissed SHOPPER\r\n
    \   * Urban Tactical Supplies\r\n    * Ocean Coral & Turquesa Resort\r\n    *
    Johnny Rockets\r\n    * Pioneer Credit Counseling\r\n    * Amarpal Singh\r\n    *
    Abortion clinic in port elizabeth\r\n    * Abortion clinic in mafikeng\r\n    *
    Hardy Plumbing\r\n    * poolstoreoutletcom\r\n       \r\n\r\nAll New Companies\r\nTopics
    of the Moment\r\nSecond Chance Banking Peters Equipment Universal Mobile Homes
    Nude Underage Adult Affair Weatherchannel David Zargari Underage Girls Nude Visalus
    Scam Eskaton Pops Farm Fitness Contracts Trafficwavenet Bestway Rent To Own Naked
    Walmart Rushcard Marvin Windows Complaints Springleaf Financial Tiffany Dials
    Virool Ameren Power Back On Babies R Us Registry Davids Paint And Tile Kloster
    Contracting Jade Optical Boutique\r\nOur Blog We in Press Research\r\n \r\n\r\n
    \   * Submit complaint\r\n    * Companies\r\n    * Browse complaints\r\n    *
    Business solutions\r\n    * Featured Reviews\r\n    * Blog\r\n    * FAQ\r\n    *
    Recalls\r\n    * Our Research\r\n    *  \r\n    * We in Press\r\n    * Consumer
    Reviews\r\n    * Consumer Tips\r\n    * Consumer Resources\r\n    * Consumer Advocacy\r\n
    \   * Complaint Letters Sample\r\n    *  \r\n    * Customer Satisfaction Index\r\n
    \   * Privacy Policy\r\n    * Terms of Use\r\n    * Contact Us\r\n    * About
    Us\r\n    * Latest News\r\n    * Report a bug\r\n    *  \r\n\r\nPissed Consumer
    \xA9 All Rights Reserved\r\n         \r\nReport a bug\r\n close\r\nRead next abcd
    complaint\r\nabcd CLASS ACTION LAWSUIT FILED!\r\n\r\nHi.I have filed a class action
    lawsuit against abcd for scamming customers via the \"risk free...\r\n\r\n close\r\nSelect
    Reason\r\nSexual Content\r\nViolent or Abusive Content\r\nSpam\r\nInfriges my
    Rights\r\nPlease select the Reason \r\nSend Report Cancel\r\n close\r\nThank you!\r\nWe
    will review your report\r\nMessageclose\r\nOk\r\n close\r\nYou were reading a
    complaint about abcd.\r\nFiling a new complaint about\r\nThe same company Another
    company\r\n close\r\nReport a bug\r\n \r\nHelp us help you!\r\nWe are trying to
    be better!\r\nYour email\r\n\r\nWe need your email address to contact you if we
    need more bug information. Please provide a valid email address. We do not add
    this email address to any kind of mailing list or post it on the web\r\nSummary*\r\n\r\nA
    one-line description of the bug\r\nDescription*\r\n\r\nWhat were you trying to
    accomplish and what is the result?\r\nError Messages\r\n\r\nAny errors or messages
    you may have received\r\nCancel\r\n \r\n close\r\nThank you!\r\nWe will review
    your report\r\n"
  created: '2013-08-09 06:13:30'
date: '2008-07-23 20:13:17'
title: Opentype Com Vs. Std and some words on Bembo Book

---
