---
author:
  name: guifa
  picture: 112214
body: "I happened to be rereading the Shark thread and thought it might be interesting
  to try to do a design experiment making a would-be (since as far as I know Cyrillic
  never used anything resembling fraktur or other blackletters) Cyrillic font based
  on my previous fraktur work.  I've seen a few examples of Cyrillic frakturs but
  very modernized, more like a updated blackletter for English (where the x would
  be an x, instead of an r with a tail, etc).  So, I figured I'd make an attempt at
  what Cyrillic fraktur would have been back in the day.  Although I realize the almost
  impossibility of doing this for the capitals (though certainly an interesting experiment),
  I figured I'd go ahead and see what I might come up with for lower case.\r\n\r\nNot
  being a cyrillic user, I'd really like to hear people's comments, both on what works
  and what doesn't and maybe other avenues for exploration."
comments:
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: looks good!
  created: '2008-07-24 22:25:55'
- author:
    name: somol
    picture: 113622
  body: nice experiment. go on.
  created: '2008-07-24 22:30:46'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "\"Cyrillic never used anything resembling fraktur or other blackletters\"\r\n\r\nnot
    true, the original <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Image:Azbuka_1574_by_Ivan_Fyodorov.jpg\">cyrillic
    ustav</a> is very much a black letter. of course it doesn't look like latin blackletters,
    but that's beside the issue.\r\nsome of these forms are very confusing, the ka
    looks like a na, the la like a pa, the ma like a ta, &c. "
  created: '2008-07-25 01:05:03'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Paul, this is what I love about Typophile, all I have to do is say \"As far
    as I know ...\" and someone will correct me within minutes :)\r\n\r\nAs you guess
    I did mean to imply \"fraktur or other blackletters in the style of Latin ones\".
    \ But I did use that ustav to make a few changes (but not substantial yet) to
    the lowercase.  Added uppercase, where possible I used the Latin equivalent, but
    I still had to invent quite a few, which just like in Latin some of which are
    only marginally related to the normal form but I think they work.  \r\n\r\nAgain
    comments are appreciated.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que
    apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier
    Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-07-25 05:46:16'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: Any idea to match the figures when they are scaled down a bit ?
  created: '2008-07-25 08:03:06'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Alessandro, what do you mean exactly?  Are you talking about the numbers?
    If so, yeah, I'll eventually do those.  The base fraktur was designed to go with
    a serif font and that's what the punctuation, roman numerals, etc, come from in
    the sample text.  I'm going to expand it all soon as I'm fleshing out this face
    a lot more than i originally intended.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea
    tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz
    Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-07-25 08:51:44'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Yes, Matthew, I meant the numbers and their proportion.\r\nEnjoy working
    on your experiment."
  created: '2008-07-25 12:22:07'
- author:
    name: jt_the_ninja
    picture: 115340
  body: "Looks nice, but I think someone used to the traditional letterforms would
    be upset/perplexed by some of your letters (I'm speaking of the miniscules here...the
    capitals look good, mostly). For one, your ts looks more like an u than the u
    does. For another, your k looks like an n, and the n, in turn, looks like it was
    designed by someone used to the Latin alphabet, which might be a bad thing. \r\n\r\n\r\nYou
    know, if you just switched the u and ts characters, it'd work a lot better, I
    think, as well as making the k definitely a k and the n definitely an n...\r\n\r\nJust
    figured I'd put in my two cents, since I took five semesters of Russian in college.
    \r\n\r\nAlso...Russian Cyrillic isn't the only Cyrillic. Check out the Cyrillic
    subrange of any Unicode font. There are characters for other languages who use
    a modified Cyrillic. You might look into modifying your letters accordingly.\r\n\r\n\r\nBut
    like I said, it looks cool. I've toyed around with blackletter/fraktur versions
    of Cyrillic in my notebooks myself.  \r\n\r\nPeace,\r\nJT"
  created: '2008-07-27 03:15:28'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "JT, thanks for all the comments.  I know Russian's not the only language
    for Cyrillic, but it's the simplest subset of the alphabet.  A lot of the others
    are more or less copy and paste operations.\r\n\r\nIt's interesting that several
    people are pointing out the k looks like an n.  Maybe it's 'cause Greek lacks
    a c character and thus the sequence ic wouldn't happen, but my test version of
    this same thing in Greek was found to be surprisingly readable by my Greek friends.
    \ I'll have to investigate other ways of doing it as the zhe won't work just chopping
    off the left.  Tho maybe if I use a top like a t it might distinguish itself more
    (also of note, the i+c formation seems to be the original method, not that original
    means best of course).  Slight change but it also gives it a short ascender that
    might help distinguish it and definitely goes better with the capital.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cyrillic_fraktur_k_comparison_4362.png]\r\nHere's
    a more modern-like n, definitely more readable although it loses its connexion
    with the capital (which was the inspiration for the miniscule).\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cyrillic_fraktur_n_comparison_3573.png]\r\nAs
    for the ts and and the u, I'm a little hesitant to swap them, if only because
    the ts is visually essentially the same in all other styles to Latin Y and that's
    the shape it has in the Latin version of it, and I'd like to keep the tails of
    the u and shch the same.  That said though, here's a third version (with the other
    two for comparison) that I think might work better as ts, and then I can perhaps
    leave u as u.  What do you think?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cyrillic_fraktur_tsu_comparison_6481.png]\r\nOn
    a side note, I'll have the Greek one posted as soon as I can come up with an acceptable
    uc Omega.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos
    cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-07-27 06:39:16'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i think the ka still looks too similar to the na. and the crossbar on the
    na is sloping the wrong direction, which can make it easily confused as an i.
    i would do a bit more research into cyrillic if you really want to make this viable.
  created: '2008-07-27 12:10:51'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: "I think the \u041B/\u043B should always follow the shape of the \u0414/\u0434.
    It's because they derive from the corresponding Greek capitals. This may be difficult
    with an open top...\r\n\r\nLooking into script forms should give you some insight
    into how the forms can be made less ambiguous. For instance, a lowercase \u0433
    becomes a sort of backwards s in cursive. So, for your blackletter \u0433, I suggest
    breaking the present join and connecting the top of the vertical to the right
    end of the horizontal with a thin stroke, making a sharp seveny shape."
  created: '2008-07-27 16:44:22'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Paul\r\n\r\nAzbuka 1574 by Ivan Fyodorov.jpg. Is this the eg. that is considered
    blackletter? \r\n\r\nOther than the mass of black (for which Blackletter is named)
    it shares none of the characteristics of any of the four sub catagories of Blackletter:
    textura, rotunda, schwabacher or fractur. Granted, blackletter was a derivative
    of Carolingian but I still don't see the angularity and rigid penshifts.\r\n\r\nIs
    this something being taught somewhere? Did I miss something? \r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-07-29 02:01:05'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Okay, new version posted, with also a test version of the Greek and samples
    in various cyrillic- and latin-based languages.  The letters in crimson I'm not
    convinced of their viability, and will probably update them strongly.\r\n\r\nCerulean,
    great suggestion, and actually I was able to use the same form for \u043B to make
    a far nicer lowercase A, so that makes three characters sharing that shape.  Is
    the t now more or less what you were thinking of?  My only Russian friend (who
    I only used to check and see if the letters are readable) didn't even seem to
    notice it, and it looks a bit nicer spacing wise.\r\n\r\nPaul/JT: how is the \u043A
    now?  I think now I might have made it too much and it might stand out too much.
    \ And just to JT: I've added in some of the other Cyrillic letters (the first
    six lines on the Unicode charts which I think covers all current-use native-Slavic
    Cyrillic letters).  Some of those capitals were interesting, and although I'm
    sure they're mostly unreadable, I suppose I can take comfort in the fact that
    most latin fraktur capitals are unreadable to English speakers :-)\r\n\r\nI've
    also finally come up with a name for the font, \xC6lbrocan.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-07-29 04:21:59'
- author:
    name: jt_the_ninja
    picture: 115340
  body: "\u041E\u0447\u0435\u043D\u044C \u043B\u0443\u0447\u0448\u0435, \u0441\u043F\u0430\u0441\u0438\u0431\u043E!
    I like the new k and n (although if you wanna get technical, the capital n looks
    like a Latin capital H anyway, but I'm not gonna ask you to change your capitals...even
    though the Z, which is that cool Fraktur S, looks nothing like the Cyrillic Z.
    \r\n\r\nGood job with the non-Russian Cyrillic characters too. I don't speak any
    languages which use them, but they look like they fit in well.\r\n\r\nSo when
    do we get a \"trial\" version to download and test for ourselves? \r\n\r\nPeace,\r\nJT"
  created: '2008-07-29 15:52:26'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "\x7FWell, capitals of course with fraktur like fonts have little to do with
    their uppercase.  So in general, I went with the system of, \"if normally in Antiqua
    they look the same, so be it in fraktur\", although I recognize sometimes that
    means one might get some odd switch ups (like the capital el looking exactly like
    an N when it might not have otherwise been).  Hence, I'm always open to suggestions,
    the capitals are pretty fun to make.  \r\n\r\nAs for a trial version, once the
    semester is over (sad, isn't it, I should be working on my completely-unrelated
    term paper), I'm going to set up a site for it and offer the whole thing as a
    free-for-non-commercial use font and host it for people who want to use it for
    websites (although it's not that easy to read on screen, printed out it really
    shines) that way I can always make sure they have the most up-to-date version.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-07-29 20:03:56'
- author:
    name: jt_the_ninja
    picture: 115340
  body: "Cool; I'll be sure to download it (for non-commercial use, of course)\r\n\r\nOne
    final note: If you've ever seen a Cyrillic script T, you know it looks very little
    like a print one (like a pi with a third leg in the middle)...alternate character,
    perhaps? \r\n\r\nPeace,\r\nJT"
  created: '2008-07-29 21:39:36'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Certainly possible once I start doing the OT features.  One nice thing I've
    found is while I do need to do some kerning, the nature of blackletters makes
    it far less necessary (except in Greek, jeez I swear there is no good default
    spacing)\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos
    cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-07-29 23:28:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Dude, nice.\r\nYou keep this up, OK?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-30 16:03:24'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Funny you posted here hrant, I was actually going to e-mail you this weekend
    asking for a critique of the Armenian version (started it yesterday afternoon),
    since I have a feeling I'm going to absolutely butcher the capitals.  I don't
    suppose you have made/seen any examples of blackletter armenian?\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-07-30 18:42:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nice you hear of your continuing efforts in Armenian.\r\n\r\nThe thing is,
    being an anti-Latinization guy I'd like to see\r\nsome sort of eventual disclaimer,
    even if it's a token effort.\r\nAmericans and even Russians don't really need
    to worry\r\nabout assimilation the way Armenians do. This stance is\r\nbased partly
    on things like the monstrosities seen here:\r\nhttp://www.armsite.com/software/\r\nOne
    of them is even called Frankenstein...\r\nNadine would appreciate the candor I'm
    sure!  :-)\r\n\r\nIn any case please do send me any samples.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-30 19:12:45'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Yikes, that frankenstein one does look terrible.  Is it even readable?  I
    would think it's way too high contrast to be even readable by the most liberal
    sense of the word.\r\n\r\nI had actually though that Armenian and fraktur would
    be a good fit since they both go far better with long descenders and ascenders.
    \ I still wish I had taken a picture of this beautiful calligraphy of the Armenian
    alphabet at a restaurant I would eat at in Pozuelo by the train station (although
    the fact that a D\xF6ner Kebab shop is called Ararat is suspect heh).   I dunno,
    I definitely see how it could be seen as Latinization, but I (personally at least)
    see fraktur/blackletter as almost being its own script until itself especially
    when traditional forms are used, hence I tried to stay as true to fraktur roots
    as possible.\r\n\r\nHow \"bad\" is the ArTarumian Africkian on that page?\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-07-30 19:22:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> they both go far better with long descenders and ascenders.\r\n\r\nThat's
    a good point. I do think it's doable, just not at all easy.\r\nAs usual in type
    design the elusive ingredient is always Subtlety.\r\n\r\nAfrickian* doesn't seem
    Latinized to me (even though there might very well be a Latin font that served
    as its inspiration). Mostly it seems to be based on the laughable habit of taking
    a basic graphic element and force-feeding it to a script. You know, the sort of
    thing that a graphic designer would do... Graphic designers train poodles; we
    handle anacondas.\r\n\r\n* I think the design is supposed to look African... Although
    there's\r\nthe Armenian last name \"Afrikian\" and maybe that's the connection.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-30 19:44:10'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "I've been toying with the idea of designing a Russian blackletter, whenever
    I have about a month of free time (i.e., not for years probably). This is a great
    effort in an akin type, especially from someone with no Russian background. I
    only have two semesters of Russian behind me, but I think I can help you. My main
    suggestion is to base the minuscules off of cyrillic script (handwriting) style
    characters, not the roman characters you always see in modern serifs. I don't
    know how much you know about this stuff, but cyrillic italics are still based
    off of the handwriting letterforms rather than the roman-modern-type ones, so
    you can look at a handy cyrillic italic to learn what these letterforms are. In
    a font like this, very kindred to handwriting, I expect the forms immediately
    to be of the handwriting type, and it's jarring to see them based off the serif
    forms. Probably the letter that throws me off the most is the em; it reads as
    a te, because a handwritten te looks exactly like that em. After that, the te
    strikes me more as a 7 than a te, and could even be mistaken for a che. The zhe
    seems too busy, maybe. The pe would read better if it looked exactly like your
    latin m. The de would work better in one of two forms: like an \xF0 with no crossbar,
    or else like a single-story g--both of these read clearly as a de for cyrillic
    readers. The ve could be based on an e, with the outstroke coming back up to the
    bowl--that's a form I've been thinking should work for my possible blackletter.
    And your ya ought to be derived from the ah, because it started out as an ah with
    an i attached before it. This would fix the chirality issue it has. Other than
    that, your lowercase works very well, and would be really interesting to read
    in, if I could read Russian for any respectable length of text. Heck, I suppose
    it's still pretty interesting, even at my amateur fluency.\r\n\r\nThe capitals
    are mostly a ton of fun. Occasional ones look a bit awkward, like the Zhe. The
    En isn't working at all; it needs to have two vertical lines and a crossbar, because
    \ the \"h\" form isn't recognizable to cyrillic readers as equivalent with the
    \"H\" form. The cyrillic En derived from the Greek Nu, which of course looks exactly
    like our N. (If I may use a term from high-school biology, the two are an example
    of convergent evolution, like the similar shapes of insect and bird wings, even
    though the two evolved along completely different paths.) The El and Em are probably
    usable, though I'd be more at ease with them if they had no stems (like your lowercase
    el doesn't). The Te also, while probably legible, could do with some big honkin'
    serifs of some fashion on the crossbar.  Those serifs are where the \"m\" form
    of lowercase te came from, and in handwriting the big serifs are very common.
    A cursive Te is three vertical strokes, topped by a horizontal one. The Pe would
    follow the Te's design.\r\n\r\nI may have given you more information than you
    ever plan to use, but hopefully this has been useful to you. I hope you keep it
    up--I think you may be the first to try this (this statement awaits correction),
    so you're a pioneer in it!"
  created: '2008-07-31 05:22:56'
- author:
    name: jt_the_ninja
    picture: 115340
  body: "I was thinking similarly, Number3Pencils, about the script/type distinction,
    but as this is a print font, I wasn't too disturbed by it. I would like to see,
    as I mentioned, glyph variations, or even an entire Italic version (an italic
    gothic?) based on the handwriting versions, though.\r\n\r\n\r\nPeace,\r\nJT"
  created: '2008-07-31 16:27:34'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: 'Noticed a mistake: "The pe would read better if it looked exactly like your
    italic <strong>n</strong>," that should read. Also, I''d consider a ghe that looks
    like a backwards s (with chirality properly reversed, of course). And your be
    could work well with a delta-shaped form--that form is common in handwriting,
    and it''s the one I learned when I learned the cyrillic cursive alphabet. It seems
    odd at first, but it does read as a be. Maybe your ka shouldn''t go outside the
    short-letter box above <cite>and</cite> below. And your ef is pretty sweet, but
    it has chirality issues on the left side.'
  created: '2008-08-01 03:03:58'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Thanks everyone for the number of comments and suggestions.  I'll work on
    all of them and see how they go (no other way to see which works better).  \r\n\r\nIf
    I give \u0442 the shape of m, what shape then would I give \u043C?  The handwriting
    samples I found showed that \u043C would get a bar over it, but that's definitely
    something I associate strongly with (pure) handwriting (S\xFCtterlin) as opposed
    to blackletter/fraktur.\r\n\r\nRe the ef, I still need to go in and touch up curves
    on that and others, the basic design at the moment as had more priority (I'm assuming
    you're referring specifically to the slant on the curve rather than that it's
    disconnected no?).  I'll take a break at some point to go in and really polish
    up each letter.\r\n\r\nI'm going to work a couple of alternatives for some of
    these and then make a page where you can swap out the letters dynamically and
    test the alternates.  Then I (and y'all) can take a look at how the various alternates
    work in tandem.  I'll do that next since i need to take a break from the Armenian,
    as hrant mentioned, it's a good bit of work to get fraktur and armenian to unite,
    possible, but jeez my first draft sucks.\r\n\r\nAlso, a first draft (emphasis
    on first) of the site is up with the draft version of the font used in the PDF
    posted above (which is lazily made, you can definitely see some alternate characters
    placed in control character slots etc) for download/embedding:\r\n\r\nhttp://coruna.elahorcado.net/\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-08-01 03:36:55'
- author:
    name: jt_the_ninja
    picture: 115340
  body: "Actually, it's the lowercase handwritten t that gets a bar over it....I'd
    have to upload a sample of writing, and I don't have a scanner here...\r\n\r\nYou
    know what, lemme try this:\r\n\r\n<em>\u0422\u0442 \u041C\u043C \u0416\u0436 \u041A\u043A
    \u041B\u043B \u041F\u043F \u0411\u0431 \u0414\u0434 \u0427\u0447 \u0413\u0433
    \u0417\u0437</em>\r\n\r\n\r\nIf the above showed up as italic, you'll get a picture
    of what we mean. Italic Cyrillic characters are typically based on the handwritten
    forms, at least in the lowercase. \r\n\r\nIn a few fonts: [[http://img171.imageshack.us/img171/206/cyrillicitalickx7.png]]\r\nTimes
    New Roman, Arial, Adobe Caslon Pro, Myriad Pro\r\n\r\nPeace,\r\nJT"
  created: '2008-08-01 13:12:14'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Hrm, that's going to be a hard distinction to make in blackletter, since
    it's using weight distinctions in places that would be uniform in blackletter.
    \ \r\n\r\nThis is the table I was looking at that had a variety of forms: http://www.pitt.edu/~armata/cyrillic.jpg
    \ Maybe the descending variant of \u0442 would work better?  How common is it?\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-08-01 17:37:59'
- author:
    name: jt_the_ninja
    picture: 115340
  body: "Hrm...I've never encountered some of those forms, although my Russian instructor
    did show us a variant of lowercase t which looked a bit like a Greek tau (\u03C4).
    \r\n\r\nI also don't see \u0444 there, although it's hard to mistake. \r\n\r\nA
    lot of Cyrillic cursive letters look alike, since they're based on what I'll call
    the English cursive i-without-a-dot shape - <em> \u0438, \u043B, \u043C, \u0448,
    \u0449, \u0446 </em>. The \u043B and \u043C, as well as \u044F, have little curly-cue
    strokes before them, though, to differentiate them. You can sorta make that out
    on the image you posted. I do agree it'd be difficult to \"Frakturize\" a cursive
    \u043C though...\r\n\r\nHere's my horrible Paint rendition of how you might approach
    some \"italic\" Cyrillic Fraktur: [[http://img212.imageshack.us/img212/6466/paintfrakturzk5.png]]\r\n\r\nBtw,
    what would you title the font? Maybe something on the border between the Slavic
    and Germanic, like Vlad? \r\n\r\nPeace,\r\nJT"
  created: '2008-08-01 18:12:46'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "I'm calling it \xC6lbrocan.  Brocen is the old English equivalent of fangere
    (\xAB fratus \xAB fraktur) and since I'm breaking other alphabets other than just
    latin, so to speak, I added on the prefix \xC6l (al- in modern English or omni-
    from the Latin).  Brocan's the participle form of brecan, so we have \xC6lbrocan
    \u2014 all broken/fractured (but in the sense of broken shaped letters rather
    than non-functioning).  That and I really like my \xC6 ligature. :)\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-08-01 19:32:38'
- author:
    name: jt_the_ninja
    picture: 115340
  body: "Heh...I like that. All-broken :D\r\n\r\nBtw, re: your signature. My Spanish
    is really rusty (so much for 5 years of study); would you mind translating it?\r\n\r\n\r\nPeace,\r\nJT"
  created: '2008-08-01 19:57:14'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Ack, by the way that should be \u201C<em>Brecan</em> is the old English equivalent...\u201D\r\n\r\nIt
    means \"The future is a line so fine that we barely realize that we ourselves
    paint it\u201D, it's from a short film by a friend that won a few awards over
    in Spain.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos
    cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-08-01 20:11:39'
- author:
    name: jt_the_ninja
    picture: 115340
  body: "Ah....it was the syntax there that threw me, I guess \u2014 \"...we realize
    that paint it we ourselves.\" \r\n\r\nPeace,\r\nJT"
  created: '2008-08-01 20:58:20'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "That chart you were referring to was a fairly confusing one. It shows lots
    of cursive forms that I've never encountered before, and it's also done in what
    appears to be a marker - hardly nice for something that should have precision.\r\nWhat
    I meant by chirality issues on the ef is that the two bowls are mirror-symmetric,
    not rotationally symmetric, and that leads to stress on the left side for which
    a scribe would have to turn his pen some sixty degrees. I like when the pen angle
    is pretty constant throughout a font. I also noticed pen angle changes in the
    ya, Ya, Zhe, and now that I look for more, also the Eh, Ef, and maybe Ze (top
    part). For the lowercase em, I recommend you just use the el, and add an extra
    hump--that's usually the done thing, I believe.\r\n\r\nI looked at your Greek,
    too. I think the form you have for your upsilon now actually reads as a good kappa
    (strange, huh?). And the nu form would work as an upsilon, I think--I don't recall
    ever seeing an upsilon with a stem. For a nu form you'd have to come up with something
    new (no pun intended). Something without curves, maybe. Your Sigma is very confusing
    for me; do you have a precedent for that form? Also, for the same reason that
    form didn't work for cyrillic En, I don't think you can use the \"h\" form for
    Greek Eta. Chirality rears its head again in epsilon, Phi, phi, and omega. I love
    the texture, though, and most of the face--the lambda especially."
  created: '2008-08-01 20:59:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Chirality rears its head again\r\n\r\nChop chop!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-02 02:56:52'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: Hrmm?
  created: '2008-08-02 04:48:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/chirotrophy_4551.jpg]\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-02 05:50:12'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "If I recall correctly (correct me if I'm wrong, of course, I remember the
    discussion from a year or two ago and simplifying now a good bit), and I'm simplifying
    a good, hrant makes a distinction between type design and calligraphy, one of
    which is dependent on the movement/form/handling of the pen and the other one
    free to do more.\r\n\r\nPut (again, I think, please correct if not right) another
    way, in this case, there's nothing wrong in touching up and fixing the curves
    it does the font good, but it shouldn't be \"just\" because that's how it would
    look with a pen.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas
    nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-08-02 07:05:38'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: True. I just think that it looks distracting when the pen angle changes in
    such a calligraphy-inspired face. I suppose there's nothing inherently wrong in
    it, but I personally feel like fonts look better when they keep the same pen angle
    throughout.
  created: '2008-08-02 16:44:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it looks distracting\r\n\r\nOnly to a chirodesigner. To an actual user,
    the opposite is often true.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-02 16:48:47'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: Sounds like you've done a study where you asked layperson friends to rate
    which was more distracting. However, did you do that with blackletter? Seems like
    blackletter, being more rigid, might give you different results.
  created: '2008-08-02 16:54:13'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: Also, I just noticed that your phi could read as iota-rho.
  created: '2008-08-02 17:00:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No study, just some years of observation and introspection.\r\n\r\nBlackletter:
    since the whole style is \"distracting\" the issue becomes moot. Which again leads
    to the conclusion: why bother? For kicks? Users don't pay for our kicks.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-02 17:45:34'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "<cite> Users don\u2019t pay for our kicks </cite>\r\n\r\nEspecially when
    the font is free ;-)\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas
    nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-08-02 20:30:23'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: I guess it's down to the designer, then. As long as it's a conscious decision
    to break the "rule", then it's all right--I just wanted to point it out. And,
    <cite>I</cite> think it would look better with normal chirality.
  created: '2008-08-03 01:43:12'
- author:
    name: RAWTYPE
    picture: 109949
  body: "smal \u0434 i would mix up in a text as for all els - it works"
  created: '2008-09-11 01:34:32'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "I think this is wonderful exercise, and there is much untapped ground in
    the realm of Cyrillic blackletters!\r\n\r\nAs a Russian I found lowercase \"el\"
    \"en\" \"k\" \"u\" and \"em\" very confusing.\r\n\r\n\u043B - looks like a scripty
    \u043F\r\n\u043D - looks like a Latin \"h\" and has no relation to anything found
    in Cyrillic\r\n\u043A - looks like i\u0441\r\n\u0443 - is nearly impossible to
    recognize as anything but \u043F\r\n\u043C - looks like a scripty form of \u0442\r\n\u0446
    - looks like either \u0443 or \u0447\r\n\r\nIt took me over a minute to decipher
    the word \"\u0443\u043D\u0446\u0438\u0430\u043B\u044C\u043D\u043E\u043C\u0443\"\r\n\r\nStill,
    I think this could be a foundation of a really exquisite typeface!\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2008-09-28 19:35:30'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "My curiosity got piqued, so I did a search...\r\n\r\nhttp://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Ustav_-_cyrrilic_writing.gif\r\n\r\napparently
    Ustav is considered to be a Cyrillic <strong>uncial</strong> rather than a Cyrillic
    blackletter."
  created: '2009-12-12 22:37:58'
date: '2008-07-24 22:03:42'
title: Cyrillic Fraktur Experiment

---
