---
author:
  name: Kirs10
body: "Hello all,\r\n\r\nI've been working on a business card project and could use
  some feedback. Minuteman3 is from the first round of designs and my friend was leaning
  towards this one. The art is from a famous statue that has also been converted into
  stock art. This piece is from my combo sketches from both sources. However it is
  quite common and has been used in many other logos. The name \"Minuteman\" is not
  set in stone, there is another Minuteman appraiser in another state. The client
  is thinking of just changing the name to \"Minutemen\" but I want to suggest changing
  it to \"Connecticut Minuteman\". Minuteman16 and 17 are revised with the name change
  and new original art. I also modified (the i and the u) in the Cezanne font a little
  to make it more readable. The new minuteman is more of an icon than drawing. I thought
  he would reproduce better and be more recognizable as a minuteman. However does
  the script style of font now work with a less sketchy style of image? I've been
  looking at this a lot on my own and could really use some fresh eyes.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/minuteman3_3579.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/minuteman16_3840.gif]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/minuteman17_4560.gif]"
comments:
- author:
    name: standardlipsum
    picture: 112916
  body: I do prefer the changes you made to the Cezanne type - nice subtle changes,
    but they really do help. I think file minutemen3 is the most successful - I don't
    know if the line behind the minuteman is really needed. I would also look at maybe
    using a sans serif typeface to compliment the script title. Hope that helps in
    some way.
  created: '2008-07-25 17:16:41'
- author:
    name: TDF
    picture: 111673
  body: The Minuteman looks very clip-arty to me. That said, I think Minuteman 3 is
    better - looks like more professional clip art and suits the type treatment. If
    you're going to use a handwriting font, I'd customize any letters that repeat
    - the last 'n' is a prime candidate. Also watch the kerning in "APPRAISALS' -
    especially the RA pair.
  created: '2008-07-25 17:38:10'
- author:
    name: EileenB
  body: "\r\nI agree that 3 is the best, but overall, I feel it's too busy. IMO you
    have too many fonts and too many varied sizes. My eye leaps all over the place.
    Seven lines of text, each one with a different font and/or size?! Editing with
    an eye for simplicity may go a long way to solve this project."
  created: '2008-07-25 20:15:13'
- author:
    name: David Ford
    picture: 115355
  body: "Maybe its just me not being from america but a guy with a gun as a central
    part of a company's visual identity really makes me uneasy, feels a tad sinister
    and menacing. \r\n\r\nFar too many type sizes and shades - too busy. Looks like
    an ad in a cheap property trade magazine rather than a business card. The balance
    feels off in all of them  - eg look at number 17. Shouldn't the right hand side
    of Conneticut, Appraisals and Reliable line up? \r\n\r\nThe name and tel etc at
    the bottom of the card feel like an after thought. I don't know where the logo
    finishes and the contact details begin. \r\n\r\nI do like the 'minuteman' and
    'appraisals' typeface combination though\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-25 23:01:26'
- author:
    name: jayyy
    picture: 109661
  body: "I like 3 best. More breathing room and whitespace. \r\n\r\nthe minuteman
    graphic I am not too fond of. It makes me think literally about the minuteman
    as opposed just having more elegant text. Then you would also have some people
    think the guy can do appraisals in a minute. That would be a nice coincidence
    :)"
  created: '2008-07-25 23:03:47'
- author:
    name: Kirs10
  body: "Thank you all, I greatly appreciate your feedback.\r\n\r\nI'm posting a revised
    design but first I want to address David's concerns about an armed figure. My
    client and I discussed the impression of the minuteman holding a gun may have.
    However he really likes the tag line Fast Accurate Reliable. The minuteman is
    a strong historical national symbol, especially in New England. He represents
    the spirit and independence of the individual. That said guns certainly are a
    negative in modern society. Which is why we opted to go with a relaxed yet ready
    pose rather than a figure firing or aiming. In my first round of designs I did
    present versions with architectural elements (focusing on the real estate angle).
    My client felt that with the name Minuteman it needed to show a minuteman. He
    is considering a name change, so perhaps he will re-think the figure as well.\r\n\r\nI've
    simplified the overall design and drew a new minuteman (He still needs work).
    I also tweaked the second \"n\" so that it is not exactly like the first and thus
    appears more like handwriting. I kept the serif font, after trying many sans,
    with the name and colonial figure it just seemed too modern and out of place.
    \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/minuteman18_4614.gif]"
  created: '2008-07-28 17:55:11'
- author:
    name: David Ford
    picture: 115355
  body: "As I said - fast, accurate and reliable next to an image of an armed guy
    has menancing undertones to me - but i'm definitely NOT your target market so
    take that with a grain of salt. Its obviously not a global company and you have
    to look at who you are designing for - if you think the solution will resonate
    with New England home owners then i guess you have your answer. \r\n\r\nIn terms
    of the design i think the new version is an improvement, its less cluttered than
    the others. A couple of things i'd look at...\r\n\r\n- Generally i'd put the job
    title under Patrick's name then have a large bit of leading or even a line break
    between the job title and phone. Does the number need a preface/label? ie Mobile/Office/Home.
    Is there a website or email address too?\r\n\r\n- I don't like the gray line.
    You've now got a lot of white space that could more elegantly accomplish the visual
    seperation of logo/contact details. Seems like the logo is sitting a little low
    too, could it be nudged up? If you're still experimenting it might also be interesting
    to look at a version with the logo much smaller and maybe positioned up the top
    right corner? "
  created: '2008-07-28 22:22:28'
- author:
    name: nvhladek
    picture: 112094
  body: "I don't get a negative sense from the fact that the minuteman has a gun,
    and I want to lend support to your claim that the image evokes more of a sense
    of history and reliability than violence.  The pose you chose in this latest rendering
    reinforces this idea.  People that can't handle the historical fact that minutemen
    carried rifles need to get over themselves.  If your client is going to stick
    with the name \"Minuteman Appraisals,\" then I think you need to stick with the
    guy holding a gun.\r\n\r\nAdditionally, I think you're right about the cultural
    context of New England.  Having grown up in New Jersey, and now living in California,
    I've always been in a politically progressive context, and generally hold politically
    progressive ideas myself.  Nevertheless, now that I live in California, I've found
    many West Coast people annoyingly politically correct and considerably uptight
    about being laid back. (Before anyone gets too offended by my criticism,  mind
    you that my wife is a Californian.)  I think this business card is well executed
    and appropriate for the client's context.  As always, I'm open to dialogue and
    push back on my opinions, but sometimes West Coasters and Europeans need to understand
    the unique paradox of progressive, \"politically incorrect\" Northeasterners.\r\n\r\n--\r\nNick
    Hladek"
  created: '2008-07-28 22:34:48'
- author:
    name: mad grab
  body: "For some reason Cezanne is not working well with this piece. Also, try not
    to be so literal with the minutemen illustration. \r\n\r\nRegardless hit up Borders
    and look up some books to see how people treat Cezanne with a serif because right
    now everything its looking kinda confusing with sizes and letter spacing.\r\n\r\nI
    would try to nail out the logo first and then do the business card because when
    I try to do both at the same time I design in circles.\r\n\r\nKeep up posted!!!!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-29 08:35:11'
- author:
    name: bobbybobo
    picture: 113676
  body: "Interesting posts.\r\n\r\nCommenting on the man holding the gun.\r\nFor US
    citizen it may be a normal piece of history.\r\nBut for non-US it is different.
    We are talking about different cultures and believes, perhaps.\r\nAs non-US I
    do understand the historical influence of the figure and understand the choice.
    \r\n\r\nThe new design is an improvement.\r\n\r\nBut why the grey line?\r\n\r\nHas
    it a purpose? If not, loose it.\r\n\r\nRay\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-29 09:15:34'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"The minuteman is a strong historical national symbol, especially in New
    England.\"\r\nUnderstood, but once one says the word \"minuteman\", who but a
    child needs a picture?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-07-29 12:25:23'
- author:
    name: Kirs10
  body: "Wow, what great and interesting comments (and some really good design suggestions
    as well). I certainly didn't expect a little minuteman to stir up a debate. A
    bit of a myopic view perhaps however given the project it just may be the view
    to have.\r\n\r\nI added the line because the figure seemed suspended in space,
    it sounds like it's an unnecessary element so I'll try without. I also tried the
    figure smaller, but he started becoming an indistinguishable blob - which just
    means he needs to be drawn better and I already knew he needed more work. As for
    making him less literal, I'm afraid he might truly then become just a guy holding
    a gun. The client had envisioned his card to have a figure. When we discussed
    using other symbols (doorway, column and etc. to represent real estate) it seemed
    odd to use the name minuteman paired with a symbol other than a minuteman. And
    to dberlow's question Does it need a figure at all? No, I think not, so I'll be
    getting to work on refining the figure and trying some strictly typographic solutions.\r\n\r\nOh
    yes, and I agree with mad grab. Usually when working on logos I complete the logo
    and then move on to it's applications. This however is a start-up company that
    will be run out of his home. There will be no signage, no ads, no other applications
    (perhaps stationery for invoices at some point in the future) When I showed initial
    sketches, the client was concerned not seeing his name and contact info. Which
    is why I've been working on the whole of the card.\r\n\r\nFinally thanks again
    to you all for your thoughtful comments and suggestions. It's a small side job
    but that doesn't mean I want it to look like it's a small side job. Have a lot
    of work to do now. hopefully will post again soon."
  created: '2008-07-29 15:49:03'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "Might I suggest dropping the minuteman figure and just using the elements
    that make him a minuteman... his rifle and hat, and constructing a logo image
    out of those 2 elements? \r\n\r\nPersonally, I don't think you need the \"Fast
    \u2022 Accurate \u2022 Reliable\" on the front, but that might not preclude it
    from being used on the back. Unless this is a single-sided black & white business
    card.\r\n\r\nAlso, your title should follow the name, then the phone number (and
    email/or website if any). So, something like this: \r\n\r\n<strong>Patrick Henry</strong>\r\n<em>Certified
    Residential Real Estate Appraiser</em> - or small caps in regular weight. \r\n(123)
    456-7890\r\nphenry@minutemanappraisals.com\r\nwww.minutemanappraisals.com"
  created: '2008-07-29 18:05:15'
- author:
    name: Kirs10
  body: "Here are some revisions going off of many of the suggestions from the forum.
    To me 20 and 23 are working best so far but still aren't quite there yet. The
    minuteman, although improved still seems mmmmm... awkward? Perhaps I should try
    a simple clean silhouette? Although, as a few people did suggest he may just not
    be needed. Which is probably why my favorite so far is 23. My concern is that
    the client's name doesn't stand out. I was thinking if I could add a color (a
    deep rich red) just for his name, it might be the pop it needs.\r\n\r\nAny recommendations
    on further improvements would be appreciated. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/minuteman19_5375.gif]
    \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/minuteman20_4572.gif]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/minuteman21_5406.gif]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/minuteman22_4974.gif]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/minuteman23_5581.gif]"
  created: '2008-07-30 17:55:12'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "Oh my, you need to step back.\r\n\r\nThings are starting to feel like a ransom
    note... all cut up and pasted where ever. \r\n\r\nLets get this back to a decent
    start point. Stop focusing on the icon/image. Stop worrying about the guy's name,
    title, phone number. Stop worrying about where or if to include FAST ACCURATE
    or RELIABLE.\r\n\r\nYou need to get a consistent logo. Is it just the Minuteman
    script or is APPRAISALS also part of the logo? \r\n\r\nOnce you have that figured
    out and consistent... then you can start thinking about the tag line... which
    should be consistent as well.\r\n\r\nAfter that, then you can start focusing on
    the name/title/number... remember Hierarchy is your friend. The logo will be more
    important than the name, but the name should be more important visually than the
    title and phone number. As I suggested earlier, you can do this with type styles
    and weights. Bold/Italic or Small Cap/Regular weight... \r\n\r\nI'd even lay out
    a grid to work within. You're alignment is atrocious (number 23 isn't even centered
    and it's sooo tiny, you'd need a magnifying glass to read it.) \r\n\r\nDo one
    or 2 version and print them out, looking at them as a physical proof will be extremely
    revealing than just looking at them on screen.\r\n\r\nI don't mean to come off
    harsh, but things are definitely getting away from you. You're juggling more than
    you need to and you're losing focus because of it. \r\n\r\nIt's just a business
    card, it's 2 inches by 3.5 inches... it's small; keep it that way. You'll never
    fit the Mona Lisa on it, so stop trying. Keep things simplistic, and add flavor
    with small embellishments. "
  created: '2008-07-30 18:14:40'
- author:
    name: Kirs10
  body: 'Thank you. It may have been harsh (although not really you worded it so nicely)
    but it''s what I needed to hear. I feel like I''m spinning in circles on this
    and I don''t know why. To use a sports analogy I"m trying too hard, I was swinging
    for the bleachers but wasn''t focused on the fundamentals and ended up striking
    out. I do need to step back. '
  created: '2008-07-30 18:50:21'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "I agree with Asvetic.\r\n\r\nYour bottom two are the cleanest, but they're
    still jumbled. You need to look at what's most important and set their font size
    and weight accordingly. Don't get too crazy with different sizes and weights though.
    Keep it simple.\r\n\r\nCan you cut \"fast accurate reliable\" out? I generally
    think that good companies can stand on their own without a tagline. I don't think
    anyone's going to pick a company based on a tiny tagline pasted on a business
    card. ie: \"hmm I wonder if this company is any good. Oh look! It says they're
    fast, accurate and reliable! It must be true!\" It really doesn't add much. If
    you do decide to keep the tagline, however, put it with the logo and not with
    the info for the guy - It's the company you're describing . . . not Patrick Henry.\r\n\r\nWhat
    size font are you using by the way? If it's any smaller than 8 or 9 pt. you need
    to scale it up."
  created: '2008-07-30 18:54:13'
- author:
    name: Kirs10
  body: "After reviewing what I liked and did not like about this logo I'm posting
    my latest direction. Please let me know what you think.\r\n\r\nWhat I liked was
    the \"Minuteman\" script (Cezanne with some minor tweaks to the \"i\", \"u\" and
    second \"n\". However when I set the word \"Appraisals\" I found the Cap \"A\"
    and \"pp\" distracting (awkward for this particular word). In looking at other
    fonts I was drawn to both Declaration and Dear Sarah. The new design is still
    primarily Cezanne with influences from the other two fonts. Does it read as being
    written by one hand or does it appear too piecemeal? I'm trying to achieve an
    old, hand-written feel that isn't overly formal. \r\n\r\nI'm also attaching another
    go at a design with a minuteman figure. To me he's become extraneous but it is
    what the client originally requested so I wanted to work on it a \r\nlittle more.\r\n\r\n\r\n#1\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/minuteman_t1_5932.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n#2\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/minuteman_t2_5719.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n#3\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/minuteman_t3_3474.gif]"
  created: '2008-08-05 20:10:02'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "Now this is much better. It shows that you've put thought into it, made art
    direction changes instead of just slapping together elements that seemed to go
    together. \r\n\r\nI like the direction number 2 is going, this minuteman illustration
    is nice. Course, it still feels tacked on, making me think you can get away with
    just the logotype only. I would suggest beefing up the 's's and 'r's in Appraisals,
    they seem a bit too wispy.\r\n\r\nI might suggest a font pairing of Cezanne and
    Engravers (or something similar, like Farnham), for you Name, title and phone
    number later on. \r\n\r\nAnother thing to consider would be printing methods.
    Something more hand-hewn or letterpressed would make this art direction really
    sing. Paper selection coupled with perhaps a foil-stamped logo would look awesome
    (I'm picturing an off-white paper with a Colonial Brick Red back and the logo
    gold-foil stamped) then you'll have plenty of white space to set the important
    contact info which will make it seem even more luxurious... i.e., an appraiser
    who knows his stuff and will appraise a little on the higher-end perhaps or he
    appraises quality homes. Anyway, it would equal more money for both of you. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-05 21:03:42'
- author:
    name: Kirs10
  body: "I adjusted the \"r\" and \"s\" slightly to give them more weight and I also
    worked on the positioning of the minuteman figure. I've tried the contact info
    in a few different fonts. t7 is Caslon, t8 and t10 are Engravers and t9 is Village.
    The .a versions include the \"fast accurate reliable\" tag line.\r\n\r\nAny other
    suggestions for fonts that might work well with the script would be welcome. As
    would any other suggestions to improve the script logotype itself. I'm a designer
    who loves type but not a type designer. I'm hoping I did not make any major faux
    pas in re-drawing some of the letter forms.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/minuteman_t4_6399.gif]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/minuteman_t5_6103.gif]"
  created: '2008-08-06 17:19:14'
- author:
    name: bobbybobo
    picture: 113676
  body: "I like it: t9  \r\n\r\nt8a, this one I don't like.\r\nThe text is to wide/bold.\r\nHard
    to read.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-06 18:00:37'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "Kirsten, this is what I was thinking. Engravers might have been a bad suggestion,
    sorry. I ended up using Swift for the contact info. (http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/linotype/swift_pro_virtual/)\r\n\r\nI
    aligned Patrick's Name to the center of the card before adding anything else.
    \r\n\r\nI'd also suggest printing this on an off-white stock and try to get some
    sort of letter-press effect, even if it's just a simple gold rectangle like I've
    indicated on these versions: \r\n\r\nTop is a 2 sided version, bottom a single
    sided. Font sizes: Name 12pt, title 10pt, everything else 9pt. Everything is set
    in a regular weight. \r\n\r\n<hr />\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mydeas_3893.gif]"
  created: '2008-08-06 18:09:06'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: T7 and T9 are my two favorites. I like Asvetic's two sided cards too, but
    I'd like them better with Caslon for the contact info.
  created: '2008-08-06 18:52:00'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "With Swift and Caslon... \r\n(edit: I should have drop shifted the vertical
    alignment of the parenthesis on the Caslon version. Oh well.)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mydeas2_4422.gif]"
  created: '2008-08-06 20:15:04'
- author:
    name: Kirs10
  body: Thanks everyone. I appreciate all your comments. Asvetic I love your idea
    of the 2-sided card, it's quite nice and elegant looking.
  created: '2008-08-07 14:48:52'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "I hope I wasn't stepping on any toes, and I'll be happy to relinquish my
    files to you if you'd like, Kirsten. Just contact me through my profile.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-07 15:08:08'
- author:
    name: Kirs10
  body: My toes are feeling just fine. We are visual artists, at times it's just a
    better way to communicate an idea by showing it. I know sometimes that is considered
    a no-no on the forums though. Just heard back from my client who is very excited.
    He still wants to get in the "fast, accurate, reliable" line and we need to iron
    out the legal details of the name (does it have to include the LLC designation
    in the logo?) But we are in the final stretch. And again thank you all for your
    ideas, your input was a true benefit.
  created: '2008-08-07 15:24:54'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "I'm glad I could help. You did all the hard work though, and it sounds like
    there's still more work ahead. Good luck. \r\n\r\nIt would be interesting to see
    the final printed cards, especially if you use more traditional letterpress techniques
    when printing. Please share your final design with us when completed. "
  created: '2008-08-07 15:40:17'
- author:
    name: Kirs10
  body: "No new designs. The client is busy creating the llc. and then we'll proceed.\r\n\r\nPentagram
    has launched a new series called Green Patriotism using a minuteman figure. Just
    thought it was interesting.\r\n\r\nhttp://blog.pentagram.com/2008/07/green-patriotism-1.php\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Patriot_Poster_01_3781.gif]"
  created: '2008-08-21 18:38:07'
- author:
    name: David Ford
    picture: 115355
  body: Only in america could that tone work. It makes me want to flush the toilet
    11 times and leave the lights on all day just to rebel against the stupid military
    sentiment.
  created: '2008-08-21 21:05:39'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: You know. At first glance I saw the <a href="http://www.generalmills.com/corporate/brands/brand.aspx?catID=61">friendly
    green giant</a>. If these are on moving vehicles I hope people get a few chances
    to read it.
  created: '2008-08-21 21:20:47'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "<cite>Only in america could that tone work. It makes me want to flush the
    toilet 11 times and leave the lights on all day just to rebel against the stupid
    military sentiment.</cite>\r\n\r\nSurprise, Surprise... the British hate Patriots. "
  created: '2008-08-22 05:11:51'
- author:
    name: bobbybobo
    picture: 113676
  body: "Nothing wrong with patrotism, but some americans take it over the edge. Unfortunately.\r\nAnd
    no, I'm not British.\r\n\r\nSame here regarding the color though. Looks like a
    tiny soldier kids play with. "
  created: '2008-08-22 06:39:17'
- author:
    name: David Ford
    picture: 115355
  body: "<cite>Surprise, Surprise... the British hate Patriots.</cite>\r\n\r\nI don't
    hate patriots, I just don't understand what they, guns and assault vehicles have
    to do with global warming.  Surely they need to be fostering understanding of
    the issues amongst the younger generations- dredging up horrible world war two
    propaganda posters with the 'we've been through this before' message is a far
    too detached and insular approach to a modern, complex and global issue. \r\n"
  created: '2008-08-22 19:49:52'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "Patriotism is the cornerstone to the birth of America. The ultimate unifier,
    as we fought for our independence from British rule. Most Americans understands
    the intrinsic history of what being a Patriot is... and it's not only being a
    soldier on the war front. It's an idea, a belief that when unified against something
    much bigger than you, you'll still have a chance to defeat it.\r\n\r\nObviously,
    the campaign is geared towards Americans, but Patriotism isn't solely an American
    idea. It's just ingrained stronger here. \r\n\r\nI think the concept is strong,
    Global Warming is a beast bigger than us and it'll take a unified front to defeat
    it, but where the concept loses strength is that it is America-centered. Perhaps
    if following the war idea (which is a tired idea) they should have looked to the
    World Wars with Allieds, and made Global Warming the Axis of Evil."
  created: '2008-08-22 22:14:18'
- author:
    name: David Ford
    picture: 115355
  body: "What world wars have america fought without the allies? \r\n\r\nThe 'axis
    of evil' is a modern-day Bush coined term used to describe north korea, iran and
    iraq...it was the basis of american validation for invading Iraq. If you seriously
    think that portraying global warming as Iraq/NK/iran is a valid foundation for
    a successful, modern campaign against global warming then you are utterly deluded,
    even in america.\r\n\r\nYou say that americans intrinsically understand patriotism,
    but judging from what you have written i disagree entirely - you don't even have
    a basic grasp of the facts - just a dumb 'grab your gun' guttural reaction.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-22 23:02:20'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "Weird ... I thought patriotism had been replaced with the term extremism
    ... or is that reserved for people from other countries?<br />\r\nAnyway ...we
    digress.\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic Design Australia</a>\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-22 23:40:06'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "David, you're entitled to your opinions. Hell, I don't even know why I'm
    defending Pentagram's work, I didn't design it. \r\n\r\nEither way, the current
    discussion should stop. Unless it pertains directly to the original post's critic
    of Kirsten's Minuteman Logo and Business Card, this side conversation is unfair
    to Kirsten.\r\n\r\nIf anyone would like to continue an open discourse on Pentagram's
    Green Patriot work, feel free to start a new post under General Discussions. "
  created: '2008-08-23 01:22:21'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "Hey Kirsten, whatever became of your final design on this before we got sidetracked?
    \r\n\r\nA little updated on progress? "
  created: '2008-09-04 04:45:07'
- author:
    name: Kirs10
  body: "Not yet, unfortunately. My client is busy getting his ducks in a row, taking
    the final exams for his certification, completing his understudy experience and
    registering the name. I should probably be getting my ducks in a row looking for
    printers. I'd like the final piece to have a certain feel, almost a hand crafted
    quality. My usual printer is good, but typically does slick 4/c work. \r\n\r\nAnd
    I didn't mean to hijack my own thread by posting the green minuteman. I just thought
    it was interesting the sudden popularity of a localized historic figure. I also
    found it interesting/surprising that a firm with Pentagram's resources would resort
    to using the standard clip art that I too had started with. And I am so appreciative
    to all the people who pushed me through their postings. Thanks to everyone's suggestions
    I am happy with the uniqueness of the design."
  created: '2008-09-04 16:31:20'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "Sweet. \r\n\r\nSpeaking of your unique minuteman. I just noticed a gap between
    the end of \"Minuteman\" and your illustration and then how super tight it is
    on the other side of the illustration and \"Appraisals\". It's even more apparent
    in my versions which are just tracings of yours. Bump your image to the lift a
    little to even the alignment between the words. "
  created: '2008-09-04 16:41:29'
- author:
    name: David Ford
    picture: 115355
  body: 'To be fair, i didn''t even know what a minuteman was till i read this thread.
    At the very least you''ve educated a naive brit! '
  created: '2008-09-04 22:32:20'
date: '2008-07-25 16:47:56'
title: minuteman logo

---
