---
author:
  name: penn
  picture: 115502
body: "I've been working on designing a logo for myself as a freelance designer. I
  originally got the idea while tweaking my initials in various fonts. I just came
  across this board and am wondering what other people think of it. Thanks\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/plg-logo_06_4680.png]\r\n\r\nI
  was playing around with the idea of adding a paintbrush or pencil or pen to the
  logo here:\r\n\r\n(<em>bowel-movement-like images of old logo concept removed for
  less scrolling</em>)"
comments:
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: loose the artwork and stay with the name if its not copywrited, research
  created: '2008-07-25 21:57:14'
- author:
    name: jayyy
    picture: 109661
  body: "The colors I do not like. Past that I feel the concept can read so many ways
    it makes you work too hard to derive meaning. So I would stay well clear of the
    literal pen and ink graphic references.\r\n\r\nI am confused as to why it is symmetrical?
    Is it because the shape as whole represents an ampersand? I see the 'P' and the
    'i' but after that I feel the rest is erroneous. "
  created: '2008-07-25 22:41:25'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "well, my initials are plg. Thats where the left side and the white or lighter
    grey part comes from. so blue: P / white - light grey: L / dark grey: g / yellow-green:
    i (ink)\r\n\r\nI don't necessarily need every part of the logo to be understood
    right away. I sort of like the idea of it being a puzzle to figure out . . . obviously
    I don't want it to be SO ambiguous as to be convoluted though. "
  created: '2008-07-26 15:30:58'
- author:
    name: mad grab
  body: "not all people like to solve puzzles like you do! \r\n\r\nI agree w/ dan
    research the name it is quite nice."
  created: '2008-07-28 02:16:53'
- author:
    name: nvhladek
    picture: 112094
  body: "I dislike that you're making the letters into a person, and the different
    versions with the pencil and brush forms evoke a sense of lumpy, malformed tails
    or oddly shaped bowel movements.  The circle seems forced and tacked on.  I don't
    mean to be mean-spirited or disgusting; this is just what I see.\r\n\r\nAs for
    your contention regarding design puzzles: some reveal themselves as \"a-ha!\",
    others obfuscate with \"huh?\", and still others repulse with \"what the hell?\"
    \ If you're insistent that your designs are puzzles, then I'm in between \"huh?\"
    and \"what the hell?\"\r\n\r\nI agree with the other posts, however, that your
    concepts (\"penn & ink\" and \"plg\") are brimming with expressive potential,
    and I am curious and excited to see what directions you develop as your research
    progresses.\r\n\r\n--\r\nNick Hladek"
  created: '2008-07-28 23:00:12'
- author:
    name: jayyy
    picture: 109661
  body: With the Pen and Ink written below, you are implying that the graphic above
    represents this. So I was looking for a 'P' and an 'I' but I found so much more.
    Now, when you said about your initials being PLG that made way more sense. But
    it is still confusing because people will not draw that meaning unless you spell
    it out for them.
  created: '2008-07-29 00:35:48'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "I thank each of you for your honest opinions. They've helped me gain a better
    perspective on this. My favorite part was also the name; my name being Penn, it
    seemed to be the perfect name for my design company. Sadly, however, after doing
    a little research on the name, I came up with a few other conflicting organizations
    / companies.\r\n\r\n1. William Penn University's literary magazine is called Penn
    & Ink http://www.wmpenn.edu/Academics/DivisionsAreasofStudy/Humanities/English/PennInk/tabid/161/Default.aspx\r\n2.
    There is a publishing company called Penn & Ink publishing http://pennandinkpublishing.com/\r\n3.
    Pennandink.com is registered to Penn & Ink communications http://pennandink.com/\r\n4.
    Similarly, if you search on google penn and inc (note the inc not ink), there
    is another design site coming soon under that title. (Even if it is crappy design,
    it's still got a similar title and similar vocation as an organization) http://pnidesign.com/\r\n\r\nIt
    seems my title is dead in the water. If you guys don't think that these companies
    are reason enough to give up the name, I have a question about domain names. I
    checked the domain: www.penn&ink.com and nothing came up, but I'm wondering if
    having an ampersand in a web address is possible. Is it? \r\n\r\nOnce again, thanks
    guys for all your help."
  created: '2008-07-29 15:33:12'
- author:
    name: nvhladek
    picture: 112094
  body: "Wow.  pnidesign.com.  What a train wreck.  It might be worth reworking your
    name in order not to be associated with that ... creative venture.\r\n\r\nLet
    us know what you decide / develop.\r\n\r\n--\r\nNick Hladek"
  created: '2008-07-29 15:54:54'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "okay, so no it's not possible to have an ampersand in a domain name. But
    I did find that pennandink.net and pennandink.org are not registered names . .
    . so maybe a possibility. I'll continue to mull over the name and see if anything
    else hits me.\r\n\r\n@nvhladek Haha, yes . . . a creative venture indeed."
  created: '2008-07-29 16:09:49'
- author:
    name: pica pusher
    picture: 111287
  body: "PLG seems like a good way to go. Too bad about Penn&Ink being taken already.\r\n\r\nBut
    I would be <em>very</em> careful about the monogram you're creating. Some of the
    forms I'm seeing in those logos are suggestive of human anatomy, in ways I'm pretty
    sure you did not intend."
  created: '2008-07-29 19:47:08'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: 'Well, as clever as Penn & Ink is... it''s kinda old timey sounding. How bout
    getting with the times Penn, and coming up with a name like DigitalPenn, PixelPenn.
    You know something strong and powerful, that''ll help you get that deep market
    Pennetration (sorry, couldn''t help myself).  '
  created: '2008-07-29 20:56:02'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "@pica heh, yes I was aware of the resemblance to unsaid anatomy when I first
    started experimenting with this design. I'll be sure to keep it in mind in further
    sketchings though. \r\n\r\n@Asvetic the problem with names like digitalpenn and
    pixelpenn is that there isn't really anything called a digital pen or a pixel
    pen . . . so the play on words is a bit weaker. I also like the \"old timey\"
    feel that penn&ink has; it sits better with me than a more modern approach. All
    that said, I do appreciate your suggestion. It opened up a different side to the
    name that I hadn't thought about.\r\n\r\nI'll also be posting soon some of the
    ideas I've been playing around with."
  created: '2008-07-29 21:29:37'
- author:
    name: David Ford
    picture: 115355
  body: "I actually really like the name penn&ink. It has a robust, no bullshit feel.\r\n\r\nI
    think the whole digital/pixel penn thing is very cheesy...1992."
  created: '2008-07-30 01:02:48'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: Thanks for your thoughts David. I agree with both of them.
  created: '2008-07-30 01:53:16'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "Hey, I was just trying to think OUTSIDE the box here. You specifically pointed
    out how there were at least 4 uses of Penn&Ink already... making it NOT original.
    \r\n\r\nBut, it's your name and your business. I'll bow out of this post because
    it's clear I'm not welcome with my ideas. Sorry, I wasted my time. "
  created: '2008-07-30 02:37:21'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "Yeah, it's clear everyone hates your opinions. You clearly aren't very good
    at taking criticism or at reading through each part of a post.\r\n\r\nquoted from
    earlier:\r\n<em>All that said, I do appreciate your suggestion. It opened up a
    different side to the name that I hadn\u2019t thought about.</em>"
  created: '2008-07-30 04:00:16'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "Apologies for the stream of images in advance. These are the few new logo
    ideas I've been playing around with. I won't say anymore about them, I'd just
    like to get some gut reactions first.\r\n\r\np.s. I've decided to stick with the
    name penn&ink and ignore the other organizations. They're not really big enough
    I think to deter me from a name I like so much.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pennink-1_5713.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pennink-2_3461.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pennink-3_6164.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pennink-4_4262.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pennink-5_4095.jpg]"
  created: '2008-07-31 02:11:35'
- author:
    name: tearsforsappho
    picture: 115158
  body: "I really like the name, although I cant give you any compelling reasons why.
    \ However, I can critique the logo.  I like the idea behind the first attempt,
    but agree with some of the earlier posters.  However, I do like the color combination,
    without the blue.  The greyscale and chartreuse work for me.\r\n\r\nFinally, I
    like where you are going with the cropped ampersand in the second set of images.
    \ However, I would apply your earlier color scheme (without the blue.  if you
    need another color consider something else) and I'm not sure about the circle.
    \ It doesnt feel like it belongs to me.\r\n\r\nI'd reallyreally like to see that.\r\n\r\n:)"
  created: '2008-07-31 02:36:12'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "Here's with the previous color scheme (minus blue) and dot removed:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pennink_19_6740.png]"
  created: '2008-07-31 03:39:44'
- author:
    name: tearsforsappho
    picture: 115158
  body: "I like these.  Is that a lightlight peachy pink in the first example?  if
    you are going to go with that (which i dont mind at all), how about warming up
    your grey a little?  Additionally, I do like the crop here, but I was liking the
    other crop you had going on more.\r\n\r\nOtherwise, I also am partial to the example
    with the white background.  Perhaps warm up the white a smidge?\r\n\r\nI'm nuts.
    \ I know.\r\n\r\nOverall, I live the upper right logo.  I could really see that
    as a good graphic element as well."
  created: '2008-07-31 04:01:25'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "Here's with the other cut of the ampersand and the background grey and white
    warmed up a scoche. Do they need more do you think? What about placement . . .
    this has been the placement for this version before, but I'm considering moving
    the ampersand all the way down and pushing the name over to the right (similar
    to the ones above).\r\n\r\nI appreciate the comments you've been making on color
    Katelynn. (I hope you don't mind I use your real name. Referring to you as tearsforsappho
    didn't seem right in the context.) They've really helped and I'm liking where
    this is going. I'll make a few more comments about what I've been thinking after
    I get more people's reactions too.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pennink-9_6093.png]"
  created: '2008-07-31 14:28:54'
- author:
    name: nvhladek
    picture: 112094
  body: "I really like this new direction.  It accomplishes so much more with so much
    less, especially compared with your first treatment.\r\n\r\n--\r\nNick Hladek"
  created: '2008-07-31 15:00:41'
- author:
    name: David Ford
    picture: 115355
  body: "You get some really interesting shapes when cropping the ampersand. Just
    a thought - you could use different crops of the ampersand as secondary identity
    imagery. Back of the business cards - even different from card to card, watermark
    of the letterhead, back of the envelope...\r\n\r\nOr even (and i know a lot of
    people will say you shouldn't do this, but i would definitely explore it)....
    do it for your primary identity - keep the palette and text of your mark consistent
    but maybe the ampersand symbol could have different crops from piece to piece?
    Would give the whole identity a freshness and dynamic feel. You could even dump
    the ampersand from the logo and just use it as a secondary element.\r\n\r\nJust
    some thoughts anyway"
  created: '2008-07-31 16:57:01'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "I actually like your idea of playing around with the cropping of the ampersand.
    I've always liked the idea of keeping either a mark or color palette consistent
    and then manipulating the other elements; like you said, it gives everything a
    much more dynamic feel and keeps people interested in the icon (which is always
    a good thing). The one thing to be careful of is changing too much too often so
    that it's not recognizable anymore.\r\n\r\nThe thing I like most about these crops
    of the ampersand is that they both contain traces of a \"P\" and an \"I\". Both
    letters are perhaps a bit more visible when the ampersand is moved down and cropped
    like it was in the first set of the current color palette.\r\n\r\nThanks for the
    thoughts."
  created: '2008-07-31 17:39:11'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "The cropping works better for me as well. More subtle and it makes more sense.\r\n\r\n
    - Lex"
  created: '2008-07-31 21:39:59'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: Thanks for the comments guys. I'm happy with this new direction. Now I have
    a question about fonts . . . I'm looking for any suggestions you guys might have
    for fonts that would pair well with Didot (the font used in the logo). I'm thinking
    something sans-serif for possibly body text on a website, or contact info on a
    business card . . . things like that.
  created: '2008-08-01 19:08:39'
- author:
    name: yuzgen
    picture: 112300
  body: New series look fresh. The big ampersand directs the eye to "penn&ink" beautifully.
    Top right of the last four pieces is the one I like best. Didot is too fragile
    for small sizes. You could try narrowing the right side of the rectangle to the
    left and pulling "penn&ink" to the right a bit.
  created: '2008-08-01 20:42:02'
- author:
    name: LamaKova
    picture: 115548
  body: "I\u2019d get rid of the dot above the i letter in Penn&ink, and would design
    the & sign so it will \u2018carry\u2019 the bigger dot to \u2018complete\u2019
    this \u2018missing\u2019 dot. I think\u2026 :-)"
  created: '2008-08-02 01:50:57'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: "I like the cropping of the ampersand ... \r\n\r\nhave you considered rendering
    the logo in pen and ink  ... \r\nan ink rendering of a didone would add some personality.\r\n\r\nA
    ruling pen is so much fun to use.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.johnnealbooks.com/prod_detail_list/13\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-02 02:21:16'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "@LamaKova As of right now, the dot has been done away with. I'm having a
    bit of trouble picturing what it is you're suggesting I do with the \"&\" sign.
    Is it that I design it so that the piece the dot was originally floating above
    (the top of the \"I\") have a ball end instead of the flat top? Or am I way off?
    I'm interested to know what you meant.\r\n\r\n@bjharvey I've always been interested
    in trying new types of pens and writing instruments, so naturally I'm interested
    in your idea. Of those on that page that you linked, which would you recommend
    most?\r\n\r\nThanks for the suggestions."
  created: '2008-08-02 04:56:41'
- author:
    name: LamaKova
    picture: 115548
  body: "If it is still relevant: \r\nI didn\u2019t see the traces of the letters
    \u201CP\u201D and \u201CI\u201D in the cropped ampersand. \r\nWhen you added this
    round shape (\u2018ball\u2019, \u2018dot\u2019) to the ampersand, It conflicted
    in my opinion with the counter shape of the cropped ampersand.\r\n\r\nWhat I meant
    was:\r\nMake a connection between those two round shapes so you\u2019ll get a
    black dot and a white dot (by changing the shape of the ampersand counter to be
    more round).\r\nLower the white dot a bit (in a diagonal line).\r\nYou can use
    this ampersand design in the name: Penn&ink, but get rid of the dot above the
    letter \u201CI\u201D in ink.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pennandink_4446.JPG]"
  created: '2008-08-02 06:46:23'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: "i was fortunate to sit in on a workshop with Paul Shaw at Typecon NY, and
    he suggested the ruling pens.\r\n\r\nI have this one\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/95_30_thumb_4014.jpg]\r\n\r\nand
    another one from a different site. (can't recall the site).\r\n\r\nbeyond ruling
    pens ....\r\n\r\nthere are dozens of great instruments that produce a variety
    of results, from brushes\r\nto steel pens to cut pieces of bamboo. Different paper
    will also give you dramatically different results.\r\n\r\nSome of the calligraphers
    here at Typophile (<a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/user/6065\">Michael Clark</a>
    or <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/user/14650\">Stephen Rapp</a>) could probably
    give you more specific suggestions.\r\n\r\nalso, <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/user/7730\">Josh
    Scruggs</a> has an excellent <a href=\" http://26symbols.com/?p=39\">post</a>
    about a tool he made from Dr. Pepper can.\r\n\r\nand finally, at most bookstores,
    there are great books on lettering and calligraphy, and quite a few of them come
    with tools and tutorials. It's a nice skill to develop.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-02 07:59:19'
- author:
    name: David Ford
    picture: 115355
  body: 'I remember seeing a christmas card from an agency called ''and advertising''.
    It was die cut in a way that would allow you to construct a three dimensional
    ampersand. Was very clever and uber cool. Will have a look in the ideas box at
    work on mon and see if i can find it for you. '
  created: '2008-08-02 13:54:29'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "@lama Thanks for the sketch and clarifying. Interesting idea. I'll play around
    with it and see what I come up with. Thanks :)\r\n\r\n@bj Thanks for the tips
    on writing instruments. I'll definitely experiment with handwriting this. No telling
    how well it'll turn out though. At the very least it'll be good practice for me.\r\n\r\n@david
    A 3D ampersand?  Very cool. I'm interested to see what that looks like! "
  created: '2008-08-02 17:36:47'
- author:
    name: das1010
    picture: 115547
  body: 'I was just on the Hoefler & Frere Jones site and they recommend using Gotham
    as a complimentary font to Didot. '
  created: '2008-08-02 18:08:52'
- author:
    name: tearsforsappho
    picture: 115158
  body: "My my.  I really do like how those came out.  Sorry, I was a space cadet
    for a few days, and forgot to check back.  The top two really stand out to me.
    \ \r\n\r\nI saw that you were considering changing the crop, and i really dont
    think you need to.  I like the vertical placement of the ampersand, and it think
    the positive and negative space work really well together in that sample.\r\n\r\nAs
    far as a pairing font, I'd have to agree that a nice sans would be good.  After
    the strong contrast of Didot, it could be a nice place to rest your eyes.  I had
    just been on H&F J's site, and saw that too!  Try it, see how it looks.\r\n\r\nI
    dont mind at all, you arent the first to call me by name."
  created: '2008-08-03 18:34:08'
- author:
    name: CharmingMan
  body: "I like the amphersand in itself.\r\n\r\nbut i dont like the concept you have
    of cropping it to form a P and I. First of all it took me a while to get it and
    secondly its too contrived and fussy.\r\n\r\nI would explore some completely new
    ideas"
  created: '2008-08-03 19:42:27'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "@das1010 \r\nThanks for reminding me! I had forgotten that they suggested
    compatible fonts. I do like Gotham too, but unfortunately don't currently own
    it. Not sure if I'm wanting to spend 100 bucks on it :) I think I'll look around
    for some similar fonts first.\r\n\r\n@Katelynn\r\nThanks for your support and
    helpful comments.\r\n\r\n@CharmingMan\r\nI'm not exactly cropping the ampersand
    in order to form the P and I. It's more of a nice little detail or surprise that
    is hiding in the logo. It's not important to me that people spot them right away.
    Thanks for the concern."
  created: '2008-08-04 01:39:36'
- author:
    name: das1010
    picture: 115547
  body: "Fair enough. I hear ya on the money thing. I found that Akzidenz Grotesk
    has some similar characteristics and is something you may have available. \r\n\r\nCheck
    out Avenir as well. However, I am not sure if it follows together as well."
  created: '2008-08-04 15:21:56'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "@das\r\nThanks for all the font suggestions. I actually don't have either
    of those either (guess I need to beef up my font library). Maybe I'll just get
    Gotham . . . I've been looking at it for a while now anyway.\r\n\r\nHere's a few
    of the latest iterations too. I moved the larger crop of the ampersand, and standardized
    the location of \"penn&ink\" in all of them (in case I decide to alternate crops).
    I also included a different color variation that maybe could be used with a gloss
    on paper. It's very light, I know, so it probably won't be my main identity. But
    I like it for secondary, almost subliminal, uses. (Inserting it in places where
    the reader/visitor won't necessarily <em>need</em> to see it.)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pennink_03_5373.png]"
  created: '2008-08-05 15:19:35'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "Again, I'd go with the bottom versions since the \"PI\" of the ampersand
    gets lost in the top row.\r\n\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2008-08-06 03:38:47'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "I agree with Lex. But I'd also try to use the same colour in the penn&ink
    lettering for the ampersand as it is in the cropped version to connect the two.
    Just for an experiment. If it doesn't work I'd stick with the last version you
    posted and stop. Because it's already a finished logo. Much better than anything
    I've seen for some time.\r\n___________\r\n<em>Robert Koritnik</em>"
  created: '2008-08-06 22:58:13'
- author:
    name: Matt9302323
  body: "The original logo is much too phallus.  Its what I thought of right away.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ll_5390.jpg]"
  created: '2008-08-11 17:16:45'
date: '2008-07-25 21:06:03'
node_type: forum
title: Self Promo Logo

---
