---
author:
  name: Ricardo Cordoba
  picture: 110715
body: http://www.webmonkey.com/blog/The_Future_of_Web_Fonts_Looking_Brighter
comments:
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "Are major foundries researching solutions? If they come up with a free solution
    would the bragging rights and inherit clients from the bragging rights be enough
    recompense? Could foundries not research a solution and sell the solution to different
    companies to implement in their browsers?\r\n\r\nWho is more responsible to find
    a solution the browser company or font foundries? (not that i think anyone is
    inherently responsible to find an answer but we as designers are customers to
    both the foundries and the browser companies, and neither have provided a viable
    solution for a problem with their product). Maybe it is the web designers' obligation?"
  created: '2008-07-30 05:26:08'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "We don't need that many new fonts to really help out.  For aging fonts, some
    foundries could gift two or three fonts from their collection to the web world
    for this type of embedding.  Surely every foundry has a few good fonts that just
    frankly don't sell.   Or even some good ones that are actually fully usable as
    part of a collection.\r\n\r\nMost web browsers can make fake bold and italics/oblique,
    which is about the extent of font families the web has ever used (and I think
    iirc in CSS you can control the oblique angle too).  Just releasing, say, Univers
    at a regular weight would enable designers to use (fake) bold and italic on websites
    when needed for emphasis, but would also allow users to preview the font and then
    maybe investigate the full collection.  Any designer of course knows that you'll
    want to buy the actual italic or bold font because obliquing only goes so far).\r\n\r\nPlus,
    you'll always have OFL or CC licensed fonts which are often times of pretty decent
    quality.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos
    cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-07-30 05:47:38'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Webmonkey is still around?
  created: '2008-07-30 06:02:10'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: <a href="http://www.clagnut.com/blog/2166/">The article by Richard Rutter</a>
    that is referenced at Webmonkey is the one worth reading. He suggests that embeddable
    fonts present a new licensing opportunity for font vendors. He may be right, and
    I believe EOT is the way to make it happen. See my comment on his blog.
  created: '2008-07-30 06:57:25'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>He suggests that embeddable fonts present a new licensing opportunity
    for font vendors. </cite>\r\n\r\nThat's exactly the model I suggested in my <a
    href=\"http://opentype.info/blog/2008/04/19/font-face-survey-results\">webfonts
    survey article</a>. Though the survey showed, that the web designers are not overly
    excited about it yet. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>He may be right, and I believe EOT
    is the way to make it happen. </cite>\r\n\r\nEOT is clearly the best solution
    from OUR point of view as type designers or font vendors. But we shouldn't wait
    until EOT is someday supported in all major browsers. If we only think about the
    protection  and not about the wishes of the users, we make the same mistakes as
    the music industry.\r\nIt is foreseeable that in 2009 all major browsers will
    have webfonts support: Font linking for Safari, Firefox and Opera and EOT for
    Internet Explorer. This feature will be used, so we better have a license model
    ready by then. \r\nEOT might be good in the long run, but a combination of font
    linking and EOT support might be necessary until then. \r\n"
  created: '2008-07-30 09:29:37'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Webmonkey is still around?</em>\r\n\r\nI think it was gone for a while,
    cuttlefish -- I remember reading something on Wired's website about webmonkey
    coming back (maybe a couple of months ago)."
  created: '2008-07-30 23:15:49'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"But we shouldn\u2019t wait until EOT is someday supported in all major
    browsers.\"\r\nWe HAVE to wait \u2014 Why wouldn't we?\r\n\r\n\"... we make the
    same mistakes as the music industry.\"\r\nWe can't make the same mistakes as the
    music industry \u2014 they provide a digital file (a rare parallel), but it requires
    no \"composition\", and no \"arrangement\" is required... only volume control
    and this does not radically change the tune... So, when people say, \"it's just
    like music\", I laugh, musically.\r\n\r\nAnd, when people say the fonts are not
    installed in the system, I say they lie. But mostly, when people don't understand
    that the reason I don't like embedding, is because I don't want my intellectual
    font property used in the seriously inferior world of the web until the typographic
    functionality accumulates to compose type well, (or of course, unless I'm paid
    up-front and in full). \r\n\r\nJust look around. GEEZE is http://billhillsite.com/ugly,
    or /what!? \r\n1. Underweight rules, feed 'em. \r\n2. OS figures in an all cap
    headline, drop 'em.\r\n3. Dark Grey type on a dark grey background.\r\n4. 8 \xBD
    x 11, comes out looking like 8\xA9x11. \r\n5. small caps in the first line that
    are light and narrow.\r\n6. descenders cut off by graphics, ouch.\r\n7. word space
    wider than leading is tall, kan u rede it?\r\n8. Are some of these fonts obliqued?\r\n9.
    Can an initial drop cap get uglier than if it's aligned lower than the following
    text?\r\n10. Enclosed, what is the crap obscuring the type?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/SadBlogType_3484.png]\r\n11.
    I'm viewing this site on a 22 inch monitor, it barely fits and does no scaling
    to the window...\r\n\r\nI have yet to see a site with embedded fonts that is more
    than simple pour-'n-puke quality. You can see at Bill's site, clearly what happens
    when you try to go farther.  Typography is not just having fonts. Fonts not having
    enough typography, (not to mention common ground in enabling software), is just
    not going to work for all users and uses, as a standard should.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-31 13:02:12'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "It works for me.\r\n\r\n<em>1. Underweight rules, feed \u2019em.</em>\r\nQue?\r\n<em>2.
    OS figures in an all cap headline, drop \u2019em.</em>\r\nNope. What \"figures\"?
    Where?\r\n<em>3. Dark Grey type on a dark grey background.</em>\r\nNope. Could
    be your browser color settings David.</em>\r\n<em>4. 8 \xBD x 11, comes out looking
    like 8\xA9x11.</em>\r\nNope. It works on my system. I get a proper 1/2 glyph.\r\n<em>5.
    small caps in the first line that are light and narrow.</em>\r\n\"ADAPTIVE LAYOUT\"
    No, sorry. No small caps there. \r\n<em>6. descenders cut off by graphics, ouch.</em>\r\nNope.\r\n<em>7.
    word space wider than leading is tall, kan u rede it?</em>\r\nNope, the leading
    is wider than the word space over here man. Very readable.\r\n<em>8. Are some
    of these fonts obliqued?</em>\r\nThe style sheet specifies oblique, but as you
    can see from my screen dump I'm getting genuine Calibri italics here.\r\n<em>9.
    Can an initial drop cap get uglier than if it\u2019s aligned lower than the following
    text?</em>\r\nCome again?\r\n<em>10. Enclosed, what is the crap obscuring the
    type?</em>\r\nA rendering problem at your end. I guess it would be your browser's
    doing.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bill_hills_blog_5103.gif]\r\n^
    Internet Explorer\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bill_hills_blog_firefox_4020.gif]\r\n^
    Firefox\r\n\r\nIt's amazing. Web designers and typographers complain no end about
    Internet Explorer. For Bill Hill's site it's Firefox that screws it up worse.
    IE does a comparitiviely good job of it.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-07-31 16:48:09'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>We HAVE to wait \u2014 Why wouldn\u2019t we?</cite>\r\n\r\nBecause
    we can already work out solutions which work with font linking. \r\n\r\n<cite>
    So, when people say, \u201Cit\u2019s just like music\u201D, I laugh, musically.</cite>\r\n\r\nFonts
    are not like music. But the similarity is that the music industry first saw the
    web as a huge threat instead of a huge possibility. They know better now. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-31 17:22:35'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "I see what you mean about the dropped cap. That bit doesn't work for me either.\r\n\r\nBut
    the figures in the all caps headline. No, sorry, it must be the font your user
    agent chose to render the page in. With the specified font you get lining figs:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bill_hills_4733.gif]\r\n\r\nI
    think most of the problem with that page is the proprietary MS formatting, so
    it isn't really a fair test of IE versus Firefox versus Opera versus Safari versus
    Other User Agent(s).\r\n\r\nMS is not sticking to universal standards here and
    favoring its own user agent.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-07-31 17:24:50'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'I met with Bill on Monday - and he''s taken quite a bit of flack re. his
    demo site. He showed me the new version he''s working on and described the large
    stack of HTML books he purchased from Borders last week.  '
  created: '2008-07-31 18:45:08'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>Enclosed, what is the crap obscuring the type?</em>\r\n\r\nIt's the white
    letters of the word Blog which have wrapped unexpectedly."
  created: '2008-07-31 19:41:18'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>and described the large stack of HTML books he purchased</em>\r\n\r\nI
    hope he got some about CSS too. And please remind him to test his site on other
    browsers. Not everyone is watching the web through IE. (In fact, he should first
    code for standards-compliant browsers, e.g. Firefox, and then add the tweaks for
    IE. That's the best way to do it, hands down.)"
  created: '2008-07-31 19:48:19'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Yep a stack of CSS books almost as big, and he does have the other browsers
    installed. I''m not sure if he''s blitzed the Mac OS partition on his mac-book
    but he''s down the corridor from a  Mac lab so he can check out the layout there
    too.  '
  created: '2008-07-31 21:26:40'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Si: Yep a stack of CSS books almost as big...\r\n\r\nMe: ... and it's not
    even 2010 yet! I thought for sure it'd take that long to get real. Tell Bill we
    don't need to increase the size of the display type, leave that for the text!
    If possible, this helps confine the users composition destroying acts to type
    mods that do help...good luck!\r\n\r\nMe: We HAVE to wait \u2014 Why wouldn\u2019t
    we?\r\n\r\nRalph: Because we can already work out solutions which work with font
    linking.\r\n\r\nMe: Browser-by-browser embedding implementations are not \"a solution.\"\r\n\r\nMe:
    So, when people say, \u201Cit\u2019s just like music\u201D, I laugh, musically.\r\n\r\nRalph:
    \"... the similarity is that the music industry first saw the web as a huge threat
    instead of a huge possibility. They know better now.\"\r\n\r\nMe: They? Do you
    mean the 1,000's of fired music industry executives? The young bands no one can
    afford to chance? Or perhaps the veteran musicians, who have recognized that if
    they want money from their music, they must tour? \r\n\r\nMe too: Sure, the music
    industry clowned around on 'quality' for a few moments, but the difference they
    faced was nothing compared to our qualitative drop-off on the web. And we can
    tour, but...\r\n\r\nJames: MS is not sticking to universal standards here and
    favoring its own user agent.\r\nWhat good is it then?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-01 12:28:38'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>Me: Browser-by-browser embedding implementations are not \u201Ca solution.\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\nWhy
    not? This is exactly how @font-face is suppose to work. You specify local or external
    font sources and the browser will pick whatever is available and supported. \r\n\r\n<code>\r\n@font-face
    {\r\nsrc: local(\"Graublau Sans Web\"), \r\n     url(\"graublauweb.otf\") format(\"opentype\"),
    \r\n     url(\"graublauweb.eot\") format (\"embedded-opentype\");\r\n}\r\n</code>"
  created: '2008-08-01 16:56:50'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"This is exactly how @font-face is suppose[d] to work. []...the browser
    will pick whatever is available and supported.\r\n\r\nThe typeface one specifies
    with font-face must \"be installed on the computer of the person viewing the web
    page\", which is not embedding. The browser picking whatever font(s) is/are available
    and supported, is not design. And, as one can see from the \"ZEN GARDEN\" examples,
    to Mr. Hill's site, neither allows typography, just type. \r\n\r\nAlso, I hope
    you understand that this is not like music industry in many more ways than it
    is.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-08-03 12:10:26'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>The typeface one specifies with font-face must \u201Cbe installed on
    the computer of the person viewing the web page\u201D, which is not embedding.</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd
    what's the point of this sentence?\r\nHTML websites are plain text files with
    linked resources. I don't see any other way of doing this. You can't (or shouln't)
    actually embed a binary file in an HTML website. That's not how the web works.
    \r\n\r\n<cite>The browser picking whatever font(s) is/are available and supported,
    is not design. </cite>\r\n\r\nRegarding webdesign this IS design. The web doesn't
    work like a printed page and designing a website in a way that works for different
    browsers, screen sizes and user settings is actually a pretty hard design job.
    Webdesign always includes a lot of variables like font sizes, column widths or
    even font choices. As a webdesigner I would be very insulted if you don't consider
    this job and such decisions \"design\". \r\n\r\nConcerning the \"browser picking
    whatever font(s) is/are available and supported\": I just meant that it is no
    big deal to have the same font linked two times, as TTF/OTF for browsers like
    Safari/Opera/Firefox and as EOT for Internet Explorer. So the visual result would
    be identical. @font-face is designed for this kind of use, in the same way as
    the VIDEO tag should support different video formats. \r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>And, as
    one can see from the \u201CZEN GARDEN\u201D examples, to Mr. Hill\u2019s site,
    neither allows typography, just type.</cite>\r\n\r\nBoth of them are no real \"web
    designers\", so I don't see a point in picking on their webdesign skills. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-03 14:34:52'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Ralph: \"Both of them are no real \u201Cweb designers\u201D, so I don\u2019t
    see a point in picking on their webdesign skills.\"\r\nNot \"picking on their
    web design skills\", picking on their typography. You think they are not 'web
    designers'? You probably have an incorrectly narrow view of that definition in
    the context of this discussion.\r\n\r\n\"Regarding webdesign this IS design...browsers,
    screen sizes and user settings is actually a pretty hard design job...variables
    like font sizes, column widths or even font choices...\" are not enough...\r\nYes,
    there are a lot variables, and we agree that imbedded font formats, (and thus
    browsers (for the thinking thinker)), should not become a competitive field of
    typographic functionality \u2014\_that that would be detrimental to the increasingly
    shrinking universality of the page description capabilities for the 'web designer',
    is obvious... the rest of what I said, is obviously not.\r\n\r\n\"The web doesn\u2019t
    work like a printed page\"\r\nNever? ;ol. The web doesn\u2019t <em>always</em>
    work like a printed page, you're right about that. But we are talking, standards,
    so the web ought to at least be able to pretend to be a printed page, no?  Most
    of the web, in fact, behaves exactly like badly printed pages. And much of it
    behaves like badly printed and badly designed pages. Command Plus, does not change
    this, it just makes 5x possible results to test, (in paradise). \r\n\r\nj a m
    e s: \r\nI start a new list based on your far superior screen grabs\r\n1. is the
    headline really supposed to obscure the rule, sometimes? \r\n2. Should the deck
    cross a color bound, only in Firefox, or should you fire Firefox?\r\n3. Can someone
    please feed the serif text's diagonals? y and v are about to drop in both browsers!\r\n4.
    Is...  's  ....a kernable pair?\r\n5. The spacing of the text serif face in Firefox
    and Explorer, though identical, is not what has worked for the last 35,000 years
    ;) Call me Flat Earthy, but Explorer's \"H u m ans\" is the worst of an entire
    paragraph of <em>not human readability enabled</em> non-text-typography, <strong>(I
    bet it prints fine though;)</strong>\r\n\r\nI'm as all-for-an-all-audio/video/graphics/hyperlinked/non-text-based-round-earthed
    future as the next guy or gal. But in the meanwhile, typography on the web has
    got to improve. Why Mr. Hill would try to fit his gigantic ideas into a standard
    browser at all, much less a super-sized browser, when he could be making his own
    \"Reader\" solving all these problems after a single simple download... that's
    what I'd do.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-08-03 16:05:39'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: vinyl = letterpress
  created: '2008-08-03 18:10:31'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Ralf, you can embed things into the html if you want.  The only thing is
    it doesn't prevent someone from copying it once it's transfered, it just prevents
    direct linking by URL.\r\n\r\n<code>&lt;img src=\"data:image/gif;base64,xxxxxxxxxx\"
    alt=\"\" /&gt;</code>\r\n\r\nhttp://danielmclaren.net/2008/03/embedding-base64-image-data-into-a-webpage\r\n\r\nExplains
    one potential use.  Also if you want to embed signatures in an e-mail without
    needing to send an image as an attachment.  Not a hugely useful thing but it's
    available I'm sure there are niche applications for it.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro
    es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB.
    (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-08-03 21:25:13'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>Ralf, you can embed things into the html if you want. </cite>\r\n\r\nSure,
    it's technically possible. But it's really no option to force the user to download
    large resource files within the HTML. (That's what I hate about most Flash pages...)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>You
    think they are not \u2019web designers\u2019? You probably have an incorrectly
    narrow view of that definition in the context of this discussion.</cite>\r\n\r\nWithin
    the context of my post I take the freedom to have my own definition of \"web designer\".
    And I would want you to respect that. But nevermind. I won't bother you any longer
    with my narrow-minded thoughs. "
  created: '2008-08-04 07:14:27'
date: '2008-07-30 04:38:58'
node_type: forum
title: Web fonts article on webmonkey

---
