---
author:
  name: Number3Pencils
  picture: 110698
body: "Hello, everyone! I've just finished a blitzkrieg of digitization, completing
  two ASCII character sets in two weeks. The result is Solvejg (\"soul-veyg\", for
  the Scandinavianly-impaired). I welcome critique, especially considering how fast
  I blazed through the production. Attached is a PDF sample. I hope you enjoy it...even
  the song lyrics I typed in at the end because they were stuck in my head.\r\n\r\nUPDATED
  4 May 09. New PDF added (NewSolvejgText.pdf); new post written below.\r\n\r\nSlightly
  RE-UPDATED 7 May 09. After printing out the sample for myself I decided to make
  a few small changes. Flattened the bottom of the esses some, and made the roman
  t less cartoony. Replaced previous sample with SolvejgTextNew.pdf.\r\n\r\nUPDATED
  AGAIN 2 May 10. And about time: I finally finished Solvejg Black; I'm hoping to
  have this ready for distribution within the next few weeks."
comments:
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "Any takers?\r\nIt's interesting to me that not only has no one commented
    here, but no one's commented in the entire sans-serif section since I put this
    up. (Aw gosh, guys, is it really <cite>that</cite> bad?)"
  created: '2008-08-02 17:05:36'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I like this. I see more connections to earlier twentieth century style than
    Optima here. \r\n\r\nThe s (all of them, but especially lowercase roman) looks
    too wispy, especially the top - should it taper more quickly, or extend a bit
    further up, or be a bit wider, or some combination of those? \r\n\r\nThe bottom
    right of the italic d needs more weight, I think.\r\n\r\nI'm not sold on the roman
    g. The italic g is gorgeous.\r\n\r\nRoman h, n, and u might be a touch too wide?"
  created: '2008-08-03 06:30:24'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: PDF isn't displaying properly for me on Mac. Just Carson-esque garble.
  created: '2008-08-03 07:16:18'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "I don't know what to say about a malfunctioning PDF... I generated it with
    OpenOffice. I'll see if I can do something else later today. Thanks for the suggestions,
    Craig. I had figured the situation with the g's would be the other way around,
    with the italic the more dubious one. What makes you uneasy with the roman one?\r\n\r\nP.S.
    What's Carson-esque?"
  created: '2008-08-03 18:58:47'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>P.S. What\u2019s Carson-esque?</em>\r\n\r\nRefers to [[http://magculture.com/blog/?p=1209|David
    Carson's design of the Brian Ferry article in <em>Raygun</em>]].\r\n\r\n<em>What
    makes you uneasy with the roman one?</em>\r\n\r\nThe proportions seem forced into
    eccentricity. The top bowl looks like a squinting eye, very tight, while the bottom
    bowl drips down like a giant hanging tear, very loose. How would it look to enlarge
    the top bowl a bit and give more structure to the s-shaped line that comes down
    to form the right side of the lower bowl?"
  created: '2008-08-03 19:32:18'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "Nice.\r\nI changed some settings in the PDF generation window; maybe this
    one will work. The lower one is the new one.\r\nI'll try something like that with
    the g. Thanks."
  created: '2008-08-03 19:38:45'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "I worked on the s. I just made the whole thing a bit wider and more robust.
    Some better now? (Lower one is newer.)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/allpurposetemp_5855.PNG]"
  created: '2008-08-03 20:02:19'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Hi!\r\n\r\nthis is indeed a nice work,\r\nspecially when we see that you
    have made it in 2 weeks!!\r\nIt takes me months to make my characters.\r\n\r\ncool.
    And somehow it is a style up to whats in the air at the moment to my eyes, too.\r\n\r\nStefan\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-06 11:10:39'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>Some better now? (Lower one is newer.)</em>\r\n\r\nIt'd be easier to
    judge in a smaller, text setting as before."
  created: '2008-08-06 15:52:20'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "To be fair, I did draw the characters out like a year ago. I just did the
    digitization in two weeks.\r\n\r\n\"And somehow it is a style up to whats in the
    air at the moment to my eyes, too\" - I'm having trouble following this, sorry
    - but it sounds like a compliment, so thanks!\r\n\r\nI'll put out a bit of text
    with the two s's sometime today, probably. I'm about to start working on making
    the character set larger. Shouldn't take too long."
  created: '2008-08-07 20:11:56'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: Attached a pdf with some sample text. Sample text that makes me glad I don't
    have a lisp.
  created: '2008-08-07 22:51:03'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I still have the same problem with the s - too slight. Hopefully somebody
    else will weigh in on this.
  created: '2008-08-08 02:54:59'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: I see what you mean. Is it appreciably less frail? I can beef it up a little
    more, but it'd be good to know if I'm going in the right direction.
  created: '2008-08-08 03:26:20'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Nathanael,\r\n\r\nI looked at the gif embedded in the thread, showing the
    s in context. It's just light. In the overall context, the change you've made
    is infinitesimal and barely perceptible. look at that gif and how heavy the 2
    i's look on either side. \r\n\r\nThe top and bottom of s are also the lightest
    features, tapering off to 'hairline' thickness where everything else has either
    a flared stroke terminal or a horizontal feature. So the s looks like it is too
    short/small, and it also is lighter overall than the others. This is an example
    of the trickery necessary to get straight, flaring strokes to look visually the
    same weight as bowls. They can't all be the same weight in the middle. \r\n\r\nThe
    s is also one of the narrowest shapes in the lot, making it look that much smaller.
    Your r has this problem too, but it also has a standard flaring vertical stem.
    In any size less than display, I could see the r turning into an i. \r\n\r\nThe
    wide range of widths or proportions can be toyed with in display fonts, but you'll
    find as you try to use this, that text faces have a narrower range of proportion
    that still allows reading to occur smoothly. \r\n\r\nYou haven't said what this
    design is intended for. It's very interesting, as is your other work, but did
    you have a brief or purpose in mind? \r\n\r\nIn overall style, I think some things
    need to be more related: the exaggerated eyes of g, high waist of k, narrow s
    and r and some of the tapers lean in a comical, display direction. But the eyes
    of a and e, which are central shapes to a Latin design, are more conventional
    and sensible, as are the simple, classic proportions of h, p, o, i, B and W. So
    there's a dilemma: Make it all more goofy, or all more sensible and conventional?
    A brief might help with this. "
  created: '2008-08-08 04:27:26'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "I don't have any specific use in particular in mind so far--when I draw fonts,
    I tend to just come up with an idea and then sketch it out, thinking about the
    letters themselves rather than the future of the font. That's somewhat a poor
    way to approach the font, and it's resulted in some far-reaching changes in the
    past. In my sketches of Newt, the ascenders are impractically high. Most of the
    fonts I've designed are serif text faces, and such is the case with both the other
    ones I've put up here (Cyril and Newt), so I've never really had the problem of
    unclear purpose before.\r\n\r\nI think I want to make Solvejg usable for somewhat
    long text. I'm realizing that it might be a good idea to make a display version
    of it and a milder text version. But, I think I will make the g, k, s, and r as
    you mentioned work better with the (more \"sensible\") rest of the font. However,
    I'm afraid if I normalize them too much I'll lose character. I guess I'll save
    the most flamboyant ideas for the display version.\r\n\r\nThanks--it helped to
    get clearer about Solvejg's purpose."
  created: '2008-08-08 05:37:30'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "\u201CAnd somehow it is a style up to whats in the air at the moment to my
    eyes, too\u201D - I\u2019m having trouble following this, sorry - but it sounds
    like a compliment, so thanks!\r\n\r\nSorry for my English :-)\r\nI meant that
    it has a certain style. More classic, a bit handwritten (even if not exactly),
    things like that.\r\nThose things that in a certain way seem to have sweapt away
    the futuristic style move form the beginning of 2000.\r\n\r\nStefan"
  created: '2008-08-08 11:19:38'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"I think I will make the g, k, s, and r as you mentioned work better with
    the (more \u201Csensible\u201D) rest of the font. \"\r\n\r\nWell, I didn't suggest
    either direction particularly; you have a choice. But you can do some tests with
    copies of your current working file, pushing each one in different directions.
    It might help you decide which direction is the right one. It might turn out that
    the whole thing needs to be more quirky and clownish, but the best way to know
    is to try it. \r\n\r\nI don't place a higher value on \"sensible\", it's just
    a descriptive term. "
  created: '2008-08-08 15:18:49'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "I meant that I'll go in that direction because I like that direction. I think
    it would work well if I pushed it either way, but I personally would like it not
    to be too loud. The display version might stay fairly quirky, though.\r\n\r\nThanks
    for the compliment, Stefan!"
  created: '2008-08-08 23:55:35'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "I think what most surprises me is how surprisingly straight-forward it looks
    when it's small, yet zoomed in (or sized up) it shows its character.  At least
    for me when I printed it out the smaller text samples eemed quite formal, yet
    as we know the design is a bit playful.  Any way you can keep that in a single
    font rather than splitting in two (body v display)?\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es
    una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB.
    (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-08-23 09:35:06'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "It's sort of the same reason that they don't make helicopter cars. They could,
    but if the thing had to both fly and drive, it wouldn't be that great at either
    one. If I wanted a display face and a text face in one, it wouldn't be that great
    at either job. \r\n\r\nBut that's not to say that the text face will have no character.
    I'm retaining as much as I can without making it distracting. (I've started working
    on it, but other things have kept me away.)"
  created: '2008-08-24 06:38:53'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "It only took me the better part of a year, but I got around to making the
    text version of Solvejg. I haven't started the display version, but when I find
    the time it shouldn't take too long, since it'll be pretty close to what I had
    before. Meanwhile, I wonder what everyone thinks of Solvejg Text. I've attached
    a new pdf up above (NewSolvejgText.pdf).\r\n\r\nThings I've changed: I made all
    the hairlines sturdier. I widened the S and s distinctly (they look good to me
    now, but I welcome criticisms, of course). I lengthened the beak of the r, and
    made the top bowl of the g a little taller. In the italic I fixed some imbalance
    I was sensing on the bottom of the g. I also fixed various little things that
    I didn't commit to memory.\r\n\r\nHope you like it!"
  created: '2009-05-05 03:38:13'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "s still looks too slight at the top. Maybe c too?\r\n\r\nR (and P?) may be
    a bit too thick at the top.\r\n\r\nI'd rethinking the reversed contrast of upright
    Z and z - those thick horizontals really distract, to my eyes. (works fine in
    italic)\r\n\r\nI wonder what it would look like if you softened ever so slightly
    those acute corners that appear on all the italic bowls.\r\n\r\nI feel like d
    might need a tail - a \"kickstand\" to keep it from falling over.\r\n\r\nKeep
    up the good work!"
  created: '2009-05-07 21:42:15'
- author:
    name: neverblink
    picture: 113022
  body: "I like it, especially the italic.\r\n\r\nThe descender of the <em>g</em>
    might be a bit too wide as it clashes with a <em>j</em> in your text (both in
    italic as in regular, and might also clash with a <em>f</em> in italic).\r\nAnother
    thing that caught my eye was the bowl of the <em>a</em> dipping a bit too much
    under the baseline, but I see you've done the same for the <em>u</em>. It might
    also be solved with the \"kickstand\" eliason suggested for the <em>d</em> as
    that might make the <em>a</em> less low."
  created: '2009-05-08 10:00:01'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "Thanks. Eliason, I'm really hesitant about changing the stress on the Zz,
    because of something to do with my hairlines. In Solvejg I've got hairlines that
    taper away, like on E and L, but they all come from a line that's perpendicular
    to them, and I don't think I like the idea of one of those coming from an angle
    like it would in Zz. I made such a Zz anyhow. I also made a d with a kickstand,
    but I'm not sure I like it. You did, however, make me think about my Zz, which
    was a letter I hadn't thought about much, and I realized it was in fact jarring.
    I tweaked it some to try and reduce that. Here are new letters.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/allpurposetemp_4832.PNG]\r\n1:
    Old d, tweaked z with same stress.\r\n2: Old d, old z.\r\n3: d with kickstand,
    z with switched stress.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/allpurposetemp2_4340.PNG]\r\n1:
    Old Z.\r\n2: Tweaked Z with same stress.\r\n3: Z with switched stress.\r\n\r\nI've
    just noticed: I should probably bring the top bar of whichever Z I pick farther
    left. \r\nThoughts?"
  created: '2009-05-08 21:02:32'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "The standard stress is a better fit but admittedly much more boring. I'd
    like to see the reversed stress work if it can, but I think you'd still need to
    reduce the thickness of the horizontals more than you have.\r\n\r\nAbout the d,
    I'm very sorry for being unclear - it's the <em>italic</em> d that I think needs
    a kickstand! "
  created: '2009-05-08 22:57:31'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "Hm... you may have something there with the italic d. I was reluctant, but
    I suppose it does read better.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/allpurposetemp_4861.PNG]\r\n\r\nI
    made the thick strokes of the Z's a bit thinner. Looking some better now? (Top
    ones are the old z/Z)[img:sites/default/files/old-images/allpurposetemp2_3617.PNG]"
  created: '2009-05-09 02:03:05'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: All improvements. I think the Zz strokes could go even lighter.
  created: '2009-05-09 03:09:23'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: 'I''m back again, this time with six styles instead of two: Display Roman,
    Display Italic, Text Roman, Text Italic, Bold Roman, and Bold Italic. A new PDF
    is up at the top: "SolvejgInJuly.pdf". Enjoy, hopefully! Thanks for any feedback.'
  created: '2009-07-31 07:16:44'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "(bump)\r\nAnyone? Thoughts?"
  created: '2009-08-05 19:08:11'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "Hi!\r\n\r\nI believe I'm getting close to done with this font. But before
    I talk business with people, I want to get opinions on how it looks, so it's not
    just my one set of still fairly inexperienced eyes going over it. So, I've attached
    a new pdf (SolvejgDecember) up top for review. PLease let me know what you think
    of pretty much anything about the font. In particular, the most recent changes
    are in kerning and the letters I mention in the pdf--the g and the s, though there
    may have been other tweaks that I've lost track of. Thanks for any comments!"
  created: '2009-12-30 00:01:32'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'Just wanted to say this looks fantastic. '
  created: '2009-12-30 04:49:43'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I wonder if the bold should be bolder (if it's intended to be used with the
    regular, for emphasis) - perhaps it doesn't contrast enough.
  created: '2009-12-30 05:56:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I had missed this until now - thanks for reviving it.\r\n\r\nThis is pretty
    interesting, and I think is promising in terms of potential sales. But its suitability
    for \"long text\" (expressed on Aug. 7/08) I have to doubt, personally.\r\n\r\nSome
    of the glyphs, like \"s\", \"k\" anfd \"g\", are highly charming. Others -like
    the \"a\" and \"y\"- I personally don't like.\r\n\r\nThe Bold is nicely tame,
    which makes it usable in running text. On the other hand, this design seems to
    be crying for some juice really dark weights, no?\r\n\r\nThe italic makes me uncomfortable,
    frankly. By itself it looks great* but in its main role, all it makes me think
    of is: Mutiny! :-/  The thing is, I'm not sure how to fix it.\r\n\r\n* Maybe even
    better than the Roman!\r\nThat Bold Italic is especially luscious.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    it's nice to see my old \"Incredibly ...\" pangram alive and kicking.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-30 06:09:52'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "Yeah, long text might not be so much in this font's future. I don't think
    I ever believed Solvejg could be used to set an entire book. I think \"somewhat
    long text\" in my mind was more like maybe a brochure, a pamphlet, things like
    that. \r\n\r\nSounds like you both think Solvejg would look pretty good with a
    weight gain. It would be a fair amount of more work, but I also have some time
    (for once), so I might be able to deal with making a new weight. I suppose I could
    cook up a quick sample of something bold sometime soon and see how it looks and
    post it here. \r\n\r\nIs there anything in particular about a and y that you don't
    like?\r\n\r\nI can sense a bit of a disconnect between the roman and the italic,
    too, but I'm at a similar place--I don't know if there's any way to fix it, especially
    without losing the character that the italic has taken on, which, it sounds like
    we agree, is pretty nice. When I post again I'll put up some text with roman and
    italics mixed for assessing how well they collaborate.\r\n\r\nThanks for the vote
    of confidence on the bold italic. I always feel the shakiest designing that weight,
    I guess since it's always extrapolated the farthest away from my original ideas.
    Also thanks to eliason; hard not to enjoy general compliments.\r\n\r\nAlways liked
    your pangram/metagram. It shows up in most of my samples, actually."
  created: '2009-12-30 07:15:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "a: the bowl is an unhappy mix of straight and curve. Try making the top of
    the bowl less straight.\r\n\r\ny: maybe all it needs is more weight in its thick
    parts.\r\n\r\nBTW, you know what might be interesting? Making this so that it
    could work for emphasis in a body of Optima* or Pascal. Sort of how Vendome can
    be used with a Jannon.\r\n\r\n* Not that I think Optima is a text face, but still.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-30 15:26:44'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Are the italic /f/ and /j/ descenders a little too soft? \r\nAre the apostrophe
    and comma forms a bit too soft too?\r\nThe ones might be too dark.\r\nYou may
    want to make the proportions of /K/ a bit more normal in the text version (but
    I love what you have for display)."
  created: '2009-12-30 17:03:28'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "This the sort of weight you're thinking about?\r\n(Old bold included for
    comparison)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/HORNHailed_5978.PNG]"
  created: '2009-12-31 01:00:42'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: I've made all the basic letters for the new bold weight. I agree that it's
    got better character and better contrast with the other weights. What do you think
    of its weight? I'm attaching a new pdf above, NewlyMinted.pdf.
  created: '2010-01-19 18:27:45'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I think that difference between regular and new bold works well.\r\nYou could
    call the old bold a \"medium\" or \"demibold\" cut and keep it in the family if
    you wanted..."
  created: '2010-01-19 18:57:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, Demi weights rule. Some people use them for emphasis\r\nin a body of
    Regular instead of italics. I really admire that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-19 19:05:23'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: That's what I did with Newt Serif--if I remember right, the two bold weights
    of Newt came about for pretty much the same reason these two have--but I'm not
    so sure I'm attached enough to the old bold this time to make it an integral part
    of the family. D'you think it's useful enough for that to be worthwhile?
  created: '2010-01-19 19:18:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "To me a smooth gradation of weights is highly important. A designer can accommodate
    for point size variance and printing heaviness by choosing a slightly lighter
    or darker weight (hopefully while adjusting tracking as well). It's not ideal
    to do this sort of thing, but it's better than being stuck.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-19 19:32:02'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "You mean the designer being stuck, wishing he had a certain weight that doesn't
    exist? Well, I guess I'll keep the old bold on as a demi. I guess I have some
    work to do now, to get the rest of the new bold done in both roman and italic.
    (Looking forward to finishing this font\u2014I've got another one that I'm anxious
    to start. That and it's always nice to get done with a project.)"
  created: '2010-01-19 20:58:19'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Hello Nathanael,\r\n\r\nvery nice typeface work!\r\nI like it a lot. And
    the first probes you did in 2 weeks? Not bad.\r\nI think you definitely have to
    stick with the Jenson-like \u2018z\u2019 with the thin line in the middle. This
    is the form that rules specially with faces like yours!\r\n\r\nStefan"
  created: '2010-01-21 08:08:08'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "Hi again everyone!\r\n\r\nWhat a long design process. I think I'm finally
    just about done with the pixel pushing. Here, in SolvejgInMay.pdf at the top,
    is the latest in my efforts to make Solvejg happen. A new weight, and a slight
    refiguring of the old Display weight to make it finer and more Displayey. I'm
    anxious to get this font <cite>finished</cite>, but I do want some eyes besides
    mine to see it before I start negotiations, so I turn to you, Typophiles. How
    do you like it? Is there stuff that I should fix? Do you want the old bold weight
    to still be available? Let me know any thoughts you have.\r\n\r\nThanks!\r\n\r\nEdit:
    Also, I'm not sure what happened to the math symbols in the Text Italic. I'll
    fix that at some point. The Display Italic might have the same issue but I didn't
    put its math symbols in the sample originally because they were the same as the
    Roman's."
  created: '2010-05-03 07:45:35'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "The roman lowercase \u201Cg\u201D doesn\u2019t work for me at all, but the
    cursive version is lovely. Reminds me a lot of Beorcana. \r\n\r\nBy the way, the
    name Solvejg is usually written with an i (Solveig). Solvejg is so uncommon, at
    least to me, that I first mistook it for a typo. I had to look up the phone directory,
    which returned nine hits in Norway (\u201CSolveig\u201D returned 17705). It\u2019s
    a lovely name nevertheless. Makes me think of blonde farmergirls amongst deep
    fjords and majestic mountains. The English translation would be something like
    \u201Ca sunny road\u201D."
  created: '2010-05-03 11:19:11'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I think your italic /v/ is begging for a lead-in serif. Maybe italic /w/
    too.\r\n\r\nShould the loop of italic /k/ go up higher at the x-height? Maybe
    italic /b/p/h/ too.\r\n\r\nThat narrow roman /s/ might need more spacious sidebearings
    (see \"enthusiastic\"). \r\n\r\nAre your /e/s a touch light?"
  created: '2010-05-03 14:28:19'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "I've been thinking about changing it to \"Solveig\". I got the <cite>j</cite>
    spelling from my first Edvard Grieg CD, which called Solveig's Song \"Solvejgs
    Lied\". But as you point out, it's pretty rare... and I also feel like buyers
    would have a hard time pronouncing \"Solvejg\", which might be important.\r\n\r\nEliason,
    I'll take a look at the characters you've suggested. Frode frank, what sort of
    /g/ do you think would be better? One with a taller top eye?"
  created: '2010-05-03 18:59:52'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Yes, making the top bigger is the first thing I would consider if you decide
    to keep that \u201Cg\u201D, but I\u2019m sure you could try other forms as well."
  created: '2010-05-04 08:55:35'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Huh. I think the (Roman) \"g\" is beautiful, and central to the charming
    feel of the font. I'd definitely keep that.\r\n\r\nReally nice work! Great to
    see you're still working on it. The Roman makes me want to use it for a children's
    book with great illustrations. I'm not quite as convinced about the angularity
    and heightened contrast of the Italic (especially in the \"g\" actually), it's
    a strange way of contrasting with the Roman, but not sure what to suggest. :-\\\r\n\r\nA
    couple of details: \r\n- I agree with Craig about making the \"s\" a bit looser,
    so it doesn't get swallowed up too much. \r\n- Overall, the spacing seems not
    bad but is still rather uneven.\r\n- I also wonder about the Roman \"e\" \u2013
    maybe it's a bit deflated/lazy/soft too (compared to the angularity of the \"a\")?
    But maybe there's something I'm not getting.\r\n- And your c-cedilla isn't merged
    (white overlap visible).\r\n\r\nKeep it up! Looking forward to this."
  created: '2010-05-04 09:25:47'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "I\u2019d take Nina\u2019s word over mine anyday :)"
  created: '2010-05-04 09:31:27'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Forgot to add my disclaimer that I'm not an expert at this either. :)
  created: '2010-05-04 10:27:44'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "If there's a disagreement among the learn\xE8d, I suppose I'll err on the
    side of my original intentions (and doing less work) and keep my roman \"g\" as
    it is. I agree, the sidebearings of the \"s\" need to be loosened up, and I'll
    get on that. For the rest of the spacing, what are bad spots that caught your
    eye? By now it's hard for me to tell. \r\n\r\nPeople seem to talk about the italic
    and the roman being mismatched. I can see that too, to an extent. But everyone
    also says they don't know what to do about it, and I don't either. I could try
    approaching it sort of like Joanna, with arches not pointed and hairlines joining
    stems near the top, but it just seems like it would be a lot weaker-looking, and
    have nowhere near as much character. And I also don't think just rounding off
    the arches would work\u2014the only way I can see it going with that change is
    a sort of Palatino style, and I don't think that would work right. I'll mock up
    some text with the italics and roman mixed and put that up here\u2014maybe they'll
    look better together if you can see them harmonizing? Another thing is that the
    thought of redesigning all three italic lowercases fills me with dread.\r\n\r\nI
    can probably make the \"e\" more angular to match the \"a\". Also, as far as the
    \"\xE7\", I've got pretty much all my composite characters still composite in
    the font\u2014I haven't merged the contours. Is that something that's normally
    done? I remember from opening up Gentium that almost all its letters were made
    up of little movable pieces. I just never seem to be able to get mine all to stop
    showing white overlap spaces, even after telling TypeTool to point all the contours
    in the proper Type1 way. "
  created: '2010-05-05 03:46:45'
- author:
    name: johnnydib
    picture: 116018
  body: "The only spacing issue I spotted was 'Text' the e seems too close to the
    T compared to how far it is from the x. (Well I only printed the first page, and
    kept looking at letterforms couldn't really focus on spacing)\r\n\r\nThe Italic
    is more of a distant relative than a cousin or sibling, I find this to be positive
    and quite unique actually. You got two companion typefaces that have great potential
    of complementing each other in a composition.\r\nThis doesn't occur in the PDF
    but maybe an Italicized word within a sentence may look odd to some people, well
    you can always include a Demibold for emphasis, and that'll make Hrant happy.\r\n\r\nI
    love this type family and the Display is really successful."
  created: '2010-05-11 04:26:46'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "Hello everyone,\r\n\r\nI believe I'm about 99% done with this font, which
    is exciting. Before I call it done, though, I want to put up a bit of something
    I made tonight, showing the roman and italic mixed. I think they do okay together;
    how about you? It's called Hamlet.pdf, in the list at the top. If anyone has any
    other concerns, let me know. As long as they're not about kerning, because I was
    using Inkscape and couldn't kern, and thus this is kerned horribly.\r\n\r\nThanks!\r\n\r\nP.S.
    Forgot to mention other things. I squared off the \"e\" a little, and loosened
    the spacing around the \"s\", since last time."
  created: '2010-06-15 07:31:22'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "The italics in the Hamlet.pdf look a fraction too tight for me? (Tracking,
    not kerning!) Again, no I'm no expert myself.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure if you were
    asking for any feedback but I think the Hamlet layout doesn't need to be so 'jumpy'
    as your type already has so much flair! So many point sizes distract from displaying
    your careful attention to the weight. I'd avoid using this as a sample for that
    reason.\r\n\r\nCertainly great work with the typeface though."
  created: '2010-06-24 14:02:28'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "Hi everyone,\r\n\r\nI'm a little late getting the news out here, but Solveig
    is now available from Veer! [[http://marketplace.veer.com/fonts/CTT0000496|Here's
    a link.]] It's been a great font to work on and I hope you enjoy it."
  created: '2010-11-29 07:10:16'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Well done, I think this is really beautiful - it's not something that I would
    ever conceive but it captures my imagination.\r\n\r\nIt makes me want to live
    in the woods, discover some truth about myself, write a book about it and set
    the title in Solveig."
  created: '2010-12-13 14:27:03'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: That was beautiful. If one of my typefaces makes someone feel like that, I
    must be doing something right. Thanks.
  created: '2010-12-17 02:51:34'
date: '2008-07-30 23:47:11'
title: Solvejg

---
