---
author:
  name: typerror
  picture: 109491
body: "I found all of my fonts on this site as Freeware, for personal use. Is this
  right???\r\nI need a blood pressure pill!\r\n\r\nMichael"
comments:
- author:
    name: tearsforsappho
    picture: 115158
  body: "Unbelievably, they are even citing actual copywrites!\r\n\r\nNot only that,
    but if you look up other commercial fonts, many are even listed by their real
    names, and cite the actual (real, as in not pirated) copywrites.  This is honestly
    ridiculous.\r\n\r\nIf I had a blood pressure pill, I'd send it over!\r\n\r\n[Link
    removed by Moderator.]"
  created: '2008-07-31 02:20:18'
- author:
    name: jayyy
    picture: 109661
  body: Scary stuff. Seems like a Russian site. Is there anyway you can stop a site
    like that operating out of Russia? I hear there is little or no copyright laws
    over there. Surely it must be protected under international copyright - but how
    can that be enforced there?
  created: '2008-07-31 02:23:19'
- author:
    name: Stephen Rapp
    picture: 111901
  body: "It is Russian. If you click around a bit you'll get some Cyrillic. I've stumbled
    on a similar site a few times that is also Russian and they freely give away fonts
    with immunity. I don't know if there are any regulations for downloading pirated
    fonts from places like Russia where such laws don't exist.\r\n\r\nOn a lighter
    note, Someone who was interested in my font Memoir posted on Abstract Fonts and
    was encouraged to buy it by another forum member.\r\n\r\n[Link removed by Moderator.]\r\n\r\nStephen"
  created: '2008-07-31 02:37:10'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Katelynn... That Bolero is actually by Canada type, different font. Alexandra
    did not even have the sense to check the name. Canada Type's Bolero is nothing
    like Pouty. The Russian beyatch has Pouty named Bolero on fonts101.com and her
    site.\r\n\r\nJay, your guess is as good as mine.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-07-31 02:38:33'
- author:
    name: tearsforsappho
    picture: 115158
  body: "Well, thats good anyway.  Had I taken a closer look at the IMAGE you had
    in the thread, I'd have known that.\r\n\r\nHowever, that just speaks to the point
    I was making about commercial fonts available under real (as opposed to pseudo)
    names.\r\n\r\nPersonally, I wouldnt download anything from that site.  In my opinion,
    corrupt fonts messing up your system are one of the quickest ways to really ruin
    your day.  "
  created: '2008-07-31 02:46:54'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Yep... yours are up there too Stephen\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-07-31 02:47:35'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Sorry for the double post!\r\n\r\nYep... yours are up there too Stephen.
    There are like 40 pages of P22 fonts!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-07-31 02:48:53'
- author:
    name: Stephen Rapp
    picture: 111901
  body: "Michael... you got a nice avatar. \r\n\r\nI need one too; know where I can
    download one for freee!? Just kidding! I suppose I've been posting long enough
    I should make one."
  created: '2008-07-31 02:49:23'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "I'll send you some photos of flowers from our gardens. Let's start a bloomin'
    trend.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-07-31 02:55:00'
- author:
    name: tearsforsappho
    picture: 115158
  body: Birds, flowers.  Pretty soon visitors will think we're nature nuts.
  created: '2008-07-31 03:07:37'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: It sucks. Options are limited, but posting the URL is just advertising for
    them.
  created: '2008-07-31 03:09:58'
- author:
    name: typetard
  body: "well I guess track and trace the files like Letterhead does :) :0 :0\r\nWow
    check out FontGuard on Letterhead... I guess fontguard is the way to go."
  created: '2008-07-31 03:14:36'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Have any coder/hacker friends?
  created: '2008-07-31 03:14:38'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Sorry Richard!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-07-31 03:20:16'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: Asking them to stop is a good first step. Often this is all it takes rather
    than assume they are truly aware they are even doing anything wrong. A few steps
    down, I am sure you could hire some local "assistance" at AtypI St Petersburg
    to "deal with" the "situation".
  created: '2008-07-31 03:22:23'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Ok, I followed the link and noticed they are hosting advertising? I would
    think some well-worded letters to the companies footing the bill might be a step.
  created: '2008-07-31 03:51:01'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Is the onus on me to do that? I have been chastised by a foundry in the past
    for taking what I thought were proper steps i.e. kicking ass and taking names.
    I was told not to worry about the small fries... \"we need to worry about the
    corporations.\" Doesn't seem the legal teams are very effective.\r\n\r\nedit:
    Jupiter boy , I would love to come into a substantial sum and bomb these f****rs
    back into the Phototype Age!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-07-31 03:51:16'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "\u201Cwe need to worry about the corporations.\u201D\r\n\r\nc'est vrai, c'est
    tout"
  created: '2008-07-31 12:29:28'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "That was probably good advice. Sure, send these Russians an email, but beyond
    that, any further effort would likely be a waste of your time and sanity. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-31 15:41:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It is just horrible how helpless a small foundry can feel in dealing with
    international piracy. I wish you well, Michael!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-07-31 17:20:08'
- author:
    name: clashmore
    picture: 114206
  body: Man, that website has everything! If only I didn't have a conscience...
  created: '2008-08-01 09:56:28'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: Moderators, or Tearsforsappho. Would you remove that image above? No sense
    making this easier than it is already.
  created: '2008-08-01 21:44:37'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "Writing to the site via the contact form:\r\n\"Yes please and we will do
    all our best for you. \r\nPlease let also your partners know about our site and
    explain them that we are not a hackers from Russian and that we are fighting with
    piracy in our country as we can. Just ask them to find their fonts and we will
    block them for free downloading.\"\r\n\r\nSo identify your fonts, and ask them
    to stop. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-01 23:01:12'
- author:
    name: tearsforsappho
    picture: 115158
  body: "Randy:  I would gladly if I knew how to.  After another comment comes in
    the thread, the edit/delete buttons go away.  Unless I am a complete moron, of
    course.\r\n\r\nand besides, the site and others like it come up quite easily in
    a google search for \"free fonts\"."
  created: '2008-08-02 04:24:32'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>and besides, the site and others like it come up quite easily in a google
    search for \u201Cfree fonts\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nI think the idea is to not make
    things even easier to find, Katelynn... If past threads are any indication, most
    (if not all) of the Typophile moderators follow this line of thinking.\r\n\r\nI
    too have noticed that the \"Edit\" buttons disappear after a while, so maybe deleting
    the image is a task for a moderator at this point."
  created: '2008-08-02 17:08:03'
- author:
    name: tearsforsappho
    picture: 115158
  body: "In all honesty, when I put that image in there, the site address was in the
    header.  If i knew at the time that it would become a problem, i never would have
    posted it.  I understand the reasons why you would discourage links to such places,
    and from here on, i will gladly adhere to that standard.\r\n\r\nI didnt mean to
    be flippant in my last comment.  I apologize if anyone took it that way.  That
    said, how do i request that someone delete it?"
  created: '2008-08-02 23:49:18'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Wave our hands until a moderator wanders over this way? ;-)\r\n\r\nNow <em>I'm</em>
    being flippant... You'll find contact info for the moderators here:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/readme\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-03 00:09:45'
- author:
    name: koeiekat
    picture: 110312
  body: "@ happygooberhead (64.131.198.14 - Earthlink, New York): Jumping into conclusions?
    \r\n\r\nNext time please read before posting confusing - and insulting - remarks.
    Please correct your post on Abstractfonts. Thank you.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-03 11:38:05'
- author:
    name: Stephen Rapp
    picture: 111901
  body: "I've asked Tiffany to remove that link\u2014 probably was bad idea on my
    part to put there. My intention was simply to break the stereotype that all free
    font people are out to get our commercial fonts. The post made by happygooberhead
    to Abstractfonts was inappropriate and I apologize to them and here as well for
    putting that link up.\r\nStephen"
  created: '2008-08-03 16:07:01'
- author:
    name: koeiekat
    picture: 110312
  body: Stephan, no need to. Perfectly correct link. It is only the happygooberhead
    ...
  created: '2008-08-03 16:50:23'
- author:
    name: tearsforsappho
    picture: 115158
  body: Ironically, I requested that Tiffany remove my image as well.  I guess she
    might be busy in this thread...
  created: '2008-08-03 17:39:18'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "While we are playing nice and protective here, the dregs of font pirating
    society are out there trading favors and websites like hos.\r\n\r\nLet's put it
    this way.\r\n\r\nOur actions: One drop of rain just fell on the ocean. \r\n\r\nMy
    thought is that as a Type community we need to be vigilant, not just seeing who
    can id the latest font request. We should be searching out free sites, questionable
    sites etc.... acting as a protective community.\r\n\r\nHow about we form some
    search and destroy teams. TAAD - Typophiles Against Alphabet Defrauders, kinda
    like MADD.\r\n\r\nWhen we catch them we can have Sister Tiffany (formally Miss
    Tiffany) beat their knuckles with a Pica ruler and report them to the Great and
    Omnipotent Ampersand for judgement. The Great Ampersand, known as E.T., will then
    handcuff their BCP's,  correct their path direction and resign them to the first
    version of Font Studio. \r\n\r\nWhen someone steals my fonts all I have left is
    my sense of humor, sick as it is!\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-08-03 19:05:41'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "I vote for some of those white  [[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BqfpZvv7ozQ&feature=related|globes]]
    like on The Prisoner.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-03 19:26:47'
- author:
    name: koeiekat
    picture: 110312
  body: "@ Michael: you realize you CAN do that? \r\n\r\nEdit kk: Not the waterboarding
    ...\r\n\r\nRelax, it is just a font"
  created: '2008-08-03 19:27:01'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "No waterboarding Jupiterboy; )\r\n\r\nJust kidding.\r\n\r\nI am looking up
    the Prisoner as I type!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-08-03 19:27:03'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "You will enjoy that. They were called Rovers and they would appear anytime
    someone would try and escape the island. They would somehow do you in with bad
    '70s video effects or something if I remember.\r\n\r\nOmniscient, relentless,
    weird, but somehow never really THAT threatening."
  created: '2008-08-03 19:31:55'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Found it. That is a big drop... or should I say a reversed out option 8?\r\n\r\nShould
    we enclose the thieves in that to perpetually bounce around the beach with no
    sun block?\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-08-03 19:34:13'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>We should be searching out free sites, questionable sites etc.... acting
    as a protective community.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou\u2019d be better off just focusing
    on producing new fonts. Spend all the time you want trying to get your fonts of
    the various crummy free font websites out there and it still won\u2019t get your
    fonts off Usenet, ftp servers, torrent sites, etc, which is probably where they\u2019re
    coming from before they end up on free font web sites. Do what the rest of the
    software industry has done\u2014either find a way to exploit piracy as promotion,
    or just ignore it entirely, because you can\u2019t beat pirates."
  created: '2008-08-03 20:13:38'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Thanks James. I'm done producing fonts for a while until there is a shift
    in attitudes by the community. And I have to believe that taking them down one
    at a time is better than doing nothing.\r\n\r\nBut... when you have a stake in
    it your priorities seem to shift!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-08-03 20:21:31'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "\"Relax, it is just a font.\"\r\n\r\nWell, to the people who make them for
    a living (or even as part of their living), it is their livelihood. You might
    as well say \"Relax, it's just your ability to get food, shelter and clothing.\"\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-08-04 06:43:53'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Appreciate it Thomas. Those that don't have an investment just don't get
    it. \r\n\r\nI am even more intrigued at the thought that I should design even
    more fonts to offset the losses of the ones that are being pirated. What school
    of economics is that?\r\n\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-08-04 07:25:31'
- author:
    name: Kaspars.m
  body: "I read this site everyday for months, but this thread made my to register.\r\n\r\ntyperror,
    there are plenty of warez forums, there are closed community, there are more opened
    ones, mostly they host on rapidshare and likes(eg. they host the files of fonts),
    but if russian, they host on russian servers as they don't have copyright law
    for internet and nobody cares too. And then there are irc channels, from where
    you can get freshest released fonts by groups, they are pure ones, no extracts
    from pdf's(as they buy those fonts, to give it for free to others.) And if you
    are deep into warez thing there are ftp's with basically everything on them -
    it is warez scheme for everithing, not only fonts.\r\nSo, I don't think that anyone
    should care about extracts(from pdfs) as mostly fonts dont have all glyphs and
    all weights, and sadly there are nothing you can do about the real fonts out there(you
    can ask thou, to the uploader via mail or pm not to upload, they all are grown
    up ppl, and I think that most of them will listen to you). \r\nAnd its not true
    that those fonts are corrupted, mostly they are pure files, as the community tend
    to clean the \"scene\" from bad fonts.\r\nSo, why I know this all - because I
    live in Latvia :D Im glad, that I work at company that license fonts used in projects,
    but 80% of companies does not. But it is how it is, because life here sux.\r\nAnd,
    at the end, I want to say, that piracy doesnt means that you loose money(it is
    speculatively and wrong to say that) as many ppl try fonts, and if they loves
    them, they buy license. As I wont buy 4 fonts, to just show them to client in
    real life, but I buy the one client chooses. Maybe its wrong, but I love typography
    and its not possible to license every font on my computer.\r\nAnd I feel sorry
    that you need to see you work pirated, I Know how you feel!"
  created: '2008-08-04 08:30:54'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Thanks James. I\u2019m done producing fonts for a while until there is
    a shift in attitudes by the community.\"\r\n\r\nWhich community?\r\n\r\n\"You
    might as well say \u201CRelax, it\u2019s just your ability to get food, shelter
    and clothing.\u201D\"\r\n\r\nOnly valid if 'pirates' were actually affecting one's
    ability to get food, shelter and clothing. \r\n\r\nJust had huge battle with Adobe
    to get some software I had purchased installed. Adobe's insane registration/serial
    \"anti-piracy\" system pretty much convinced me that I have little interest in
    giving Adobe much of my business. \r\n\r\n'Relax, it's just a font' is probably
    saner advice than 'worry, panic, and spend pointless hours obsessing about an
    issue you have little to not control over'. ;o)\r\n\r\n\"that I should design
    even more fonts to offset the losses of the ones that are being pirated. What
    school of economics is that?\"\r\n\r\n'Free Market'"
  created: '2008-08-04 14:59:15'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">\u2019Relax, it\u2019s just a font\u2019 is probably saner advice than \u2019worry,
    panic, and spend pointless hours obsessing about an issue you have little to not
    control over\u2019. ;o)\r\n\r\nMy neighbor owns a small shop near us. Sadly shoplifting
    is a fact of life, the cost of which is shared amongst the paying customers. This
    annoys her and the paying customers. However, on occasions she\u2019s able to
    catch a thief in the act and call the authorities. \r\n\r\nWhy would you deny
    a type designer the right to being vigilant? Why would you tell paying customers
    that subsidizing the pirates is okay?"
  created: '2008-08-04 16:45:35'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "shoplifting, alas, is a flawed argument. There is a tangible loss of a sale
    for each unit taken.\r\n\r\nthat doesn't exist with digital copies. For each font
    downloaded from that Russian site, is that one sale that would have happened?
    Odds are, probably not. Granted, there's really no way to tell.\r\n\r\n\"Why would
    you deny a type designer the right to being vigilant?\"\r\n\r\nI'm not. I'm saying
    that it's a rather futile endeavor to go after 'font collectors' who are swapping
    1000s of fonts out there on the web. So, it can be a lot of effort for no real
    result.\r\n\r\nGo after commercial theft...design firms using illicit fonts for
    ad campaigns. Those are more likely real losses of sales. \r\n\r\nUltimately,
    if one is selling digital media, they need to realize that the technology allows
    for unlimited copying. That's just the way it is. So the business model needs
    to cater to that. What some are saying (including myself) is that it's probably
    best to cater to the professional, paying market. Put attention towards those
    customers...not the 'possible' customer of anonymous kids in Russia who swap fonts
    to make gig flyers. \r\n"
  created: '2008-08-04 18:29:17'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "typerror,\r\n\r\nPlease post the link to the site.\r\n\r\nThank you.\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-05 00:58:09'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Sorry it took so long to remove the links. I'm on Galiano Island at Type
    Camp this week and I've been crazy busy. \r\n"
  created: '2008-08-05 06:40:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "That sounds like some type of vacation, Miss T :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-08-05 14:59:26'
- author:
    name: patternmaker
    picture: 109951
  body: 'That problematic site is now password protected, though I''d guess the fonts
    are still there. '
  created: '2008-08-06 01:44:35'
- author:
    name: Adding Wood To The Fire
  body: The Fontguard system seems interesting but nowadays with so much malware around
    I bet there will be cases of people being prosecuted for piracy they didn't commit.
    As many people have their computers infected without knowing, and are open to
    exterior access.
  created: '2009-05-01 16:36:43'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/wood_id_4641.png]'
  created: '2009-05-01 18:07:43'
date: '2008-07-31 01:56:30'
title: I am stunned!

---
