---
author:
  name: gohebrew
  picture: 112525
body: "I am creating a set of OpenType fonts for professionally typesetting Biblical
  Hebrew.\r\n\r\nUnlike previous generations of computer-based typeface software,
  placement of upper taamei mikrah (or taamei mikrah positioned above the Hebrew aleph-beis
  characters) is no longer determined by the user of the left-to-right typesetting
  program. Even is cold-type, hot-type, or even computer-based film-type, placement
  was determined by the operator annd/or the typesetting program. The actual typeface
  was passive, and did not determine the exact positioning of the various diacritic
  markings, such as the nikkud, the taamim (trop), the meteg, or the shva-nah, etc.\r\n\r\nHowever,
  in the newest generation of Biblical Hebrew typesetting, the operator/typesetter
  and/or the typesetting program does not determine the placement of the diacritic
  markings. The actual well-crafted OpenType Biblical Hebrew font determines the placement
  of the diacritic markings.\r\n\r\nSince that is the case, I seek to know if there
  is a rule  or wisdom governing the correct positioning of the placement of upper
  taamei mikrah.\r\n\r\nI have noticed in pre-computer age Biblical Hebrew books of
  the Hebrew Bible, the placement of upper taamei mikrah were often determined by
  where they would fit best. In most post-computer age Biblical Hebrew books of the
  Hebrew Bible, many recent books have made the placement of upper taamei mikrah on
  the far left hand side of Hebrew aleph-beis characters, in order to allow certain
  symbols to be placed above the Hebrew aleph-beis characters in the center. \r\n\r\nIt
  seems then that there are no hard rules or wisdom governing the correct positioning
  of the placement of upper taamei mikrah. Or, the earlier typesetters or typeface
  creators/programmers simply were unaware of any hard rules or wisdom governing the
  correct positioning of the placement of upper taamei mikrah.\r\n\r\nDoes anybody
  know if there are rules or wisdom governing the correct positioning of the placement
  of upper taamei mikrah? Pease share them with me, or inform me of the contacts with
  the appropriate scholars who do know.\r\n\r\nSimilar, I am interested in the various
  rules for shva-nah, shva-nach, komatz katan, komatz gadol, hataf komatz katan, hataf
  komatz gadol, and any other grammaticalrules governing Hebrew."
comments:
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> It seems then that there are no hard rules or wisdom governing the correct
    positioning of the placement of upper taamei mikrah.\r\n\r\nWhere did you get
    that? \r\n\r\n\r\n> Similar, I am interested in the various rules for shva-nah,
    shva-nach, komatz katan, komatz gadol, hataf komatz katan, hataf komatz gadol,
    and any other grammaticalrules governing Hebrew.\r\n\r\nThere are a lot of books
    about grammar. But how & when to use/apply the rules -- that's another story.
    \ \r\nWhat do you know? "
  created: '2008-08-03 04:21:30'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> > It seems then that there are no hard rules or wisdom governing the correct
    positioning of the placement of upper taamei mikrah.\r\n\r\n>> Where did you get
    that? \r\n\r\nActually, I do not know if there are no hard rules, or there are
    in fact hard rules, but earlier typesetters were simply unaware of them.\r\n\r\nWhen
    it comes to the subtleties of Hebrew glyph placement, Hebrew grammar rules and
    their use/application, these are subjects generally out of the realm of graphic
    art and typesetting.\r\n\r\nFurthermore, about one hundred years ago, mainstream
    Judaism preferred to discourage widespread knowledge of these topics, as they
    were areas of knowledge known best to maskilim (opponents of mainstream Judaism).
    In this way, people who were maskilim could be easily identified (by their knowledge
    of these topics), as theor outward appearance was similar.\r\n\r\nAs a ressult,
    unfortunately, most people, including great scholars, no longer are familiar with
    these topics."
  created: '2008-08-03 13:48:06'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> > Similar, I am interested in the various rules for shva-nah, shva-nach,
    komatz katan, komatz gadol, hataf komatz katan, hataf komatz gadol, and any other
    grammatical rules governing Hebrew.\r\n\r\n>> There are a lot of books about grammar.
    But how & when to use/apply the rules \u2014 that\u2019s another story. What do
    you know?\r\n\r\nThere are many books on the basics of Hebrew grammar. What I
    seek is not basic. I don't seek the definitions of these forms, such as, shva-nah,
    shva-nach, komatz katan, komatz gadol, hataf komatz katan, hataf komatz gadol,
    etc. \r\n\r\nAs you write, I seek \"how & when to use/apply the rules\".\r\n\r\nI
    seek to better understand these rules, the conditions of their use and application,
    in order to incorporate them into the OpenType Hebrew fonts I am creating.\r\n\r\nFor
    example, John Hudson created the excellent SBL-Hebrew OpenType Biblical Hebrew
    typeface, and incorporated the Hebrew grammatical rule of the furtive patach into
    the font. \r\n\r\nOne vowel in Hebrew is the patach, pronounced AFTER the Hebrew
    letter positioned above it with an \"ah\" sound. However, if the patach is position
    above the final Hebrew letter of the word, and that final Hebrew letter is either
    a Ches or an Ayin, then its positioning in under the extreme left side of the
    Hebrew letter. This indicated to the reader that the patach is not pronounced
    AFTER the Hebrew letter, but instead BEFORE the Hebrew letter.\r\n\r\nTis kind
    of patach is called the furtive patach. Whether the typesetter or user knows this
    Hebrew grammar rule of not, the furtive patach automatically appears of the condition
    arises. I seek to do the same thing regarding other Hebrew grammar rules, wherever
    possible."
  created: '2008-08-03 14:09:48'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Whether the typesetter or user knows this Hebrew grammar rule of not, the
    furtive patach automatically appears of the condition arises. \r\n\r\nWell, let's
    see several examples. \r\n\r\n\r\n Furtive Patach is <strong>relatively</strong>
    \ simple  since we know that there are 3 gutturals.  \r\nThe Rule: \r\nFurtive
    patach is an <em>a</em> vowel that is added to the 3 gutturals: het, he  & ayin
    <strong>only</strong> when it's preceded by a vowel other than <em>a</em>  \u2014
    you don't want to apply the rule to any word-final het, he & ayin.\r\n Now, you
    want to read the Bible; find the words; apply the rules ; build an OT feature
    \u2014   how many  substitution? 100? 200? 1000?  \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/43377\">Meteg</a>\r\nThere
    are 10!!! different kinds of metegs!!! You want to read the whole bible;find the
    words with meteg;apply the rules, build an OT feature \u2014  how many  substitution?
    500? 1000? 2000? Just for one mark!?!? \r\n\r\n\r\nDagesh: \r\nLet's see the next
    sample  \u2014  Genesis 1: 11.  The  word peri (fruit; mentioned 200 times, more
    or less) + dagesh.  One of them is \r\npunctuated with  dagesh hazak.   So, just
    for one word! + one mark  you want to have 200  substitutions?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/PeriSample_6387.gif]\r\n\r\nI
    don't think so. This is a HUGE task!!!!\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-03 23:21:41'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I don't believe it is necessary for an OpenType Biblical Hebrew font to have
    contextual processing look-ups for every use of dagesh.\r\n\r\nIt would be great
    for an OpenType Biblical Hebrew font to have contextual processing look-ups for
    every use of meteg, but I believe that the current version of OpenType, MS VOLT
    1.3, and Adobe InDesign CS3 ME could handle that much processing. \r\n\r\nA huge
    data base has already been created with every occurance cited. So, that aspect
    is not the hurdle.\r\n\r\nPerhaps, instead of character placement, ligature replacement
    could occur instead, causing metegs to be added to the text that doesn't have
    it. I think it would reduce the processing workload. But again I think this is
    beyond the limits of the software involved.\r\n\r\nWhere it could be implemented
    is by shva-nah, shva-nach, komatz katan, komatz gadol, hataf komatz katan, and
    hataf komatz gadol, because their occurances are much fewer than meteg."
  created: '2008-08-03 23:41:50'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Israel, you need to read between the lines. I'm talking about efficiently!!!\r\n\r\n>
    Perhaps, instead of character placement, ligature replacement could occur instead,
    causing metegs to be added to the text that doesn\u2019t have it\r\n\r\nSorry.
    But you can't  hijack registered features (ligature) to do this; Since when alef
    (or any letter) + meteg = ligature?\r\n\r\n\r\n> Where it could be implemented
    is by shva-nah, shva-nach, komatz katan, komatz gadol, hataf komatz katan, and
    hataf komatz gadol, because their occurances are much fewer than meteg.\r\n\r\nWell,
    let's see. There are...something around, or over 2,000!!!! words with kamats katan.
    Sheva \u2014 I don't want  to think about the number. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n> I seek
    to know if there is a rule or wisdom governing the correct positioning of the
    placement of upper taamei mikrah.\r\n\r\nAnd what about the lower marks? "
  created: '2008-08-04 01:23:20'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> And what about the lower marks?\r\n\r\nTraditionally, they have been placed
    like graphic symbols aligned to the nikkud on the right side, with a slight space
    to separate them, and a meteg (if necessary) on the left side, with a slight space
    to separate them.\r\n\r\nRegarding the upper taamei mikrah, traditionally they
    have been centered above the Hebrew letters.\r\n\r\nThis poses a problem regarding
    the shvah-nah, as two graphic symbols can not take up a single space. Plus, with
    variable character widths, this was too difficult to program in a font in the
    pre-OpenType days. So, the upper taamei mikrah were simply placed on the extreme
    left.\r\n\r\nHowever, if the upper taamei mikrah are placed according to the way
    they are chanted, perhaps their placement varies.\r\n\r\nPerhaps, similar rules
    apply to lower taamei mikrah, as you half seriously imply.\r\n \r\nBtw, David,
    I think shva-nah, komatz katan,  and hataf komatz katan, is doable through font-based
    ligatures, not through OT/VOLT replacements, although I agree that its not practical
    or efficient as you describe it for meteg.\r\n\r\nAnyway, I will know OpenType
    and MS VOLT's limitations better by next month.\r\n\r\nIn the Talmud we learn
    that when one knows well the limitations that one deals with, then the fun begins,
    creative work arounds, etc. I don't give up easily."
  created: '2008-08-04 01:58:40'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Israel,\r\n\r\nI didn't say to give up, or don't be creative. It's just way
    way way too much. "
  created: '2008-08-04 22:26:53'
- author:
    name: JCSalomon
    picture: 128147
  body: "&emsp;Some years ago, Yannis Haralambous created a Biblical Hebrew typesetting
    package called [[http://omega.enstb.org/yannis/pdf/biblical-hebrew94.pdf|Tiqwah]]
    and Alan Hoenig created [[http://www.tug.org/TUGboat/Articles/tb24-1/hoenig.pdf|Makor]],
    both based on TeX.  The papers I linked to have discussion of font design and
    niqud/ta'am placement.\r\n&emsp;John Hudson's [[http://www.sbl-site.org/educational/BiblicalFonts_SBLHebrew.aspx|Hebrew
    font]] he designed for the SBL also shows the results of research in this direction;
    you might ask him for pointers.\r\n\u2014Joel"
  created: '2008-08-05 12:34:43'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I am working together with John Hudson, who I respect very highly for both
    his excellent Hebrew type design and well thought out nikkud/taam placement knowledge.\r\n\r\nThe
    issue we are groping in the sequences when narrow Hebrew letters like vohv or
    yuhd appear before left aligned Hebrew letters daled or reish, and sets of taam/nikkud/meteg
    appear under them.\r\n\r\nAs you can picture, very little space exists, and bumping
    or overlapping occurs, if we apply the same default nikkud/taam placement rules
    as in other combinations.\r\n\r\nIf course, as the professional Hebrew typesetter
    knows, this can be addressed and corrected through kerning, where the bumping
    or overlapping is removed by nudging different elements.\r\n\r\nThe question is
    how to best incorporate these personalized tweakings into the OpenType Biblical
    Hebrew font as a sub-set of instructions, so that the inexperienced user will
    enjoy this knowledgeable result automatically.\r\n\r\nLike including a furtive
    patach-like instruction for shvah-nah, or for komatz katan, I believe this too
    can be incoporated into the well-made OpenType Biblical Hebrew font."
  created: '2008-08-06 03:40:04'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> so that the inexperienced user will enjoy this knowledgeable result automatically.\r\n\r\nSo,
    let's say I'm the inexperienced user; don't have any knowledge about nikkud +
    cantillation \u2014 what exactly I'm going to enjoy?  Why do I need an automatic
    font? Why do I care about what is kamats katan or gadol? "
  created: '2008-08-06 03:56:51'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "\r\n> Like including a furtive patach-like instruction\r\n\r\nAs I said before.
    The furtive patach isn't an automatic, unless you are going to \"feed\" the font
    with 2,000 !!! words, or more with the furtive patach  +  the exceptional.  The
    same thing with kamats katan \u2014 more than 2,000!!! words +  the exceptional.
    The same thing with shava \u2014 5,000,  6,000...who knows the number. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-06 04:34:04'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> Why do I need an automatic font?\r\n\r\nEverybody wants to what's right.
    Nobody likes to do something incorrect, and have others say that there is mud
    on my face. \r\n\r\nAs users of Biblical Hebrew, be it the well read Reform Jew,
    the yeshiva bachur/student, or the Catholic Bible student, learn that that there
    is a correct way to display Biblical Hebrew text, and there is an incorrect or
    sloppy was to display Biblical Hebrew text, they will of course desire to correctly
    Biblical Hebrew text.\r\n\r\nIf this can be done automatically because the OpenType
    Biblical Hebrew font thoughtfully and carefully made, the user will want such
    an automatic font."
  created: '2008-08-06 05:09:02'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> Why do I care about what is kamats katan or gadol?\r\n\r\nAgain, I truly
    believe that as people, particularly children, become increasingly knowledgeable
    about rules of Biblical Hebrew grammar, then these issues will become increasingly
    important. As a result, we will care a lot about displaying Biblical Hebrew text
    with a kamats katan or gadol.\r\n\r\nIt is because we don't know these Biblical
    Hebrew grammar rules well that we don't care so much about displaying Biblical
    Hebrew text with a kamats katan or gadol."
  created: '2008-08-06 05:34:34'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> As I said before. The furtive patach isn\u2019t an automatic, unless you
    are going to \u201Cfeed\u201D the font with 2,000 !!! words, or more with the
    furtive patach + the exceptional. The same thing with kamats katan \u2014 more
    than 2,000!!! words + the exceptional. The same thing with shava \u2014 5,000,
    6,000...who knows the number.\r\n\r\nYou are speaking about the vocabulary, and
    see therefore it as an impossible hurdle to overcome.\r\n\r\nI understand that
    there are basic Biblical Hebrew grammar rules which cause a kamats to be kotan
    or gadol, or a shah to be nach or nah. Hence, it doesn't have to be impossible
    to hurdle.\r\n\r\nYou might be right, but I think it's worth the effort to explore.
    Don't you agree?"
  created: '2008-08-06 05:40:38'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "A shvah nah is usually depicted by a small asterisk floating above the Hebrew
    character, somewhat like one of the upper taamei mikra.\r\n\r\nIf so, then when
    we apply the rule of shvah nah to Biblical Hebrew, how can one of the upper taamei
    mikra be positioned in the same space as the shvah nah?\r\n\r\nI spent quite awile
    and researched each time shvah nah appeared in the Five Books of Moses, in the
    fantastic work of the modern day Jerusalem publisher Rabbi Winefeld. Each time,
    shvah nah appeared, there never was one of the upper taamei mikra. Rather, each
    time shvah nah appeared, there was only one of the lower taamei mikra.\r\n\r\nThis
    is not only good news from a typesetting placement point of view, but seemingly
    teells us aldo that there is a logical relationship in the Biblical Hebrew grammatical
    rules for shvah nah and the taamei mikra."
  created: '2008-08-06 06:04:13'
- author:
    name: JCSalomon
    picture: 128147
  body: "&emsp;I notice that the most recent Unicode standard includes distinct \u201Cqamats\"
    & \u201Cqamats qatan\" characters.&ensp;I've also seen a larger sheva used for
    sheva nah in a recently-published <em>Tikkun Korim</em>; perhaps this can be an
    alternate representation of &lt;hebrew letter&gt;+&lt;sheva&gt;+&lt;rafe&gt;.\r\n&emsp;The
    automatic recognition of kamats katon & sheva nah is enticing, but I believe grammarians
    disagree on some of the finer points (pun intended).\r\n&emsp;As far as your observation
    that sheva nah & upper taamim do not coincide, did you notice if perhaps the word
    has a different niqquda used if it's in a position within a sentence requiring
    an upper taam?&ensp;(Similar to the way the word \"\u05DE\u05B4\u05E6\u05B0\u05E8\u05B7\u05D9\u05B4\u05DD\"
    <em>Mitsrayim</em> (Egypt) becomes \"\u05DE\u05B4\u05E6\u05B0\u05E8\u05B8\u05D9\u05B4\u05DD\"
    <em>Mitsroyim</em> at the end of a sentence.)\r\n\r\n\u2014Joel"
  created: '2008-08-06 15:56:59'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Let me address this  issue one more time. And this is my last word. \r\n\r\nLet's
    keep in mind that you're talking about an automatic font, and not just diacritic
    positioning, right?\r\n\r\n<strong>1.</strong> My bad. I didn't ask you for a
    sample (or two, or three) with the incorrect way to display Biblical Hebrew text,
    as you wrote. Do you have it? \r\nHere,  to my left, I have a Huge selection of
    the Hebrew Bibles.  Well, I don't see any sloppy way, or something so awful. Of
    course, If we are talking about Bibles from the 1930s, 1940s  etc etc  \u2014
    \  there're things  to improve. But again there's nothing so so  awful. The master
    work is  \u2014 without doubt \u2014 the bible  <strong>Jerusalem Crown</strong>.
    \ \r\nEven <strong>Biblia Hebraica Stuttgartensia</strong> (BHS) is fine \u2014
    and this bible is fully loaded  with errors all the way from here to Australia.\r\nPrayer
    books \u2014 I don't see the sloppy way. Of course, there are good publishers,
    and there are good \"publishers\". \r\n\r\n<strong>2.</strong> > particularly
    children, become increasingly knowledgeable about rules of Biblical Hebrew grammar\r\n\r\nNext
    to the Bibles I have the tons books, textbooks about grammar, cantillation etc
    etc. I'm looking at one of them. This is a textbook + cd (junior high). I don't
    see any sloppy way. This book is really & truly great;  from a to z, or alef to
    tav.  No sloppy, or shompy. The important aspect of this book  is the approval!!!
    \ \r\nThe book is approved by the most important figures in the religious world:
    Rabbi Sraya Devlitzky (Bnei Brak) & Rabbi Ovadia Yosef (Jerusalem).  I don't know
    if you're familiar with Rabbi Devlitzky, or  Rabbi Yosef . But when the say it's
    OK, it isn't just OK \u2014 it's perfect OK!   So, don't worry too much about
    the education!!! You need to be around those kids and see how they read/chant,
    and what they know about grammar. Moreover, there are tons of CDs/DVDs/softwares
    with voice + color.  I  don't see why they need any automatic thing.\r\n\r\n\r\n<strong>3.</strong>.
    > You are speaking about the vocabulary\r\n\r\nAgain, you need to read between
    the lines Israel :^)\r\nThis is not just a matter of  vocabulary. Any automatic
    thing needs to address  the differences between <strong>The Leningrad Codex</strong>
    & <strong>The Aleppo Codex</strong>. Do you understand  the scope of that?\r\n\r\n\r\n<strong>4.</strong>
    > A shvah nah is usually depicted by a small asterisk floating above the Hebrew
    character, somewhat like one of the upper taamei mikra... is a logical relationship
    in the Biblical Hebrew grammatical rules for shvah nah and the taamei mikra.\r\n\r\nTruly
    & honest \u2014  I don't have a clue what are you talking about. What is exactly
    the essence of this latest discovery? \r\n\r\nGood luck."
  created: '2008-08-06 22:19:34'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nWhen I bemoan the incomplete knowledge of Biblical Hebrew grammatical
    rules as a insulting comment that there is a widespread lack of knowledge. Thank
    G-d, many of those who love the study of the Bible in its original know many Biblical
    Hebrew grammatical rules. \r\n\r\nYet, as in kabballistic literature there is
    a discussion that the truly wise person realizes that as he or she knows more
    and more, in truth they know less and less in relationship to how much knowledge
    there is to know. There is no limit of how much infinite wisdom one can optain;
    the more you know, the more you realize that there is so much more to know.\r\n\r\nReb
    Ovadiah Yosef Shlita will be the first to say this. The other great scholar and
    leader I di no know. As you remember, Reb Ovadiah was a past Chief Rabbi (Sephardic)
    of Israel in the late '70s. He has a huge following in Israel today.\r\n\r\nRegarding
    the sleuth of Hebrew Bibles that are seemingly incomplete, with the exception
    of Rabbi Winefield's Shai L'Morah series of books, including the Tanach, the shvah-nah
    (and usually the komatz katan and hataf komatz katan) does not appear.\r\n\r\nThis
    is clearly a lacking, as a few books of the Rishonim (early rabbinic authorities,
    like Rashi and Maimonides) document these Biblical Hebrew grammatical rules, and
    preceded the invention of the printing press by over a hundred years.\r\n\r\n\r\nJC,\r\n\r\nI
    agree there are different definitions of the rules for shvah nah. (The solution
    is to have different fonts for different folks; just like some like chocolate,
    and others like vanilla.) \r\n\r\nI think either definition is doable. Hopefully.
    It's certainly worth a good college try.\r\n\r\nI think that David thinks it impossible,
    so it's not worth trying."
  created: '2008-08-07 00:06:45'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "When I bemoan the incomplete knowledge of Biblical Hebrew grammatical rules
    as a insulting comment that there is a widespread lack of knowledge.\r\n\r\n==============
    should read ============\r\n\r\nWhen I bemoan the incomplete knowledge of Biblical
    Hebrew grammatical rules, IT IS NOT as a insulting comment that there is a widespread
    lack of knowledge."
  created: '2008-08-07 00:32:38'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> I don\u2019t see why they need any automatic thing.\r\n\r\nNo one explains
    on any product not only the various views of shvah-nah or even a single view of
    shvah-nah. All I have heard is how a set of Hebrew letters are pronounced with
    shvah-nah and with an ordinary shvah.\r\n\r\nWe may have tools to help us chant
    the taamei mikra, for ones bar mitzvah for example, but the correct typographical
    placement is not taught.\r\n\r\nJust because chanting is being addressed even
    creatively does not excuse the fact we are ignorant of this aspect of Jewish tradition.
    The way we address an aspect of ignorance regarding an important part of Biblical
    Hebrew is not with making excuses and pointing to other great achievements; The
    way we address an aspect of ignorance regarding an important part of Biblical
    Hebrew is by replacing the ignorance with knowledge experience."
  created: '2008-08-07 03:11:08'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> This is not just a matter of vocabulary. Any automatic thing needs to address
    the differences between The Leningrad Codex & The Aleppo Codex. Do you understand
    the scope of that?\r\n\r\nI don't get how slight differences in the Biblical Hebrew,
    about 10 to 15 Hebrew characters has to do with the creation and inclusion of
    automatic Biblical Hebrew grammatical rules for (two or three kinds of) shvah-nah,
    and komatz katan (and hataf komatz katan), like SBL-Hebrew's automatic Biblical
    Hebrew grammatical rule for furtive patach."
  created: '2008-08-07 03:16:44'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>> A shvah nah is usually depicted by a small asterisk floating above the
    Hebrew character, somewhat like one of the upper taamei mikra...\r\n\r\n> Truly
    & honest \u2014 I don\u2019t have a clue what are you talking about.\r\n\r\nThe
    shvah-nah is graphically represented in many books which feature nikkud, such
    as the siddur or Jewish prayerbook, or hagada (Passover seder text), by a small
    asterisk over Hebrew letters that have a shvah (such as the books published by
    Kehos, the Chabad-Lubavitch publisher), or a straight thin horizontal line over
    Hebrew letters that have a shvah (such as the books published by ArtScroll, the
    world's largest Jewish commercial publisher). I am unsure what JPS does. Rabbi
    Winefield's Shai L'Morah publishing house uses a circle around a small asterisk
    (to draw greater asttention to the symbol for shvah-nah."
  created: '2008-08-07 03:27:37'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> As far as your observation that sheva nah & upper taamim do not coincide,
    did you notice if perhaps the word has a different niqquda used if it\u2019s in
    a position within a sentence requiring an upper taam?\r\n\r\nYour questions get
    me to think, what are the different functions of upper taamei mikra and lower
    taamei mikra. I am certain there is an explanation which sheds light on all these
    questions and observations."
  created: '2008-08-07 03:31:37'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "To John Hudson,\r\n\r\nUnlike the furtive patach, or the folded ayin or lamed,
    or the truncated final chof or truncated final chof, which are mainly typographical
    issues (although thefirtive parach does limited grammatical impact), the shvah-nah,
    or or the hataf komatz kayan, are in deed full Hebrew grammatical symbols based
    upon Hebrew grammatical rules.\r\n\r\nAs such, they should have their own Unicode
    values, like the komatz katan, shnah, or any nikkud or taamei mikra.\r\n\r\nTrue,
    there are different graphic symbols which Hebrew publishers have depicted the
    shvah-nah (at least four kinds of glyphs), bit all agree that a shvah-nach and
    shvah-nah are distict elements in Hebrew grammar.\r\n\r\nI have chosen to make
    this a public record to encourage your respected status among the Unicode Consortium
    to do the right thing asap, so that my OpenType Biblical Hebrew fonts may incorporate
    the entire body of Hebrew glyphs, and that Unicode support Hebrew completely."
  created: '2008-08-07 04:26:40'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "I think that my point is clear. So the automatic font vs. regular font  \u2014
    that's was my final word. Other things, subjects you're most welcome!\r\n\r\n\r\n--------------\r\n\r\nI
    don't understand the nature of that defensive mood? (When I bemoan the incomplete
    knowledge of Biblical Hebrew grammatical rules..... ). Why did you say that? \r\n\r\n\r\nYou
    said: \r\n<cite>I spent quite awile and researched each time shvah nah appeared
    in the Five Books of Moses, in the fantastic work of the modern day Jerusalem
    publisher Rabbi Winefeld. Each time, shvah nah appeared, there never was one of
    the upper taamei mikra. Rather, each time shvah nah appeared, there was only one
    of the lower taamei mikra.\r\nThis is not only good news from a typesetting placement
    point of view, but seemingly teells us aldo that there is a logical relationship
    in the Biblical Hebrew grammatical rules for shvah nah and the taamei mikra.</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd
    I said: \r\n<cite> Truly & honest \u2014 I don\u2019t have a clue what are you
    talking about. What is exactly the essence of this latest discovery?</cite>\r\n\r\nWhy
    I said that? \r\nLet's have an example, explore  your source: Shay La'Morah .
    BTW, which one do you have --  Shay La'Morah with Keter Torah, or  Shay La'Morah
    with Rashi commentary? \r\n\r\nExodus 17: 12.\r\nWord # 1: indeed there's a circle
    around a small asterisk + shva na + lower cantillation mark.\r\nWord # 2: the
    word is punctuated with shva na! + upper cantillation mark! \r\nWord # 3: the
    word is punctuated with shva na! + upper cantillation mark!\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ex17_3679.gif]\r\nAnd
    this is only one little sample. There are more words. Tons! \r\n\r\nI didn't say
    \" Each time, shvah nah appeared, there never was one of the upper taamei mikra\".
    \  We need to have some responsibility, right? \r\n"
  created: '2008-08-07 22:36:55'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Edit:\r\nsorry. my bad. and without the Edit feature..... This is the right
    one: \r\n\r\nExodus 17: 12.\r\nWord # 1: indeed there's a circle around a small
    asterisk + shva na + lower cantillation mark.\r\nWord # 2: the word is punctuated
    with shva na! + upper cantillation mark!  Without the custom mark (a circle around
    a small asterisk).\r\nWord # 3: the word is punctuated with shva na! + upper cantillation
    mark!  Without the custom mark (a circle around a small asterisk).\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-08 01:17:07'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> I think that my point is clear. So the automatic font vs. regular font
    \u2014 that\u2019s was my final word. Other things, subjects you\u2019re most
    welcome!\r\n\r\n        \"You say 'toe-may-toe' and I say 'toe-mah-toe'\" - Billie
    Holiday song\r\n\r\nI'm a Lubavitcher Chassidic Jew. People often accuse us of
    attributing messianic status to the late Lubavitcher Rebbe, even after his demise.
    They often ask, \"If somebody else declares himself the long awaited messiah,
    could you accept him?\" I say, \"Gladly.\"\r\n\r\nIf the kind of OpenType Biblical
    Font which you call 'regular', I can make 'automatic', could you, David, accept
    it?"
  created: '2008-08-08 01:50:57'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> I don\u2019t understand the nature of that defensive mood? (When I bemoan
    the incomplete knowledge of Biblical Hebrew grammatical rules..... ). Why did
    you say that?\r\n\r\nI am not being defensive.\r\n\r\nI am trying to very carefully
    show that utmost respect for great leaders and everyday folks who do have a knowledge
    of Biblical Hebrew grammatical rules.\r\n\r\nYet, there is so much more to know,
    so much so, that this that we do know now is insignificant by comparison with
    how much we don't know yet, and have still to uncover and know. \r\n\r\nBy having
    this honest attitude and realistic realization about what is still lacking, then
    we are capable of learning more.\r\n\r\nBut if we feel about ourselves and others,
    that we know it all, then we are not capable if learning more, because we won't
    even try, as we think that we know it all.\r\n\r\nDo you understand me now?"
  created: '2008-08-08 02:25:42'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "So what's true:\r\n\r\n\"Each time, shvah nah appeared, there never was one
    of the upper taamei mikra\" or not?\r\n\r\nKibbitzing minds want to know :) "
  created: '2008-08-08 02:49:46'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> Why I said that?\r\n> Let\u2019s have an example, explore your source:
    Shay La\u2019Morah. \r\n> BTW, which one do you have \u2014 Shay La\u2019Morah
    with Keter Torah, or Shay La\u2019Morah with Rashi commentary? etc.\r\n\r\nOne
    of my sons learn at a high school/yeshiva where Rabbi Winefield's (the author
    and publisher of the Shay La'Morah series)son is the administrator. When his son
    was born, Rabbi Winefield flew in for the brit-milah celebration from Jerusalem.
    In honor of the event, he gave all the participants a set of the 5 Books of Moses
    with Rashi. I don't know what is the Keter Torah edition.\r\n\r\nRabbi Winefield
    is not only a very learned writer, but a great scholar and well versed in the
    Biblical Hebrew grammatical rules. He applied one kind of rules for shvah-nah
    rules, which are usually applied for post-Biblical rules, to the text of the Bible.
    \r\n\r\nI believe no one has done this before. Are you aware of this being done
    in  any other Bible?"
  created: '2008-08-08 02:56:07'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> Exodus 17: 12.\r\nWord # 1: indeed there\u2019s a circle around a small
    asterisk + shva na + lower cantillation mark.\r\nWord # 2: the word is punctuated
    with shva na! + upper cantillation mark! Without the custom mark (a circle around
    a small asterisk).\r\nWord # 3: the word is punctuated with shva na! + upper cantillation
    mark! Without the custom mark (a circle around a small asterisk).\r\n\r\nYou can
    certainly find examples that I overlooked. More power to you. However, here was
    not the case (G-d does not want to fling mud in my face!)\r\n\r\nIn the two examples
    that you cite, there is no shvah-nah. \r\n\r\nAccording to the Biblical Hebrew
    grammatical rules for shvah-nah employed by Rabbi Winefield, Kehot (the huge Chabad/Lubavitch
    publishing house), and ArtScroll (the evedn huger and largesy Jewish publisher
    in the world), there is NEVER EVER a shvah-nah under the first letter of a Hebrew
    word.\r\n\r\nI believe you are confusing an ordinary shvah (which inmdicates to
    the reader ti make a very short sound of the consonant above it), and a true shvah-nah
    ( is a series of two sounds, a continuation of the consonant/vowel combination
    of the set in the Hebrew letter BEFORE the Hebrew letter with a shvah under it,
    AND ALSO the short sound of the Hebrew letter with a shvah under it.\r\n\r\nIn
    your example from Exodus 17:12, the word with a shvah-nah is pronounced \"tam-meh-chu\".
    If it were only an ordinary shvah, it would be pronounced \"tah-meh-chu\".\r\n\r\nThe
    reason why the latter two examples did not have a graphic symbol indicating a
    shvah-nah, a circle around a small asterisk, is because the shvah is an ordinary
    one, and not a shvah-nah."
  created: '2008-08-08 03:20:49'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Wllliam,\r\n\r\nIn my limited experience, I still have not discovered a shvah-nah
    in a place belonging to an upper taamei mikra.\r\n\r\nThis makes me suspect that
    there is a relationship between the appearance of a lower taamei mikra and the
    appearance of a shvah-nah, making the rule in Hebrew grammar even tighter, and
    hence easily to implement as an automatic feature in carefully crafted OpenType
    Biblical Hebrew font.\r\n\r\nThis is unlike David's assumption, that because the
    shvah-nah will appear a lot, it can not be incorporated as a rule in an OpenType
    table in an OpenType Biblical Hebrew font. \r\n\r\nJohn, what do you think?"
  created: '2008-08-08 03:34:34'
- author:
    name: JCSalomon
    picture: 128147
  body: "&emsp;My $0.02:&ensp;An initial <em>sheva</em> is always\xB9 <em>nah</em>,
    so it is simply not indicated.\r\n&emsp;Also, Israel:&ensp;I think you might be
    confusing the effect of <em>sheva nah</em> with that of the strong <em>dagesh</em>=<em>mapiq</em>
    (or weak <em>dagesh</em>; I can't recall which).&ensp;To abuse the word, Example
    1 as written \u201C\u05EA\u05BC\u05B8\u05BD\u05DE\u05B0\u05DB\u05A3\u05D5\u05BC\u201D
    would be pronounced \"tam-chu\"; if written \u201C\u05EA\u05BC\u05B8\u05BD\u05DE\u05B0\u05BF\u05DB\u05A3\u05D5\u05BC\u201D,
    \"ta-m\u0259-chu\"; if written \u201C\u05EA\u05BC\u05B8\u05BD\u05DE\u05BC\u05B0\u05BF\u05DB\u05A3\u05D5\u05BC\u201D,
    \"tam-m\u0259-chu\".&ensp;(Of course there are grammatical rules that say which
    pronounciation to apply to the unpunctuated word \u201C\u05EA\u05DE\u05DB\u05D5\u201D,
    and not every version is possible.)&ensp;Also, the sign above the <em>sheva</em>
    in the printed version is not what I'm used to seeing to indicate <em>sheva nah</em>:
    usually I see \u201C\u05DE\u05B0\u05BF\u201D (<em>mem</em>+<em>sheva</em>+<em>rafe</em>)
    rather than what looks like \u201C\u05DE\u05B0\u05AF\u201D (<em>mem</em>+<em>sheva</em>+<em>masora</em>-circle).\r\n&emsp;At
    any rate, I think a font is the wrong place for <em>sheva nah</em>/<em>nach</em>
    detection.&ensp;An external program can me much more intelligent & customizable
    to different rule-sets, while leaving the correct layout to the font.\r\n&emsp;(Furtive
    <em>patah</em> might be an exception: I believe the word \u201C\u05E0\u05B9\u05D7\u05B7\u201D
    (Noah) is supposed to be encoded <em>nun</em>+<em>holam</em>+<em>het</em>+<em>patah</em>
    rather than \u201C\u05E0\u05B9\u05B7\u05D7\u201D (<em>nun</em>+<em>holam</em>+<em>patah</em>+<em>het</em>);
    but detecting {<em>ayin</em>, <em>het</em>, <em>heh</em>+<em>mapiq</em>}+<em>patah</em>+word-end
    is relatively simple.&ensp;John's font does something like that, I believe.)\r\n<em>Shabbat
    Shalom</em>/<em>Gut Shabbos</em> and fast easy on Sunday,\r\n\u2014Joel\r\n\r\n1.
    Almost always; I\u2019ve heard a theory that the <em>sheva</em> at the begining
    of the word \u201C\u05E9\u05C1\u05B0\u05E0\u05B7\u05D9\u05B4\u05DD\u201D should
    be <em>nach</em>, but I don't know how much credence to give it."
  created: '2008-08-08 18:13:30'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Israel,\r\n\r\nWhat is your aim with this thread? A  week ago, more or less,
    you said that you don't know grammar. Now you are  an expert?  \r\n\r\nHere's
    \ your list, if you don't remember:\r\n\"Similar, I am interested in the various
    rules for shva-nah, shva-nach, komatz katan, komatz gadol, hataf komatz katan,
    hataf komatz gadol, and any other grammatical rules governing Hebrew.\"\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    According to the Biblical Hebrew grammatical rules for shvah-nah employed.....there
    is NEVER EVER a shvah-nah under the first letter of a Hebrew word.\r\n\r\nHere's
    the deal \u2014 otherwise don't waste my time. Please. OK? \r\n\r\n whenever you
    are going to talk/post/state anything and everything about grammar, rules etc
    etc \u2014 post a proof; source; link; an image.  \r\nLet's start with the new
    \"rule\": \r\n\"there is NEVER EVER a shvah-nah [ nah=nun, ayin]  under the first
    letter of a Hebrew word.\"\r\nPlease post the name of the book. Grammar book!!!
    \r\n\r\n> According to the Biblical Hebrew grammatical....\r\nWhere? Who? When?
    What? Why? \r\n\r\nPlease:  to the point. No stories. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nAnd please
    read the classic work (part of it).  Otherwise don't  waste my time. Really. \r\n\r\n1.
    Aharon Ben Asher \u2014 Diqduqe Hate'amim (Dotan Edition, 1967, 3 vol.   about
    the shva start with  pages: 29, 31-37, 76, 114, 126, 127, 189-191, 251-253). \r\n\r\n2.
    Judeo-Arabic treatise Hidayat al-Qari.\r\n\r\n3. David Kimhi (RaDaK)  \u2014  Michlol
    , Sefer Hashorashim\r\n\r\n4. Norzi \r\n\r\n5. Ibn Janah -- Sefer Ha-Riqmah. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-08 18:28:46'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "JCSalomon,\r\n\r\nThank you for your two cents... I have change of a nickel,
    if you want. I love to get rid of my pennies, those wretched useless things.\r\n\r\nWell,
    you say with absolute certainty that an ordinary shvah at the beginning of every
    word is always nah (nuhn + ayin). I say with absolute certainty that an ordinary
    shvah at the beginning of every word is always nach (nuhn + chet - a furtive patach,
    David?).\r\n\r\nWhat ia nah, and what is nach, you might wonder? Pray tell, whar
    is the meaning of this?\r\n\r\nNah means \"moving\", because it's transitionary
    between one letter before and the letter above it. I hope I'm right. Is G-d getting
    that mud ready to fling at my face?\r\n\r\nNach means \"resting\" or \"stationary\",
    because it only sit under and effects the pronunciation of the letter above it.
    Anyway, that's what I was taught (is the mud dripping down my shirt?).\r\n\r\nA
    proof can simply be found among the largest sets of Hebrew books with nikkud,
    the books of Kehot Publishing Company and that of ArtScroll/Mesorah, where no
    graphic symbol indicating a shvah-nah is ever used above the first letter of a
    Hebrew word indicating a shvah-nah and not an ordinary shvah.\r\n\r\n\r\nOn the
    other hand, you seem to understand the terms shvah-nah and shvah-nach differently
    than me. How do you understand it?\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-08 19:20:54'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> At any rate, I think a font is the wrong place for sheva nah/nach detection.\u2002An
    external program can me much more intelligent & customizable to different rule-sets,
    while leaving the correct layout to the font.\r\n\r\nI agree with you, and I disagree
    with you. (something admitting my lacking in knowledge of Hebrew grammar rules,
    while at the same time allowing myself to represent having some expertise in the
    subject). To me it's not a contradiction.\r\n\r\nI agree with you, regarding rules
    like dagesh, meteg etc., which should be delegating to the text entry and Unicode
    values.\r\n\r\nI disagree with you, regarding rules like furtive patach, shvah-nah,
    and maybe even kametz katan.\r\n\r\nThis is because if we delegate them to text
    entry and Unicode values (assuming shvah-nah gets a Unicode value, John), the
    hell will freeze over before the Tanach gets this stuff put into its data. Besides,
    most people (including both of us, David) don't know our shvah-nah, and maybe
    even kametz katan.\r\n\r\nHence, the simple easy and quick way is font-based."
  created: '2008-08-08 19:31:16'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> What is your aim with this thread?\r\n\r\nMy aim is include the typographically
    related issues of shvah-nah, kametz katan, and hataf kametz katan, to the creation
    of a carefully and intelligently crafted OpenType Biblical Hebrew font.\r\n\r\nJust
    like an amperstand is a vital part of every font, what is correct Biblical Hebrew
    in the Tanach, if shvah-nah, kametz katan, and hataf kametz katan, are missing?
    \r\n\r\nIt makes us look like \"the people of the comin book\"!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-08 19:37:18'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> A week ago, more or less, you said that you don\u2019t know grammar. Now
    you are an expert?\r\n\r\nBoy, I thought type designers had creative, flexible
    thinking.\r\n\r\nIt is explained by the Rebbe Reshab in the famous series of discourses
    called \"Ayin-Beis\" that the sign of a wise person is the ability to tolerate
    two opposites in his or her mind. \r\n\r\nPatiently, they consider how both ideas
    are true, and discover a novel way of understanding them that people didn't consider
    before.\r\n\r\nTo address your question, just because you tell others that you
    lack COMPLETE knowledge in a certain field, does not mean there are areas of knowledge
    in that same field that are \"givens\" for you, and you express them like an expert.\r\n\r\nIn
    my humble limited view, I don't think anyone alive today is an expert in Biblical
    Hebrew grammar. They all died and were buried."
  created: '2008-08-08 19:47:25'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> whenever you are going to talk/post/state anything and everything about
    grammar, rules etc etc \u2014 post a proof; source; link; an image.\r\n\r\nExcellent
    suggestion.1\r\n\r\n1. Laws of Derech Eretz; Pirkei Avot - Talmud"
  created: '2008-08-08 19:52:20'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> 1. Aharon Ben Asher \u2014 Diqduqe Hate\u2019amim (Dotan Edition, 1967,
    3 vol. about the shva start with pages: 29, 31-37, 76, 114, 126, 127, 189-191,
    251-253). etc. etc. etc.\r\n\r\nI am very impressed with your collection of books,
    and I am even more impressed am if you know them too. Few people have personal
    libraroes at their disposal with great collections of Hebrew books. My oldest
    son has a father-in-law that surely has at least double of what you have. In fact,
    I'll ask him if I could borrow these books.\r\n\r\n\r\n> 1. Aharon Ben Asher \u2014
    Diqduqe Hate\u2019amim (Dotan Edition, 1967, 3 vol. about the shva start with
    pages: 29, 31-37, 76, 114, 126, 127, 189-191, 251-253). etc. etc. etc.\r\n\r\nAre
    all of these on Biblical Hebrew grammar?\r\n\r\nI was told that there is also
    a view in a respected book on Biblical Hebrew grammar that shows how every Hebrew
    word that has a shvah at the beginning of that word, then that shvah is in deed
    a shvah-nah, just like JCSalomon suggests, and you cite from Aharon Ben Asher.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    this view appears not to be followed by three major Jewish publishers, Kehot,
    ArtScroll, and Shay LeMoreh. Apparently, it is a valid opinion, but not widely
    accepted and used. Hence, if I would include in an automatic OpenType Hebrew font
    one rule for  shva-nah or another, I would choose the widely accepted and used
    rule, and save the other room for a chat on Typophile.\r\n\r\n1. Logical deduction
    - Human brain."
  created: '2008-08-08 20:32:57'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> ...don\u2019t waste my time...\r\n\r\n\r\nYou reminded me of a line from
    a popular Dylan song:\r\n\r\n\r\n\"You just were wasting my precious time\r\n\r\nDon't
    think twice, it's alright\"\r\n\r\n\r\nDavid, I enjoy when you read and offer
    an insight. But no one is compelling you to read and waste your time.\r\n\r\nPerhaps,
    what I am saying contradicts a statement which you made. \r\n\r\nDon't get riled
    over that. There  are much more pressing issues to get riled about."
  created: '2008-08-08 20:45:36'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "More observations from the kibbitzer. \r\n\r\nAccording to what I was told
    the shva under a first letter is always a schva na, and so should be transliterated
    in English with an 'e'. But in fact Hebrew speakers today seem to avoid a spoken
    'shva' whenever possible. Thus it's normally said \"bracha\" (blessing) and not
    \"beracha.\" Though if you are singing or pronouncing it slowly a native might
    pronounce the shva, right?\r\n\r\nThe reason I say all this is that for the poor
    learner like me it's hard to tell what the heck is going on. \r\n\r\nI mention
    this because when you go to Biblical marks of vowels and cantillation, nobody
    knows what exactly was in the heads of the masorites who did it, as far as pronounciation.
    \ And we have different histories of ashkenasi, sfardic, yemeni, iraqi, etc. pronunciations
    of Hebrew just to confuse us further in trying to think about these issues. \r\n\r\nSo
    wouldn't just leaving the masorite marks as is, admitting we don't exactly know,
    be a better course of action, rather than trying to create a system of pronunciation
    that is not modern, nor do we really know whether it's ancient? \r\n\r\nI mean,
    Avot also says that the wise person when he doesn't know says, \"I don't know.\"\r\n\r\nShabbat
    Shalom"
  created: '2008-08-08 21:49:42'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Joel, I didn't see your post.\r\n\r\n> An initial sheva is always\xB9 nah
    \r\nYes, you're right.  This is the rule #1; every book will start with this rule.
    \ Here's a sample ( with nikud, since I know that a lot can't read without the
    nikud):\r\n [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Shava_6640.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\n>  so
    it is simply not indicated.\r\nIndeed. That's the reason.  This shva is the easy
    one. And it dosen't matter if we are talking about Modern or Biblical Hebrew.
    Things are more complicated,  or  there's a controversy (well, there's more than
    one) if we are talking, for example,  about initial shva  + meteg.  This issue
    is part of  the well known controversy between ben Asher and ben Naftali -- Kitab
    al-khilaf (edited by Misha'el ben Uzziel).  This is Hebrew-Arabic text: \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/BenAsher_5507.gif]\r\n>
    I\u2019ve heard a theory that the sheva at the begining of the word \u201C\u05E9\u05C1\u05B0\u05E0\u05B7\u05D9\u05B4\u05DD\u201D
    should be nach, but I don\u2019t know how much credence to give it.\r\nNot a theory,
    but there's a controversy. But with the word shetayim, sheteym 'esre etc etc.
    \ Prof. Blau talked about that issue. \r\n\r\n-------------\r\n\r\n>waste time.....\r\nsince
    sometimes this is like a conversation (deaf + blind) without language. I didn't
    say that I know everything. But when I don't know I'll never say that I know;
    If I'm not sure I'll say that. And you're saying that I don't know. And keeping
    saying: \r\n\"there is NEVER EVER a shvah-nah [ nah=nun, ayin]  under the first
    letter of a Hebrew word.\"\r\n\r\n----\r\nEdit: and I didn't see  your last post
    Israel, too. "
  created: '2008-08-08 22:27:08'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "William,\r\n\r\nRegardless of my perceived expertise, or ignorance (whatever
    it may be), I also never know what's going on. Btw, which way does the wind blow?\r\n\r\nI
    also searched on the Internet, and consulted knowledgeable friends (the very best
    source [everyone should have a Poindexter as a friend]), and the view stated emphatically
    that whenever there is shvah under the first letter of any Hebrew word, it is
    in fact a shvah-nah (and doesn't have any graphic symbol.\r\n\r\nYes, I was wrong.
    I admit it, the great me was wrong! Wrong, wrong, wrong!\r\n\r\nAs I wipe the
    mud away from my face, the grammatarian in me hides his face in shame, but the
    typesetter and type designer in me boldly declares, that the first letter of any
    Hebrew word that a shvah appears under it NEVER EVER has a graphic symbol indicating
    it is a shvah-nah, even though it is on deed a shvah-nah. \r\n\r\nConfusing? I
    dunno. I don't even know which way the wind blows.\r\n\r\nAh hah. I am wrong,
    but I am right!\r\n\r\nToe-may-toe, to-mat-toe. The automatic OpenType Biblical
    Hebrew font still breathes; it's not dead yet. Maybe, it never will be.\r\n\r\nShabbat
    shalom. For those that fast, have an easy fast!"
  created: '2008-08-08 22:58:00'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Are all of these on Biblical Hebrew grammar?\r\n\r\nI was told that...
    and you cite from Aharon Ben Asher.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nWell, yes. Grammar is grammar.
    But they are not \"How-To\" books :^).  For example, Ben Asher does not give you
    \ an A-To-Z list;\r\nHe didn't write  a concordance of the Bible :)\r\n\r\nShabbat
    Shalom\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2008-08-08 23:07:28'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Now that the wind is calm; Tisha Be'Av is over.........\r\n\r\n\r\n> But
    in fact Hebrew speakers today seem to avoid a spoken \u2019shva\u2019 whenever
    possible. Thus it\u2019s normally said \u201Cbracha\u201D (blessing) and not \u201Cberacha.\u201D\r\n\r\nRight.
    And one more example:  ge-do-lim -> gdo-lim. That's the spoken Hebrew. And I think
    that  the \u201Ctam-meh-chu\u201D or \u201Ctah-meh-chu\u201D is more an issue
    of the spoken Hebrew/tradition, since  this word  is composed of 2  syllables.\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \ And we have different histories of ashkenasi, sfardic, yemeni, iraqi, etc. pronunciations
    of Hebrew\r\n\r\nTrue. For example, the kamats  katan which was never part of
    the Tiberian vocalization system. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nDon't forget  that we're talking
    about Biblical grammar. That said,  nikud + cantillation!  We need to be aware
    of the fact that (just several examples of course) 1. a secondary  merekha could
    change shava nah (nun, het) to shava na (nun, ayin);\r\n 2. a meteg could change
    shva nah to shava na; \r\n3. an etnachta could change shava to segol \r\netc etc
    etc etc.\r\n\r\n(I'm talking about the same word!)\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-11 19:43:29'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\n> Don\u2019t forget that we\u2019re talking about Biblical
    grammar. That said, nikud + cantillation! We need to be aware of the fact that
    (just several examples of course) 1. a secondary merekha could change shava nah
    (nun, het) to shava na (nun, ayin);\r\n2. a meteg could change shva nah to shava
    na;\r\n3. an etnachta could change shava to segol\r\netc etc etc etc.\r\n\r\nFrom
    where do you derive this from? \r\n\r\nYour conclusions seem to be based on certain
    rules. Did you see these conclusions made in Shay LeMoreh books of Tanach (I have
    never seen shvah-nach and shva-na in any other Bible)."
  created: '2008-08-12 01:24:10'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> From where do you derive this from?\r\n\r\nThe moon :^) \r\n\r\nWe studied
    that since..... but see for example  Rabbi Menachem ben Saruk  -- Rashi frequently
    followed  ben Saruk;  Aharon Ben Asher \u2014 Diqduqe Hate\u2019amim;  Norzi etc
    etc etc. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n> Did you see these.....\r\n\r\nYou don't expect me to
    list every sample etc etc. The word keli (tool;utensil; weapon; etc etc etc):
    the base form of this word  is shva na + dagesh; hiriq. \r\nSample1: Num 19: 15\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/keli_4235.gif]\r\nSample
    2: 2 Kings 4:6\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/keli2_4296.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\nCheck
    every bible. Let us  know. "
  created: '2008-08-12 02:35:04'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nIt seems from your examples and citings that your conclusion
    that under certain conditions, taamei mikra affect nikkud, even causing some shvah-nachs
    to become transformed into shvah-nahs. \r\n\r\nDoes this occur on reverse? A shvah-nahs
    to become transformed into shvah-nach? \r\n\r\nCan you find an example, and then
    look it up in Shay LeMorah, and see whether Rabbi Winefeld replaces this too with
    a graphic element (the circle with a asterisk)?"
  created: '2008-08-12 03:49:48'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Can you find an example, and then look it up in Shay LeMorah, and see whether...
    \r\n\r\n\r\nAnd how do you like your coffee \u2014 with sugar and cream?  Anything
    else?  cake?   :^)\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-12 05:24:01'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nNo sugar. Cholov Yisroel non-fat milk. How about chocolate
    chip cookies, sugar-free please? I must watch my weight. \r\n\r\nBoy, not just
    a great type designer, but a mensch too!\r\n\r\nBut can he make coffee?"
  created: '2008-08-12 08:14:41'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Does this occur on reverse? A shvah-nahs to become transformed into shvah-nach?\r\n\r\nOf
    course. For example,  a shuruq  could change  that ( the shuruq is a  long vowel!!!,
    but then the shuruq is not a long vowel, but  a short vowel!!!)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-13 20:31:32'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Let's get back to: 1) the three graphic symbols for a shvah-nah (hei, not
    chet), 2) the komatz katan, with an extra long (downwards) center vertical stroke,
    or the 3) the hataf-komatz katan, with an extra long (downwards) center vertical
    stroke (sse Shay LeMorah publications, as I only found Rabbi Winefield indicating
    the rarely used hataf-komatz katan (I think the Koren Bible by Israeli type designer
    Mr. Eliyahu Koren a\"h)).\r\n\r\nYou said these three symbols can not be handled
    in a \"smart\" OpenType Biblical Hebrew font, similar to the furtive patach in
    John Hudson's SBL-Hebrew, because there are simply too many occurances of shvah-nah
    to do this.\r\n\r\nI disagree. Why?\r\n\r\nLike the rule of furtive patach, the
    rule of its replacement can be simply programmed, so too these three grammatical-based
    graphic substitutions would be replacement rule-based, and not have a gigantic
    exception table, as you assume.\r\n\r\nCan an exception rule for shvah-nah be
    defined, like the furtive patach?\r\n\r\nYou think not. John thinks not. I think
    yes. We \"frummies\" like to be different.\r\n\r\nAbout hataf-kometz katan, an
    exception table for every reference in Tanach could be constructed, but I think
    an exception rule could be defined, and even for the komatz katan.\r\n\r\nThe
    really great advantage of this besides the automatic feature which requires no
    input from the user, but all Unicode Biblical text would appear with the shvah-nah
    etc. graphic symbols, even if they don't exist as Unicode data in the text files.\r\n\r\nBecause
    of this great advantage, it is clearly worth the effort. As the Mishnah promises
    out of the ordinary success, \"yagata, matzata, taamin\", one who exerts much
    effort discovers \"where there is a will, there IS a way\".\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-20 23:45:52'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Let\u2019s get back to:\r\n\r\nWhy? :) Anything new? \r\n\r\n\r\n>  1)
    the three graphic symbols for a shvah-nah (hei, not chet)\r\n\r\nAyin not hei;
    nun + he is not a nice word (slang).\r\n\r\n\r\n> Shay LeMorah publications, as
    I only found Rabbi Winefield\r\n\r\nDo you have any samples? would you mind to
    post a sample (or two) \u2014 something from Psalms, Judges, Jeremiah.\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \ similar to the furtive patach\r\n> Like the rule of furtive patach, the rule
    of its replacement can be simply programmed\r\n> Can an exception rule for shvah-nah
    be defined, like the furtive patach?\r\n\r\nSo the furtive patach is an automatic
    feature \"which requires no input from the user\"? \r\nIf yes (no input from the
    user)  would you mind to show us how? you have here 6 words; would you mind to
    add the furtive patach? \r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/WordsHebr_6568.gif]"
  created: '2008-08-22 00:11:28'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\n>> > 1) the three graphic symbols for a shvah-nah (hei, not
    chet)\r\n\r\n >   Ayin not hei; nun + he is not a nice word (slang).\r\n\r\n\r\nAyin
    not hei. Silly was I; I translated the nah sound to conclude with a hei, without
    thinking about the Hebrew spelling.\r\n\r\nNah, of course, ends with an ayin,
    for the word nah means 'transentory' or 'moving' or 'traveling'.\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    So the furtive patach is an automatic feature \u201Cwhich requires no input from
    the user\u201D?\r\n\r\nYes, but the data must be Unicode, and only 5 OpenType
    Hebrew fonts feature them. The rule was programmed through a group effort.\r\n\r\nI
    can post three samples, as there are three different graphic symbols, from three
    different publishers respectively.\r\n\r\n\r\n> If yes (no input from the user)
    would you mind to show us how? \r\n\r\nI can post three examples, with a hei,
    chet, and ayin.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n> you have here 6 words; would you mind to add
    the furtive patach? \r\n\r\n\r\nThese six words do not feature the need for a
    furtive patach.\r\n\r\nAs I understand it, a furtive patach can only appear under
    a\r\nhei, chet, and ayin, when one of them appears at the end of a word, if the
    previous letter and nikud was a certain kind. I am unsure what that is.\r\n\r\nThe
    Koren Bible from the great Israeli type designer and grammaratarian Mr. Eliyahu
    Koren a\"h featured the furtive patach in his Bible. So did JPS. Also, Christian
    publishers use it as well. Others do not, and not in the early 1800's as well.
    I was told that the furtive patach is discussed in books of the Rishonim, the
    very early post-Talmudic Jewish sages.\r\n\r\nAs I said, I can post three examples,
    with a hei, chet, and ayin."
  created: '2008-08-22 00:46:22'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> I can post three samples, as there are three different graphic symbols,
    from three different publishers respectively.\r\n\r\nI'm talking about SBL Hebrew
    and furtive patach; would you mind to show us with these six words?\r\n\r\n\r\nBTW,
    If you're not sure  how do you know that  \"These six words do not feature the
    need for a furtive patach\"?"
  created: '2008-08-22 01:07:10'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> I\u2019m talking about SBL Hebrew and furtive patach; would you mind to
    show us with these six words?\r\n\r\nIt seems you believe that there is a rule
    for furtive patach to position the patach under the character on the right EVEN
    for situations where the patach is in the miuddle of the word.\r\n\r\nThe way
    I understand, the furtive patach is ONLY when the patach occurs on te last letter
    of the word.\r\n\r\nMaybe, I'm wrong. Maybe, you refer to a diffewrent rule. Let's
    flip... :)\r\n\r\n\r\n> BTW, If you\u2019re not sure how do you know that \u201CThese
    six words do not feature the need for a furtive patach\u201D?\r\n\r\nI don't know
    for sure, of course.\r\n\r\nI'll check though, as I have all the Unicode data
    for the Tanach."
  created: '2008-08-22 03:23:43'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "According to the way I understand it, a furtive patach is alternative form
    of the regular patach, but only moved over towards the extreme right.\r\n\r\nUsually,
    a patach is a nikkud vowel symbol which is pronounced AFTER the consonant, i.e.
    the Hebrew letter positioned above the nikkud vowel symbol.\r\n\r\nHowever, in
    the case of the furtive patach, this nikkud vowel symbol which is pronounced BEFORE
    the consonant, i.e. the Hebrew letter positioned above the nikkud vowel symbol.\r\n\r\nHere
    is an example:\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Noah_6015.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nFrankReuhl
    GH (OpenType)"
  created: '2008-08-22 16:58:24'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Normally, the patach is a nikkud symbol, representing a \"ah\" sound following
    after a consonant, as in this example:\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Nachat_4753.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nHere,
    there are three letters (constanants) - nuhn, chet, and tav - and two vowels -
    two patachs. After each of the first two letters are the two vovels. It is pronounced:
    nah-chat. As usually, the vowel is pronounced after the letter.\r\n\r\nn+ah and
    ch+a+t\r\n\r\nHowever, in the case of the furtive patach, the vowel is pronounced
    BEFORE the leter.\r\n\r\nah-ch"
  created: '2008-08-22 17:51:48'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "How does a carefully crafted OpenType Biblical font, like FrankReuhl GH (OT)
    from GoHebrew treat a patach?\r\n\r\nNormally, the user would key in or import
    the desired data. Then, the kerning for the patach would need to adjusted, so
    that the patach would appear on the extreme right side.\r\n\r\nUsing FrankReuhl
    GH (OT), the process is automatic. The user does not need to kern the patach to
    the right, nor he or she does not even have to know when to apply the rule of
    furtive patach or not.\r\n\r\nHere is an example of a word without a furtive patach
    (right), and one with it (left).\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/NoahNoah_5652.jpg]"
  created: '2008-08-22 18:06:14'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Circles & circles :)\r\n\r\nYou're saying that you want an automatic feature
    like the furtive patach  \u2014 SBL Hebrew: \"Whether the typesetter or user knows
    this Hebrew grammar rule of not, the furtive patach automatically appears of the
    condition arises.\"\r\n\r\nI don't understand what's the big deal with my sample
    \u2014 these six words;  Just add the  furtive patach since  \"whether the typesetter
    or user knows this Hebrew grammar rule of not, the furtive patach automatically
    appears of the condition arises\"; \"which requires no input from the user\".
    \  To say it again? \r\n\r\n> Using FrankReuhl GH (OT), the process is automatic.
    The user does not need to kern the patach to the right, nor he or she does not
    even have to know when to apply the rule of furtive patach or not.\r\n\r\nGreat.
    Use these 6 words. And if you don't mind I have more words. \r\n\r\n> The Koren
    Bible from the great Israeli type designer and grammaratarian Mr. Eliyahu Koren
    a\u201Dh featured the furtive patach in his Bible. \r\n\r\nEli Koren was a type
    designer. A graphic designer. A typographer. From where the \"grammaratarian\"
    came from? \r\n He worked with Abraham  Haberman, Daniel Goldschmidt  & Meir Medan.
    \r\nMedan , for example, was the grammar expert, linguist  expert (BTW, his son
    is a well known figure: Rabbi Yaakov Medan). \r\n\r\nI know what is furtive patach.
    I'm glad to see that you're trying, but I hope that you're going to write  a grammar
    book, or teach it. \r\n"
  created: '2008-08-22 18:39:53'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "A shvah-nauh is a special form of the nikkud vovel shvah.\r\n\r\nA shvah
    is simply two dots, one on top of another, positioned under the letter, like most
    nikkud vowels. The shvah symbol is for a full stop and only a slight or short
    pronunciation of the sound associated with the constanant poitioned above it.\r\n\r\n\r\nA
    shvah-nauh has the very same graphic form as the shvah. However, another graphic
    symbol appears, positioned above the Hebrew letter constanant in the center.\r\n\r\nHere
    is a sample of two kinds of geraphic symbols to indicate a shah-nauh. There are
    two kinds of graphic symbols, because two major publishers identify it differently.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/SHVAH-NAUH_4258.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nSome
    publishers depict a shvah-nauygh using a straight horizontal line, based upon
    the identical graphic of one of the upper taamei mikra.\r\n\r\nThis approach has
    two short-comings:\r\n1) The reader can confuse the shvah-nauh with one of the
    taamei mikra;\r\n2) This graphic symbol looks strange positioned above the narrow
    width chareacters.\r\n\r\nThe second approach avoids these problems by using the
    graphic symbol of a small zero-width or floating asterisk.\r\n\r\nA third graphic
    symbol is from Shai Lemorah publishers, which places a circle around the floating
    asterisk, so it should not be confused with an ordinary asterisk, or to draw stronger
    attention to itself."
  created: '2008-08-22 18:57:47'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\n> I don\u2019t understand what\u2019s the big deal with my
    sample \u2014 these six words; Just add the furtive patach since \u201Cwhether
    the typesetter or user knows this Hebrew grammar rule of not, the furtive patach
    automatically appears of the condition arises\u201D; \u201Cwhich requires no input
    from the user\u201D. To say it again? \r\n\r\nThe automatic furtive patach in
    SBL-Hebrew, FrankReuhl GH (OT), FrankReuhl-Bold GH (OT), Henri (named for the
    great Israeli type designer Mr. Henri Friedlander a\"h of the Hadasa Printing
    Scool, creator of the Hadasa typeface - Henri is an approved rendition of Hadasa))
    GH (OT), Henri-Bold GH (OT) etc. only works correctly when a rule for the furtive
    patach apples. If the rule oes not apply, this, David, is why it can not appears
    in the words that you presented."
  created: '2008-08-22 19:16:35'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> Great. Use these 6 words. And if you don\u2019t mind I have more words\r\n\r\nBut
    these don't require a furtive patach."
  created: '2008-08-22 19:19:14'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> But these don\u2019t require a furtive patach.\r\n\r\nWhat do you care?
    if this is an automatic feature, \"nor he or she does not even have to know when
    to apply the rule of furtive patach or not\";  let the font to do it, the font
    knows, right? \r\n\r\n\r\nYour sample -- nishmati -- is from where? which book,
    verse?"
  created: '2008-08-22 19:24:41'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\n> Eli Koren was a type designer. A graphic designer. A typographer.
    From where the \u201Cgrammaratarian\u201D came from?\r\nHe worked with Abraham
    Haberman, Daniel Goldschmidt & Meir Medan.\r\nMedan , for example, was the grammar
    expert, linguist expert (BTW, his son is a well known figure: Rabbi Yaakov Medan).
    \r\n\r\nI thought like you too.\r\n\r\nKoreen Publishing was purchased by another
    firm. In addition to creating a special typeface only for their Bible (based upon
    drawings of Ashkenazic sources), contravercial rules for Hebrew grammar were introduced
    as well. This was attributed to Mr. Koren. You say differently. I think you're
    right, and they're mistaken, confusing the name of the company with the details
    of contraversy maker."
  created: '2008-08-22 19:25:14'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> contravercial rules for Hebrew grammar were introduced as well. This was
    attributed to Mr. Koren. You say differently...\r\n\r\nI'm sorry but I didn't
    say that. And I didn't say what Eli Koren knew or didn't. And I don't know about
    \ \"contravercial rules....\"\r\n\r\n\r\nWhat about my last post? "
  created: '2008-08-22 20:33:12'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nI see you and I define our terms differently.\r\n\r\nTo you,
    an \"automatic furtive furtive patach\" means that the user can automatically
    hit a button called \"automatic\" and the the ptach (which usually be placed in
    the centers on the level of most other nikkud, will move over to the extreme right.\r\n\r\nTo
    me, and as OpenType treats it, automatic means the default, whenever the situation
    and context are such that the rules of a furtive patach apply. \r\n\r\nSo, the
    default when the rules don't apply is an ordinaery patach, and the default when
    the rules do apply is a furtive patach to appear instead of the ordinary.\r\n\r\nThis
    is called \"automatic subsitution\".\r\n\r\nWhat you desire is to override the
    default.\r\n\r\nHere are some examples of what you want:\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/samples-1_3526.jpg]"
  created: '2008-08-22 20:53:24'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nWhat you should understand, though, is that the examples in
    the way you desire are not correct. Its like having the word, \"cat\" and pronouncing
    it wrong, like \"act\"."
  created: '2008-08-22 21:06:21'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Returning to the original subject, I seek to create a set of OpenType Hebrew
    fonts using the substitution and replacement features in a creative way.\r\n\r\nOnce
    the grammatical rule for shvah-nauh, komatz katan, and hataf-komatz katan can
    be simply defined, so the context of when either one occurs is defined, then the
    substitution/replacement will occur, with a one-for-one, or two-for-one glyph
    replacement (as in the case of shvah-nauh.\r\n\r\nDoes anyone know the contextual
    rules for shvah-nauh, komatz katan, and hataf-komatz kata, i.e. when they happen,
    and in what context?"
  created: '2008-08-22 21:15:02'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> What you should understand, though, is that the examples in the way you
    desire are not correct.\r\n\r\nhuh? what is my way? I just asked you to add it.
    \r\nSo, your sample are fine? with the right furtive patach even \"these don\u2019t
    require a furtive patach\", as you think/said before? "
  created: '2008-08-22 21:27:17'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> To you, an \u201Cautomatic furtive furtive patach\u201D means that the
    user can automatically \r\n\r\nThat is why the right term is  diacritic positioning,
    and not an automatic feature!!! (\"nor he or she does not even have to know when
    to apply the rule of furtive patach or not.\" !?!?)\r\n\r\nBut that was a nice
    experience.  \r\n\r\n\r\nFirst, was the issue of the shava na. Now this is the
    furtive patach. \r\n\r\n> These six words do not feature the need for a furtive
    patach.\r\n\r\n Here's the 4th word \u2014 Koren Bible (1st,2nd,3rd -- without;
    the rest with furtive patach):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Fpatach_3430.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\nAs
    Bill said : Avot also says that the wise person when he doesn\u2019t know says,
    \u201CI don\u2019t know.\u201D\r\n\r\n\r\nGood luck. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-22 22:27:37'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\n> And I don\u2019t know about \u201Ccontravercial rules....\u201D\r\n\r\nIn
    Israel, two Jewish Tanach standards are popular, besides the kinds of editions
    traditionally used in the US.\r\n\r\nIn Israel, the Mizrachi or Modern Orthodox,
    and very modern Israelis, prefer the Koren edition, which besides following certain
    modern grammar rules, caters too to Christian readers because of certain linguistic
    issues that they prefwer, and to modern Israelis as well because either prayer
    added or modifyed to acknowledge the State of Israel or the well-being of the
    soldiers of the IDF (in the siddur).\r\n\r\nMany heredi (ultra-0rthodox) Israelis
    prefer rather the more traditional Breuer's edition, which do not have these non-traditional
    features.\r\n\r\nKoren, though he himself was strictly Orthodox, his views on
    Hebrew grammar were a sythasis of his own logic, modern rules, and Jewish tradition.
    For this reason, he was strongly rejected by tradition enthusiasts.\r\n\r\nThere
    is a cute story about him that occurred on Friday afternoon. As the Sabbath ame
    closer, Koren would gather up the printed work sheets to proof-read from the other
    Jewish workers. He wanted that they would not mark their corrections on the printed
    work sheets at home on the Sabbath, when writing was prohibited for Jews. He knew
    the workers were not Sabbath observant, and want his bible not to have any remote
    association with the violation of the Sabbath."
  created: '2008-08-22 22:56:47'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\n> Here\u2019s the 4th word...\r\n\r\nSo you mean, under the
    LAST letter, which is blank in your example, let a furtive patach appear in that
    empty space.\r\n\r\nThat's what you mean.\r\n\r\nAvot says: \"David, try to be
    clearer.\" :)"
  created: '2008-08-22 23:02:50'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\n> What about my last post?\r\n\r\nIs everything clear now?"
  created: '2008-08-22 23:06:03'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "It seems that your understanding of how a furtive patach is formed in certain
    OpenType Biblical Hebrew fonts, such as SBL-Hebrew, FrankReuhl GH, and others,
    is different that my understanding.\r\n\r\nAccording to my understanding, a similar
    approach can be made for shvah-nauh, komatz katan, and hataf-komatz katan.\r\n\r\nIf
    it can, knowledge of these rules will increase.\r\n\r\nMy conclusion is that although
    you are clearly a talented type designer, a very knowledgeable reseacher, but
    you do not know advanced OpenType for Biblical Hebrew well, or even less than
    well.\r\n\r\nThis reminds me of an event which occurred about 15 years ago when
    I received an instruction from the late seventh Lubavitcher Rebbe to include the
    notations and novellae Torah of his predecessors and his own on the very front
    pages of a new proposed edition of the Talmud I proposed to create.\r\n\r\nThe
    chief librarian of the central Lubavitch library, one of the greatest libraries
    of Judaica in the world, refused to believe any such thing existed, and was dreamed
    up by the Rebbe as a result of his stoke.\r\n\r\nWhen I persisted to uncover these
    materials, he ridiculed me. I ridiculed him back, for lacking in belief that such
    a thing existed without his brilliant knowledge.\r\n\r\nOne day, he called me
    up at my office and just got to the point, without any introduction or niceties.
    \"I believe nothing exists, and call you an ignoramus. You believe something exists,
    and call me an deven bigger fool. Well, I hope you're right!\""
  created: '2008-08-22 23:47:39'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Here are two examples of a situation use of the furtive patach. In the above
    example, in the Hebrew word for Joshua, highlighted in yellow, the OpenType feature
    of automatic contextual diacritic placement of the furtive patach is turned on.
    In the below example, in the Hebrew word for Joshua, highlighted in yellow, the
    OpenType feature of automatic contextual diacritic placement of the furtive patach
    is turned off. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/joshua 1_4694.jpg]"
  created: '2008-08-23 00:46:34'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> My conclusion is that... you do not know advanced OpenType for Biblical
    Hebrew well, or even less than well.\r\n\r\nDo you know the story (Talmud, Shabbat
    31a) about Hillel, Shammai, the guy and the whole \"teach me the entire Torah
    while I am standing on one leg\" ? \r\n\r\nDo you know what Hillel told that guy,
    or why he could not  do that: You need to treat others the way you want to be
    treated.\r\n\r\nMy conclusion is that: if you don't want to be here by yourself,
    posting to yourself  \u2014 treat others the way you want to be treated. And think
    before posting!!!\r\n\r\n\xE0 propos  OpenType. Before  lecturing about advanced
    OpenType for Biblical Hebrew,  At least  fix the most basic & simple OT feature:
    the marks  collide with each other!!!\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Hebr1_5874.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    In Israel, two Jewish Tanach standards are popular, besides the kinds of editions
    traditionally used in the US\r\n\r\nNo need to tell me that. I was born there;
    lived there till I moved to the US; And I know every story & gossip!!!"
  created: '2008-08-23 03:55:05'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nI am sorry that you were offended by my comment. Keeping this
    in mind, I will try to think before I speak to you, or to anyone.\r\n\r\nA fascinating
    lesson is taught among the Chassidim (it may also exist among other groups as
    well) that G-d placed two objects to filter speech between the tongue and the
    ears:\r\n1) teeth; and\r\n2) lips.\r\n\r\nIf we say something we might regret,
    we can clamp down the teeth, or if its later than that, we can close the lips
    to keep the words in.\r\n\r\nRegarding your graphic example of the holam ne'e'lam
    belonging to the lamed, and appearing above the right side of the top of the following
    letter.\r\n\r\nIn this case, the following letter is the shin, which has its own
    dot on the top right. Two dots can not occupy the same space.\r\n\r\nIn tradition
    Hebrew typography, one dot was ommitted, leaving one single dot to share two tasks:
    one task being a holan ne'e'lam for the lamed, and the second task to indicate
    that the shin is in deed a shin, and not a sihn.\r\n\r\nIn some forms of modern
    typograpgy, using the PC-based TAG typesetting software, one dot can not be elemanated,
    leaving two dots almost besides each other, overlapping or colliding.\r\n\r\nIn
    my mind, this is unacceptable. The reader sees something unusual, unlike traditional
    books, and the collision is ugly. Although two separate dots is in deed more correct,
    I think it's prefered to follow the logic of traditional typesetters (which I
    chose); or perhaps, it's better to create a CPOS substitution where the collision
    is avoided, or a dedicated ligature.\r\n\r\nWhat do you think, David?"
  created: '2008-08-24 02:41:17'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nHere are samples in FrankReuhl GH, an advanced OpenType font,
    with the SBL-Hebrew-like furtive patach for the chet, dotted hei, and ayin, when
    a patach occurs at the end of a word.\r\n\r\nNotice, the ayin changes its shape
    whether there's a nikkud under it or not.\r\n\r\nA dotted hei at the end of a
    word indicates an indirect pronoun in a feminine form, and not an ordinary dagesh.
    Is the hei under it indicative of \"towards\" or \"to\", it pertains to something
    else?\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/examples_6139.jpg]"
  created: '2008-08-24 04:29:18'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Notice, the ayin changes its shape whether there\u2019s a nikkud under it
    or not.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/als_4748.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nfrom
    Henri GH (named after the late Mr. Henri Friedlander a\"h, Israeli designer of
    the popular Hadasa typeface)"
  created: '2008-08-24 05:43:44'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Another example from Merubaat GH, featuring both the folded ayin, and the
    folded lamed, based upon the Talmud typeface from the famous Romm family printing
    press of Vilna, Lithuania:\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/las_5365.jpg]"
  created: '2008-08-24 06:52:17'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "A question from the kibbitzer. \r\n\r\nFrom what I see on the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Niqqud|wikipedia
    article niqqud]], it seems like the patach is always pronounced before a final
    consonant ayin, chet, and hey with a dagesh in it. \r\n\r\nIf this is a rule without
    exceptions, what is the point of representing the patach differently in these
    situations? I can see the point of distinguishing the shva na and shva nach in
    the middle of words, as the rules are complicated, and hard to remember. But here
    it's simple and without exceptions, so I don't get the advantage of a different
    visual representation.  "
  created: '2008-08-24 14:52:04'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Williuam,\r\n\r\n> If this is a rule without exceptions, what is the point
    of representing the patach differently in these situations? I can see the point
    of distinguishing the shva na and shva nach in the middle of words, as the rules
    are complicated, and hard to remember. But here it\u2019s simple and without exceptions,
    so I don\u2019t get the advantage of a different visual representation.\r\n\r\nI
    think this is a very good and valid question.\r\n\r\nI have seen the furtive patach
    in the Koren Bible, Chumash learning books from Feldhein Publishers, and I am
    told it's in the JTS Bible and Chistian Hebrew Bibles.\r\n\r\nIt is not in traditional
    Jewish Bibles, ArtScroll bible books, nor those from other recent-day Jewish publishers,
    including the Shay LeMorah publishing house of Rabbi Weinfield, who is careful
    to add the shvah-nagh, komatz katan, and hataf komatz katan.\r\n\r\nLogically,
    it is not necessary, so you're right. But it is helpful to us forgetful readers
    (we're growing in numbers)."
  created: '2008-08-24 16:02:49'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> From what I see on the wikipedia article niqqud, it seems like the patach
    is always pronounced before a final consonant ayin, chet, and hey with a dagesh
    in it.\r\n\r\nBill,\r\n\r\nThe part about furtive patach/patach isn't so accurate.
    See my post (3.Aug.2008):\r\n\"The Rule:\LFurtive patach is an a vowel that is
    added to the 3 gutturals: het, he & ayin only when it\u2019s preceded by a vowel
    other than a \u2014 you don\u2019t want to apply the rule to any word-final het,
    he & ayin.\"\r\n\r\nThat is why, Israel, no furtive patach here: [img:sites/default/files/old-images/NoFP_6370.gif]\r\n\r\nThe
    Aleppo Codex  shows clearly furtive patach. And  there are couple  of   'rules'
    that we don't follow now days.  The Leningrad Codex is identical to AC. The Cairo
    Ms. of the Prophets #22 is identical to AC, but the furtive patach is a little
    bit more to the right. \r\n(However, there is a controversy about furtive patach
    and pashta. But this is a different story.)\r\n\r\n\r\nBibles with or without
    furtive patach to the right (not the whole list, of course):\r\nAdi \u2014 since
    day one, with furtive patach to the right (Dotan was the editor only around the
    1970s)\r\nBreuer (1989) \u2014 without; but Jerusalem Crown with furtive patach
    to the right.\r\nSnaith,  Ginsburg, Cassuto  & Hartom \u2014 without.\r\n\r\nSo,
    there's no right or wrong. But, as I said, you don\u2019t want to apply the rule
    to any word-final het, he & ayin!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-25 00:21:28'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I've searched and I haven't found yet. My teacher would simply say that I
    REALLY didn't yet search adequately.\r\n\r\nThe shvah-nagh must also follow such
    a rule: that under these conditions, these letters and these vowels, the symbol
    for shah-nagh is added above the letter that has a shvah-nagh under it.\r\n\r\nThe
    OpenType feature would do a contextual replacement of one shvah under such conditions,
    for two glyphs: an ordinary shvah and a graphic symbol for a shvah-nagh.\r\n\r\nThe
    same with , and again for hataf-komatz katan.\r\n\r\nDavid, is this so much to
    ask for?"
  created: '2008-08-25 01:44:46'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> I\u2019ve searched and I haven\u2019t found yet.\r\n> David, is this so
    much to ask for?\r\n\r\nIsrael,\r\n\r\nYou're looking for what? what is so much
    to ask for?"
  created: '2008-08-25 19:52:23'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Shvah-nauh\r\n==========\r\nThe shvah-nauh must also follow such a rule:
    that under these conditions, these letters and these vowels, the symbol for shah-nauh
    is added above the letter that has a shvah-nagh under it.\r\n\r\nThe OpenType
    feature would do a contextual replacement of one shvah under such conditions,
    for two glyphs: an ordinary shvah and a graphic symbol for a shvah-nauh.\r\n\r\nKomatz
    Katan\r\n=============\r\nThe same with komatz katan.\r\n\r\nHataf-Komatz Katan\r\n==================\r\nThe
    same with hataf-komatz katan."
  created: '2008-08-26 00:45:57'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Ahh, I see.\r\n\r\n> the symbol for shah-nauh is added above the letter that
    has a shvah-nagh under it.\r\n\r\nThis is an editorial decision. This isn't part
    of the nikud & cantillation system.  \r\n\r\nFurtive Patach is a little bit more
    simple since we know that there are 3 gutturals. But shva is a little bit more
    complicated. There's no one rule. There's a chain reaction!!!\r\n\r\nIn order
    to talk or to know what is shav na (and nach) we need to know about syllabic stress
    --  mille'el & millera'; open & closed syllables; dagesh kal & hazak. And more,
    of course. \r\n\r\nThere are things more complicated. For example, shva  -- na
    or nach -- is affected by retracted accent.  In order to understand what is retracted
    accent you (not you in person) have to know the grammar of the cantillation!!!\r\n\r\nSee
    the example: the shva under the letter dalet is na (nun, ayin)!!! \r\nbut when
    we read or study the whole verse  we are about to discover that the shva is nach!!!
    why? since of the the retracted accent.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Dalet-shva_4341.gif]"
  created: '2008-08-26 01:25:14'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "David, thanks. I haven't been following the thread in detail, so I missed
    your clear rule, above. \r\n\r\nAs a middle level student of Hebrew, the most
    frustrating part for me when it comes to pronunciation is where the accent goes,
    as dictionaries don't seem to indicate this. And as far as the the shva in the
    middle of the word, there seem to be no end of rules as to whether it is a shva
    na or shva nach! So it would helpful to us non-native speakers to have this indicated.
    My own rule of thumb is just treat everything as a schva nach if I possibly can,
    and if not then it's a shva na, and I pronounce it.  "
  created: '2008-08-26 16:27:33'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I confess that much of what you say is like Greek to me, as they say.\r\n\r\nYou
    seem to understand what you are talking about (unlike my earlier incorrect conclusion).\r\n\r\nIn
    summary, you seem to suggest that the word with a shva (na or nach) is very complex.
    It is not only affected by the kind of letter ansd nikkud which preceded it, but
    that previous letter and nikkud is also affected by that which precedes them as
    well. Hence, it's a chain reaction...\r\n\r\nNevertheless, there must be a clearly
    defined logic (aren't I obstinant? :) ). Even if the OpenType font has two or
    more consecutive contextual replacements for single shva-na because of the repeated
    conditions, then so be it. (So, the font is a few k bigger, and a second slower
    to process.)\r\n\r\nSimilarly, I am certain that the same procedures can be done
    for komatz katan and for hataf komatz katan.\r\n\r\nIf I am successful, I believe
    that learning and using these rules will become more common, and widespread.\r\n\r\nWhat
    I found very fascinating in your recent and some of your earlier posts in a description
    of how one taam can predict the identity of the next one. I want to learn more
    about this in depth.\r\n\r\nLikewise, the Talmud describes how Rabbi Akiva taught
    the meaning of the taggim (the ornaments on certain letters in a Torah scroll).
    I want very much to understand this well, as there must be a direct relationship
    between particular taggim over certain letters, and particular taamin over these
    same letters as well.\r\n\r\nAre you familiar with specific books or scholars
    that deal with this in detail?"
  created: '2008-08-26 16:46:04'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> And as far as the the shva in the middle of the word, there seem to be
    no end of rules as to whether it is a shva na or shva nach! So it would helpful
    to us non-native speakers to have this indicated\r\n\r\nBill,\r\nI hear you. I
    think it's safe to say than even native speakers  face the same problem. Once
    they're done with the final exam...that's it (much like trigonometry \u2014 now
    this  is Chainise to me). When you're around the subject almost 24/7 for many
    years \u2014 this is like second nature (even as a student  I was a private tutor
    \u2014 students + high school students).   \r\nAnd don't forget the shva merahef
    (hovering, hovers between voiced  & silent shva)   :^)\r\nI think this is the
    responsibility of the publisher and/or the editor \"to have this indicated.\"\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n>Are
    you familiar with specific books or scholars that deal with this in detail?\r\n\r\nIsrael,\r\n
    With what? taggim? \r\n"
  created: '2008-08-26 20:20:01'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> Are you familiar with specific books or scholars that deal with this in
    detail?\r\n\r\n>  Israel,\r\n>  With what? taggim?\r\n\r\n\r\nAllow me to rephrase:
    Are you familiar with specific books or scholars that deal with defining the rules
    of  \r\na) shva-na in detail,\r\nb) komatz katan,\r\nc) hataf komatz katan ?\r\n\r\nI
    know that there are different sets of rules for shva-na, but most Orthodox publishers
    follow only one set of rules. I am only interested in that one.\r\n\r\n\r\nWilliam,\r\n\r\nMany
    nativwe speakers do not make any pronunciation difference between shva-na and
    shva-nach, as David mentioned. But two wrongs don't make a right, as they say.
    I really think that they don't even know there is a difference.\r\n\r\nOnly some
    Orthodox readers are careful to make a distiction, but many are aware that there
    is a difference. \r\n\r\nMost Orthodox publishers print either an asterisk or
    a short horizontal line above the letter, to indicate that the shvah below the
    letter is in deed a shvah-na.\r\n\r\nI don't think the Rabbinic Assembly (the
    Convervative prayerbook), the Reform, or JTS, make this distinction. I don't believe
    the Chistians (Southern Baptists and Catholics) do this as well. I may be wrong
    though.\r\n\r\nI guess the only way to pronounce Hebrew correctly is to become
    Orthodox. :)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-26 22:02:45'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> Are you familiar with specific books or scholars that deal with this in
    detail?\r\n\r\n>  Israel,\r\n>  With what? taggim?\r\n\r\n\r\nAllow me to rephrase:
    Are you familiar with specific books or scholars that deal with defining the rules
    of  \r\na) shva-na in detail,\r\nb) komatz katan,\r\nc) hataf komatz katan ?\r\n\r\nI
    know that there are different sets of rules for shva-na, but most Orthodox publishers
    follow only one set of rules. I am only interested in that one.\r\n\r\n\r\nWilliam,\r\n\r\nMany
    nativwe speakers do not make any pronunciation difference between shva-na and
    shva-nach, as David mentioned. But two wrongs don't make a right, as they say.
    I really think that they don't even know there is a difference.\r\n\r\nOnly some
    Orthodox readers are careful to make a distiction, but many are aware that there
    is a difference. \r\n\r\nMost Orthodox publishers print either an asterisk or
    a short horizontal line above the letter, to indicate that the shvah below the
    letter is in deed a shvah-na.\r\n\r\nI don't think the Rabbinic Assembly (the
    Convervative prayerbook), the Reform, or JTS, make this distinction. I don't believe
    the Chistians (Southern Baptists and Catholics) do this as well. I may be wrong
    though.\r\n\r\nI guess the only way to pronounce Hebrew correctly is to become
    Orthodox. :)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-26 22:02:45'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> I know that there are different sets of rules for shva-na, but most Orthodox
    publishers follow only one set of rules. I am only interested in that one.\r\n\r\n\r\nIsrael,\r\n\r\nI
    think that you are missing something. This is an editorial decision. Maybe contact
    the publisher, talk to the editor. Since you mentioned \"Convervative prayerbook,
    the Reform, Orthodox....\" \r\n\r\n In other words, we have different halakhic
    points of view!!! Maybe find a Rabbi, or couple of them and talk to them. \r\nTo
    illustrate my point: The word Katonti (Gen. 32:11) is punctuated with geresh \u2014
    Breuer, Adi, BHS (red arrow, Adi); and revi'a \u2014 Koren bible, Mikraot Gedolot
    (blue arrow, Koren)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Katonti_4098.gif]\r\n\r\n
    Who's  right? Who's wrong?   The answer is we have different halakhic points of
    view.  The same thing with shva, kamats etc etc. One School says this is kamats
    katan, the other one says \u2014 no. \r\nUnless, your plan is to have: FrankRuhl
    Reform, FrankRuhl Orthodox, FrankRuhl Convervative,   etc. etc. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nTrue,
    we have rules. But sometimes we need to understand not just the rules. See the
    next example: \r\n\r\n1. First word: you see the hiriq (blue; kaf), and shva (red;
    lamed)?  The shva is na.\r\n2. Second word: you see the hiriq  and shva? The shva
    is nach. \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/2shva_5952.gif]\r\nWhy is that?
    \ Read/study Norzi  \u2014 remember my list?   :^)\r\n\r\nDo you want to know
    a little bit more about furtive patach? Read/study Abraham ben Meir ibn Ezra.
    \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-27 18:58:48'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nIsrael said: >>  I know that there are different sets of rules
    for shva-na, but most Orthodox publishers follow only one set of rules. I am only
    interested in that one.\r\n\r\nDavid said: >> Israel,\r\n\r\nI think that you
    are missing something. This is an editorial decision. Maybe contact the publisher,
    talk to the editor. Since you mentioned \u201CConvervative prayerbook, the Reform,
    Orthodox....\u201D ...Unless, your plan is to have: FrankRuhl Reform, FrankRuhl
    Orthodox, FrankRuhl Convervative, etc. etc. \r\n\r\nMy response:\r\n\r\nAs a Lubavitch
    chassidic Jew, called an Orthodox baal teshuva, and raised in a Reform Judaism
    home, and having worked professionally for various Conservative Judaism entities
    to produce a semi-Conservative kind of Orthodox-like siddur or prayerbook, I can
    confidentally state that there is no such thing as \"FrankRuhl Reform, FrankRuhl
    Orthodox, FrankRuhl Convervative, etc. etc. \" It does not exist.\r\n\r\nWhen
    it comes to the graphic symbol for shvah-nah and its usage, or komatz katan, or
    hataf-komatz katan, there are only different halachic views. \r\n\r\nIn the Conservative
    siddur, they do not exist, although the traditional nusach formulated by the Anshei
    Knesset Hagedola and latter great sages is maintained albeit with some minor changes.
    \r\n\r\nAmong the Reform, this exists even less and less and less etc. etc., and
    things like shvah-nah, komatz katan, or hataf-komatz katan certain do not exist
    at all. I doubt if most Reform rabbis even know these very words! Sorry, William,
    but I said most, like 98%.\r\n\r\nMy intention is make a FrankRuhl, David, Koren,
    Hadasa etc. that have automatic features for shvah-nah, komatz katan, or hataf-komatz
    katan, like SBL-Hebrew has for the furtive patach. That's my goal.\r\n\r\nI think
    it's dobable; you did not, but are reconsidering...\r\n\r\nYou know Hebrew grammar
    well, much more that I do (but I know OpenType more than you (I'm not talking
    in FontLab), so you must realize it is in deed possible, since we are dealing
    with defineable rules. That's what grammar is all about.\r\n\r\nI believe if it's
    done and used by all schools and appears in Hebrew nikkud books, then the next
    generation will understand it well, and pronounce Hebrew correctly.\r\n\r\n\r\n>>
    \ This is an editorial decision. \r\n\r\nI agree that there are different views
    in Halacha.\r\n\r\nBut I also disagree, because only one view is used by most
    publishers (except for Eliyahu Koren a\"h regarding some issues - and his view
    is rejected by the majority).\r\n\r\n\r\nBTW, thank you for detailing the examples
    with important explanations. I choose not to discuss it here, because my point
    from the very beginning is only to incorporate the majority view in an automatic
    manner in a carefully crafted OpenType font.\r\n\r\nThe discussion of these points
    should be in another thread.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-29 07:09:16'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nOn second thought, your examples perhaps provide a key, and
    do pertain a great deal to this thread.\r\n\r\n>>  1. First word: you see the
    hiriq (blue; kaf), and shva (red; lamed)? The shva is na.\r\n    2. Second word:
    you see the hiriq and shva? The shva is nach.\r\n\r\nYou're right, it isn't the
    chirik which is the determining factor, rather the preceding letter joined with
    a chirik.\r\n\r\nI am certain that there is never the same set of a particular
    letter with a particular nikkud before a letter with a shvah, and sometimes it's
    shvah-nah and sometimes shvah-nach. (If you can find such a situation, then that
    means you need two preceding letters with two kinds of nikkud to determine if
    the third letter with a shvah is in deed a shvah-nah, or a shvah-nach - I don't
    know if OpenType could programmed in that way easily, but in a different way,
    it could be address - but it may not be even necessary.)\r\n\r\nOnce we figure
    out a list of letters with nikkud which cause cetain letters with shah which follow
    to be either shavah-nah or shvah-nach, a table or replacement can be created.\r\n\r\nYou
    know examples very well, and I see patterns very well.\r\n\r\n(Similarly, regarding
    komatz katan and hataf-komatz katan.)\r\n\r\nEither you discover the grammatical
    rule, or you \"reinvent the wheel\" so to speak, and \"reverse engineer\" it.\r\n\r\nDo
    you agree?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-29 07:54:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Israel, I have materials put out by different publishers; I try to learn
    from them all--orthodox, conservative, reform. The Metsudah Siddur and the ArtScroll
    Pirkei Avos Treasury that I have treat the shva na differently. The Metsudah adds
    a segol above the letter which has a shva to indicate a shva na. The ArtScroll
    puts a horizontal line above the letter. \r\n\r\nNow that I notice this, thanks
    to this discussion, I appreciate it. But I do find the way they do it typographically
    questionable. It seems to me a somewhat larger two dots, or maybe a light third
    dot make more sense, though I haven't seen it tried so I don't know.\r\n\r\nI
    don't see a distinctive kamatz katan in either book. If I remember rightly the
    Conservative Siddur, Sim Shalom, has this, in the form of a larger kamatz. \r\n\r\nIsrael,
    it really astonishes me that you don't seem to know or care--I don't know which--that
    your comments about Reform rabbis are lashon hara. Your claim that 98% of Reform
    rabbis don't even know what a kamatz katan is, is also absurd and false. \r\n
    \  "
  created: '2008-08-29 16:28:30'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "William,\r\n\r\n>>  The Metsudah Siddur and the ArtScroll Pirkei Avos Treasury
    that I have treat the shva na differently. The Metsudah adds a segol above the
    letter which has a shva to indicate a shva na. The ArtScroll puts a horizontal
    line above the letter. \r\n\r\nThese two are Orthodox. I never saw a graphic symbol
    for a shvah-nah any where else, except Kehot (Lubavitch) Publication Society (a
    small floating asterisk), Shay Lemorah (Rabbi Winefeld of Jerusalem) (a little
    larger asterisk surround with a circle - very logical way to draw the reader's
    attention), and some small private Israeli Sephardic publishers).\r\n\r\nKomatz
    katan is distinguished by both Orthodox (Kehot and I think ArtScroll do not),
    Conservative, and secular publishers.\r\n\r\nI have seen Hataf komatz katan only
    in Shay Lemorah. I think only Rabbi Winefield knows its rule. :)\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    you don\u2019t seem to ... care ... [about] lashon hara.\r\n\r\nOf course, I care.
    Like Tefillin is a mitzvah, so too not speaking lashon hora is also a mitzvah.
    In fact, lashon hora was a major factor for me to adobt the Chassidic lifestyle
    after being raised as a Reform Jew.\r\n\r\nIt is not lason hora to say someone
    knows something or not. I am reporting on his behavior, as \"so-in-so complain
    about Agri, and he eats non-kosher - what a hypocrite!\" This constitutes lashon
    hora if it is not common knowledge of the person's disregard for kosher laws.
    For example, many non-Orthodox Jews adhere to kosher laws. Therefore, we must
    assume that this person does not violate them.\r\n\r\nMost very well educated
    people lack familiarity about shvah-nah (as you see that really only David knows
    what's flying here) etc. Hence, likely, most Reform rabbis do not know this either.
    I might be wrong. But I grew up Reform, interacted with many Reform rabbis, and
    can confidentally declare that the knowledge of these rules are very likely lacking
    by the over-whelming majority. \r\n\r\nSad to say, most Reform rabbis know much
    more about contemporary politics and social trends than Torah teachings and the
    meaning behind our traditions. \r\n\r\nToday, Reform Judaism is much more like
    a social club than a religion. Many years ago, Reform Judaism, like its name implies,
    was a reaction against Orthodoxy and ancient traditions. Very few Reform Jews
    even know or care about those issues. \r\n\r\nWe even have seen recently that
    the trend is to accept a very simple conversion process, because the rate of intermarriage
    is the norm now. Plus, more Jews abandon Reform Judaism than enter into it, and
    the so-called converts are making up a larger percentage of Reform.\r\n\r\nEven
    the previous president of Reform cried on television when he reported the statistic
    that within 50 years there will no longer be a Jewish componant to Reform."
  created: '2008-08-29 17:58:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Israel, it is not well known that Reform Rabbis don't know of the kamatz
    katan, it is false. Therefore what you are doing is lashon hara. And if you think
    it is well known because others in your circle are saying it, they are also committing
    lashon hara. \r\n\r\nFor a start, there are several examples of a kamatz katan
    in the Shabbat Kiddush, which Reform also recite regularly, and I always hear
    it correctly from the lips of Reform Rabbis. Reform Rabbis have extensive training
    in Hebrew, including a year in Israel. Also, just checking the curriculum at huc.edu,
    there are several semesters of required studies in dikduk. I am not saying that
    their Hebrew is as good as a well educated native speaker, like David, nor do
    they pretend it is, but it is certainly way above what you indicate. \r\n\r\nAlso
    the reform movement has been growing, not shrinking, which is I think inconsistent
    with what you say. Also I don't find your last statement credible, nor the 'statistic'
    in it. Can you cite a credible source for it?  \r\n"
  created: '2008-08-29 18:38:13'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "William,\r\n\r\n> Also the reform movement has been growing, not shrinking,
    which is I think inconsistent with what you say.\r\n\r\nAccording to my limited
    understanding (I haven't been Reform for close to 30 years), Reform  is in deed
    growing, but the born Jewish element is shrinking. Children of Reform parents
    are not becoming Reform, like their parents, by a very high percentage. Affiliation
    is any organized group is getting smaller, if we consider Jewish people as a whole.
    \r\n\r\nOnly Chabad House and Friends of Lubavitch is growing by big numbers.
    I'm not tooting my own horn, but Chabad representatives seem to have discovered
    the secret ingrediant to appeal to the mainstrean, and even to gentiles. Without
    compromise, with black hats and scaggly untrimmed beards.\r\n\r\n\r\n> Also I
    don\u2019t find your last statement credible, nor the \u2019statistic\u2019 in
    it. Can you cite a credible source for it?\r\n\r\n\r\nI saw it myself on PBS,
    during the big debate about the very unpopular 'Who is a Jew?' issue of the very
    late eighties and very erly nineties. I'm sure PBS has a written text of that
    interview, if not the actual recording. Even as a Chassidic Jew, I was very moved
    by his crying and shocking statement. He said: \"Our children don't want to be
    Reform; soon, we'll only have the converts.\"\r\n\r\n\r\n> Therefore what you
    are doing is lashon hara. ... Reform Rabbis have extensive training in Hebrew,
    including a year in Israel\r\n\r\n\r\nI hope you're right and I am wrong. I prefer
    to think that Jews know, as we are the \"people of the book\".\r\n\r\nI don't
    think this constitutes lashon hora. I will ask some experts."
  created: '2008-08-29 20:22:31'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'On lashon hara, you don''t need an expert. You should know that if you report
    a false rumor that it is lashon hara. After all, it is a direct prohibition in
    the Torah. And in my opinion, and that of Rabbi Telushkin (Orthodox) you have
    an obligation to check on the status of any rumor before you pass it on. Only
    if it has good grounds and would be a danger if people don''t know it should you
    pass it on. '
  created: '2008-08-29 21:16:40'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "William,\r\n\r\n> a false rumor that it is lashon hara.\r\n\r\nI beg to differ.
    A false rumor is not lashon hora. It's simply a mistake.\r\n\r\nIf the intent
    is malicious, it's not nice, even mean.\r\n\r\nIf it's embarassing, or causes
    people to think less of Jews, it may be Chillul Hashem, an embrassment to G-d's
    stature.\r\n\r\nI think if an outsider reading this thread is not caused to think
    poorly of Judaism or G-d. The person simply realizes that Reform Judaism and its
    rabbis are not representative of mainstream Judaism, the Torah, or G-d.\r\n\r\nHence,
    it is not a Chilul Hashem; it is rather a Kidush Hashem, a way to show G-d is
    special and holy.\r\n\r\nI know that you regard Reform Judaism in a high regard,
    but in both Orthodoxy and the Conservative Judaism, it is regarded in a very low
    light (mainly because Reform Judaism claims it replaces Orthodoxy - the issue
    of dramatic compromise or even the promotion of anti-Halachic practices is not
    a reason to reject Reform Judaism - in halacha this is called 'horaat shaah',
    temporary laxity due to the circumstances).\r\n\r\n\r\nI did ask about lashon
    hora and knowledge. The first reply that I received was that even if it would
    not be lashon hora,  intonation is a major factor. Here, however, everything is
    written only. So, the determining factors is limited to words in writting."
  created: '2008-08-29 21:49:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Israel, are we reading the same Torah? Exodus 23:1 says \"You shall not carry
    false reports.\"\r\n\r\nIt is false that Reform rabbis know so little Hebrew that
    they are not aware of the kamatz katan. If you don't believe me, just ask any
    Reform rabbi, and check the HUC.edu site on their education. \r\n\r\nEither you
    made it up, in which case it is slander, and also clearly against Torah, or you
    have reported a false rumor and also against the Torah.\r\n\r\nI just don't like
    seeing Jews bad-mouth other Jews, which is what you are doing here. Please stop
    it. "
  created: '2008-08-29 22:16:54'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "William,\r\n\r\nYou make a clear assumption to declare that one lacks knowledge
    of something, even if it's untru, is slander.\r\n\r\nTo support your assumption,
    you cite a verse.\r\n\r\nYou do this over and over and over, regardless of my
    repeated replies that this is not a given.\r\n\r\nYou might be right, and I made
    a mistake; or, you might be wrong, and repeated errors can not simply be a mistake.\r\n\r\nInstead
    of thinking you are correct, and no other possibility can exist, why don't we
    be a little humble, and seek the oipinions of those greater in wisdom than us.\r\n\r\nI
    am not an expert in the laws of lashon hora, nor are you. Or are you?\r\n\r\nI
    know some Reform rabbis, and will inquire simply about a one paragraph definition
    of a komatz katan. I will ask ten rabbis. If the majority (6 or more) answer correctly,
    it warrants my seeming besearching of the holy Reform rabbis shlit\"a. If 6 or
    more fail to reply, or reply incorrectly, then it would seem it is not untrue.\r\n\r\nDo
    you agree on my trial litmus test?"
  created: '2008-08-29 23:36:10'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "William,\r\n\r\n> Exodus 23:1 says \u201CYou shall not carry false reports.\u201D\r\n\r\nI
    reviewed the most fundemental commentary by Rabbi Shlome Yitchaki,. known as Rashi,
    and failed to find any reference to a definition of lashon hara as any statement
    about a person not knowing something difficult (even where the person knows it)
    as slander.\r\n\r\n\r\nThis discussion reflects a response that you made earlier
    elsewhere, and my father a\"h made many times, that one is strongly perturbed
    by an indication of ignorance among the Reform.\r\n\r\nKomatz katan is a difficult
    to describe difference to that of an ordinary komatz, the komatz gedol.\r\n\r\nWould
    you like to clearly and succinctly explain komatz katan in a paragraph or two?\r\n\r\nIf
    the graphic form of komatz katan, the small komatz, is that the middle vertical
    segment is elongated, why is it call 'katan', small?\r\n\r\nIf the graphic form
    of the komatz gadol, the big komatz, is that the middle vertical segment is shorter,
    why is it call 'gadol', big?"
  created: '2008-08-29 23:57:19'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "William,\r\n\r\n> Exodus 23:1 says \u201CYou shall not carry false reports.\u201D\r\n\r\nI
    reviewed the most fundemental commentary by Rabbi Shlome Yitchaki,. known as Rashi,
    and failed to find any reference to a definition of lashon hara as any statement
    about a person not knowing something difficult (even where the person knows it)
    as slander.\r\n\r\n\r\nThis discussion reflects a response that you made earlier
    elsewhere, and my father a\"h made many times, that one is strongly perturbed
    by an indication of ignorance among the Reform.\r\n\r\nKomatz katan is a difficult
    to describe difference to that of an ordinary komatz, the komatz gedol.\r\n\r\nWould
    you like to clearly and succinctly explain komatz katan in a paragraph or two?\r\n\r\nIf
    the graphic form of komatz katan, the small komatz, is that the middle vertical
    segment is elongated, why is it call 'katan', small?\r\n\r\nIf the graphic form
    of the komatz gadol, the big komatz, is that the middle vertical segment is shorter,
    why is it call 'gadol', big?"
  created: '2008-08-29 23:57:20'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Oy Israel,  Israel.... \r\n\r\nWe were  laughing this morning (i was in a
    meeting with  teachers, cantors, rabbis).... Why  laughing? Oh, this one is good:
    \r\n\r\n> used by all schools and appears in Hebrew nikkud books, then the next
    generation will understand it well, and pronounce Hebrew correctly.\r\n\r\nDo
    you think that  the Hebrew langauge is only shva & kamats?  Come on, Israel, give
    me a break please. \r\n\r\n\r\nBack to the secular world: Cut to the chase. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n1.
    > You\u2019re right, it isn\u2019t the chirik which is the determining factor,
    rather the preceding letter joined with a chirik.\r\n\r\nHow did you get that?
    where did I say that? The answer is morphological or etymological. And that sample
    is/was an answer to your statement: \"since we are dealing with defineable rules.
    That\u2019s what grammar is all about.\"\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n2. > Komatz katan is distinguished
    by.... secular publishers.\r\n\r\nName one publisher! Name one book! Do you have
    \ an example?\r\n\r\n\r\n3. > Komatz katan is distinguished by both Orthodox \r\n\r\nNot
    all the time. EVEN if this is the same  publisher. Do you have Ye\u05B4havveh
    Daat (Rabbi Ovadia Yosef)? \r\nAs  a type designer and typesetter you need to
    know what is going on out there.\r\n\r\n\r\n4. >  most Reform rabbis do not know
    this either.\r\n\r\nWhy do you say that? Do you know? \r\n\r\n\r\n5. > as you
    see that really only David knows what\u2019s flying here\r\n\r\nThank you; studied
    that for a long  time.  And still studying. BTW, studying is not just  reading
    books.  But  my point is that I'll never say \"Reform rabbis do not know\", or
    \"Orthodox rabbis do not know\".  A little bit of respect to their faith and way
    of life.  Now with you, Israel,  this is a different story  :^)   you're a special
    case   :^)  (e.g. the shva na case). \r\n\r\n\r\n6. > I know some Reform rabbis,
    and will inquire simply about a one paragraph definition of a komatz katan. I
    will ask ten rabbis. If the majority (6 or more) answer correctly, it warrants
    my seeming besearching of the holy Reform rabbis shlit\u201Da. If 6 or more fail
    to reply, or reply incorrectly, then it would seem it is not untrue.\r\n\r\nDo
    you know what is kamats  katan? Do you have samples? \r\n"
  created: '2008-08-29 23:59:00'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "\u05E9\u05D1\u05EA \u05E9\u05DC\u05D5\u05DD\r\n\r\nShabbat Shalom!"
  created: '2008-08-30 00:19:13'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\n> Do you think that the Hebrew langauge is only shva & kamats?\r\n\r\nI
    lived in Israel, and spoke Hebrew. I have made over 100 Hebrew fonts, with Hebrew
    letters, nikkud, and taamei mikra. I have studied many hundreds of Hebrew language
    books in the original. \r\n\r\nDo you really think this? If yes, I really held
    you in much higher regard. Did I make a crude mistake?\r\n\r\n\r\n> The answer
    is morphological or etymological.\r\n\r\nYou may be a knowledgeable Hebrew grammar
    teacher, and a fine Hebrew type designer, but I believe here you are incorrect.\r\n\r\nMorphology
    (linguistics), the study of the structure and content of word forms. -Wikipedia\r\n\r\nEtymology
    is the study of the history of words \u2014 when they entered a language, from
    what source, and how their form and meaning have changed over time. -Wikipedia\r\n\r\nI
    think that the difference between declaring a shvah as either a shvah-nah or as
    a shvah-nach is purely grammatical. It neither relates to the structure and content
    of a word's form, or to its history.\r\n\r\nFor an intelligent person as yourself
    this is merely a way to save face, and pretend you know, when you really do not.\r\n\r\nLook
    at William, when he does not know something, he searches and finds out.\r\n\r\nPirkei
    Avot declares that one who is shy does not learn, because he's afraid to ask.
    In order to learn, you must admit that you do not know, and seek out knowledge.\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    Name one [secular] publisher\r\n\r\nWhen I began making Hebrew fonts back in 1988/89,
    I read documentation from Apple Computer, Inc. about Hebrew encoding standards,
    and inspected Hebrew system fonts from Apple with a bit map font editor tool.\r\n\r\nI
    found a komatz katan, and wondered what it was. I never saw one before, nor in
    ulpan years before no discussion centered around it.\r\n\r\nAs a Lubavitcher chassidic,
    I prayed daily, and knew that on Saturday night we recited a prayer called \"Vetayn
    Lecha\" that featured the final version of chof with a komatz and a dagesh, and
    a final version of nuhn with a komatz. But there was no komatz katan in the entire
    prayerbook.\r\n\r\nI was an authorized Apple developer and called Apple in Cupertino,
    California. In those days, you could talk to someone. The person that I spoke
    to was the Hebrew language manager, a former Israeli (chiloni - secular). \r\n\r\nI
    questioned his decision to encode kometz katan, but not character ligatures used
    in a prayerbook.\r\n\r\nHe answered that he never read in a prayerbook, and was
    unaware of these character ligatures... that no one prayed anyway... and that
    komatz katan was used in schools teaching children to read.\r\n\r\nI replied that
    in a few years, many more religious people, children, teenagers, and adults, will
    use computers, and secular will eventually dwindle in number and know Hebrew poorly
    (as we see already beginning today).\r\n\r\n\r\n> [about Reform rabbis not knowing
    things like katan] why say that? Do you know? \r\n\r\nI don't know much for sure.
    I hope that there are a small percentage that know. Most Reform rabbis or students
    who were making their career to be Reform rabbis, know very little about Torah,
    Judaism and Hebrew, sad to say. They knew a lot about social issues, politics,
    movies, and how best to inspire people. They would make great social workers or
    therapists.\r\n\r\n\r\n> Do you know what is kamats katan?\r\n\r\nLike shvah-nah
    and shvah-nach, hataf-komatz katan and komatz katan, and an ordinary komatz (gadol),
    I understand the issue pertains to pronunciation.\r\n\r\nNah means moving; nach
    mean resting: when a shvah-nah appears we only slightly pronounce the sound of
    the consonant above the shvah; when a shvah-nach appears we do pronounce (a little
    more than slightly) the sound of the consonant above the shvah.\r\n\r\nKatan means
    small; gadol means big: a consonant with a ordinary komatz (gadol) below it is
    pronounced with a big, full sound; a consonant with a komatz katan below it is
    pronounced with a small, shorter sound; a consonant with a ordinary hataf-komatz
    katan below, quicker sound.\r\n\r\nI may be wrong. I am a type designer, not a
    grammaratarian, nor a Reform rabbi. :)\r\n\r\n\r\n> Do you have samples?\r\n\r\nI
    don't have my books here. I will ask one of my sons for some.\r\n\r\nRabbi Winefield
    of Shay Lemorah publishers has it all. He also wrote the Shay Lemorah commentary.
    It appears he's a gigantic scholar that only appears only after many generations.\r\n\r\n\r\n
    \r\n"
  created: '2008-08-31 03:15:24'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "We've reached the point of a pointless conversation. \r\nGood day. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-31 03:38:38'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "shtikah zu hodaah - the Talmud\r\n\r\nIt means that when one does not respond,
    this then is an admittance or agreement with the previous statement.\r\n\r\nIn
    American law, this is also a statement.\r\n\r\nDavid, it's a shame that you feel
    that this is a \"pointless\" conversation. \r\n\r\nIt seems that you think too
    highly of yourself to engage in conversation. Like everything in life, I fweel
    this is an opportunity to learn.\r\n\r\nEizehu chacham, halomayd mekol adam.\r\n\r\nGood
    night."
  created: '2008-08-31 03:53:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I am not an expert in the laws of lashon hora, nor are you. Or are you?\r\n\r\nIsrael,
    not an expert, but I am a student of those who have been expert, as I read their
    books. And one of the first things I learned is that accusing someone of professional
    incompetence is serious lashon hara. \r\n\r\nBut I see you are impervious to correction,
    so I'll stop. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-31 05:13:40'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "William,\r\n\r\n> accusing someone of professional incompetence is serious
    lashon hara. \r\n\r\nI think that you believe that not knowing a thing as rare
    as a komatz katan is professional incompetence for a Reform rabbi. I don't believe
    that not knowing a thing as rare as a komatz katan is certainly not professional
    incompetence for any rabbi. \r\n\r\n\r\n> But I see you are impervious to correction...\r\n\r\nI
    am not impervious to correction at all.\r\n\r\nRather, you feel that there is
    nothing except your view. And hence you draw only one conclusion, refusing to
    consider that you may be incorrect, and that another possibility exists.\r\n\r\nAlthough
    I am frum, and considered narrow-minded by many secularists or non-frum people,
    when a person refuses to consider more than one possibility and that only he or
    she is correct, then this is clearly being narrow minded.\r\n\r\nThis recent display
    of stubborn shallow thinking convinces me that secular or non-frum attitudes is
    in deed lacking a lot. No wonder so many reject it.\r\n\r\n\r\nLet's remember
    that I simply am seeking to better understand the usage of shvah-nah, komatz katan,
    hataf komatz katan, and even the meteg accent mark, in order to incorporate these
    grammar rules into a crefully crafted OpenType Hebrew font, like SBL-Hebrew.\r\n\r\nInstead
    of assistance or encouragement, a debate has ensued about the merits of Reform
    Judaism, its rabbis, and I have been accused of lashon hora for speaking sharply
    about Reform Judaism and against Reform rabbis.\r\n\r\nThe very fact that the
    inquiry about these Hebrew grammar topics have produced very little shows how
    very little we know about them, besides their names.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-31 07:18:31'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I don\u2019t believe that not knowing a thing as rare as a komatz katan
    is certainly not professional incompetence for any rabbi. \r\n\r\nIsrael, you
    are not getting it. Conservative and Reform congregations these days pray using
    the Israeli pronunciation of Hebrew (with an American accent). In it, a patach
    and kamatz are pronounced the same, but a kamatz katan is pronounced differently.
    Thus in order to pronounce the prayers properly, you have to be aware that 'kol'
    (all) is pronounced that way rather than 'kal'. So Reform kids today in elementary
    school are taught about the existence of the kamatz katan in their early Hebrew
    classes. And that's why some prayer books for Reform and Conservative print the
    kamatz katan differently. That's why your statement that 98% of Reform Rabbis
    don't know of the existence of the kamatz katan is so absurd. \r\n\r\nNow do you
    understand?\r\n\r\n  \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-31 14:16:20'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "William,\r\n\r\n> a kamatz katan is pronounced differently...Reform kids
    today in elementary school are taught about the existence of the kamatz katan
    in their early Hebrew classes...\r\n\r\nFascinating explanation.\r\n\r\nI don't
    think that you are correct that this distiction is so widespread throughout the
    movement. I would like to do some researchg. Your statement might be as accurate,
    as it is plausable. (As I abhor lashon hora, I believe in limud zchus, like the
    American legal rule of \"innocense until proven guilty\".\r\n\r\nIf your explanation
    is in deed accurate, then every Reform rabbi should know the basics of komatz
    katan (pronunciation) in order to pray."
  created: '2008-08-31 14:37:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Israel, I accept your statement that you abhor lashon hara and believe in
    the principle of judging \"l'chaf z'chut\". But judging by this thread, you don't
    recognize when you are violating both principles, regularly. \r\n\r\nAs the Talmud
    makes clear, judging \"l'chaf z'chut\" means that you try to put a good construction
    on what the other person does, or in other words try to view their action with
    the best interpretation, in the most favorable light. \r\n\r\nBut here you say
    you have had no contact with Reform for thirty years, but are willing both to
    judge in the worst light and than to say publicly that 98% of Reform Rabbis have
    never heard of a kamatz katan. If that is judging 'l'chaf z'chut,' and avoiding
    lashon hara, then I'm the Pope of Rome. \r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2008-08-31 15:29:42'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Pope of Rome (he might know komatz katam even better),\r\n\r\nActually, I
    am using \"l'chaf z'chut\" in a very broad sense, more than its \"geder\", limitations
    in Jewish law. The law of \"l'chaf z'chut\" applies only in a limited context.\r\n\r\nReally,
    if you reread my statement, you will see that I was obly referring to you and
    your claim; I was not referring to the subjects of your claim. Dai lemayveen -
    an allusion suffices for the wise.\r\n\r\nYou repeatedly taunt \"lason hora, lashon
    hora\", like school kids sing: \"nah, nah akish, kish\". You even claim expertise
    in the subject, having studied well the pertinent books.\r\n\r\n1. If so, please
    cite at least a single source in an expert's book on lashon hora that supports
    your claim. \r\n\r\n2. Do you know for sure what Reform rabbis know and don't
    know across the country to substantiate your claim?\r\n\r\n3. Do you know for
    sure that children in Reform school recite a Hebrew letter with a komatz katan
    differently than an ordinary komatz?\r\n\r\nMy guess is that matters in the Reform
    movement have only decreased in matters of Judaism, its laws, language, and custom,
    in the past thirty years. So, it stands to reason if I never was taught in a Reform
    Hebrew school for about ten years even the existance of a komatz katan, it is
    unlikely that Reform reformed (sic).\r\n\r\nI think I have my old Reform books
    on Hebrew. No komatz katan.\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-31 15:54:12'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Pope of Rome (he might know komatz katam even better),\r\n\r\nActually, I
    am using \"l'chaf z'chut\" in a very broad sense, more than its \"geder\", limitations
    in Jewish law. The law of \"l'chaf z'chut\" applies only in a limited context.\r\n\r\nReally,
    if you reread my statement, you will see that I was obly referring to you and
    your claim; I was not referring to the subjects of your claim. Dai lemayveen -
    an allusion suffices for the wise.\r\n\r\nYou repeatedly taunt \"lason hora, lashon
    hora\", like school kids sing: \"nah, nah akish, kish\". You even claim expertise
    in the subject, having studied well the pertinent books.\r\n\r\n1. If so, please
    cite at least a single source in an expert's book on lashon hora that supports
    your claim. \r\n\r\n2. Do you know for sure what Reform rabbis know and don't
    know across the country to substantiate your claim?\r\n\r\n3. Do you know for
    sure that children in Reform school recite a Hebrew letter with a komatz katan
    differently than an ordinary komatz?\r\n\r\nMy guess is that matters in the Reform
    movement have only decreased in matters of Judaism, its laws, language, and custom,
    in the past thirty years. So, it stands to reason if I never was taught in a Reform
    Hebrew school for about ten years even the existance of a komatz katan, it is
    unlikely that Reform reformed (sic).\r\n\r\nI think I have my old Reform books
    on Hebrew. No komatz katan.\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-31 15:54:14'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Pope of Rome (he might know komatz katam even better),\r\n\r\nActually, I
    am using \"l'chaf z'chut\" in a very broad sense, more than its \"geder\", limitations
    in Jewish law. The law of \"l'chaf z'chut\" applies only in a limited context.\r\n\r\nReally,
    if you reread my statement, you will see that I was obly referring to you and
    your claim; I was not referring to the subjects of your claim. Dai lemayveen -
    an allusion suffices for the wise.\r\n\r\nYou repeatedly taunt \"lason hora, lashon
    hora\", like school kids sing: \"nah, nah akish, kish\". You even claim expertise
    in the subject, having studied well the pertinent books.\r\n\r\n1. If so, please
    cite at least a single source in an expert's book on lashon hora that supports
    your claim. \r\n\r\n2. Do you know for sure what Reform rabbis know and don't
    know across the country to substantiate your claim?\r\n\r\n3. Do you know for
    sure that children in Reform school recite a Hebrew letter with a komatz katan
    differently than an ordinary komatz?\r\n\r\nMy guess is that matters in the Reform
    movement have only decreased in matters of Judaism, its laws, language, and custom,
    in the past thirty years. So, it stands to reason if I never was taught in a Reform
    Hebrew school for about ten years even the existance of a komatz katan, it is
    unlikely that Reform reformed (sic).\r\n\r\nI think I have my old Reform books
    on Hebrew. No komatz katan.\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-31 15:54:16'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Pope of Rome (he might know komatz katam even better),\r\n\r\nActually, I
    am using \"l'chaf z'chut\" in a very broad sense, more than its \"geder\", limitations
    in Jewish law. The law of \"l'chaf z'chut\" applies only in a limited context.
    \r\n\r\nYou on the other hand are using \"l'chaf z'chut\" as a general rule, applicable
    everywhere, to everyone, and at all times. Halacha limits it though because it's
    in a person's best interests to not be \"l'chaf z'chut\" everywhere, to everyone,
    and at all times.\r\n\r\nReally, if you reread my statement, you will see that
    I was only referring to you and your claim; I was not referring to the subjects
    of your claim. Dai lemayveen - an allusion suffices for the wise.\r\n\r\n============\r\n\r\nYou
    repeatedly taunt \"lason hora, lashon hora\", like school kids sing: \"nah, nah
    akish, kish\". You even claim expertise in the subject, having studied well the
    pertinent books.\r\n\r\n1. If so, please cite at least a single source in an expert's
    book on lashon hora that supports your claim. \r\n\r\n2. Do you know for sure
    what Reform rabbis know and don't know across the country to substantiate your
    claim?\r\n\r\n3. Do you know for sure that children in Reform school recite a
    Hebrew letter with a komatz katan differently than an ordinary komatz?\r\n\r\nMy
    guess is that matters in the Reform movement have only decreased in matters of
    Judaism, its laws, language, and custom, in the past thirty years. So, it stands
    to reason if I never was taught in a Reform Hebrew school for about ten years
    even the existance of a komatz katan, it is unlikely that Reform reformed (sic)
    and teaches it now.\r\n\r\nI think I have my old Reform books on Hebrew. Let me
    check. No komatz katan.\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-31 16:00:56'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I just sent some email inquiries to the a) Reform high school in Cincinnati,
    b) the Hebrew Union College language department, c) the Reform Judaism head office
    in charge of the Union and its rabbis, and d) their Ask A Rabbi service with Rabbi
    Sharon L. Sobel.\r\n\r\nI asked about the little known and little used komatz
    katan, an alternative form of the ordinary nikkud known as komatz.\r\n\r\nIs this
    taught?\r\n\r\nIs it known and used in Reform temples by Reform rabbis?\r\n\r\nOr
    is it a relic of Jewish history, language, and culture, just a thing of the past?\r\n\r\nLet's
    see what are the replies."
  created: '2008-08-31 16:35:22'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I know what the answers will be as I have taught in Reform and Conservative
    religious schools, and have heard a lot of reform rabbis across the country, and
    have looked at the HUC curriculum. \r\n\r\nBut the answers don't matter to my
    main point: you have shown you are willing to disparage people when admittedly
    you don't know the truth about them. That is lashon hara however you slice it.
    I repeat my accusation, because it's true, and according to Torah I have the obligation
    to rebuke, but only three times. So I'm done.  "
  created: '2008-08-31 17:02:23'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "William,\r\n\r\n> disparage\r\n\r\nTo know or not know komatz katan is to
    disparage? Come on!?!\r\n\r\nThis sounds like grade school, and the teacher catches
    a kid with a comic book, shouting: \"Ah, hah, do you know that this act could
    lead to World War III?!?\"\r\n\r\n\r\n> I repeat my accusation, because it\u2019s
    true, and according to Torah I have the obligation to rebuke, but only three times.\r\n\r\nAccusation,
    true???\r\n\r\nEverything in Jewish law, known as halacha, has a context and a
    \"geder\" - a framework, of where the rule applies, and where it doesn't.\r\n\r\nWhen
    you study Jewish ideas and rules, you learn these matters, possibly even in depth,
    but your vast knowledge lacks understanding a rule's \"geder\".\r\n\r\nI think
    that this is the case of your understanding of \"limud z'chus\" and \"lashon hora\".\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    but only three times. So I\u2019m done.\r\n\r\nThis is childish, and immature.\r\n\r\nFirst,
    this rule of three times has a \"geder\" too. It refers to three different scenarios,
    not three each the same, as here. You must take me aside in private, say by private
    email, and do this three times, in different contexts or scenarios.\r\n\r\nSecond,
    the laws of rebuke also have a \"geder\". No one can simply rebuke anyone. Basically,
    you may not rebuke those \"younger\" in knowledge, or \"older\" in knowledge.
    You may only rebuke a person of equal standing, who you can influence for good.
    Here, age is not measured by calender years, but by knowledge of Torah and practice
    of halacha (although age is a strong factor for honor even if the person lacks
    knowledge of Torah).\r\n\r\nWhy is this?\r\n\r\nIf the other person is not on
    equal standing with you, then your rebuke will not influence them for good. And
    if this happens, the \"aveira\", the resulting transgressions, are your fault
    too, not only that person's fault.\r\n\r\nSo, we see that giving a rebuke is complicated.\r\n\r\nRegarding
    those that are \"younger\" in knowledge, or \"older\" in knowledge, the correct
    way to rebuke is by educating the person.\r\n\r\nIf the person is older and wiser,
    like a rabbi or teacher, one says: \"But didn't we learn such and such in (and
    then cite the source?)?\r\n\r\nIf the person is younger and less knowledgeable,
    like a child or ignorant (in Torah knowledge) person, we explain kindly and patiently.\r\n\r\nIf
    the person is of equal standing, and the rebuke fails to have an impact, we are
    not allowed to feel: \"So I\u2019m done.\" Rather, then, one is obliged to confront
    the two person's respected authority figure, and report that the other person
    committed such and such offence, was rebuked in such and such manner, but failed
    to change.\r\n\r\nThen, one's done.\r\n\r\nThis is clearly explained in the Codes
    of Jewish Law, and even translated in English by a few different parties.\r\n\r\nIt
    is unfortunate that these ideas in halacha are learned, but their \"geder\" is
    ignored."
  created: '2008-08-31 18:02:57'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> >  a kamatz katan is pronounced differently\r\n\r\nIn Wikipedia http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Niqqud
    in deed the pronunciation difference of modern Hebrew between a regular kamatz
    (an \"ah\"-like sound), and a kamatz katan.\r\n\r\nWhen I was a boy, and learning
    in a Reform Judaisn Sunday school, the prononciation taught to us was not for
    modern Hebrew, or Sephardic. Rather, Ashkenazic pronunciation was taught, and
    this distinction was not taught at all, as it was not not necessary.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    in various ulpanin (schools of Hebrew language in Israel), where I was taught
    pronunciation for modern Hebrew, no distinction was taught. Similarly, on a kibbutz-ulpan,
    at college age, I never was taught about the kamatz katan.\r\n\r\nOnly in my late
    twenties, when I became a professional type design on the Apple Macintosh computer,
    did I discover the existance of a kamatz katan. I learned that it was sounded
    like a kamatz, but was shorter in the length of its sound, and hence called the
    \"small kamatz\"."
  created: '2008-09-01 00:26:41'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I received the following very explicit statement from \"Ask a Rabbi\" at
    the Reform Judaism web site.\r\n\r\n...please be advised that the \"kamatz katan\"
    is a very important part of Hebrew grammar... It IS taught as part of the Reform
    Movement's Hebrew curriculum...\r\n\r\nRabbi Sharon L. Sobel\r\nExecutive Director\r\nCanadian
    Council for Reform Judaism and ARZA Canada\r\n\r\nAccording to this statement,
    Reform Judaism schools clearly teach use of the kamatz gadol \"as part of the
    Reform Movement's Hebrew curriculum\".\r\n\r\nHence, I was incorrect in stating
    that Reform rabbis do not know kamatz katan today. \r\n\r\nIn my defence, I clearly
    recall that when I was a child in a Reform Judaism Sunday school never learning
    about it. Also, in interacting with both many Reform rabbis in the USA over the
    years, and with many Reform rabbinical students in Jerusalem, I didn't find them
    knowledgeable understandingly about issues of Jewish law (halacha) or the Hebrew
    language.\r\n\r\nIf Rabbi Sharon Sobel is correct, perhaps Reform has reformed
    during the past three decades, or the movement and certain affiliate temples and
    schools embrace this knowledge, but the bulk is much less knowledgeable.\r\n\r\nAccording
    to William's explanation that a kamatz and patach represent an \"ah\" sound, like
    the Sephardic-style puctuation used in Israel, and the kamatz katan represents
    the \"oh\" sound, how did Askenazic Jews traditionally distinquish between there
    \"oh\" sounding kamatz and kamatz katan?"
  created: '2008-09-02 17:43:19'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I received the following very explicit statement from \"Ask a Rabbi\" at
    the Reform Judaism web site.\r\n\r\n...please be advised that the \"kamatz katan\"
    is a very important part of Hebrew grammar... It IS taught as part of the Reform
    Movement's Hebrew curriculum...\r\n\r\nRabbi Sharon L. Sobel\r\nExecutive Director\r\nCanadian
    Council for Reform Judaism and ARZA Canada\r\n\r\nAccording to this statement,
    Reform Judaism schools clearly teach use of the kamatz gadol \"as part of the
    Reform Movement's Hebrew curriculum\".\r\n\r\nHence, I was incorrect in stating
    that Reform rabbis do not know kamatz katan today. \r\n\r\nIn my defence, I clearly
    recall that when I was a child in a Reform Judaism Sunday school never learning
    about it. Also, in interacting with both many Reform rabbis in the USA over the
    years, and with many Reform rabbinical students in Jerusalem, I didn't find them
    knowledgeable understandingly about issues of Jewish law (halacha) or the Hebrew
    language.\r\n\r\nIf Rabbi Sharon Sobel is correct, perhaps Reform has reformed
    during the past three decades, or the movement and certain affiliate temples and
    schools embrace this knowledge, but the bulk is much less knowledgeable.\r\n\r\nAccording
    to William's explanation that a kamatz and patach represent an \"ah\" sound, like
    the Sephardic-style puctuation used in Israel, and the kamatz katan represents
    the \"oh\" sound, how did Askenazic Jews traditionally distinquish between there
    \"oh\" sounding kamatz and kamatz katan?"
  created: '2008-09-02 17:43:19'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I received the following very explicit statement from \"Ask a Rabbi\" at
    the Reform Judaism web site.\r\n\r\n...please be advised that the \"kamatz katan\"
    is a very important part of Hebrew grammar... It IS taught as part of the Reform
    Movement's Hebrew curriculum...\r\n\r\nRabbi Sharon L. Sobel\r\nExecutive Director\r\nCanadian
    Council for Reform Judaism and ARZA Canada\r\n\r\nAccording to this statement,
    Reform Judaism schools clearly teach use of the kamatz gadol \"as part of the
    Reform Movement's Hebrew curriculum\".\r\n\r\nHence, I was incorrect in stating
    that Reform rabbis do not know kamatz katan today. \r\n\r\nIn my defence, I clearly
    recall that when I was a child in a Reform Judaism Sunday school, I never learning
    about the kamatz katan. Also, in interacting with both many Reform rabbis in the
    USA over the years, and with many Reform rabbinical students in Jerusalem, I didn't
    find them knowledgeable understandingly about issues of even basic Jewish law
    (halacha) or the Hebrew language.\r\n\r\nIf Rabbi Sharon Sobel is correct, perhaps
    Reform has reformed during the past three decades, or the movement and certain
    affiliate temples and schools embrace this knowledge, but the bulk is much less
    knowledgeable.\r\n\r\nAccording to William's explanation that a kamatz and patach
    represent an \"ah\" sound, like the Sephardic-style puctuation used in Israel,
    and the kamatz katan represents the \"oh\" sound, how did Askenazic Jews traditionally
    distinquish between there \"oh\" sounding kamatz and kamatz katan?\r\n\r\nI know
    that William felt strongly that the honor of Reform rabbis or even the entire
    movement was lowered from my remark. This certainly was not my intention. So,
    I apologize if anyone thinks less of Reform rabbis because I said they sdon't
    know the meaning of kamatz katan.\r\n\r\nHonestly, I admit that I am unsure, too.
    William said that it's an \"oh\" sound. So, too, say Wikipedia on the Internet.
    Is this for Ashkanazim, too? So, does that mean its just another vowel, and not
    a grammatical issue? \r\n\r\nIf it's another vowel, and not the result of a grammatical
    rule, then it is not possible to program itsappearance into OpenType, unless it
    follows some definable pattern. Strike kamatz katan."
  created: '2008-09-02 18:03:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I am also interested in whether there are any rules concerning the komatz
    katan, though this is just curiosity in my case. One possibility is that it evolved
    in Sfardic pronunciation to disambiguate words that would otherwise be confused.
    But maybe it has a grammatical basis; I have no idea.   '
  created: '2008-09-03 22:37:22'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> disambiguate\r\n\r\n??? Boy, I'll have to look this one up. "
  created: '2008-09-04 00:10:13'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "http://www.answers.com/topic/disambiguate\r\n\r\ndisambiguate\r\n\r\nTo establish
    a single grammatical or semantic interpretation for.\r\n\r\ndisambiguation dis'am\xB7big'u\xB7a'tion
    n. \r\n "
  created: '2008-09-04 00:12:58'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\n\r\nKamats is katan in an unstressed & closed syllable.  Simple,
    no? :)\r\n\r\nWhat else do you want to know? :)"
  created: '2008-09-04 16:35:06'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> Kamats is katan in an unstressed & closed syllable. \r\n\r\nCan you give
    two examples?\r\n\r\nHow is a syllable unstressed, how is it close?\r\n\r\nPlease
    explain.\r\n\r\nIt seems that according to this, it is a logical condition, and
    can be defined and programmed, and simply another vowel sound. No?"
  created: '2008-09-04 16:47:59'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> How is a syllable unstressed, how is it close?\r\n\r\nYou don't know that
    yet? \r\n\r\n\"25.Aug.2008 5.25pm\r\nIn order to talk or to know what is shav
    na (and nach) we need to know about syllabic stress \u2014 mille\u2019el & millera\u2019;
    open & closed syllables; dagesh kal & hazak. And more, of course.\"\r\n\"And more....\"
    \u2014 e.g.  verb pattern groups.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.abebooks.com/servlet/SearchResults?bsi=0&tn=Biblical+hebrew+grammar&x=0&y=0&prevpage=4\">Buy
    couple books</a>    \u2014  99.999% have the same title: Biblical Hebrew An Introduction....;
    \ That said, you'll touch the basic, but this  is better than nothing, or google/googling.
    \ \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-04 19:11:26'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Lamdeinu rabbeinu. \r\n\r\n(This is a yeshiva catch phrase, meaning: \"teach
    us, our teacher\", asking one who knows how to turn on a switch to bring light
    into the room, to share that knowledge with others.)\r\n\r\nI could do as you
    suggest and \"grapple in the dark\", but if you know this already, and clearly,
    why then can't you just share that knowledge?\r\n\r\nFor example, I am a professional
    type designer, plus a Lubavitcher chassid with smicha to boot. So, I can share
    knowledge about type design, and Judaism.\r\n\r\nYour field is Hebrew grammar.
    Share your knowledge!"
  created: '2008-09-04 21:57:01'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Again. Do you know the story (Talmud, Shabbat 31a) about Hillel, Shammai,
    and the gentile? You don't want to learn or study \u2014 just to know; the easy
    way.  \r\nSo,  give me a break with your Quotes of the Day: \"Lamdeinu rabbeinu\"
    , \"shtikah zu hodaah\",\" Eizehu chacham, halomayd mekol adam\"\r\n\r\n> why
    then can\u2019t you just share that knowledge?   \r\n \r\nWith you? I don't have
    time for  nonsense + Pearls of Wisdom:\r\n\r\n> For an intelligent person as yourself
    this is merely a way to save face, and pretend you know, when you really do not.\r\n>
    You may be a knowledgeable Hebrew grammar teacher [who said I was/am???]  and
    a fine Hebrew type designer, but I believe here you are incorrect.\r\n>  it isn\u2019t
    the chirik which is the determining factor, rather the preceding letter joined
    with a chirik.\r\n> In the two examples that you cite, there is no shvah-nah.\r\n>
    These six words do not feature the need for a furtive patach.\r\n> I think that
    the difference between declaring a shvah as either a shvah-nah or as a shvah-nach
    is purely grammatical. It neither relates to the structure and content of a word\u2019s
    form, or to its history.\r\n\r\nClear and Sharp? \r\n"
  created: '2008-09-05 17:47:11'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "It apears that your reluctance to share your expertiose in Biblical Hebrew
    grammar stems from either of two factors:\r\n\r\n1. You think that it's just a
    waste of time to teach another this knowledge, because I am not a worthy recepient,
    or \r\n\r\n2. that your opinion is that this knowledge can not be used to create
    a contextual replacement in OpenType, like success has been made with furtive
    patach. \r\n\r\nThe first reason is subjective and personal. If I posted as a
    picture a bearded long-haired woman, with rings along the side of my face, and
    not a Chassidic Jew with a kipah, maybe you would be condescending and agree...\r\n\r\nThe
    second reason assumes you have a valid reason for your conclusion, but you have
    not demonstrated it.\r\n\r\n===\r\n\r\nWhen I worked professionally with the OpenType
    master John Hudson of SBL-Hebrew fame, I received greater respect and cooperation.
    He's a very proud Catholic and Biblical Hebrew expert.\r\n\r\nI believe with a
    clear understanding of the applicartion of shva-na, kamatz katan, and hataf kamatz
    katan, similar achievements as were for the furtive patach can be accomplished.\r\n\r\nI
    incorrectly believed that this understanding could be found here.\r\n\r\nInstead,
    I mainly found opposition and narrow-mindedness. Good type design requires an
    open-mind, creativity, and an attitude of \"I can\". not the opposite. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-07 01:41:29'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> When I worked professionally with the OpenType master John Hudson of SBL-Hebrew
    fame....\r\n\r\nWell, if  John  is your role model... why aren't you  respectful,
    resourcefulness, knowledgeable, wise....  much like John, huh? \r\n\r\nBut I guess
    that reading a book or two is too much.\r\n\r\nWhen you're going to understand
    that rules-shmules are nothing; you need to know:\r\n1. the verb system\r\n2.
    verb pattern groups: pa'al, nif'al, pi'el, pu'al, hitpa'el, hif'il, huf'al; verb
    tenses\r\n3. root composition:  week verbs & strong verbs / irregular & regular
    \ verbs\r\n4. particles\r\n5. the noun system\r\n6. pronouns\r\n7. biblical/cantillaion
    stuff\r\n\r\n There are  students that  learn Introduction to Biblical Hebrew
    for two years (four semester course)!!! what do you think that I'm going to sit
    here and post 24/7? Get it? \r\n\r\nAbout the rest of your post....There is nothing
    new Beneath the sun.\r\n\r\n\r\nBTW,  If I pretend to know, when I really do not
    (\"this is merely a way to save face, and pretend you know, when you really do
    not\")   \u2014 what do you want from me, huh? \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-10 20:33:13'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\n> If I pretend to know, when I really do not (\u201Cthis is
    merely a way to save face, and pretend you know, when you really do not\u201D)\r\n\r\nThis
    was in deed a rude statement. You clearly do know a lot about Hebrew grammar.
    So, this was uncalled for by me - I'm sorry.\r\n\r\nNot to justify, but to clarify,
    I was upset by your initial statement: \"So, give me a break with your Quotes
    of the Day: \u201CLamdeinu rabbeinu\u201D ...\"\r\n\r\nThis was actually intended
    as a compliment.\r\n After you made little of it, I made little of your words.\r\n\r\n>
    what do you want from me, huh?\r\n\r\nAssist me to define an create a CSUB/CPOS
    rule in OpenType to address shva-na/shva-nach, kamatz-katan/hataf-kamatz-katan,
    somewhat like what John Hudson (and some other guy) did for the furtive patach.\r\n\r\nOriginally,
    you stated that this was not possible. Perhaps, you are right.\r\n\r\nPaul Nelson,
    formerly of the Microsoft Typography Group refered me to Diane Collier, who expressed
    her view that she blieves that this is possible, based upon the information presented
    to her by me. So, perhaps, you are incorrect.\r\n\r\nI sincerely believe that
    you hope that I find a way to do this.\r\n\r\nThe result will mean that a Hebrew
    text in Unicode without Unicodes for shva-na, kamatz-katan, and hataf-kamatz-katan
    will then automatically appear and print with glyphs for shva-na, kamatz-katan,
    and hataf-kamatz-katan."
  created: '2008-09-10 21:02:32'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\n> But I guess that reading a book or two is too much\r\n\r\nPlease
    give me a recommended reading list, prioritized from 1 to 5. Do you know if I
    can get them at the Barnes and Nobles web site, or from some other place?\r\n\r\nI
    read and understand scholarly Hebrew.\r\n\r\nUsually, older books on Hebrew grammar,
    particularly great works from the Rishonim are out of print. There is a book store
    in Boro Park, Brooklyn, that has almost every book imaginable made up of bound
    photocopies.\r\n\r\nDo you know Beigleheisen (sp) on 15th Avenue?\r\n\r\nI know
    about Beigleheisen by coincidense. About 12 years ago, I published for test marketing
    purposes volume 13 of the Talmud, with most of it newly typeset totally with a
    private set of Hebrew typefaces which replicated the classic Vilna, Lithuania
    fonts, of the Widow and Brothers Romm family. "
  created: '2008-09-10 21:15:16'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\n> When you\u2019re going to understand that rules-shmules are
    nothing; you need to know:\r\n1. the verb system\r\n2. verb pattern groups: pa\u2019al,
    nif\u2019al, pi\u2019el, pu\u2019al, hitpa\u2019el, hif\u2019il, huf\u2019al;
    verb tenses\r\n3. root composition: week verbs & strong verbs / irregular & regular
    verbs\r\n4. particles\r\n5. the noun system\r\n6. pronouns\r\n7. biblical/cantillation
    stuff\r\n\r\n\r\nI know much of this already. I like knowledge, and believe in
    refresher courses.\r\n\r\nI think the issues of shva-na, kamatz-katan, and hataf-kamatz-katan
    can be understood without any knowledge of \"biblical and cantillation stuff.\r\n\r\nNevertheless,
    after learning matters in Jewish mysticism about nikkudot, taggim etc., I believe
    grammar, nikkudot, taggim, and taamim, are inter-related and one causes the other.
    Hence, I would like to understand grammar, nikkudot, taggim, and taamim, in depth,
    and this understanding would shed intense light on each subject.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-10 21:35:12'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\n> About the rest of your post....There is nothing new Beneath
    the sun.\r\n\r\nWhat are you refering to?\r\n\r\nIn yeshiva, people often asked:
    \"What's new?\" with the Biblical phrase: \"There is nothing new under the sun\",
    \"Mah chadash tachat hashemesh?\"\r\n\r\nI used to reply: \"Babies\"."
  created: '2008-09-10 21:44:48'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\n> Well, if John [Hudson] is your role model... why aren\u2019t
    you respectful, resourcefulness, knowledgeable, wise.... much like John, huh?
    \r\n\r\nFirst, people think that I am very respectful etc.\r\n\r\nI do respect
    John very much, and consider him both very talented and super-intelligent, but
    he is not my role model. Maybe, you define this term differently than me.\r\n\r\nThe
    Talmud teaches us that a wise person can learn from everybody. In that sense,
    everyone is my role model. John, William, even you ( :) just kidding).\r\n\r\nBob
    Dylan said that everybody sets an example, either a good one to emulate, or a
    bad one, not to follow.\r\n\r\nAs a chassidic Jew, my ultimate role model is the
    seventh Lubavitcher Rebbe."
  created: '2008-09-11 01:38:43'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\n> There are students that learn Introduction to Biblical Hebrew
    for two years (four semester course)!!! what do you think that I\u2019m going
    to sit here and post 24/7? Get it? \r\n\r\nIt is clear possible to absorb what
    takes others two years, to do this and even more within a much shorter time.\r\n\r\nI
    am unaware if this understanding exists yet in secular knowledge. \r\n\r\nChassidic
    thought explains that every person is endowed with two sets of talents: kochot
    giluim, and kochot ne'ehlamim (tangible powers, and 'hidden' powers). \r\n\r\nUsing
    our ordinary talents (kochot giluim, tangible powers), something like Biblical
    Hebrew may take two years to absorb. Using our unusual talents (kochot ne'ehlamim,
    'hidden' powers), something like Biblical Hebrew can take even a short time to
    absorb. "
  created: '2008-09-11 02:05:44'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "<cite>Koreen Publishing was purchased by another firm. In addition to creating
    a special typeface only for their Bible (based upon drawings of Ashkenazic sources),
    contravercial rules for Hebrew grammar were introduced as well. This was attributed
    to Mr. Koren. You say differently. I think you\u2019re right, and they\u2019re
    mistaken, confusing the name of the company with the details of contraversy maker.</cite>\r\n\r\nJust
    to set the record straight. Israel, please please please check your facts before
    posting on forums. I am going through all your posts to check for incorrect postings.\r\n\r\nSo
    firstly, Koren Publishers Jerusalem Ltd was bought out a year and a half ago.
    The typeface was created over 45 years ago. We are simply redigitising the font.
    It's identical to the original font created by Eliyahu Koren except rather than
    being cast in metal, it's being cast in OpenType :-)\r\n\r\nThe rules for Hebrew
    grammar that were used are the same. Nothing has changed for the past 45 years.
    The Bible was proofread for 10 years before being published. \r\n\r\nAs a fact,
    it is considered to be the most accurate Bible in Israel. Contrary to what Israel
    wrote, Charedim do not like Breuer. Breuer was an academic and actually it's the
    Modern Orthodox Gush Etzion Yeshiva bochurim that like Breuer. Charedim actually
    buy Koren. We have huge sales in Bnei Brak!\r\n\r\nFinally you will find Koren
    Bibles in every shul, be it Ashkenaz, Sefard, Edot Mizrach, Moroccon or Yemenite.
    If anybody has a problem with the kriat hatorah, then the Rav of the shul, regardless
    of his ethnic, political or dress code, will invariably say, \"what does it say
    in the Koren\".\r\n\r\nRegarding your comments on kamatz katan, shva na and furtive
    patach. Yes the furtive patach can be encoded (we have done so in the digital
    version of the Koren fonts). However, you cannot encode a kamatz katan or shva
    na. The reason is that there are so many opinions as to when a shva na should
    be put as well as a kamatz katan. I, when starting at Koren, also thought that
    this would be a simple grammatical process, but after months of understanding
    the complexities, I realised that you can't encode the entire Bible with all it's
    opinions into a font. It also serves no function. What are you going to do if
    Publisher B wants to print his Bible and disagrees with the opinions that you
    have relied on for the meteg vs gaaya thus changing whether it should be kamatz
    katan or shva na?\r\n\r\nIn terms of siddurim with shva na at the beginning of
    a word. The Koren siddur which came out in 1981 has a shva na and shva nach indicated
    in the non-Tanakh parts of the siddur and the first letter is indicated as a shva
    na. I thought that this was daft since obviously it's a shva na, but Israel, you
    have proved Mr Koren correct in that some people think it's a shva nach!\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-14 06:39:32'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael,\r\n\r\n><cite>...it\u2019s being cast in OpenType...</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat
    does this mean?\r\n\r\nIs this FontLab Studio limited OpenType? Adobe's code based
    tools known as the \"Tool Kit\"? Or MicroSoft \"Visual Opentype L-something T-something?
    (Help, Simon)\r\n\r\nWhen a person says OpenType, to which kind does he refer?\r\n\r\n\"Smart\"
    OpenType, with GSUB and GPOS? The mediocre kind with Liga support? Or the candy
    wrapper kind that's no big deal?\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-14 07:56:45'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "R.,\r\n\r\n><cite>Charedim actually buy Koren. We have huge sales in Bnei
    Brak!</cite>\r\n\r\nNo Cheredi buys a Tanach without at least Rashi and Onkelos,
    as Chazal advise.\r\n\r\nIt's well known that such Bibles are popular among IDF-nics,
    tourists - Jewish and Christian, and non-learners.\r\n\r\nTo who do you refer?\r\n\r\nGranted,
    it is a sacred book, prepared meticulously, but rejected by most Charedim.\r\n\r\nAsk
    a knowledgeable rabbi if one could buy a Koren Bible or one with Rashi and Onkelos,
    which one should he or she choose?"
  created: '2008-11-14 08:06:09'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael,\r\n\r\nI believe to create a set of fonts with automatic placement
    of kamatz katan and shva-na is possible.\r\n\r\nIn practicality, there are two
    systems; one is more generous with attributing a shva-na than the other; they
    do share 65% to 75% in common. although different context analysis is used for
    nikkud/meteg only data, than for Tanach data with taamim, because in Tanach data
    with taamim the meteg does not help determine certain shva-nas, but one of the
    taamim does this.\r\n\r\nIt's simple to generate two versions: Kehot=like, following
    Rav Henna's system, or ArtScroll-like folowing Vilna Gaon's system. What the customer
    pays for, the customer gets."
  created: '2008-11-14 08:16:34'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "<cite>What does this mean?\r\n\r\nIs this FontLab Studio limited OpenType?
    Adobe\u2019s code based tools known as the \u201CTool Kit\u201D? Or MicroSoft
    \u201CVisual Opentype L-something T-something? (Help, Simon)\r\n\r\nWhen a person
    says OpenType, to which kind does he refer?\r\n\r\n\u201CSmart\u201D OpenType,
    with GSUB and GPOS? The mediocre kind with Liga support? Or the candy wrapper
    kind that\u2019s no big deal?</cite>\r\n\r\nSorry. I should have simply said it
    was being done on the computer. \r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>No Cheredi buys a Tanach without
    at least Rashi and Onkelos, as Chazal advise.\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s well known that
    such Bibles are popular among IDF-nics, tourists - Jewish and Christian, and non-learners.</cite>\r\n\r\nAgain,
    you are talking without knowing the facts. I have our sales figues at hand, you
    don't. The army for the past few years has actually produced it's own illegal
    copy of our Bible so they haven't bought from us. Yes, tourists buy. And yes,
    even though you think you know what all Charedim in Israel do, it just so happens
    that you are completely wrong in this matter too and that we have very high volume
    sales of Koren Tanachim to Charedim here in Israel who need a pure text. But again,
    our sales have nothing to do with typography, but then again neither does Lubavitch
    Chasidism.\r\n\r\nLet's stick to the topics at hand. I know you are desperate
    to create a font that has kamatz katan and shva na grammar rules according to
    once system programmed into it. Good luck, I hope you find a system that works.
    It didn't work for Koren, but where one person fails, another can succeed.\r\n\r\nBut
    please, Scott, I implore you, please please please, don't post things which aren't
    true. If you wish to state your opinion, state it as an opinion not as a fact.
    You have written time and time again incorrect things about Koren and I wonder
    what other incorrect things you write and this does a diservice to every one here.
    Finally, why are you asking about grammar rules of such an esoteric topic such
    as taamey mikra on a forum for typography? Aren't you completely off-topic?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-14 09:39:38'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Rephael,\r\n\r\n><cite>...why are you asking about grammar rules of such
    an esoteric topic such as taamey mikra on a forum for typography? Aren\u2019t
    you completely off-topic?</cite>\r\n\r\nI ask myself this too each day.\r\n\r\nBut
    as the thread began, this subject of an automatic response, like the effect of
    the furtive patach, is an issue of OpenType's advanced programming in Volt, using
    the GSUB command in a creative way.\r\n\r\nSo, it is on topic (as you see, my
    interest is understanding how kamatz katan and shva-na can be derived fromcontext,
    not in the traditional grammatical way)."
  created: '2008-11-14 12:39:04'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "Okay, touche! But I think the problem here is your obsession of creating
    a perfect font which of course there is nothing wrong with, on the contrary, but...
    and here is the kicker, you need to define the scope of a perfect font.\r\n\r\nI'll
    tell you another secret, since, to date, I think I'm the only person to have created
    a taamey mikra font to this complexity, I would strongly suggest that you first
    create the font that works within the scope of the full Tanakh (including sifrey
    emet), with no collisions and if you like with the furtive patach indicated like
    in Koren. Once you have succeeded in doing this and compiling such a font (no
    mean task) then see if you can make an \"intelligent\" font which puts in automatic
    kamatz katan and shva na according to whatever system you decide on.\r\n\r\nI
    strongly recommend you do this in this order. The task is monumental. As you create
    the font, you'll understand why I'm saying to do in 2 stages. You need to compile
    the font at the end of the day and Volt is limited as to the number of instructions
    you can compile. \r\n\r\nWe have decided that first the font has to be kerned
    and have kerned every single pair (not just a few problematic ones). This took
    up a tremendous amount of space. We then decided to create a very accurate positioning
    system with very few compromises. Yes a kamatz, patach, tzere and segol are positioned
    the same, but they are different from a kamatz katan and a chataf kamatz and a
    chataf kamatz katan. \r\n\r\nThis all takes up valuable lines of code within the
    font. We are hoping that we will be able to compile the final font, but we are
    probably going to have a separate font for sifrey emet since the rules of taamim
    are different for these 3 books and I don't think the font will handle that.\r\n\r\nThis
    is why I say, wait with your \"intelligent features\" until you have your main
    face working.\r\n\r\nI've just received a commission from a community that wants
    me to create a siddur for them. They davka don't want a shva na but they do want
    a kamatz katan. How would you handle such a client? In my Koren font, I have a
    medium weight shva for such a situation and because it's not automatic I have
    no problem.\r\n\r\nAlso, you have only talked about Tanakh, but what if somebody
    wants to use your typeface for setting a siddur. Let's say they want your font
    because you have taamim for the shema but don't need it any thing else? If so,
    how would handle different rules for words from different periods of time. Eg
    how would you handle Yevarechcha which has no shva na because that rule didn't
    exist at the time of the Tanakh, or Ata rather than aTA from texts from the Rishonim?
    \r\n\r\nOr is siddur not of any interest?"
  created: '2008-11-14 13:24:37'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Raphael, if you'll indulge a novice, what is the difference between a chataf
    kamatz and a chataf kamatz katan? I thought all chataf kamatz were pronounced
    the same, as a kamatz katan. Does this have something to do with te'amim?
  created: '2008-11-14 13:35:48'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "sorry, technically speaking all chataf kamatzim are the same as a chataf
    kamatz katan.\r\n\r\nHowever, if you are distinguising visually between a kamatz
    katan and kamatz gadol (a recent invention), then you'll want to make the chataf
    kamatz (since it's katan) different too. Ie if you are enlarging the kamatz katan
    then your chataf kamatz will be enlarged too. If you are not distinguishing then
    you'll want the chataf kamatz to be a regular sized kamatz, so you'll need two
    glyphs in the font."
  created: '2008-11-14 13:46:52'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Raphael,\r\n\r\n> Eg how would you handle Yevarechcha which has no shva na
    because that rule didn\u2019t exist at the time of the Tanakh, or Ata rather than
    aTA from texts from the Rishonim?\r\n\r\n\r\nI still don't understand where &
    why there's a problem with Ata vs. aTA -- or any other word ? We call it Nasog
    Ahor, retraction of the accent. This issue is a little bit complex  since  there're....
    [I see my notes now] ....something around 40 rules + exceptions!!!!\r\n\r\nGenesis
    18 (the same word, of course). \r\nSample #1 is verse 32: Milra (the letter resh);
    the bet is with sheva. \r\nSample #2 is verse 30: Milel (the letter bet) , nasog
    ahor, and since of the nasog the bet is with tsere.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Gen2_5142.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\nPsalms
    89: 27, 76:8 -- Ata vs. aTA\r\n\r\nsince of the nasog we change the patach to
    kamats; and the original position of the accent was under the tav.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ps89_5874.gif]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ps76_5399.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nBTW,
    Israel, sheva after Nasog Ahor is Na (and not Nach!). See the classic example
    (Genesis 21: 6)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Gen21_4068.gif]"
  created: '2008-11-14 20:53:12'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Israel,\r\n\r\nAs you know some scholars say A..... and some scholars say
    B. For example: Hosea 2:17.\r\n\r\nKoren Bible -- Milra\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/HoseaKoren_6387.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\nBreuer,
    and also Dotan (Adi Bible) -- Milel (nasog ahor)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Hosea_3932.gif]\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-14 23:44:20'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nI guess I didn't articulate very well what I wanted to say,
    but you did much better than me in your samples. The point that I was trying to
    make, which you did so visually well, is that there are lots of exceptions and
    opinions which Israel doesn't realise and therefore encoding all options within
    a font won't ever work. However, Israel really wants it to work so I've given
    up arguing with him.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-15 15:55:02'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Shavuah tov!\r\n\r\nre: Chataf Kamatz Katan\r\n===================\r\n\r\nProf.
    Aron Dotan also sincerely asked about the distinction between chataf kamatz and
    chataf kamatz katan. This indicates that he thinks there is validity of a distinction,
    but was asking what that distinction is, and whether he agrees with it, or not.\r\n\r\nI
    cited examples which Shai Lemorah published (they are posted here) where what
    appears by most everyone as chataf kamatz should rather be chataf kamatz katan.\r\n\r\nAccording
    Shai Lemorah's publisher, Rabbi Shmuel Yehuda Winefels, there is clearly a difference.\r\n\r\nHence,
    if it alludes Prof. Dotam and inspire him to ask, I think Raphael - with all due
    respect - is not qualified to answer.\r\n\r\nI search for similarly structure
    Hebrew words in Chumash, the Bible, Pentateuch, and sure enouth Shai Lemorah indicated
    that it needed not a kamatz katan, but rather a chataf kamatz katan. Furthermore,
    in Shai Lemorah printing the famous Zemirot which are sung on the Sabbath, chataf
    kamatz katan also appears.\r\n.\r\n.\r\nThe argument against the shva-na symbol
    being applied to Biblical verses is very weak. Even nikkudot, nor taamim, were
    not around when Moses received the Torah.\r\n\r\nObvious, the application of shva-na
    symbols is more than justified, as the pronuncition indicated b a shva-na sysbol
    always existed. At one point in time, we learned about it. Later, scholars as
    great as Rabbi David Kimchi at his time, or Rav Zalman Henna (Hanau) at his time,
    or Rabbi Shmuel Yehuda Winefield in our time, introduced these symbols to us.\r\n\r\nJust
    because in earlier times, knowledge of a symbol was not known is no valid reason
    that when it is known later, it can not be applied to text from an earlier time.\r\n\r\nIf
    this foolish assumption (no offence) was true, today people would eat each other
    alive, because coexistance was discovered at an earlier time."
  created: '2008-11-16 00:41:30'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "Israel,\r\n\r\nYet again you mix things up and misunderstand the point. Let
    me explain to you slowly:\r\n\r\n\r\n1. The kamatz gadol and kamatz katan are
    traditionally indicated visually in the same way. It's the same nikud representation
    and it's typically just called a kamatz. That's it. \r\n\r\n2. Some publishers
    in the past, typically of non-Ashkenazi siddurim, indicated it differently because
    that particular nusach pronounced it differently and not everyone reading the
    siddur was educated enough to know the difference. For example, I remember seeing
    a siddur from 1890s or so for the Spanish and Portuguese congregation which had
    a cut-off kamatz to indicate kamatz katan.\r\n\r\n3. The Rinat Yisrael Siddur
    in the 1970s and the Koren Siddur which came out in the 1980s were the first large-scale
    Ashkenazi siddurim to popularise the enlarged kamatz as a kamatz katan since in
    the Israeli pronunciation system, kamatz katan is pronounced differently.\r\n\r\n4.
    Not all siddurim and chumashim however, make this distinction for many reasons.
    For example the Koren Tanakh doesn't have this distinction because the grammatical
    rules for determining kamatz katan is different for <i>sephardim</i> and <i>ashkenazim<i>
    and Elyahu Koren didn't want his Tanakh to be sectarian but rather for all of
    <i>am yisrael</i>.\r\n\r\n5. If you are <i>not</i> going to indicated the kamatz
    katan with an enlarged kamatz and are going to use the regular kamatz symbol for
    both kamatz katan and kamatz gadol (eg Artscroll and thousands of other Jewish
    publications over the centuries), then you are going to use the regular chataf
    kamatz symbol even though of course it is always pronounced \"oh\".\r\n\r\n6.
    If you are going to indicated kamatz katan by using a separate glyph, then there
    is a strong argument for using a similarly enlarged chataf kamatz for all chataf
    kamatzim since they are all katan. One could argue that this is moot since they
    are all katan in the same way one could argue that making the shva at the beginning
    of a word larger to indicate a shva na is daft because the shva at the beginning
    of a word is always shva, however, Israel has already demonstrated that at least
    one person in the world (who happens to be Israel) thought that all shvas at the
    beginnning of the word were nach! Therefore for the benefit of Israel, I would
    recommend all publishers making the chataf kamatz enlarged if they are making
    the kamatz katan larger.\r\n\r\nThat was point about the kamatz katan and the
    chataf kamatz katan. And, I should add, I may not be a grammarian, but I have
    typeset 2 siddurim (the new Singer's (UK) and the new Koren (USA/OU)), 5 chumashim
    (one for Chabad I might add) and the entire 2nd edition of Encylopedia Judaica
    including the complicated article on Masora in which I sat for many hours with
    Prof. Dotan (mentioned somewhere on these threads). If that doesn't make me qualified
    on a typography forum, I'm not what does.\r\n\r\nIn reference to the shva na.
    I'm not sure what you are saying. I'm not saying that the shvas shouldn't be distinguished
    in a Tanakh, I'm just pointing out that it's not. To date, an accurate Tanakh
    with shva na and shva nach indicated doesn't yet exist. We at Koren are producing
    one, but it's many many years away.\r\n\r\nInterestingly you don't bring up indicating
    dagesh chazak and dagesh kal...\r\n\r\nFinally, Israel, you confuse many topics
    into one. You seem to talk about:\r\na) what should be encoded on the Unicode
    standards\r\nb) what publishers should do\r\nc) what you think should be hard-encoded
    into a font\r\nd) what the rebbe would have done in such a situation\r\ne) you
    ask advise about grammar and then act as though you are an expert based on what
    you have learned on the thread 5 minutes earlier\r\nf) disseminating incorrect
    information about various topics (is that just to get people to write back and
    argue with you)\r\n\r\n\r\nI'm curious, after all these months of ranting, have
    you actually created a single font that works?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-16 03:35:28'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Are suggesting, there is no practical difference between kamataz katan and
    chataf kamatz?\r\n\r\nIf yes, why does Shay Lemorah differentiate between a chataf
    kamatz and chataf kamatz <strong>katan</strong>?"
  created: '2008-11-16 07:31:34'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "><cite>...5 chumashim (one for Chabad I might add)...</cite>\r\n\r\nDid you
    do Rabbi Vishnefsky's new Chumash for Chabad of Callifornia publish by Kehot?"
  created: '2008-11-16 07:34:38'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "><cite>To date, an accurate Tanakh with shva na and shva nach indicated doesn\u2019t
    yet exist.</cite>\r\n\r\nShay Lemorah, 2nd edition, did it a few years ago.\r\n\r\nVisit
    Rabbi Shmuel Yehuda Winefeld \u05D4\u05E8\u05D1 \u05E9\u05DE\u05D5\u05D0\u05DC
    \u05D9\u05D4\u05D5\u05D3\u05D4 \u05D5\u05E0\u05E4\u05DC\u05D3 - he live in Jerusalem,
    and created a custom font with:\r\na) elongated kamatz for kamatz katan\r\nb)
    a floating asterisk within a circle for a shva-na symbol\r\nand ta-dah\r\nc) a
    chataf kamatz katan\r\n\r\nProf. Dotan asked me: \"What's that?\"\r\n\r\nThe professor
    asks the fool!"
  created: '2008-11-16 07:42:42'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "><cite>...Interestingly you don\u2019t bring up indicating dagesh chazak
    and dagesh kal...</cite>\r\n\r\nDavid brought it in the ice age (a few posts back)
    about the gimmeel dagusha of geula, which I mistakenly left out its dagesh. Stupid
    me.\r\n\r\nAfter a few more posts, you know after the ice stated to melt, and
    David cited millions of examples (I think Mike got involved too), David explain
    there were strong and weakdagesges.\r\n\r\nIs that what you mean?\r\n\r\nIf so,
    how do we know a dagesh is chazak strong or kal weak?\r\n\r\nWhen it breaks rule,
    we say that normally its weak, but here its strong. And save face."
  created: '2008-11-16 07:50:08'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "><cite>d) what the rebbe would have done in such a situation</cite>\r\n\r\nCome
    on, I did not.\r\n\r\nThe Rebbe was in for of not changing thew status quo when
    it came to books.\r\n\r\nIn fact, he was againt retypesetting classic works. Why?
    Because why one retypesets, new printers' errors result.\r\n\r\nEven though for
    me he blessed my desire to retypeset the Talmud etc. Why? Because I don't make
    typos? Sure, I make a lot more typos than you! If I had a dollar for typo, Warren
    Buffet would sweep my floor for Shabbat. \"Here, Warren, you missed this corner.\"\r\n\r\nNot
    to say, the Rebbe followed the status quo. In 1951, after he became Rebbe, he
    pulled out of Agudat Yisroel.\r\n\r\n\"They talk talk talk about kiruv, we gonna
    do it.\"\r\n\r\nHe made Chabad Houses. In the early, one day they will everywhere.
    Today, Chabad House are in more places in the world than Coca-Cola. Today, Lubavitch
    is the fastest growing biggest influence in Jewish world. You know it in your
    own life.\r\n\r\nWilliam, in the next few decades Reform will go the way of the
    maskilim. A thing of the past."
  created: '2008-11-16 08:02:46'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "><cite>I\u2019m curious, after all these months of ranting, have you actually
    created a single font that works?</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, many.\r\n\r\nI am a professional
    type design in non-Roman languages.\r\n\r\nIn the last three months, with the
    professional help from Diane Collier (highly recommended by the MicroSoft Typography
    Group) and with a very close working relationship with John Hudson (he never heard
    of Tzika - such a liar -0 you well for his non-Shomer Shabbat skills - yes the
    Koren Bible was made through Hilul Shabbat - nowonder Cheredim don't want it),
    I have mastered Volt.\r\n\r\nMy goal is to make 100 Biblical Hebrew face in 2009.
    Most of which will be sold commercially, as I described earlier. Some will be
    reserved for me to use exclusively to retypeset all the classic books produced
    by Romm and others. Then, I will release then.\r\n\r\nCrown (my Koren) I won't
    release until after you do not to hinder your sales. In the USA, design is not
    protected by US Copyright laws. Patent is, but I doubt if you'll or Tzvika will
    patent it.\r\n\r\nTo answer your question: 2 Frankruhls (which you saw), 2 Henris
    (Hadasa), 2 Milons (New Hadasa-like, 1 AchimRomm-Dark, very soon a lot more."
  created: '2008-11-16 08:16:32'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Back to the beginning of this thread, according to Minchat Shai and Rabbi
    Shmuel Yehuda Winefeld of Shay Lemorah an upper taam never occurs in the place
    of shva-na.\r\n\r\nHence, the rules for upper taamim and shva-na must be connected.\r\n\r\nWe
    don't know yet what that is. "
  created: '2008-11-16 08:20:31'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael,\r\n\r\nLook at the thread called \"Sheva, custom marks...\" for
    a discussion of dagesh chazak.\r\n\r\nTo me it was a shock.\r\n\r\nNow, I wish
    someone would define clearly what differs between a long and short vowel. William,
    please explain.\r\n\r\nThen, explain how that defines whether or not the next
    letter's shva is na or nach? Kimchi doesn't.\r\n\r\nIt's chocalate. Just eat it.
    It tastes good, believe me. Sounds like blind faith to me, and I'm the reliogious
    guy. Me and Raphael.\r\n\r\nAfter that, David, please explain or show as before
    a meteg causing the next letter's shvah to be...na or nach. I think you said nach.\r\n\r\nNow,
    what about Biblical text, which Rabbi Shmuel Rabin said has a different meteg,
    a secondary accent mark or stress, and a certain taam does what does in non-Biblical
    text, the primary accent mark or stress. Is it a particular taam, or does it change
    depending upon the verse?"
  created: '2008-11-16 08:33:53'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> After that, David, please explain or show as before a meteg causing the
    next letter\u2019s shvah to be...na or nach. I think you said nach.\r\n\r\nIsrael,\r\ndo
    you like to post or read? do you see my  post with nasog ahor + sheva na (Genesis
    21: 6); do you see the meteg/gaya -- not regular heavy gaya"
  created: '2008-11-16 20:12:25'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\n= Chataf Kamats =\r\n\r\nThe chataf kamats -- that said, chatuf,
    katan -- wasn't a must by the Masorah (optional by the scribes). \r\n\r\nAleppo
    MS -- there are only 4! words with chataf kamats.\r\nLeningrad MS -- 1! word.\r\nLm
    MS -- 2 words.\r\n\r\nSee the example -- Aleppo, Jeremiah 2:12\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/KamatsKA_5199.gif]\r\n\r\n
    [img:sites/default/files/old-images/KamatsKB_3419.gif]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-17 17:55:10'
date: '2008-08-03 04:00:29'
title: Position of Upper Taamei Mikrah

---
