---
author:
  name: Nick Cooke
  picture: 109834
body: "I was testing one of my own fonts in Quark 7 and I noticed that the kerning
  was not showing even though 'Use OpenType kerning' is checked in the Preferences.
  I thought it must be something I'd done wrong, so I tried other OT fonts which I
  know have kerning. The same problem shows up - Quark not recognizing OT kerning.\r\n\r\nThe
  picture shows Arno Pro Regular 48pt set solid. The type at the top is set in Quark,
  the type beneath in InDesign, clearly showing kerning between cap T and the following
  lower case glyphs.\r\n\r\nHas anybody else had this problem, or am I missing something
  obvious here?\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Kernpic_5637.jpg]"
comments:
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: Not sure about your own kerning but AFAIK Arno Pro uses an extension lookup
    type for kerning. Not every app can deal with this. Maybe XP7 is one of them?
    Do you have a chance to test XP8?
  created: '2008-08-04 14:27:18'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'I''d like to hear more about this. I hope it isn''t a matter of Adobe finding
    a way to prevent Quark from doing kerning -- rather analogous to the well-documented
    and never fully repaired fault that ruined ATM Deluxe on the Mac: it declared
    most of the Monotype and Bitstream libraries to be ''broken'' when they weren''t.
    (MacWEEK, 17-MAR-97, p. 1) It''s not pleasant to have to report, but Adobe knew
    what it was doing. They desperately wanted MT and Bitstream to be declared ''broken''.
    Why else did they never fix the problem? And did they really expect reviewers
    to accept that these long-established libraries were broken? Yes, they did.'
  created: '2008-08-05 01:44:42'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> I hope it isn\u2019t a matter of Adobe finding a way to prevent Quark from
    doing kerning \r\n\r\nFor some reason that's the first thing that came to my mind:
    Seinfeld \u2014 The Mom and Pop Store.\r\n\r\n\r\nJERRY: Hey, so where's my sneakers?\r\n\LKRAMER:
    That's what I wanna know.\r\n\LJERRY: What do you mean?\r\n\LKRAMER: Well, I saw
    Mom and Pop this morning, but when I went by the store on my way home? The place
    was empty. Everything is gone. Mom and Pop - vrooop - vanished.\r\n\LJERRY: So
    all my sneakers are gone?\r\n\LKRAMER: I'm afraid so. And that's just the tip
    of the iceberg. I've been asking around - they didn't even have any kids.\r\n\LJERRY:
    Mom and Pop aren't even a Mom and Pop?!\r\n\LKRAMER: It was all an act, Jerry.
    They conned us, and they scored, big time.\L\LELAINE (amused): So. Mom and Pop's
    plan was to move into the neighborhood...establish trust...for 48 years. And then,
    run off with Jerry's sneakers.\r\n\LKRAMER: Apparently.\r\n\L\LELAINE: Alright,
    that's enough of this.\L"
  created: '2008-08-05 02:38:16'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "@ Bill and David,\r\nWe, the Adobe Type Group, definitely have better things
    to do with our time than to think of ways to stop the kerning from working in
    other apps. It works in TextEdit and Notepad, so there's no reason for it not
    to work in QuarkXPress.\r\n\r\nYour concerns about Arno Pro's kerning have no
    ground. It was all laid down before, more than a year ago at http://typophile.com/node/34059
    . So please, next time do your homework first and stop wasting my time with nonsense.\r\n\r\n@
    David,\r\n[[http://typophile.com/node/34059#comment-206045|Are you still planning
    to e-mail me the \"whole problem\" ?]] Haven't received anything yet...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Arno_textEdit_5272.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Arno_notepad_5019.png]\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-05 05:14:59'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> @ Bill and David,\r\n\r\nWhy me?\r\n\r\n> We, the Adobe Type Group, definitely
    have better things to do with our time than to think of ways to stop the kerning
    from working in other apps.\r\n\r\nWe tried to say that to Bill.  Read the lines
    & between the lines, the whole so-called \"conspiracy theory\". So, next time
    \ jokes + an explanation ? :^)"
  created: '2008-08-05 05:47:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "I just wanted to know why OT kerning doesn't show in Quark 7. Not necessarily
    Adobe fonts - any OT fonts. Have you tried Arno Pro in QX7 Miguel?\r\n\r\nI had
    thought there was something wrong with my typeface, so I just picked Arno Pro
    for comparison purposes to see if the kerning worked in different programs.\r\n\r\n\r\nNick
    Cooke"
  created: '2008-08-05 09:48:58'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "OK, I've read the other thread. It is just as I feared. Adam Twardoch states,\r\n\r\n'The
    kerning lookup(s) in Arno Pro are so complex that the decompiler in FontLab Studio
    fails to interpret the code for it. But of course kerning is in there.'\r\n\r\nIt
    is just as I feared. Adobe has broken Fontlab. Again.\r\n\r\nNow I cannot remember
    Yuri or Adam ever whining to me about Adobe giving them adequate support. That's
    not the Russian way, that's not the Polish way.\r\n\r\nBut Macromedia whined!
    Adobe never gave Fog adequate MM support. Application developers whined by the
    hundreds: Adobe never gave them adequate MM support. The type group is so paranoid
    and so arrogant that it never even gave Adobe's own app developers adequate MM
    support, which is why it took Apple and Lari Software, together, to provide adequate
    MM support, briefly, around the mid-90s. And why is it so few programs -- certainly
    neither Fog nor Flag -- still -- can do intermediate masters?\r\n\r\nAnd when
    ATM Deluxe for Mac came out, and the Monotype and Bitstream libraries -- which
    up until then had worked impeccably -- were pronounced 'broken', Bitstream and
    Monotype didn't whine, they howled. Especially when Adobe didn't fix the problem.
    Even Microsoft has been bruised by Adobe's intransigence.\r\n\r\nWhy? Because
    Adobe at the gut level believes in proprietary standards. \r\n\r\nJohn Warnock
    cried in public when he was forced to announce Type 1 would no longer be private
    -- soon after TrueType was announced. Nothing has changed since then.\r\n\r\nThe
    Adobe type group historically does everything it can to keep as much type technology
    private as it can, whilst guiltily promoting its open-ness at every opportunity.\r\n\r\nNick,
    I have tried Arno in Quark 7.31 and can replicate your problem. But I don't see
    the problem with any other of a dozen OT fonts I have tried. It looks like it's
    Arno that broke Fontlab and Quark.\r\n\r\nTypical! How many designers said they'd
    never print with MMs because their service bureaus couldn't output the type? Adobe
    always said, 'old driver, old rasterizer. It's not our problem.' Like hell it's
    not your problem . . . \r\n\r\nSomehow Apple managed to get all this right in
    GX in 1995 without breaking anything. Type really does need to be more integrated
    with the OS. "
  created: '2008-08-05 11:02:43'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "By the way, Arno kerning also is broken in Word 2007. And I can't replicate
    the problem with any other font. How much money would you like to bet that Adobe
    will offer a fixed, free, download, within a few days? No, it will take months
    and years for the applications to get it right. 'Not our problem' - - and yet
    more proprietary typefaces from Adobe.\r\n\r\nDon't these guys even test their
    fonts? Like the rest of us? "
  created: '2008-08-05 11:21:54'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Oh yeah -- of course they test -- in CS. Which has its own rasterizer. Of
    course.\r\n\r\nWHY does Adobe build a rasterizer into its own apps? So it can
    use fonts other apps can't. \r\n\r\nIs there something wrong with this picture
    ?"
  created: '2008-08-05 11:37:18'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'Right. So Arno Pro has had this problem for a year. My version of Word 2007
    is totally up to date. When is Adobe going to fix the buggy product? Not that
    I like it, but there''s an important principle at stake here. Anyone tried it
    in Quark 8? I''ll try that in a day or two. If it doesn''t work, I''ll try to
    learn what Quark''s position is -- though I should imagine it was something like
    ''Adobe should build fonts that work with contemporary products.'' Imagine if
    MS tried something like this? But it would never happen. I guess the reason the
    font has never been fixed is that it just isn''t important enough. But .... keeping
    it broken is just the way you keep lots of people from using it. Why don''t they
    see it that way? '
  created: '2008-08-05 12:12:15'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "OK, I've tried Quark 8 on Vista; I'll try it on Mac later. Same thing: Arno
    doesn't kern; everything else does. Didn't notice many T kerns in MS-shipped FB
    Agency. David Berlow, if you're here, is that version of Agency without kerning?
    \r\n\r\nNick, may I suggest you rename this thread 'Kern problem in Arno Pro'
    ? The problem doesn't seem to have anything to do with Quark 7 or 8 per se, and
    doesn't seem to have anything to do with other OT fonts, and it does seem to be
    a problem with four apps so far: Fontlab, Quark 7 and 8, and MS Word 2007. No
    doubt there are many others.\r\n\r\nSo it's time to ask what Adobe QT found when
    they tested this font? If Adobe were now to claim that it didn't test the font
    on these apps, it would be difficult to believe. So then you have to ask, did
    Adobe know the font wasn't going to work and then decide to go ahead with it anyway,
    knowing that it would only be supported by CS? \r\n\r\nWhat's really going on
    here?"
  created: '2008-08-05 13:05:08'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill, extension format lookups are part of the OpenType spec and have been
    for a long time. If Quark or anyone else doesn't support them, that's an app bug
    or limitation not a problem with the fonts or any kind of conspiracy. The extension
    format is necessary when lookups get so big that they overflow the 16bit offset
    limit. While Arno might be unique among Adobe fonts in having an extension GPOS
    kern lookup, such lookups are far from uncommon in complex script fonts. I use
    them regularly. They are not only supported in Adobe apps but also by all Microsoft's
    OT Layout engines and, I suspect, by the various open source layout engines (ICU,
    Pango etc.). If it doesn't work in Quark apps, that's evidence that Quark is still
    lagging when it comes to OpenType layout.\r\n\r\nWord 2007 does not support any
    GPOS kerning for either TTF or CFF fonts, so for CFF fonts it relies on a blackbox
    on-the-fly conversion of a subset of kerning, which is now several years old.
    It is possible that this conversion doesn't know how to handle extension lookups.
    Again, this is not a bug in the font but a limitation in an older piece of software
    (and more generally a limitation of Word in failing to support GPOS kerning).\r\n\r\nWith
    regard to problems with FontLab being unable to decompile some aspects of OTL
    tables -- and kern extension lookups are hardly unique in this regard -- this
    is due to a combination of factors. It is important to realise, and remember,
    that FontLab probably never decompiles OTL tables to a source that corresponds
    one-to-one with the original source for the font, even if that original source
    was also a FontLab file. What FontLab tries to do is to decompile the tables in
    a way that provides, within the limitations of the version of AFDKO syntax that
    they use, equivalent results, i.e. what you get is reverse engineered output not
    reconstruction of the original input. If a font is pretty simple, FontLab can
    do a reasonable job at this and you might end up with something that you can recompile.
    I've never had any luck with this, but then my fonts tend not to be simple. Also
    bear in mind that FontLab still uses an earlier version of the AFKDO code for
    OTL; I presume that Arno was made using either the current AFKDO or that Adobe
    needed to update their internal tools in order to be able to produce this font.\r\n\r\nVOLT
    has had an option to use extension lookups since v1.2 (January 2006), and also
    to use PairPosFormat2, which is another thing that may not be supported by FontLab/AFDKO
    either in terms of decompiling or compiling.\r\n\r\nSo 'what is really going on
    here' is that Adobe have made a font following the published font format specification.
    So rather than saying 'Adobe should build fonts that work with contemporary products',
    I would say that contemporary products should support contemporary text layout,
    especially when that layout is part of an ISO standard specification."
  created: '2008-08-05 14:25:31'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Didn\u2019t notice many T kerns in MS-shipped FB Agency. David Berlow,
    if you\u2019re here, is that version of Agency without kerning?</em>\r\n\r\nAGENCYR.TTF
    has no kern table and no OpenType Layout tables, so no kerning. The absence of
    OTL is a pity, since the font does contain the variant A K M R U V W X and Y glyphs,
    but no way to access them (other than as raw GIDs via Adobe glyph palettes)."
  created: '2008-08-05 14:25:52'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">So \u2019what is really going on here\u2019 is that Adobe have made a font
    following the published font format specification. So rather than saying \u2019Adobe
    should build fonts that work with contemporary products\u2019, I would say that
    contemporary products should support contemporary text layout, especially when
    that layout is part of an ISO standard specification.<\r\n\r\nJohn! Exquisitely
    reasoned, but fatally wrong. We're talking about fonts here, and if a font doesn't
    work with just about everything out there, it's broken. If it doesn't work with
    Word, it's broke. If it doesn't work with Quark, it's broke.\r\n\r\nAdobe applied
    precisely the same reasoning that you have here to its defense of ATM Deluxe for
    Mac. They said, basically, the entire Monotype and Bitstream libraries 'don't
    follow the published font specification.'\r\n\r\nSo what happened? The fonts are
    still with us -- unchanged, still working. ATM Deluxe for Mac is gone. \r\n\r\nLook,
    I appreciate your viewpoint: in an ideal world, apps improve to meet new demands.\r\n\r\nBut
    your approach is way too ivory tower for this world. A font's just a font. It's
    got to work with apps that people are using every day that might be a decade old.
    Maybe one day the apps will be updated. But the user base never will be. And it's
    for users we build fonts. \r\n\r\nThat's why we test 'em. And if they don't work
    with Word, we don't publish 'em until they do work. \r\n\r\nSeriously, what would
    happen if Microsoft released a font that didn't work with Word and Quark? \r\n\r\nThis
    is the daffiest manufacturing situation I have yet encountered with an Adobe font.
    I guess David Lemon isn't doing testing anymore. Surely he'd never allow something
    like this. Tell me it ain't so!"
  created: '2008-08-05 17:42:35'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Couple more points: \r\n\r\n1. A major goal of companies like MS and Adobe
    -- and also font developers -- is to prevent support calls\r\n\r\n2. \"If you
    need more than 200 kerning pairs, your spacing is bad.\" -- Wise words from Alex
    Kaczun.\r\n\r\n3. If display problems are this bad already, think what printing
    problems are going to be like -- in the real world. \r\n\r\nYou have to wonder
    where the OT people's heads are -- GX had a foolproof mechanism for dealing with
    all of this -- everything fancy happened before the stream hit the PS print driver.
    Beautiful! Why can't they think like that today?"
  created: '2008-08-05 19:56:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Seriously, what would happen if Microsoft released a font that didn\u2019t
    work with Word and Quark? </em>\r\n\r\nMicrosoft have released fonts that don't
    work in Word, and when they realise this they sit down and figure out whether
    it is a font bug or an application bug. And then they log the bug on their bug
    tracking system and either it gets addressed by the relevant group (MST or Office)
    -- perhaps not immediately, perhaps only in the next major system or app release
    -- or a decision is made to live with the bug if there are concerns about backwards
    compatibility or document reflow. Over the past few years, my font work has resulted
    in the overhaul of the entire Uniscribe Hebrew layout engine, and the acknowledgement
    and/or fixing of numerous bugs in Word's kerning support, and that's just the
    stuff I'm allowed to talk about. Over on the Typophile Arabic SIG page there is
    a report of a major bug in WPF's Arabic mark-to-ligature handling, which this
    morning is being investigated by WPF developers at MS. And what is consistently
    the case in all these is that the font has been made according to the specification,
    and the app or layout engine is doing something wrong.\r\n\r\nYou need to get
    your head out of the Latin-centric graphic design world in which a 'font's just
    a font' that is expected to be compromised to accommodate limitations or bugs
    in application support. To Microsoft a font is an enabling technology for users
    to compute in their own languages, and hence a key to new markets. This is why
    MST is part of the MS internationalisation group. The work MST does supports font
    use across the whole range of MS products, but their core business is script and
    language support.\r\n\r\nI suppose if the only font you ever encountered with
    a GPOS extension lookup were Arno Pro, it might seem like a big deal. But as I
    said <em>extension lookups have been part of the OpenType specification for a
    long time</em> and they are used in a lot of other fonts. They just happen to
    be fonts that you don't encounter and that Quark doesn't even pretend to support.
    This is not some new or unknown technology that Adobe have capriciously decided
    to use in one font family, it is a well documented and reasonably common aspect
    of OpenType for the better part of a decade.\r\n\r\nQuark has a history, during
    this same period, of first not grasping the importance of multibyte character
    encoding (I was at the Unicode conference when they announced that there were
    sticking to 8-bit codepages) and then playing catch-up by implementing a virtual
    clone of InDesign 1.0 OTL support and never pushing much beyond that. I presume
    they test only with relatively simple Latin OT fonts, have not encountered any
    fonts with extension lookups, and presumed that this was something they could
    postpone supporting. Actually, now I think about it, <em>how does Quark do kerning?</em>
    -- are they actually supporting GPOS kerning at all or are they, like Word, doing
    an on-the-fly conversion to old-style kern pair data?\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-05 21:03:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Re. Alex Kaczun's comment about 200 kern pairs:\r\n\r\nHe was presumably
    talking about an 8-bit set of <256 glyphs (219 in the standard Windows Latin 1
    codepage). Kerning is factorial, since adjacency means that there is a potential
    need for kerning between any unique pair of glyphs. This means that the potential
    number of kern pairs in a font increases exponentially with an increase in the
    number of glyphs: <em>n!</em>\r\n\r\nArno Pro Regular contains 2,845 glyphs. Now,
    obviously not every glyph is expected to occur adjacent to every other glyph,
    nor is the maker of the font likely to consider every problematic adjacency to
    be a high priority. So let's consider Kaczun's proposed 200 kern per c.219 glyphs,
    and how that scales to 2,845 glyphs. The actual potential number of kern pairs
    in 219 glyphs -- <em>219!</em> -- is\r\n\r\n1.038118334506655207907848120507<strong>e+419</strong>\r\n\r\n[Remember
    that the exponent equals the number of decimal places the . needs to travel to
    the right (+) or left (-) in order to write the number out in full. So imagine
    the above number without the decimal point and with 389 zeros after it. Actually,
    no, don't imagine it. It looks like this:\r\n\r\n103,811,833,450,665,520,790,784,812,050,700,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,00,00,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,00,00,00,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,00,00,00,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000]\r\n\r\nYes,
    that many. Which means that 200 kern pairs equals an infintesimal fraction of
    the total number of potential kern pairs:\r\n\r\n1.9265626408095948382249858301366<strong>e-415</strong>
    %\r\n\r\nThe factorial of 2845 is the staggeringly huge\r\n\r\n2.6448619317498636060239040786471<strong>e+8593</strong>\r\n\r\nIf
    we presume a similarly limited and constrained set of kerning as a percentage
    of that number, we end up with\r\n\r\n5.0954921878087836162237868848158<strong>e+8176</strong>
    kern pairs\r\n\r\nTo put this in some kind of perspective, consider that the circumference
    of the earth is 18,933,146,496 picas. This means that, presuming an average glyph
    width of half an en (which is actually a bit narrower than the average width of
    glyphs in Arno Pro Regular), if you were to typeset the above kerning glyph pairs
    in 12pt type it would stretch around the world\r\n\r\n2.691307643388966896537442227804<strong>e+8166</strong>
    times\r\n\r\nOh, so that's not much easier to imagine. But that's the nature of
    factorial calculations, and that is why throwing around arbitrary numbers like
    200 as the maximum number of kern pairs any font needs is silly. One thing that
    is very clear from the numbers above is that, as a percentage of the possible
    number of kern pairs relative to glyph set size, the kerning in Arno Pro Regular
    is much <em>more limited and constrained</em> than Kaczun's dictum.\r\n\r\nI wonder
    what the expanded number of pair kerning in Arno Pro Regular is? To provide even
    reasonable kerning for a glyph set of more than a couple of hundred typical roman
    letter shapes requires class-based kerning technologies. Even so, you'd better
    be damn sure that the basic spacing is as good and efficient as it can be. I am
    working on kerning a display font with 4,517 glyphs, and even with strict limitations
    against cross-script kerning and use of contextual alternates to improve fit and
    avoid adjacency spacing problems, the number of expanded kern pairs is about 340,000.*
    But the number of class plus exception kerning pairs is less than 10,000, and
    I think I can probably whittle it down further.\r\n\r\n\r\n*Which is pretty small
    considering that the potential number of pairs is \r\n2.9936932664428451861273182257307<strong>e+14549</strong>\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-05 21:55:28'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "C'mon, John, you can play all the numbers games you want, but it doesn't
    alter the all-important fact that Adobe has introduced a font that only works
    in its own apps -- which all have their own built-in rasterizers. \r\n\r\nThis
    is of shattering significance. \r\n\r\nBecause it explains why Adobe is the only
    company to build rasterizers into its apps. \r\n\r\nNot a good pointer to where
    things are going. \r\n\r\n>You need to get your head out of the Latin-centric
    graphic design world in which a \u2019font\u2019s just a font\u2019 that is expected
    to be compromised to accommodate limitations or bugs in application support.<\r\n\r\nI'm
    too busy waiting for you guys to solve the problems of A-z and 0-9. I realize
    that isn't where the money is, but it's what I'm interested in. Those are the
    simple things that get forgotten when you're worrying about 100,000 kern pairs.
    As you know, my only real interest is the Western European book -- I can't change
    that. \r\n\r\nThe other thing I'm slightly interested in is Adobe's historical
    attraction to proprietary font technology, which Arno Pro effectively demonstrates,
    in its small way.\r\n\r\n>how does Quark do kerning? <\r\n\r\nIn Prefs/Project/General
    there's a switch to turn OT kerning on and off. I've asked Quark to look at this
    thread. I'm sure they would be delighted to send you an eval of 8, if you have
    time to look at it. "
  created: '2008-08-05 21:56:52'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "PS: Three great modern fonts designed to work without any kerning at all:\r\n\r\nTrinite\r\nCheneau\r\nGeorgia"
  created: '2008-08-05 23:04:46'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "What I mean to say is, kerning is not important enough for you to break a
    font for it. \r\n\r\nBy the way, John, if you have 340,000 kerning pairs to deal
    with, I hope you're considering Adobe's advice that kerning pairs must be evaluated
    at 2400 dpi typesetter output - - no onscreen fiddling! Even so, they're always
    making errors . . . . in 250-glyph fonts. "
  created: '2008-08-06 00:16:59'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>I wonder what the expanded number of pair kerning in Arno Pro Regular
    is?</em>\r\n\r\nFlattening the 1,2302 singleton+exceptions+class pairs yields
    1,001,048 pairs. The italic fonts will have more.\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-06 01:00:30'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>Adobe has introduced a font that only works in its own apps </em>\r\n\r\nNot
    true.\r\n\r\n> <em>Adobe\u2019s historical attraction to proprietary font technology,
    which Arno Pro effectively demonstrates</em>\r\n\r\nNot true."
  created: '2008-08-06 01:02:59'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "So \r\n\r\n      [not true] = [bugfix] ?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n      "
  created: '2008-08-06 01:38:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill, you are getting very confused here. This has nothing to do with either
    rasterisers or printer drivers. It has to do with OpenType Layout engines, and
    Adobe is far from the only company that 'roll it's own' in this regard. If Quark
    are offering anything like cross-platform parity in layout behaviour, then you
    can be pretty sure that they are also using their own OTL engine and not relying
    on system resources.\r\n\r\nNow, if Adobe is guilty of anything with regard to
    OTL engines, it is the same thing that everyone else is guilty of: partial implementation
    of the OT spec. Even Microsoft, who are so far ahead of everyone else in terms
    of what they support, don't handle everything that is in the spec, in their layout
    engines or in their tools: they just support a lot more than anyone else. My big
    complaint against Adobe, which I know they're tired of hearing -- and which I
    also know they are addressing --, is lack of support for one-to-many substitutions
    in their core text engines. I'm not paying very close attention to Quark, since
    they are not a significant entity in the market segment in which I operate, but
    obviously I would consider lack of support for extension lookup types to be an
    unwelcome limitation.\r\n\r\nI'm sorry, but your comments about 'proprietary font
    technology' really don't stand up. This is an ISO standard, Bill. The extension
    lookup types have been publicly documented since at least 2002. If using these
    lookup types indicates an attraction to proprietary font technology, then I'm
    way more guilty than Adobe, since I've used these lookup types for longer and
    in more projects. And so, I suspect, have plenty of my colleagues dealing with
    complex scripts. [If you want to blame someone for the existence of extension
    lookups, I suggest you start with Apple, since they are the people who defined
    the entire sfnt font format around 16bit assumptions, and hence made such mechanisms
    necessary.]\r\n\r\n***\r\nThis is one of those discussions in which I have said
    everything that I want to say, and in which I am only likely to repeat myself
    going forward. In concluding, I'll note that my perspective is anything but 'ivory
    tower'. I comment from the rock face, and I do consider it the proper business
    of app developers to build roads through behind me to the place where I am blasting.
    :)"
  created: '2008-08-06 04:46:46'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "John, good discussion, several points.\r\n\r\n1. That OT is an ISO standard
    is risible, as you know. It's part of MPEG. That means exactly nothing, even to
    MPEG people.\r\n\r\n2. You yourself have noted elsewhere that parts of the OT
    standard which don't work should be discarded.\r\n\r\n3. A font, no matter how
    complex, is never perceived by the vast majority of users as anything but a tiny
    functional widget that always works and never causes problems. \r\n\r\n4. For
    Adobe to release a font that only works with its own apps is like Sony releasing
    a CD that only plays on Sony players. \r\n\r\n5. It is possible for Adobe to make
    Arno work with existing software. They have chosen not to do so.\r\n\r\n6. It
    is thus clear that Adobe is trying to seek competitive advantage. The message
    is that if you want quality fonts going forward, you'll have to use Adobe fonts
    only. Unfortunately, the font isn't compelling enough, technologically or aesthetically,
    to make anyone care. But Adobe has always tried to push the message that _only_
    its fonts give reliable, professional, output.\r\n\r\n7. It is significant that
    Adobe has had to give this Trojan away. Of course. Nobody would actually buy it.
    To get a Trojan to work, you have to get the Trojan to spread. So you give it
    away."
  created: '2008-08-06 09:45:33'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Bill, you\u2019re making a fool of yourself.\r\nYour basic \u2018point\u2019
    (#4) <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/48059#comment-293451\">has been disproved</a>
    at the very beginning of this anti-discussion. Apple TextEdit and Microsoft Notepad
    are not Adobe software."
  created: '2008-08-06 10:19:06'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Tell me Florian, since when is Notepad used to set type? Or TextEdit, for
    that matter? That said, Notepad does indeed support ArnoPro's kerning. But that's
    unimportant, unless you use Notepad for word processing or layout. Do you? \r\n\r\nWhat's
    important is that Microsoft Word 2007 does not support Arno Pro. Neither does
    Quark 7 or 8. Neither does Microsoft Publisher 2007. How long is the list?\r\n\r\nNow
    please look at Adobe's thuggish response to David's complaint, above:\r\n\r\n'We,
    the Adobe Type Group, definitely have better things to do with our time ... no
    reason for it not to work in QuarkXPress ... Your concerns about Arno Pro\u2019s
    kerning have no ground...stop wasting my time with nonsense....'\r\n\r\nThis is
    the rudest response I have ever seen to a customer complaint in my life. And it's
    completely untrue. Arno Pro's kerning does, indeed, not work. It isn't nonsense.\r\n\r\nThe
    font doesn't work in Quark and Word 2007 and Publisher, and neither, probably,
    in the majority of Windows applications that do kerning. More testing would reveal
    this - - or Adobe, which has obviously done the testing, could simply come clean
    and publish a list of applications which it knows are broken by Arno Pro.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    it works in TextEdit -- if so, that's a tribute to the GX-derived OS support.
    Yet Apple isn't even a co-developer of OT. MS and Adobe are. And MS doesn't believe
    in putting the depth of font support at OS level that Apple does. It's a justifiable
    though very expensive position to take. \r\n\r\nIn any case, a major selling point
    of OT fonts is that they're cross-platform compatible. It looks like this one
    is only partially cross-platform compatible.\r\n\r\nFinally, to those who take
    exception to the Trojan analogy, let me put it this way: if Arno were not a Trojan,
    Adobe would have said, upfront, when they released it, 'this font only works with
    apps x and y; it doesn't work with Quark, Microsoft Word, Microsoft Publisher',
    etc. etc. \r\n\r\nWhen did Adobe provide any such advisory? Over to Adobe."
  created: '2008-08-06 12:58:16'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "People talk about Quark's long-past rude customer support. What compares
    to\r\n\r\n\u2019We, the Adobe Type Group, definitely have better things to do
    with our time ... no reason for it not to work in QuarkXPress ... Your concerns
    about Arno Pro\u2019s kerning have no ground...stop wasting my time with nonsense....\u2019\r\n
    \r\nI gave CS3 Mac Directory magazine's annual award this year. On balance I thought
    it was earned, mainly for the small though brilliant improvements in Photoshop
    and for the purchase of Dreamweaver. I didn't think much of what InDesign and
    Illustrator had racked up since CS2. But had I known that Adobe was bundling CS3
    with core fonts that don't work with other apps, I would have placed the award
    elsewhere, explaining my reluctance. I only wish I'd been aware of this problem
    a few months ago.\r\n\r\nAnd frankly, Adobe's customer response in this forum
    is enough to ban it from ever getting an award from me until the company can prove
    to me that it is treating its customers better than this. I'm going to cross-post
    this in the 'Quark 8 doesn't suck' thread. "
  created: '2008-08-06 13:06:45'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "One more point:\r\n\r\nAdobe advertises OT as a _replacement technology_
    for MM ... not a good way to advertise it, but it's how Adobe has chosen to present
    OT. \r\n\r\nOne of the problems with MM fonts was that there were endless complaints.
    How many times did one hear, 'I will never output with Kepler again'; 'I will
    never output with Jenson again'; 'I will never output with Minion again'. One
    endlessly heard of print disasters.\r\n\r\nAdobe blamed it all on three things:
    out of date print drivers, out of date versions of ATM, out of date or otherwise
    non-standard PS rasterizers. \r\n\r\nLike John, in his defense of Adobe, I bought
    into all of this for years, until I realized that like an incurable alcoholic,
    Adobe was always blaming everybody but itself.\r\n\r\nWhat Adobe cannot afford
    to do now is to give OT the same kind of reputation that MM earned. \r\n\r\nA
    well-known type designer on this list who often teaches graphic design students
    told me that he always asks his students if they have ever heard of multiple masters.
    None have. Then he asks how many have heard of OpenType. Less than 10% have. OT
    mustn't go down the same path."
  created: '2008-08-06 14:20:04'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Nick,\r\nAny news on your font's kerning?\r\n\r\nYou wrote,\r\n<em>I just
    wanted to know why OT kerning doesn\u2019t show in Quark 7. Not necessarily Adobe
    fonts - any OT fonts.</em>\r\nIs it really happening with all OT fonts?"
  created: '2008-08-06 17:49:28'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "I guess the customer left. And who can blame him? \r\n\r\nHowever, for the
    record, further research has revealed that although Arno seems to be unable to
    work properly in Quark 7, it does work properly in Quark 8. However, if the file
    is a legacy file, it needs to be forced into Quark 8 native format. I'll post
    further details if anyone is interested. \r\n\r\nThat leaves all the significant
    apps of OpenType's co-developer, Microsoft. It would be useful if others could
    test other applications on both platforms with this troublesome font. \r\n\r\nBundling
    it with CS was not something I can approve of.\r\n\r\nIn the meantime, I'm constantly
    delighted at how lovely this site looks in Georgia -- a font designed to work
    well without any kerning at all. \r\n\r\nAnd a final (I hope) point. Fussy book
    designers often turn kerning off even in old Adobe Originals fonts. One reason
    is too many annoying kerns around punctuation which can cause run-on sentences
    and other aggravating problems.  Other fonts have this problem. For example, if
    you are publishing for the UK and using single quotation marks rather than double
    quotation marks, you'd need to turn off kerning in the lovely font Scala. \r\n\r\nSometimes
    less is more ! "
  created: '2008-08-06 21:47:51'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I'll just note that any kerning that works in TextEdit almost certainly works
    in other Apple apps such as Pages and Keynote.\r\n\r\n(The other ravings in this
    thread aren't worth anyone's time to comment on.)\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-08-07 02:55:22'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Thomas from Adobe:\r\n\r\n>(The other ravings in this thread aren\u2019t
    worth anyone\u2019s time to comment on.)<\r\n\r\nUnless you are a user of Microsoft
    Word or Microsoft Publisher or a thousand other applications.\r\n\r\nWhat a dreadful
    way to treat one's development partner -- and its apps.\r\n\r\nAnd it is typical
    of Thomas to say, 'almost certainly works'. That translates as 'too lazy to test;
    would rather blog.'\r\n\r\nWith tech support like this, who needs enemies? \r\n\r\nAltogether,
    we are not getting a good impression either of Adobe's testing or of its manners.\r\n\r\nWe're
    also not getting a good impression of Adobe as a team player with Microsoft in
    the development of OpenType. And I used to think that Microsoft had an arrogant
    corporate mindset. They don't, really. "
  created: '2008-08-07 09:51:06'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Adobe's Thomas Phinney carefully noted that Arno 'Pro'\r\n\r\n'almost certainly
    works in other Apple apps such as Pages and Keynote.'\r\n\r\nI misread Apple apps
    to mean Mac apps. I don't think he means 'Mac apps' and I think he knows a lot
    more than he's telling. For example, I can't even get Arno to show up in the font
    menu of Word:Mac. \r\n\r\nHow many copies of CS was Arno Pro bundled with? On
    how many <em>millions</em> of systems was this font automatically installed, without
    warning users that this font does not work with 99% of their apps, Windows or
    Apple?\r\n\r\nFolks, this has <em>never</em> been done before in the entire history
    of software distribution. Nobody has ever released a font on this vast scale that
    didn't work with 99% of existing software.\r\n\r\nThen, when one user -- out of
    a gazillion -- has the temerity to complain in a public forum, Adobe responds:\r\n\r\n<em>\u2019We,
    the Adobe Type Group, definitely have better things to do with our time ... stop
    wasting my time with nonsense.\u2019</em>\r\n\r\nCould this be Adobe's idea of
    PostScript evangelism? Customer support? What's happened to the people who were
    so good at getting Adobe's message across a decade ago, like David Lemon, Rick
    Wulff, Chris Holm, and a hundred gentle PR giants? "
  created: '2008-08-07 11:31:33'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Footnote: a specific, and very common, example of Adobe-style kerning problems
    from a Kathleen Tinkel article back in 1998:\r\n\r\n\"... if you have a sentence
    whose last word ends in y followed by one that begins with W, the word space is\r\nreduced
    to roughly 10 percent of its normal width.\"\r\n\r\n(because of too-aggressive
    kerning between y-period and period-W) \r\n\r\nKathleen also published about the
    long-standing problem where ATM Deluxe (Mac only) maliciously reported that 600-odd
    fonts in the Monotype Classic Library were damaged. Monotype went ballistic, noting
    that the fonts had been built with Adobe's own tools. Then Adobe said they didn't
    think Monotype had properly paid the licensing. \r\n\r\nSomehow this was all allowed
    to play out through five or six dot releases of ATM Deluxe, until it became a
    null issue with the adoption of OS X and the vanishing of ATM. \r\n\r\nThe kerfuffle
    with Arno reminds me of this ancient history."
  created: '2008-08-07 12:52:33'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: By the way, ATM also buried an enormous amount of TrueType (including all
    of GX) and any MM font generated by Fontographer. All this time Adobe was talking
    about how open they were in supporting independent MM development .... no secrets
    .... yeah
  created: '2008-08-07 12:56:23'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: ">That translates as \u2019too lazy to test; would rather blog.\u2019\r\n>I
    can\u2019t even get Arno to show up in the font menu of Word:Mac.\r\n\r\nAll 32
    Arno Pro fonts work for me on Word (MacBook Pro, MS Office 2004). However I checked
    a \"Ta\" pair and the kerning was indeed whacked.\r\n\r\nMiguel Sousa has already
    referred to this topic's previous coverage:\r\n[[http://typophile.com/node/34059|http://typophile.com/node/34059]]\r\n[[http://www.typophile.com/node/39130|http://www.typophile.com/node/39130]]\r\n\r\nIt's
    seemingly headed here:\r\n[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lRc5EbeDC6o|http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lRc5EbeDC6o]]"
  created: '2008-08-07 13:08:27'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">Miguel Sousa has already referred to this topic\u2019s previous coverage:\r\n\r\nStrange,
    then, that none of those prior threads mention all the other software, Mac and
    Windows, that Arno 'Pro' doesn't work with. \r\n\r\nHere we have a font that gets
    distributed free to x hundred million users, and only works with 1% or less of
    the software that is out there. All of this in the name of kerning, some of it
    demonstrably bad. What are the overwhelming technological and aesthetic reasons
    that this font needs to be so messy? \r\n\r\nAnd given that it is so messy, and
    doesn't work with 99% of software, why distribute it on such an unprecedented
    scale? Why not simply offer it to the specialists who might need it. Are there
    any? \r\n\r\nI'm failing to see the reason why any of this should be happening.
    \r\n\r\nJust tell me why it has to be like this? \r\n\r\nAnd who needs Adobe kerning
    anyway, with examples like Kathleen's and the A, left single quote, right quote,
    comma example that Charles pointed out in an earlier thread. \r\n\r\nAdobe's Sousa
    responds that they'll 'log' these problems. \r\n\r\nFolks, people have been complaining,
    vigorously, about these Adobe kerning problems for nearly 20 years. \r\n\r\nDo
    you really care if your problems are 'logged' or not? They're never, never, never,
    going to be fixed. After nearly two decades of customer complaints, I think we
    can safely make this statement.\r\n\r\nAdobe is always right; the customer is
    always wrong. When was the last time Adobe fixed a font? Offered a new version
    as a bug fix? "
  created: '2008-08-07 13:42:01'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "To illustrate that Adobe-style kerning still has not progressed after <em>twenty
    years of customer complaints</em>, here's Arno Pro Display in Quark 8:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/arno
    pro display kern clipping 2_4180.GIF]\r\n\r\nWhy is it you don't get problems
    like this in Carter & Cone fonts, or Font Bureau fonts? \r\n\r\nAnd not to add
    insult to injury, but the spacing doesn't look very good either."
  created: '2008-08-07 15:00:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Why is it you don\u2019t get problems like this in Carter & Cone fonts,
    or Font Bureau fonts?</em>\r\n\r\nIf this is a problem of commission, you get
    other related problems in their fonts (and mine), of omission.\r\nFor instance,
    if A_rightquote is not kerned tightly as per Arno, an all-cap setting with apostrophe
    is gappy.\r\nIn an all-cap setting, you're much more likely to have an apostrophe
    than a period--isn't that the logic of Robert Slimbach's kerning strategy?\r\nSimilarly,
    because he fits his letters closely, he doesn't like to see things suddenly open
    up when a couple of points are set side by side. Hence the vigorous kerning between
    quote marks and periods/commas.\r\nIn general, the Slimbach fit style produces
    very slick settings, but it does have the odd glitch (which will I assume soon
    be solved by triple character kerning, but only supported in InDesign :-)"
  created: '2008-08-07 20:48:58'
- author:
    name: plainclothes
    picture: 110490
  body: I haven't commented in a while, but Bill's ranting managed to bring me out.
    I have only this to say... QXP, Word, and Publisher are not the right apps for
    testing the quality of your fonts. if you are a typophile, chances are you prefer
    InDesign ... or perhaps Tex.
  created: '2008-08-07 20:58:11'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill, unwelcome results in kerning are obviously a different issue from lookup
    format support, so I'm not going to dilute this thread by getting on a tangent
    about different approaches to triplet spacing issues such as you illustrate.\r\n\r\nBut
    since, as you report, Quark 8 appears to be supporting the GPOS extension lookup
    type, I feel a certain vindication of my previous insistence that this is a layout
    engine implementation issue and not a font issue. Obviously someone at Quark thought
    so to. I worry that perhaps you still don't realise just what the extension lookup
    type is, and are misinterpreting the whole situation as a result. The extension
    lookup mechanism is not some complex new way of performing a glyph substitution
    or positioning operation: it's a 32bit offset locator. In other words, it is just
    typical GPOS or GSUB lookup data stored in a different location with a pointer.
    This is bread and butter to any programmer, and supporting it is pretty trivial.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/typography/otspec/gpos.htm#EP\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-07 22:52:57'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">[GPOS] is bread and butter to any programmer, and supporting it is pretty
    trivial.\r\n\r\nNot for Microsoft it isn't. Otherwise we'd have had it in Word
    and Publisher long ago.\r\n\r\nIt's been Microsoft's spec for 11 years. They've
    had enough time to implement it and they haven't, for what are doubtless good
    reasons to them. \r\n\r\nJohn, I appreciate your viewpoint -- you've contributed
    enormously to OpenType and you're an important evangelist for it. But I still
    fail to see any justification for what Adobe has done here, either technologically,
    or aesthetically. (And Adobe's response is most unsatisfactory. Was David Lemon
    ever so rude?)\r\n\r\nI can, however, see it as a marketing move towards effectively
    proprietary type formats. \r\n\r\nAdobe's canny blurb for Arno here\r\n\r\nhttp://www.adobe.com/type/browser/landing/arno/arno.html\r\n\r\nstates,\r\n\r\n<em>'In
    addition, all glyphs in an OpenType font can be accessed in Adobe InDesign\xAE
    software, whether or not they are covered in a layout feature. OpenType fonts,
    coupled with the advanced typographic control offered by a program such as InDesign,
    also let type-users take advantage of advanced justification, optical margin alignment,
    hanging punctuation, and optically sized masters ....'</em>\r\n\r\nThe implication
    is that <em>only</em> InDesign will work with this font ....\r\n\r\nAnd as you
    know, Adobe could perfectly well have implemented this font so that it <em>would</em>
    work perfectly with all extant software.\r\n\r\nSo again: why? \r\n\r\nLet me
    put it this way. If you were the program manager for a piece of software that
    was going to shipped onto several million systems, each containing a huge variety
    of software old and new, would you deliberately bundle a font that didn't work
    with most users' software? Why don't you ask someone like Lori Birtley at Microsoft
    if she'd let this happen? (Last I knew, she was program manager for Publisher;
    years ago she was program manager for PageMaker, and she certainly was one of
    those who started the K2 project that grew into InDesign.) I'd like to hear her
    thinking on this. "
  created: '2008-08-07 23:51:33'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Now please look at Adobe\u2019s thuggish response to David\u2019s complaint,
    above:\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\nNow who said that wasn't my mistake?  \u2014  \" For some
    reason that's  the first thing that came to my mind:\" instead of \"this is\"?
    .  Who said that all of my jokes are clear & fine?  And why do you think that
    other people see it as \"complaint\"?  \r\n\r\nThe bottom line is: Alright, that\u2019s
    enough of this!!! \r\n\r\nI emailed Miguel; he emailed me back. We are fine and
    happy.\r\n\r\nSo, please enough of this!!! "
  created: '2008-08-08 00:28:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill, I'm afraid you really don't understand the technical issues involved
    here.\r\n\r\n<em>Not for Microsoft it isn\u2019t. Otherwise we\u2019d have had
    it in Word and Publisher long ago.</em>\r\n\r\nEvery single Microsoft OTL layout
    engine supports extension format lookups. I have made plenty of fonts that use
    this format, and they all work fine in Word. The issue for Word with Arno Pro
    kerning is not the extension format lookup per se, which it would have no difficulty
    supporting for kerning in any Arabic, Hebrew, Devanagari, Thai or other complex
    script font. The issue for Word is twofold:\r\n\r\n1. Word does not employ any
    OpenType kerning at all for non-complex scripts. For TTF fonts, this means that
    there is no kerning at all for the Latin script unless that kerning is included
    as old-fashioned kern table pair kerning (either in addition to or instead of
    OTL GPOS kerning in the font). For CFF (PS OT) fonts, since these are by design
    not supposed to include kern tables, Word -- like various other Windows apps --
    must rely on on-the-fly conversion of GPOS to virtual kern table kerning. Since
    it is risky to present any application with fully expanded class kerning, since
    many have undocumented limits in kerning support, this conversion involves subsetting
    kerning for specific 8-bit codepages.\r\n\r\n2. Such kern data conversion is performed
    in Windows, as I understand it, by a quite old piece of code in a blackbox mechanism
    provided by Adobe (probably originally written for ATM). Because this code was
    presumably written before the OT extension lookup format was defined and added
    to the font format specification, it not surprisingly doesn't know how to handle
    Arno Pro. That, at least, is my analysis of the likely cause of the kerning failure
    in Word.\r\n\r\nBill, I frankly don't much care if you want to chastise Adobe
    for deciding to ship a font that uses a mechanism that is not universally supported
    in current applications. It seems churlish to me, because pretty much every font
    I ship only works fully in a small number of current apps, and I expect fonts
    and apps to develop in tandem, but I know that I'm unlikely to dissuade you, after
    all these years. But I do care that in your crusade you don't misrepresent or
    muddle technical facts, because people actually rely on technical information
    to make a living and form decisions about time and resources. If you want to attempt
    to deduce reasons -- however unlikely they may seem to me -- why Adobe might have
    decided to use a particular technology in a particular font, go ahead. My concern
    is with the accurate representation of that technology.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-08 03:38:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: .
  created: '2008-08-08 03:51:20'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">My concern is with the accurate representation of that technology.\r\n\r\nMicrosoft
    will be delighted to have this information so they can finally go and fix Word
    and Publisher. \r\n\r\nNo but seriously, John, the issue isn't technical. So you
    don't have to be condescending about the technical issues here, least of all to
    me who despite my amateur pose cut my teeth on 8080 assembler. \r\n\r\nThe issue
    isn't <em>how</em> to do it but why Microsoft isn't doing it. They obviously don't
    think it's important to do. Who are we, in the <em>font</em> industry -- the the
    least significant of the bottom feeders -- to argue with Microsoft's priorities?
    \r\n\r\nSo: why did Adobe implement kerning in an <em>exclusive</em> manner when
    it was perfectly possible to implement it in an <em>inclusive</em> manner? \r\n\r\n>pretty
    much every font I ship only works fully in a small number of current apps, and
    I expect fonts and apps to develop in tandem<\r\n\r\nThat's a luxury most of us
    cannot dream of. And I doubt you ship broken fonts to several million customers,
    free. If you did, you'd soon be out of a job. \r\n\r\nIn any case I am philosophically
    opposed to it. I expect everything on my computer to work and keep on working.
    I don't expect a font to break it. That just makes people queasy about fonts.
    And about OT in particular. \r\n\r\nOh - - it just hit me - - surely - - it couldn't
    have been - - you - - who talked Adobe into doing this thing? How daft! Gosh --
    did you actually do the work on the font? Well, I'm glad if you did, for the money,
    but it was a very silly thing to do just the same. Best to keep quiet about it,
    I should say. Nevertheless, bravo, if so!"
  created: '2008-08-08 09:41:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "So....   The answer to my original question is \"I don't know\".  ?\r\n\r\nNick
    Cooke"
  created: '2008-08-08 11:04:05'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Sorry Nick, we got a little carried away with philosophical concerns here.
    We do have the answers. The kerning definitely works in 8. I'm not sure about
    7 but I can't find any way of making it work in 7.\r\n\r\nHere's what Quark says
    assuming you are using 8:\r\n\r\n<em>We took a close look at the kerning differences
    we see in the screen\r\nshot of the differences between QXP 8 and Indesign. When
    we created a\r\nnew project in QXP 8 and ensured \"Use OpenType Kerning\" was
    ON, using\r\nthe same Arnold Pro Regular font at 48 pt., the kerning relationships
    in\r\nQuarkXPress 8 were exactly the same as in InDesign. However, when we\r\nturned
    OFF Use OpenType Kerning, we ended up with the same results as\r\nthe link shows.
    This tells us that QuarkXPress 8 is working as designed\r\nand is correctly reading
    the built-in kerning tables for the OpenType\r\nfont. \r\n\r\nThis leads to one
    of two possibilities:\r\n\r\nIf this behavior is occurring in a brand new project
    created from\r\nscratch, and Use OpenType Kerning is showing as ON in the QuarkXPress\r\nPreferences,
    then the XPress Preferences are damaged. Essentially what\r\noften happens with
    Preference-level damage is that a setting will show\r\nas ON when it is actually
    OFF. The remedy is to quit out of QuarkXPress\r\n8 and create a new folder in
    the QuarkXPress 8 folder, naming it\r\n\"Preferences\". Then create a new project
    and ensure Use OpenType Kerning\r\nis ON. Then see what happens with the Arnold
    Pro Regular font-It will\r\nlikely show the correct OpenType kerning. \r\n\r\nIf
    it is occurring in a legacy file, i.e., one that was created in\r\nversion 6.5
    or earlier, these versions did not support OpenType kerning,\r\nand, in order
    to preserve the text flow, QuarkXPress 8 will by default\r\nfor legacy files like
    this turn Use OpenType Kerning OFF for that file\r\nonly. If you want to force
    the file to flow using OpenType Kerning, go\r\nto File>Open. In the Open dialog
    highlight the file. Then hold down the\r\nControl and Option keys and click open.
    This will rewrite the file into\r\nQXP 8 text flow code (along with rewriting
    the entire file to QXP 8 file\r\nstructure), which should tell QXP to turn Use
    OpenType Kerning ON.</em>\r\n\r\nThis confirms my experience. Any new project
    in Quark 8 will work fine. If you're bringing an old Arno document over from 7,
    though, you will have to ctrl-opt-click Open. (Mac)\r\n\r\nI can't help noticing
    the difference between Quark's genial, informative tone and Adobe's \r\n\r\n<em>\u2019We,
    the Adobe Type Group, definitely have better things to do with our time ... no
    reason for it not to work in QuarkXPress ... Your concerns about Arno Pro\u2019s
    kerning have no ground...stop wasting my time with nonsense....\u2019</em>\r\n\r\nIn
    an earlier post here, Nick Shinn defends Adobe's kerning of A right quote comma,
    but here,\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/39130\r\n\r\nAdobe's Sousa writes,
    with what I can only take to be superbly Freudian cynicism,\r\n\r\n<em>Please
    do. I\u2019ll make sure these bugs get logged, and will certainly be fixed next
    time the fonts get revised. No need to post them here. You can send the material
    directly to me at msousa adobe.com\r\n\r\nWhat would be nice is if you could post
    a list of unusual kerning combinations, like the quote/quote examples you\u2019ve
    just provided. This type of thing should actually be posted on the Wiki. If you
    don\u2019t know how to do that, just start a new thread.</em>\r\n\r\nMark this
    - - Adobe promises these fonts will certainly be fixed the next time they get
    revised.\r\n\r\nLadies and Gentlemen, place your bets!\r\n\r\nWhile we're waiting,
    perhaps we, too, can spend the next 20 years posting a list of unusual kerning
    examples on the Wiki. If you don't know how, just start a new thread!\r\n\r\nFinally,
    Nick - - are you at the point with Quark 7 that you can't get <em>any</em> OT
    font to kern properly? If so, check, as described above, that OT Kern preferences
    are on; if fonts other than Arno still don't work, in new documents, then you
    may have to trash preferences, but for a definitive answer, it would be best to
    give Quark more information. Please let us know in detail, if you have the time,
    how you are getting on with this.\r\n\r\nJust in the past couple of days, a paradoxical
    situation has arisen for me. I generated a very simple OT font for a designer
    which includes extra f-ligatures, nothing more. I followed Fontlab's instructions
    to the letter. The ligatures work in Quark 8, but not in InDesign CS3!!!! So here
    we have an instance where Quark's handling of OT is better than Adobe's. \r\n\r\nI'm
    afraid that highlights the weakness of OpenType - - the standard is so broadly
    written (when I say broadly I mean badly but I am trying to be polite) that nobody
    can ever be sure which feature, implemented which way, will work in what program.
    \r\n\r\nThis after a decade of OT ? Akkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkk!\r\n\r\nMy sympathies
    are with the MS app developers on this . . . . OT is so leaky it's like a moving
    target. "
  created: '2008-08-08 11:50:26'
- author:
    name: Artur Schmal
    picture: 110750
  body: "Bill, I am sure you approached Quark with the same tone of voice that you
    approached Adobe with in this thread. I am also sure that you are quoting Quark
    as manipulative and selective as you are quoting Adobe in this thread. I am even
    more sure that you turned what could have been a very informative thread into
    a childish namecalling competition.\r\n\r\nThanks."
  created: '2008-08-08 13:15:11'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "I don't think you're right, Artur. Had we left it to Adobe, we'd just have
    Adobe's response, which is that there isn't and never has been a problem, either
    with its kerning system or with its OT implementations. And please note that Microsoft
    is not making incompatible fonts. This thread should never have existed, because
    the problem should never have arisen. A technical problem as anomalous as this
    does not arise for no reason at all. The method may be painful, but we have learned
    something about why it arose. My quote from Quark is verbatim. Mail me, and I'll
    mail you their note. Ten, fifteen years ago, you could go to Adobe with questions
    and get responses from high calibre people like David Lemon, Rick Wulff, Chris
    Holm, and many others. Where are they now?  \r\n\r\nIn the meantime, would you
    like to take on any of the <em>issues</em>? The responses in this thread have
    been <em>pathetic</em>. Adobe's in total denial, Microsoft's not interested, John's
    reflex-evangelizing any threat to OT because his livelihood depends on it. Badly
    as I may be doing it, I am the only person representing the voice of the <em>user</em>,
    other than the user who started the thread. Where do <em>you</em> stand? "
  created: '2008-08-08 13:52:34'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "<em>And please note that Microsoft is not making incompatible fonts.</em>\r\n\r\nOh,
    right, like those Vista C-fonts, please give me just a quick reminder how I can
    use their OT layout features in Word again.\r\n\r\nOr how to access the kern pairs
    from the second kern subtable in Windows."
  created: '2008-08-08 14:11:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "I didn't realise that I'd be opening a whole conspiracy theory can of worms
    when I posted this thread. I just wanted the solution to a problem.\r\n\r\nWell
    thanks for your help everybody ;^P. I've sorted it now and it all works. My fault
    I presume - I didn't change anything in QX7. I somehow made it work by messing
    about with FontLab.\r\n\r\nThis is a workhorse family I developed for wayfinding
    signage for the town of Morpeth in Northeast England. As you can see the kerning
    now works for the standard set and contextual alternates.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/QXkern_5351.jpg]\r\n\r\nNick
    Cooke\r\n\r\nPs Bill Troop, how do you ever get any work done? you seem to be
    writing lengthy essays all day long :^)"
  created: '2008-08-08 15:22:08'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Jens, mea culpa - - I forgot about the C-fonts. Once through with them was
    enough for me -- and poor John! (And give him credit for this: he does fix his
    fonts when they need it.)\r\n\r\nNick -- this is hilarious! So glad you got everything
    solved. You're right I <em>am</em> posting too much. But I always do at least
    one glyph between posts. Lots of interesting things in your font! Dot of i seems
    high but I expect you have reasons for that, and I love what you're doing with
    the t and its variations. "
  created: '2008-08-08 15:55:18'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "I wrote: <em>Oh, right, like those Vista C-fonts, please give me just a quick
    reminder how I can use their OT layout features in Word again.\r\n\r\nOr how to
    access the kern pairs from the second kern subtable in Windows.</em>\r\n\r\nJust
    to clarify: I don't consider these fonts broken, nor Arno Pro, just because there
    are some systems or applications that can't make full use of them."
  created: '2008-08-08 16:31:00'
- author:
    name: Artur Schmal
    picture: 110750
  body: "<cite>Where do <i>you</i> stand?</cite>\r\n\r\nBill, your last question seems
    illustrative for your approach to this; If you're not with us, you're against
    us...\r\n\r\nThe fact that a specific version of Quark doesn't support the kerning
    in Arno Pro doesn't tell me anything.\r\nMy guess is that we could have had a
    lot more respons from the guys who can shed some light this on if you hadn't been
    shouting form the tallest tree from the beginning, constantely manipulating the
    discussion by misquoting Miguel.\r\n\r\nPlease do continue asking questions, critizing
    decisions, but do it in a way that doesn't create this current ambiance, which
    in my opinion is totally out of place in a community like this.\r\n\r\nArtur\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-08 17:56:29'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">please give me just a quick reminder how I can use their OT layout features
    in Word again.\r\n\r\nJens, I brought up the issue of MS apps and OTL (lack of)
    on the OT list seven years ago! (October 2001) Microsoft's wonderful Greg Hitchcock
    then promised he would escalate it to the highest levels. One problem was that
    the app developers didn't want to support OTL because of perceived performance
    hits, which Greg took issue with. Whatever the case, seven long years later, we
    still don't have much OTL typography support in MS apps. This just shows that
    it takes a long, long, long time for people to do anything about fonts when it
    doesn't seem important to the app people. Actually, it doesn't. OT is very, very
    unsexy and most app developers are not interested in it. And most customers aren't
    interested in it. People on Typophile are interested in it. So what? \r\n\r\nIsn't
    it funny that this thread would also never have occurred had Nick not chosen to
    use Arno as his example, since that seems to be the only Adobe font that doesn't
    work in Quark 7. In the meantime, I need to solve why my OT font for Nicola works
    in Quark 8 but not in InDesign CS3. This is still a format for geeks, not letter
    designers. I wish it weren't so, but at the rate we're going, it's obviously going
    to be a long, long time before things get straightened out. \r\n\r\nBy the way,
    Adobe's OT support has always been partial, and there were one or two features
    that Quark implemented in 6 of 7 that Adobe hadn't yet done -- I've forgotten
    which. There's something the matter here. App developers are being forced to do
    way too much work, and take too many hits, whatever John or anyone else says to
    the contrary. The co-developers of the format -- Adobe and Microsoft -- are both
    app makers and have substantial difficulty in supporting the format, 11, 12 years
    after it was specified. You can't get away from that. AND USERS ARE CONFUSED.\r\n\r\nArtur,
    you may dislike my tone, but I deal in <em>facts</em> not tone. You say I misquoted
    Miguel. When I say someone has misquoted someone, I illustrate with the quote
    and with the misquote. I warmly recommend this method to you. It is infallible."
  created: '2008-08-08 19:31:28'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "How pleased I am that someone told me about this thread! (I'm sure everyone
    else will be glad to see me reviving it.)\r\n\r\nBill, I want to call attention
    to this statement you made:\r\n\r\n<cite>Folks, people have been complaining,
    vigorously, about these Adobe kerning problems for nearly 20 years.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>Do
    you really care if your problems are \u2019logged\u2019 or not? They\u2019re never,
    never, never, going to be fixed. After nearly two decades of customer complaints,
    I think we can safely make this statement.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>... When was the
    last time Adobe fixed a font?</cite>\r\n\r\nI want to note that quite a lot of
    the kern pairs that you are complaining about (cited by Kathleen Tinkel ten years
    ago) were, in fact, fixed by me many years ago during the conversion to OpenType.
    I can't say I got all of them, but I was aware that there were many such kerns
    in various Adobe Originals, and I tried to remove those when they crossed my path.
    Furthermore, some kerning problems (among many, many other bugs) were recently
    fixed in the revision of the Adobe Type Library. Some of these had been logged
    from customer bug reports (a.k.a. complaints), and some were flagged internally.
    In any case, all these logged kerning bugs were considered during the revision
    and many were corrected. Unfortunately many of the more subjective, less-offensive
    kerns were left alone, because with any change that affects text flow, we are
    concerned about the impact on legacy documents. You are welcome to state your
    own preference that all kerns which you consider wrong be fixed immediately, but
    there are always matters of personal taste and concerns about backwards compatibility
    which fall into the mix.\r\n\r\nWhich leads me to the next hilarious quote:\r\n\r\n<cite>I
    deal in facts not tone.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou've asserted more than once that we are
    not interested in customers or bugs. I think that if you asked around you would
    find many people who have had their Adobe font complaints acknowledged with great
    interest and appreciation. I can tell you that we in Adobe Type are keenly interested
    in knowing about, evaluating, and fixing bugs -- but our ability to do so rapidly
    and completely is always limited by time, resources, and other practical matters.
    I think for the font profession and for the software industry in general, this
    is not unusual."
  created: '2008-08-15 01:29:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Erm... sorry to hijack my own thread, but I regenerated the fonts over and
    over because I was still having the same problem. I tried selecting the type and
    changing to a number of completely different random fonts, then trying my new
    fonts - still the same problem. Then it occurred to me to try a new document to
    test the fonts. Bingo! they all worked perfectly.\r\n\r\n\r\nNick Cooke"
  created: '2008-08-15 10:16:25'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Nick --\r\n\r\nAt the risk of re-igniting the fires, let me ask: Did you
    try Arno Pro in the new document also, and did it work then?\r\n\r\n-- K."
  created: '2008-08-15 12:41:10'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Moving on from the specific kerning and application issues...\r\n\r\nThe
    problem with fixes or upgrades to fonts is how to get them to the licensed users
    of previous versions. This isn't a problem only for fonts, but it is one which
    system and application developers have largely solved, using 'push' mechanisms
    to notify users via their Internet connection of updates, often with the option
    to download and install the updates. I have not seen such mechanisms used for
    font updates, and I suspect some important pieces of such a mechanism for fonts
    are currently missing. An OS or application can carry its own code for connecting
    to a server, checking for updates and alerting the user. For fonts, this would
    presumably need to be some kind of separate applet (or applets, presuming that
    font vendors would have their own: an Adobe Font Updater, a Monotype Font Updater,
    etc.). It gets messy in a number of different ways, especially for fonts that
    are available through cross-licensing from multiple vendors."
  created: '2008-08-16 01:04:07'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "By-the-way who or how do I contact adobe regarding updates to their fonts.
    \r\n\r\nThe Poetica I have has some funky kerning.\r\n\r\nVersion 1.006;PS 001.003;Core
    1.0.38;makeotf.lib1.6.5960\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\n\r\nMikey :-)"
  created: '2008-08-16 01:15:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Kent, - yes I did, no it didn't.\r\n\r\nMy fonts worked though, that was
    my main concern.\r\n\r\n\r\nNick Cooke"
  created: '2008-08-16 11:50:47'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Interesting. Thanks for the report, Nick. -- K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-16 14:48:53'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "<em>The problem with fixes or upgrades to fonts is how to get them to the
    licensed users of previous versions.</em>\r\n\r\nI'd have said the problem was
    how to get foundries to <em>offer</em> fixes or upgrades in the first place. \r\n\r\nJohn,
    software manufacturers usually deliver upgrades and bux fixes by a dedicated webpage.\r\n\r\nWhen
    was the last time you saw Adobe offering a fix or upgrade for a font? \r\n\r\nYet
    Chris Slye writes, \r\n\r\n<em>I can tell you that we in Adobe Type are keenly
    interested in knowing about, evaluating, and fixing bugs \u2014 but our ability
    to do so rapidly and completely is always limited by time, resources, and other
    practical matters. I think for the font profession and for the software industry
    in general, this is not unusual.</em>\r\n\r\nChris, can you point me to a single
    web page since the invention of the internet where Adobe offered a bug fix for
    a font? \r\n\r\nCan you tell me of a single instance in its entire corporate history
    where Adobe ever sent out bug fixes to registered customers of a font? (Email
    costs nothing. What about before email? I can still remember Quark sending 3.3
    or something like that to all registered users -- unsolicited -- via DHL. I don't
    remember Adobe ever doing that for any of its products, ever.)\r\n\r\nAdobe also
    says,\r\n\r\n<em>Furthermore, some kerning problems (among many, many other bugs)
    were recently fixed in the revision of the Adobe Type Library.</em>\r\n\r\nWell,
    Chris and Adobe,\r\n\r\nwas a single customer offered a free upgrade for the bugs
    you belatedly acknowledge? (I use the word belatedly advisedly. This is the first
    time in 20 years I have heard Adobe acknowledge a font bug.) If so I'd like to
    interview that customer.\r\n\r\n<em>our ability to do so rapidly and completely
    is always limited by time, resources, and other practical matters</em>\r\n\r\nFair
    enough. But twenty years?"
  created: '2008-08-16 16:23:26'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Re the A-quoteright-period problem in Arno, is this something new? I don't
    see it in Minion MM, for example.\r\n\r\nIt almost seems that Adobe is occasionally
    (and without ever informing customers) 'fixing' kerning bugs only to add new ones.
    \r\n\r\nIn Arno we have the case of a font with so many kerns that a special,
    unsupported kerning technology has to be used which is not supported by the vast
    majority of programs. \r\n\r\nWhy not simply use fewer kerns? \r\n\r\nWhy build
    fonts that are not supported by most software? \r\n\r\nYou gotta wonder.\r\n\r\nWhat
    I do know is that I have seen books from major publishers that show lavish and
    careful use of Minion and Minion expert, but where kerning is turned off because
    Adobe kerning causes more problems than it solves. This from designers who are
    going through the pain of using all f-ligs, small caps, osf, etc. where appropriate,
    in 700-page books. \r\n\r\nAnyway, that's the thing. Designers are saying that
    Adobe kerning causes more problems than it solves. Maybe it's time to stop the
    gimmicks? "
  created: '2008-08-16 16:51:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Designers are saying that Adobe kerning causes more problems than it
    solves.</em>\r\n\r\nI am somewhat conflicted about how many kerns to put in a
    font, and according to the typeface, have followed different kerning schema. These
    days, I'm reducing the amount of kerning, both for aesthetic and practical (huge
    glyph sets in OpenType fonts) reasons.\r\nI don't think there's a simple answer.\r\nThe
    fact that some typographers turn off kerning is not necessarily an argument against
    it.\r\nAs far as Robert Slimbach's types go, I used Myriad Condensed a lot when
    I was doing editorial and brochure design, and I found the tight fit was brilliant.\r\nHowever,
    I can see where those typographers who turn off kerning are coming from, in my
    own response to new versions of types such as Univers, which have the copious
    kerning their metal predecessors lacked. To me, Univers doesn't look like Univers
    any more, and I think it may be the metrics. In particular, kerning after the
    \"r\" does seem to effect the tonality. \r\n"
  created: '2008-08-16 19:26:19'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Nick, that's a subtle point since in Lino Univers New there are only three
    lowercase kerns after r, each of -12: s, q, o. The kerns in Adobe Univers are
    quite different. I know some think Bitstream's version is the best. One thing
    I'm reasonably sure of is that most metal versions would probably appear quite
    a bit looser at 8 or 9 points than any of the comparable photo/digital versions.
    I don't know the font well enough to comment further.\r\n\r\nI would like to make
    the point that extensive kerning does not necessarily dictate tight fit. Kerning
    can be strong or weak; can often, with advantage, be positive, not negative, depending
    on the scenario. It would be interesting to look at the Berthold Univers, which
    is probably optimized for a smaller size than the others."
  created: '2008-08-16 23:50:29'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'Let''s move on to a more interesting question: who on earth thought up Adobe''s
    daffy kerning system to start with? We know that Sumner Stone was responsible
    for the early triumphs of the type group, including the Originals program. Yet
    looking through Cycles (which, along with Miller, I would exchange for the entire
    Adobe type library) I don''t see any of these crackpot kerns that have caused
    so much trouble. For me, a Matthew Carter font is like a master class in type.
    Everything, not excluding the interesting kerning system, is a lesson that is
    just within my reach to grasp. But when I look at Cycles, I wonder if I will ever
    know what it''s all about . . . . just look at the k and ask why he does what
    he does - - so eccentric, so willful, and yet it all makes sense. Sorry, I can''t
    snip the k until I restart, and I can''t restart until I''ve moved some files
    from my dying Vista drive to my Mac . . . . can someone else? '
  created: '2008-08-17 00:21:59'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "Bill, I can't recall that Adobe has ever replaced a customer's font for free
    due to a bug. I'm not sure it's never happened, but I don't know of any such case
    off the top of my head.\r\n\r\n<cite>This is the first time in 20 years I have
    heard Adobe acknowledge a font bug.</cite>\r\n\r\nThomas talked about the library
    revision and its bug fixes at TypoTechnica in April 2007, and mentioned this talk
    on his blog the following month, so the bug fixes are not really the revelation
    you perceive them to be. I'm sure the revision has been mentioned elsewhere. (I
    just gave a presentation on it at TypeCon.)\r\n\r\nI think you would agree that
    it's better to fix bugs than to leave them unfixed forever. Our first priority
    is to identify font bugs and log them, and then fix and release them. Getting
    them to customers is a distinct step. Obviously the latest fonts are available
    now to customers who want to buy them.\r\n\r\nRegarding font \"updates\", this
    is something we're hoping to offer soon. The fonts available for upgrading will
    likely be quite limited in the beginning due to the complexities of font licensing
    and so on. My point here is that, like everyone else, we are quite interested
    in offering this to customers and we're working on it. It is not a trivial undertaking.\r\n\r\nAs
    I mentioned in my TypeCon talk, fonts are rapidly becoming bigger and more complex,
    such that they are practically like \"little applications\". We expect to continue
    to find, log, and fix bugs, like any application developer would."
  created: '2008-08-17 00:53:21'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">Obviously the latest fonts are available now to customers who want to buy
    them.\r\n\r\nChristopher, people who buy fonts at all spend vastly more on fonts
    than they do on apps. I'm sure it's not uncommon for designers to spend ten or
    twenty or forty times as much on fonts as on all their other software and perhaps
    even hardware put together. And, as we're always telling people, fonts do take
    an enormous amount of work. \r\n\r\nBut fonts are priced accordingly. For $200,
    or $600 for a larger family, you are getting a product that has had considerably
    less man hours put into it, probably, than the average application that costs
    as much.\r\n\r\nWhat are they getting for that? Is all of Photoshop, or Microsoft
    Office, worth four smallish font families? What's the difference in man hours
    spent on a few fonts versus MS Office? And what are you getting when you re-buy
    OT STD fonts? Is it really worth the money?\r\n\r\n<em>fonts are rapidly becoming
    ... like \u201Clittle applications\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nWhen they do, and once they
    have some kind of intelligent interface with the user, maybe users will become
    more interested in fonts. Maybe that will happen in ten, twenty, forty years.\r\n\r\nBut
    -- and I don't intend to pursue this tired point much further -- I know of only
    one way to engage a user interactively and intelligently with fonts, and that's
    with LightningDraw style sliders -- right up front, always available -- for varying
    the appearance of a font. And that means MM or Variations. Until you get the user
    at that point of simple, fun, engagement, which no application other than LightningDraw
    ever did, the font is merely a more or less tiresome utility. \r\n\r\nThe fact
    that I am one of the few voices in the wilderness willing to criticize Adobe type
    is an illustration just how unimportant type is in the rest of the world. Who,
    besides me, ranted for ten years that the opticals in Adobe MMs were badly designed
    and pleased no-one? Finally, in the OT opticals, we got a bit of grudging redesign.
    But that came too late to save MMs. Were type really important to users, there
    would be hundreds of thousands of complaints, not dozens. Hundreds of thousands
    of complaints: that's, paradoxically, success!\r\n\r\nThe goal we ought to have
    is to get fonts to be a product that everybody cares about, not just a few. That
    means treating them like a competitive software product and productizing them
    accordingly.\r\n\r\nOh I give up! How many times can one say the same thing?"
  created: '2008-08-17 13:23:32'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Christopher wrote: <cite>I can\u2019t recall that Adobe has ever replaced
    a customer\u2019s font for free due to a bug. I\u2019m not sure it\u2019s never
    happened, but I don\u2019t know of any such case off the top of my head.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt
    has happened occasionally. There were a couple of cases in the original library
    conversion to OpenType where we had some issues with usWeightClass settings, which
    caused significant problems in some Windows applications. I led the push to get
    that out proactively, and what happened was that every customer who had purchased
    any of those fonts got emailed and offered the fixed fonts for free. Luckily,
    it wasn't a whole lot of people.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-08-18 00:06:31'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Well, Thomas and Chris, who earlier wrote\r\n\r\n<em>Thomas talked about
    the library revision and its bug fixes at TypoTechnica in April 2007</em>\r\n\r\nthese
    could be firsts, and mark an extraordinary shift in the wind. I don't want to
    take away from that.\r\n\r\nAnd let's be fair to the type team: making Adobe's
    hinting tools available was a very generous piece of philanthropy that even I
    can't find any conspiratorial loopholes in. (Well, it helps to ensure the continued
    vitality of PostScript.) Nor is it a one-off, but part of a concerted program
    of trying to provide as much gratis (and great) type technology as possible. Another
    public gift of similar magnitude was recently planned, only to be frustrated by
    a paranoid third party. \r\n\r\nWell, well, looking ahead to the future, and to
    more successful productization of type, all I can say is what I've said before:
    set up an old Mac with System 7.6-8.1 with the GX extension. Run LightningDrawGX.
    See how easy, and how much fun, type can be. \r\n\r\nThink I'm crazy? The Illustrator
    team didn't. LightningDrawGX fueled many of the best new features in Illustrator
    7, 8 and 9. That's an impressive legacy for a program that was only developed
    for 18 months.\r\n\r\nI'm not saying it's the only way. I'm just saying it's the
    only way I've seen to date."
  created: '2008-08-18 00:28:22'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Actually, I've frequently discussed bugs in public. Mostly in the Adobe user
    forums. Somebody speaks up about something they see as a problem, and I comment.
    That's how we improved our polytonic Greek support last year and got a new beta
    tester, for example.\r\n\r\nAlso, many years ago we set things up so that the
    online bug forms sent in got seen and reviewed by multiple folks, including me.
    Almost all of them that aren't empty or sent to the wrong team due to user mistake
    get a personal response, as well, usually from me or Ernie. Again, a minority
    turn out to be actual bugs, but sometimes they are.\r\n\r\nFar and away the most
    frequent issue we see and hear about is people thinking there's something wrong
    with the fonts because in \"normal\" Windows apps not all their fonts show up,
    due to style linking. That resulted in adding info about style linking to our
    OpenType User Guide, and to our OpenType readme file, plus revising an existing
    Adobe KnoledgeBase article. Additionally, we're working on font-specific readmes
    that will contain family-specific info. The old PDF readmes we had for our Pro
    fonts also had this info. Plus I've blogged about style linking. Maybe we should
    also have an article on the main Adobe.com web site... the main problem here is
    that people just don't read, but we try.\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-18 22:21:20'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "<em>the main problem here is that people just don\u2019t read, but we try.</em>\r\n\r\nThey
    don't read, and never will -- that's what we've all been trying to achieve through
    computer interface design. But there is a solution that will have to come sooner
    or later, and it should be being architected now: teach fonts how to talk.\r\n\r\nFonts
    must, in the future, be able to interface with users, if the font industry wants
    any large success. So there has to be an executable component. What everybody
    asks is, how on earth does the user interface with that component?\r\n\r\nTwo
    ways:\r\n\r\n1. Every font name you see in the OS has a down arrow to its right
    which presents a menu.\r\n\r\n2. Right clicking on the font name presents a menu
    item.\r\n\r\nOr, most simply, clicking on a font name, anytime, presents a menu,
    and doesn't act, merely, as a mechanism for selecting that font.\r\n\r\nOK. What's
    the font going to say to you? \r\n\r\nWell, at the simplest level, the font could
    say hello, I'm Gabbo. I'm a standard OT font and I speak Western European. GPS
    tells me you're in Roumania. Nice place. Would you like me to tell you what I
    know about the T-cedilla? OK, and by the way, click here, and for just 1 euro,
    I'll install the Roumanian component of this font. Hey, you could have Polish
    and Hungarian for just a couple more euros. \r\n\r\nCome to think of it, that's
    not a bad future model for modular, extensible, software. To participate, you
    have to set up e.g. a Paypal account. All software comes with modules, in continuous
    development, that you can add on. <em>A single button press</em> adds the module
    and debits your account. \r\n\r\nThis could work for all software, not just fonts.
    Because people love to shop, especially, and repetitively, for small amounts (hence
    the phenomenal success of iTunes), it's just about the only constructive, positive,
    attractive way to counter the idea, hard-wired into all persons under the age
    of 30, that software is free.\r\n\r\nBut it has to be made easy! Easier, even,
    then going to the iTunes store. Just that single button press which gives you
    a simple choice:\r\n\r\n<em>Click me, and I'm yours, for something you can easily
    afford.</em>"
  created: '2008-08-19 11:10:42'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Clarification: when I propose this modular model, it should be clear that
    the modularity will probably be more virtual than real. That is to say, if the
    customer click-buys the Roumanian component of Gabbo, what the OS will install
    is a completely new binary file, not Gabbo WE binary + Gabbo Roumanian binary
    with the expectation they would somehow work together sans bugs. Similarly, if
    a customer for 'Basic Word Processor' wants to add some worthwhile feature like
    multi-level footnoting, I would assume that an entirely new build of 'Basic Word
    Processor' would be sent to that user. Needless to say, we want to see these virtual
    modules automatically downloaded and installed. The customer should not have to
    do anything other than click to buy. \r\n\r\nIn an era when even clicking on a
    webpage to go shopping takes up more time than we are willing to give, the attraction
    of an ultra-simple affordable one-click purchase strategy may prove unexpectedly
    effective."
  created: '2008-08-21 21:05:41'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Bill, \r\n\r\nyou're wildly changing subjects as this suits you. This won't
    help. \r\n\r\n1. Adobe last fixed pretty much _all_ of their OpenType fonts in
    2005 or 2006 \u2014 introducing many fixes to problems that have been reported
    since the initial release of some of their OpenType fonts in 1999 or 2000. They
    fixed many of the problems I reported, including some crucial glyph design problems.
    \r\n\r\n2. Once a font is released, many vendors consider it problematic to change
    the font's metrics (and kerning) because this would cause document reflow depending
    on which version of the font the user uses. For this reason, for example, after
    Verdana was mistakenly released with no kerning in the Italic, Bold and Bold Italic
    styles (kerning was only in the Regular style), it was never fixed. \r\n\r\n3.
    My own opinion is that kerning is one of the most ill-specified elements of OpenType,
    mostly because it exists in two places: the \"kern\" table and the \"GPOS\" table.
    There are fonts out there that have a \"GPOS\" table with no \"kern\" feature
    while they have kerning in the old \"kern\" table (Times New Roman, Windows),
    there are such that have a \"kern\" feature in the \"GPOS\" table but not \"kern\"
    table (Calibri, Minion Pro), there are fonts that have kerning both in the \"kern\"
    feature of the \"GPOS\" table and in the \"kern\" table. And, the behavior for
    kerning is defined differently for .ttf and .otf. And, there are numerous ways
    to express the same kerning information in a GPOS table (using multiple lookups,
    multiple subtables, classes or pairs, extension lookup types etc.). I think the
    \"founding fathers\" of OpenType screwed up here. Well, the \"founding fathers\"
    of TrueType and Type 1 screwed up elsewhere, that's life. \r\n\r\nThis is all
    quite complicated for the implementers of OpenType Layout engines. I personally
    know three major OpenType Layout engines in which the developers tried to implement
    the behaviors exactly as specified in the spec, but made mistakes because they
    either did not implement the unspecified \"common knowledge\" that is shared between
    Adobe and Microsoft, and is only sometimes described unofficially on some lists.
    \r\n\r\nBut the problem as I see it is not that Adobe or Microsoft are trying
    to sabotage their competition. After all, if it were so, at least OpenType fonts
    made by Adobe or by Microsoft would work equally well in Adobe and Microsoft applications
    \u2014 but that is not true. The German smallcap \xDF specified in Microsoft OpenType
    fonts (Calibri etc.) does not work in Adobe applications, and kerning in those
    fonts does not in Word, and kerning specified in Adobe OpenType fonts such as
    Arno Pro does not work properly in Microsoft applications. \r\n\r\nBut this is
    not due to ill-made fonts. Most OpenType fonts are made with FontLab Studio plus
    Adobe FDK plus Microsoft VOLT, and there are THREE people involved in developing
    the key elements of those applications altogether, so it's easy to make sure crucial
    bugs get identified and fixed. \r\n\r\nBut implementing the layout engines \u2014
    it's not trivial. Not only you need to follow the published specs and the unpublished
    notes, you need to cooperate with UI designers and convince managers and marketing
    people that certain aspects of text layout are important, so you will be given
    a chance to implement it at all. Plus, text layout code has been sitting in operating
    systems and applications for years, and it's not an easy decision to just \"revamp
    it all\". \r\n\r\nThe one instance I'm actually really angry about is that Microsoft
    blew the chance to add some proper OpenType Layout features for non-complex scripts
    when they were working on Office 2007. They changed the file format, for the first
    time since 1997, so they could have used this chance to look away on the reflow
    issue. They changed the UI, quite drastically, so they could have used this chance
    to do away with some ancient font-related options, ancient four-styles-linking,
    the necessity to explicitly activate kerning and other absurdities of Word, and
    could have given Word a text engine worthy of the 21st century, with an UI to
    activate the most important OpenType Layout feature. \r\n\r\nAnd they ended up
    shipping an app in which for the new default fonts they bundled (Calibri, Constantia,
    Cambria etc.) there is no way _at all_ to get kerning working, not even if you
    turn it off, which is actually a step back compared to what was the case with
    Word 95, Times New Roman and Arial. \r\n\r\nI do understand things like release
    schedules, manpower, deadlines etc. \u2014\_and yet still, I am angry about that
    one. \r\n\r\nBut this issue aside, I think both Microsoft and Adobe have done
    wonderful job in the last ten years when it comes to original type design, multilingual
    support, typographic quality, font technology. Hell, imagine that 6-7 years ago,
    one still had to explain to people that they have to use two different fonts if
    they wanted to typeset Italian and Hungarian. \r\n\r\nYes, there are flaws, and
    the industry makes mistakes all the time. Nobody's perfect. I have learned that
    in the last ten years that are passing since my first ATypI conference. And I
    have learned to accept that. I do agree with you, Bill, however, that people should
    acknowledge the actual problems and shortcomings, and \"cut the crap\". \r\n\r\nWhen
    Maxim Zhukov was teaching a Cyrillic type design weekend in New York last year,
    he quoted his former boss at the United Nations who would occasionally ask him
    the question: \"Maxim, is this a screw-up or is this a position?\" I very much
    wish that people would sincerely try to answer this question when it comes to
    discussion like this. \r\n\r\nHowever, save your ammunition for problems of real
    magnitude, Bill. And don't shoot at people who are actually on the same team that
    you are, even if you don't really know it. \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-23 17:24:55'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Adam, this is all brilliantly expressed and anyone who reads it will be grateful
    for the clear exposition of your viewpoint. I had hijacked the thread for what
    I thought were some really good new ideas because I thought it was dead, and I
    am glad you have revived the original topic. But . . . when you write,\r\n\r\n<em>I
    personally know three major OpenType Layout engines in which the developers tried
    to implement the behaviors exactly as specified in the spec, but made mistakes
    because they either did not implement the unspecified \u201Ccommon knowledge\u201D
    that is shared between Adobe and Microsoft, and is only sometimes described unofficially
    on some lists.</em>\r\n\r\nYou are saying OT is a broken product that nobody can
    fix.\r\n\r\nNow look at it from my point of view: I saw it all working on the
    Mac in 1995 in 4MB of memory space. Code was available for both Apple and Windows.
    Yet nobody wanted it! Neither Microsoft nor Apple. And certainly not customers.
    Now 13 years later you're telling me to be patient.\r\n\r\nI say maybe it's time
    to start fresh? \r\n\r\nYears ago the late Carla Ow-Chu, when she was still at
    Apple, said, re OT, 'they can't do it without us.'\r\n\r\nI said, come on, it'll
    take them a year or two at most to iron out all the quirks. \r\n\r\nOh no, said.
    And she was right.\r\n\r\nAnd Adam, I don't think these people are really on my
    side. I'm on the side of products that <em>work</em>. \r\n\r\nOr let me put it
    another way: here's a situation where a technology vastly affects an enormous
    amount of application and typeface developers. The technology is spec'd by Adobe
    and Microsoft. There are two principal problems. One you have identified: they
    don't share vital information with other app and typeface developers. Two, you
    were too diplomatic to identify, they don't get on too well with one another.\r\n\r\n<em>These</em>
    two problems are capable of solution. But when? Why not start today? \r\n\r\nOne
    thing is clear: no ordinary pressure will work. In eleven years, no ordinary pressure
    has worked. Only leadership at the top -- and maybe including Apple this time
    -- can work. Or passive resistance from users. Or else users will respond with
    sheer indifference."
  created: '2008-08-23 19:04:26'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: "I just read this entire thread and was amazed at the depth and quality of
    information posted in it. It's all quite valuable in terms of education and keeping
    up on the never-ending development/improvement of typography across the aisles,
    so to speak.\r\n\r\nSadly, as I left the thread and tried to review in my mind
    what I'd learned, I realized I couldn't steer my mind away from the same unfortunate
    comment:\r\n\r\n\"So please, next time do your homework first and stop wasting
    my time with nonsense.\"\r\n\r\nFirst and foremost, what might be a \"waste of
    time\" to some might be interesting, educational commentary to others regardless
    of its ultimate veracity. I failed to notice anyone being dragged here by the
    ear and forced to look at or read anything.\r\n\r\nSecond, as it turns out the
    so-called \"nonsense\" was at least substantial enough to subsequently warrant
    lengthy discussion ... which must make all of that \"nonsense\" too, I suppose.\r\n\r\nAnd
    finally, comments like this seem to echo louder - and for much longer - than others.
    What's that old axiom - you could have a baseball game in the north part of town,
    a football game in the west, a basketball game in the east and a fight on the
    southside and most people will go see the fight?\r\n\r\nThis sort of disenchanting
    dialogue was in my mind poisonous to what otherwise was healthy, informative debate.
    I'm sorry to see that."
  created: '2008-11-16 15:35:18'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Hello Christopher,\r\n\r\nsome of the people involved in this discussion
    -- in order of appearance: Miguel Sousa, John Hudson, Thomas Phinney, Christopher
    Slye, Adam Twardoch -- better than most others know what they are talking about.
    They have produced the technically most advanced fonts available.\r\nThe problem
    is that Bill ascribed intentions to some of them that make for a grand story but
    are not backed up by facts. (Which Miguel addressed in straightforward way ...
    Also note that Bill's last interpretation of Adam's post was kindly ignored.)
    Indeed, interesting things were said in the course of the discussion, like in
    later posts by John Hudson, Christopher Slye and Adam Twardoch, yet the length
    of it was not caused by the matter being so substantial but by Bill's insistence
    that Adobe does suspicious things. Which simply is not the case:\r\n\r\nThe trivial
    reality is that OSes' and applications' OpenType support is still far from sufficient
    but improving. (Way too slow, if you ask me.) This forces type designers and/or
    font developers to make tough decisions: Do I add this or that advanced feature,
    at the risk that some applications won't support it?* Or do I create less than
    perfect fonts, so they at least behave the same even in less advanced apps?\r\n*
    Including MS apps which makes it an even tougher decision.\r\n\r\nAmazingly, this
    thread is highly informative <em>despite of</em> Bill's interpretations. And XPress
    8 has made it obsolete anyway&nbsp;...&nbsp;&nbsp;;-)\r\n\r\nBest wishes,\r\nKarsten\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-16 20:20:27'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'Thank you for your thoughtful comments, Karsten. You have taken a complex
    thread, which presented an enormous amount of conflicting information, and reduced
    it all to simple terms without missing out on anything essential. This represents
    superb analytical thinking. '
  created: '2008-11-19 21:38:50'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "PS: a few conflicting quotes:\r\n\r\nJHudson here: In other words, it is
    just typical GPOS or GSUB lookup data stored in a different location with a pointer.
    This is bread and butter to any programmer, and supporting it is pretty trivial.\r\n\r\nATwardoch
    here: But implementing the layout engines \u2014 it\u2019s not trivial. Not only
    you need to follow the published specs and the unpublished notes ....This is all
    quite complicated for the implementers of OpenType Layout engines. I personally
    know three major OpenType Layout engines in which the developers tried to implement
    the behaviors exactly as specified in the spec, but made mistakes because they
    either did not implement the unspecified \u201Ccommon knowledge\u201D that is
    shared between Adobe and Microsoft, and is only sometimes described unofficially
    on some lists.\r\n\r\nJHudson here: So rather than saying \u2019Adobe should build
    fonts that work with contemporary products\u2019, I would say that contemporary
    products should support contemporary text layout, especially when that layout
    is part of an ISO standard [MPEG!] specification.\r\n\r\nJHudson here: I comment
    from the rock face, and I do consider it the proper business of app developers
    to build roads through behind me to the place where I am blasting.....pretty much
    every font I ship only works fully in a small number of current apps, and I expect
    fonts and apps to develop in tandem ....\r\n\r\nJHudson on typophile in 2006:
    It seems to me that the majority of users are interested in having fonts that
    are relatively simple to use and which work consistently across a wide range of
    applications, and this ease of use and compatibility is more important, for most
    users, than having fonts that do lots of clever things but inconsistently and
    only if the user knows how to operate them properly. \r\n\r\nCouldn't have said
    it better!"
  created: '2008-11-19 23:40:04'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">They have produced the technically most advanced fonts available.\r\n\r\nYeah.
    So advanced they only work in their developers' heads. Karsten, it isn't about
    what you can get the font to do in your head. It's about what you can get the
    font to do in the applications for which it's designed. So the Vista C-fonts don't
    work in MS Word, not even simple kerning . . . . fonts that work in CS2 are broke
    in CS3 . . . and on and on. As Adam put it, 'Microsoft blew the chance to add
    some proper OpenType Layout features for non-complex scripts when they were working
    on Office 2007.'\r\n\r\nUntil apps support OpenType consistently and uniformly
    (i.e., until there is uniform cross-platform OS-level support), OpenType font
    development is more a hobby than a profession. \r\n\r\nTell me Karsten, when did
    you last have definitive word from Microsoft about when MS apps are going to support
    its own OT fonts fully? \r\n\r\nIf the past is any guide (Verdana roman will never
    have kerning because it would cause reflow problems with legacy documents, according
    to John), the answer could well be 'never.'\r\n\r\nAnyone know different? "
  created: '2008-11-20 00:52:11'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Thomas P: <cite>I\u2019ll just note that any kerning that works in TextEdit
    almost certainly works in other Apple apps such as Pages and Keynote.</cote>\r\n\r\nOddly
    enough while kerning appears to work the same, other features actually make TextEdit
    the more advanced editor for complex Latin text editing (stacked accents, or simply
    mark positioning).  Try putting a tilde on a q in Pages and then try the same
    thing in TextEdit.\r\n\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas
    nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-11-20 01:15:37'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>Tell me Karsten, when did you last have definitive word from Microsoft
    about when MS apps are going to support its own OT fonts fully?</cite>\r\n\r\nHello
    Bill, I can only speak for myself and my two fonts: I simply don't care. It is
    Microsoft's applications, not mine. If they decide to not support OT layout features
    -- <em>including kern</em> -- then it is their beer, not mine. Moreover, if people
    are fine without kerning or without typographic layout features, then I am fine
    with it too. Office is for office work, not for typesetting books.\r\nAnd we always
    have the option to submit feature requests or bug reports.&nbsp;&nbsp;;-)"
  created: '2008-11-20 12:25:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill, re. the 'conflicting quotes':\r\n\r\nI'd need to go and find the context
    for the 2006 quote, but I think the viewpoint as stated can be reconciled with
    what I wrote in this thread by an automotive metaphor. The vast majority of people
    need cars that are road-worthy, reliable and safe to drive in a variety of weather
    conditions and on a variety of surfaces. But the development and racing of Formula-1
    cars is not unrelated to that need."
  created: '2008-11-21 18:58:33'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'Such a nicely expressed thought impels me for once to restraint. '
  created: '2008-11-23 00:17:58'
date: '2008-08-04 12:44:29'
title: OT kern problem in Quark 7

---
