---
author:
  name: Stefan Seifert
  picture: 112624
body: "Hi everyone,\r\n\r\nhere is a typeface of mine on which I am working.\r\n\r\nsalute\r\nStefan"
comments:
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "No comments?\r\n:-("
  created: '2008-08-06 11:12:02'
- author:
    name: lapiak
    picture: 111789
  body: I really like it! It's well drawn and it has an appealing style. My only problem
    personally, is that it's easier for me to critique if it was set black on white.
    Do you think you could provide another pdf? Thanks, and nice work!
  created: '2008-08-06 15:39:20'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Hi Joachim!\r\n\r\nThanks for your nice comment!\r\nYou are perfectly right
    what concerns the presentation.\r\nIt was part of a grafic design pdf (that doesn\u2019t
    convince myself either;-)\r\nI will see what I can do. I do not like the monitor
    white. It seems so hard to me.\r\nBut I\u2019ll do something.\r\n\r\nThanks again
    so far\r\nStefan"
  created: '2008-08-07 07:59:00'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "Hallo Stefan,\r\n\r\nsehr interessant, gleich zu Anfang, ich bin kein Schriftgestalter,
    Ausrufezeichen.\r\nMein erster Eindruck ist \u2026 Origami. \u201EAus Papier gefaltete
    Schrift\u201C, das habe ich so noch nicht gesehen. Dein Blindtext sieht f\xFCr
    mich auf den ersten Blick sehr klassisch, sehr roman aus, gefolgt sogleich von
    \u201Eseltsamen perspektivischen Verschiebungen\u201C, wie gesagt sehr interessant.
    Mehr als 2 Bier habe ich gerade, am Fr. abend, 22.41 Uhr, nicht intus :))\r\n\r\nGr\xFC\xDFe
    Thomas \r\n \r\nFrutiger hat ja am Anfang Schrift ausgeschnitten, siehe Ondine
    \u2026\r\nDein g hat in der Vergr\xF6\xDFerung einen Darstellungsfehler, nur so
    als Hinweis\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-15 21:43:20'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Hallo Thomas!\r\n\r\nDanke f\xFCr Deine sehr interessante und sehr treffende
    Kritik (=Lob).\r\nOrigami? hm, da war ich noch nicht drauf gekommen. \r\nAber
    zum einen finde auch ich, dass sie eine klassische, \u201Eromane\u201C (lustig,
    wie Du das auf den Punkt bringst) Orientierung hat.\r\nTats\xE4chlich trieft meine
    Bewunderung f\xFCr die Jenson Antiqua (Roman) ihr aus allen Poren.\r\nNicht nur
    das typische e sondern auch die Ausbalancierung des g etc.\r\n(das hat seit 1470
    niemand mehr hinbekommen!)\r\nMit den perspektivischen Verschiebungen hast Du
    es auch ziemlich gut getroffen.\r\nTats\xE4chlich war ich bei dieser Type von
    einer Fotoserie (ich arbeite immer nach Frauen/Modefotografien) inspiriert von
    Steven Meisel aus der Vogue Italia (Titel \u201EReflections..\u201C)\r\nMit merkw\xFCrdigen
    Filtern glitten die sehr klassischen Aufnahmen in bestimmten Bereichen ins Ungewisse,
    teils Verzerrte ab. Sch\xE4tze, das hat irgendwie seinen Weg in die Schrift gefunden.
    Tats\xE4chlich finden sich Doppelungen von einigen Innen und Aussenformen an verschiedenen
    Stellen der Buchstaben wieder (an Stellen, wo sie nicht hingeh\xF6ren).\r\nWenn
    Du willst kann ich Dir mehr Bilder dazu schicken/bzw. reinstellen.\r\nDas mit
    dem g war mir auch aufgefallen. Keine Ahnung woran das liegt.\r\n\r\nDanke nochmal\r\nStefan"
  created: '2008-08-18 11:18:56'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "Hallo Stefan,\r\n\r\nja das war als Kompliment bzw. Assoziationkette gedacht
    und soll(te) anregen!\r\n\r\nIch hatte das letzte Posting auf deutsch geschrieben,
    das ich in dieser Art nicht auf Englisch hinbekommen h\xE4tte. \r\n\r\nInteressieren
    w\xFCrde mich besonders dein Inspirationpart \u201EReflexions\u201C (wenn du Lust
    hast, k\xF6nntest du mir ein Foto bzw. ein Scan per PM zukommen lassen). \r\n\r\nJa
    mehr Ansichten deiner Schrift, auch s/w, w\xE4ren reizvoll. \r\nVielleicht versteife
    ich mich etwas zu sehr auf Origami, aber diese Richtung gepaart mit \u201Epure
    roman\u201C k\xF6nnte doch schlussendlich zu einer eigenst\xE4ndigen (Display?)-Schrift
    f\xFChren, ein bisschen k\xFCnstlich d\xFCrfte das schon sein f\xFCr meine Geschmacksnerven,
    sich nur keinem Jenson zu sehr hingeben ;)\r\n\r\nViele Gr\xFC\xDFe und frohes
    Schaffen, wie man in W\xFCrttemberg so sagt ;)\r\nw\xFCnscht Thomas\r\n\r\nPS
    Die Latinos machen solche Design-Threads auch immer gerne in Muttersprache, also
    diesmal teutonisch von meiner Seite aus \u2026"
  created: '2008-08-18 18:54:20'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "\x7FThe two things that most stand out two me are related, the bottom stroke
    of the c and the e.  They just look a little like they're tumbling over on themselves,
    and so while the rest of the letters look almost like impossibly perfectly balanced
    wire statues of sorts, those two seem a little too impossible.  (okay, on retrospect,
    that description might make no sense whatsoever ha).  I think if you can extend
    the strokes a little bit more it'll balance those letters again.  But I love the
    overall feel.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos
    damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-08-18 19:53:11'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Hi Thomas, hi Matthew!\r\n\r\nThanks (again) for your compliments and critics!\r\nI
    am very glad that you feel interested in my very personal characters.\r\nGood
    feeling! Makes courage to go on in times like these where my inspiration seems
    a bit low. ;-)\r\nThomas, what\u2019s wrong with Jenson? He did the most inspired
    and perfect roman type in history of humanity!\r\n(I am sorry for the Aldus folks,
    but his rhythm of letters is unbeaten up today! ;-)\r\nYet, I believe its personal
    enough and specially with this character I am almost afraid of changing anything.\r\nEven
    making it better. It came so suddenly to me and everytime I tried to modifiy something
    it turned out to loose something of its freshness (I hope). Matthew, you are certainly
    right what concerns \u2018e\u2019 and \u2018c\u2019. I tried to do so and returned
    to the start after all.\r\nSo I have decided to make little changes. I hope you
    stay with it nevertheless. Thanks again for your critics and interest!\r\nVery
    very nice from you both.\r\n\r\nWhen I return from work I look to place some pictures
    of its process.\r\n\r\nMatthew: You definitely have to translate the sentence
    that you cited in Spanish above.\r\nSeems very very interesting to me! Currently
    I am trying to gether some thoughts for a book more about beauty and its research
    in general. This thing with the thin line (my Italian permits me to understand
    something vaguely) is definitely of great interest for me!\r\n\r\nThanks again\r\nhear
    you\r\n\r\nStefan(o)"
  created: '2008-08-19 08:29:12'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Hi Thomas,\r\n\r\nhere are some pictures.\r\nMaybe better if you drag them
    on your desktop.\r\n\r\nThanks again for being interested.\r\nStefan\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ry_4875.gif][img:sites/default/files/old-images/s-in-g_1_5317.gif][img:sites/default/files/old-images/Dioryiri_Rhythmus_5650.gif][img:sites/default/files/old-images/Image_r_3581.gif]"
  created: '2008-08-19 18:11:22'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "I had problems uploading this one\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/g_Schlinge_3576.gif]"
  created: '2008-08-19 18:13:11'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "I kind of like the feeling of this, especially when it's small, but I think
    that you have to work more on the details to get \u201Csmoother curves\u201D \u2013
    as we say ;-)\r\n\r\nAnd perhaps also experiment (or study) a little with the
    angle that a pen would have wrote those letters in. That is if you imagine a broad
    nib pen, how would you have hold it? In what angle? And what effects would it
    have on your letters. Then of course, you can move on away from that, but as a
    start it is good to think a little bit on that.\r\n\r\nGood luck with your letters!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-19 19:04:44'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Hi Goran,\r\n\r\n-> to work more on the details to get \u201Csmoother curves\u201D\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s
    exactly what I wanted (and still want) to avoid at any cost!\r\nI would like (and
    I think I did) a typeface that doesn\u2019t look digital.\r\nBezi\xE9r curves
    changes natural form. And therefor I am experimenting mistreating them.\r\n\r\nThanks
    for your interest and wishings\r\n\r\nStefan"
  created: '2008-08-20 17:25:20'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Hi again,\r\n\r\nsorry I was in a hurry a bit.\r\nYour idea with the broad
    nip pen is certainly good and right.\r\nYet I am orientating myself with other
    forms that I want to achieve/understand/simulate.\r\nI attach another photo. Look
    at the part of neck, where those tiny vertical muscles (very thin and sharp) only
    a little bit make themselves visible under the skin. Then there are others more
    evident. This is what I am searching for: Beauty.\r\nZapf did some ver precise
    and good calligraphic typefaces, and others, too. I find them boring, I am sorry.\r\nBeauty
    for me is different. You don\u2019t construct it. You feel it, try to catch it,
    but then you let it. One wonders why a form is beautiful, inspiring - and another
    is not. It has to do with secrets, doesn\u2019t it?\r\n\r\nyou say: - \u2026as
    WE say.\r\nI am sorry, but I will probably never make part of this WE.\r\nTherefor
    I will never be a digital typeface designer who may sell his fonts.\r\nIt\u2019s
    ok for me.\r\n\r\nThanks again\r\nStefan[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Skin_surface_6056.gif]"
  created: '2008-08-20 18:13:40'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "<cite> -> to work more on the details to get \u201Csmoother curves\u201D.
    That\u2019s exactly what I wanted (and still want) to avoid at any cost! I would
    like (and I think I did) a typeface that doesn\u2019t look digital. Bezi\xE9r
    curves changes natural form. And therefor I am experimenting mistreating them.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    whole idea with \u201Dsmoother curves\u201D is to make it less digital looking,
    so that was what I meant. Sorry for not being so clear. But I disagree that bezier
    curves changes natural forms, I use them to make the forms so natural as possible.\r\n
    \r\n<cite> you say: - \u2026as WE say. I am sorry, but I will probably never make
    part of this WE. Therefor I will never be a digital typeface designer who may
    sell his fonts.\r\nIt\u2019s ok for me.</cite>\r\n\r\nI think we misunderstand
    each other here, I wasnt referring to any part of a group, only me really :) And
    hey, never say never! Your font could very well be the most selling font in a
    couple of years. Who knows.\r\n\r\nKeep up the good work!"
  created: '2008-08-21 13:56:20'
- author:
    name: Solt
    picture: 111762
  body: "Stefan, i think your design has some real potential for a nice display font.
    there are forms that i find interesting and beautiful in a strange way. \r\nif,
    however, your goal is a non-digital look you are on a completely wrong track.
    it is exactly the bumpy curves that make your typeface immediately recognizable
    as a digital one. that bumpiness has a typical Bezier flavour to it. just as the
    razor sharp intersections, like at the tail of the g.\r\ni don\u2019t say this
    is a bad thing. but maybe it is not what you inteded."
  created: '2008-08-21 16:04:47'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "<cite> if, however, your goal is a non-digital look you are on a completely
    wrong track. it is exactly the bumpy curves that make your typeface immediately
    recognizable as a digital one. </cite>\r\n\r\nHm. Interesting this thought. I
    never saw it this way around. Could be, too.\r\nMaybe I am too digital (for I
    also never do drawings by hand, immediately design on the monitor with bez\xED\xE9rs).
    You gave me a very interesting point of view with this remark.\r\n\r\nFor what
    regards the bumpiness I think I didn\u2019t explain me right. I am designing now
    for years and years with these curves and what I meant is the following:\r\nEverytime
    I use these curves in a correct way (so that near the points there are no bumps
    etc. - and believe me, please, I am able to do so;-) for my eyes I cannot achieve
    the overall form that I wanted. The relation between the tangents in their length
    to each other always lead to a certain character of form (to me). If one makes
    them smooth without allowing them to offer points of critique in a way (from a
    technical point of view) they secretely make curves more elliptical - really hard
    to explain my feeling here: the letters become digital looking. You will agree
    with me that nearly all typefaces on the world by now are in a certain way very
    similar to each other. They will never look like lets say for example a handcut
    Van Krimpen face or a Jenson and so on. To me (maybe I am terribly wrong here
    - almost like to say: I hope so) they all have this defect of being too elliptical
    - in  a way they look strangely stretchable, smooth but not round. Not like a
    beautiful handdrawn circle would. Thats why I attached those woman fotos. Look
    at their body forms, the way the skin moves, muscles. Those forms are different
    to those of digital letters.\r\nIn a word I still believe that there is something
    wrong in a digital bezier curve. (By the way here: have you heard about Raph Levians
    alternative curves?) And I try under an artistic aspect to experiment with it.
    Making them with bumps: BUT that the overall form of letter seems to me agreeable.
    If you said there is something strangely beautiful (and it is far from being the
    result of what I wanted) in them: it is that. I refused bettering Beziers in zones
    where I observed that this would change the original spontaneous form.\r\nFirst
    sketches were made in FontStudio (version 92 I think) Although I love FontLab
    there it is more simple to find those originary forms. Maybe because the defects
    of beziers show less obviously in the first steps of work.\r\nMaybe I will never
    make it to explain my feelings about it.\r\nDid you ever designed a form and then
    later you recognize that you are afraid of changing it?\r\nWith this character
    I made this experience. Everytime I tried to make something better it became worse.
    But now this is becoming too personal I guess.. ;-)\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite> But I disagree
    that bezier curves changes natural forms </cite>\r\n\r\nJust believe me: THEY
    DO!\r\n\r\nStefan\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-22 08:21:11'
- author:
    name: Solt
    picture: 111762
  body: "i am certain you can draw any form you desire using Beziers. however, it
    can be necessary to insert additional points. \r\nand maybe you should not start
    right on the screen but rather take some piece of paper or foil and cut out the
    letterforms before digitizing them \u2013 or use some other analog method."
  created: '2008-08-22 09:44:58'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Stefan, I know you're doing this project in FontLab, but maybe using FontForge's
    spiros curves might help a lot?\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina
    que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por
    Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-08-22 19:23:09'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "<cite>Stefan Seifert: (By the way here: have you heard about Raph Levians
    alternative curves?)</cite>\r\n\r\nYes. Raph's Spiro curves have been available
    as a drawing mode in [[http://fontforge.sf.net/|FontForge]] for about 9 months
    now. If you are running Linux, or have X11 or Cygwin on your Mac or Windows PC
    (respectively), check it out."
  created: '2008-08-22 23:33:21'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "<cite> i am certain you can draw any form you desire using Beziers. however,
    it can be necessary to insert additional points. <cite>\r\n\r\nGuess that\u2019s
    my personal 15 years experience against FontLab manual ;-)\r\n\r\nThanks guys!\r\nI\u2019ll
    keep on working on it.\r\n\r\nStefan"
  created: '2008-08-25 10:34:05'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "\u2026\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-12 20:26:14'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Why the hell there is no way to find to attach pdfs?\r\nMakes me seak\r\nInsert
    Image doesn\u2019t work and I am so tired\u2026\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-12 20:28:14'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "You can attach PDFs by editing the original post.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro
    es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB.
    (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-09-12 20:31:30'
- author:
    name: sasapetrova
    picture: 115714
  body: Lets ask the webmaster to let us post PDFs a well.
  created: '2008-09-13 07:34:33'
- author:
    name: sasapetrova
    picture: 115714
  body: It should be possible.
  created: '2008-09-13 07:35:28'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Thanks Matthew,\r\n\r\nbut in this way it is always attached to the first
    post.\r\nIf I want to attach it to the last one?\r\n(for example here and not
    at the beginning?\r\n\r\nI attached however a new pdf.\r\nIt is on the start ;-)\r\n\r\nThanks
    guys\r\n\r\nStefano\r\n\r\nYou didn\u2019t do the translation of your spanish
    phrase!\r\nLet me know for heavens sake ;-)"
  created: '2008-09-13 11:14:14'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Yes, pretty much all you can do when you post a new PDF is make an announcement
    message like you just did to call attention to it.
  created: '2008-09-13 18:42:33'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Thank You, Jason!\r\n\r\nAt least now I know to be not completely foolish
    ;-)\r\n\r\nStefan"
  created: '2008-09-14 12:15:54'
- author:
    name: mgking
    picture: 113533
  body: "Hope it isn't too late to jump in. These are very nice.  The Dior is a really
    stylish display and Reflection is one I would love to use, save for two problems
    in the text sample.  Your capital C is lovely as a stand-alone, but interrupts
    the flow of the text.  I think it is a bit too wide.  And the lc letter f seems
    to crowd the adjacent letters.  I don't know if this is due to shape of the letter
    or the kerning in the sample.  If you ever produce a beta, I would be happy to
    test it.\r\nmgk"
  created: '2008-12-12 05:09:22'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Hey Michel!\r\n\r\nActually its never to late here (typophile) to jump in!
    (they told me, too;-) Thanks for the compliments and critics!\r\nActually I am
    still working at it. Lately I made some small caps to do a \u201EMiss Dior\u201C
    lettering.\r\nI am not quite sure wether I could sell it. There is too much work
    undone for an allround using.\r\nI still hope to prepare very exclusive faces
    (most aren\u2019t even complete) to do letterings for example as I would love\r\nto
    do for Dior. For example new perfume or something like that.\r\nMy problem seems
    to be contacting the houses (f.e. Dior) or the person responsabile for they use
    to hand over any material send to the stuff offices (they are only interested
    however in the curriculum-right word in English?).\r\nI will keep on working however.\r\nAnd
    positve feedbacks like yours are certainly a great help to me!\r\n\r\nsalute\r\nStefan"
  created: '2009-01-07 08:21:40'
date: '2008-08-04 18:51:51'
files:
- filename: Reflection_probe.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Reflection_probe.pdf
- filename: ChristianDior.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/ChristianDior.pdf
node_type: forum
title: semi serif typeface

---
