---
author:
  name: blank
body: "I\u2019m looking for reading materials on the humanist sans-serif calligraphy
  that lead to the development of sans-serif humanist type. Zapf and Stone have documented
  their influences but I\u2019m looking for more information on the roots of Johnston\u2019s
  Underground, Frutiger, Syntax, etc. What can I read to learn more about the handwriting
  that inspired these designs?"
comments:
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: I believe the influence is indirect, through old style roman type faces also
    called 'humanistic'.
  created: '2008-08-04 23:51:40'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "James, I will be interested to hear what you learn and how your thinking
    evolves. Without knowing anything about it at all, I have never been comfortable
    with the idea that Underground developed from calligraphy. It doesn't look like
    a calligraphic typeface to me -- does it look like Flora to you? Just because
    the caps are proportioned less rigidly than in conventional grotesques does not
    somehow endow this typeface with calligraphic value. Johnston was a great calligrapher.
    So what? I think the sources are more likely to be found more widely in art nouveau
    and art deco.\r\n\r\nI also object to the idea that calligraphy is, necessarily,
    in and of itself, a desirable influence on type.\r\n\r\nAnd finally I am uncomfortable
    with the designation 'humanist'. This is a warm, fuzzy word that implies that
    there is something 'human' rather than machine-like about a type. You constantly
    read, in font PR, about 'warm, humanist touches' in this that or the other typeface.
    OK to have PR, but let's not fall into the trap of believing it.\r\n\r\nThe word
    itself was developed to contrast not with the machine but with the divine, and
    the OED, as yet, has not recognized the use of the word in typography. (OED3 draft)\r\n\r\nIn
    my sometime role as reader for the OED, I will be sending my editor there a note
    on this because like it or not, the word has been used extensively in writing
    about type. Any help identifying sources for the earliest quotations using the
    word in its typographic sense would be greatly appreciated. \r\n\r\nIn this thread:
    http://www.typophile.com/node/35213\r\n\r\nthere is a fair share of nonsense.
    When Updike, a tremendously careful writer who would never introduce a novel term
    without defining it, spoke of humanist influences, he will have been using the
    word properly, something like 'the system of the Humanists, the study of the Roman
    and Greek classics which came into vogue at the Renascence' or 'Pertaining to
    or characteristic of the humanists or classical scholars of the Renascence; classical.'
    \r\n\r\nIt's not always easy to know what people meant when they said it.\r\n\r\nAnd
    type people, the divine Bringhurst not excepted, have taken too many unnecessary
    liberties with the language in late years.\r\n\r\nIt would be great if you could
    separate some of the wheat from some of the chaff. Stone has really been studying
    this topic. I would contact him directly.\r\n\r\nI think I know what happened
    to 'humanist' in type. Someone, too clever by half (maybe Updike?) used the term
    humanist to refer vaguely to Renaissance-style proportioning of letters. The usage
    was picked up by someone who was at a loss to describe the Johnston sans serif
    caps. Others, not so clever, picked up on it, or, on the other hand, spotting
    a great potential PR manoeuver, said, what the hell, let's go with it, even if
    it is daffy. It works! (and it does)\r\n\r\nThe thing is, when you use the word
    'humanist' today, to people who don't know that all it really means is 'not Godly',
    it has enormous cachet, enormous allure. \r\n\r\nBut I am firmly of the opinion
    that the first thing we should do in talking about type is to reject cute neologisms.
    Just because one has thought of them or found them clever doesn't mean they are
    good enough to be used in our discourse. I am so glad that I haven't heard Bringhurst's
    'bicameral' lately, but maybe I haven't been reading Typophile enough. Or is his
    influence on the wane? A fabulous book, but ... trust the language. I don't like
    special vocabulary in philosophy any more than I like it in type, or in any field.
    Plain English is good enough for me! "
  created: '2008-08-05 00:38:42'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "For what it's worth, on humanism, see\r\n\r\nhttp://vlib.iue.it/carrie/texts/carrie_books/gilbert/05.html\r\n\r\nwhich
    brings me closer to the idea that humanist in typographic usage is simply an unnecessary
    synonym for Aldine. \r\n\r\n'With the invention of printing in the middle of the
    fifteenth century, it became possible to turn out in large quantities texts of
    classical writings. During the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries the great bulk
    of all known classical literature, both Greek and Roman, came from the press.
    Although printing was not an Italian invention, most of the first editions of
    the classics were printed in Italy until about the time of the Sack of Rome. The
    greatest of the early Italian printers was Aldo Manuzio of Venice ....\r\n\r\nhumanist
    in type really does seem inseparable from Aldine.\r\n\r\nBut I thought Morison
    et al. did a lot of work to show that why what Aldus and his lot did was so great
    was that it _rejected_ the calligraphic in favour of the purely _typographical_.
    So we go back to the earliest cap inscriptions . . . . which are not calligraphic.
    \r\n"
  created: '2008-08-05 01:14:02'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The upper case is originally derived from painted and inscribed letters,
    according to the [[http://www.typophile.com/node/45708|recent account of Sumner
    Stone]]. The reflects the views of other historians, which he references. The
    origin of the Carolingian minuscule is undoubtedly calligraphic or chirographic,
    pen-driven. However, in the 15th century it was modified to make it less calligraphic,
    influenced by the Imperial capitals, and I think Jenson and Griffo made it less
    pen drawn in ways that made roman type more even in color and readable. \r\n\r\nThis
    makes sans in turn influenced by Jenson and Griffo's proportions only remotely
    derived from the pen. Still, the pen is an important \"underlying force\" (as
    van Krimpen put it) in the letter shapes. At least that's my story, and I'm sticking
    to it :)"
  created: '2008-08-05 03:11:25'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/humanist_6210.gif]'
  created: '2008-08-05 03:44:05'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "James,\r\n\r\nI think your terms may need a massage. I suspect that you'd
    get several very different answers from Frutiger, Meier, Zapf, Johnston and Stone
    regarding the specific models that influenced their typefaces. Specifically we
    know it was stone inscriptional lettering Zapf built Optima on, And I think Meier
    has referred to renaissance typefaces in discussing Syntax. Frutiger I very much
    doubt was looking at anything scribal. At the time, Frutiger was a very unusual
    hybrid of type forms. I actually think none of your examples are very closely
    related to anything scribal, they are probably all more related to other types.
    I especially think \"handwriting\" is not an appropriate term if you are trying
    to trace influences in these specific types. \r\n\r\n\"Humanist sans\" probably
    is meant to suggest that the structure follows the Aldine, renaissance, or whatever
    you want to call those classic proportions. But I think it's generally true that
    the references are to typefaces, not necessarily writing or calligraphy. "
  created: '2008-08-05 04:16:09'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em> the idea that humanist in typographic usage is simply an unnecessary
    synonym for Aldine.</em>\r\n\r\nAn early and influential use of \"humanist\" for
    seriffed types is the Vox classification, in which, it seems to me, the term is
    used (invented?) precisely to <em>distinguish</em> Jenson-like types from Aldine
    ones (named \"garaldes\" in his scheme).\r\n\r\nJames - I've been researching
    the question of how the concept of the \"humanist sans\" developed (thus my initiation
    of the earlier thread cited above). Still a work very much in progress but if
    you're interested in seeing some of what I've written, shoot me an email."
  created: '2008-08-05 04:43:59'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Thanks, all. I did find a money quote from Stone that appeared in an issue
    of <em>Font</em> <a href=\"http://www.creativepro.com/article/dot-font-type-tradition-in-a-digital-age\">reviewed
    by John D. Berry</a>:\r\n\r\n\"Unlike serifed forms,\" he says, \"where the inscribed
    lettering of Imperial Rome has served as a model during the Renaissance and into
    modern times, there is no canonical sans serif letter. The problem of creating
    one is similar to the problem faced by Virgil in creating a mythological history
    for Rome.\""
  created: '2008-08-05 04:50:34'
- author:
    name: wolfgang_homola
    picture: 109746
  body: "Keith Tam wrote an essay called\r\n'Calligraphic Tendencies in the Development
    \r\nof Sanserif Types in the Twentieth Century'\r\n\r\nYou can read it at Mark
    Jamra's typeculture website\r\nhttp://www.typeculture.com/academic_resource/articles_essays/"
  created: '2008-08-05 08:03:30'
- author:
    name: daniele capo
    picture: 113718
  body: "I think the word \u2018humanist\u2019 in this context means: \u2018similar
    to the writing of italian humanists like Poggio Bracciolini etc.\u2019 \r\n\r\nSo
    you can think at humanist sans-serif as a humanist hand without contrast. I have
    the little book of Ann Camp \u2018Pen Lettering\u2018 where in the first chapter
    \u2018The Alphabet in Skeleton Form\u2019 the first excercises are made with a
    soft pencil: the result is an alphabet similar to Gill Sans, without contrast
    and with the proportions of the \u2018Roman Hand\u2019 (after that stage you must
    construct a double pencil to see the effects of the pen)."
  created: '2008-08-05 09:19:22'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">So you can think at humanist sans-serif as a humanist hand without contrast.<\r\n\r\nDon't
    you mean by humanist -- i.e., Aldine -- type? \r\n\r\nHumanist sans = sans with
    Aldine proportions. \r\n\r\nWhere does the hand come into this? \r\n\r\nCan we
    get rid of this word that seems to confuse everyone?\r\n\r\nAnd please let's not
    forget that Monotype created a version of Gill Sans which with something like
    8 letters replaced out of 52 - - I forget how many - - made an acceptable clone
    of Futura. That alone is enough to put a big dent in any claim that Gill Sans
    is significantly humanist, renaissance, Aldine, anything but what it is, a stylish
    clone of Johnston. Why do we have to be more serious about it? We're in constant
    danger of looking silly when we read too much into Johnston/Gill Sans, etc. See
    Walter Tracy, Letters of Credit, as I recall, for the quotation and illustration.\r\n\r\nGood
    heavens, everyone wanted to get the hand out of anything to do with Gill. That's
    one of the reasons it wasn't cut by hand as a guide first. It was supposed to
    look machined. But let's not forget the humanism applies to the difference of
    the human and the divine, not the difference between the human and the machine."
  created: '2008-08-05 17:56:15'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite>It\u2019s not always easy to know what people meant when they said
    it.<cite>\r\n\r\nThis is true for almost all type terms it seems. Our specialist
    language is squishy in the extreme. \r\n\r\nActually when I read\"humanist\" I
    expect to see a diagonal stress present. Slight or great. An not much more. As
    in contrast to no stress or a vertical one. That's all. Maybe that's the result
    of the term's overuse. But still, that's the ad copy derived sense of the thing
    I have. I don't make claims for the oprimacy of this. But I also reject the idea
    that another definition has primacy either. At least not yet.\r\n\r\nI do think
    that given the squishy nature of the specialist terms you have to accept that
    unless & until you develop a body of shared terms with another type designer where
    you know what they mean & they you ( a shared or mutual set of definitions or
    touch-stones) you will not be able to use the terms all that effectively. It's
    a bit sad but - too bad! That's how it is. This is part of why new terms come
    burbling up!"
  created: '2008-08-05 20:02:26'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "Instead of using \"humanist\" or \"humanist form principle\" Hans Peter Willberg*
    has suggested the term \"dynamic\". On the other hand he suggested \"static\"
    instead of \"modern\"\r\nFor example, Adobe Garamond is classified as a dynamic
    typeface, Bodoni as a static typeface. Syntax a dynamic Sans-Serif, Helvetica
    a Sans-Serif with the stylistic feature of a static form principle. I find this
    quite handy for a first classification. \r\n\r\n* a well known typographer in
    Germany, died in 2003"
  created: '2008-08-05 22:28:26'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "In the Humanistic sans the pattern of thick and thin \u2014 in other words,
    where on the letterform thicks and thins fall \u2014 is typical of what one would
    gets in writing with a broad pen held at a constant angle."
  created: '2008-08-06 00:25:02'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "For dynamic = oldstyle, Aldine, etc.\r\nand static = modern, Didone, etc.\r\n\r\nI
    ask -- why? The terms are highly value-laden and the values are outside typography
    or aesthetics. You could reply that the terms oldstyle and modern are, albeit
    a few degrees less, also value-laden. So what's the problem with Aldine and Didone?
    Except that neither is useful in classifying a sans. Sans serif classification
    is tough.\r\n\r\nI find Peter's view difficult to accept. There is no sans serif
    that has anything like the contrast of a broad pen penstroke. The first thing
    one learns in designing a sans is that there is only so much contrast the vernacular
    will allow, and it is small.\r\n\r\nRobert Slimbach said that Chronos was not
    a clone of Today Sans Serif because to the extent he drew over Today, he drew
    over it with a felt pen and then digitized the results. Be that as it may, the
    two typefaces are remarkably similar. To speak of one as pen-derived and the other
    as not would be stretching it. \r\n\r\nMy view is that if a humanist sans has
    diagonal stress -- which it needn't at all have to enjoy this classification -
    - it derives its stress from Aldine letters, and only therefore quite indirectly
    from the pen. I still don't see how any sans serif comes from the pen, except
    for those with absolutely calligraphic italics. \r\n\r\nBy the way, Today Sans
    was the first sans superfamily, not, as Martin Majoor claims, Scala Sans. \r\n\r\nBy
    the way, if there's something intrinsically humanist about a sans roman, such
    as, presumably, Frutiger, and you then slant the roman to get the italic, what
    is it about the slanted version of the italic that is not humanist -- except in
    the mind of a PR guru? At just what degree of slant did it lose its humanity?
    For, as we know, the only italics that count as humanist are those that are explicitly
    calligraphic or, in practice, chancery-derived.\r\n\r\nThere's another point where
    the humanist label fails. Strictly speaking, it ought to mean the same thing for
    an italic and for a roman, yet it doesn't. Indeed, it ought, probably, to apply
    either to the hand-derived 15th century italics, OR to the 15th century purely
    typographic romans, considering that they were not, then, when humanism was actually
    happening, paired types, but entirely separate types. When you try to use the
    label for both, it's particularly difficult to tell what you might be meaning
    by it."
  created: '2008-08-06 01:08:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I don''t know how much use this is, when I look at a sans I focus first on
    the shape of the o they are based on. The oval o (and narrower n) is more ''humanist''--based
    on old style serif types. The circular o is ''geometric'', and starts in the 1930s.
    And the wider, somewhat squared off o is from the 19th century ''grotesque''.
    This is just a rough starting point, because there is a huge variety of treatments,
    but still it''s a start. '
  created: '2008-08-06 01:35:47'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: So William, is this independent of stress? (To the extent stress is detectable?)
  created: '2008-08-06 01:47:35'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>There is no sans serif that has anything like the contrast of a
    broad pen penstroke.</em>\r\n\r\nLook at the cube (see image above). Everything
    you need to know about the difference between 'grotesque' and 'humanist' sans
    is shown there. What is important to understanding the difference is what happens
    in the rest of the cube, because the contrast of the actual sans letters is so
    low that the stroke dynamic isn't obvious. But once you see the whole picture,
    you realise that \u2018grotesque' sans correspond to the construction of expansion
    based stroke letters, while \u2018humanist' sans correspond to the construction
    of translation based stroke letters. Sans serif letters are, apart from their
    obvious lack of serifs, typically letters with greatly reduced stroke contrast.
    But if one takes letters created with a split nib pen (expansion stroke, \u2018modern',
    \u2018didone', \u2018romantic') and systematically reduces their contrast one
    ends up with a grotesque sans. If one starts with letters created with a broad
    nib (translation stroke, \u2018humanist', \u2018garalde', \u2018renaissance')
    and similarly reduce the contrast one ends up with a humanist sans.\r\n\r\nThe
    terminology that we apply to these forms is cultural and, hence, freighted with
    associations (as you note with regard to \u2018static' and \u2018dynamic'). This
    isn't a bad thing, but it shouldn't be mistaken for understanding of letterform
    construction."
  created: '2008-08-06 04:23:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Everything you need to know about the difference between\r\n> \u2019grotesque\u2019
    and \u2019humanist\u2019 sans is shown there.\r\n\r\nCodswallop.\r\nThe most significant
    thing about that cube is what's missing.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-06 05:26:10'
- author:
    name: Solt
    picture: 111762
  body: "when Hans Peter Willberg \u2013 like Erich Schulz-Anker in his introduction
    to Syntax Antiqua \u2013  describes tyefaces as static or dynamic he does not
    refer to varying stroke thickness but to the underlying architecture:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/statdyn_5116.png]\r\nthinking
    of typefaces in such terms is \u2013 at least to me \u2013 more useful than tagging
    labels as Humanist to them. \r\n"
  created: '2008-08-06 07:23:57'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "I thought the cube was there for a joke. I find it unconvincing. \r\n\r\nThe
    thing that is wrong with all of these arguments is that the Aldine sans has two
    parents: secondarily, the Aldine roman, but primarily the Modern sans.\r\n\r\nIt
    is the Modern sans which overwhelmingly sets up the possible vernacular of the
    sans serif. It is what prevents us from having high contrast sanses. They just
    don't look right. I'll try to illustrate later what I mean with some old drawings
    from a study for Romanee sans. The Aldine sans is not a thing in itself, but a
    very minor, very subtle variation of the Modern sans. \r\n\r\nWe could have a
    true Aldine sans -- that would be my claim -- only that nobody would want to see
    it. "
  created: '2008-08-06 09:26:31'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Bill, faces with low contrast conceal the differences in their approach to
    contrast styling by definition, but John is right when he states: \"if one takes
    letters created with a split nib pen (expansion stroke, \u2018modern\u2019, \u2018didone\u2019,
    \u2018romantic\u2019) and systematically reduces their contrast one ends up with
    a grotesque sans. If one starts with letters created with a broad nib (translation
    stroke, \u2018humanist\u2019, \u2018garalde\u2019, \u2018renaissance\u2019) and
    similarly reduce the contrast one ends up with a humanist sans.\" The difference,
    though subtle, is fundamental and readily perceivable from a contrast-styling
    point of view. \r\n\r\nIn the sans serif, history is reversed: the first sans
    serif typefaces are the grotesques or Modern sans. Bringhurst calls them Realist.
    Than there is the Geometric Modernist sans which takes the Realist sans and applies
    geometric rules of construction associated with the perfect circle and the square.
    Finally the Humanist sans substitutes a pre-Modern (in the Oldstyle / Transitional
    / Modern sense) contrast styling for the Modernist contrast styling of the traditional
    or Realist sans in some or all of the letters.\r\n\r\nThe descriptive protocols
    for contrast implicit in the cube provide an important handle on gauging formal
    features."
  created: '2008-08-06 12:53:53'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John, the Noordzij cube is interesting and informative, but I don't think
    it is \"Everything you need to know about the difference between \u2019grotesque\u2019
    and \u2019humanist\u2019 sans.\" \r\n\r\nHere are the lower case bold o's from
    Helvetica, Futura, and Myriad. These are usually taken as examples of Grotesque,
    Geometric, and Humanist, right?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Three
    o's--Helv, Fut, Myriad_6186.gif]\r\n.\r\nNow all of these have vertical stress.
    There is no evidence of the slanted stress here from the broad-nibbed pen, including
    in the \"humanist\" Myriad. \r\n\r\nBut you do see clearly in the outline the
    more squared o of the grotesque, the circular geometric, and the more strictly
    oval interior of Myriad--as I mentioned in my earlier post. And in the regular
    weight the exterior of Myriad is also a narrower oval, more similar to the interior.
    \ \r\n\r\nNow overall, I just don't think it is worth getting very exercised about
    these classifications because none of them is \"right\". They are just more or
    less helpful in different circumstances, and in shedding light on different aspects
    of design. It is the nature of innovation in design to break through neat categories,
    so I think the categories may be most useful to identify different aspects: stress,
    \ proportions, openness of counters, etc. and get an understanding of a design.
    But one 'right' classification? No.      "
  created: '2008-08-06 14:46:46'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I think of humanist sans faces being further towards the \"written\" rather
    than the \"constructed\" pole than other sans types. The aforementioned contrast
    styling and dynamic letter structure certainly push it that way. I would add that
    other details do, too. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/humanistsans_4444.gif]\r\n\r\nThe
    45-degree diagonals in Gill's Q tail and t top (among other letters) help to evoke
    the pen, for example. And the u having a stem implies a letter written with two
    strokes, not plotted out mechanically as in Futura.\r\n\r\nPerhaps it is a measure
    of the success of humanist sans faces' implication of \"writtenness\" that this
    thread started with the assumption that there is a written hand at their roots."
  created: '2008-08-06 15:41:57'
- author:
    name: Solt
    picture: 111762
  body: "\"I\u2019m looking for more information on the roots of Johnston\u2019s Underground,
    Frutiger, Syntax, etc. \"\r\n\r\non Syntax there is Erich Schulz-Anker\u2019s
    \"Formanalyse und Dokumentation einer serifenlosen Linearschrift auf neuer Basis:
    Syntax Antiqua\", a 20pp-brochure published by D. Stempel AG in 1969. as the title
    suggests, it\u2019s in German.\r\nin [[http://www.amazon.com/Fine-Print-Type-Magazine-Typography/dp/096072902X|Fine
    Print on Type]] there is an article by Sumner Stone, \"Hans Eduard Meier\u2019s
    Syntax Antiqua\"."
  created: '2008-08-06 16:10:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "To Bill Berkson: o is the least informative letter shape, and it is also
    the one in which axis is most likely to tend toward the vertical even in some
    typefaces with a slanted ductus. But slant is irrelevant to the contrast issue,
    since expansion model strokes can also be written at a slant (this is one of the
    characteristics of the Gabriola typeface that I showed at TypeCon): it just happens
    that they were not during the neo-classical and romantic periods in which they
    flourished and influenced typography.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nTo Bill Troop: you'll
    have to elaborate on what you find 'unconvincing' about the cube. It is a demonstration
    of visual relationships between shapes of greater and lesser contrast; as such,
    it enables you to 'see' the contrast patterns inherent in shapes with low contrast.
    But you can also do it yourself: start with a high contrast letter and systematically
    reduce the contrast to see what you come up with. If you start with a renaissance-style
    humanist minuscule, such as Arno Pro, you end up, not surprisingly, with a 'humanist
    sans'.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/eesans_6556.gif]\r\n\r\nIt has
    been a while since I read Johnston's account of the design of the London Transport
    letters, but I believe this was basically his approach: to start with a mental
    model of humanist letters and to reduce their contrast to produce a new style
    of sans serif.\r\n\r\n<em>The Aldine sans is not a thing in itself, but a very
    minor, very subtle variation of the Modern sans. </em>\r\n\r\nThe post-romantic
    or 'modern' sans popularised the style, most importantly by demonstrating how
    lowercase letters could convincingly be made, which earlier experiments in sans
    serif lettering had not managed. But I disagree that the 'humanist' sans is a
    variation per se of the post-romantic letter. It has a different underlying architecture.
    To some extent, the reason for that difference is moot, but the stroke contrast
    model allows one to say some meaningful things about the letterforms that vague
    historical or self-referential labels do not."
  created: '2008-08-09 06:21:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Oh, and this is something I really love, to which not one single talking-head
    in the <em>Helvetica</em> movie drew attention. The shape of the Helvetica lowercase
    a, which is one of the most distinctive characteristics of the whole typeface,
    is pure Didot expansion stroke.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/aasans_3574.gif]\r\n\r\nEven
    the dynamic of the top arch, the way it sags slightly on the right, is identical."
  created: '2008-08-09 06:36:01'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: So could you draw a truly monoline letter (that is, one that had not <em>low</em>
    contrast but rather <em>no</em> contrast) that read as "humanist"?
  created: '2008-08-09 07:07:11'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John, you're right that the o can be vertical when others are slanted stress.
    And that it's less informative--but look at how different they are, and how this
    'DNA' propogates through the design! \r\n\r\nBut my point was that Gerald proportions
    and shapes are also different, and these are reflected in 'humanist' designs.
    \r\n\r\nI would guess that you can find designs that have very little contrast,
    and vertical stress, but humanist proportions. Or larger contrast and Didone proportions.
    Or slanted stress and didone proportions etc. \r\n\r\nThe point is that the 'humanist'
    faces relate somehow to the gerald serif style, but may do so in different ways.
    My argument is that looking at several different factors--proportion, contrast,
    stress, etc., is more informative than labeling one 'humanist'. "
  created: '2008-08-09 13:04:59'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "John, the illustration for the a is marvellous. My problem is that my mindset
    was pretty much set by Tracy's retelling of the turn-Gill-into-Futura story. As
    all my books are in America, could you possibly look that up and tell us which
    characters had to be replaced? \r\n\r\nI'm less convinced by your e illustration.
    Those little dings that Robert likes to have poking out of his e's always put
    me in mind of a flasher in a raincoat."
  created: '2008-08-09 13:56:59'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Bill [B]: is <em>Gerald</em> a typo? The actual Vox designation is <em>Garalde</em>
    \u2014 combining the <em>Gar</em> of <em>Garamond</em> and the <em>ald</em> of
    <em>aldine</em>. This compares with <em>Didone</em>, which combines <em>Didot
    </em>and <em>Bodoni</em>.\r\n\r\nBill [T]: in Bringhurst\u2019s section on unserifed
    faces in <em>The Elements of Typographic Style</em> the single most convincing
    example of a humanist sans in the sense that John and I have been putting forward
    \u2014 a sans based on translation \u2014 is Volkler K\xFCster\u2019s 1988 <em>Today</em>.
    See the lowercase \u201Co\u201D and \u201Ce\u201D for intstances of a clearly
    humanist axis. The humanist \u2014 translation derived \u2014 axis is consistent
    throughout the lowercase.\r\n\r\nBringhursts calls this neo-humanist."
  created: '2008-08-10 14:02:39'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>It has been a while since I read Johnston\u2019s account of the design
    of the London Transport letters\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nJohn, do you happen to remember
    what that account has been republished in?"
  created: '2008-08-10 17:23:17'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Peter, please do not bring up Today Sans Serif again! I was the first and
    only person to write an article about it, and I was the one who tried to persuade
    Adobe to license it around 1996. As Fred Brady, the director of the type department
    at that time said, 'If you like Today, you're going to love Cronos.' (Search Google
    for the grotty details, some of which emerged on Typophile.)\r\n\r\nToday remains
    a special case -- the world's first sans superfamily (in spite of Martin Majoor's
    insolent claim to the contrary). If you look at the wonderful books that Scangraphic
    published to announce Today, you will see that K\xFCster very definitely was working
    with the forms of the Bembo typeface which he loved and had spent much loving
    time redigitizing for Scangraphic. \r\n\r\nI would argue, however, that K\xFCster's
    goal was to put as much of Bembo as he could into a sans serif <em>whilst remaining
    within the vernacular parameters established by the 19th century gothics</em>.
    These parameters are strict in my view, applying to many specific shapes, contrast,
    stroke weight, x-height, and more. \r\n\r\nHowever, it would be best to get his
    own, or Albert-Jan Pool's input on this. Last I heard, Albert-Jan was on vacation,
    so he might not be available for comment just now.\r\n\r\nAn even more extraordinary
    adventure to the extreme of what is possible with the fixed vernacular we have
    been handed down from the 19th century is Unger's magnificent typeface Argo. \r\n\r\nK\xFCster
    looked at Bembo; Unger looked at Electra and Swift, which is his contemplation
    of Electra. (This is not strictly my view; it is Unger's view which I have direct
    from him; Carl Crossgrove, my duenna, has been seeking confirmation from Interpol;
    we hourly await his results.) None of these people seem to have been interested
    in nibs, broad-based or otherwise, or any of these other far-fetched rationalizations.
    And Frutiger, as Nick Shinn has helped me to understand, is an absolutely unique
    event in type that really does represent an original break with the past. \r\n\r\nOne
    of the problems with this thread is that everybody is trying to discover things
    about typefaces without asking the people who designed them what was going on
    in their heads at the time. Since so many of the decisive players are still around,
    why not give them a call? "
  created: '2008-08-10 20:06:04'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Mea culpa! I find that I am guilty of recklessly using the term humanist
    in my articles on Today Sans (1997) and Argo. However, at least I defined the
    term as I was using it. \r\n\r\n' ... sans serifs based on humanist models--an
    important concept which means that the letter-forms are based on the proportions
    that grow out of Italian Renaissance typefaces like Bembo.'\r\n\r\nBad, but at
    least it's there. \r\n\r\nHere's what I quoted from Albert-Jan's lyrical article
    in Norton's Types Best Remembered/Forgotten (with permission, my duenna):\r\n\r\n<em>It
    disobeyed all of the rules that I had thought to be appropriate for such a sans
    serif design. It looked so irregular, with each character featuring its own peculiarities.
    To my eyes it was sparkling with detail in all of its elements. It was one big
    idiosyncrasy. I showed Volker my design and told him that I was striving for evenness
    and harmony by repeating as many forms as possible. Volker explained to me that
    he was doing exactly the opposite in order to achieve the same goal. This was
    how I started to get a visual grip on the interaction of readability and legibility,
    and this is why for me Today Sans Serif is best to be remembered.</em>\r\n\r\nIt's
    interesting that Albert-Jan mentions readability and legibility here . . . . .
    and highlights idiosyncrasy. In his article as printed in Norton, there are some
    interesting bits about Frutiger but I don't have the book with me."
  created: '2008-08-10 20:22:51'
- author:
    name: Jan Middendorp
    picture: 110288
  body: "<cite>Today remains a special case \u2014 the world\u2019s first sans superfamily
    (in spite of Martin Majoor\u2019s insolent claim to the contrary). </cite>\r\n\r\nBill,
    you said that twice now; you've made your point but I don't think it's a very
    good one. I don't think  Martin ever claimed Scala Sans to be a \"superfamily\".
    Although, as far as I know, the term has not yet been precisely defined, it was
    coined to describe multi-style families that  have compatible sans serif and serif
    versions, and often a third style such as the semi-serif (TheMix) in Thesis or
    the slab serif (confusingly called Nexus Mix) in Martin's latest superfamily Nexus.
    \ Today Sans was never a superfamily, because it was always   only a Sans; unless
    you want to claim the term to have  the meaning you choose it to have,  of course.
    \r\nAs for the uniqueness of  your article:  you mention Albert-Jan Pool  --  he
    wrote about Today Sans in Types Best Remembered, doesn't that count?"
  created: '2008-08-10 20:28:45'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Hello, Jan, here:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typotheque.com/articles/interview_martin_majoor.html\r\n\r\nMajoor
    states,\r\n\r\n'I get my inspiration from certain (and sometimes very old) traditions
    in type design, but at the same time I am \u2018inspired\u2019 by the possibilities
    and speed of today\u2019s software. Small capitals come from an old tradition,
    but designing something like Scala Sans Italic Caps was not done before. Old style
    figures have an even longer tradition, but making them for a sans serif (like
    in Scala Sans and in Seria Sans) was only done before by Paul Renner for his Futura.'\r\n\r\nNeither
    of these statements is true. Small caps and italic small caps were in Today and
    so of course were OSF. It's practically inconceivable that Majoor (or Bilak) was
    unaware of Today Sans at the time this interview was published, and in the meantime,
    it has been up on the web for years without correction. Today included every possible
    typographical feature and refinement, including two optical sizes and of course
    inktraps in the text size.\r\n\r\n>As for the uniqueness of your article: Albert-Jan
    Pool wrote lovingly about Today Sans in Types Best Remembered.\r\n\r\nYes, Jan,
    that's why I said it was a quotation. It was Albert-Jan who provided me with the
    Scangraphic books and all the background information; he also reviewed the article
    closely. What is your interest in uniqueness per se here? It was a 1200 page article
    with 120 given over to Albert-Jan -- more or less. I'm certainly not claiming
    it as serious writing about type. It was for a Desktop Publishing magazine and
    was designed to get people to buy Today Sans. I was not writing for type designers,
    who don't as a rule buy much type. I once encouraged Carol Twombl(e?)y to buy
    Miller, and I think she did, but that's exceptional. \r\n\r\n(I wonder if Majoor
    is ever going to fix those single quotation mark kerns?)"
  created: '2008-08-10 20:46:49'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Mea culpa again, but I introduce a quote from my embarrassing article on
    Argo, because it raises the issue that a humanist typeface (how can Argo not be
    humanist?) is not necessarily based -- at all -- on renaissance letterforms -
    - thus making nonsense of the terminology yet again: \r\n\r\n<em>Virtually all
    previous humanist sans serifs are based on the letterforms of classic Renaissance
    typefaces like Bembo and Garamond. Not so Argo. Unger is a great admirer of the
    American designer W.A. Dwiggins (____-____), whose text typefaces Caledonia and
    Electra were amongst the most widely used and highly esteemed in American publishing
    from the 1930s up until the 1960s. Neither typeface made a particularly convincing
    transition into either photo or digital type--they remain at their best in good
    metal settings. That is perhaps the main reason why they are no longer so popular.
    Unger has utilized some of the best of Dwiggins's ideas, and successfully applied
    them to digital type. With Argo, Unger decided, essentially, to make a sans serif
    out of Electra. The result is fascinating.</em>"
  created: '2008-08-10 20:51:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/NewWoman_5882.jpg]\r\nI may have mentioned
    this before, but it seems pertinent to repeat.\r\nWhen I designed Shinn Sans in
    the early 1980s, it seemed to me that most available sans serif faces were not
    very chirographic.\r\nAt the time, that wasn't the term I would have used, and
    I can't recall whether I was aware of the term \"humanist\" either.\r\nBut I had
    been practising calligraphy, and it seemed to me that it would be interesting
    to take some of the chirographic features I had noticed in one or two faces--in
    particular some of the Gill characters such as \"a\" of course, and go a bit further
    in that direction.\r\nI was influenced by Bernhard Gothic, very much aware in
    my studies of type history that this was the anti-Futura, with much less severe
    and reductive geometry. Kabel, Metro and Syntax, for some reason, were not influences.
    \r\n\r\nPerhaps it comes down to intuitive responses, and personal circumstances.
    I felt an affinity to the Bernhard shapes, had been doing a lot of calligraphy,
    and at the time developing my first sans serif along similar lines seemed like
    a reasonably unusual, and therefore worthwhile pursuit."
  created: '2008-08-10 21:57:06'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: Lots of interesting stuff in that face. What I like is that it's one of those
    faces where you do a lot of things you would never do when you knew better. On
    another plane, that's what van Krimpen did with Lutetia. We're now all so incredibly
    sophisticated about type that it's easy to poke holes in a typeface like this
    - - but I must say I like it, and it's undeniable that it works for its purpose
    - - which is what a typeface is supposed to do.
  created: '2008-08-10 22:21:26'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Jan - - this Q/A (Bilak/Majoor) occurs in that same link:\r\n\r\n<em>Q Seria
    is obviously based on the skeleton of Scala, have you considered making this connection
    more pronounced by naming it for example \u2018Scala Literary\u2019, or do you
    want people to think of it as a completely different font?\r\n\r\nA First of all:
    Seria is not based on the skeleton of Scala, most characters were drawn from scratch.
    Secondly Seria is a completely different font. Look a little bit closer and you
    will wonder why you asked me this question in the first place. Asking a question
    like this to Gerard Unger would make more sense, it must be said that most of
    Unger\u2019s typefaces are derived from each other, changing the forms slightly
    and replacing the form of the serifs. I don\u2019t believe in this way of designing
    a typeface, maybe in the same way as I don\u2019t believe in attaching serifs
    to a sans.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat is that remark, if not insolent, considering that
    Unger's designs are overwhelmingly the most successful Dutch typefaces of the
    20th/21st centuries? He's dissing him completely! "
  created: '2008-08-10 23:28:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Craig Eliason: <em>So could you draw a truly monoline letter (that is, one
    that had not low contrast but rather no contrast) that read as \u201Chumanist\u201D?</em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    because what would be retained and would give the letter its 'humanist' character
    would be the proportion and shape.\r\n\r\nWhich leads nicely to Bill Berkson's
    comment: <em>But my point was that [Garalde] proportions and shapes are also different,
    and these are reflected in \u2019humanist\u2019 designs.</em>\r\n\r\nBut what
    is the origin of those proportions and shapes? It is the translation stroke contrast
    of the renaissance formal manuscript bookhand. This of course is parachirographically
    interpreted by punchcutters, is translated into a new medium, but the most distinctive
    characteristic of these shapes -- when contrasted with those derived from the
    expansion stroke contrast of the romantic period -- is their open forms, which
    are evident in both manuscript hand and type. The relatively closed forms of the
    romantic and post-romantic types (Didot, Bodoni, Walbaum, the various Scotch Romans)
    -- which is translated into post-romantic sans serif types -- are interesting
    because they are not <em>determined</em> by the split nib, but they are enabled
    by it and they become a primary characteristic of the late 18th and 19th century
    styles, again in both formal writing and in type.\r\n\r\nSo I'm basically in agreement
    with you, Bill, about the contribution of the shape and proportion of humanist
    serif letters to the character of 'humanist' sans, but want to draw attention
    to where those shapes and proportions came from.\r\n\r\nThe proof of the pudding
    is in trying to write a Scotch Roman letter such as a lowercase e with a broad
    nib pen and a fixed translation stroke (a really skilled calligrapher could fake
    it reasonably well with some rotation and/or a nasta'liq lift). The lower right
    terminal will always end up heavy instead of the characteristic hairline of the
    Scotch type, which is only possible in the expansion stroke model. To avoid this
    heaviness with a translation stroke, you have to avoid closing the shape, hence
    the open forms of the humanist bookhand, which become the open forms of the renaissance
    typefaces, and then become the open forms of the 'humanist' sans serif types."
  created: '2008-08-11 06:21:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: James, if I recall correctly, the development of Johnston's London Transport
    type is well recounted in the biography written by his daughter, Piscilla Johnston.
    But it is a long time since I read it.
  created: '2008-08-11 06:24:24'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Bill, after citing Majoor's \"it must be said that most of Unger's typefaces
    are derived from each other\", you write:\r\n<cite>What is that remark, if not
    insolent, considering that Unger's designs are overwhelmingly the most successful
    Dutch typefaces of the 20th/21st centuries? He's dissing him completely!</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    fact that Unger's typefaces are successful does not render Majoor's description
    wrong, nor does it forbid criticism. If Majoor does not like the way Unger designs,
    he is free to say so. Other people may not like Majoor's method of constructing
    letters. Different designers, different approaches, different opinions.\r\n\r\nYou
    write (in order of appearance):\r\n<cite>you will see that K\xFCster very definitely
    was working with the forms of the Bembo typeface</cite> [...] <cite>I would argue,
    however, that K\xFCster's goal was to put as much of Bembo as he could into a
    sans serif</cite> [...] <cite>K\xFCster looked at Bembo</cite>\r\n\r\nDo you refer
    to images given in the Scangraphic specimen (showing Bembo, Today and Gill Sans)?
    These are for comparison, to locate the <em>style</em> of Today, in relation to
    renaissance antiqua, as represented by Bembo, and to Gill Sans. The caption points
    out that renaissance antiqua and Today share a stroke contrast as created by writing
    with a broad nib pen, while Gill Sans is constructed. K\xFCster is a very good
    writer, he does not need an existing typeface to create a new one, as your suggest.\r\n\r\nThe
    other part of one of the above remarks is obviously wrong:\r\n<cite>I would argue,
    however, that K\xFCster's goal was to put as much of Bembo as he could into a
    sans serif whilst remaining within the vernacular parameters established by the
    19th century gothics. These parameters are strict in my view, applying to many
    specific shapes, contrast, stroke weight, x-height, and more.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    cannot find the \"whilst\" part reflected in Today. It is antiqua in sans clothes,
    this means: it does have antiqua shapes, contrast (though low in the upright weights),
    x-height, and what's more important: proportions. No vernacular parameters."
  created: '2008-08-11 11:59:00'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Karsten, you'll discover what the vernacular parameters are if, as all of
    us have done, you take the serifs off a face like Bembo (or better yet, something
    like Romanee, which is lower in contrast), and realize that the typeface is completely
    unusable.\r\n\r\nRelatively high x-height is one of the crucial components of
    the sans vernacular I am talking about (one of the reasons why Futura is not much
    used for text today is that the high-x-height versions, designed for text setting
    in metal, have never been digitized). Other parameters are low contrast and absence
    of stress. \r\n\r\nHere are some ghastly examples of experimental work I did in
    1993 and then abandoned after a day or two because it seemed clear that the literal
    approach I was testing was never going to work. With apologies (not least for
    no fitting!) and also with the idea that such mistakes are often the best way
    to learn:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/romanee sans snip 30 pt_5236.GIF]\r\n\r\nand
    \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/romanee sans italic snip 30 pt_5669.GIF]"
  created: '2008-08-11 15:02:59'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">But what is the origin of those proportions and shapes?\r\n\r\nJohn, I grant
    you that the shapes are influenced by the broad pen. But I suspect that the narrower
    widths (compared to Didone) and the proportions of the Carolingian miniscule are
    not dictated by the pen, but other factors. One is economy--fitting more text
    on a page, and the other is readability. \r\n\r\nI acknowledge that this is one
    of my pet theories--that faces are based on the oval rather than circle are inherently
    more readable--but I do think it is a factor.\r\n\r\nI don't see why the broad
    pen dictates the narrower letter forms. I think they could have done wider if
    they wanted to. \r\n\r\nI am guessing that with the Didone style, these shapes
    are more dominated by aesthetic considerations, rather than originally being derived
    from writing of extended text. That is, most written text in this period was written
    in cursive, and hand writing and lettering in roman was really more for display.
    The Didone forms are unquestionably very elegant,  but in many versions I and
    many others have felt that they are less readable for text. "
  created: '2008-08-11 17:14:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...inherently more readable...</em>\r\n\r\nThat wasn't what Didot et
    al were thinking.\r\nHere's what Austin had to say in 1819 about the coming of
    the modern (didone):\r\n\r\n\u201CThe modern ... printing type at present in use
    was introduced by the French, about twenty years ago: the old shaped letters being
    capable of some improvement, it was judged expedient to re-model the alphabet
    to render them more agreeable to the improved state of printing\u2026\u201D \r\n\r\nSo,
    new, high-tech printing made the old-style unpalatable.\r\nThose were revolutionary
    times. How quaint, irrelevant, and unreadable the old style must have seemed,
    and even a few words would have tormented the reader with the burden of centuries.\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2008-08-11 18:19:35'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "'This of course is parachirographically interpreted by punchcutters' ...\r\n\r\nOf
    course.\r\n\r\nDoes mean we need a paragnost onboard, a 'person credited with
    paranormal powers of obtaining knowledge' such as the meaning of newly invented
    words?\r\n\r\nNot to mention what is being practised here,\r\n\r\nchirognomy,
    'the alleged art or science of estimating character by inspection of the hand',\r\n\r\nthis
    alleged art or science to be performed by regulated chirosophers ('learned in
    the subject of the hand'), or even chirosophists (who practice sleight-of-hand),
    resulting in the last extreme, in chiromachy (hand-to-hand combat), an ancestral
    art of the flame.\r\n\r\n<em>I</em> haven't invented <em>any</em> of these words."
  created: '2008-08-11 18:32:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I guess metachirography sounds too much like a certain typeface...
  created: '2008-08-11 18:39:47'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Nick, I completely agree that what the Didots were doing had everything to
    do with improved printing (hairlines being possible in mass printing) and very
    little to do with anything else. It's notable that for the Didots, everything
    had to be high contrast, whilst for Walbaum and to a lesser extent for Prillwitz,
    display sizes of type could have dazzling contrast but text sizes must have considerably
    lower contrast. 'What attracts attention immediately and only for a few moments'
    vs 'What can comfortably be read over a period of hours' -- both embodied in metal
    Walbaum, and digitally in the difference between Berthold's Walbaum Standard (text)
    and the inaptly named Walbaum Book (display). \r\n\r\nThis happens over an incredibly
    short time; Vafflard's transitional premiere maniere type comes into use about
    1783 (transitional according to Updike; Aldine according to Unger) (www.typophile.com/node/47453
    for examples and a cite to Unger); by 1789, the Didots already have fully developed
    their ideas about modern type. So all it takes is six years. (Also see Veyrin,
    cited probably by Unger.) \r\n\r\nI don't believe this has got anything to do
    with chirography, but perhaps I am too influenced by early writers such as Morison
    and Updike. Nor should I really be speaking since I really don't know anything
    about it. But Hudson once admired my hand, the g in particular, and I have been
    dreadfully conceited ever since. It's all his fault!"
  created: '2008-08-11 19:02:10'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'If parachirography is, more or less, ''along parallel lines with the scribal''
    then metachirography, the permutation of the scribal into type, could perfectly
    describe what was happening in late 15th century Italy, the bartering of script
    for the genuinely typographical. '
  created: '2008-08-11 19:10:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: The term parachirographic was introduced by Peter Enneson -- on the ATypI
    member discussion list I believe -- to qualify the relationship of type design
    to writing and to get beyond notions of 'chirographic type design' (I had already
    rejected 'calligraphic' as an adjective since calligraphy implies writing as art
    not as text). I believe that almost all type design is parachirographic in one
    way or another -- which is not to say that it must be so --, while very little
    type design is purely chirographic (implying direct reproduction in type of handwritten
    forms). In parachirographic type design, the structure and characteristics of
    written forms, as derived from gesture and tool, are referenced but are modified
    by the designer to achieve either stylistic or technical goals (adapting shapes
    for size-specific designs is an obvious example). I've found it a useful term
    if one wants to be reasonably precise in characterising different design processes.
  created: '2008-08-11 20:42:08'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>Relatively high x-height is one of the crucial components of the
    sans vernacular I am talking about .... Other parameters are low contrast and
    absence of stress.</em>\r\n\r\nThe 'absence of stress' is a function of low contrast;
    in fact, there are few designs with a complete absence of stress, since there
    are few designs with a complete lack of contrast. As soon as you have any contrast
    at all, you introduce stress, however minimal or even optically unapparent. Why
    are almost all sans serif types low contrast? I think basically because that's
    the only way you can make stable letters with straight, serifless stems. Once
    the serifs are gone, the thin stems become unstable, they either need to be flared
    as in Optima, or they need to be made heavier. If you make them heavier, you start
    to close up the inside of the letter, so you compensate by making the thick stems
    lighter, and hey presto you have a low contrast letter.\r\n\r\nThe x-height issue
    is an interesting one. I think it is worth noting that, prior to the revival of
    renaissance type styles in the 20th century, x-heights had, on average, been getting
    larger for a period of 250 years. After Garamond, they could hardly have gotten
    smaller! By the time Scotch Roman and 'Egyptian' types develop in the 19th century,
    their x-height is pretty large, so there is a direct precursor in serif type to
    the large x-height of the post-romantic sans. There is also a practical consideration
    that arises in the Egyptian slab serif style and which applies also to sans: once
    you start increasing the weight of thin strokes to reduce overall contrast, you
    need to make room for them vertically. This is especially the case for letters
    like a and e, in which the only way to keep the counters open as the stroke weight
    is increased is to make them taller. Although 'humanist' letterforms are typically
    more open, they are also subject to this condition when their stroke contrast
    is reduced, and so they share a similarly large x-height in their sans guise."
  created: '2008-08-11 21:05:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Didot_4669.jpg]\r\nThis is a pocket book
    printed by the Didots in 1800, by stereotype.\r\nThe text is 10 on 12, and the
    stock is a very creamy-coloured laid paper.\r\nWhile there have always been typographers
    who have played up the sparkle of the didone style, and that is certainly the
    20th century meme, it's not the impression one gets from reading this--although
    the quality of typography is nonetheless sharp and precise.\r\nWhat is most striking
    is the exquisite <em>mise en page.</em> It's very hard not to be captivated by
    just how perfect everything about the book is. That first line of text breaks
    so perfectly...<em>de rigueur.</em> The attention to detail--everything working
    together meticulously--holds one's attention, assures its readability.\r\n\r\nThe
    overall effect is pointedly anti-chirographic. The cool, understated neo-classicism
    of the layout has the quality of ancient Roman lapidary inscriptions. At the same
    time, the neatness of the type's impression has the quality of high-tech engineering,
    not the pen. One finds the same fusion of ancient and modern in the origins of
    the sans serif, contemporary, so it would appear to be a driving force. \r\n\r\nWhen
    the pendulum swung the other way later in the 19th century, the context was a
    Morrisonian disgust with industrialism. No humanist sans serif just then, as the
    sans genre itself was too tainted by its association with the modern world. When
    modernism became acceptable again, c.1930, there was really no call for an organic,
    chirographic-looking sans serif, as that rather defeated the purpose of the new
    modernity. So when did it become acceptable for a sans serif to overtly reference
    chirography? \r\n\r\nWell, I don't think the pioneering \"humanist\" faces did
    that. They were referencing the organic and hand-made, but not necessarily the
    pen. Although they may have employed forms that are chirographic, that was incidental.
    Consider Eras. It was originally designed in the 1960s, and has never been touted
    as a humanist face, as far as I am aware. If anything, the sophistication of its
    drawing gave it a very sleek and streamlined up-to-date look.\r\n\r\nSorry James,
    I must echo Bill's first post, that the \"development of sans serif humanist type\"
    is a pretty weak and haphazard concept, prior to the influence of Gerrit Noordzij.
    Probably originating as a convenient term of categorization for a few odds and
    ends, rather than anything more purposeful. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-11 22:19:01'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Who is James? Is James John? \r\n\r\nJohn, I love your latest post - - ingenious.
    However, I cling to my position at least as a historical position. It has been
    better stated largely by Nick. Nick also makes a point I was about to make, '\u201Cdevelopment
    of sans serif humanist type\u201D is a pretty weak and haphazard concept, prior
    to the influence of Gerrit Noordzij.'\r\n\r\nIn my words, whatever the merits
    of my position on past typefaces, I accept that going forward there is a great
    deal more sophistication in the field and that the rules henceforth could well
    be different. I propose caution when applying contemporary knowledge, taste, attitudes
    to historical phenomena. \r\n\r\nThat leaves us with the question of how to classify
    Argo. Or even something like Scala. Take the sharply diagonal humps on m and n.
    Do they remind you of pen strokes? They remind me of the same gesture in one of
    Monotype's early metal Century cuts more than anything else. I see the affect
    as an industrial era, a late Victorian fillip, not as a questing for the pen.
    I have always loved that mannerism, and longed to employ it somewhere, but who
    wants to be accused of stealing from Scala, which now effectively 'owns' the form,
    however it was arrived at? Also, because I knew the form well before I ever saw
    Scala, I naturally inferred that it must come from that particular typeface. But
    it could have come from plenty of other sources, not excluding the pen."
  created: '2008-08-12 01:21:29'
date: '2008-08-04 23:43:29'
node_type: forum
title: Where are the calligraphic origins of Humanist Sans type?

---
