---
author:
  name: nicholasgross
  picture: 111028
body: "G'day folks,\r\n\r\nI've just been asked today about supplying a pdf of a historical
  journal which I produce so that it can be placed online on an academic database.
  I wonder if any of you have come across this in your line of work. First a bit of
  background: from what I understand, most foundries are OK with font embedding in
  pdfs which are publicly distributed as long as they are set to print and preview
  and are not editable. However, if they are being offered for sale they become a
  commercial product and an additional embedding license needs to be purchased. Three
  questions:\r\n\r\n1. Are my assumptions about pdfs correct, (I guess most of my
  fonts are from ITC, Monotype and Adobe)?\r\n2. From what I can tell, someone is
  not able to edit a pdf unless they have the fonts installed locally on their systems,
  do I need to apply additional security settings to pdf articles to prevent changing
  the document? In the past this has caused headaches with uploading content to the
  web.\r\n3. Do articles or journals which are placed on academic databases like EBSCO
  or Informit count as commercial products? As far as I know the person submitting
  the journal isn't so much selling their journal as getting a small royalty (or copyright
  fee?) for each journal downloaded.\r\n\r\nthanks, in advance for any help\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n
  \ "
comments:
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "The best thing to do is to read the EULA of the fonts you're planning to
    use.\r\n\r\nOn the technical side, the security settings of a PDF document are
    a separate matter from the embedding permissions of the fonts you may use in it.\r\n\r\nIf
    a font has Preview & Print embedding, it will be possible to embedded it in a
    document, but it won't be possible to edit the text of that document. You can,
    however, change other aspects of the document (e.g. page size, number of pages)
    if the security settings of the document so allow.\r\n\r\nIf a font has Editable
    embedding, it will be possible to embedded it in a document and it will be possible
    to edit the text of that document. Depending on how the document was created,
    you may or may not need to have the font installed in the system to edit the document
    and maintain its fidelity re. fonts. The ability of editing the document will
    still be dependent on its security settings. If the document only allows printing,
    you won't be able to change it, even if the fonts used in it have Editable embedding
    permissions."
  created: '2008-08-06 02:20:33'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "Thanks Miguel!\r\n\r\nSo I guess it sounds like the pdf embedding security
    is taken care of on the software side of things and I don't necessarily need to
    worry about locking down pdfs further with security settings.\r\n\r\nYes, reading
    the EULA should provide all the answers but I find them quite ambiguous, that's
    my reason for seeking further advice.\r\n\r\ncheers mate\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-06 02:38:13'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: <a href="http://www.fontembedding.com/local/documents/EULA-embedding.pdf">This
    doc,</a> at www.fontembedding.com covers the current situation for some foundries,
    but the EULAs you agreed to when you licensed  your fonts might not be the same
    as the ones now being offered, so as Miguel says, there's no real substitute for
    reading the EULA!
  created: '2008-08-06 04:06:41'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Software manufacturers, including font foundries, could resolve a LOT of
    the mystery of the EULA, by NOT marketing their wares as purchasable items as
    opposed to licensed items. I don't recall ever seeing \"license now\" in regard
    to the point of sale. But I just did leave the Adobe web site where it says \"Buy.\"
    I think most folks don't realize they are only licensing software rather than
    owning. Most don't bother to read the EULA and don't understand there are restrictions
    on their \"purchase.\" The BSA has done a remarkable job in protecting the rights
    of its members but I cannot find on their site anything about the problem of the
    uninformed or misinformed \"licenser.\" Probably best kept under the rug. \r\n\r\nI
    asked three students about this tonight and none of them realized that they did
    not own the software they \"bought.\" Though manufacturers are quite righteous
    in their EULA policy, it is somewhat mystifying why they are reluctant to inform
    the \"buying\" public about it up front. Likely, because they prefer the sale,
    and the sale might be hampered if the buyer thought twice about the idea of licensing.
    Disagree or Agree. Click the right button to proceed with \"installation.\" Often
    though, especially when there is a physical product, this is after the \"buyer\"
    has submitted payment. It is not the consumer's fault that digital material cannot
    be adequately protected, and licensing is a deceptive practice to get around this
    problem.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2008-08-06 09:38:00'
- author:
    name: David W. Goodrich
  body: "charles_e raised precisely this problem a couple of weeks ago in a discussion
    of web fonts ([[www.typophile.com/node/46896]]).  There he described his having
    \"recommended to publishers in the past that they not use certain foundries' fonts\"
    based on strictures in their EULAs.\r\n\r\nI'd love to be corrected, but it seems
    to me that the \"Internal/Business\" embedding in fontembedding.com's chart, at
    least under the terms of Monotype's current license (and Linotype's now-similar
    version), precludes publishing in an online academic database without a \"special\"
    license.\r\n\r\nThe powers that be apparently prefer to ignore the issue.  For
    example, the National Endowment for the Humanities convened a conference on \"Supporting
    Digital Scholarly Editions\" whose report manages nothing more useful than \"there
    seemed to be a consensus in one group at least that ... digital and print editions
    would look identical\" ([[www.virginiafoundation.org/NEH%20Workshop%20Report%20FINAL-3.pdf]],
    p. 6).  Equally futile is searching for \"typeface\" or \"font\" in blogs on electronic
    publishing such as [[www.futureofthebook.org/blog/]] and [[www.escholarlypub.com/digitalkoans/]].
    \ Or check out the \"Publisher Guidelines\" PDF for Project Muse, whose mission
    is to put scholarly journals online.\r\n\r\nIt is not hard to imagine scholarly
    articles becoming hostage to the EULAs for the typeface in which their initial
    publication was set, either to retain page breaks (thus ensuring that citations
    by page number remain valid) or to preserve slightly unusual diacritics.  All
    in all, not a happy situation.\r\n\r\nDavid"
  created: '2008-08-06 17:51:19'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "True.\r\n\r\nIt really does seem to be an obscure part of publishing knowledge,
    I get blank looks and/or disbelief that it could actually be that way when I bring
    it up, even from an expert in copyright. What I'd like in a EULA is instead of,
    or in addition to, obscure language buried in a long long document is upfront
    simple language guidelines when you buy, or if you've inherited a bunch of fonts
    like I have, prominently displayed on a website for example in a FAQ, instead
    of being buried in the legal or terms and conditions section\r\n\r\nI have to
    say I just don't understand and have never understood the internal/business thing.
    Does that preclude putting pdfs up on the web for free download? In my experience
    and my email conversations with folks at Monotype, it seems that the issue is
    if you charge for your electronic document; if it's a commercial product but I'm
    still not sure. But it seems strange to deem an academic article a commercial
    product. From Monotype:\r\n\r\n <cite> \u201CPersonal or Internal Business Use\u201D
    shall mean Use of the Font Software for your customary personal or internal business
    purposes and shall not mean any distribution whatsoever of the Font Software or
    any component or Derivative Work thereof. \u201CPersonal or Internal Business
    Use\u201D shall not include any Use of the Font Software by persons that are not
    members of your immediate household, your authorized employees, or your authorized
    agents. All such household members, employees and agents shall be notified by
    you as to the terms and conditions of the Agreement and shall agree to be bound
    by it before they can have Use of the Font Software </cite>\r\n\r\n<cite> 6.  \u201CDerivative
    Work\u201D shall mean binary data based upon or derived from Font Software (or
    any portion of Font Software) in any form in which such binary data may be recast,
    transformed, or adapted including, but not limited to, binary data in any format
    into which Font Software may be converted. </cite>\r\n\r\n<cite> 9.  \u201CCommercial
    Product\u201D as used herein shall mean an electronic document or data file created
    by Use of the Font Software which is offered for distribution to the general public
    (or to some subset of the general public) as a commercial product in exchange
    for a separate fee or other consideration. By way of illustration and not by way
    of limitation, an electronic book or magazine distributed for a fee shall be considered
    a Commercial Product; a document distributed in connection with a commercial transaction
    in which the consideration is unrelated to such document (for example, a business
    letter, a ticket for an event, or a receipt for purchase of tangible goods such
    as clothing) shall not be considered a Commercial Product </cite>\r\n\r\nIs a
    pdf a component or a derivative work? Is a free pdf newsletter on a website internal/business?
    Is a pdf academic article which attracts a copyright royalty fee a commercial
    product?\r\n\r\nthanks for your thoughts guys."
  created: '2008-08-07 00:58:04'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: "Hmm...<cite>\"an electronic book or magazine distributed for a fee shall
    be considered a Commercial Product\"</cite> ... seems pretty clear to me.\r\n\r\nSo,
    if this kind of use is important to you I'd say you have to factor in the cost
    of an extended license, if available, or shop elsewhere.\r\n\r\nBut, again, in
    the case of fonts you already have, the EULA that you agreed to when you licensed
    the font is what you need to read.*\r\n\r\n*Unless <em>that</em> EULA has a clause
    allowing the vendor to unilaterally alter the terms of the licence\u2014and, appallingly,
    some do!"
  created: '2008-08-07 01:48:30'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "The thing is I'm not shopping anywhere, I already have the fonts,  but no
    real record of how the fonts were bought and at what date, so I really only have
    the font info in suitcase to go off; current EULAs for the relevant companies,
    and an assurance from my previous boss that a font audit was carried out in the
    past. If I find myself in any kind of position to buy fonts in the future I will
    undoubtedly be buying the fonts with the friendliest EULAs I can find.\r\n\r\nBut,
    you're right, that commercial product reference does seem reasonably clear on
    distributing pdfs for a fee, but it just does seem like a different case with
    the academic database, where people aren't so much paying for the individual articles
    but paying a much smaller copyright/royalty fee that doesn't really reflect the
    cost of the publication. Perhaps this is splitting hairs.\r\n\r\nI also have trouble
    deciphering the table at fontembedding.com: does this mean that Adobe don't make
    the same stipulation between internal/business and commercial products? This may
    just solve the problem as the journal in question is set in Adobe Garamond from
    memory."
  created: '2008-08-07 03:20:11'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: "Adobe's terms are very good in this regard.\r\n\r\nSee here:\r\nhttp://www.adobe.com/type/browser/legal/embeddingeula.html\r\nand
    here:\r\nhttp://www.adobe.com/type/browser/info/embedding.html\r\n\r\nI haven't
    noticed any \"exclusions by purpose\" if you like,  in Adobe's embedding terms.
    \r\n\r\nSee this as well:\r\nhttp://www.adobe.com/type/browser/legal/pdfs/FontFAQ.pdf\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-07 03:45:29'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: You can use system fonts without embedding them. If you look at your system
    fonts carefully you will find out that there is awesome type that everyone have
    on their computers. Very good to be used on a project like yours.
  created: '2008-08-07 19:01:40'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "Thanks Andr\xE9,\r\n\r\nHm... that may be an option for designing for the
    future, it would require obviously re-setting existing work. And isn't it quite
    difficult to predict a font that everyone will have on their computers? Perhaps
    Times New Roman? I can imagine there are fonts that most people using PCs running
    Windows will have but what about mac users or Linux users? Web designers get away
    with it by specifying families of fonts and by the web page's ability to re-size
    to cope with differences in fonts. But academic journals have footnotes and index
    entries and so on which rely on things being really tied down.\r\n\r\nThanks for
    those links John,  I think that almost solves my current problem. It's interesting
    to note, though, that there is a difference between fonts Adobe creates and fonts
    Adobe licenses from other foundries in questions of embedding. For example my
    versions of Univers have a copyright which rests with Adobe but a trademark which
    goes back to Linotype/Monotype. Our company, which produces a journal which is
    sold online, have taken out an commercial product embedding license with Monotype
    for this (and another font) even though we probably initially licensed it in some
    way from Adobe. I find this kind of stuff really confusing.\r\n\r\n<cite> Copyright
    (c) 1987, 1991, 1993, 1994 Adobe Systems Incorporated.  All Rights Reserved.Univers
    is a trademark of Linotype-Hell AG and/or its subsidiaries. </cite>\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-08 00:52:30'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Adobe's license terms for fonts wholly owned by Adobe (plus those licensed
    from Bauer), versus fonts sub-licensed from other foundries, differ only in whether
    they one can use them for \"editable embedding.\"\r\n\r\nThat is, fonts licensed
    from Adobe - including those Adobe sublicensed from Linotype and Monotype - do
    NOT require some additional license for \"commercial embedding\" or anything like
    that.\r\n\r\nSo, if you licensed the original font(s) from Adobe, you wouldn't
    need to pay more money. If you licensed them from one of the foundries that has
    \"commercial embedding\" clauses in their EULA, then you'll have to see if what
    you want to do qualifies as \"commercial embedding.\"\r\n\r\n(I write this wearing
    my official Adobe hat.)\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-08-08 04:41:05'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "Wow thanks for an informed Adobe response Thomas,\r\n\r\nI'm assuming that
    is true for fonts that are bundled with programs as well as fonts that are separately
    licensed. This is interesting (or sickening) now as I might have encouraged our
    small and struggling company to pay (a fair bit of) money to license something
    we didn't actually need to license. On the post above is the verbatim info for
    the Univers weights and the following is the font info for most Palatino weights
    we've commercially licensed (apart from 'regular' which seems to be licensed to
    Apple):\r\n\r\n<cite> Copyright (c) 1985, 1987, 1989, 1990 Adobe Systems Incorporated.
    \ All Rights Reserved.Palatino is a trademark of Linotype AG and/or its subsidiaries.
    </cite>\r\n\r\nThese seem to be Adobe licensed fonts. It seems I need to go again
    back to Monotype. hm...\r\n\r\nthanks again"
  created: '2008-08-08 08:10:39'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "EULAs are what is known as adhesion contracts. Non-negotiable contracts that
    are largely punitive without providing the second party any benefit except to
    \"take it or leave it\" can be considered a violation of consumer statutory rights.
    Courts tend not to favor contracts seen as contra proferentem and most EULAs certainly
    fit the bill. It might benefit members here if the powers that be at Typophile
    take a pro-consumer stand on EULAs.\r\n\r\nGerald\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-08 19:20:06'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Nicholas: The copyright and trademark info in the font is not important here.
    The question is, who did you license the font from, and under what EULA? That
    exact same font (with the same copyright and trademark info) can be licensed from
    either Adobe or Linotype, under quite different license terms. And yes, Adobe's
    license terms are essentially the same for fonts bundled with applications, except
    for the number of computers you can use the font on.\r\n\r\nGerald: I'm not a
    lawyer, but the benefit of having and using the font seems like it is worth the
    restrictions placed by the license. If the user wasn't getting something out of
    the deal, I would think they wouldn't be willing to pay money for the privilege
    of agreeing to the EULA.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-08-08 23:05:04'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Thomas\r\n\r\nYes, but you are assuming folks read the EULA, most don't.
    Last one I read was 60 some pages long, and when I was finished I had no idea
    what my rights were. Manufacturers know, and some probably count on the fact,
    that no one is going to read the EULA in detail if at all. See the following reference
    (from Google, search EULA $1,000):\r\n\r\n[When Doug Heckman was installing a
    PC Pitstop program, he actually read the EULA. In it, he found a clause stating
    that he could get financial compensation if he emailed PC Pitstop. The result:
    a $1,000 check, and proof that people don't read EULAs (3,000 people before him
    didn't notice it).]\r\n\r\nIt's quite apparent that most folks don't know they
    are leasing because manufacturers are not up front about it. If they were folks
    just might not \"buy\" that proffered font.\r\n\r\nI just got an advertisement
    from a distributor of Adobe's offering a product with a Buy Now click button.
    I replied to the email asking if they were indeed selling the product or just
    a restrictive leasing arrangement. I think I am going to do that with every email
    solicitation I receive from now on.\r\n\r\nIt's not hard to resolve the problem
    folks are having, or to prevent the problems they might encounter. Write EULAs
    in plain language and inform the consumer prior to purchasing just what it is
    they are being sold.\r\n\r\nGerald\r\n\r\nInteresting tidbit: Anyone under the
    age of 18 is exempt from the contractual obligations of an EULA because they are
    not of legal age to enter into a binding contract. Which age group is responsible
    for most illegal copying of software?"
  created: '2008-08-09 01:27:34'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "Hm. Thanks for all the advice. I think I'm a bit stuck now not knowing exactly
    how we came by the font and lacking proper documentation. I might have to have
    a think about what to do. I still don't understand how the font would have Adobe
    details in the copyright info if the font is purely a Monotype/Linotype font.\r\n\r\nRe:
    EULAs I'm all for these to be upfront and written in plain language -- although
    it was great to see that Adobe for its part has tried to make things clear and
    easy. Those links from John Nolan were quite valuable ad pretty straightforward.\r\ncheers"
  created: '2008-08-13 02:52:25'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>I still don\u2019t understand how the font would have Adobe details
    in the copyright info if the font is purely a Monotype/Linotype font.</em>\r\n\r\nAdobe
    was responsible for converting the fonts to PostScript Type 1 (many years ago),
    therefore the copyright on the files. But Monotype/Linotype still have the ownership
    of the designs and the trademarked names."
  created: '2008-08-13 10:04:56'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "It's my understanding that in at least most such cases, our colleagues did
    considerable editing of the outlines and various cleaning up the fonts, as well
    as producing them in Type 1 format.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-08-13 22:02:07'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: Ah ha, that makes sense. Thanks again guys, this topic has been valuable to
    me, thanks for your generosity.
  created: '2008-08-14 00:59:18'
- author:
    name: guiyong
    picture: 115599
  body: "You will find many font resource at [Removed]. It is cool\r\n\r\n\r\n[Please
    note that it is frowned upon to name such sites here on Typophile. \u2014 Moderator]"
  created: '2008-08-16 04:41:43'
date: '2008-08-06 01:12:26'
title: Font embedding in pdf academic articles and other exciting tales.

---
