---
author:
  name: clashmore
  picture: 114206
body: "I'm working on my own logo, and I'd love to hear some of your thoughts. Designing
  for yourself is impossible, yadda yadda.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: clashmore
    picture: 114206
  body: "A few questions/thoughts that might help get the ball rolling:\r\n\r\n1.
    Everyone loves Gotham, and so do I. I'd like to keep the typeface for my name
    pretty neutral (probably a geometric sans). Do you think there's a better alternative?
    Is overuse of a typeface a reason to reconsider using it?\r\n\r\n2. What do you
    think about the size of the mark in relation to the type? Currently, the weight
    of the type is equivalent to the weight of the M's serifs.\r\n\r\n3. Kerning good?"
  created: '2008-08-08 09:29:31'
- author:
    name: all about seb
    picture: 110631
  body: "First off, I like your mark very much and have since you started using it
    as your avatar.\r\nSecondly, I wouldn't be too concerned about Gotham being overused
    - if you feel it fits, stick with it. \r\n2 suggestions:\r\n- maybe try a different
    placement for your name, it doesn't seem to glue right now.\r\n- Have you tried
    using a lower case 'c' in your name? \r\n\r\n/ Seb"
  created: '2008-08-08 09:44:49'
- author:
    name: Graham McArthur
    picture: 109915
  body: "1. Perhaps I shouldn't comment because I dislike Gotham greatly. Geometric
    sans are plain ugly to my eyes. I would stay with a sans face, but one with a
    bit more life and movement in it for my taste.\r\n2. I think the mark is too large,
    however I don't know what you are trying to achieve and so I can only make comments
    based on my own prejudices & personal preference. I believe there should be a
    bit more of a contrast between the two elements. Both are strong and dark and
    the overall feel is heavy - not that this a mad thing, it could be what you want.\r\n3.
    Letter spacing is fine."
  created: '2008-08-08 09:55:12'
- author:
    name: David
    picture: 114500
  body: "I would suggest a couple of tweaks:\r\nLine up the mid point of the cap height
    in the name with the centre of the circle in the 'r'.\r\nThen move the name much
    closer to the 'rM' mark, leave less than half the space you have now.\r\nKerning-wise,
    maybe the space between R and T in robert needs tightening just a bit.\r\nLower
    case 'c' definitely  worth a try.\r\n\r\nDK"
  created: '2008-08-08 11:21:42'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "What about running your name underneath? And as Graham suggests, play with
    the size of your name until there is some contrast. As I stated in your other
    thread I really like the mark.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-08-08 13:04:05'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: I really like the mark too, but I'm not superhot on the type (and I do like
    Gotham in general). as typerror just mentioned, I was going to suggest running
    the name underneath the mark as well.
  created: '2008-08-08 15:36:15'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "Have you tried it with the serifs on the mark thinner? Something about them
    being that thick bothers me.\r\n\r\nI really like the mark as a whole though.\r\n\r\n\r\npenn"
  created: '2008-08-08 16:51:25'
- author:
    name: clashmore
    picture: 114206
  body: "Thanks for all your comments.\r\n\r\n\r\n@seb: What's the protocol for McK
    names? Is there a hard and fast rule?\r\n\r\n@Graham: For me at least, the difference
    in styles between the mark and type is enough contrast (a rich, curvy Bodoni vs.
    a simple geometric sans). I also like the fact that there is something to tie
    the two together (the weight of the type and the weight of the mark's serifs).
    \r\n\r\n@David: I will definitely try that alignment. Sounds like it will work.
    I'll also look at tightening up the RT.\r\n\r\n@typerror: Ideally, I'd like to
    have both a vertical and horizontal version of the logo, so I will be looking
    into both. \r\n\r\n@chris: What about the type turns you off? Any suggestions?\r\n\r\n@penn:
    I see these really black Bodonis with super skinny serifs all over the place.
    I would also worry about having the logo fall apart at small sizes if I were to
    thin out the serifs. I'll give it a try, though.\r\n\r\n\r\nI'll post the results
    of the revisions. Thanks again to everyone who has helped out so far."
  created: '2008-08-08 20:32:53'
- author:
    name: clashmore
    picture: 114206
  body: I just posted the revisions up above, in the first post.
  created: '2008-08-08 21:16:24'
- author:
    name: all about seb
    picture: 110631
  body: "I like the top version with the name underneath, the name with a lower case
    'c' works nicely for me too.\r\nMaybe the mark needs to be nudged to the left
    slightly?\r\n\r\nStill not crazy about alignment of the name in the bottom version;
    have you tried aligning the baselines?\r\nThink it could work well.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-09 10:10:02'
- author:
    name: clashmore
    picture: 114206
  body: Some new options posted. Thoughts?
  created: '2008-08-11 03:05:57'
- author:
    name: EileenB
  body: 'It makes it extremely hard to follow the thread if you remove the original
    pictures. '
  created: '2008-08-11 04:07:20'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "<em>\"It makes it extremely hard to follow the thread if you remove the original
    pictures.\"</em>\r\n\r\nThe old ones aren't being removed, he's simply adding
    the new revisions as attachments as the top. the first attachment up there is
    the original, 2nd one is the 2nd, etc...\r\n\r\nMy favorites are the first of
    the second upload and the third of the third upload.\r\n\r\npenn"
  created: '2008-08-11 05:29:34'
- author:
    name: EileenB
  body: "I recall the day this thread appeared, and it had three attachments. Comments
    followed. Now, there are still three attachments. \r\n\r\nBut my point really
    is this - why NOT embed the new designs in the new post? "
  created: '2008-08-11 05:44:19'
- author:
    name: clashmore
    picture: 114206
  body: Nothing has been removed. There was one attachment to start with; now there
    are three.
  created: '2008-08-11 05:54:15'
- author:
    name: clashmore
    picture: 114206
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rmlogoforcritique2_4729.png][img:sites/default/files/old-images/rmlogoforcritique3_6567.png]\r\n\r\nThese
    are the two latest--the same ones attached above."
  created: '2008-08-11 05:56:16'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "The top over/under may be mechanically centered but to me, as Sebastian said,
    the rM could go to the left a bit. \r\n\r\nJust for grins, have you tried reducing
    the caps until they match the weight of the serifs... a subtle continuity/contrast
    may appear. I always try and create this kind of relationship when using type
    and lettering together.\r\n\r\nAlso, what about a sort of stair step. Dropping
    the name to below the serif of the M, and running to the right. That way you still
    have your horizontal but it is below... and maybe even extending the serif to
    run over the top of the name.\r\n\r\nJust quick thoughts Michael"
  created: '2008-08-11 15:58:15'
- author:
    name: clashmore
    picture: 114206
  body: "\"Just for grins, have you tried reducing the caps until they match the weight
    of the serifs\"\r\n\r\nNot sure I understand. That's what I've done already."
  created: '2008-08-11 18:09:48'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "Hate to be a party pooper here, but I'm going to do it anyway.\r\n\r\nI don't
    see any reason to use Gotham with that good-looking mark. Is it an attempt to
    complement with little contrast? Well, you've got conflict in extra bold versus
    light, conflict in sans versus serif, conflict in italic versus roman, conflict
    in upper/lower versus all uppercase. Frankly, the name just doesn't look at all
    like it belongs with the mark. I'd like to see you switch out the Gotham for something
    a little less conflicting."
  created: '2008-08-11 18:18:18'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "What I was saying was reduce the Robert McKenna until the stroke weight matches
    the weight of the serifs in the rM. It may not work but I thought it was worth
    a try. If you have already done it my screen is playing tricks on me.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-08-11 18:22:52'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Mr Koppa \r\nI view contrast a good thing. They play off of each other, set
    each other off, relate to each other and ultimately work as a unit as a result
    of their disparity.\r\n\r\nCarl Dair wrote of this and I have successfully used
    this design device for over two decades.\r\n\r\nIt is as natural as fire and ice,
    black and white, yin and yang, Mutt and Jeff!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-08-11 18:44:44'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "> <cite>I view contrast a good thing</cite>\r\n\r\nI've got no problem with
    contrast. However, in this case, it's too much for me. There's absolutely no relationship
    between the two, and that doesn't work for me. Seems like the unsolvable problem
    here is finding a way to get the two elements to come together as one. Could it
    be that they're repelling each other, for all or some of the reasons I mentioned
    above?\r\n\r\nBut, alas, I am not the authority, and surely there's some subjectivity
    in every critique.\r\n\r\nI can't be the only person here with this opinion. Am
    I?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-11 19:07:28'
- author:
    name: guiyong
    picture: 115599
  body: "I find your logo not so very exciting. You should maybe make dramatic effect
    in Photoshop for give more impact. After spend just a short period I have achieved
    this. You will maybe try even harder.\r\n\r\nGui\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logosuper_3600.jpg]"
  created: '2008-08-11 19:11:34'
- author:
    name: guiyong
    picture: 115599
  body: "I apologize for making \"double post\"  \r\n"
  created: '2008-08-11 19:13:40'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "*looking at picture above . . .\r\n\r\n. . . Oh God.\r\n\r\nWhy isn't the
    green \"Robert McKenna\" embossed too? I think you should've also used a stained
    glass filter.\r\n\r\n\r\npenn"
  created: '2008-08-11 19:18:55'
- author:
    name: guiyong
    picture: 115599
  body: 'I find with emboss "Robert McKenna" will not be able to read. This is important.
    With plastic wrap filter glass filter will not work. I only spend 6 minutes, Robert
    will make more work with this I''m certain. '
  created: '2008-08-11 19:41:25'
- author:
    name: analisa
    picture: 115565
  body: "I'm having a hard time deciding if guiyong's post is a joke or not. I hope
    it is.\r\n\r\nThe mark is beautiful and actually looking through all the revisions
    you've made, I like the very first lockup version the best. Although, I can see
    that there are problems with the alignment and compatibility the two elements.\r\n\r\nHave
    you considered that maybe the mark doesn't ever need to have your name next to
    it? It's strong on it's own. I think you could work it out so your name never
    has to be part of the logo. Your letterhead, for example, could have the mark
    in one corner and your name with contact info along the bottom or in another corner.
    That will make your mark into a beautiful icon that needs no explanation. (I mean
    icon in the \"iconic\" sense, not as in something you would click on your computer)\r\n\r\nAlso,
    Gotham is a really wonderful typeface to use in your identity, but I think it
    would be beneficial if you experimented with others to see what happens. \r\n\r\nAnalisa"
  created: '2008-08-11 19:45:10'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "Gui...jeez. I liked it better before you got your hands on it. Unless you're
    insanely funny. Then I like yours better.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-11 19:49:23'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Mr. Koppa\r\n\r\nDo not get me wrong. You are not wrong. We are coming at
    this from different points of view with like minds. I am just trying to push,
    as are others, in other directions to get him to understand these very relationships.
    Finally Analisa made the point above that I made in the first thread, does he
    even need the modifier handcuffed to the mark!\r\n\r\nDiscovery will happen and
    then we can meet for beers at your place in Wisconsin, and sow some seeds of dis/content
    on the hillside!\r\n\r\nOK Mike?\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-08-11 20:07:27'
- author:
    name: guiyong
    picture: 115599
  body: Mr. Typerror you talk many shit. "Handcuffs" and "planing seeds on hillside"
    what are you talking about? I find you very strange.
  created: '2008-08-11 20:36:26'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "Whoa, Mr. Yong! Take 'er easy, 'eh? I think what we've got here is a communication
    breakdown...that and the aesthetic you have shared is rather shocking to us in
    the West. But if it works in Tokyo, let 'er rip!\r\n\r\nMr. Clark, I like your
    offer. Beer on the hillside sounds terrific. Although Virginia does intrigue me
    as well...somewhere down the road I know there's a Shennendoah camping trip happening
    for me and the fam. \r\n\r\nBut back to business...yes, push to understand relationships...\r\n\r\nMr.
    Clashmore...would you humor us with a look at a little less clash? How about looking
    at Gotham italic... you might have to force the angle on it a bit if it doesn't
    match the mark, but I'm curious to see what it looks like.\r\n\r\nWhat I'm seeing
    in your mark is bold, fast-paced, adventurous design. Then I get to your name
    and I see you slammed on the brakes, turned off the car, and became very serious
    about being as uninteresting as possible.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-11 20:44:02'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "I'd suggest learning a little more English before posting again guiyong.
    Try Rosettastone.com\r\n\r\npenn"
  created: '2008-08-11 20:44:38'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Guiyong... if you think I made negative posts toward you then you need to
    go back and read. As to my posts, Mr Koppa and I were having a nice conversation.
    I was trying to arrange my vacation for next spring ; )\r\n\r\nSorry you took
    umbrage to my remarks to Mr Koppa. That would be, I am full of  \"much crap\"
    and my wife would agree with you!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-08-11 21:03:03'
- author:
    name: guiyong
    picture: 115599
  body: Penn I find your last comment to be insulting and downright condescending.
    I responded to your previous comment with the utmost respect and this is what
    you write back? If you had taken the time to check you would have found my name
    is actually Gui instead of simply copying my username. I think <em>you</em> should
    take some etiquette lessons before making <em>your</em> next post, you will find
    them here at www.myass!
  created: '2008-08-11 21:06:04'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "What's the old country song \"Thank God and Greyhound...\"\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-08-11 21:19:51'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: guiyong is an excellent and somewhat humorous troll...the question is if it
    is intentional or not. ;0)
  created: '2008-08-11 21:45:04'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "lol\r\n\r\npenn"
  created: '2008-08-11 22:01:09'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Noooooo. You thought that too? Caricatures are fairly easy to spot. At least
    he really knows how to use Photoshop ; )\r\n\r\nAmazing how his syntax and spelling
    certainly improved the \"angrier\" he/she got! \r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-08-11 22:04:45'
- author:
    name: guiyong
    picture: 115599
  body: Penn, what is lol? I will fight you, have no no illusions. I am strong!
  created: '2008-08-11 22:05:23'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "<em>\"Amazing how his syntax and spelling certainly improved the 'angrier'
    he/she got!\"</em>\r\n\r\nindeed.\r\n\r\nFor more photoshop fun, check out yong's
    latest submission to the new typophile logo thread.\r\n\r\n \r\npenn"
  created: '2008-08-11 22:11:53'
- author:
    name: guiyong
    picture: 115599
  body: 'I see you can spot easily my talent, photshop skills, type styles etc. But
    for aggressive post I must resort to room mate Dominique Hernandez who is PhD
    college student in online English course at RosettaStone.com '
  created: '2008-08-11 22:25:37'
- author:
    name: clashmore
    picture: 114206
  body: "Hilarious, guiyong.\r\n\r\nAnd I actually like Analisa's idea. I'd thought
    of looking into that before, and that comment makes me think it's worth taking
    another look. It would certainly make my life a little easier.\r\n\r\nI'm still
    going to try to finish this one up, though. More comps in the offing..."
  created: '2008-08-11 22:39:31'
- author:
    name: guiyong
    picture: 115599
  body: I have already explain my name is Gui, guiyong is my username. Please maintain
    polite posts.
  created: '2008-08-12 00:10:16'
- author:
    name: clashmore
    picture: 114206
  body: Haha, okay Gui.
  created: '2008-08-12 00:12:11'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "Hey Gui,\r\n\r\nI really liked your logo treatment, but to me it felt a bit
    empty (bland?). I reckon you should give it a bit more zing to make it really
    pop. Do you know what I mean? For example, I noticed that you've really only used
    two tones: purple and green, maybe you should try to get a bit more colour in
    there; more warm colours and maybe all of the cold ones as well.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-12 02:36:51'
- author:
    name: guiyong
    picture: 115599
  body: "Hello Nicholas,\r\n\r\nToday I encounter critical malfunction with Photoshop
    due to extreme filters I use. I search solution for problem but now you must show
    me more warm colours in logo and extravagant Photoshop filters. ([[http://www.photoshop-filters.com/html/plugin_magic.htm|Photoshop
    Effect Plugins Package Delux Edition]]. "
  created: '2008-08-12 02:59:42'
- author:
    name: KC
    picture: 115352
  body: I tink tis twead hyjakd by somting gooy.
  created: '2008-08-12 12:56:15'
- author:
    name: KC
    picture: 115352
  body: oops dubl post.
  created: '2008-08-12 12:57:38'
- author:
    name: theplatypus
    picture: 115609
  body: "use the same baseline as the rM for your name.  I think that'll work.  watch
    the weight of your type as well... It feels like your competing between the logo
    and your name.  if you can go lighter, explore that route.\r\n\r\ndaniel"
  created: '2008-08-12 21:41:23'
- author:
    name: jt_the_ninja
    picture: 115340
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/robertmckenna_6012.png]\r\n\r\nI just
    used Calibri there as a filler...I'm really pointing out what you should do to
    the actual mark.\r\n\r\nPeace,\r\nJT"
  created: '2008-08-12 21:51:36'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "Have you considered not having your name with the logo? I think I would let
    it stand alone if possible.\r\n\r\nSharon"
  created: '2008-08-12 21:59:10'
- author:
    name: clashmore
    picture: 114206
  body: Thanks for all your suggestions. I've pretty much decided that the mark will
    always be by itself.
  created: '2008-08-12 22:35:15'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "I like the ninja's solution. JT, that is...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-12 22:36:32'
- author:
    name: clashmore
    picture: 114206
  body: Sorry, but I don't.
  created: '2008-08-12 22:42:27'
- author:
    name: theplatypus
    picture: 115609
  body: "Having the right stem of the \"M\" as the ending statement keeps your logo
    within an invisible box.  Contains the design within itself.  Personally, I like
    it better that way.  The added arms from the K causes unwanted tension on the
    right.  I like it as a concept, Ninja, but I don't believe it causes as strong
    an impact as the left stem of the \"M\" being deleted.  I don't see too many type
    treatments where an \"r\" is completing another form.  Nice work.\r\n\r\ndaniel"
  created: '2008-08-13 00:14:13'
- author:
    name: jt_the_ninja
    picture: 115340
  body: "Actually, it's the right half of a Cyrillic zhe, but oh well, I still think
    it looks cool...makes for a slightly wider \"box,\" which gives room for the text
    beneath it.\r\n\r\nAnother thing I was thinking might work would be to put a small
    white space between the vertex of the \"K\" and the right stem of the M. Or you
    could stylize it a bit more....I just thought it was kind of a crime to have a
    name like McKenna and not use both capitals of the last name. \r\n\r\nBut your
    choice. I like the logo either way. The ligature of JT just looks like a backwards
    pi, so I always admire people with cool initials...\r\n\r\n\r\nPeace,\r\nJT"
  created: '2008-08-13 01:32:24'
- author:
    name: all about seb
    picture: 110631
  body: "Robert,\r\n\r\ngood one for calling it quits. Excellent work!\r\nMaybe you
    wanna post some example of your stationery etc when you put that together?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-13 08:42:09'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "Leaving it alone (the mark by itself, without the name) is also a good solution.
    Yes, I liked the addition of the K for the same reasons mentioned by the ninja,
    and that had a lot to with how it worked better with the name included. This is
    <cite>your</cite> mark, and it's a great one. Thanks for opening it up to a lively
    discussion, and hearing out the opinions of your peers.\r\n\r\n(My previous post,
    btw, was simultaneous with your post about your decision to leave it alone. I
    didn't mean it as a retaliation.)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-13 17:08:37'
- author:
    name: clashmore
    picture: 114206
  body: "Thanks for all your help, everyone.\r\n\r\nI'll be sure to post the stationery
    when it's ready."
  created: '2008-08-13 23:49:32'
date: '2008-08-08 09:20:21'
title: Personal Logo Critique

---
