---
author:
  name: TaraBuehner
body: "Here is a vague and general question.  Please give me any and all opinions.
  \ How does one differentiate between amateur and professional fonts?  Are amateur
  fonts free?  Reside on a certain web site?  Not come from a major type foundry?
  \ \r\n\r\nFirst throw out some thoughts, then I will elaborate on why I'm asking.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\n\r\nTara"
comments:
- author:
    name: guiyong
    picture: 115599
  body: 'I like for you please to elaborate first? There comes many fonts preloaded
    in your system I have found many more in website [[http://www.dafont.com|DaFont]]. '
  created: '2008-08-11 18:53:01'
- author:
    name: guiyong
    picture: 115599
  body: I am sorry for making "double post"
  created: '2008-08-11 18:53:40'
- author:
    name: jonathanhughes
  body: "I don't there there are many clear lines between the two. There are plenty
    of free professional-level fonts to be found all over the web. There are also
    probably some not-for-free fonts that aren't very professionally done. I'd say
    that the majority of free fonts aren't necessarily \"professional,\" but that
    doesn't mean they are totally unusable. \r\n\r\nI think lately, the bar has been
    raised, and fonts that are truly \"professional\" tend to come in families of
    several weights and also include many glyphs that most free fonts don't."
  created: '2008-08-11 20:05:43'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: "Not all fonts are created equal, and there in lies the difference. Wether
    it's poor use of nodes, an overall bad design, or a font that was done but has
    very limited appeal and usefulness. \r\n\r\nAs far as residing at a particular
    website, daFont carries free fonts, there's thousands of other sites as well,
    and some are not always 'free' but are commercial fonts being pirated under a
    different name. While places like Myfonts.com carries many quality commercial
    fonts, it also allows people to submit their work and have it downloadable for
    free. There are also many professional type designers that choose to run their
    own shop and sell for themselves, meaning you don't have to buy through a major
    foundry, or even a minor one to get professional fonts. You can't judge quality
    by price, some accomplished type designers release free faces as an incentive.
    Even large foundries do this. "
  created: '2008-08-11 20:10:22'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I think you're using the term \"amateur\" in the sporting sense, which does
    have a pretty strict non-profit (for the players) definition, but such is not
    so clearly defined in the arts.\r\n\r\nFonts are free (no cost) only when their
    authors or foundries declare them to be so, skill, certification, experience,
    or establishment notwithstanding. "
  created: '2008-08-11 20:13:58'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: I think it probably has a lot to do with the experience of the designer. My
    (unreleased) fonts are incredibly amateur, and probably still will be by the time
    I release them. There are plenty of professional type designers who have gone
    back and pulled their amateur works from the market. Take a look at the Schwartzco
    web site; Christian has posted stuff going back to when he was 14 and you can
    see how one develops to the professional level.
  created: '2008-08-11 20:18:52'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"How does one differentiate between amateur and professional fonts?\"\r\n\r\nUmm...I
    don't think you do. They aren't really adjectives that make a whole lot of sense
    in the context of typefaces.\r\n\r\nIf you're looking for analogies...maybe buildings
    would be better. There are well built, sound, strong buildings designed by internationally
    known architects and then there are falling down shacks built with scraps by transients
    down by the railroad tracks. One probably took a lot more time and craft to build,
    probably costs more, and likely has more uses, but both can have character and
    either might be the right building for the right setting for a particular need."
  created: '2008-08-11 21:51:53'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: 'As with any art or craft, some of the best work is done by amateurs, and
    some of the worst by professionals. And vice versa. I can''t see what difference
    "type designer" makes as opposed to, say, "playwright," or "cabinet maker" when
    it comes to the distinction between amateur and professional. '
  created: '2008-08-11 22:21:46'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "A font is either good or bad.\r\nYour decision."
  created: '2008-08-12 00:30:31'
- author:
    name: TaraBuehner
  body: "OK - interesting answers.  I know this was a vague question with no real
    answers, and so that's what I got.  But it's interesting.  \r\n\r\nHere's the
    deal.  I'm doing research into font preferences.  I'm at a step of my research
    right now where I am trying hard to define \"trendy\" fonts.  It has been suggested
    to me that perhaps amateur, ephemeral, grunge fonts are trendy by several people.
    \  So let me ask one more:\r\n\r\nWhat do you think current trends are in type
    design?"
  created: '2008-08-12 21:59:33'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "\"trendy fonts\"\r\n\r\nHow about: \"Someone (else) took a big risk & used
    (or made) the font (first), it seems to be well received, and not too many people
    have used it yet. So, if I use it right now, I'll be thought of as an innovative
    person.\"\r\n\r\n'Bout the same as with anything trendy.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-12 22:09:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Are you doing research into what's trendy, or what people think is trendy?\r\nHave
    you defined what \"trendy\" means?\r\nWithout a statistical basis, your research
    will be based on hearsay.\r\nIf you have a suspicion that people like what's popular,
    you are probably right--check it out:\r\nhttp://www.fastcompany.com/magazine/122/is-the-tipping-point-toast.html\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-12 22:42:51'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"perhaps amateur, ephemeral, grunge fonts\"\r\n\r\nGrunge is a style. It
    sounds like you are using 'amateur' as perhaps a stylistic description? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-12 22:47:11'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I answered an earlier email from Tara and have been struggling with this
    a bit. I think what\u2019s being tried here is to compare the fonts traditionally
    or commonly used in a particular context, with \u201Ctrendy\u201D fonts. However
    when I hear trendy I think Gotham, and that\u2019s hardly non-traditional. \r\n\r\nOne
    way of looking at this might be to gauge users perceptions when out of place fonts
    are used in familiar contexts, maybe a techno font used in place of Helvetica
    on a tax form, or a script font used on stop sign. \r\n"
  created: '2008-08-12 22:52:44'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Here's a teaser: In any era, you could say that flashy, crowd-pleasing display
    typefaces always attract the most intense attention initially, and then after
    a while the charm rubs off and everyone realizes how limited the uses are for
    them. A quick, intense period of interest which dies away just in time for the
    next hot flashy thing. It doesn't necessarily follow, however, that these are
    always products of amateurs. Experienced type designers put out any number of
    styles both utilitarian and showy. But we've seen in the last 20 years a flood
    of inexpert or naive fonts that gained popularity due to their appeal, wide distribution,
    low price or prominent exposure. \r\n\r\nIn other words, don't discount factors
    that are completely unrelated to design (price, association, availability). What
    looks like a trend may just be a relatively interesting, relatively functional
    free font. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-12 22:53:20'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: "To phrase crossgrove's argument a different way, professionals may design
    both display faces and text faces, but amateurs are almost always just designing
    display faces. Of course, there are countless exceptions to this. Take a look
    at someone like Ale Paul, who almost exclusively designs display scripts, but
    nobody would argue he's less than professional. I highly doubt that you're going
    to see a multi-weight serifed book face with support for multiple languages posted
    on dafont anytime soon, though.\r\n\r\nThis is a difficult distinction to make
    in any arts-related field. Lawyers have the bar exam, doctors have residencies,
    but such a distinction in the arts would be impossible to administer, and would
    kill innovation. The idea of who's professional and who's amateur in type design
    is often a high-art/low-art distinction, and what associations that person maintains.
    Pizza Dude would probably be thrown in the low art pile by most designers, but
    Ed Fella is someone they'd look up to in the design hierarchy. If you just knew
    Ed Fella by FellaParts and OutWest, without any context of what his work is about,
    you might lump him in with all the free font creators out there. \r\n\r\nAs much
    as those inside the design world cringe at the sight of all the unnecessary and
    poorly crafted fonts out there, maybe a font entirely composed of paw prints is
    the perfect thing for some lady sitting at her PC putting together a newsletter
    for purebred Beagle enthusiasts. And even if it's not good for anything else,
    I don't think it's hurting the professionals. It would be like saying that if
    I recorded myself singing unaccompanied Christmas carols on GarageBand and sold
    CDRs out the back of my car, I'd be taking income away from Celine Dion. "
  created: '2008-08-13 01:13:38'
- author:
    name: TaraBuehner
  body: "Thank you for comments and opinions.  Mr. Shinn, thank you for the article.
    \ Very interesting.  \r\n\r\nWell I will give a few more details now.  I was reluctant
    to do so initially, because I thought people may be tempted to critique my method
    rather than answer my questions.  \r\n\r\nI am a graduate student of journalism
    (with an interest in higher education) at South Dakota State University.  For
    my thesis, I am conducting a Q-research study on visual impact of display type
    (Si - I am pretty sure I've narrowed my research down to display only.)  Participants
    will be asked to sort hypothetical textbook pages from \"most prefer\" to \"least
    prefer.\"  The hypothetical pages will be of two types: \"trendy\" and \"classic.\"
    \ I am defining \"classic\" by those display types most commonly used by textbook
    designers currently.  From what I've found thus far, they are mainly Times, Palatino,
    Univers, Optima, and a couple of others. I am defining \"trendy\" by, well, that's
    what I'm trying to do right now.  I have been speaking with various typographers
    to try and operationalize this variable.  Some of the trends agreed upon have
    been: grunge, ephemera, distressed, sloppiness, etc.  Ellen Lupton went as far
    as to say, \"like those marketed by Veer.\"  \r\n\r\nI will choose my fonts, tentatively
    using some/all/more of the following criteria:\r\n\r\nThey have to be on the top-100
    most-downloaded list of some kind\r\nThey cannot not released by a major foundry
    ( What do you consider a major foundry?  I would include Bitsteam, Linotype, or
    Monotype.)\r\nThey cannot not be script fonts.\r\nThey cannot not be novelty fonts
    (dingbats, for instance, or dog paws.)\r\nThey cannot not obviously be based upon
    a \u201Cclassic\u201D font.\r\nThey must have been released in at least the past
    five years.\r\nAnd, I will use some of my own discretion, based upon the keywords,
    key themes I am currently gathering from my talks with typographers.  \r\n\r\n\r\nTrends
    are hard to define, and of course, they change constantly.  This particular research
    was completed back in the 1970's - but the problem is what those researchers considered
    to be a \"trend\" is obviously no longer so.  Updated research is needed.\r\n\r\nThank
    you for all your comments.\r\n\r\nTara Buehner\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-13 19:37:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Participants will be asked to sort hypothetical textbook pages from \u201Cmost
    prefer\u201D to \u201Cleast prefer.\u201D </em>\r\n\r\nThis has very little to
    do with whether classic or trendy display type is best for textbooks.\r\nIt's
    more likely that you will be measuring whether participants identify themsleves
    as classic or trendy.\r\n\r\nWouldn't it be better to do a split run of textbooks,
    and have two groups of students with equal abilities use the books, and see whether
    the group with the classic or those with the trendy type has better grades?\r\n\r\nEven
    then, you wouldn't be measuring the efficacy of the typefaces, because the best
    kind of page layout for a classic type is not the same as for a trendy type. So
    if you optimized the page layout for each to make it appropriate for the typeface,
    what you would be comparing is trendy page layout versus classic page layout.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Brushes_4818.jpg]\r\n\r\nAt
    the moment, your test is like asking participants to look at these toothbrushes
    and say which they prefer, when it would be better to check with their dentists
    a year later which group has fewer cavities."
  created: '2008-08-13 20:43:07'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"visual impact of display type\"...\"Participants will be asked to sort
    hypothetical textbook pages\"...\"Times, Palatino, Univers, Optima\"\r\n\r\nI
    think there's still some terminology confusion here.\r\n\r\nYou say 'display type'.
    'display' usually refers to typefaces specifically designed for large sizes and
    would be used for things like headlines, signage, posters, etc.\r\n\r\n'text'
    faces would be what you mention (Times, Palatino, Univers) which are typically
    used for body text.\r\n\r\nYou mentioned 'grunge' as a style before, and that
    would be more applicable to display faces. \r\n\r\nVeer's more popular typefaces
    are typically going to be used as display faces. You'd rarely see any graphic
    designer setting body copy in a book using a trendy script faces or a faux wood-block
    typeface. \r\n\r\nSeems like the challenge you have at the moment is how to definitively
    categorize the typefaces you are studying and then making sure they are being
    used in the correct context.\r\n\r\nSome other potential pitfalls:\r\n\r\n\"They
    cannot not released by a major foundry ( What do you consider a major foundry?
    I would include Bitsteam, Linotype, or Monotype.)\"\r\n\r\nThis seems like another
    arbitrary segregation. Obviously one needs to properly define 'major foundry'.
    Some of the smallest foundries are the most popular.\r\n\r\n\"They cannot not
    be novelty fonts (dingbats, for instance, or dog paws.)\"\r\n\r\n'novelty' might
    not the proper term there. Perhaps pictoral would be more accurate?\r\n\r\n\"They
    cannot not obviously be based upon a \u201Cclassic\u201D font.\"\r\n\r\nThat might
    be a tough one. That can be highly subjective. ;o)\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-13 22:41:15'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: Check the letter space. Leading experts say that 93%-94% of unprofessional
    fonts sport an unfathomably-wide space glyph. Not <i>all</i> unprofessional fonts
    have a really wide space but all fonts with a really wide space are unprofessional
    . . . except for one or two that were made that way as a joke and monospaced fonts.
    Go to MyFonts and change the sample text to "sp ac ed" and browse around. Science,
    man. Science.
  created: '2008-08-14 03:04:28'
- author:
    name: TaraBuehner
  body: "Thanks, again.  I recently made some changes to my objectives, hence the
    unclarity on my terminology.  It is indeed the display faces only that will be
    measured.  \r\n\r\nMr. Shinn - the efficacy of typography is not what I am trying
    to measure.  My apologies - it's a bit difficult to place my entire study's purpose
    in nut-shell form for a forum like this one.  But what I am measuring is first-impression
    visual preference - what I am calling \"visual impact,\" a term suggested by Sii
    - aesthetics, what draws a reader to a page. \r\n\r\naluminum - I appreciate your
    comments.  You're right - some of my conditions remain somewhat subjective.  It's
    difficult, but I'm working on it. Thanks very much for your help.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-14 15:07:25'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "<cite>At the moment, your test is like asking participants to look at these
    toothbrushes and say which they prefer, when it would be better to check with
    their dentists a year later which group has fewer cavities.</cite>\r\n\r\nI am
    using both models toothbrush and getting quite proficient at using them together
    at the same time.\r\n(Just kidding)\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2008-08-14 16:21:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...the efficacy of typography is not what I am trying to measure....what
    I am measuring is first-impression visual preference...what draws a reader to
    a page</em>\r\n\r\nIn that case, why not level the playing field and just give
    them each a type catalog and ask which fonts they like best?\r\n\r\nYou are assuming
    that the likeability, i.e. \"visual impact\" of a typeface, can be isolated from
    the context in which it is used, and who uses it.\r\n\r\nCompare the situation
    to musical instruments. Suppose a performer plays a piece of music on diffferent
    guitars, and listeners score the sonic impact of the axes. Now change the performer,
    and the tune--wouldn't that change the results? "
  created: '2008-08-14 18:15:17'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "<cite>Check the letter space. Leading experts say </cite>...\r\n\r\n\r\nIs
    that leading experts, or leading experts? \r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-08-14 20:33:10'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "> In that case, why not level the playing field and just give them each a
    type catalog and ask which fonts they like best?\r\n\r\nBecause they're trying
    to measure the actual effect of setting the text in the font on people's preferences
    for the different texts. That's not at all the same as asking people to look at
    a bunch of fonts and decide which they like best.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-08-15 02:30:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It's exactly the same.\r\n\r\nAs she has explained, Ms Buehner is not trying
    to measure the efficacy of the typography, so will pesumably be using the same
    layout with a variety of fonts. So participants will quickly figure out that they
    are being asked to grade their font preferences. \r\n\r\nDespite this, they will
    still base their judgements on how well the fonts work in the layout.\r\nHow meaningful
    is that? Don't different fonts call for different typography? That would certainly
    seem to be the case with the classic-trendy distinction as it is playing out here,
    with trendy being tagged as \"grunge, ephemera, distressed, sloppiness\". Such
    fonts would be \"most prefered\" in a similarly trendy layout, while classic fonts
    would look better in buttoned-down layouts.\r\n\r\nSurely the most neutral layout
    for determining the relative \"visual impact\" of different fonts is a type catalog?"
  created: '2008-08-15 07:54:02'
- author:
    name: bigdave
    picture: 115663
  body: 'Surely a font, regardless of cost, shouldn''t be deemed professional or otherwise
    as all fonts have an application within the sector they were designed for. Maybe
    it would be better to look at the use of fonts as unprofessional? '
  created: '2008-08-15 14:34:24'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "If the experiment is constructed as Nick describes, that would indeed be
    a significant weakness.\r\n\r\nHowever, if the experiment is being done with a
    reasonable methodology, then each individual user will *not* be asked to grade
    the *same* content with different designs. Instead, there will be as many different
    sets of content as there are designs, and which content gets assigned which design
    will be different for each subject, rotated across the group of subjects. You'll
    need a reasonable number of subjects for this to work well, of course.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-15 22:09:33'
- author:
    name: TaraBuehner
  body: "Hi again.\r\n\r\nThanks for your criticisms and suggestions; I always consider
    them carefully.  My methodology is sound, and not nearly as simple as you might
    assume based on my very brief description.  I am basing my own research on a reputable
    piece on typography done in the 1970's.  I am working carefully with an adviser
    on my method and am not seeking that kind of advice in this forum, although I
    truly appreciate your comments.   \r\n\r\nFor everybody's time - thank you.  I
    look forward to talking type with you all in the future. \r\n\r\nTara"
  created: '2008-08-18 22:30:13'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Tara,\r\n\r\nI wasn't critiquing your method, just pointing out that Nick
    was making unreasonable inferences in his critiquing of your method.\r\n\r\nThat
    being said, can you tell us what \"reputable piece\" you're basing your research
    on?\r\n\r\nIf you're been sharing your full proposal with Si, good for you. For
    anybody doing such research, I would strongly suggest you get a typographer to
    read your full proposal. In the published research on typography I've read, of
    the ones that had significant problems, I'd say half the issues were in methodology,
    but half were from errors due to lack of typography background. \r\n\r\nOn a side
    note, the grunge/distressed/etc trend was big over a decade ago, and is actually
    less popular now.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-08-19 21:56:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...Nick was making unreasonable inferences...</em>\r\n\r\nJust keeping
    it real.\r\nI will be extremely surprised if this doesn't turn out to be another
    banality along the lines of the recent Song & Schwartz \"Arial is best\" research.\r\nHowever,
    if it does transpire, pardon the inference, that trendy fonts have more visual
    impact than classic, I might conceivably change my tune and praise science for
    suggesting that Times, Palatino, Univers and Optima be put out to pasture."
  created: '2008-08-19 22:35:09'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: "What's the hypothesis of this study? I think it would just prove that people
    who grow up reading serifed book faces will find those typefaces easier to read,
    just as people who grow up reading Chinese set in certain typical newspaper faces
    would find that easy to read. \r\n\r\nIf you put some kids in an isolated room,
    and taught them to read only serifed faces from childhood, and gave another group
    of isolated kids only sans faces to read, and another group only Fraktur, etc.,
    then maybe you could compare these groups and say something about the instrinsic
    formal qualities in a typeface and how that effects legibility, comprehension,
    friendliness, etc. But there are so few faces used heavily for reading that you
    can't really compare apples to apples: certain typefaces will have an obvious
    bias, due their heavy use in our culture.\r\n\r\nThis study may prove that certain
    typefaces are favored culturally, but I think it's important that they not be
    presented as intrinsically better due to their construction."
  created: '2008-08-20 00:55:54'
- author:
    name: TaraBuehner
  body: "I may find nothing.  I'm having an amazing time learning more about typography
    with you experts and others.  I love it; love learning.  The study I am mimicking
    is Ernst/Kahle from 1978 (?) or '79.\r\n\r\nThanks for keeping it real.  \r\n\r\nTara"
  created: '2008-08-20 00:56:38'
date: '2008-08-11 18:40:56'
node_type: forum
title: Amateur versus professional

---
