---
author:
  name: voiceof
body: "I was thinking about designing a typeface and it got me thinking. How do you
  protect against piracy? With stock images, they can place code within the picture
  and scan everywhere until they get a hit. I imagine this would be much harder to
  encode in a typeface. \r\n\r\nAlso what about print, once it's out there, unless
  someone recognizes a face in a product, researches who designed it and then searches
  all past invoices or goes to each reseller and asks them to search for the offending
  company (which seems you would waste more time than it's worth) it would be near
  impossible to find stolen fonts.\r\n\r\nAm I missing something or is it really just
  a lot of faith in the end user?"
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>How do you protect against piracy?</cite>\r\n\r\nOne can\u2019t protect
    against it. It\u2019s far too common\u2014IIRC an study put it at 50% of American
    designers used pirate fonts at least sometimes\u2014to prevent. Once a few people
    have bought a font it inevitably ends up getting posted online by an end-user.
    Watermarks can be embedded in fonts, but unless a designer has the time and money
    to sue the original purchaser for letting the font get out, there\u2019s no point.
    And if watermarks were used by more than the one foundry that currently does,
    someone would just write a tool to strip them from fonts. \r\n\r\n<cite>Am I missing
    something or is it really just a lot of faith in the end user?</cite>\r\n\r\nSomething
    like that. I see it as a willingness to just focus on the paying customers and
    not get hung up on the pirates."
  created: '2008-08-14 17:18:34'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "Agreed. I think the best thing is to focus on the paying customers and if
    you love doing type \u2013 just keep doing it.\r\n\r\nI do it 100% out of passion
    and to go through the wonderful process of starting from scratch and ending up
    with a usable font \u2013 and I would even if I didnt sell anything at all."
  created: '2008-08-14 17:36:53'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"How do you protect against piracy?\"\r\n\r\nYou don't."
  created: '2008-08-14 18:40:56'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "the sisyphian task of \"protecting\" against piracy inevitably fails, drives
    up cost, and tends to ruin the experience of legitimate users.\r\n\r\nthere have
    been numerous threads regarding this issue, with a few staunch enforcers, a few
    \"don't bother\" liberals, and a vast majority of legitimate end users who can
    only moan about the inconvenience and downright disfunction of the more aggressive
    protection tactics hopelessly employed.\r\n\r\ni think the most useful discussions
    resolved in general agreement that the best antidote to abuse is education. people
    (users, students, layout artists) need to better understand the real work that
    goes into font craft and respect it as such."
  created: '2008-08-14 19:26:55'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">the sisyphian task of \u201Cprotecting\u201D against piracy inevitably fails,
    drives up cost, and tends to ruin the experience of legitimate users.\r\n\r\nI
    think this goes too far. The landmark cases establishing that font piracy is against
    the law were important. And the occassional prosecution, such as the one not too
    long ago in England, are also helpful. \r\n\r\nFrom other threads it seems that
    the larger foundries will go after companies, especially large companies that
    violate copyright. But they don't bother with hobbiests or small business, and
    there is little that a single designer, without big bucks for lawyers, can to.
    \ \r\n\r\nIt does seem that a reminder to a company that font piracy is against
    the law will very often get them to comply, as they are afraid of lawsuits. \r\n\r\nSo
    I think although there is a lot of piracy, it is a not a hopeless situation. "
  created: '2008-08-14 19:53:46'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Maybe not hopeless but pretty damn close to it William. Go ahead and release
    your font and find out.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-08-14 19:58:31'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "<cite>How do you protect against piracy? With stock images, they can place
    code within the picture and scan everywhere until they get a hit.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    phobia of font makers is of pathological nature and strictly for psychiatrists.
    Look at me: I wrote a dozen books, most of them running into several printed editions.
    But I never bothered to protect my books against piracy. A decade ago, there was
    a crazy guy who deviced the WORN disk (WORN = \"write once, read never\"). On
    this special CD disk, authors could store theirs books, but nobody including the
    authors, could ever retrieve what was stored on this WORN disk. People who invent
    such devices are crazy in the head. An no sane human being would ever use such
    crazy devices that \"can place code within the picture\", and similar lunatic
    stuff.\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-14 20:01:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Michael, I'll find out pretty soon, you're right. My impression is that those
    who are making good money from creating fonts do a lot of custom work, which by-passes
    the problem of piracy. \r\n\r\nBut then they need to establish a reputation to
    get custom work. Do you get custom lettering work from people who know about you
    through your fonts? "
  created: '2008-08-14 20:04:10'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: " The lettering got me the fonts and the fonts get me the lettering ad infinitum.
    I started out as a lettering artist and continue to do logos, titling etc. See
    the Node/Tour de ink William.\r\n\r\nI was just over on a site and they now have
    Sweepy up for grabs. This is the third time. \r\n\r\nedit: By the way, proprietary
    does not protect fonts. Employees take them home and then lend them to their friends.
    I have seen this too.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-08-14 20:13:04'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>But then they need to establish a reputation to get custom work. Do you
    get custom lettering work from people who know about you through your fonts?</em>\r\n\r\nMaybe
    you leak your own fonts to piracy sites! [[http://entertainment.slashdot.org/article.pl?sid=08/08/01/2337206|That's
    what at least one music group did]]."
  created: '2008-08-14 20:15:29'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Yeah, and I pimp my wife out twice a week!\r\n\r\nGet real.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-08-14 20:20:33'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Although I agree with the basic point that the fonts business is built upon
    the goodwill and honesty of people licensing fonts, I can\u2019t imagine how ignoring
    piracy is at all helpful. Even the most fundamentalist Open Source proponent gets
    annoyed when Open Source licenses are flouted.  "
  created: '2008-08-14 20:35:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">See the Node/Tour de ink \r\n\r\nI've been looking. I just love it. Fabulous!"
  created: '2008-08-14 21:05:51'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "As a little note on how cruel the reality can be, my [[http://autodidakt.se/index.php?page=exemplar|Exemplar
    Pro]] got \"ripped\" from a PDF, only a couple of days after it had been released.
    Since my PDF was downloaded hundreds of times during the first days, I guess someone
    saw the opportunity and grabbed it.\r\n\r\nAfter that I made outlines of the font
    in the complete character set showings, to prevent more piracy. It doesnt look
    as good on screen that way, but it is a good compromise to outline the complete
    sets. I should have done it from the start only. The rest was only subsets of
    the font.\r\n\r\nIt was a forum on the internet, someone asked for the font and
    someone ripped it, simple as that! I made an account on this perticular forum
    and found out that this person had \"ripped\" and/or shared almost all of the
    new fonts that was recently released by the major foundries.\r\n\r\nI downloaded
    my own font \u2013 now as a PDF-extract since I wanted to see how it worked. Something
    that is both good and bad with PDF extracting of fonts \"pirate-style\" is that
    the kerning cant be extracted, so my font was autokerned (without classes and
    looked terrible) and the hinting was very bad on the \"ripped\" fonts. Also the
    OT-features were not complete as it was recovered in some way. It's easy to spot
    the copy, in other words.\r\n\r\nSomething that however made me a little less
    sad, was that the person at least left my copyright string in the font.\r\n\r\nEven
    though this felt terrible in many ways, I have the same passion for type, so it
    will definately not stop me from doing more typefaces. Good people pay for fonts,
    and it is for them I design :)\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-14 21:16:24'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Hey William... post that praise over on the other node.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-08-14 22:13:16'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I can\u2019t imagine how ignoring piracy is at all helpful.\"\r\n\r\nThat's
    true. I think the bigger thing is to remember that trying to fight piracy via
    DRM is often hurtful.\r\n\r\nAs Goran points out, ANY digital media, in short
    time, will be floating around out in the wild. Accept that, and then focus back
    on the other non-technical, but more pragmatic solutions: education, law, customer
    focus, etc."
  created: '2008-08-14 22:43:09'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "@typerror: <em>By the way, proprietary does not protect fonts. Employees
    take them home and then lend them to their friends. I have seen this too.</em>\r\n\r\nSure.
    Certainly. That does happen. But when a fontmaker gets a commission job, makes
    the specified font(s) and gets paid, a substantial sum of money is acquired and
    retained by the fontmaker. Unlike retail fonts, piracy of proprietary fonts doesn't
    affect or reduce the revenue earned by designers/makers of those fonts.\r\n\r\nThe
    UK videogames industry loves me and have given me four separate comission jobs.
    They paid me a tidy sum of money each and every time, and if any of their employees
    upload any of the proprietary fonts I made for them&#8212;that's their problem,
    not mine. The tidy sum of money they paid me to make those proprietary fonts remains
    my property and is unaffected by any piracy those fonts may be subjected to.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2008-08-15 14:12:00'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Unlike retail fonts, piracy of proprietary fonts doesn\u2019t affect or
    reduce the revenue earned by designers/makers of those fonts.\"\r\n\r\nI'd say
    that likely 'more' true, but not an absolute. There really hasn't been any sort
    of tangible proof that digital media piracy has directly resulted in lost revenue.
    There's some tangential statistics for both sides of the argument."
  created: '2008-08-15 14:38:48'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I can\u2019t imagine how fighting piracy is at all helpful. <a href=\"http://torrentfreak.com/the-pirate-bay-sees-boost-in-italian-traffic-following-block-080815/\">For
    example, governments have tried to block access to a popular torrent site, and
    only managed generate publicity that increases the number of people using the
    torrent site</a>. "
  created: '2008-08-15 18:12:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I agree James.\r\nIgnoring is not condoning, and some prosecution of miscreants
    may be necessary, but the constant publicizing of the \"piracy issue\" on Typophile
    only serves to inform would-be villains of opportunities, and reassure them that
    they stand little chance of getting nailed for their transgressions.\r\nAnd who
    gets the bad rap in these threads? Not the evil-doers, but the foundries, who
    are castigated for their attempts at self defence as not being more \"customer-friendly\"!
    \r\nThis is why you don't get foundry folk entering these discussions much.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-15 20:49:43'
- author:
    name: Matt9302323
  body: "Q. How do you protect against piracy?\r\n\r\nA.  Offer rewards to turn in
    companies using pirated fonts."
  created: '2008-08-16 22:57:11'
- author:
    name: pieterp
    picture: 112213
  body: Matt, how are you going to prove that somebody didn't pay for a font? Sounds
    like a witch-hunt to be.
  created: '2008-08-17 00:20:17'
- author:
    name: Jedt Sitthidumrong
  body: "In my country, Thailand. We've a large font law suite last few years. After
    that, printing & publishing company has been learn about font licensing much.
    So, law enforcement may be helpful.\r\n\r\nBut I'm still thinking about how to
    encourage user to pay for the work.  The situation that work right now is to make
    a license easier. Discount for many license + company license or site license
    in a very attractive price. Then it'll be a customize version in a reasonable
    price for customer too.\r\n\r\nAt least not going to the most end of black and
    white.\r\n\r\nAny comment & question are welcome."
  created: '2008-08-17 03:38:31'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "William - you wrote:\r\n<em>I think this goes too far. The landmark cases
    establishing that font piracy is against the law were important. And the occassional
    prosecution, such as the one not too long ago in England, are also helpful.</em>\r\n\r\nDoes
    this mean they finally caught the Vampire? (I thought she was working out of Scotland
    or Ireland.)\r\n\r\nI haven't heard of this case, and I feel I've been out of
    it - would love to know where I can read up on what happened. \r\n\r\n***************\r\n\r\nMeanwhile,
    piracy has become an annoyance and a fact of life. Since each country has it's
    own set of laws to follow. I've seen torrents in Sweden waving their noses at
    us...giveaway font sites from India that preach they do not recognize copyright
    laws of other nations, Russian sites (need I say more about those guys) and my
    favorite was an American college student, in California, who put up a giveaway
    site - and had to take it down several months later (yes, after the damage). \r\n\r\nSome
    companies do go after pirates. They do hire people to help stop it. They do hire
    lawyers to write letters. They do hire hackers to break all connections. Yet,
    there are too many uneducated people out there, giving away - not just fonts -
    but all software they can get their grubby little hands on.\r\n\r\nWill it end?
    I hate to sound like a pessimist but if you can get rid of one site - the new
    one pops up 5 seconds later - it was just waiting in the wings....."
  created: '2008-08-18 14:17:32'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Also, for the record, I do believe that one should always go after 'true'
    pirates...those that are actively reselling IP for profit. That's traditionally
    what the term 'pirate' referred to.\r\n\r\nThat's different than the 'file trader'
    who is usually not out to make money on the endeavor. They might be out to save
    a few bucks, but more often than not, they are doing it for no other reason than
    the fact that they can. ;0)"
  created: '2008-08-18 14:59:08'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "<em>Also, for the record, I do believe that one should always go after \u2019true\u2019
    pirates...those that are actively reselling IP for profit. That\u2019s traditionally
    what the term \u2019pirate\u2019 referred to.</em>\r\n\r\nSuch as a designer who
    sells their design to a client using \"traded\" fonts? That is reselling IP for
    a profit (without license to do so).\r\n\r\n<em>That\u2019s different than the
    \u2019file trader\u2019 who is usually not out to make money on the endeavor.
    They might be out to save a few bucks, but more often than not, they are doing
    it for no other reason than the fact that they can. ;0)</em>\r\n\r\nIsn't that
    also one of the rationale of serial killers: just because they can? There are
    a lot of things you \"can\" do on the internet. Does that make it innocuous? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-19 13:06:06'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Such as a designer who sells their design to a client using \u201Ctraded\u201D
    fonts? \"\r\n\r\nSure.\r\n\r\n\"Isn\u2019t that also one of the rationale of serial
    killers: just because they can?\"\r\n\r\nProbably. But if you are trying to equate
    Russian kids swapping fonts with serial killers, I think the sane and civil discussion
    of this topic may be done."
  created: '2008-08-19 14:52:47'
- author:
    name: Bernard B
    picture: 119257
  body: "Talking about Russia, I had to ask for my only font (just released a few
    days ago on MyFonts), to be removed from forum NoWa.cc.\r\n\r\nAs I am a newbie
    in the typographic world, I think loads of people here should have a look there
    to see if they can grab their stuff for free."
  created: '2010-02-19 00:16:06'
- author:
    name: TypeSETit
    picture: 119272
  body: "Having been a victim to a whole lot of piracy, I have to admit it's like
    chasing rabbits. You can drive yourself crazy going after the offenders. The larger
    web sites are worth going after, as it lets other offenders know you are vigilant.
    I found one web site that showed how many fonts had been downloaded. I calculated
    it, and it came to over $750,000.00 that I lost in potential sales. I contacted
    them and offered to settle for 10% if they chose not to remove my work. They removed
    it within a couple of hours.\r\n\r\nI have embedded code in each font I have sold
    and so I know who the original purchaser is if it gets shared or posted on a piracy
    web site. I have caught several people in the act, and confronted them... this
    too helps to at least let people know you are serious about protecting your work."
  created: '2010-02-19 04:09:00'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: '@TypeSETit: given that you are talking about this, I wonder: How difficult
    is to put such a code into a font? Is it possible to open it in Fontlab, rename
    the font and delete the code? Does it require a manual generation of the fonts
    every single time, or this can be automatized? If it is a sensitive subject, you
    can contact me off-list (click on my icon > contact).'
  created: '2010-02-19 07:33:10'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: '[I know that some people in this forum have been said that putting a code
    into a font is a bit paranoid, but hey, I am just trying to learn.]'
  created: '2010-02-19 07:40:45'
- author:
    name: Bernard B
    picture: 119257
  body: If you guys are interested talkin' about that, I'm on the boat too!
  created: '2010-02-19 07:57:37'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "TypeSETit:\r\n\r\n> <cite>I have embedded code in each font I have sold and
    so I know who the original purchaser is if it gets shared or posted on a piracy
    web site.</cite>\r\n\r\nSix years ago, in 2004, I disclosed that Linotype started
    this embedding of purchaser data (first and last name, company name, street, zip
    code, city, country, email address, telefon, bank account, customer number, credit
    card number, pin code, password, etc. etc. etc.)\r\n\r\nsee http://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/lino17.pdf,
    page 1\r\n\r\nsee http://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/forgers.pdf, page 9\r\n\r\nOther
    font forging outfits adopted this illegal practice of embedding private purchaser
    data, much to the pleasure of professional phishing criminals, who can easily
    get access to these private data by hacking and analysing the embedded code of
    purchased fonts.\r\n\r\nPurchasing fonts via online stores is highly dangerous
    for your privacy, because any phishing hacker can read your private data by analysing
    the fonts you bought via online fontshops.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-19 12:44:20'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Here http://www.typesetit.com/order.html we read:\r\n\r\n<strong>\"Don't
    worry, it's safe and secure... I won't see your private information\"</strong>\r\n\r\nThat's
    a really good joke, considering that he inserts your private data into the fonts
    you purchase (for the convenience of phishing criminals)."
  created: '2010-02-19 15:07:24'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: And the LINO-table in OTF? Does it personalize fonts?
  created: '2010-02-19 18:17:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Purchasing fonts via online stores is highly dangerous for your privacy,
    because any phishing hacker can read your private data by analysing the fonts
    you bought via online fontshops.</em>\r\n\r\nThat seems to be a bit of a generalization,
    Uli.\r\nAre you accusing me of font forgery and endangering my customers' privacy?\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-19 19:04:52'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'I''d suggest you might be ''losing potential sales'' with the DRM data you
    are inserting into the files...provided you are disclosing that to your customers. '
  created: '2010-02-19 19:36:30'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> That seems to be a bit of a generalization, Uli.\r\n\r\nYou belong to the
    good ones.\r\n\r\nBut there are a lot of bad ones in this funny industry."
  created: '2010-02-19 20:11:16'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> And the LINO-table in OTF? Does it personalize fonts?\r\n\r\nIf you want
    to avoid phishing via Linotype fonts, do the following:\r\n\r\n1. Best advice:
    Do not buy Linotype fonts.\r\n\r\n2. Second-best advice: Do the following:\r\n\r\na)
    Import the Linotype OTF font into Fontlab with\r\n\r\n- Import Hinting option
    switched off and\r\n- Import OTF tables option switched off.\r\n\r\nb) Generate
    a plain PS Type 1 font in .PFA format.\r\n\r\nc) Remove %% lines from .PFA file
    with a text editor.\r\n\r\nd) Import the .PFA font into Fontlab and rehint it.\r\n\r\ne)
    Resave it as .PFB file or as .OTF or as .TTF file.\r\n\r\nSuch a cleaned Linotype
    font will not contain your private data.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-19 20:24:21'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Uli\r\n\r\nThanks for the tip.\r\n\r\n<cite>Best advice: Do not buy Linotype
    fonts.</cite>\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t. I think, that there are dozens of small and
    a few big foundries, that are much more innovative, technically and with regard
    to creativity. I will not spend much money for fonts, that were good, before they
    were badly digitized. Well, Ginkgo is interesting for me."
  created: '2010-02-19 23:31:20'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'I don''t sell fonts, so it might not be my business, but if foundries wanted
    to somehow serialize or attach a code which could help them keep track of who
    what and where then it wouldn''t bother me. But having my personal information
    embedded into a font is another issue. '
  created: '2010-02-19 23:56:43'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I presume that companies embedding your credit card number into a font you
    purchase do not license their fonts for embedding into PDF documents. Otherwise,
    depending on how much of the font gets embedded, this could affect legitimate
    purchasers even if they aren't victims of employee malfeasance.\r\n\r\nIncidentally,
    this type of practice, were it perceived as common, could give a valid reason
    for a major TV network like NBC licensing exactly one copy of a font, putting
    it on a computer in a locked room, and using that computer day and night for the
    purpose of applying that font to its promotional materials... instead of buying
    lots of copies and putting them on lots of computers."
  created: '2010-02-20 00:08:33'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: Do they really embed the personal info like credit card numbers, really? Because
    if I were a foundry, I would just stick an invoice/receipt number into the font
    file, and that's it. It just doesn't make any sense to do it any other way. Perhaps
    only out of sheer incompetence.
  created: '2010-02-20 05:53:54'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Miss Tiffany:\r\n\r\n> <cite>But having my personal information embedded
    into a font is another issue</cite>\r\n\r\nGerman laws do not allow sellers to
    secretly affix private data (name, address, email, bank etc.) to the commodity
    you purchase. It is likely that the same holds true for the USA. Here an example:\r\n\r\nLet's
    assume, you marry, and your betrothed buys wedding rings at a jeweller's shop.
    In the wedding night, you happen to look inside the ring and discover that the
    first and last name of your betrothed, his postal address and his email, his bank
    address and his credit card number and other private data had been engraved in
    small print in Neue Helvetica Ultra Light Condensed into the inside of the wedding
    ring by the jeweller, secretly without your prior written permission, would you
    think that this is illegal in the United States? If this is so, then the Linotype
    practice of clandestine embedding your private data into each Linotype font purchased
    at the Linotype Website is illegal too.\r\n\r\nWould the legal situation in the
    United States be different, if you visited www.linotype.com, and if Linotype,
    prior to your purchase, disclosed to you that it embeds all your private data
    (name, address, email, telephone, bank, etc.) into each font you purchase, and
    if Linotype requested you to click on an \"Accept\" button stating that by purchasing
    Linotype fonts you accept to forgo all your privacy rights?\r\n\r\nIncidentally,
    I have a new website www.chillingeffects.de dealing with bizarre legal chilling
    effects, but this site is in German language only.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-20 07:29:59'
- author:
    name: TypeSETit
    picture: 119272
  body: "Wow, I wouldn't even consider placing private information about the purchaser
    in the font they buy from me. The information that I place in the font is general.
    It's a serial number (which only I can track) along with the date/time of the
    purchase. I starting doing this back in 2004 when I first starting selling my
    fonts to the general public. The very first font I sold for public use... it immediately
    got shared with 10's of thousands of people in a font sharing group. This was
    after the person making the purchase assured me in a letter that she would not
    do such an unethical thing.\r\n\r\nIn answer to Cristobal's question: : How difficult
    is to put such a code into a font? Is it possible to open it in Fontlab, rename
    the font and delete the code?\r\n\r\nThe practice of embedding the serial numbers
    in purchases will likely come to an end for me because it's a tedious task. My
    system isn't automated at all. So I manually go into a specific character of the
    font they are buying and import the serial number from an Illustrator file. It's
    time consuming. Since I don't sell that many fonts from my own website, I've been
    able to keep up with it. \r\n\r\nHowever, I just recently purchased FontLab (I've
    been using Fontographer for many years) and plan to convert most of my fonts to
    OTF forrmat. Once I make those formats available, I will likely end the practice
    of embedding serial numbers. Perhaps I'll find another way that will help me track
    who the people are that are sharing my work illegally.  (I'm open to suggestions).\r\n\r\nRob
    Leuschke\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-20 13:00:55'
- author:
    name: Bernard B
    picture: 119257
  body: "If I'm not wrong, you can only embed fonts purchased from your store. But
    are you able to track fonts you sell on other shops ?\r\n\r\nI'm thinking about
    MyFonts, because I tried to track which asshole was sharing mine with the short
    list of buyers I have. I wasn't able to find him/her, and it's a kind of poor
    hobby."
  created: '2010-02-20 14:36:37'
- author:
    name: Bernard B
    picture: 119257
  body: "It would be great to embed very discretly some serial number in each purchased
    font.\r\nThen you just have download your file when you see it somewhere, and
    open fire on the original buyer.\r\n\r\nI don't know if pirates are looking for
    this kind of information before sharing any material, but I think they're not
    that stupid to give something with their name (or any info) engraved on it.\r\n\r\nI'm
    also working on a update and other fonts, and I would give this update for all
    my buyers, as to say \"Thank You For Your Support\". And I don't to say \"Thank
    You\" to someone who's stabbing me.\r\n\r\nAlso, \u2014 maybe not the topic for
    but \u2014 as I am a young freelance graphic designer, it's hard for me to pay
    bills. And I'm wondering \"Maybe this guy earns a lot more of money than me\".
    It's frustrating."
  created: '2010-02-20 15:03:08'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"but I think they're not that stupid to give something with their name (or
    any info) engraved on it.\"\r\n\r\nRight. They'd likely be smart enough to strip
    it out before putting it out there. "
  created: '2010-02-20 15:57:53'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "Well, some protection is better than no protection, right? According to TypeSETit
    experience, some people just share the files as they receive it. \r\n\r\nAnyway,
    I don\u2019t think it\u2019s possible at this moment to implement that kind of
    protection for fonts purchased in sites like Myfonts. If this is the case, the
    only way to go is to trust in your clients."
  created: '2010-02-20 18:22:11'
- author:
    name: TypeSETit
    picture: 119272
  body: "I do have a similar embedding in the fonts at MyFONTS, but they are identical
    for all the purchases. So, while I'm able to track that a shared font came from
    MyFONTS, I can't tell who the individual offender was. \r\n\r\nThe only case where
    I WAS able to do that was when my font, RoadRage got shared after someone purchased
    it from MyFONTS. Within a week of release, it was being shared. I knew who the
    offender was because it was the only sale. "
  created: '2010-02-20 21:37:13'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> I do have a similar embedding in the fonts at MyFONTS\r\n\r\nIn our street,
    there is a donut baker, who embeds his finger into his behind and then into his
    donuts, and when he sees people vomiting on the sidewake, he can tell where the
    donuts came from."
  created: '2010-02-21 06:16:12'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: Uli, I get your point but do you have to be so graphic? I was just about to
    have lunch, for heavens sake!
  created: '2010-02-21 18:45:41'
- author:
    name: george_van_buren
  body: "I have some tips regarding to minimize font piracy.\r\n\r\n<cite>-Name the
    font after and allready wide-spread (free) software product (example: Haptic Pro).\r\n-Check
    on google for your font on rapidshare, megashare, torrent, etc... and command
    the website-owner to delete your products.\r\n- Release a free demo-version of
    your font (perhaps one weight), so when searched for your font people usually
    come out to this one.\r\n- Create your own rapidshare-, megashare- and torrentfiles
    with just junk in them. If these are widespread people get tired of downloading
    them illegally.</cite>\r\n\r\nI've heard from the music industry that the people
    who download music illigally are also the people who buy the most music eventually.
    Maybe this als counts for fonts, because I think designers first want to see what
    they get."
  created: '2010-02-26 20:28:50'
- author:
    name: Bernard B
    picture: 119257
  body: "I was also thinking about using music industry techniques for fonts, there's
    some great ideas to experiment.\r\n\r\nI was also thinking about a free weight
    but with few characters, something without any punctuation, numerals and maybe
    missing letters.\r\n\r\nOh *hit I *hould buy thi* font"
  created: '2010-03-03 01:11:34'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: Bernard, the crippleware and DRM will have zero effect on the piracy rate
    of your fonts. The only people who will be negatively affected by these "experiments"
    are your potential, legit buyers. Why not focus on simplifying the experience
    of people willing to pay instead of complicating the life of those wanting to
    steal?
  created: '2010-03-03 02:29:16'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "After reading many messages about font piracy and type marketing, I believe
    a good strategy is:\r\n\r\n<strong>1.</strong> to offer one weight/style for free,
    as Ex Ljbris does. It must be an useful one, so avoid extreme weights.\r\n\r\n<strong>2.</strong>
    to make available various password-protected PDF samples and also interesting
    images on galleries (in distributors sites or services like Flickr).\r\n\r\n<strong>3.</strong>
    to upload incomplete/extract-like fonts to servers like RapidShare. The same what
    music industry is doing, uploading themselves low-quality or damaged MP3.\r\n\r\n<strong>4.</strong>
    to notify these servers everytime a genuine font is found for download \u2013
    yours or from other designers.\r\n\r\nThis will not avoid font piracy, of course.
    But may help. "
  created: '2010-03-03 02:36:30'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I was also thinking about using music industry techniques for fonts, there's
    some great ideas to experiment.\"\r\n\r\nThat experiment already came and went.
    The verdict? Don't use any DRM. Sell your product at a price point that appeals
    to the market buying it in a user friendly manner.\r\n\r\nThat doesn't mean that's
    what all digital media companies should do, but that is what the music industry
    has ended up doing. "
  created: '2010-03-03 02:37:42'
- body: "This is really a very interested topic. \r\nI'm going to meditate in Uli's
    hints/tips. \r\n\r\nAs for Linotype.com, Fonts.com and MyFonts.com. are Neo Sans
    font family legal or illegal?! Are Fonts.com and MyFonts.com trustful?\r\n\r\nWhat
    the trustful and antipirate site must I buy the legal and original fonts?\r\n\r\nAt
    Sebastian Lester's site, he counsels us to buy his fonts at Monotype.co.uk. It
    seems that Monotype.co.uk is very trustful. Monotype is very cheap than Linotype
    and Fonts.com. I think in buying 4 or 12 fonts Neo Sans at Monotype.co.uk."
  created: '2010-03-03 11:33:05'
- author:
    name: Bernard B
    picture: 119257
  body: "@apankrat You're absolutely right about focusing on potential buyers, not
    robbers.\r\nThat said, I don't think releasing a 'simplified' version of your
    font (especially for decoratives) will have negative effect on them.\r\n\r\nPlease
    tell me if I'm wrong."
  created: '2010-03-04 11:48:35'
- author:
    name: Stephen Rapp
    picture: 111901
  body: A while back I saw a site that was giving my work away and noticed they went
    so far as to have a Facebook page. So I tried to contact the "legal" rep from
    that site which was, as you might expect, a bogus link. Rather than waste my time
    trying that end I reported them to Facebook along with links to my attempts to
    contact them. To my pleasant surprise FB removed the group promptly and also removed
    all the links to my original FB post about it. A minor victory, but at least a
    drop in the bucket.
  created: '2010-03-04 16:36:53'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>3. to upload incomplete/extract-like fonts to servers like RapidShare.
    The same what music industry is doing, uploading themselves low-quality or damaged
    MP3.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis is really a bad idea. For a while people were using automated
    tools to rip complete foundry libraries from Flash type testers and then automatically
    generating kerning and other features. I\u2019ve had conversations with people
    who think H&FJ are incompetent because they tried using these hackneyed pirate
    fonts and assumed that the problem is the designer!"
  created: '2010-03-04 16:45:44'
date: '2008-08-14 16:51:36'
title: Font Piracy

---
