---
author:
  name: AzizMostafa
  picture: 111536
body: "http://www.maryamsoft.com/Default.aspx?Page=TopFont\r\nhttp://www.maryamsoft.com/files/download/MaryamSoft%20Quranic%20Naskh.swf\r\nwww.QalamBartar.com\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Here are the Advantages of MirEmad over similar SoftWares:\r\n1. Possibility
    of placing 2 or more marks on a single letter.\r\n2. Possibility of moving dots+Marks
    independently or together.\r\n3. Automatic Kerning \r\n4. Best Full-ligatures
    are generated by default.\r\n5. More t2b discovered later.\r\n\r\nFlowers to All "
  created: '2008-08-18 10:34:12'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Sorry, I have made a mistake in uploading the right pdf file. \r\nTomorrow,
    I will replace it with one like this:\r\nhttp://www.maryamsoft.com/Download/MirEmad%20Sample.pdf\r\nApologizing
    with Flowers"
  created: '2008-08-18 15:30:17'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "This sort of thing seems problematic, but I presume it is something that
    can be fixed:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/disjointed_5129.gif]"
  created: '2008-08-19 19:26:37'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Thanks John with Flowers\r\nAs the Document Properties shows, this PDFile\r\nhttp://www.maryamsoft.com/Download/MirEmad%20Sample.pdf\r\nwas
    created on 2/28/2007 by MirEmad 2.1\r\nIt will be updated soon.\r\n\r\nIn the
    coming-soon version that runs smoothly even on notepad+Wordpad:\r\n1. All the
    problematic Display+Printing issues have been fixed.\r\n2. All the tips + techniques
    recommended below have been employed:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/user/12550\r\n3.
    My Uncompromising Arabic Fonts+Reyhan.OTF have been added.\r\nhttp://www.persiaart.net/rayhan/index.asp\r\n\r\nWe
    are working hard to make MirEmad work on InDesign + on both Windows+AppleMac.\r\n\r\nAppreciatively"
  children:
  - author:
      name: saleem Ali
    body: How make Mir Emad plz discribe step by step thats general people gain knowlege
      and may be start new More beautiful font like Mir emad nastaleeq
    created: '2012-09-06 07:22:12'
  - author:
      name: saleem Ali
    body: How make Mir Emad plz discribe step by step thats general people gain knowlege
      and may be start new More beautiful font like Mir emad nastaleeq
    created: '2012-09-06 07:26:58'
  created: '2008-08-19 20:08:42'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Thanks for showing this Aziz!
  created: '2008-10-21 23:57:06'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "New AdobeArabic.OTF makes it easy to typeset Searchable, error-free + Fully
    Automatic Complex Text.\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/36706\r\nSee the newly attached
    file. \r\nYet to be Optimized with Flowers\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-15 19:52:13'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/28634\">MirEmad in Action</a>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Miremad_5334.gif]"
  children:
  - author:
      name: saleem Ali
    body: "very good nastaleeq font\r\n"
    created: '2012-09-06 08:14:31'
  - author:
      name: saleem Ali
    body: "Can i get volt base file that i see and technical hints for this font and
      then apply my newest Saleem Nastaleeq Font alph i personaly like font style
      and very good hard working on it. Especially nuqta placement move desire point.\r\n\r\nPlz
      elaborate nuqta adjustment and word overlapping."
    created: '2012-09-10 12:46:17'
  created: '2009-02-23 06:27:37'
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: "Great to see the classic Arabics scripts competently designed and given proper
    treatment. What a beautiful result!\r\n\r\nThomas Milo\r\nDecoType\r\nwww.decotype.com"
  created: '2009-04-30 09:12:06'
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: "Aziz,\r\n\r\nIs their an Arabic or English site for MirEmad?  The http://www.maryamsoft.com/
    site is only in Persian.  They have done great job it seems, but I wanted to know
    if their font are TT/OT format, and a bit about their technical specs.\r\n\r\n-Saad"
  created: '2009-05-01 17:15:32'
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: "Saad, Aziz,\r\n\r\nI had a quick glance at this product. In short, Aziz's
    claim that this is straightforward OpenType with no need for additional technology
    is not correct. \r\n\r\n1. Applications\r\nThe Maryamsoft dowload contains an
    installer that sets up an application directory with executables and fonts. This
    is proprietary technology.\r\n\r\n2. System DLLs\r\nIn the Windows System directory
    Maryamsoft replaces the essential 397Kb usp10.dll, the OpenType layout engine,
    with a 500Kb modified version. This replacement usp10.dll no longer calls the
    original Microsoft GDI32.dll, the Graphical Device Interface, but instead a newly
    installed proprietary GDX32.dll. As a result, Microsoft Windows is turned into
    proprietary technology.\r\n\r\n3. Fonts\r\nThe fonts have no OpenType layout tables,
    but instead use non-standard tables. This could be considered proprietary technology.\r\nThe
    underlying artwork is impressive and authentic, but the outlines as such appear
    not not to be the work of professional type designers.\r\nAs for the font structure,
    the glyphs are a mixture of letter parts, complete letters and ligatures.\r\n\r\n4.
    Unicode compliance\r\nThe concept uses assigned and reserved Unicode character
    code points for markup as a kind of proprietary technology. As a result these
    alien Unicode characters interfere with the text structure and data interchange.
    Moreover, font changes becomes impossible with such texts.\r\nAccording to the
    CMAP, language coverage is limited to Arabic and Persian. And, BTW, the OS/2 table
    is empty. \r\n\r\n5. Uninstalling\r\nThe package contains an unstaller utility.
    It restores the original usp10.dll. However, on all the paths leading to MS Office
    applications it leaves a trail of copies of the proprietary 500Kb usp10.dll. As
    a result, there is no de facto uninstallation for MS Office, since these applications
    will keep encountering the proprietary layout engines before reaching the real
    one. It requires a manual removal. The replacement graphical device manager, GDX32.dll
    also needs to be removed manually.\r\n\r\nMore to be discovered later. Now off
    for dinner. After all, there is no such a thing as a free lunch.\r\n\r\nThomas
    Milo\r\nDecoType\r\nwww.decotype.com"
  created: '2009-05-08 18:53:15'
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: "Dear Tom,\r\n\r\nThank you so much for this detailed technical analysis and
    review of MirEmad software.  This was exactly the sort of information I was looking
    for when I asked Aziz if there was an Arabic or English translation of the site
    or the product brochure.\r\n\r\nUnicode compatibility is essential today, I hope
    they will work out that issue.\r\n\r\n-Saad\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-11 16:31:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Replacing a key system resource such as Uniscribe with a custom version seems
    to me a very bad idea. Does the MirEmad version replicate all the APIs of the
    original Uniscribe? If not, it will be be breaking other apps, scripts or fonts.
  created: '2009-05-11 20:04:38'
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: "I spotted only two proprietary DLLs, but there may be more. The test wrecked
    one virtual machine. Frankly, after dinner I called it a day 8-) \r\n\r\nThomas
    Milo\r\nDecoType\r\nwww.decotype.com"
  created: '2009-05-11 20:20:43'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Thomas Milo,  \r\n\r\n0. Aziz\u2019s claim that this is straightforward OpenType\r\nwith
    no need for additional technology is not correct. \r\n... the Software deeply
    penetrates into the Windows system. \r\n1. MirEmad sets up an application directory
    with exes + fonts. \r\n\r\nWhat is incorrect in what I claimed?!\r\nMirEmad is
    a system-correcting+integrating tool plus\r\nOpenTypes fonts that appear Straightforward
    in Font-Lists \r\nbut not in Windows Fonts Folder. No additional Software is needed.\r\n\r\n2.
    Windows DLLs are ineffecient/insufficient to handle Arabic fonts.\r\nThat's why
    we redeveloped them.\r\n\r\n3. ... Font outlines not the work of professional
    type designers.\r\nAdmittedly true for the earlier versions of MirEmad.\r\nIn
    the coming fonts like Reyhan, no ripples are seen.\r\n\r\n4. Unicode compliance\r\n4a...
    alien Unicode characters interfere with the text structure and \r\ndata interchange.\r\n\r\nEnvitable
    trade-off. You gain nothing for nothing.\r\nHowever, we built - for our own use
    - a smart searching engine\r\nthat skip those aligning characters.\r\n\r\n4b.
    Moreover, font changes becomes impossible with such texts.\r\nChanges made to
    such texts can be canceled in part or whole \r\nsimply by pressing Alt+F5.\r\n\r\n4c.
    According to the CMAP, language coverage is limited to Arabic and Persian. And,
    BTW, the OS/2 table is empty.\r\n\r\nYou see it half-empty, we see it half-full?!\r\n\r\n5.
    Uninstalling\r\nYour recommendations will be thankfully worked out for the coming
    versions.\r\n\r\nJohn Hudson,\r\n\r\n@ Replacing a key system resource such as
    Uniscribe with a custom version\r\nseems to me a very bad idea. \r\n\r\nGood or
    bad is yet to be proven.\r\n\r\n@ Does the MirEmad version replicate all the APIs
    of the original Uniscribe?\r\nIf not, it will be be breaking other apps, scripts
    or fonts.\r\n\r\nMirEmad causes no conflict + no malfunctioning to any application.\r\nNothing
    was taken away, but essential additions were made.\r\nSo far, no body complained
    with its installation +/or its removal.\r\n==================================\r\nFlowers
    to All.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-17 14:03:24'
- author:
    name: dwcho3652
  body: "Dear Aziz,\r\n\r\nGod bless your work to develp many things.\r\nI would like
    to contact you, could you let me know your email address. My email is dawoodcho@gmail.com\r\n\r\nLooking
    forward to hearing from you.\r\n\r\nThanks"
  created: '2009-05-17 14:46:59'
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: "\"Windows DLLs are inefficient/insufficient to handle Arabic fonts. That\u2019s
    why we redeveloped them\"\r\n\r\nIn other words and for all clarity, this software
    deeply penetrates into the Windows system.\r\n\r\nWhen a third party \"redevelops\",
    i.e. hacks, other companies' copyright-proteced and licensed software on systems
    whose owners aren't even asked to consent with the change, this is considered
    software piracy. The resulting illegal functionality is called a virus.\r\n\r\nRegarding
    ignoring Unicode compliance:\r\n\r\n\"Inevitable trade-off. You gain nothing for
    nothing.\"\r\n\r\nIt would be honest to warn your potential customers and stop
    suggesting that MirEmad is regular openType for which \"no additional Software
    is needed\", because it needs not just special software, but it even \"corrects\"
    the Operating System.\r\n\r\nThomas Milo\r\nDecoType\r\nwww.decotype.com"
  created: '2009-05-18 07:09:00'
- author:
    name: behnam
  body: "To put it in the context, this is how things are in Iran. No resident in
    Iran has ever purchased a legal software in his life! Hacking illegally obtained
    softwares and adjusting them to Persian use is 'le monnaie courant'. There is
    some protection for internal products in internal market but that's about it.
    Open Source environment users naturally have a more legitimacy.\r\nIn fairness,
    I should note that this is a systemic problem creating a large cultural deficiency
    in terms of respect of copyright laws. But I do know of individuals who fully
    understand how harmful it was for developing Persian support in applications and
    even tried to purchase legal products, although they are very hard to come-by
    and many times more expensive. But this is an exercise in futility.\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iran_and_copyright_issues\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-18 14:19:08'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "@`When a third party \u201Credevelops\u201D, i.e. hacks, other companies\u2019
    copyright-proteced and licensed software on systems whose owners aren\u2019t even
    asked to consent with the change, this is considered software piracy.\r\n\r\nWell
    Thomas Milo,\r\n1. Different countries have different Laws, so please:\r\na. do
    not force yours on us as we do not force ours on you. \r\nb. feel free to hack
    MirEmad. Reciprocally?!\r\n\r\n2. Did we make any aggression to any other language?\r\n3.
    Are we forbidden to make modifications to suit our own language?\r\n4. Will M$
    consent to our Additions (not changes)? Too late?\r\n5. Or considers it unforgivable/inapplicable
    tool? \r\n6. And/Or redoes+confiscates the invaluable tool?  \r\n\r\n@`The resulting
    illegal functionality is called a virus.\r\n\r\nWhat annoys some pleases others
    looking for cheap + good alternative?!\r\n\r\nThanks with Flowers\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-24 10:07:12'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Would like to add that MirEmad has:\r\n1. fonts that are Unique and Dynamic
    (adjustable).\r\n2. powerful filters to export texts (in MirEmad and non-MirEmad
    Fonts) to M$ Applications and to CorelDraw, Illusrator and Photoshop as curves
    (vectors).\r\n\r\nIt is a 3-in-one Software: Tool + Fonts + Filters.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-24 15:39:14'
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: "Azizi Aziz,\r\n\r\nThank you for the eccentric proposal to breach each others
    intellectual property rights. There is however absolutely no need for this, as
    we are fully confident with our own original analysis, technology and designs.\r\n\r\nThe
    more I learn about Persia and Iraq, the more I am moved by the profundity of their
    civilizations. It is a privilege and a pleasure to work on Arabic script in general
    and Nastaliq in particular.\r\n\r\nLet's agree that we are both advocates for
    respectful and honest treatment Arabic script.\r\n\r\nWith bulbs,\r\n\r\nThomas
    Milo\r\nDecoType\r\nwww.decotype.com"
  created: '2009-05-24 17:18:48'
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: "Hi Behnam, \r\n\r\nI just discoverd an example that it's not just Microsoft
    whose ideas are \"improved\".\r\n\r\nA quick comparison with\r\nhttp://www.axissoftmedia.com/
    \r\n\r\nand this\r\nhttp://www.fontworld.com/me/tasmeem.html\r\n\r\nshows that
    even creative phraseology (like \"uncompromising Arabic\" before) can be hijacked.
    \r\n\r\nAnyway, it serves to prove that in Iran, Pakistan and India there is an
    intense interest to preserve Nastaliq, the greatest of all styles, for use on
    the computing platforms.\r\n\r\nA dream come true! \r\n\r\nThomas Milo\r\nDecoType\r\nwww.decotype.com\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fontworld.com/me/tasmeem.html\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-25 15:18:47'
- author:
    name: behnam
  body: "Oooooh that must hurt!\r\nIt isn't even in Iran and outside the boundaries
    of International laws. How could it be?\r\nIf it is any consolation, that product
    won't fly in Iran. Urdu nata'liq has its own specifics which is different from
    Persian nasta'liq. It might not be decipherable to the non native eyes though.\r\nNow
    to end this consolation, you should wait for another 'improved' product of yours,
    this time with Persian nasta'liq!!!\r\nBut you could see it coming couldn't you?!\r\nAnyhow
    the sooner you put your ACE everywhere and feed people with their basic needs,
    the lesser appetite for stealing sophisticated calligraphic applications.\r\nAs
    they say, if you can't kill them, feed them!\r\n\r\nSpeaking of basic ACE, could
    you explain a bit about justification mechanism and its interaction with other
    text engines and font formats, and particularly other scripts? And how about antialiasing
    in basic ACE?\r\n\r\nI'm sure it's not only my curiosity. There are people in
    Iran and Pakistan waiting for answers!!!\r\n-B\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-26 00:00:46'
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: "Hi Behnam,\r\n\r\nIt wasn't hurt, but rather surprised that this Indian company
    copied our wording verbatim. Apparently this is  case of a different sense of
    creativiy and self-respect.\r\n\r\nWe developed an admiration for and deep interest
    in Middle Eastern script culture - and try to contribute something useful. We
    never saw it coming that this would put us in the position of literally or metaphorically
    having to \"kill or feed\" people who do not respect other than their own property
    rights. It makes me want to return to the days that I was only interested in dead
    languages.\r\n\r\nAs for the different regional variants of nastaliq, it is an
    interesting challenge to identify and parametrize the features that distinguish
    Persian, Ottoman and Urdu nastaliq on the level of script grammar, i.e., competence.
    The chunky forms, odd proportions and deranged alignment of what led to the likes
    of Noori Nastaliq and in turn its derivatives, I consider a less relevant dimension,
    something on the level of execution or performance. From feedback on our own work,
    I get the strong impression that Urdu users can appreciate the equivalent of a
    Persian level of performance as long as the competence behind it meets their conventions.\r\n\r\nRegarding
    Decotype ACE, there is no need to speak of \"other\" font formats: for our technology
    the font format is irrelevant. Today it uses regular OpenType fonts, so any thing
    on font level, including anti-aliasing falls into that domain. The key difference
    is ACE as the lay-out engine. It takes the form of an API. Once this is built
    in, our script output can be made to interact seamlessly with any other engines
    or scripts. As for justification, that's again in the host engine's domain. The
    proof of concept is of course Tasmeem, which is capable of handling a lot more
    languages and scripts than the regular version of IDME. You can download and test
    it yourself.\r\n\r\nI agree with you that there is a need to make our technology
    widely affordable. We understand the urgency and are actively working on a solution
    . It's unfortunate that the present situation leads to copying and hacking, but
    in the end of the day it is a compliment.\r\n\r\nThomas Milo\r\nDecoType\r\nwww.decotype.com"
  created: '2009-05-26 10:10:38'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Bypassing noise, I emphasize again the fallacies of tasmeem\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/46166#comment-284286\r\n\r\nArabic
    is a dynamic script. So, it is:\r\n1. incorrect to apply Spacing/Shaping parameters
    to line(s) of text. \r\n2. impractical (time-consuming + tedious) to adjust word
    by word.\r\n\r\nSeek the Solution in the little, powerful, cheap, undemanding,
    amazing and user-friendly MirEmad?!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-27 08:24:34'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "... shows that even creative phraseology (like \u201Cuncompromising Arabic\u201D
    before) can be hijacked.\r\n \r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/20638?page=5#comment-205067\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/46166?page=2#comment-292120\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/46166?page=2#comment-284067\r\n\r\nHappy
    Hijacking with Flowers\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-27 08:48:33'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>Bypassing noise, I emphasize again the fallacies of tasmeem\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/46166#comment-284286\r\nArabic
    is a dynamic script. So, it is:\r\n1. incorrect to apply Spacing/Shaping parameters
    to line(s) of text.\r\n2. impractical (time-consuming + tedious) to adjust word
    by word.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe post to which you refer is a nice reminder that you
    have not understood Milo's replies back then. As he pointed out there, ACE/Tasmeem
    <em>do not</em> follow the usual spacing + kerning method, it uses a different
    method for defining spaces between letters and words.\r\n\r\nACE is literally
    the embodiment of the recognition that \"Arabic is a dynamic script\" so possibly
    you tell Milo old news. And ACE's above-mentioned different approach to spacing,
    by the way, is just logical consequence of this recognition.\r\n<em>ad 1</em>
    -- This may be true in the context of usual spacing + kerning method. But as said,
    ACE uses another method. Hence, a mere debater's point.\r\n<em>ad 2:</em> -- <a
    href=\"http://typophile.com/node/48495#comment-331016\">Your example</a> above
    indicates that with MirEmad, words are composed by pulling every individual piece
    to its proper place manually. Now this is what I would call \"impractical (time-consuming
    + tedious)\". ACE/Tasmeem does all of this automatically, so you <em>can</em>
    do manual adjustments if you feel like it but you <em>do not need to</em>.\r\n\r\nYou
    are argueing against your own misunderstandings and ascribe to ACE the problems
    that MirEmad seems to have. I have a hard time to make sense of this."
  created: '2009-05-27 11:37:21'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Above example was carried out with the 2-years old TTFont of Nastaliq just
    to demo the power of MireEmad in moving letters up+down, right+left by selecting
    them + pressing Alt + arrow keys. That font has been rebuilt (not released yet)
    with zero-spaces (automatic kerning) between letters and minimized spaces between
    words to be widened manually when necessary.\r\n\r\nIn One word, MirEmad does
    automatic kering for both Typographical + Calligraphical fonts. And it does automatic
    word spacing for Typographical fonts like Adobe Arabic. But manual word spacing
    for calligraphical fonts like Rayhan.\r\n\r\n@ Tasmeem uses a different method
    for defining spaces between letters and words.\r\n\r\n1. How does Tasmeem define
    spaces between Letters? By example please.\r\n2. How does Tasmeem define spaces
    between Words? By example please.\r\n3. Putting aside the unhappy ligatures, mark-positioning,
    Kerning and Word-spacing, of page 5/7 from http://www.fontworld.com/mepdf/Tasmeem4.pdf
    is messy. Why?!\r\n\r\nSorry, my timetable does not allow me to come back before
    next Monday.\r\nSo, please take your time to reply with Pictures.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-27 13:04:40'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>1. How does Tasmeem define spaces between Letters? By example please.\r\n2.
    How does Tasmeem define spaces between Words? By example please.</cite>\r\n\r\nFor
    reproduction purposes?\r\n\r\n<cite>3. Putting aside the unhappy ligatures, mark-positioning,
    Kerning and Word-spacing ... is messy. Why?!</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat exactly are you
    referring to? The page is crammed with images. \"Unhappy\" and \"messy\" is too
    vague to address. And how does MirEmad do better?"
  created: '2009-05-27 13:26:12'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "@ For reproduction purposes?\r\n\r\nReproduction of what?! Our method is
    more expensive!\r\n\r\n@ What exactly are you referring to? \r\n\r\nThe Whole
    Arabic text done in the Naskh style on page 5.\r\nThough manually handled, the
    last line of the white text on the blue background is messy! Just one line of
    many!\r\nCan you repeat it -  the very line of text - 3 times\r\nand post the
    3-line sample?!\r\n\r\n@  And how does MirEmad do better?\r\nFor reproduction
    purposes?\r\n\r\nWorking hard overtime with Flowers\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-31 14:13:57'
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: "\r\nAziz wrote:\r\n\r\n4. Will M$ consent to our Additions (not changes)?
    Too late?\r\n5. Or considers it unforgivable/inapplicable tool?\r\n6. And/Or redoes+confiscates
    the invaluable tool? \r\n\r\n\r\nAziz, I know that Microsoft licenses different
    customized versions of usp10.dll. May be you should approach it that way.  Even
    better, you should have a separate dll(s), with different name(s), to handle the
    functionality of the ones you \"hacked\". Adobe Indesign ME uses its own replacement
    of usp10.dll, it seems, and leaves MS usp10.dll alone.  This I think is the best
    way. \r\n\r\n-Saad"
  created: '2009-06-17 17:49:11'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Thanks Saad + Apologies for not replying earlier.\r\nMy experience with well-established
    companies is discouraging!\r\nThis topic + My Flower Crosswords says it all.\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/51401\r\nThe
    Very Big Fish swallows the very small fish Justly?!\r\nThanks + Apologies once
    again with Flowers\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-13 07:32:57'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Just to note that 2 new files have been uploaded\r\nhttp://typophile.com/files/MirEmad-A.pdf\r\nhttp://typophile.com/files/MirEmad-E.pdf\r\nRegards
    to All\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-24 08:36:39'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Grand Changes!\r\nMirEmad has been redesigned with these 5 modifications::\r\n---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\r\n1.
    All Thomas's Uninstalling recommendations worked out.\r\n2. A Flying boat used
    in place of the reconstructed M$ bridge.\r\n3. Fonts rebuilt to work straight
    on Adobe Applications as well as M$ Office.\r\n4. No installation + No setup is
    necessary.\r\n5. CD replaced with an exclusive plug+play USB Flash.\r\n---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\r\nThanks
    All for the Feedback + Recommendations.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-24 14:21:43'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "What makes MAC Outstanding is the separation of dots. See:\r\nhttp://www.khaledhosny.org/node/142\r\nHope
    Adobe + WinSoft will follow suit.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-04 04:35:33'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "http://dx.doi.org/10.3998/3336451.0013.105\r\nhttp://www.ucam.ac.ma/fssm/rydarab/doc/communic/justifiar.doc\r\n"
  created: '2010-12-06 06:14:53'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "http://www.maryamsoft.com/files/download/MaryamSoft%20Quranic%20Naskh.pdf\r\nhttp://www.maryamsoft.com/files/download/MaryamSoft%20Quranic%20Naskh.swf\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-12 13:03:41'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "http://www.maryamsoft.com/files/download/MaryamSoft%20Quranic%20Naskh.pdf\r\nhttp://www.maryamsoft.com/files/download/MaryamSoft%20Quranic%20Naskh.swf\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-12 13:04:02'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "http://www.maryamsoft.com/files/download/MaryamSoft%20Quranic%20Naskh.pdf\r\nhttp://www.maryamsoft.com/files/download/MaryamSoft%20Quranic%20Naskh.swf\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-12 13:04:39'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I have some [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uniscribe|good news]] for the
    originator of this thread.\r\n\r\nHis font is not the first piece of software
    to modify Windows, and replace its existing copy of the file usp10.dll with another
    version. <em>Microsoft Office</em> does the same thing, according to the Wikipedia
    article I linked to.\r\n\r\nA third-party update to support Malayalam is also
    noted.\r\n\r\nA virus is a piece of software that copies itself to other computers,
    and so that term, at least, does not apply here. There could be legal implications,
    and there could be a danger of making other software not work right (if I already
    installed the custom version of the DLL that lets me work with Malayalam, that
    would certainly break, but I imagine that this is an unlikely scenario).\r\n\r\nNote
    that some software that uses alternate versions of a DLL installs with that DLL
    in the software's own directory, so possibly putting the DLL in the directory
    of the (executable of) the word processor to be used with the font would be a
    better alternative - I don't know offhand under what conditions one can substitute
    a DLL in this way, but I do know that many software packages that come with their
    own versions of DLLs (a version from Microsoft being the particular update the
    software requires - many DLLs are redistributable) do such a thing."
  created: '2011-01-13 00:35:08'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DLL_hell|Here]] is an article on the basic
    technical issue that is faced here; at one point, this was a major problem with
    Windows, back in the days of Windows 3.1, when DLLs were normally always shared
    among all applications.\r\n\r\nCustomizing usp10.dll, however, does seem to be
    a common practice for those wishing to work with exotic scripts; it is noted that
    one needs to download a special version to work with Khmer in some of my search
    results.\r\n\r\nThis is what comes of designing Unicode so that it is not tied
    to glyphs - and expecting the most sophisticated software support for the languages
    which are much less widely used than Arabic, languages like Khmer, Malayalam,
    Thai, and Burmese.\r\n\r\nMicrosoft releases the internals of usp10.dll to developers
    under an NDA, but it isn't updating it itself to widen its language support. It's
    a pity that Microsoft probably wouldn't be amenable to a project to write, using
    no Microsoft code, an OpenUSP, that not only included the features you use for
    Arabic, but the extra features many other world languages require - and which
    Microsoft itself does not have the resources to support.\r\n\r\nIt would be somewhat
    ironic for part of Windows to be based on open-source software - although nothing
    new, as it does, as the world learned some time back, use chunks of BSD Unix."
  created: '2011-01-13 01:03:54'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: 'Further to these comments: Apparently, installing Microsoft Word causes usp10.dll
    to be installed in the Microsoft Word directory, for that application only. Normally,
    at least in some versions of Windows, usp10.dll is not part of Windows itself,
    and, thus, it is not normally available to applications other than Microsoft Word.'
  created: '2011-01-13 14:12:16'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Quadibloc, Usp10.dll is out of date, as I mentioned earlier:\r\nhttp://70.32.105.174/node/48495?page1#comment-421928\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-14 05:43:43'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Ah. I did not read all the posts carefully, and the statement that \"a flying
    boat is used in place of the Microsoft bridge\" is one that I would not have accurately
    interpreted without help.\r\n\r\nSome of my search results had pointed out that
    usp10.dll is <em>itself</em> out of date. Given how it was distributed, one would
    think it was there to give Microsoft Word an advantage over its competition, so
    this puzzles me."
  created: '2011-01-14 06:23:03'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "http://70.32.105.174/node/80811\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-05 05:14:59'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Just Relinking:\r\nhttp://w.typophile.com/node/48495?page1#comment-421928\r\nhttp://w.typophile.com/node/80811\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-24 06:34:27'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Pleased to announce that QalamBartar has been redesigned to go with CorelDrawX5
    too.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-07 04:18:44'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "New file ( Cerdik Jawi.pdf) has been uploaded with flowers.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-25 13:25:18'
- author:
    name: Muhammad Rashid Shaikh
  body: "Dear Aziz \r\nGlad to see Mir Emad in action. I am also developing a new
    and beautiful software of Nastaleeq by using Calligraphic samples of one of the
    famous Calligrapher of Pakistan. Now please inform me\r\n1. Mir Emad is Character
    based or ligature based or mixture of both?\r\n2. Which Calligrapher of Iran has
    worked for developing this font?\r\n3.Which softwares have been used to develop
    Mir Emad?\r\n\r\nWaiting your reply with bundles of  flowers\r\n\r\nRashid"
  created: '2012-09-07 13:00:28'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Thanks Muhammad Rashid Shaikh  for exchanging flowers.\r\n\r\n1. Mir Emad
    is Character based or ligature based or mixture of both?\r\n_ Mainly Character
    based.\r\n\r\n2. Which Calligrapher of Iran has worked for developing this font?\r\nhttp://www.scict.ir/Portal/File/ShowFile.aspx?ID=a0d2b2c1-44fd-4377-98ff-71b1b1aef828\r\n\r\n3.
    Which softwares have been used to develop Mir Emad?\r\n\r\n_ Our own.\r\n\r\nMore
    later\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-07 13:47:12'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> Can i get volt base file \u2026?\r\nPlease contact Scict.ir\r\n\r\n> Plz
    elaborate nuqta adjustment and word overlapping.\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/files/MirEmad.pdf\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-10 14:01:40'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "http://www.gulfup.com/?faTo3V\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-12 07:46:09'
- author:
    name: micdi
  body: "thanks aziz because of u i change my font site and make easy and simple\r\n\r\nhere
    is my sample of myblogs\r\n\r\nhttp://www.nashworld.org\r\nhttp://www.freeappliances.org\r\nhttp://www.peoplesearchclick.us"
  created: '2013-05-20 15:38:15'
date: '2008-08-17 21:56:10'
title: "\u2022 Dynamic Arabic,Jawi,Urdu+Kurdish Fonts for M$ Office, InDesignCS5 +
  CorelDrawX5"

---
