---
author:
  name: James Arboghast
  picture: 111003
body: "What can be done to this to make it a \r\ntypographic logo truly worthy of
  a \r\nnational type society? \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ATC_logo_5435.gif]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ATC_logo_sm_5528.gif]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ATC_logo_xsm_4759.gif]\r\n\r\nThe
  red-orange color is meant to evoke the \"red center\" of Australia with <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uluru\">---->the
  rock Uluru<----</a> being our national icon.\r\n\r\nIt's probably very fortunate
  that the profile of the rock happens to resemble the profile of the Sydney Opera
  House as well as the Sydney Harbour Bridge. I also designed a typeface known as
  <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/arboghast/2467911416/in/set-72157604893392854/\">The
  Angel of the Odd (ultrabold version below Jellybrush in this sample)</a> a number
  of years ago. It has an extreme shape in it which happens to look a lot like the
  Opera House. Should we consider using the Angel for ATC? Or would that amount to
  grandstanding and proprietizing the ATC with my own personal typo motif too strongly?\r\n\r\nAbout
  this current logo attempt: Should the letter outlines be tighter? Give them a high-tension
  effect?\r\n\r\nOh the ink traps on the t! Well, you see, Evert Bloemsma invented
  that. I love it because look, <em>look at that</em>, look at the tiny 150 x 150
  pixel and 100 x 100 pixel small versions. Those traps are only about 12 units wide
  on 1000 unit per em characters. But they keep working even at tiny reproduction
  sizes. I love that effect because it proves how powerful the design principles Evert
  was working on really are. A triumph for Dutch type design.\r\n\r\nWhat else?\r\n\r\nWhat
  else would you do to it? \r\n\r\nAnything else?\r\n\r\nThat's all I could come up
  with in three hours.\r\n\r\n[Edit: I just removed \"ghosts that sell memories\"
  from the thread title. Had to get your attention somehow ;^)]\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "James, I like it. That in-your-face trapping will be a great conversation-starter,
    and alludes nicely to the fact that type design is a craft. Minor: you might make
    the top-left trap a little bit smaller since the original angle is larger than
    the other three.\r\n\r\nThe only thing that jumps at me is that the \"a\" has
    a nice wonkiness, but the \"t\" and especially the \"c\" are a bit too tame in
    comparison.\r\n\r\nOne other thing: \"australian type club\" isn't properly centered
    under \"atc\".\r\n\r\n> Evert Bloemsma invented that.\r\n\r\nEvert was a singularly
    inventive designer*, but I don't think we can give him credit for inventing trapping,
    even in the special case I suspect you mean: showing off trapping.\r\n\r\n* Legato
    is the most significant font in centuries.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-18 21:16:02'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "The cream color looks faded compared to the orange and black. I would just
    use white and be done with it. Or you could try using a gray instead of black.
    Not sure.\r\n\r\nI'd also consider making the box a bit bigger on the left. It
    almost looks like a mistake. \r\n\r\nI'd stick with this typeface. A little less
    of a time stamp on it."
  created: '2008-08-18 21:23:54'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Hello James,\r\n\r\nI  really like the colours.\r\n\r\nHrant said <cite>the
    \u201Ct\u201D and especially the \u201Cc\u201D are a bit too tame in comparison.</cite>\r\nI
    second that.\r\n\r\nThe whole thing is not centered within the square, but also
    not decidedly right-aligned. I\u2019d either center it, or make the square bigger,
    to the left.\r\n\r\nThe t with ink traps \u2013\_is that the Crux australis? ;-)
    Like it.\r\n\r\nA minor thing: the \u2018ra\u2019 combination in Australian looks
    unfortunate and could be fixed in a logo.\r\n\r\nThe <a href=\"http://www.typographischegesellschaft.at/tga_logo.html\">TGA
    logo</a> (Typographic Society of Austria) comes to my mind: it has also three
    lowercase letters. They comment on it as follows:\r\n\r\n<cite>t \u2014 Thesis
    (state of the art in the founding year of tga)\r\ng \u2014 Garamond (historic,
    timeless)\r\na \u2014 Herbert Bayer (Austria\u2019s only noteworthy contribution
    to the history of type design)\r\nThe metal type impression is anachronistic detail
    and reminiscence.\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nQuite interesting, no?"
  created: '2008-08-18 21:44:50'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Hrant --- I suppose I should call them \"white spots\". They're ink traps
    yes, and Evert can no more be credited with having invented such things than anyone
    else. But he was inventive in the way he deployed them on things like lower t's
    and other kinds of cruciform joints by using exaggerated or high-concept traps
    to replicate the functions of serifs but in reverse, functioning as whitespots.\r\n\r\nI'll
    send you a sample of the kind of thing I've been working on for Linda Cunningham.
    Itemulates the gaps in the bowls of Vincent Connare's Magpie with exaggerated
    taper on bowl joints.\r\n\r\nLegzto, yes, I think you are accurate in characterizing
    it as Legato is the single-most significant font in centuries. \r\n\r\nj a m e
    s"
  created: '2008-08-18 21:52:07'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Florian---the ra is ruff and I need to tidy that area up.\r\n\r\n<em>The
    t with ink traps \u2013 is that the Crux australis? ;-) Like it.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    actually call that a \"cruciform\" joint. If you examine the 100 x 100 bitmap
    at 3x zoom --- amazing how those things translate to aliased pixels at tiny size.\r\n\r\nThe
    tga logo I hadn't seen before. Thanks for that. Um, the forms I built for this
    were Thesis-influenced, yes. De Goot is kind-of unavoidable, so influential on
    so many of us.\r\n\r\nGaramond, yes, there is an element Garamond-like bending
    in the hood of the a and the cursiveness in the t and c.\r\n\r\nBayer I'm not
    greatly influenced by, altho I do love what I was able to do to Bayer Universal
    / Bauhaus and get away with it : ^ ) Benguiat is probably more influential on
    the sentinel design canon. I've used the principle of the quarter round in a few
    faces now. The original was Midnight Kernboy. The thesis / signature version is
    known as the Angel, and Amity is the commercial version, a \"soft\" angel.\r\n\r\nThere
    are cross-cultural design connections everywhere and I gues a lot of those things
    are put there specially for us to find."
  created: '2008-08-18 22:03:57'
- author:
    name: eeblet
    picture: 111835
  body: "I feel strongly that there should be more a bit more whitespace (er, burntorangespace?)
    on the left and top - but otherwise, I think it's super!  I disagree about the
    cream looking weak; I'd stick with it.\r\n\r\n---\r\neeblet.com"
  created: '2008-08-18 22:04:03'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'just a thought: what if you set ''atc'' in the box, but the full tag line
    beneath the box?'
  created: '2008-08-18 22:07:13'
- author:
    name: Xavez
    picture: 115666
  body: "I like it. Although I would consider widening the margin between the wordmark
    and the left and top border. I like your idea of positioning it in the bottom
    right corner though. As for the colours: I think you'd either want to make the
    cream colour a bit darker, or the black a bit lighter, or maybe add a speck of
    brown to it. I'd also take a look at the r<>a in Australian and at the c<>l<>u
    in club. Nevertheless, I think you did an awesome job!\r\n\r\n--\r\n<a href=\"http://livegraphics.eu\">LGD</a>
    &bull; <a href=\"http://uandme.be\">U&amp;Me</a>"
  created: '2008-08-18 22:12:03'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "If the t in \"australian\" is going to have the traps, should other letters,
    too (e.g. the y in \"type\")? For consistency you might want to have either\r\n-
    traps only in the big letters (that is, the big t)\r\n- traps only in the big
    letters and the initials (that is, the t in type but not in australian)\r\n- traps
    everywhere they make sense (any stroke intersection? any acute stroke intersection?
    not sure what the \"rule\" would be)"
  created: '2008-08-18 22:14:03'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Also I'm not happy with the spacing and letterfit of the tagline at large
    sizes. It doesn't look right, isn't biting the way it seems it ought to.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2008-08-18 22:34:35'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Yes folks the kerning of the tagline is very ruff :^) Hee, moo, etcetera.
    I neglected to explain too that the whole typeface I'm using for this is quite
    ruff 'n ready. It's a quickie bold made using a fotnlab's bold filter. I only
    put traps on the t to begin with. The type needs refinement.\r\n\r\nYes, the proportional
    ratio of the mark to the left margin is a problem. Its bite has been deemed uncertain.\r\n\r\nDarrel---I've
    experimented with the tagline benath the box and felt it reduced the simplicity.
    The advantage of doing that way, the tagline ends up larger and the logo will
    reproduce even smaller. Another thing I experimented with was a tagline going
    the whole width of the box but still inside it, and letterspaced. Letterspacing
    the tagline I thought could be a way of evoking the vast opens spaces and distances
    between population centers characteristic of Oz. Unfortunately the letterspaced
    versions look like crap at small sizes and I don't even want to post them.\r\n\r\nAnother
    reference for the cruciform t---the Southern Cross constellation. That's handy.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2008-08-18 22:34:56'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "The cream white. Oh <em>that</em>. \r\n\r\nThe anuerysm I had last year left
    me permanently sight-impaired. I still have a very light blothcy moire pattern
    overlaid in my feild of vision, and this means looking at high contrast images
    is not so easy. My eyes and my brain get tired having to compensate for the distortion.
    One way of alleviating the malady is to work on cream and light gray paper. My
    paper color wound up being the white here. I think it's a good choice because
    it helps suggest yellow without actually using yellow.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-08-18 22:43:12'
- author:
    name: bvfonts
    picture: 109983
  body: James, this is excellent. The type is beautiful. I like the colors, even the
    bit of cream, it makes a difference.
  created: '2008-08-19 00:54:13'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "nice one.\r\n\r\nis this actually happening or are you just playing?\r\n\r\nvery
    exciting if it's a go ahead.\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul
    Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com/\">Graphic Design Melbourne</a>\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-19 03:12:03'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Nice James. \r\n\r\nThe stroke thickness of the \"a\" could maybe be adjusted
    to to either appear deliberately bolder than the \"tc\" or made slightly lighter
    to counter the optical illusion that the light coloured shape is thicker than
    the black ones appear to be the same weight. \r\n\r\nI like the slightly off-white
    off white colour & I like the rhythm & sort of progression the tails of the \"atc\".
    I could maybe be played with a bit?\r\n\r\nI agree with others that there could
    be more space at top and left. (But just a smidgen)\r\n \r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-08-19 04:12:12'
- author:
    name: Graham McArthur
    picture: 109915
  body: Will there be an alternative?
  created: '2008-08-19 06:12:40'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Graham---I'm flexible about it, now and in the future. If you have ideas
    for this now is the time to put them forward. I'm trying to finalize this as an
    initial logo design, but of course other people may have ideas in future years
    which will be up for consideration. \r\n\r\nI think we may end up using numerous
    different ATC logos for different purposes, and the design of each can be an integral
    part of club-goings-on. For example, if we decide to devote one year to calligraphic
    lettering then we'll need a caligraphic version of the ATC logo for that year.
    Another year it might be a celebration of the renaissance Italian roots of book
    roman type, and whoever is most enthusiatic can design an exaggerated Jenson-esque
    ATC logo for that year. And so on.\r\n\r\nPaul---yes ATC is full steam ahead as
    of now. We're not just playing. You have to give it time to gain momentum and
    be patient while we organize and acquire the resources needed to incorporate.
    Once it's incorporated we will have access to serious funding and the fun can
    really begin.\r\n\r\nRussell---yep, the <strong>a</strong> does appear optically
    larger than the dark type. See latest version, in which the big white <strong>a</strong>
    has lost some height to compensate.\r\n\r\n<em>. . .I could maybe be played with
    a bit?</em>\r\n\r\nYou're welcome to play with it and make new iterations. Start
    with the newest large bitmap below. You want vector files? Erm, I can let you
    have it as EPS, I suppose.\r\n\r\n===================================================\r\n\r\nThe
    body text in this sample uses a dark bown ink. The new logo comps have the same
    dark brown color for the t - c.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/as_you_6506.gif]\r\n\r\nI'm
    too busy to do any more to this until Friday / the weekend. Meanwhile please feel
    free to leave further crits and suggestions.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-08-19 21:43:36'
- author:
    name: WeAreLoa
    picture: 128775
  body: Hey James, definitely the all in one design. I think the type could use a
    little more air around it though, right now it wants to jump out of that box.
    Any thoughts on one colour application? Straight reverse?
  created: '2008-08-19 23:09:11'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'The brown is much better, but I wouldn''t put the formal name outside the
    box. It starts to fall apart...and I wouldn''t align the box with the formal name
    either. '
  created: '2008-08-20 01:02:31'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "how about including a kangaroo to make it really australian?\r\n\r\n*joke*\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com/\">Graphic Design Melbourne</a>\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-20 01:04:28'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "@ Arbo: <cite>You\u2019re welcome to play with it and make new iterations.
    Start with the newest large bitmap below. You want vector files? Erm, I can let
    you have it as EPS, I suppose.</cite>\r\n\r\noops\r\nTypo-city, James :o) I meant
    to type \"it\" \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-08-20 02:48:51'
- author:
    name: WeAreLoa
    picture: 128775
  body: '@ Paul: Yeah let''s stick the [[http://content.answers.com/main/content/wp/en/7/78/Australian_Coat_of_Arms.png|rat
    and chook]] in there!!'
  created: '2008-08-20 03:39:05'
- author:
    name: Tom Cannon
    picture: 110262
  body: "I would put the tagline under the block and tighten the \"atc\". The idea
    of including traps is clever, but I don't think it aesthetically works. It looks
    like a mistake to those who are not type-oriented and even then, it is only the
    \"t\" that has that treatment. I would keep it all clean. If not, then make the
    box more organic to fit the \"t\".\r\n\r\nTom"
  created: '2008-08-20 05:17:02'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "(much laughter) I was hoping some Aussies would make a few joke suggestions
    like that :^) Thanks guys.\r\n\r\nThree motifs we can rule out categorically:
    coat of arms, kangaroos, outline of Australian sland slab. It's interesting how
    the kangaroo works for Quantas. \"It helps that\" the Quantas 'roo is stylized
    and usually seen on the tail fin of jumbos.\r\n\r\nThe square logo --- looks like
    we're going for the self-contained one.\r\n\r\nMilton&#8212;I'm still experimenting
    with the spacing. \"atc\" and the tagline in first version looked a bit loose.
    Now I've gone too tight. For a color application I think dark type on an orange
    square will work fine. We can try a straight inverse treatment with light type
    on orange too, to see how that looks.\r\n\r\n@Tiffany: <em>...and I wouldn\u2019t
    align the box with the formal name either.</em>\r\n\r\nCan you expand on what
    you're getting at there for me? Thanks.\r\n\r\n====================================================\r\nThe
    font I'm making for this will very likely be posted in the sans serif critique
    forum, and when it's finished I'm thinking of releasing it as a free font to help
    promote ATC and solicit users of the font for cash donations to help fund ATC.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2008-08-20 05:30:12'
- author:
    name: Graham McArthur
    picture: 109915
  body: If you are not going with the roo, emu, or koala; you must include eucalyptus
    leaves, wattle and a goanna.
  created: '2008-08-20 07:26:15'
- author:
    name: WeAreLoa
    picture: 128775
  body: "Sorry James, I was actually meaning one colour black applications - whether
    you go with a straight white out of a black square rather than going with a tint.
    \r\n\r\nI think Qantas gets away with the roo because they've been saying it so
    loudly and consistently for so long. \r\n\r\nAt least we've got Vegemite brown
    in there."
  created: '2008-08-20 08:54:12'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "cracker dipped in vegemite anyone?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CommBankLogo_6248.gif]\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic Design Melbourne</a>\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-20 12:29:06'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>Sorry James, I was actually meaning one colour black applications - whether
    you go with a straight white out of a black square rather than going with a tint.</em>
    \r\n\r\nRight. Got it. Thanks :^)\r\n\r\nYes Vegemite brown, that's a good reference
    for that color. It's one of out national icons.\r\n\r\nPaul&#8212;your vegemite
    has turned black ;^)\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-08-21 08:05:41'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "@Tom: <em>I would put the tagline under the block and tighten the \u201Catc\u201D.
    The idea of including traps is clever, but I don\u2019t think it aesthetically
    works. It looks like a mistake to those who are not type-oriented and even then,
    it is only the \u201Ct\u201D that has that treatment. I would keep it all clean.
    If not, then make the box more organic to fit the \u201Ct\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    tested this on a dozen people at work today who aren't type-oriented, and none
    of them saw the traps as a mistake. Half of them didn't even notice the traps
    are there.\r\n\r\nI think consistency in design is vastly overrated, or at least
    overvalued by designers. Typographic design and typeface design are unlike buildings
    and automobiles in the sense that a typeface is a team of individual players that
    combine the strengths and weaknesses of each character. Logo design tends to overlook
    or neglect this vital aspect of typeface design. I'd like to keep some inconsistency
    in this logo as a reference to the philosophical side of type design.\r\n\r\nWhy
    does every element have to have the same treatment (why do we all have to think
    this way)? Integration of form and finish is one thing. Humanism is something
    else.\r\n\r\nThere are practical reasons for not putting the same style of traps
    on the a and c. They won't go on the c because there's nowhere to put them on
    the c without having it look unnatural. I could suggest or emulate them with kinks
    on the inner profile, but somehow anticipate that will look contrived. In the
    second iteration the traps on the a were exaggerated, but they can be even more
    exaggerated and still look natural so I'll try that.\r\n\r\nMy rationale for why
    the t can have such pronounced traps has to do with its structure. Of the three
    letters present, only the t has a four way cruciform joint. Each letter is individual
    and has its own requirements.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-08-21 08:29:03'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "One thing about this logo I'm not satisfied with&#8212;it's boring and isn't
    memorable. I'm glad people here like it, but it has to communicate to people outside
    the typosphere, so I'm thinking of scrapping this design and doing something with
    an animal or a tree or some other natural motif.\r\n\r\nFeel free to suggest motifs
    that might work. I want something suitable for a typographic treatment.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2008-08-21 08:32:50'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "why is it trying to communicate with no typosherians?\r\n\r\nit is bland
    ... agreed. and that was my initial reaction ... but it has an almost no pomp
    timeless \"government body\" feel to it. Which is how I imagine the logo will
    get most of it's placement ... i.e, as a sponsor or supporter of an event, publication
    etc.\r\n\r\nI'd be happy to throw a couple of ideas up - that was probably the
    wrong phrasing to use ... as was typing what I thought and actually leaving the
    original. Yes ... it's Friday!\r\n\r\nHOORAY! \r\n\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic
    Design Melbourne</a>\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-22 02:51:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "There's a difference between bland and subtle, with the latter being \"subvisible\",
    until one learns to see it. And subtlety is a cornerstone of type design. James
    just has to have the right amount of it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-22 03:18:23'
- author:
    name: phattexta
    picture: 109445
  body: "Hey James, greatly looking forward to being involved with the ATC once it
    is up and running mate. Let me know if I can be of any help.\r\n\r\nhttp://davethedesigner.net"
  created: '2008-08-22 07:17:58'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "great work dave<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul
    Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic Design Melbourne</a>\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-22 07:31:28'
- author:
    name: Lasko Dzurovski
    picture: 115244
  body: "Hello James,\r\n\r\nI send you one proposal for ATC logo.\r\n\r\nBest Regards,\r\nLasko\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ATC_5838.jpg]"
  created: '2008-08-23 11:21:45'
- author:
    name: jonsel
    picture: 111354
  body: "<em> A triumph for Dutch type design.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's great and all, and
    I love the crazy inkwells, but if you are working to communicate the AUSTRALIAN
    type club, then any Dutch-ness would seem to have little relevance.  Just sayin'.\r\n\r\nI
    can't say I've seen too many different type club logos. Society for Typographic
    Arts in Chicago uses a simply monogram in a box.  I think the type changes with
    application, which makes it more intereting. The Type Directors Club seal has
    always said \"typography\" to me because of the unique relationship of the drawn
    letters.  Simply typing out \"TDC\" or \"ATC\" or any monogram doesn't really
    say much about the organization beyond \"we've got a keyboard and we're not afraid
    to use it\"."
  created: '2008-08-23 23:38:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Trapping is not Dutch!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-24 00:50:57'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Perhaps you could incorporate boomerangs, or even a kangaroo?\r\n\r\n--K"
  created: '2008-08-25 03:58:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, a kangaroo, stepping on, and crushing, a kiwi.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-25 04:18:35'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "hah.\r\nKiwiland is great. No knocking it!\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br
    />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic
    Design Melbourne</a>\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-25 04:52:57'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Ha! That's really quite funny Hrant! What about a compromise, like boomerang-shaped
    inktraps?\r\n\r\n--K"
  created: '2008-08-25 05:22:40'
- author:
    name: Arcturus
    picture: 115466
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/atc_4449.jpg]\r\n\r\n\"You call that
    a slab-serif?...\"\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-25 05:55:53'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "hahahaha.\r\n\r\nWIN!\r\n\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul
    Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic Design Melbourne</a>\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-25 06:27:19'
- author:
    name: phattexta
    picture: 109445
  body: "I actually agree with jonsel about the TDC being a mark that echos the sentiments
    of the club. Perhaps something more obviously crafted?\r\n\r\nhttp://davethedesigner.net"
  created: '2008-08-25 09:57:01'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/TDC_4477.gif]\r\n\r\nthis one?\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic Design Melbourne</a>\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-25 22:36:14'
- author:
    name: jayyy
    picture: 109661
  body: "<cite>how about including a kangaroo to make it really australian?</cite>\r\n\r\nKangaroos
    are too obvious Paul - go with a Koala - way more 2009!"
  created: '2008-08-26 02:27:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Koalas cannot squash kiwis.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-26 03:11:31'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "If they fell they might be able to...  Thought that might be more of squishing
    than squashing.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos
    damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-08-26 04:02:02'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "and don't confuse koalas with drop bears. they're totally different!\r\n\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com/identity.htm\">Logo Design Melbourne</a>\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-26 04:55:47'
- author:
    name: WeAreLoa
    picture: 128775
  body: "1: Koalas are more competitive than you think. I'd back them in a cage match
    with a kiwi, even if it did have a better reach. A Wombat would wipe the floor
    with either.\r\n\r\n2: Not fair to include Drop Bears Paul, carnivores are off
    limits."
  created: '2008-08-26 05:38:19'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Sorry for the delay folks, I am traveling this week. Thanks for all the great
    humour and suggestions. I'm feeling really blue at the moment, for other reasons,
    so having a bit of humour about the place makes a big difference for me. \r\n\r\n\"Now
    *that's* a slab serif sonny!\"\r\n\r\nI think if we're going to use boomerangs
    or koalas they will have to be subtle.\r\n\r\ntrapping is not dutch\r\ndutch did
    not invent traps\r\ntraps found in germany\r\ntraps known to the viennese\r\ntraps,
    traps, traps\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-08-26 08:39:07'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Lasko, thanks for your proposed ATC logo.\r\nIt's stunning. A stunning failure
    of form\r\nand relevance. I can only give it one star,\r\nand a good idea where
    you can put it:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fail_good_sir_4492.jpg]\r\n\r\nIf
    it's meant to be a joke, it's very lame\r\nand an epic fail in the comedy stakes.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2008-08-26 11:12:07'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Some kind of mark with the letters ATC beneath it or to one side, like the
    NAB logo. Russell McGorman suggested petroglyphs, and that got me looking at pictures
    of petroglyphs and thinking in a petroglyph-like way. These are all from a Letraset
    dings font called Mo Funky Fresh Symbols:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ATC_mark_sextych_4113.gif]\r\n\r\nThe
    bottom two are just for laffs. Something like one of the first four but original
    artwork. Only using pre-made dings here to illustrate the concept.\r\n\r\nj a
    m e s"
  created: '2008-08-26 15:08:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "James, I think that illustration style would work very well, but the symbol
    you choose should be something about type - probably a letter, maybe the \"t\".
    Maybe make the \"t\" larger and \"umbrella\" the \"a\" and \"c\"?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-26 15:59:01'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "That has possibilities. Thanks Hrant. I made two more dummies \r\njust to
    explore a few other directions. What about the tiki / tribal\r\ntreatment but
    a letter or letters rather than an abstract face?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ATC_mark_tiki_3877.gif]\r\nimage
    courtesy of ShagExpert Shagbats ^\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ATC_mark_figure_4395.gif]\r\nfigure
    courtesy of Mini Pics Red Rock ^\r\n\r\nI have to be very careful to not use any
    kind of genuine aboriginal artwork or imagery as the Arboriginal people are very
    sensitive about that stuff.\r\n\r\nNow, if we can conjure up a petroglyph in typo
    form.\r\n\r\nj a m e s\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-26 16:16:32'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "This could work out okay.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/wigglyman_6390.gif]\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-26 17:03:13'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "My immediate reaction is that you might end up with an image that is too
    \u2018cod\u2019-Aboriginal. \r\nActually the vegemite/toast joke concept made
    me wonder, if you just had the counter of an A (with the trap) as the vegemite,
    and had it with no other type within the box it would make a striking, while subtle,
    mark \u2013 a typographic mark with no immediate reference to type, gah! probably
    overthinking it.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2008-08-26 18:34:52'
- author:
    name: David Ford
    picture: 115355
  body: Don't use the cultural symbols...its a complete minefield in my experience.
    May look cool but its just not right.
  created: '2008-08-26 20:11:31'
- author:
    name: WeAreLoa
    picture: 128775
  body: "Hey James,\r\n\r\nI think the Indigenous angle would be a mistake, especially
    given that the club in question is based on a history of written language linked
    with European/Western culture, the very cultures that committed many atrocities
    against said Indigenous peoples. \r\n\r\nAgree with Hrant, the T could be used
    to umbrella the other characters, but it might be starting to get laboured at
    that point.\r\n\r\nHope you feel \"up\" soon mate. Remember though, Aussies don't
    get the Blues, we get the Sh1ts."
  created: '2008-08-27 00:53:50'
- author:
    name: Katharina
    picture: 112995
  body: James, the Tiki should make the Kiwis happy; finally the Roos realise that
    Australia is just the West Island ;-)
  created: '2008-08-27 07:38:17'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "One thing we are definitely not doing is cultural symbols. The recently posted
    pics are passing thoughts, attempts, brainstorming, thinking out loud.\r\n\r\nSo
    erase from your mind the primative drawing style of that wiggly guy and replace
    it with, say, a Dada drawing style, or a polished typographic outline style in
    the European typo-tradition.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-08-27 10:45:53'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "@jonsel: <em>That\u2019s great and all, and I love the crazy inkwells, but
    if you are working to communicate the AUSTRALIAN type club, then any Dutch-ness
    would seem to have little relevance. Just sayin\u2019.</em>\r\n\r\nAs Hrant said,
    trapping is not Dutch.\r\n\r\nInitially I said: <em>Those traps are only about
    12 units wide on 1000 unit per em characters. But they keep working even at tiny
    reproduction sizes. I love that effect because it proves how powerful the design
    principles Evert was working on really are. A triumph for Dutch type design.</em>\r\n\r\nIt
    was misleading of me to say \"A triumph for Dutch type design\" at the end. Sorry,
    my goof. To put it another way, I love the effect I'm getting with the Bloemsma-inspired
    traps on the <strong>t</strong>. Evert's methodology inspires me to design type
    in my own way, using my own instincts, and I hope this can be a triumph for Australian
    type design.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-08-31 19:17:12'
- author:
    name: Henrik Tandberg
  body: "Nobody thinks the a-t pair looks too tightly kerned?\r\n\r\n2 x 2 = 5"
  created: '2008-09-01 09:19:37'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Yes. I think they are too tight compared to t-c.\r\n\r\nStand by. I'm working
    on this tomorrow with the aim of finishing, so I may have a semi-final version
    to post :^)\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-09-02 15:22:59'
- author:
    name: jonsel
    picture: 111354
  body: "<em>As Hrant said, trapping is not Dutch.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, yes, I know.  I
    latched on to your \"triumph of Dutch type design\" comment, which struck me as
    an odd thing to be basing an Australian organization's logo on.  Seems we both
    erred there.\r\n\r\nTo the rest of you boomerangs, I don't believe I suggested
    kangaroos, wallabies or any other hopping marsupial, did I?\r\n\r\nMaybe the inkwell
    concept can work, but perhaps you've got to blow it out like Amplitude.  I can
    see the point of having a typographic logo that typographers will understand but
    may be somewhat esoteric to others, but it has to still have some visual distinction
    to it.\r\n\r\nGood luck."
  created: '2008-09-09 04:27:01'
- author:
    name: PseudoRhys
    picture: 118226
  body: "Has anything come of this great idea? I haven't been able to google up any
    new information, hope it hasn't fallen by the wayside.\r\n\r\nHmm, i hope someone
    is still checking this thread!?"
  created: '2009-10-15 02:10:57'
- author:
    name: Setsolid
    picture: 118011
  body: "why is the A lower case?\r\n\r\nSteve\r\nFrom Brisbane"
  created: '2009-10-15 12:02:37'
- author:
    name: Mills Chris
    picture: 118204
  body: "What a curious little icon. \r\n\r\nIs this still a goer?\r\n\r\nThe orange
    looks more PMS than red centre\r\n\r\nWhere is the air - we live in a BIG space,
    not a semi detached in Archway\r\n\r\nAnd the typeface is...  ghastly.  This comes
    with way too much baggage be considered in any way representative, neutral or
    thoughtful.\r\n\r\nAt the end of the day there has to be some skill evident, some
    craft and preferably a glimmer of beauty.\r\n\r\nYou have chosen a super doozy
    mate. I have a lot of sympathy, it is a difficult brief.\r\n\r\nI would give myself
    some very serious strictures on this one. Stay away from indigenous imagery for
    Bruce\u2019s sake.\r\n\r\nFailing that, just use Arcturus\u2019 logo... it is
    a beauty.\r\n\r\n\r\nChris"
  created: '2009-10-17 01:38:45'
date: '2008-08-18 20:50:22'
node_type: forum
title: Australian Type Club logo

---
