---
author:
  name: Dan B.
  picture: 114033
body: I'm designing a church logo (or trying, at least) and am thinking it would be
  a nice touch to set it in a font similar to what was used in old Bibles. Does anyone
  know of any digitalizations relevant to my search? Thank you.
comments:
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'I am very interested in old Bibles but I have no idea what you mean. How
    old? 50 years? 100? 200? 300? 400? Bibles have been printed in thousands of different
    fonts. It would be helpful if you could scan a quarter page in reasonably high
    resolution and attach it to your next message so we could get a better idea of
    what you want. '
  created: '2008-08-19 17:50:28'
- author:
    name: Dan B.
    picture: 114033
  body: Thanks for your reply, Bill. You're right, should have been more specific,
    but my knowledge in the field does not lend me much help. I wasn't necessarily
    referring to a specific Bible - I am just looking for a font that would have similar
    characteristics to a typeface used to set a Bible in, say 400 years ago. A couple
    of your suggestions could get me started in the right direction. For example,
    would a Jenson be consistent? Is it the right period, the right feel, etc?
  created: '2008-08-20 06:31:31'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "North of the Alps, you\u2019d have had Blackletter, like <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/2krogh/2299606337/in/set-72157604011169923/\">this
    lovely Schwabacher</a>."
  created: '2008-08-20 07:04:57'
- author:
    name: Dan B.
    picture: 114033
  body: Wow, that is lovely - were other areas using anything else, apart from blackletter?
  created: '2008-08-20 07:16:22'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Florian, that is a stupendous example.\r\n\r\nDan, Jenson is a very good
    idea, but the only Bibles I know of printed in a related typeface are the famous
    Oxford Lectern Bible of 1935, which is printed in a special 22 pt cut of Centaur
    called I think Bible Centaur, and the famous Doves Bible. \r\n\r\nRegarding the
    Doves Bible, it was said\r\n\r\n'\"The noblest book to look at that was ever printed.
    The openings of the Books are admirably contrived with a woodcut initial in red;
    but the want of chapters and verses limits the use of the edition and the lines
    are really too long\"\r\n\r\n Comments on The Doves Bible taken from: P.J.W, Kilpatrick,
    ed. Catalogue of the Edward Clark Library, Edinburgh, Napier College of Commerce
    and Technology, 1976., p.233'\r\n\r\nThere is a most interesting digital reconstruction
    of the first page here:\r\n\r\nhttp://home.swipnet.se/~w-10011/Tobbe/large/dove.pdf\r\n\r\nI
    can't imagine why the lettering at the top is so uneven -- it was not so in the
    original printing.\r\n\r\nThe Doves Type reconstruction from Ohlsson seems to
    be difficult to get ahold of -- I have an unreleased version of my own.\r\n\r\nOf
    easily available types, you could try Monotype Centaur, which is easy to find
    as it comes bundled with Microsoft Office. A similar type with considerably more
    flexibility but with some annoying showy quirks is Adobe Jenson MM, which is no
    longer sold but which should be findable. Somewhat less flexible but still worth
    a good look is the current Adobe opentype version.\r\n\r\nTo give an impression
    of age, you may want to look at a somewhat distressed type. A fabulous example
    of subtle distressing is Matthew Carter's revival of Monticello. That is very
    typical of American 18 and 19th century printing -- somewhere along the line a
    Bible must have been set in it. \r\n\r\nAnother fabulous type showing deliberate
    distress quirks is Monotype Bell, which is also included with Microsoft Office.
    I believe that Bell has been used historically to set both Bibles and Books of
    Common Prayer. \r\n\r\nThat's just a start! \r\n\r\nOh - - lest I forget - - there
    is yet another modern Jenson interpretation included with Microsoft Office that
    is well worth looking at -- the rather heavy Font Bureau font High Tower. This
    leans more closely to Doves than to Centaur and is just superb. \r\n\r\nThe nice
    thing about so many of these types is that you most likely already have them.
    \r\n\r\nIf you are interested in blackletter, the Scangraphic font by Volker K\xFCster
    'Lutherisches Fraktur' is well worth a look, and the famous type historian James
    Mosley has a version that is astonishingly readable. There are many other fabulous
    blackletter designs, including some 20th century designs that are relatively easy
    to read. \r\n\r\nHave a look at some of these suggestions and let us know if they
    seem at all what you are looking for. There are many, many other possibilities.
    There have been so many countless settings of the Bible . . . . . "
  created: '2008-08-20 16:07:00'
- author:
    name: Dan B.
    picture: 114033
  body: "Bill,\r\nThank you for taking the time to reply in such detail. You've given
    a great deal of suggestions! I will examine them and see what I have available
    and maybe post the result. "
  created: '2008-08-20 18:20:00'
- author:
    name: Dan B.
    picture: 114033
  body: 'I do have Bell MT, but I''m not too keen on the "b" (i need to spell "abib").
    Centaur is beautiful, but I only have the regular weight and I need at least a
    bold. I have the same problem with High Tower. Monticello is wonderful, but I
    don''t own it. I do have Adobe Jenson, so I will give it a try. '
  created: '2008-08-20 18:30:26'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Jenson and relatives seem a bit wrong to me, inasmuch as it was originally
    designed for (and inspired by handwritten) <em>secular</em> texts. As I understand
    it, those humanist letterforms were closely associated with Classical literature,
    while bibles and the like retained the blackletter form for quite a long while.
    \r\n\r\nOf course, as noted above, that eventually changed, so if you're looking
    for something besides blackletter, you may simply need to alter the date of your
    historical inspiration to suit your aesthetics! ;-)"
  created: '2008-08-20 19:25:45'
- author:
    name: Dan B.
    picture: 114033
  body: "I went with Adobe Jenson and this is what it looks like right now. Any suggestions
    would be much appreciated (that's probably the most common phrase on this forum!).
    A tag line to go with the logo is \"Building on the Word\" (a reference to the
    Bible, of course).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logo_abib_4036.jpg]"
  created: '2008-08-20 19:27:17'
- author:
    name: Dan B.
    picture: 114033
  body: Good point Eliason. Date change - check ;)
  created: '2008-08-20 19:30:31'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'That''s nice - - it gets the message across. I wonder if you really need
    the dot on the i? '
  created: '2008-08-20 20:35:59'
- author:
    name: Dan B.
    picture: 114033
  body: "I was thinking about removing it, but the Jenson \"i\" without the dot looks
    a bit like a 1... But am I guilty of a typographic crime if I lower the dot, like
    this?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logo_abib_5850.jpg]"
  created: '2008-08-20 20:46:52'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: I don't think so. Jenson's own type has the dot quite alarmingly, by modern
    standards, placed to the right. Slimbach has acceded to modern taste by placing
    the dot where we expect to find it. However, moving the dot to the right wouldn't
    help you, in this layout. I would be tempted to give a trifle more space between
    i and b though, and I might even shorten the right serif of i. I really like this
    bold.
  created: '2008-08-20 21:50:05'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: The bold is fabulous. As Jonathan Hoefler said when Jenson came out, 'Robert
    has really let his hair down.'
  created: '2008-08-21 13:32:02'
- author:
    name: Dan B.
    picture: 114033
  body: I am really fond of the bold too. Kerning is still difficult for me to apply
    consistently - I will give your suggestions a try and repost. Thank you for your
    help.
  created: '2008-08-21 14:56:29'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "There are two kinds of Bible faces, at least, one kind is for personal bibles,
    which tend to be high x-height, wide, low contrast for getting legibility while
    stuffing a lot of words on a page. \r\n\r\nThe famous gorgeous bibles tend to
    be large, lectern things, which have very different demands, and can have small
    x-height. \r\n\r\nSince you are going here for 'flavor', probably that is more
    important than whether the face has actually been used for a bible. "
  created: '2008-08-21 15:15:56'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Are you referring to Ancient or Biblical Greek, Biblical Hebrew, or an old
    Latin or English?\r\n\r\nIt might be very creative and novel to combine a look
    and feel with old English characters, with a background image of a single Ancient
    or Biblical Greek, and Biblical Hebrew character with diacritic marks. Then, the
    overall impact is clearly Biblical."
  created: '2008-08-21 16:42:21'
- author:
    name: Dan B.
    picture: 114033
  body: "@William, \r\nYou're right, I am looking for the flavor. I want to make it
    believable at least. \r\n\r\n@Israel, \r\nYour ideas are very interesting, but
    would be difficult to implement considering my limited knowledge in Greek and
    the lack thereof in Hebrew... Moreover, I want to keep things simple. But thank
    you for sharing. \r\n\r\n@Everyone, \r\nI am hijacking my own post, but does anyone
    have any suggestions on improving the mark?"
  created: '2008-08-21 20:09:04'
- author:
    name: Dan B.
    picture: 114033
  body: "@Bill,\r\nHere it is with the changes you suggested. I make the right serif
    of the \"i\" smaller and moved the last b away from it (just a tad). It looks
    better to me. But maybe I've been staring at it for too long.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logo_abib_5813.jpg]"
  created: '2008-08-21 20:33:01'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "The page graphic is nice - evokes, suitably, both a big book (bible) and
    a bird (dove) and it's worked in well to the letter design (taking over for the
    middle stroke of the a, tangenting into the bowl of the first b. But I think there's
    a danger that the word will look like it's struck-through (even more so at smaller
    sizes or from farther away).\r\n\r\nIf you moved the graphic below the wordmark,
    you would avoid this reading. And that might fit well with the \"building on the
    word\" tagline you mentioned. But, as I said, there's things I like about where
    it is, too, so I'm not sure..."
  created: '2008-08-21 20:37:40'
- author:
    name: Dan B.
    picture: 114033
  body: "Craig, \r\nI see what you mean. And believe me, I've experimented with that.
    The open book graphic does support the tagline better if I move it under the type,
    but I lose the interesting interactions with the letter, which you mentioned.
    I did a quick print test at a small size, like on a letterhead, and it seemed
    fine. I don't imagine it will be used at a much smaller size than that. "
  created: '2008-08-21 20:46:47'
- author:
    name: mondoB
  body: If you want more choices, with a proper distressed look, the digitized original
    Fell Bible types are available for free download (just Google them) as are JSL
    Ancient roman and italic, taken from 18th century books, available for free from
    dFont. I have many others which I harvested by googling "free 18th century typefonts."
  created: '2008-08-22 01:00:59'
- author:
    name: Dan B.
    picture: 114033
  body: "@Mondo,\r\nI did try the Fell Types - that was actually my first choice -
    but for some reason, when I installed them (i use Win) in the font folder, my
    system went crazy. I restarted a couple of times and things were still not right.
    As soon as I deleted the Fell Type fonts, things were back to normal... Thank
    you for your suggestions though. "
  created: '2008-08-22 04:41:25'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "A great resource for a quick look at several \"first bible in Suchandsuch
    country\" specimens is Updike's Printing Types. An interesting first that is neither
    venetian, nor black letter: first bible in France, pp 83.\r\n\r\nI like your logo
    and lockup."
  created: '2008-08-23 08:00:10'
- author:
    name: Dan B.
    picture: 114033
  body: 'Looks like an interesting book, Randy. '
  created: '2008-08-23 09:58:12'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Forgive me for being too literal, but your \"book\" looks more like a magazine
    -- no bulk; certainly not a big book.\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-23 14:47:15'
- author:
    name: Yaronimus-Maximus
    picture: 110981
  body: "Kentlew - exacly what i was thinking. \r\nif it's a kind of a representation
    of the \"book of books\", it needs to be far more thick, and also the \"binding\"."
  created: '2008-08-23 15:39:11'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Maybe a horizontal line below could serve as both a "binding" for the implied
    book and an underscore for the word?
  created: '2008-08-23 16:43:40'
- author:
    name: Dan B.
    picture: 114033
  body: "@Kent & Yaronimus\r\nI understand what you mean. In my thinking, it does
    not look like the entire book, but only the top of it. In this sense, you're not
    seeing the cover (and the binding), but only the outline of the pages where the
    book is opened. The cut letters beneath that outline are the \"body\" of the book.\r\n\r\n@Craig\r\nWill
    work on your suggestion, but I'm not sure I understand the final part of your
    comment. Would you please explain?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-23 17:17:47'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I just mean something like this.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/abibline_6335.gif]"
  created: '2008-08-23 19:21:05'
- author:
    name: Dan B.
    picture: 114033
  body: 'A picture is worth more than a thousand words, I guess :-) But I don''t think
    this improves it. '
  created: '2008-08-23 19:35:47'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "As William Berkson noted, there are two kinds of Bible typefaces. Recently,
    I've been looking for information on the type used to achieve legibility for the
    small printing required to allow so large a Book to be published in an affordable
    single volume.\r\n\r\nI have now found one deserving of a new post, and not wishing
    to double-post, I've gone to this old thread...\r\n\r\nIt turns out that the face
    Cushing Old Style, here shown from the ATF specimen for 1900,\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cos_atf_5698.jpg]\r\n\r\nalso
    has the descending J which led me to link the Mediaeval-Egyptienne of the Bauer
    type foundry with the Petit Mediaeval Clarendon used in the Cambridge Cameo Bible
    and other Bibles from them.\r\n\r\nThat face was also 25J from Lanston Monotype\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/25j_cos_lmon_4646.jpg]\r\n\r\nand
    it originated at the Central Type Foundry shortly before it joined ATF.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cos_ctf_6466.jpg]"
  created: '2014-04-22 18:10:16'
- author:
    name: donshottype
    picture: 126100
  body: "Cushing Old Style looks legible to me. Presumably this is the digital version?
    http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/itc/cushing/\r\ndon"
  created: '2014-04-23 00:18:33'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Thank you. Actually, I was aware of this, although I hadn't gone out to take
    a look at the digital version yet, because my searches led me to this thread:\r\n\r\n[[http://typophile.com/node/101985]]\r\n\r\namong
    other results."
  created: '2014-04-23 15:21:40'
- author:
    name: donshottype
    picture: 126100
  body: "I find it difficult to decide what is what for the old Cushings and the digital
    ITC Cushing. Here is what Adobe has to say about ITC Cushing:\r\n---start quote---\r\nIn
    1897, J. Stearns Cushing designed a typeface called Cushing No. 2 for American
    Type Founders. Frederic W. Goudy added the italic in 1904, and ATF released a
    variety of other loosely related faces bearing the Cushing name. International
    Typeface Corporation licensed the typefaces from ATF, and designer Vincent Pacella
    redrew the typefaces into a consistent family. ITC Cushing, released in 1982,
    has a fairly large x-height and linear serifs that are a revision of the original
    sloping serifs. It has four weights plus matching italics.\r\n---end quote---\r\nITC
    Cushing is low contrast. I wonder if the old Cushing Monotone was even lower contrast?\r\nDon"
  created: '2014-04-24 08:04:27'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "<cite>ITC Cushing is low contrast. I wonder if the old Cushing Monotone was
    even lower contrast?</cite>\r\n\r\nWell, <em>that</em> question is not difficult
    to answer, given that the relevant specimen books are available on the Web:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cush_m_atf1900_6076.jpg]\r\n\r\nIt
    is also low contrast, but not no contrast. Unlike Lining Cushing No. 2:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lincush2_atf1912_4275.jpg]\r\n\r\nWhat
    struck me as odd is that ITC Cushing is more condensed than Cushing Old Style,
    as shown above. However, the version shown in the 1912 ATF specimen book is about
    the same - but that may not mean the face was changed, just that I'm looking at
    larger point sizes, which are easier to use as masters:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/co2_atf1912_4170.jpg]\r\n\r\nThis
    is Cushing Oldstyle No. 2, in the 42 point size."
  created: '2014-04-24 12:09:34'
- author:
    name: donshottype
    picture: 126100
  body: "Thanks for the further info. I can definitely see the difference. \r\nAs
    for point sizes, I do know that the ATF of that era was a pioneer in adjusting
    font contours so that at small point sizes the letters had less contrast and perhaps
    were wider. ATF did not merely scale the font, unlike much of the first generation
    of digital fonts, which as a result of optical scaling, are very poor for book
    size use. I recall reading some articles on this, but I can't recall where.\r\nDon\r\n"
  created: '2014-04-24 18:43:08'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Interesting.\r\n\r\nI remember reading in various general references on the
    history of type that ATF did make faces wider and bolder in smaller sizes.\r\n\r\nI
    have personally deduced, from looking at the ATF specimen book, and from information
    in the classic book Typographic Printing-Surfaces (Legros) that ATF would have
    had to make tiny adjustment to the width of letters in each point size in any
    case, as they made all their types in integral multiples of 1/4 point in width
    in order to facilitate justification.\r\n\r\nHowever, this did not lead me to
    conclude that ATF was a pioneer in making these adjustments. Linn Boyd Benton
    pioneered in using the pantograph, and made those adjustments from the beginning
    in his use of the pantograph. But, as another Typophile thread noted in a quotation
    from a French-language reference, smaller=wider (and, thus, I presume also bolder)
    was true during the pre-pantograph era of actually cutting punches as well."
  created: '2014-04-24 19:37:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Indeed, saying \"the ATF of that era was a pioneer in adjusting font contours\"
    is misleading because before the ATF's pantograph all sizes were cut individually
    anyway! ATF did implement something called \"cutting slips\" that \"algorithmically\"
    optimized the pantographic cutting from the large masters in order to optimize
    for size, but eventually largely stopped bothering with size-specific optimization,
    to cut costs.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-04-24 23:14:46'
- author:
    name: donshottype
    picture: 126100
  body: "Thanks hrant for the \"cutting slips\" reference. This jogs my memory on
    how ATF did size-specific optimization.\r\nDon"
  created: '2014-04-25 16:16:28'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "There is an excellent article on this face on Luc Devroye's site [[http://luc.devroye.org/fonts-26362.html|here]].\r\n\r\nAlthough
    the article doesn't mention that the face came from the Central Type Foundry before
    ATF, it did note that in addition to Lanston Monotype 25J, there was a copy by
    the Keystone Type Foundry called Richelieu,\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cos_richelieu_keystone_6032.jpg]\r\n\r\nand
    Linotype's version was called Title No. 1 - while some old Bibles were done on
    Lanston Monotype machines, as I was able to tell by the typefaces used for the
    footnotes, Linotype is, of course, the most popular choice for long stretches
    of text.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cos_title_1_linotype_6484.jpg]"
  created: '2014-12-09 11:47:18'
date: '2008-08-19 11:34:55'
title: Looking for a font consistent with old Bible typefaces

---
