---
author:
  name: LindsayWillis
body: "Hi everyone\r\n\r\nI'm new to this and unsure of how to explain what my question
  to you all is but i will try below and hopefully it not to long winded.\r\n\r\nI
  am a forth year student working on my major project which revoles around the question,
  can many different cultures be reflected in a display typeface. Specifically in
  relation to New Zealand which is where i live, can the cultural diversity which
  contributes to New Zealands identity be expressed in a display typeface?\r\n\r\nDoes
  Anyone know of typefaces that were designed with a similar intent? Are there typefaces
  that were intended to reflect the cultural masses and were succeful or failed?\r\n\r\ni
  dont know if i explained that very well but i would love some feedback.\r\nCheers\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I know little of New Zealand, and its multiple cultures.\r\n\r\nI know that
    Arabic and Urdu are very similar technically except for a handful of characters
    unique to Urdu.\r\n\r\nFor this many non-Arab designers, and Arabic-specific designers
    too, created a very unsuccessful group of Urdu fonts. Although they were technically
    correct, many Persian customers complained. \"When will true Urdu fonts become
    available reflecting Persian culture?\"\r\n\r\nI was surprized. I was told repeatedly
    that there is a sttylistic difference between Arabic and Urdu, reflecting not
    only in art, music, architecture, food, clothes, even in accent in speaking, choice
    of words, and of course language.\r\n\r\nI saw that Urdu and other languages needed
    a lot of cultural reseach to produce successful type designs."
  created: '2008-08-23 00:19:41'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Various European modernists were convinced that certain sans-serif styles
    represented the culture of industrialized twentieth-century nations. The Nazis
    tried to establish blackletter designs as the national face of Germany (but weren\u2019t
    especially consistent about it. Neither group ever really settled on any particular
    face, although the Swiss modernists did narrow things down to Akzidenz/Univers/Helvetica.
    And I don\u2019t think that either one was especially successful at trying to
    reflect their culture with those styles. \r\n\r\nConsider your own situation:
    how does one typeface reconcile traditionalist Maori, white New Zealanders, and
    the Maori that live in-between the two? \r\n\r\nYou should probably read Tschichold\u2019s
    writing about sans type in <em>The New Typography</em> and his later attacks on
    modernist monoculture (some appear in the appendices of Ruari McLean\u2019s books
    about Tschichold.). "
  created: '2008-08-23 00:23:00'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "[[http://www.typotheque.com/books/metro_letters/|Here's]] the <em>Metro Letters</em>
    project, which asked whether a typeface could reflect the Twin Cities (Minneapolis
    & St. Paul, Minnesota, USA), which might be useful. \r\n\r\nAs far as national
    identity in typeface design goes, there's some information on case studies from
    1900-1960 at the companion [[http://www.stthomas.edu/facethenation/|website]]
    to the current Face the Nation exhibition. (I'm hoping to get more information
    from the exhibition added to the website soon.)"
  created: '2008-08-23 01:36:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Outstanding young New Zealand type designer Kris Sowersby may be the best
    person to ask. His recent typeface \"National\" won a prestigious award this year
    but his Feijoa may be the face you want to look at.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.klim.co.nz/index.php\r\n\r\n
    ChrisL"
  created: '2008-08-23 02:01:18'
- author:
    name: Katharina
    picture: 112995
  body: "Hi Lindsay, I am just back from a trip to NZ, so my post is late. Here is
    a typeface trying to imitate Maori carving - I am not convinced, however!\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/churchward/maori/familytree.html"
  created: '2008-08-24 15:36:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Lindsay, this is a stupid project.\r\nIf the agenda is diversity and empowerment,
    just cut to the chase and get more ethnic variety in design schools, and get more
    agencies and publishers using Kiwi designers and Kiwi-designed typefaces. Mount
    a campaign against Adobe, Microsoft, and Apple fonts, not to mention Helvetica
    and all the rest of that old Euro stuff. And good luck with that.\r\n\r\nIf you
    get distracted by overt ethnic signifiers, such as those that appear in some of
    Joseph Churchward's faces, you will get embroiled in touchy debates over authenticity
    and appropriation. That kind of face lacks range and is marginal at best, so tying
    your agenda to its cute banality will fail to address the mainstream of typography.\r\n\r\nTo
    move forward, you will have to overcome internationalism at home, and rise on
    the international stage.\r\nFor instance, the <em>Sunday Star Times</em> (in which
    the article on Kris appeared) was designed by foreigners, using foreign typefaces.
    That's a frequent occurence in the newspaper business, everywhere. \r\nBut then,
    when New Zealand publishers have been persuaded that using their own art directors
    and designers, and Sowersby fonts, won't put them out of business, the question
    is, how much do his faces reflect or express local culture, and how much are they
    the product of an international type culture? It's irrelevant. More important,
    if you want to help your own culture express its individuality, support \"indie\"
    foundries everywhere, and in particular,[img:sites/default/files/old-images/button_4298.png]"
  created: '2008-08-24 20:41:38'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "It occurred to me that this line of thinking would be far more interesting/worthwhile
    if you twist it around to \u201CWhat makes typefaces relevant in the first place?\u201D
    For example, why the hell won\u2019t Helvetica go away? Why is Times New Roman,
    an aging newspaper face, being used for everything from office documents to books?
    Why is Franklin Gothic so popular all of a sudden? Why do foreign newspaper designers
    consider foreign typefaces relevant to New Zealanders? Would typefaces by a New
    Zealander really be any more relevant? Is Bringhurst full of shit when he claims
    that historically linking type to content is a good idea, given that most people
    would believe Didot was created the indian slave who did the punchcutting on board
    the Pinta\u2019s return journey to Spain (or at least I suspect they would believe
    it given how little most people know about type)?"
  created: '2008-08-24 22:28:10'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "\"Outstanding young New Zealand type designer Kris Sowersby may be the best
    person to ask. His recent typeface \u201CNational\u201D won a prestigious award
    this year but his Feijoa may be the face you want to look at.\"\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nBAM!\r\n\r\n\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic Design Melbourne</a>\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-25 06:06:35'
- author:
    name: begsini
    picture: 110929
  body: "Lindsay, this is not a stupid project.\r\n\r\ni had a vague recollection
    about norway having an official \r\ntypeface. a quick google search turned up
    a thesis around a\r\nsimilar topic:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.showsomeprogress.co.uk/henrik/Henrik%20Fjeldberg.pdf\r\n\r\nalso
    found a nice website about the official norwegiean typeface:\r\n\r\nhttp://norway.designmanual.no/print/typography/\r\n\r\njarrod"
  created: '2008-08-26 00:41:19'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "<em>The Nazis tried to establish blackletter designs as the national face
    of Germany</em>\r\n\r\nThey might have done so for some time, but eventually (they
    were very forward thinking) they figured that as soon as they would have conquered
    the world (!) they would want everybody (!) to be able to read their orders. Since
    most of the world wasn\u2019t familiar with blackletter they switched to roman."
  created: '2008-08-26 00:45:45'
- author:
    name: alanw
  body: "@eliason: If I recall correctly from my reading of Metro Letters, sorry for
    the vagueness, this was a while ago, a participant claimed that the idea of designing
    a typeface for a 'city' was perhaps a silly endeavour, that it could not encapsulate
    the values of a place or culture but rather that it would complement it.\r\n\r\nIn
    an obvious manner you see the wide variety of 'Oriental' or 'Mexican' typefaces
    that are probably more representative of the Western appropriator than the culture
    it is attempting to resemble. That reversal might make for an interesting project
    as well:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.dafont.com/theme.php?cat=201\r\nhttp://www.dafont.com/theme.php?cat=203"
  created: '2008-08-26 00:58:33'
- author:
    name: tungsteno
    picture: 128122
  body: "\u201COutstanding young New Zealand type designer Kris Sowersby may be the
    best person to ask. His recent typeface \u201CNational\u201D won a prestigious
    award this year but his Feijoa may be the face you want to look at.\u201D\r\n\r\nhttp://www.stuff.co.nz/sundaystartimes/4639909a19799.html\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-26 11:08:19'
- author:
    name: daniele capo
    picture: 113718
  body: 'Consider this: in Italy we still have a lot of public buildings with fascist
    era lettering. I don''t know if there is something inherently fascist in that
    style but for my mind the association is a real thing and when I see something
    similar I find it disgusting.'
  created: '2008-08-26 11:11:51'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>@eliason: If I recall correctly from my reading of Metro Letters, sorry
    for the vagueness, this was a while ago, a participant claimed that the idea of
    designing a typeface for a \u2019city\u2019 was perhaps a silly endeavour, that
    it could not encapsulate the values of a place or culture but rather that it would
    complement it.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's how I remember it too, which is why I recommended
    the book as asking, rather than answering, the question. <a href=\"http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_qa3982/is_200501/ai_n13507284\">This
    review</a> also reminds me that the winning typeface from the competition was
    one with randomizing stylistic features: \"it is important to note that Minneapolis
    & St. Paul are no longer Garrison Keiller's white bread America, but a mixed community
    of Hmong, Ethiopians, Eritreans, Somalis and European-Americans. Thus Twin, the
    typeface with its morphing possibilities seems appropriate for the cities.\" \r\n\r\nSee
    also the [[http://www.letterror.com/portfolio/twin/index.html|synopsis at LettError
    (the winning design outfit)]]."
  created: '2008-08-26 13:15:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It's still a stupid project, because if the agenda is empowerment, it doesn't
    address that issue, but distracts.\r\nConsider the Twin typeface, where here we
    are talking about morphing; now ask, if this is supposed to represent the city,
    wouldn't the obvious thing have been to commission a type from a local designer?
    Eric Olsen did in fact enter the competition with Locator, but didn't win. Message:
    the local talent isn't good enough to represent its home town--now there's a reflection
    of cultural values!\r\n\r\nThe issue is not what the thing looks like, but who
    gets paid for it.\r\nYou want culture? Follow the money."
  created: '2008-08-26 14:45:32'
- author:
    name: Nicole Dotin
    picture: 110879
  body: "> Eric Olsen did in fact enter the competition with Locator, but didn\u2019t
    win. Message: the local talent isn\u2019t good enough to represent its home town\u2014now
    there\u2019s a reflection of cultural values!\r\n\r\nI don't think this is true,
    but perhaps I am biased as Eric (Olson's) partner. Judging is an entirely subjective
    act and so the winning entry is based on the judges' criteria - unless we know
    the criteria, there is no way to say why one design was chosen over another. And
    besides, wouldn't you have picked the typeface that changed with the weather,
    too?! :)\r\n\r\nIronically, Locator is being used to represent the city at this
    website: http://mspmoretolife.com and Bryant was used for the Minneapolis Convention
    & Visitors Association to again represent Minneapolis. So, sometimes the local
    talent is good enough.\r\n\r\nTo get back to the original question, I would say
    a designer can try to create a typeface to represent a city/culture/etc., but
    that is only intention on the designer's part. The culture has to adopt the typeface
    as its own, and then it can be seen as a reflection, but it doesn't happen the
    other way around... as the Metro Letters contest clearly showed.\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-26 15:22:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "If a designer has grown up immersed in his or her culture and embodies that
    culture, he/she can reflect the culture in his/her work. He will simultaneously
    reflect his own individuality and be but a sample of one from his society. We
    cannot add on a mask that is truly representative of our society. It happens collectively
    as a body of work. You can look at Johnston, Gill and Tankard and begin to see
    an Englishness but what do you say of Caslon? In many years and many design attempts,
    a cultures look may develop, but that can morph into something else. In today's
    internet world, cultures overlap, mix, and breed quickly and there is more crossover
    than ever possible before. Today, you have a young New Zealander in Kris Sowersby,
    who works with an American in Christian Schwarts for a German named Erik Spiekermann
    to extend his Meta. At the same time, a Japanese named Akira Kobayashi draws an
    extension of Herman Zapf's typeface shortly after working on Adrian Frutiger's
    typeface.\r\nCulture is no-longer tidy and compartmental. It has become a blur
    of colors mixing like liquid dies absorbed into the same sponge of global society.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-08-26 15:46:19'
- author:
    name: guermantes
  body: "I'd say it is certainly not a stupid or a futile quest. It's a difficult
    one though. Symbolism in society is very interesting but also very difficult to
    analyse. There is nothing objective about cultural identity, so it will be very
    difficult to isolate cultural markers, and unless you incorporate what Nick above
    refers to as ethnic signifiers - that is, already existing symbols of the groups
    in question, and build them into the typeface in some way - then the question
    boils down to if the attempt to associate a given typeface with one culture or
    a variety of cultures becomes successful or not. This does not depend on the typeface
    itself, but upon the arguments that human actors (politicians/designers/cultural
    representatives/etc) attach to that typeface. Unless you make it some kind of
    totem-pole style typeface, it's a social process based upon the acceptance of
    arguments alone.\r\n\r\nExample: huge nation-wide campaign involving the design
    of a typeface that *is said to* express the nation's multiple cultures. If the
    public accepts this then the typeface takes on that role and *becomes* the expression
    of this multiplicity. Before this acceptance it wasn't the expression of the nation's
    cultural multiplicity. A table is not a table until people starts identifying
    that wooden structure (or other material) as such."
  created: '2008-08-26 16:52:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Message: the local talent isn\u2019t good enough to represent its home
    town</em>\r\n\r\nNicole, I was commenting on the impression created by choosing
    an out-of-town winner, not on the quality of Eric's work, which I have long admired,
    and I'm happy to know it's getting face time representing Minneapolis. I also
    have great admiration for the typeface which changes with the weather, but I wouldn't
    have picked it--I don't judge (or enter) competitions. \r\n\r\n<em>as the Metro
    Letters contest clearly showed.</em>\r\n\r\nHow? Do you mean that the winning
    Twin face is not being used locally to represent the city but Locator is?\r\nIn
    that case, it could be said that the competition, in prompting Eric to produce
    Locator, was instrumental in expressing the local culture!"
  created: '2008-08-26 17:10:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Pierre, your example smacks of the Big Lie.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-26 17:24:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Lindsey, an interesting and pertinent question, one that anybody who thinks
    there's more to life than individuality would find worthwhile. Touchy debates?
    Bring 'em on!\r\n\r\nThe trick, as some others have pointed out, is to not expect
    any literality, and accommodate the necessarily hazy business of seeing the reflections
    of culture in concrete things. The degree of subtlety I'm talking about is referenced
    in my review of Lisboa here: http://typographica.org/001045.php\r\n\r\nOn the
    other hand, unlike Lisboa for example you're dealing with display typography,
    so you have a lot more room for cultural leveraging.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-26 18:47:42'
- author:
    name: guermantes
  body: "Nick,\r\n\r\nTo a certain extent it is (sociologically speaking). But once
    the lie is 'accepted' it becomes truth. After all (and please excuse me for getting
    a bit academic here, after all I am a social scientist by profession), social
    reality (e.g. interaction/communication between humans) is socially contructed.
    But once constructed there is no reason not to treat it as real. So if there is
    anyone currently typing an anti-post-modernist rebuttal against me, you can stop
    typing now... :)\r\n\r\nBut there is nothing manipulatory in what I mean is going
    on. Of course there can be, but it is not necessary. Typography is really a good
    example. Take the letter A. There is nothing about that shape of ink on a piece
    of what we call paper that forces humans to identify is as an A - were it not
    for the fact that humans by convention have agreed that it is an A and that it
    symbolises one of the sounds that humans utter when they try to communicate. Thus,
    giving that shape of ink the meaning of representing said sound (in its variations)
    enables humans to communicate without opening their mouths. That's what I mean
    by socially constructed. It's a collective understanding, it's shared knowledge.
    But it is so only by virtue of humans having 'agreed' upon it. The sound in question
    could just as easily have been represented by another symbol. Just as the meaning
    of words evolve over time. \r\n\r\nPerhaps I am stating the obvious here, but
    I just kept on writing by pure habit. :) \r\n\r\nPS. I ignore whether 'the Big
    Lie' refers to any historical lie in particular."
  created: '2008-08-26 19:06:45'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: For what it's worth, some of these arguments also got hashed out on [[http://www.typophile.com/node/38947|this
    thread]].
  created: '2008-08-26 19:41:07'
- author:
    name: Nicole Dotin
    picture: 110879
  body: "Nick, I understood you meant no offense and I wasn't trying to jump to Eric's
    defense. I think maybe we're hinting at the same thing, that competitions in their
    make-up, execution or otherwise can be flawed and the results won't necessarily
    reflect the intentions, in this case to represent a city.\r\n\r\n> How? Do you
    mean that the winning Twin face is not being used locally to represent the city
    but Locator is?\r\n\r\nNot really that Locator <em>is</em> being used (because
    I don't think Locator represents the Twin Cities any better than Twin), but, yes,
    that the Twin typeface wasn't locally adopted. And, it may never have been intended
    for wide release in the first place which would have hampered its use across the
    city. My only point is that one can attempt to create a typeface to express a
    culture, but cultural resonance is, in part, created through a long association
    with something and you can't create that overnight nor can you always predict
    what will stick.\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-26 20:28:35'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: "One of the ways culture is expressed is language. Typography is the visualization
    of language, it is informed by the culture it represents.\r\n\r\nAs most countries
    are a soup of different cultural influences and expressions, the difficultly you
    may have is finding a single accurate cultural representation. This is why designing
    a national flag is so difficult and potentially divisive.\r\n\r\nInteresting problem.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2008-08-26 22:28:07'
- author:
    name: begsini
    picture: 110929
  body: "<cite>It\u2019s still a stupid project, because if the agenda is empowerment,
    it doesn\u2019t address that issue, but distracts.</cite>\r\n\r\nNick, who said
    anything about the \"agenda\" being \"empowerment?\" Certainly not Lindsay in
    her original post. \r\n\r\nFurthermore, Lindsay is a STUDENT, and call me crazy,
    but I'm certain one could learn a lot by researching this, and isn't that the
    point of studying?\r\n\r\nI know you're a respected member of the Typophile community,
    but it seems you're projecting some personal baggage onto the idea of this project,
    and I think you're being a bit of a jerk in the process.\r\n\r\nWith all due respect.
    \r\n\r\njarrod\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-27 00:41:14'
- author:
    name: Allison_J
    picture: 114895
  body: "[[http://digital.realviewtechnologies.com/default.asp?iid=8356&startpage=page0000094&xml=dinz.xml|Here's
    something that may be relevant:]] the typeface created by Auckland, New Zealand-based
    Alt Group for the Pacific Contemporary group Black Grace. The Pacific tattoo-like
    shapes are contained within \"forms based on the geometric faces of the early
    twentieth century\". So we've got multiple periods and cultures referenced in
    this typeface, which is certainly appropriate for a Pacific Contemporary dance
    group.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-27 02:10:57'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "<em> can many different cultures be reflected in a display typeface </em>\r\n\r\nNot
    a stupid project. Any human activity such as typeface design reflects something
    of the culture in which it occurs. In the case of several different cultures interacting
    one approach is to find the common denominator between them i.e. simplification.
    \ The typography of El Lissitzky and the Bauhaus reflects a wish to distill new
    design concepts out of the old Europe, transcending cultural differences. \r\n\r\nThe
    hybrid approach is another way of going about it. Mix design elements from different
    cultures existing in a given society. I guess that is what you have in mind? Roman
    letters with Maori-inspired spirals for serifs is one obvious example (I do not
    know if this has been done). The trouble with this approach is that it often -
    but not always - leads to kitsch- there are innumerable examples of Latin alphabets
    twisted and tweaked  to look like Chinese, Arabic, Cyrillic, Hebrew or other scripts.
    You see those in some movie or book titles and travel posters  to provide a cheap
    exotic look.\r\n\r\nA more subtle approach may be possible, and it requires sensitivity
    and creativity, but this has to be worked out carefully: people are very conservative
    when it comes to changes in type design, and the basics of legibility have to
    be always considered. Also there will always be those who will try to view such
    a project in terms of  their own political agenda, but that is unavoidable."
  created: '2008-08-27 02:17:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "My apologies, \"stupid\" is too strong.\r\n\r\nI said \"if\" empowerment
    is the agenda. \r\nSo yes, I was reading between the lines, cutting to the chase
    and assuming that Lindsay feels local culture is under-expressed in design, and
    that perhaps a display type can be created to remedy that. Social conscience is
    a virtue, and is encouraged in design students.\r\n\r\nA lot can be learned by
    studying anything. There will be differences of opinion about \"subtle\" and \"interesting\"
    questions. But is this relevant?\r\n\r\nLearning how to communicate with different
    audiences is a part of design. Representing diversity is a part of that, and it's
    laudable. Certainly, minorities are more represented now in mainstream media than
    they were in the past, here, and I expect in New Zealand too. That's progress,
    but what comes next? How do we get more of the diversity representing themselves?\r\n\r\nWith
    respect to type, what bearing does studying whether a typeface can reflect national
    culture have on whether the type designs of a nation are used in its own media,
    which, by any measure, is the most direct way that type can represent culture?\r\n\r\nSo
    Lindsay, why not ask, Can a Kiwi student design a typeface for a New Zealand publication/ad
    campaign/corporate identity?-- because <em>you</em> are the culture, not them,
    the \"cultural masses\". \r\n\r\nA company identity, like that for Black Grace,
    shows that narrowing the focus to specific documents for a specific client can
    work very well, providing a solid raison d'\xEAtre and functional environment
    for a typeface. But it's only one facet of the mosaic; can it represent the whole?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-27 03:36:09'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: "\"I know you\u2019re a respected member of the Typophile community, but it
    seems you\u2019re projecting some personal baggage onto the idea of this project,
    and I think you\u2019re being a bit of a jerk in the process.\"\r\n\r\n\r\nBravo
    Jarrod!"
  created: '2008-08-27 19:41:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> you are the culture\r\n\r\nNo, no <em>individual</em> can be that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-27 21:06:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "What baggage? I'm trying to relate to where this student is coming from,
    and his/her attitude of social conscience.\r\n\r\nOK, my first post was a bit
    indie-foundry-centric, but I was thinking more of the study part of the project,
    not the type design part of it.\r\n\r\nIf Lindsay is to make real progress, it
    won't be by getting bogged down in something where many people have commented
    on \"the difficulty ... finding a single accurate cultural representation.\"\r\n\r\nI'm
    suggesting an alternative.\r\nInstead of working on refining the appropriation
    of ethnic signifiers, so one can do a really professional job of nailing the \"cultural
    masses\", like Alt Group, why not represent oneself? Everyone is a product of
    their own culture, so if you're true to yourself, your work will be an authentic
    representation of your culture.\r\n\r\nThere are no easy answers, because all
    the cultural groups we're member of overlap. If the Euro kids have tribal tats... "
  created: '2008-08-27 21:24:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">> you are the culture\r\n\r\n>No, no individual can be that.\r\n\r\nRight.
    But surely a culture that is the sum of individuals being themselves is more authentic
    than one where a few represent eveybody. "
  created: '2008-08-27 21:46:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Instead of working on refining the appropriation of ...\r\n\r\nThis seems
    highly contrived to serve a private agenda.\r\n\r\n> ... one where a few represent
    eveybody.\r\n\r\nNot a few; everybody represents everybody, if only as best as
    possible.\r\n\r\nYes, be yourself, but don't ignore that groups of people are
    things too, even if you can't be sure of who's exactly what.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-27 22:10:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...private agenda...</em>\r\n\r\nPerhaps we need some clarification on
    the agenda, if I haven't scared Lindsay off..."
  created: '2008-08-27 23:31:55'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: "\"why not represent oneself? Everyone is a product of their own culture,
    so if you\u2019re true to yourself, your work will be an authentic representation
    of your culture.\"\r\n\r\nPersonally I am tired of 'me culture'. \r\nMy Space,
    Big Brother, Survivor, it's all so vain and shallow.\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-28 00:00:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "And just when I was getting ready to unleash my Killer Product on\r\nthe
    masses: the MeMyselfAndIPhone. Its entire surface is a mirror,\r\nand the built-in
    camera only takes pictures of its owner.* Plus it\r\ncomes with a new messaging
    system called iYak: subscribers get to\r\nsend one of 9 factory-preset text messages
    to everybody in their\r\naddress book all at once, and subscribers see all such
    text messages\r\ndisplayed simultaneously (without information about who sent
    it,\r\ncoz it doesn't really matter, girlfriend). iYak text messages are set\r\nin
    a point size proportional to how many text messages that user\r\nhas sent in the
    past billing cycle.\r\n\r\n* If you mistakenly hit the button while the camera
    is pointed away,\r\nit plays a recorded \"I Miss You!\" (in your voice) at full
    volume.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-28 00:21:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Personally I am tired of \u2019me culture\u2019.</em>\r\n\r\nWell, there's
    always <a href=\"http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/news/world/asia/article3162656.ece\">practising
    smiling three hours a day to the strains of Enya.</a>"
  created: '2008-08-28 00:49:41'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "<cite> Consider this: in Italy we still have a lot of public buildings with
    fascist era lettering. I don\u2019t know if there is something inherently fascist
    in that style but for my mind the association is a real thing and when I see something
    similar I find it disgusting. </cite>\r\n\u2026while I find it thoroughly wonderful.
    Fascism, for better or worse, has been part of our culture, and you should be
    able to discern what gives value and what vilifies it. Especially as an Italian.\r\n\r\n<cite>
    Since most of the world wasn\u2019t familiar with blackletter they switched to
    roman. </cite>\r\nI seem to recall they substituted it with Futura (see the book
    \"Blackletter and National Identity\" by Peter Bain and Paul Shaw), whose part
    of inherent legibility as a text face is highly disputable (especially its lowercase).
    I suspect many blackletter styles would actually be more usable, especially the
    more simplified.\r\nAn example of what I was saying about Fascism, applied to
    Nazism: in many ways, Italian Fascism left good building blocks of heritage, as
    it may happen with dictatorial regimes. Nazism did some good things, but the choice
    over lettering was esasperated by the ever-repeating idea of Hebrew prosecution.
    I seem to recall they dropped blackletter styles by saying they were of \"jewish
    heritage\" or something like that, after they have been part of their culture
    for ages.\r\n\r\nYes, definitely culture is not \"individual\", but it neither
    appears to me \"determined by the mass\"\u2026\r\nI found a book about Louis Dollot
    which spoke of this juxtaposition: individual culture and mass culture. I don't
    know if in English exists. It should be titled \"Culture individuelle et culture
    de masse\", and it's from 1974 (my Italian edition is from 1976)."
  created: '2008-11-13 15:12:21'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "piccic,\r\n\r\n<cite>...in Italy...</cite>\r\n\r\nClaudio,\r\n\r\nAre you
    familiar with reprints of Hebrew type designs in Italy. As you may know, many
    Hebrew type designs were created in Italy in the early nineteenth centur and even
    earlier. \r\n\r\nIn fact, in the famous American type designer, Frederick Goudy's
    book of type design, he describe how the owners of the Lithuanian printing press
    came to Italy, to a school of type design of some of Giambattista Bodoni's students
    in order to have drawings of ancient Hebrew type designs cut into cold typefaces
    for their ambitious project to publish a new standard edition of the Talmud. \r\n\r\nSince
    World War Two, originals from the third edition of this version of the Talmud
    have been photographed, and the photographs have been photographed, and so on,
    until this very day.\r\n\r\nI am working on a project to recreate electronically
    and interactively this edition, plus to add many new and useful features that
    will appeal to most educated readers worldide.\r\n\r\nFind out more at www.gotalmud.org."
  created: '2008-11-13 15:53:32'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "<cite>Are you familiar with reprints of Hebrew type designs in Italy. As
    you may know, many Hebrew type designs were created in Italy in the early nineteenth
    centur and even earlier.</cite>\r\n\r\nI have seen the ones which are in the \"Manuale
    Tipografico\" (I own a copy of the Octavo excellent digital edition gracefully
    given to me as a gift by Alan Dague-Greene).\r\nThe Hebrew looks good, the Greek
    is often \"Latinized\", as they would say\u2026\r\n\r\nI guess they are the ones
    used in that Talmud. Bodoni was the no. 1 referring figure in Italy at the time\u2026
    Keep me informed, it's a great work and I'm very ignorant."
  created: '2008-11-13 18:51:50'
date: '2008-08-23 00:04:32'
title: Can a typeface reflect a culture

---
