---
author:
  name: sasapetrova
  picture: 115714
body: "I have just uploaded a PDF file with alternate lunate sigmas and epsilons.\r\n\r\nI
  extend my thanks to all those who have posted their comments and helped me so far
  with their critique.\r\n\r\nSemele is a book text typeface. Semele Book or Semele
  Regular are the weights to be finally used as book text typefaces with the relationship
  between the cap height and that of the acscenders and descenders readjusted; currently
  I am working on that.\r\n\r\nI would like to add that originally the Semele Latin
  characters were designed in such a way that they would be the basis for the subsequent
  design of Old Style Greek characters which \u2014 for book text usage in Greek Classical
  Typography \u2014 are always designed in a calligraphic way as in Monotype Greek
  Upright 90, Greek Times Ten, Times New Roman, Minion and other.\r\n\r\nAs the typeface
  will be also used as a Greek book text, its finalized name has come from Greek mythology.
  Semele (\u03A3\u03B5\u03BC\u03AD\u03BB\u03B7) was one of the four daughters of Cadmus
  who was credited by Herodotus with the invention of the alphabet and other useful
  things.\r\n\r\nI would be very happy to read your further comments and critique.\r\n\r\nThanks\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "This is very polished. Nice work! I employed the same serif detail in a text
    face I designed called <a href=\"http://www.aquatoad.com/portfolio.php?section_id=3&subsection_id=5&portfolio_id=24\">Eason</a>.
    Although I reversed the \"pen\" action for a more forward motion, though you accomplish
    this with flaring the stems. Not sure it matters much at text sizes. Here are
    some pointers, much of it preference:\r\n\r\n1. I wonder if the bowl and counter
    of the a shouldn't be more equally balanced.\r\n2. crossbar of the F could come
    down a hair compared to E and right serif could be lengthened.\r\n3. For a book
    type you may want a smaller x height (making the ascenders and descenders longer
    serves the same purpose)."
  created: '2008-08-23 20:49:13'
- author:
    name: sasapetrova
    picture: 115714
  body: Thank you very much Randy for your critique. I will follow your advice and
    try out what you suggest in the next version of Thetis.
  created: '2008-08-24 07:02:25'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Two things I forgot to mention. The 6 9 combination looks like it's identical
    but rotated. The 6 looks ok, but the nine is top heavy to me. I think you'll need
    widen/open the bottom counter to make it sit better. Otherwise the numerals are
    quite an achievement. The right side of the cap U is too dark for me. It should
    be thin like the stems on the N.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-24 22:27:09'
- author:
    name: sasapetrova
    picture: 115714
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Thetis_Light_Version_2_6140.png]\r\n\r\nThanks
    again Randy for your additional critique and suggestions. I have applied them
    all and I am posting now Thetis Light Version 2.0. In case you notice some more
    things to be fixed or improved please let me know.\r\n\r\nLooking at the numerals,
    I realized that number 3 may need to look more straight and it should be rotated
    2-3 degress to the right. The upper horizontal strokes of 5 and 7 would look better
    if they were a little thicker. Numbers 2, 5, 6, and 8 should become more refined.
    What do you think?\r\n\r\nI opened the Eason pdf file and looked for a long time
    at your exquisitely drawn typeface and I definitely love the way you have drawn
    your serifs so ingeniously.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Thetis_Light_Alterations_4913.png]"
  created: '2008-08-25 11:15:09'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Very very nice font!\r\n\r\nI love your \u2018a\u2019s!!\r\n\r\nStefan"
  created: '2008-08-25 15:33:04'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "I like a.5 best I think as it best balances area 1 and 2 while keeping the
    flavor of your original a.\r\n\r\nU is better in second picture.\r\n\r\nDesc/Ascenders
    are better.\r\n\r\n9 is still not fixed. The closed counter (top) is too small
    vertically, and the bottom needs more width: the curve of the tail starts too
    early I think and the end doesn't go far enough left. \r\n\r\nF: crossbar even
    lower. Make the top of the F crossbar at the bottom of the E crossbar. Also the
    foot serif, right side make him wider or the whole letter will fall over to the
    right! Also helps a little with the white hole under the F.\r\n\r\ny: consider
    a bit more weight in the end of the tail.\r\n\r\nx: cut this stroke ( / ) in the
    middle and move the bottom left leg to the left maybe 20 em units. Same for cap
    X\r\n\r\nSomehow this reminds me of Diotima, but more suitable for text. Nice
    job!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-26 01:17:43'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "By the way..the \u2018a\u2019s:\r\n\r\nI definitely do not like no a.6.\r\na.2.
    is too baroque.\r\n\u2018Original a\u2019 is too Meta.\r\n\r\nI\u2019d go for
    no a.4\r\n\r\nCiao\r\nStefano"
  created: '2008-08-27 08:27:08'
- author:
    name: sasapetrova
    picture: 115714
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/V3_Thetis_Light_Next_Alterations_5444.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/V3_Thetis_Light_Next_4448.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nThanks
    again Randy. I applied all you suggested as best as I could. I added a few alternate
    forms for certain characters. Number \u20189\u2019 needs some more redesigning
    I reckon. \r\n\r\nAt this point I would like to add that the Thetis Latin characers
    were deisigned in such a way so that they would be the basis for the subsequent
    design of Greek characters which - for book text usage - are always designed in
    a calligraphic way as in Greek Times Ten, Times New Roman,  Minion and other.
    In order to design such a typeface I observed for quite some time Hiroshige, Carmina,
    Diotima and RTF Isabelle. Are there other typefaces like those?\r\n\r\nWhen one
    inserts a picture here what is the ideal resolution and size? Is it possible to
    insert a PDF file instead? I tried for qute some time to create the right kind
    of image file but it never comes out as nice and sharp as the other image files
    posted here.\r\n\r\nWhenever we are done with the fine tuning of Thetis Roman
    I could post right afterwards the Thetis Italic which are ready. Please let me
    know.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/V3_The_Nine_6208.jpg]"
  created: '2008-08-27 08:57:34'
- author:
    name: sasapetrova
    picture: 115714
  body: "Thanks for the \u201Ca\u2019s\u201D comments and the critique Stefano. Randy
    suggested that a.5 is the fittest. The a.4 that is your first choice, is somewhat
    similar to a.5. Do you have any comments at all about some of the other letters?
    Please let me know if you do. \r\n\r\nBy the way how does one go about inserting
    that square ID image after one\u2019s name here?\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-27 09:17:05'
- author:
    name: sasapetrova
    picture: 115714
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/V3_The_Nine_6594.jpg]\r\n\r\nRandy here
    are two superimposed 6's and 9's (Cheltenham Light and Century Schoolbook) and
    a diagram with dimensions for the Thetis '9'. so that you can tell me what has
    to be done next."
  created: '2008-08-27 09:25:59'
- author:
    name: sasapetrova
    picture: 115714
  body: Ooooooooops... Randy, the image file that I just inserted does not appear.
    It is 3M, is it too big or what?
  created: '2008-08-27 09:29:02'
- author:
    name: sasapetrova
    picture: 115714
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/V3_Web_The_Nine_5112.jpg]\r\n\r\nRandy
    here are once more (I hope that the image was inserted right this time) two superimposed
    6\u2019s and 9\u2019s (Cheltenham Light and Century Schoolbook) and a diagram
    with dimensions for the Thetis \u20199\u2019. so that you can tell me what has
    to be done next."
  created: '2008-08-27 09:48:27'
- author:
    name: Hannes Famira
    picture: 110283
  body: "What's your inspiration for the name. At first I thought it was a typo and
    you meant to write Thesis which of course is taken. Don't you think the two names
    are a little close for comfort? Naming is hard. Didn't Jonathan or Tobias write
    a piece about font naming at some point?\r\n\r\nSomething else, not sure how you
    feel about this but check this out: compare the notch on the top left of the n
    or m to the one on the bottom of the a. I think I would increase the one on the
    a. Just pull the branching of the counter up a bit. That will keep it more legible
    in small sizes too."
  created: '2008-08-27 15:45:53'
- author:
    name: sasapetrova
    picture: 115714
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/V5_Web_Thetis_a_notch_6339.jpg]\r\n\r\nThank
    you Hannes for all comments. You are absolutely right about the name, it is definitely
    confusing. As the typeface will be also used for Greek book text, the final and
    name should come from Greek mythology names, it will be probably the name of a
    nymph, or goddess or a city. I will alter it as soon as it practically possible.\r\n\r\nAbout
    the notch at the bottom of \u2018a\u2019 I will check it out, here are 3 alternate
    \u2018a\u2019s that I came up with after applying your suggestion that it would
    be better if \u2018a\u2019 was redesigned to be legible at small sizes as well.\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-27 21:31:44'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Hi. We are getting into matters of preference here. You have very good instincts
    as the typeface shows. Go with them. I don't think we are teaching you anything.
    We're just expressing our likes and dislikes. This includes the discussion of
    the 9 and a, plus the alternate forms you suggest. Technically, the xX and F are
    better now.\r\n\r\nConsider letting this rest for a while, and by all means we'd
    love to see the italic."
  created: '2008-08-27 22:24:46'
- author:
    name: sasapetrova
    picture: 115714
  body: "Thank you very much Randy, Hannes and Stefan for your help, insights and
    valuable advice. You gave me the chance to clarify quite a number of points that
    I wasn't so certain about for the finalization of the design of \"Thetis Roman\".\r\n\r\nI
    will have to give a new name to \"Thetis' as is is quite easily being confused
    with \"Thesis\". Like I mentioned earlier the new and final name will come from
    the Greek mythology. \r\n\r\nRandy, as I have written earlier, besides the Latin
    characters of \"ThetisRoman\" I have also designed the Greek characters. The same
    applies for the \"ThetisItalic\". \r\n\r\nShould I send next the Greek upright
    characters for critique or the italic Latin characters and then follow up with
    then follow up with the Greek characters for the Roman and the Italic at the same
    time?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-28 11:14:23'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: 'I won''t be of much help on the Greek I''m afraid. Maybe start two new threads:
    Thetis Greek and Thetis Italic.'
  created: '2008-08-29 01:42:55'
- author:
    name: Hannes Famira
    picture: 110283
  body: 'Natasa, I love ''a'' No. 3! Awesome! If I may follow up (please feel free
    to tell me to back off), I would now compare the treatment you gave to the ''a''
    with the analog situation in the ''u''. '
  created: '2008-08-29 15:36:35'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Hi,\r\n\r\nYes, I think you are right. a No 5 is good as well! It is similar.\r\nSorry,
    but I didn\u2019t have the time to come closer to the other ones.\r\nBut let me
    say that at first glance I also enjoyed very much the numbers you made!\r\n\r\nCompliments
    again.\r\nNice work!\r\n\r\nStefan\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-01 11:03:05'
- author:
    name: sasapetrova
    picture: 115714
  body: "The name \u2018Thetis\u2019 that I had originally chosen for this typeface
    is definitely confusing - as Hannes pointed out it is being easily confused with
    \u2018Thesis\u2019. The Thetis Latin characters were deisigned in such a way so
    that they would be the basis for the subsequent design of Greek characters which
    - for book text usage - are always designed in a calligraphic way as in Greek
    Times Ten, Times New Roman, Minion and other.\r\n\r\nAs the typeface will be mainly
    used for Greek book text, the final name should come from Greek mythology names,
    it will be probably the name of a nymph, or goddess or a city. At this point I
    would like to alter it, and after checking at www.identifont.com, I have come
    up with the following names that have not been used so far:\r\n\r\n\t\tAlcmene\r\n\t\tCassiopea\r\n\t\tCastalia\r\n\t\tChloe\r\n\t\tDanae\r\n\t\tErato\r\n\t\tIphigenia\r\n\t\tIsmene\r\n\t\tLeta\r\n\t\tLeda\r\n\t\tPhoebe\r\n\t\tSemele\r\n\r\nCould
    you please help me and choose the right name for \u2018Thetis\u2019 among the
    above or even suggest another name for it.\r\n\r\nSoon, I will be posting for
    your critique, ThetisItalic and ThetisGreekRoman and Italic.\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-06 09:16:07'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Let's see ... Alcmene sounds odd, Cassiopea is a mouthful, Castalia sounds
    too much like Castilia for my taste, Chl\xF6e surely has already been used right?
    \ In any case that sounds like a handwriting font.  Dan\xE4e is a bastard nymph
    whose name means \"parched\" (according to wikipedia) and that doesn't fit.  Erato
    sounds like eratus to me, but this is a full body principal text so... Iphigenia..riiiiiiight.
    \ Ismene sounds like it'd be a formal script font.  Leta sounds like Star Trek
    dabo girl, Leda, eh, too short in any case.  Phoebe possible and Semele.... wait...
    perfect.  Her Roman name is Stimula, which for a calligraphic Greek version could
    go perfect.  Especially since the light version feels well, light, and agile which
    could definitely go with a name like Stimula so.... Semele it is.  It has a nice
    timeless look, and the daughter of Semele (e.g. all documents set it in) was immortal.
    \ The only downside would be that Semele is not actually a Greek name, rather
    (again according to Wikipedia) Thraco-Phrygian which might have made it a better
    suited name for a non-Greek designer and I'm guessing by your profile you're Greek
    (side note: I could use a critique on my Greek font haha)\r\n\r\nIn any case,
    I think Semele works well.  Above all to my ears it sounds the least girly-girl
    (read: Curlz)  of the fonts and more like a nice robust formal font (think hot
    conservative librarian).\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que
    \r\napenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por
    Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-09-06 09:44:13'
- author:
    name: sasapetrova
    picture: 115714
  body: "Thank you very much Guifa for your suggestions and insights about the final
    naming of Thetis. Needless to say that as I was reading your comments about the
    names in my list I kept smiling because I found what you wrote interesting and
    humorous.\r\nTo know more about these names one should read through the pages
    of the Greek Mythology by Robert Graves, as his leading authority on this subject.\r\nMy
    personal preferences among the names in the list were: Castalia, Erato and Semele.
    After reading what you wrote and serious consideration I have decided to name
    my typeface Semele.\r\nSince you say that you could use a critique on your Greek
    typeface I am posting there today my comments.\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-09 15:53:39'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Yeah the only main mythology book I went through was a \"worldwide\" Mythologies
    book (90% Greek) by some lady.  Edith something I think.  I'll have to check out
    his book.\r\n\r\nAlso re whether you should post italic or the greek next, either
    works.  If your Greek is very close in style to the Roman, that might be better.
    \ If it's looser in feel like a lot of Greek-Roman fonts, maybe Italic first then
    the Greek one.  We'll be here to look it over in any case :)\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-09-09 17:53:37'
- author:
    name: sasapetrova
    picture: 115714
  body: "Thanks again Guifa for your input. Edith Hamilton is the name of the lady
    you were talking about, she wrote quite a scholarly Greek Mythology. Robert Graves,
    on the other habd, wrote about Greek Mythology in an absolutely daring and spiced
    up style, his writings make a reat reading. \r\n\r\nMy Greek 'Semele' (aka Thetis)
    characters are actually very close to the Roman although they are slightly looser
    in feel tham most of the Old Style Greek Roman typefaces such as  Times Ten. Monotype
    Greek Upright 90, TimesNewRoman etc. So, I will follow your advice in respect
    to the order that I will be posting SemeleGreekRoman, SemeleItalic and SemeleGreekItalic.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-10 06:23:10'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "\x7FThis is a wonderful italic!  Extremely well polished. I especially like
    the small upturn that the E and F have.\r\n\r\nNow, as to your alternate characters,
    I think the f, j, and y should have the same terminal roughly.  So you could keep
    f.1, the j, and y.2, but use a slightly thinner terminal on y.2.  Or go with the
    ball terminal in f.2 and y.1 and make one for j.\r\n\r\nz.2 is the better of the
    Zs for this style, the other two seem a bit heavy since they're not descending.
    \ \r\n\r\nThe tail on m is thinner than the others.\r\n\r\nThe o seems to be slanted
    without getting its due stress.  By that I mean, all the other bowls have or appear
    to have a diagonal stress, but the o looks like it has a vertical stress.\r\n\r\n2
    gets too thing, and 4 might be a bit too thick on its diagonal.\r\n\r\nI like
    that the 3, 5, and 9 have different terminals, but since the rest of the font
    is consistent with its building blocks, I'd choose one of the three and use the
    same style.  Personally I prefer 9's.  3's is a bit anemic.\r\n\r\nI'm guessing
    it's by design, but just to make sure you intended it, B, D, E, and L have stubbier
    serifs on their left stems than F, H, K, N, R, T.  \r\n\r\nI hope that helps.
    \ Any chance we can get a sample of text in it?\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una
    l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB.
    (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-09-16 16:28:04'
- author:
    name: sasapetrova
    picture: 115714
  body: "Guifa hi, thank you very much for replying so promptly and in such a great
    detail.\r\n\r\nI agree with you about all you say about the alternate characters.
    You have made many points about m, o, 2, 3, 4, 3, 5, 9. I have started working
    on them; also I am checking the \u2018stubbier serifs\u2019 inconsistencies between
    B, D, E, L and F, H, K, N, R, T in order to fix them.\r\n\r\nThere is one point
    about which I am not quite clear about. This one \u201CThe o seems to be slanted
    without getting its due stress. By that I mean, all the other bowls have or appear
    to have a diagonal stress, but the o looks like it has a vertical stress.\u201D\r\n\r\nI
    do understand what your words convey but I am not so sure what to do about it,
    could you please (if you have the time) send me some alternate drawings showing
    how the \u2018o\u2019 should have been drawn?\r\n\r\nI am posting several variations
    of o\u2019s placed in between a\u2019s in case one of them is what you had in
    mind. On the other hand there is also the capital O and the character zero, maybe
    one of them comes morphologically close to what you said about the readjusting
    the shape of o.\r\n\r\nI have also added a text sample of the Semele(Thetis) Italic
    (the current version without the type-face-lifting that you suggested as it might
    take some time to do.\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-17 19:19:54'
- author:
    name: Nymus
    picture: 115962
  body: "Semele, is basically a very beautiful typeface, and its name is very well
    chosen and quite symbolic.\r\n\r\nIt does need some more enhancing along the lines
    that Randy and Guifa suggested. I do have some suggestions myself.\r\n\r\nIn the
    Semele Light Roman\r\n\r\nThe \u2018o\u2019 I believe that it should stay as you
    designed it originally.\r\n\r\nThe middle bar of \u2018E\u2019 and \u2018F\u2019
    is charmingly novel and well thought of, I would use something similar in \u2018f\u2019
    and t\u2019 and in the florin.\r\n\r\nThe leg in capital \u2018R\u2019 could have
    also been designed like the leg in \u2018K\u2019. If you keep is as it is then
    this particular curvy stroke must be redesigned to look somehow more calligraphic
    and or more uniformly drawn. \r\n\r\nThe tail of \u2018Q\u2019 could be mad a
    little more emphatic, maybe longer and more horizontal.\r\n\r\nI agree with Randy
    about the \u2018a\u2019, a.5 definitely is the best. \r\n\r\nNumeral \u20186\u2019
    looks a bit crude compared to the well designed and balanced \u20189\u2019, also
    the bowl in \u20186\u2019 should be 15-25 em higher than it is.\r\n\r\nNumeral
    \u20183\u2019 needs skewing 2-3 units to the right as it looks as if it is tilted
    to the left.\r\n\r\nNumeral \u20182\u2019 the curve-stroke part that joins with
    the horizontal bar at the baseline could be improved a little more.\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s
    all for the moment. \r\n\r\nI am quite eager to take a look at the SemeleGreek,
    the roman and the Italic, could you please post them if they are ready. Also post
    the Semele Italic when you finish the alterations that Guifa suggested, so that
    I take a good look at it.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-02 07:57:47'
- author:
    name: sasapetrova
    picture: 115714
  body: "Thank you Nymus for your remarks, I will look into them as soon as I have
    some time for it. I just posted two pages from Lucian\u2019s \u2018The Consonants
    at Law\u2019 set in the beta version of SemeleGreek and I would love to hear your
    thoughts about it."
  created: '2008-10-02 13:25:35'
- author:
    name: Nymus
    picture: 115962
  body: "Great idea to choose \u2018The Consonants at Law\u2019 the most appropriate
    among Lucian\u2019s work and set it in Semele Light. It looks quite nice and yet
    as I happen to have the Loeb edition of Lucian\u2019s work, I compared the same
    pages with your pages and noticed that you have set the titles and the body text
    in smaller point sizes. \r\nAs far as I can see, the typeface is too light for
    body text, later on you could set it in Semele Book; the ascenders and the descenders
    could be increased by 20 -50 em. The Greek Semele Light Italic look as if they
    are a little wider that the Latin Semele Light Italic, but maybe this doesn\u2019t
    matter a lot.\r\nCould you please set your pages with the same text and title
    sizes as in the Loeb edition and also (later on) if possible, in Polytonic (Extended)
    Greek, so that I can look at them more closely? Plus, it would be quite nice if
    you add the footnotes and whatever else you have omitted from the pages.\r\nI
    have just posted to you the two pages (396 -397) of Lucian\u2019s Works from the
    Loeb edition so that you can see for yourself how I was set typographically.\r\nI
    would like to take a closer look at the full Greek alphabet.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/396TCAL72_4258.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/397TCAL72_4841.jpg]"
  created: '2008-10-02 19:49:52'
- author:
    name: sasapetrova
    picture: 115714
  body: "Hi Nymus,\r\n\r\nI just posted pages 394 \u2013 397 from Lucian\u2019s \u2018The
    Consonants at Law\u2019 set it in Semele (Thetis) Light and as close as possible
    to the point sizes of the original Loeb edition.\r\nI have also posted an updated
    version 10.0 of Semele (Thetis) Light Roman and Italic with Latin and Greek characters.
    I haven\u2019t finished yet some of the changes that I had in mind and also all
    those that you pointed out; It will be done in the near future. Therefore, now
    you can take a closer look at the design of the Greek letterforms and post your
    comments.\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-07 19:41:55'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: I like this; it's very elegant. I noticed one small problem, though. The capital
    theta symbol (03F4) in your PDF looks the same as the ordinary Theta. It has to
    be clearly distinct, and it's generally expected to have a full-width crossbar.
    It is intended for use by mathematicians, who (bless their hearts) like to use
    two different shapes of the same letter as semantically distinct symbols in the
    same document.
  created: '2008-10-08 11:58:18'
- author:
    name: Nymus
    picture: 115962
  body: "SemeleGreekLight Roman Version 10.0 - Some suggestions(Based partly on your
    AlternateDesignOfGreekCharacters PDF file attachment)\r\n\r\nThe pages 394-397
    from Lucian\u2019s \u2018The Consonants at law\u2019 that you uploaded are very
    nice, congratulations. You kept to the original layout as best as anyone could.
    You realize of course that (as Randy pointed out) SemeleLight isn\u2019t good
    enough as a weight to use it as book text typeface, you will have to design also
    a Book or a Regular weight for that; also a Bold weight. The Cap height should
    be increased a little and correspondingly the height of the ascenders and descenders.\r\n\r\nIn
    relation to the overall design of the Semele Greek characters, admittedly the
    typeface is quite nice and polished, some characters are designed excellently
    and some others could be improved.  I have found out that the only Greek typefaces
    that are universally accepted and admired are all those that are digitized from
    hot metal types designed by great masters such as Bodoni, Baskeville and others
    and some of the typefaces that you have in your PDF \u2018AlternateDesignOfGreekCharacters\u2019.
    \r\nAll those typefaces have some of their letterform characteristics (hooks,
    blobs etc) enlarged in ways similar to the enlargement of facial characteristics
    in caricatures, this keeps the individual style of the typeface quite strong even
    at small point sizes, this is very important. In the Greek Semele these particular
    characteristics need to be strengthened quite some more.\r\nIn other words the
    Greel Semele characters need a bit of a little more enhancing in their characteristics
    and also to have in some characters a novel morphology (like the ones that you
    did with nu and kappa for Guifa) in order to be universally accepted by typographic
    scholars and be included in international digital libraries.\r\n\r\nIn view of
    all the above my suggestions for enhancing the Greek characters of Semele are
    the following:\r\n\r\n\r\nSigma - Move the middle point 20-30 em to the right
    and downwards\r\nPhi - Move the whole oval of Phi a little downwards\r\nalpha
    - Better to use another Oldstylish form (Lambrakis or Optima) \r\ngamma - Make
    it more balanced vertically \r\ndelta - Better to use a more Oldstylish form (Apla
    or Porson or TimesTen)\r\nepsilon - Excellent letterform\r\nzeta - Keep the epsilon-esque
    curve-endings but it would be better to use a more Oldstylish form (Apla or Papyrus
    or Porson)\r\neta - The eta needs something but I can\u2019t figure it out yet,
    maybe an Oldstyle form as in Apla or Katsoulides\r\ntheta - Make the top and bottom
    more pointed\r\niota - make this \u2018iota hook\u2019 parts in ALL lower case
    letters much more emphasized as in Apla, TimesTen, TimesNewRoman or Porson\r\nkappa
    - You can also use one of the exquisite \u2018kappa\u2019s that you posted to
    Guifa - kappa.3\r\nlambda - Excellent kappa and lambda\r\nnu - You can use instead
    one of the beautiful \u2018nu\u2019s that you posted to Guifa - nu.3 or nu.5\r\nxi-
    Keep the epsilon-esque curve-endings but it would be better to use a more Oldstylish
    form (Apla or Papyrus or Porson)\r\nrho - The end of the \u2018tail\u2019 of rho
    should be moved 20-30 em to the right\r\npi & tau \u2013 Excellent\r\nphi - Better
    to use another Oldstylish form (TimesTen or Papyrus)\r\nchi - Better to use another
    Oldstylish form (Apla or Katsoulides)\r\npsi - Move middle left curve point 20-30
    em upwards\r\nomega \u2013 Excellent letterform\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-08 16:20:40'
- author:
    name: Nymus
    picture: 115962
  body: I have some to say but no time at the moment. Keep up the good work.
  created: '2008-10-08 16:23:07'
- author:
    name: sasapetrova
    picture: 115714
  body: Thank you archaica you are absolutely right, I will fix the capital theta
    symbol (03F4).
  created: '2008-10-08 22:42:14'
- author:
    name: Nymus
    picture: 115962
  body: "In view of the eminent uplifting the morphology of your Greek characters
    for Semele Light Italic I am forwarding to you the following list as I think that
    it might benefit you greatly:\r\n\r\n1757 GFSBaskerville\r\n1790 GFSGazis\r\n1800
    GFSBodoniClassic\r\n1805 AplaDidotItalic\r\n1808 GFSPorson\r\n1850 GFSSolomos\r\n1917
    New Century Schlbk Greek Inclined\r\n1931 Times New Roman Italic\r\n1931 TimesTenGreekUpright\r\n1948
    PalatinoItalic\r\n1990 VergikiosScript\r\n1992 SabonGreekItalic\r\n1993 KatsoulidisItalic\r\n1995
    GFSOlga\r\n1996 ApolloniaItalic\r\n1999 BookAntiquaItalic\r\n2001 MinionProItalic\r\n2005
    GentiumItalic\r\n2005 ArnoProItalic\r\n2006 BucentoroGreek\r\n2006 CF Genesis\r\n\r\nThe
    dates that I have attached in front of each typeface name are approximately as
    exact as I could fathom. it wont be hard to find all these tyepfaces either as
    Truetype or as Opentype; most of them I am sure that you already have.\r\n\r\nIt
    would be a nice idea to extend your AlternateDesignOfGreekCharacters.pdf by complementing
    it with pages containing 16 of the italics in the above list.\r\n\r\n\r\nFor completing
    thoroughly all the Greek characters of the Extended Greek in Semele Light it would
    be a nice idea to add the following two Greek Diacritics:\r\n\r\n\u0374 \t&#884;
    0374 NUMERAL SIGN \r\n\u0375 \t&#885; 0375 LOWER NUMERAL SIGN \r\n\r\nAnd also
    check the morphology, size (for Greek capitals or lower case characters) and placing
    of the following diacritics:\r\n\r\n\u1FBD \t&#8125; 1FBD KORONIS \r\n\u1FBE \t&#8126;
    1FBE PROSGEGRAMMENI\r\n\u037A \t&#890; 037A YPOGEGRAMMENI\r\n \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-10 11:38:10'
- author:
    name: Hypatia
    picture: 116009
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hypatia_problem_5124.jpg]\r\n\r\nSemele
    has charm and elegance at the same time, and it moves me. I have been watching
    its development and maturing for quite some time. I liked very much the pages
    from \u2018The Consonants at law\u2019 that you uploaded. Quite a nice theme for
    setting its pages in Semele. Randy and Nymus are right of course about designing
    a book text weight for Semele. I am sure you are going to do it sooner or later.\r\n\r\nI
    have a favor to ask if I may. As you can guess from my ID, I collect \u2018Hypatian\u2019
    memorabilia. Could it be possible to design and set in Semele the page I am sending
    from the mathematical monograph \u2018Hypatia Problem, A generalized Pascal Theorem\u2019?
    The way that it was set typographically is rather banal, don\u2019t you think
    so too? The page size is 313 x 331 mm. Please send it if you find the time to
    do it in the near future as a PDF file. \r\n\r\nThank you very much in advance.\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-11 11:24:31'
- author:
    name: Nymus
    picture: 115962
  body: "I am adding some more suggestions for enhancing the Greek characters of Semele
    as I believe that you will find them helpful:\r\n\r\nchi \u2013 you might base
    its design on the basic morphology of kappa, just like the Aztec kappa you sent
    to Guifa.\r\n\r\nFor the rest of the characters (in case you run out of options)
    you might straighten up any of the Oldstyle Greek italics from the list that I
    have already sent you; this is what has be done for some characters in the Katsoulidis
    typeface, if I am not wrong.\r\n\r\nAnother option is to interpolate between two
    characters from the Oldstyle Greek italics and synthesize a innovative letterform.\r\n\r\nI
    am excitedly waiting to take a good look through the pages of your \u2018AlternateDesignOfOldstyleGreekItalicCharacters.pdf\u2019.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-12 10:24:21'
- author:
    name: sasapetrova
    picture: 115714
  body: "Hi Hypatia, I just uploaded two PDF files for you, the first one is at the
    size that you requested i.e 313 x 331 mm and the second at another size (170 x
    242 mm) which I found after googling \u2018Ferment Press\u2019 and \u2018Roy Lisker\u2019
    and downloading a number of PDF monographs by Roy Lisker . It would be nice if
    you could find and send me the test seems to be missing from the page you sent
    me, so that I include it also. \r\n\r\nThe resolution of the geometric diagram
    is not very good, you could redesign it if you wish in Adobe Illustrator and send
    it to me so that I can update the \u2018Hypatia Problem\u2019 PDFs and re-send
    them to you. \r\n"
  created: '2008-10-17 17:52:02'
- author:
    name: Hypatia
    picture: 116009
  body: "Thank you very \u2013 very much Natasha, I loved he \u2018Hypatian\u2019
    PDF pages enormously. You are right of course, the image resolution of the diagram
    wasn\u2019t very good, so I am doing what you suggested and I am designing in
    Illustrator the entire geometric diagram plus all letters (in TimesNewRoman) which
    you can exchange with Semele. Also, I am looking for the rest of the text on the
    page so that I can send it to you.\r\n\r\nI have had an idea (if it is not much
    trouble of course) as I did like a lot your Greek-English spread from \u2018The
    Consonants at Law\u2019, could it be possible to have a Greek translation on left
    and the English text on the right, plus some footnotes to give to the whole thing
    more charm?\r\n\r\nSending you asap the \u2018Hypatia_Geometric_diagram.ai\u2019
    and the text. \r\n"
  created: '2008-10-18 12:37:15'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Re the archaic file.  Both me and you have been taking similar approaches
    to qoppa and sampi.  I've found reference of two alternate shapes for them in
    an [[http://omega.enstb.org/yannis/pdf/boston99.pdf|old unicode proposal]].  For
    Qoppa, the uppercase has been designed as a reversed P (think like \u042F and
    R, but with P). For Sampi, it's like a Lambda but with a middle diagonal line
    going from the middle baseline up into the right arm (sort of like //\\ ).    That
    said I prefer the capitals that look a bit more like the lowercas, but I'll probably
    add the others as an alternate glyph  :P\r\n\r\nAlso for the Ypogegrammoni, I
    would go with the third or (preferably) forth option in the Semeli(Thetis)LightRomanItalic_Version_15Na.indd__0.pdf
    file.  The other three don't really match the font .  Also, in the case of eta,
    doesn't it tend to go a little more to the left, right underneath the left leg?\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-10-18 12:46:58'
- author:
    name: Nymus
    picture: 115962
  body: "Hello Natasha, I am sorry if my suggestions for enhancing the Greek characters
    of Semele proved to be \u2018a pain in...\u2019 but it is for the best, I hope
    you understand...\r\n\r\nBy the way Yiannis Haralambous has written extensively
    about Greek Digital Typography in the age of Unicode, go to this link:\r\n\r\nhttp://omega.enstb.org/yannis/pdf/\r\n\r\nAnd
    download whatever you find useful to you, I highly recommend the following:\r\n\r\naulos-aulos.pdf\r\nancgreek92.pdf\r\nyannis-greek-samples.pdf\r\n\r\nand
    especially:\r\n\r\namendments2.pdf \r\n\r\nThe above is unique and highly enlightening
    to all those designing Extended Greer typefaces.\r\n\r\nKeep up the great work.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-18 12:55:58'
- author:
    name: sasapetrova
    picture: 115714
  body: "Hey Guifa, thank you very - very much for your remarks and the link that
    you sent for the Ancient Greek Letterforms. I read most enthusiastically Boston99.pdf
    and amendments2.pdf and as I should I will redesign some of the Ancient Greek
    characters of Semele and I will also add whatever else is pointed out in those
    2 PDF files. \r\n\r\nYou are right about the third and fourth \u2018Ypogegrammeni\u2019,
    and the proper placing of it with eta, I will work on it some more.\r\n\r\nI am
    puzzled about the following topic though: the \u2018Koronis\u2019 and \u2018Psili\u2019
    diacritics look somewhat similar, have you figured out yet how they should be
    drawn? Are there any links and references at some place about it?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-19 09:03:28'
- author:
    name: sasapetrova
    picture: 115714
  body: "Yes. yes I will add the Greek translation and also include some footnotes,
    I did some massive googling about it and found quite a number of goodies about
    the relationship between Hypatia and Pascal's Theorem.ome footnotes, I did quite
    some \u2018googling\u2019 about it and found quite a number of goodies.\r\n\r\nI
    also found some awesome \u2018Hypatian\u2019 links that might be of breathtaking
    interest to you:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.math.ubc.ca/~hoek/Miscellany/Hypat/Play.html\r\nhttp://www.math.ubc.ca/~hoek/Miscellany/Hypat/Act1.html\r\nhttp://www.math.ubc.ca/~hoek/Miscellany/Hypat/Act2.html\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-19 09:26:25'
- author:
    name: Nymus
    picture: 115962
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Vergikios_lambda72_4436.jpg]\r\n\r\nHey
    Natasha, take a look at the exquisite lambda from Aggelos Vergikios calligraphy,
    it has a descender and NOT an ascender, you might do the Semele lambda that way,
    try it out and see how it feels like in body text.\r\n\r\nYou might get some ideas
    for other lower case Greek letters as well.\r\n\r\nBy the way Estienne's 'Grecs
    du Roi' (1544) were based on Aggelos Vergikios calligraphy. In the 'Grecs du Roi',
    lambda is used alternatively as an ascender or a descender.\r\n\r\nAggelos Vergikios
    was from Crete, you may google the guy. You will find very many interesting things
    about him.\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-20 08:53:13'
- author:
    name: sasapetrova
    picture: 115714
  body: "Thank you very much Nymus for Aggelos Vergikios lambdas, they are truly awesome.
    I will certainly try it out.\r\n\r\nI wish I had what you send me more clear and
    in higher resolution, is it possible?\r\n\r\nBy the way I am stil puzzled about
    how (and if) 'coronis' differs from 'psili' I posted a query here at Typophile
    (you too as I noticed) and nobody replied. Can you help me please?"
  created: '2008-10-21 08:02:34'
- author:
    name: Hypatia
    picture: 116009
  body: "Wow, the links that you sent me about that Hypatian play are trully amazing.
    I am going to design a Liver d' Artiste for it. Thanks a zillion. And if you agree
    I want to set the text in Semele. Please let me know what you think about it.
    \r\n\r\nI am sending you later on today the \u2018Hypatia_Geometric_diagram.ai\u2019
    \r\n\r\nBy the way, I saw your query about the \"Coronis and Psili?\" anf I googled
    a bit about it, one of the links that will make things clearer for you is:\r\n\r\nwww.tlg.uci.edu/~opoudjis/unicode/coronis.html
    \r\n\r\nHope to hear from you soon. Byeeeeeee.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-21 08:21:28'
- author:
    name: Nymus
    picture: 115962
  body: "Coronis and Psili\r\n\r\nIn view of your question about how coronis and psili
    should be designed I did some research and here is what I found out. I am sure
    that you will find it quite interesting.\r\n\r\nAccording to Nick Nicholas a Greek
    language linguist from Australia coronis is: \r\n\r\n\tU+0343 Combining Greek
    Koronis [ \u0313]; U+1FBD Greek Koronis [\u1FBD]\r\n\r\nThe Coronis is a diacritic
    that looks like a smooth breathing, never looks like anything but a smooth breathing
    (except when it looks like a rough breathing), and can be regarded as a special
    variant of the smooth breathing. Unicode decomposes U+0343 canonically to U+0313
    Combining Comma Above, the smooth breathing. This means that as far as it is concerned,
    the coronis and the smooth breathing are identical. As we will see, this is correct:
    while there is a semantic distinction between the two, it is entirely predictable,
    and Greek typography has never been concerned with distinguishing it anyway.\r\n\r\nThe
    coronis is the Byzantine device for notating a phonological process in Ancient
    Greek called crasis, whereby the vowel at the end of a word and the vowel at the
    beginning of the next word were merged together into a third, new vowel or diphthong:\r\n\r\n\u03C4\u1F78
    \u03AD\u03BD\u03B1\u03BD\u03C4\u1F77\u03BF\u03BD = \u03C4\u03BF\u1F50\u03BD\u03B1\u03BD\u03C4\u03AF\u03BF\u03BD\r\n\u03C4\u1F78
    \ \u03B1\u03C5\u03C4\u03CC = \u03C4\u03B1\u03C5\u03C4\u03CC\r\n\u1F41 \u1F10\u03C0\u03AF
    = \u03BF\u1F51\u03C0\u03AF\r\n\u03BA\u03B1\u03AF \u03BF\u1F50 = \u03BA\u03BF\u1F50\r\n
    \r\nAnd that\u2019s all the coronis is. A visual reminder of a breathing mark
    that is underlyingly there, as the beginning of a new word, but on the surface
    has been effaced through crasis. Since it is a visual reminder of a breathing
    mark, it behaves in the way a breathing mark behaves; as you can see in \u03C4\u03BF\u1F54\u03BD\u03BF\u03BC\u03B1,
    \u1F10\u03B3\u1FA6\u03B4\u03B1 and \u03C0\u03C1\u03BF\u1F54\u03C7\u03C9\u03BD,
    it interacts with other Greek diacritics in the way a breathing mark normally
    does. So it is typographically identical to a breathing mark, and always has been.\r\n\r\n\u03A4he
    coronis is a misplaced breathing mark, and its location is predictable: there
    is no need to have a distinct codepoint for it.\r\n\r\nIn papyrology, coronis\u2014literally
    \u2018hook\u2019\u2014refers to a dingbat used to mark the end of a chapter or
    poem. Much bigger than a breathing mark, and unrelated to it.\r\n\r\nThis undermines
    the notion that the coronis is a sign distinct from the breathing mark: its distribution
    is in predictable complementary distribution to that of the breathing mark, and
    its form as smooth or rough is not necessarily independent of the original mark
    on the second word.\r\n\r\nThe reason for Unicode not to grant the coronis an
    underlyingly distinct codepoint was a blanket agnosticism about diacritics. Diacritics
    have very different semantics from language to language, and rather than encode
    each variation in meaning, Unicode has elected to simply encode the shape: if
    two diacritics from whatever languages look identical, they are deemed to be identical.
    This runs roughshod over any semantic distinction between breathing marks and
    coronis; but as I believe I have shown, that distinction survives its elimination
    as a distinct codepoint anyway.\r\n\r\nSo. all in all the actual shape of \u2018coronis\u2019
    is similar to that of the \u2018psili\u2019 and occasionally to the \u2018dasia\u2019
    and placed above a lower case vowel.\r\n\r\nI have uploaded for you two pages
    about coronis and crasis from two Ancient Greek Grammars (Greek Grammar for Colleges
    by Herber Weir Smyth, 1918 and Greek Grammar by William W. Googwin, 1900) to make
    things even clearer.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Crasis_GREEK_GRAMMAR_FOR_COLLEGES72_4723.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Crasis_Coronis72_4533.jpg]"
  created: '2008-10-21 08:29:19'
- author:
    name: Nymus
    picture: 115962
  body: By the way how is the alternate design of the Greek characters for Semele
    progressing?
  created: '2008-10-21 08:32:14'
- author:
    name: sasapetrova
    picture: 115714
  body: "Nymus thank you very much for making things totally clear about coronis and
    psili. The alternate design of the Semele Greek characters is almost finished
    and I will be posting them soon. Also, I will be posting an extensive amount of
    alternates of the Ancient Greek characters.\r\n\r\nI have a question for you,
    \"should the characters lunate sigmas and lunate epsilons have serifs or not?\"\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-24 19:12:06'
- author:
    name: sasapetrova
    picture: 115714
  body: "Hypatia thank you very much for the *.ai file. As soon as I find some time
    I will go on and finish the 'Hypatia Problem' pages.\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-25 12:20:03'
- author:
    name: Nymus
    picture: 115962
  body: "Natasha hello,\r\nIn respect to your question about having a serif or not
    on the Lunate sigmas and epsilon, I am not sure 100% though. Take a look at Takis
    Katsoulidis \u2018Genesis\u2019 and also at the site of the Greek Font Society:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.greekfontsociety.gr/pages/en_typefaces20th.html\r\n\r\nLook
    for the \u2018Majuscule Typefaces\u2019 they do have serifs on the Byzantize style
    sigma.\r\n\r\nI see that you just posted more Ancient Greek Characters with Variant
    letterforms. They look great. I will take a look at them when I have the time
    and let you know what I think."
  created: '2008-10-25 12:32:46'
- author:
    name: Hypatia
    picture: 116009
  body: "Natasha hi, \r\n\r\nI have just noticed that you have been asking Nymus about
    the lunate sigmas and epsilons. I had some free time so I went to google and look
    what I found for you:\r\n\r\nLunate Sigma\r\nhttp://www.tlg.uci.edu/~opoudjis/unicode/letters.html\r\nU+03F2
    Greek Lunate Sigma Symbol [\u03F2]; U+03F9 Greek Capital Lunate Sigma Symbol [\u03F9]\r\nHistory\r\nWhile
    in the 4th century BC literary papyri still used the ancient angular sigma (Thompson
    1912:107), the cursive lunate form had taken over competely by the next century,
    where it stayed as the unique form of the sigma until the invention of lowercase
    in the 8th century\u2014and as the capital sigma, for a millenium longer.\r\nThe
    form is called lunate, of course, because it looks like a crescent. Lest my defence
    of monotonic make me look completely unlettered, let me take this opportunity
    to reject Haralambous' gloss (\xA74.2.4) of lunate into Modern Greek as \u03C3\u03B5\u03BB\u03B7\u03BD\u03B9\u03B1\u03BA\u03CC.
    That means \"lunar\", and you can be sure that the lunate wasn't the form of sigma
    used in the Apollo program. The classical term is \u03BC\u03B7\u03BD\u03BF\u03B5\u03B9\u03B4\u03AE\u03C2;
    but since that will make Modern Greek speakers scratch their heads and ask \"looks
    like a month?\" (or worse, \"looks like Menna, patron saint of Crete?\"), one
    can certainly used \u03C3\u03B5\u03BB\u03B7\u03BD\u03BF\u03B5\u03B9\u03B4\u03AE\u03C2.
    This is the post-classical word with which \u03BC\u03B7\u03BD\u03BF\u03B5\u03B9\u03B4\u03AE\u03C2
    is glossed in Byzantine dictionaries (Hesychius, Lexica Segueriana, Photius, Suda)\u2014for
    the sake of the ancestors of Modern Greek speakers who likewise scratched their
    heads at \u03BC\u03B7\u03BD\u03BF\u03B5\u03B9\u03B4\u03AE\u03C2.\r\nThe word selenoid
    shows up in English, but only as a mispelling of solenoid (Google: 2350 vs. 681,000),
    and as the lunar equivalent of the geoid (Google: 22).\r\nWhile the lunate was
    banished as a capital letter in the 18th century, it remains familiar to Modern
    Greeks through ecclesiastical use: it figures in church icons, and in decorative
    fonts intended to evoke Byzantium (just as epigraphical alpha and sigma\u2014\u2014are
    kept around in decorative fonts to evoke antiquity). It is inevitable, for instance,
    that the headers of the webpages of the Church of Greece website all have lunate
    sigmas; what is interesting is that the homepage itself has the Latin word Ecclesia
    instead. (The point being, of course, that Ecclesia is a Greek word.)\r\n\r\nThere
    is a lot more about lunate sigma at the address I gave above, and you can go and
    read it all if you wish.\r\n\r\nLunate Epsilon\r\n\r\nThe lunate epsilon is an
    uncial character, just as the lunate sigma is; the normal lowercase epsilon became
    usual only in the 12th century. Just like the lunate sigma, the lunate epsilon
    is a glyph associated in Greece with Byzantium and Orthodox Christianity. Outside
    that context, the lunate epsilons are best known as set operators in mathematics;
    they are already included under that guise in Unicode as U+2208 Element of, \u2208,
    and U+220B Contains As Member, \u220B. The set operators are in a glyph tradition
    incommensurate with letter use, and are coded as mathematical symbols (Sm); if
    the lunate epsilon is to be included as a letter, it would need to have a lowercase
    letter category (Ll) and a distinct codepoint\u2014which the lunate epsilon does.
    (The reverse lunate epsilon, on the other hand, has no use in Greek as a character,
    and its category is accordingly still Sm.)\r\nThe Capital Theta Symbol and Lunate
    Epsilons were proposed in March 2000 to the ISO by the US National Standards Body,
    as part of the STIX initiative to standardise usage of mathematical fonts. They
    were added to Unicode 3.1; Ken Whistler has a behind-the-scenes report on the
    deliberations that went on in accepting them. The lunate epsilons were originally
    proposed as U+213B Greek Symbol Straight Epsilon and U+213C Greek Symbol Reversed
    Straight Epsilon. All three symbols are described in the proposal annex as \"N:
    normal or ordinary; e.g., symbol used as a variable.\" This means that some mathematician
    out there has used \u03F5 as a variable\u2014despite the fact that it looks just
    like a set operator\u2014and \u03F4 as a variable, but not as a glyph variant
    of \u0398 (or U+2205 Empty Set, \u2205). \u03F5\u2208\u03F4? Well, I guess there's
    no accounting for taste.\r\nThe reason why the epsilons ended up in the Greek
    block is clear from Whistler's report: ELOT deemed these mathematical characters
    to be Greek characters\u2014which in the case of lunate epsilon, they more or
    less are. But just as with the other mathematical symbols: if you're writing a
    Greek text and want to give it that Olde Bizantine Charme, don't use U+03F5. That's
    not what it's there for. Agitate for a Unicode uncial font instead.\r\n\r\nAs
    It came to my attention that you are currently designing more and more Ancient
    Greek charactersI also found a nice image of some novel looking like characters
    for you, here it is:\r\n\r\nSource: J. Victor Gaultney, Gentium type specimen
    (University of Reading, 2002), p.14.\r\n\r\n  [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Greek_archaic_3579.png]\r\n\r\nArchaic
    Greek letters"
  created: '2008-10-26 11:26:13'
- author:
    name: Nymus
    picture: 115962
  body: "About placing serifs onto Lunate sigma aand epsilon on a serif typeface (as
    these letters are supposedly Byzantine) take a look at this image:\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Serifs_lunate_sigmas_epsilons_3436.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nA
    picture is worth a thousand words.\r\n\r\nRight?"
  created: '2008-10-26 17:02:46'
- author:
    name: Nymus
    picture: 115962
  body: The quote I just used is sometimes attributed to Napoleon Bonaparte, who said
    "Un bon croquis vaut mieux qu'un long discours," or "A good sketch is better than
    a long speech". While this is sometimes translated today as "A picture is worth
    a thousand words," this translation may not predate the phrase's common use in
    English.
  created: '2008-10-26 17:05:29'
- author:
    name: Nymus
    picture: 115962
  body: "By the way I also found those two images depicting lunate epsilons.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lunate_epsilon_constans_124rd_6620.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lunate_epsilon_justin_ii_002rd_6427.jpg]"
  created: '2008-10-26 17:12:29'
- author:
    name: Nymus
    picture: 115962
  body: "I also found this manuscript fragment from CodexSinaiticus with lunate sigmas
    and epsilons.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Byzantine_Codex_Sinaiticus-small_5642.jpg]"
  created: '2008-10-27 08:23:31'
- author:
    name: omega
    picture: 116040
  body: "Your Semele is evolving quite nicely; although it is a bit too feminine for
    my taste I am quite fond of it. I guess that sooner or later you will design also
    the Cyrillic characters, and then I hope that I will also contribute to its fine-tuning.
    Keep up the good work. If I can be of any help in the meantime please don\u2019t
    hesitate to ask."
  created: '2008-10-28 17:39:05'
- author:
    name: Nymus
    picture: 115962
  body: "Hello Natasha, I hope that the lunate sigmas and epsilons that I sent you
    were of some help, of course you have to alter the byzantine serifs to the Semele
    serifs. \r\n\r\nBy the way, I believe that you will have to add serifs also to
    those two ancient Greek characters that look like the letter M.\r\n\r\nAs omega
    suggested, when you are done and finished with the design of the Greek characters
    you may begin designing the Cyrillic characters, that will be an interesting deign
    task for you, especially the Cyrillic italic.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-01 08:13:58'
- author:
    name: Nymus
    picture: 115962
  body: "Hello Natasha, I hope that the lunate sigmas and epsilons that I sent you
    were of some help, of course you have to alter the byzantine serifs to the Semele
    serifs. \r\n\r\nBy the way, I believe that you will have to add serifs also to
    those two ancient Greek characters that look like the letter M.\r\n\r\nAs omega
    suggested, when you are done and finished with the design of the Greek characters
    you may begin designing the Cyrillic characters, that will be an interesting deign
    task for you, especially the Cyrillic italic.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-01 08:14:20'
- author:
    name: Nymus
    picture: 115962
  body: "Hello Natasha, I hope that the lunate sigmas and epsilons that I sent you
    were of some help, of course you have to alter the byzantine serifs to the Semele
    serifs. \r\n\r\nBy the way, I believe that you will have to add serifs also to
    those two ancient Greek characters that look like the letter M.\r\n\r\nAs omega
    suggested, when you are done and finished with the design of the Greek characters
    you may begin designing the Cyrillic characters, that will be an interesting deign
    task for you, especially the Cyrillic italic.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-01 08:14:22'
- author:
    name: Hypatia
    picture: 116009
  body: "Those links that you sent me for the Hypatia play are extremely fascinating
    and to get an full understanding of it I started reading all about Ancient Greek
    Mathematics. \r\n\r\nCould you give me please a rough estimate when will you be
    designing the book text weight for Semele?\r\n\r\nBetween us, it is not really
    necessary to do all in all what Nymus has been suggesting that you should to,
    they are just details that you could fix later on, for now just do what excites
    you most."
  created: '2008-11-01 09:09:43'
- author:
    name: omega
    picture: 116040
  body: "Hypatia is absolutely right, Semele has been developed very well and it should
    be a little boring being stuck with the time consuming facelifting of Ancient
    Greek characters.\r\n\r\nInstead it would be more advantageous to design the book
    text weights for Semele and test them thoroughly, or even better do as Hypatia
    suggested and go on with whatever excites you most."
  created: '2008-11-01 10:26:48'
- author:
    name: sasapetrova
    picture: 115714
  body: "Many thanks to all of you for your help, advice and encouragement.  I just
    finished designing the Byzantine lunate sigmas and epsilons and they look great.
    I have also face lifted the design of quite a number or Greek characters and made
    them more distinctive, and I will be posting them soon. \r\n\r\nAs most of you
    suggested my next task should be to design the bold weight of Semele.Has any of
    you any ideas or links that would make this task more productive and less cumbersome?
    \ I did search here at typophile but most of what I got was not exactly what I
    was looking for.\r\n\r\nWell, maybe as you say, Nymus is overdoing it a bit with
    his suggestions, but he has always been very helpful and considerate; and I appreciate
    this enormously; thank you Nymus.\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-02 09:00:12'
- author:
    name: omega
    picture: 116040
  body: "Hi Natasha. The best link that I have found so far in respect to making a
    bold weight out of Semele light is the following:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/1753\r\n\r\nI
    am looking for some more links even through google, just in case that I may find
    something and I shall let you know asap.\r\n\r\nSome of the things and methods
    mentioned in the above link may seem highly esoteric to you especially that bit
    about using the interpolation tool in FontLab, if it is so please let me know
    and I will do my best to make things clearer for you; or even compose a mini manual
    for you.\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-02 09:37:27'
- author:
    name: sasapetrova
    picture: 115714
  body: "Hi guys, I have just posted numerous alternate characters for the lunate
    sigmas and epsilons after making a thorough study of the info and images that
    you Hypatia and Nymus sent. \r\n\r\nAt the monent I am striving to finish the
    Semele Regular and I have to admit that it is quite a time consuming.\r\n\r\nOmega,
    thanks a lot for the advice and the links that you have given me. It was somewhat
    too esoteric for me and I am following a much simpler way; I might use what you
    suggest at a later time.\r\n\r\nHypatia, I will be sending you soon what you have
    asked for, thanks for being so understanding and patient with me.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-17 11:34:22'
- author:
    name: Nymus
    picture: 115962
  body: 'Hello Natasha, great to see you here again. I liked vey much the lunate sigmas
    and epsilons; as to which of the lot I like best I will take my time deciding
    that. I am eager to see some of your Semele Regular characters. '
  created: '2008-11-18 12:52:21'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Once in a while, these spambots say something almost coherent. This is not
    one of those times.
  created: '2012-09-30 02:18:47'
date: '2008-08-23 18:16:40'
files:
- filename: ThetisLight..pdf
  uri: public://old-images/ThetisLight..pdf
- filename: ThetisLight._0.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/ThetisLight._0.pdf
- filename: Semeli_Light_Roman_Version_9..pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Semeli_Light_Roman_Version_9..pdf
- filename: Semeli_Light_Roman_Version_9._0.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Semeli_Light_Roman_Version_9._0.pdf
- filename: AlternateDesignOfGreekCharacters.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/AlternateDesignOfGreekCharacters.pdf
- filename: AlternateDesignOfGreekCharacters_0.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/AlternateDesignOfGreekCharacters_0.pdf
- filename: Thetis_Semele_LightItalic.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Thetis_Semele_LightItalic.pdf
- filename: Thetis_Semele_LightItalic_0.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Thetis_Semele_LightItalic_0.pdf
- filename: Which_o.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Which_o.pdf
- filename: Semele(Thetis)GreekLightItalicTEXT.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Semele(Thetis)GreekLightItalicTEXT.pdf
- filename: TheConsonantsAtLaw_Loeb_108163_mm1.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/TheConsonantsAtLaw_Loeb_108163_mm1.pdf
- filename: TheConsonantsAtLaw_Loeb_pages_394-397.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/TheConsonantsAtLaw_Loeb_pages_394-397.pdf
- filename: Semeli(Thetis)LightRomanItalic_Version_10N.indd_.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Semeli(Thetis)LightRomanItalic_Version_10N.indd_.pdf
- filename: Hypatia_Problem_313x331_mm.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Hypatia_Problem_313x331_mm.pdf
- filename: Hypatia_Problem_170x242_mm.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Hypatia_Problem_170x242_mm.pdf
- filename: Semeli(Thetis)LightRomanItalic_Version_15Na.indd_.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Semeli(Thetis)LightRomanItalic_Version_15Na.indd_.pdf
- filename: Semeli(Thetis)LightRomanItalic_Version_15Na.indd__0.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Semeli(Thetis)LightRomanItalic_Version_15Na.indd__0.pdf
- filename: SemeleArchaicGreekLetters15N.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/SemeleArchaicGreekLetters15N.pdf
- filename: SemeleArchaicGreekLettersWithVariants.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/SemeleArchaicGreekLettersWithVariants.pdf
- filename: SemeleArchaicGreekLettersWithVariants_0.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/SemeleArchaicGreekLettersWithVariants_0.pdf
- filename: Semele Lunate Sigmas and Epsilons.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Semele Lunate Sigmas and Epsilons.pdf
node_type: forum
title: Semele Roman and Italic, Latin, Greek, Ancient Greek characters and now with
  numerous alternate lunate sigmas and epsilons.

---
