---
author:
  name: blokland
  picture: 110274
body: "Prior to the my talk about the (possible) automation of type design processes
  at the coming ATypI TypeTech Forum (FM Track) in St. Petersburg, I have made the
  latest preliminary edition of the DTL LetterModeller available for (free) download
  from: http://www.fontmaster.nl/english/demo.html\r\nThe downloads for Mac OS X and
  Windows also include the PDF of my presentation. This document gives some hints
  on how to proceed with the further design of the generated glyphs and subsequently
  reveals some of the planned functionality for DTL LetterModeller. \r\n\r\nThe development
  of the application is partly the result of my PhD research at Leiden University,
  in which harmonic systems in scripts and music play a central role. The ideas behind
  the application, which are described in the PDF, are based on my program and experiments
  as Senior Lecturer at the Royal Academy of Art in The Hague over the past 21 years.
  Basically the models are supplementary to writing with the broad nib and the pointed
  pen and the subsequent letter drawing (and vice versa). I actually believe that
  the application can also be of use at a much earlier stage of education, like at
  the elementary school.\r\nSome of my former students showed some of my models on
  the web over time, like:\r\nhttp://www.letterlabor.de/frank.php and this lead to
  discussions like at: http://typographica.org/000756.php.\r\n\r\nBasically (the current
  status of) my theory is that Scripts are represented by Harmonic Systems, (for instance
  Capitals, Textletters and Cursives), which contain one or more Harmonic Models,
  which also can be shared between the Systems. Harmonic Models can contain one or
  more Proportional Models, which reflect in the Rhythmic Model (texture and spacing),
  and one Relational Model (pen width vs. x-height, i.e. weight).\r\n\r\nThe current
  edition of the DTL LetterModeller focusses only on the Textletters. This Harmonic
  System can be explored and modified using a range of parameters. The outcome can
  be exported in BE (Bezier) format, and these glyphs can be further edited in DTL
  FontMaster (Light) and subsequently exported as a font.\r\n\r\nThe application has
  some rough edges and a few loose ends still. For instance the \u2018Pen thickness\u2019
  currently only works for the diagonals in the \u2018a\u2019 and \u2018e\u2019. Furthermore
  there is room for improvement for construction of the \u2018k\u2019 and \u2018v-z\u2019
  range and the \u2018s\u2019 is missing. Flattening of the curves is not possible
  yet, so Gothic variants have to wait for the moment.\r\n\r\nThe programming of the
  DTL LetterModeller is done by Dr. Juergen Willrodt and Axel Stoltenberg at URW++.\r\n\r\nFrank
  E. Blokland\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/LeMo_v107_5199.gif]"
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "It\u2019s certainly an interesting tool. Are user-created models something
    we can expect in a future version? Also, will the text of your talk be posted
    for those of us who can\u2019t make it to ATypI?"
  created: '2008-08-24 19:17:03'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "James Puckett:\r\n\r\n\u2018[...] Are user-created models something we can
    expect in a future version? [...]\u2019\r\n\r\nYou must correct me if I am wrong,
    but this question seems to imply that the underlaying models for the Harmonic
    Systems are arbitrary, which they are not in my opinion. The model for the Textletters
    shows the underlaying and historically developed construction, which finds its
    origin in writing with the broad nib. This opposed to user defined patterns for
    constructing a particular type design, which can to a certain extend be derived
    from, or relate to a Harmonic System, depending on the level of support of the
    conventions.\r\n\r\n\u2018[...] Also, will the text of your talk be posted for
    those of us who can\u2019t make it to ATypI? [...]\u2019\r\n\r\nThe next edition
    of the DTL LetterModeller will be accompanied by the launch of the lettermodel.org/com
    web site, on which supporting texts will be placed.\r\n\r\nFrank E. Blokland\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-25 11:01:23'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I do not mean to imply that the models are arbitrary, but unless I misunderstand
    your theory, it seems logical that there is more than one. \r\n\r\nBut more arbitrary
    models could be fun as well! Then again, I guess that multiple master tools and
    superpolator could be considered as a way to create arbitrary models that can
    be used to extrapolate alphabets. "
  created: '2008-08-25 16:10:10'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "A new, free, version (2.0.0) of <strong>DTL LetterModeller</strong> can be
    downloaded from:\r\n&nbsp;\r\nMac OS: http://www.fonttools.org/downloads/LEMO/LeMo_200_MAC.zip\r\nWindows:
    http://www.fonttools.org/downloads/LEMO/LeMo_200_WIN.zip\r\nLinux: http://www.fonttools.org/downloads/LEMO/LeMo_200_LIN.tgz\r\n&nbsp;\r\nNew
    functionality includes:\r\n&ndash; Optional serifs\r\n&ndash; Predefined sets\r\n&ndash;
    Bodysize entry\r\n&ndash; Curve flattening\r\n&nbsp;\r\nA listing and description
    of the newly added functionality and some other changes can be found in the <em>Read
    Me</em> file. Also a new PDF file (<em>Harmonische Systemen</em>) of my talk on
    my research at Leiden University last May has been added to the download. Currently
    I am working on an extensive manual, which will be presented at the 4th <em>DTL
    FontMaster Conference</em> (\u2018Type[&]Design\u2019) in the Steigenberger Kurhaus,
    The Hague in November of this year.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nSupported font storage formats
    are .be and .ik, which can be edited using DTL FontMaster (Light). As soon as
    the .vfb format becomes public, this will be added too.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/LeMo_1_6272.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/LeMo_2_4751.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/LeMo_4_6024.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/LeMo_5_4146.jpg]\r\n&nbsp;"
  created: '2009-08-12 13:22:30'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Frank, I''ve downloaded and run the Windows installer, but I can''t run the
    program. I''ve checked the folder, and I have a subfolder called ''Documentation''
    and a shortcut, but the shortcut doesn''t point to anything: the program itself
    doesn''t seem to have been installed.'
  created: '2009-08-12 19:35:56'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: I have the same problem. The installer seems to be faulty. This looks a fun
    and useful tool! I really hope the error will be fixed soon.
  created: '2009-08-12 19:49:27'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Ah, I managed to find the .exe file. The shortcut unhelpfully pointed to a
    Start menu directory containing, er, the shortcut. The .exe was where it should
    be. However, when I try to run it the program hangs, displaying a black rectangle
    on my screen which I imagine is where the splashscreen should be. I have to shut
    down the process from the task manager.
  created: '2009-08-12 19:56:12'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: 'I got it working! Do you use Windows Vista? If so, start the .exe as an administrator
    in XP compatibility mode. '
  created: '2009-08-12 20:04:29'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "<em>As soon as the .vfb format becomes public, this will be added too.</em>\r\n\r\nHow
    about <a href=\"http://unifiedfontobject.org/\">UFO</a>, that's already public?
    :)"
  created: '2009-08-12 20:05:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Thanks, Sindre. That works.
  created: '2009-08-12 20:37:37'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: Sorry for the problems with the Windows version; I will look at it early tomorrow.
  created: '2009-08-12 20:57:51'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: FYI, the Mac version works just fine. Serifs and curve flattening are pretty
    cool.
  created: '2009-08-13 00:21:50'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "Jens: \u2018How about UFO, that\u2019s already public? :)\u2019\r\n\r\nYes,
    that could be an option too.\r\n\r\nThe UFO format is actually related to (inspired
    by?) our 35 years old IKARUS based system. As Karsten Luecke noted (http://www.typophile.com/node/55208):
    \u2018[...] in their essence, UFO and UFO applications are actually more similar
    to Ikarus/FontMaster\u2019s than FLS\u2019s philosophy:\r\n\u2014 The UFO font
    format. Rather than one file per font as with FLS, an UFO is a collection of separate
    files for outlines, naming and other metadata, kerning, classes, features \u2014
    not unlike FM fonts. [...]\u2019\r\nand: \u2018[...] \u2014 The UFO applications.
    AFAIK, the philosophy behind UFO-based applications is to have one tool per each
    well defined step in the font production workflow. Which is exactly FM\u2019s
    philosophy of offering separate modules. [...]\u2019\r\n\r\nPerhaps it would be
    interesting to make a direct comparison of UFO files and UFM file plus other FM
    files. Any volunteers?\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-13 15:46:42'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "John: \u2018[...] the shortcut doesn\u2019t point to anything [...]\u2019\r\nSindre:
    \u2018[...] start the .exe as an administrator in XP compatibility mode [...]\u2019\r\n\r\nThe
    installer seems to function correctly, but it looks like permission-settings force
    the Vista user (under XP there is no problem) to run the app as administrator.
    Checking this option in the \u2018properties\u2019 seems to revitalize the shortcut.
    Changing the compatibility mode is, as far as I can see, not necessary.\r\n\r\nThat
    being said, changing settings as such should not be necessary, of course, and
    this is also not the case with the Windows versions of DTL OT- and CompareMaster.
    So, I will discuss this with the programmers. It is vacation season, so it can
    take a couple of days before an update becomes available.\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-14 20:07:31'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "<strong>Some brief notes to a few illustrations from the <em>Harmonische
    Systemen</em> PDF, which is part of the LeMo 2.0.0 download.</strong>\r\n\r\nThe
    characters which are part of the scripts that are in use all over the world are
    not supplied by God(s) nor find their origin in nature, but are actually inventions
    of mankind. The differences between these scripts and their underlaying structures
    make it plausible that the requirements are mostly culturally and historically
    based. One can\u2019t apply the same (design) rules concerning harmony and rhythm
    for the latin script on for instance Hangul, like the traditional music of Korea
    is not comparable with Western music and even seems to lack what we call harmony.
    \r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/LeMo_2_6482.jpg]\r\n&nbsp;\r\nTherefore
    the rules for good typography, that derive from the scripts, i.e., the letterforms
    themselves, and which for instance show up in the \u2018hierarchy of space\u2019,
    cannot be universally applied, but only within the (elements of the) scripts themselves.
    These rules are anchored in what I would like to name <em>Harmonic Systems</em>.
    For Latin these <em>Harmonic Systems</em> are Capitals, Textletters and Cursives.
    These systems are not completely coherent and share collections of different <em>Harmonic
    Models</em>, <em>Proportional Systems</em>, <em>Relational Systems</em> and <em>Rhythmic
    Systems</em>.\r\n\r\nThese models and systems and their combinations are the result
    of the sum of evolution, direct interference of scholars and (the moments in time
    of) technical innovations.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/LeMo_1_5686.jpg]\r\n&nbsp;\r\nThe
    <em>Harmonic Syetems</em> are neither perfect nor sacred, but anchored in conventions.
    Conventions are blueprints for conditioning and conditioning on it\u2019s turn
    preserves the conventions. That may be a scary thought for every type lecturer
    (at least it is for me!), but we simply have to acknowledge this fact and to deal
    with it.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/LeMo_8_5734.jpg]\r\n&nbsp;\r\nTo
    understand the requirements, or to be able to deviate from these, one has to understand
    the structure of the underlaying systems and models. The themes on which all current
    type designers make variations, find their origin in systems and models that were
    fixated in the fifteenth century by the invention of movable type. Type designers
    basically put a relatively thin (but often complex) layer of varnish by making
    variations on the more than five centuries old themes which have become the standard.
    The newly created typefaces are the result then of the designers\u2019 insights,
    technical skills and, of course, the <em>Zeitgeist</em>.\r\n\r\nLetterforms that
    are made for Latin but which are outside the conventions, like for instance Wim
    Crouwel\u2019s <em>New Alphabet</em>, can only be judged as such by applying the
    rules that derive from the underlaying structure, i.e., the conventions that are
    defined by the type design itself.\r\n\r\nOne could argue that Capitals, Textletters
    and Cursives find their origin in the movements that result in a single line (\u2018skeleton\u2019)
    form on which a certain contrast sort (\u2018translation\u2019, \u2018expansion\u2019
    or a combination of these), contrast and subsequent contrast flow (can be influenced
    by rotation) are applied. Another opinion is that the shapes find their origin
    in (the restrictions of) the tool that was used to make the movements. In case
    of the variations on the Textletters and Cursives from the Renaissance (\u2018Humanistic\u2019)
    the pen in question was the broad nib, as was the case with the \u2018base model\u2019
    from the 8th century (\u2018Carolingian\u2019).\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/LeMo_9_3668.jpg]\r\n&nbsp;\r\nThe
    models above show that when translation is applied on a \u2018skeleton\u2019 form
    of a Textletter \u2018n\u2019, the construction changes significantly depending
    on the vector angle. The position of the highest contrast in the arch moves in
    case the pen angle is changed. Due to the conventions one would expect the highest
    contrast in the arch nearby or even attached to the stem. So, the \u2018skelton\u2019
    shape works for the \u2018n\u2019 on the right, but not for the other one.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/LeMo_3_6544.jpg]\r\n&nbsp;\r\nWhen
    writing such a Textletter, normally (but not necessarily) the pen is lifted and
    the \u2018skeleton\u2019 lines that define the stem and arch are not connected.
    When stem and arch have to be connected to construct an uninterrupted shape, the
    'skeleton' line should represent/follow the \u2018vector bridge\u2019, i.e., the
    angle and width of the broad nib effect applied.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/LeMo_4_6583.jpg]\r\n&nbsp;\r\nIn
    the primary Harmonic Model (phm) in the current LeMo edition the \u2018s\u2019
    lacks and it is obvious that the 'k' and 'v-z' range are not faultless when it
    comes to the design and digital representation, especially when serifs are applied.
    One could conclude that therefore the model is to much restricted or is even incorrect
    to represent the Textletter. In fact, it is not strange that the letters in question
    cannot be defined faultlessly with the phm; as everyone who writes with a broad
    nib knows, these letters need some tweaking and bending to fit with the other
    ones. \r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/LeMo_5_4972.jpg]\r\n&nbsp;\r\nThe
    \u2018k\u2019 and the \u2018v-z\u2019 range, but also the \u2018s\u2019 are definitely
    directly derived from the capitals and therefore represent a different Harmonic
    Model. Capitals <strong>do</strong> find their origin in \u2018skeleton\u2019
    lines, which were eventually vectorized by the Romans. The geometrical and relatively
    simple shapes of the Capitals allow the applying of broad nib effects using different
    vector angles. \r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/LeMo_6_6272.jpg]\r\n&nbsp;\r\nThe
    next edition of the LetterModeller will contain a library of \u2018skeleton\u2019
    shapes for, amongst other characters, the Capitals and \u2018k\u2019 plus \u2018v-z\u2019
    range. All parameter settings for the phm can be applied on these characters then.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/LeMo_7_6438.jpg]\r\n&nbsp;\r\nAnother
    addition will be the \u2018disconnection\u2019 of the serifs of the basic model
    afterwards, by using the \u2018general\u2019 parameters and the subsequent applying
    \u2018independent\u2019 general parameters, i.e., for all serifs, or even local
    ones (per [part of the] serif).\r\n&nbsp;"
  created: '2009-08-16 15:05:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Ultimately, the system should work for connected scripts. This looks promising!\r\n\r\nI
    developed a feature code for OpenType substitutions in connected scripts (Latin),
    with glyphs having joins (connecting entry/exit strokes) that are:\r\n\r\nLeft
    joins:\r\n1. none\r\n2. top\r\n3. bottom\r\n\r\nRight joins:\r\n1. none\r\n2.
    top\r\n3. bottom\r\n\r\nThere is a reductive logical constraint here, but the
    system has much in common with the traditional \"joining rules\" of calligraphy,
    e.g. in the chancery script.\r\n\r\nThis technique was explained at a workshop
    at TypeCon in New York which I co-presented with Adam Twardoch and Thomas Phinney.\r\n\r\nI
    haven't got around to fully implementing it in a type design yet (although there
    is some of it reverse engineered into Handsome Pro), but will have a go at using
    it on my own handwriting one day.\r\n\r\nI got the idea that a connected script
    could be based on a skeletal path when making the Handsome family, with a variety
    of styles that are different \"pens\" based on the same skeleton, executed with
    different path-stroking treatments. \r\n\r\nBut of course, this is Knuth's idea
    of the metafont."
  created: '2009-08-16 19:27:46'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: In addition to the curved endings and basic serifs simply angled terminals
    would be a great feature.
  created: '2009-08-22 01:53:23'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "James: \u2018In addition to the curved endings and basic serifs simply angled
    terminals would be a great feature.\u2019\r\n\r\nStroke endings, including serifs,
    represent the contrast and contrast sort. In case of slab serifs or sans serifs
    (if such things exists) the lowest possible contrast is represented and the contrast
    sort can\u2019t be distilled anymore from the (lack of) serifs. \r\n\r\nPage 82
    of the <em> Automating Type Design Processes</em>, which is part of the LeMo version
    2.0 download, shows the effect on the serifs of the lowering of the contrast.
    In one of the next versions of LeMo the \u2018Pen thickness\u2019 function will
    work for all letters and subsequently the used parameters will have an effect
    on the contrast and the related serif angles, and optionally the serifs can be
    removed then.  \r\n"
  created: '2009-08-22 15:19:19'
- author:
    name: Peter Van Lancker
  body: "Some students actually used the LetterModeller as a source of inspiration
    for their type design: http://typophile.com/node/84858?destination=node/84858\r\n"
  created: '2011-09-05 19:50:20'
date: '2008-08-24 15:36:54'
node_type: forum
title: Automating Type Design Processes

---
