---
author:
  name: Tosche
  picture: 113809
body: "Hi guys.\r\nI'm making a font and trying to include capital \xDF, and small
  capital \xDF as well. I understand that Capital \xDF was recently added to Unicode
  as U+1E9E LATIN CAPITAL LETTER SHARP S, but I can't find the small capital one.
  I suppose it's probably not yet included, but I'm not sure. Does anyone know about
  the issue, and is there no problem not assigning a Unicode number? (I'm planning
  to make this character appear by Opentype smcp or salt feature)"
comments:
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "The \"Latin Capital Letter Sharp S\" is just the uppercase letter to \"Latin
    Small Letter Sharp S\". The lowercase letter (\xDF) was always part of the western
    codepages. Just the uppercase letter is new. "
  created: '2008-08-25 07:34:00'
- author:
    name: Katharina
    picture: 112995
  body: "Isn't Tosche asking about small caps/Kapit\xE4lchen?"
  created: '2008-08-25 08:01:52'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "Small caps never have a unicode number assigned but are invoked by formatting
    features (OT preferably), except if small capitals are used in some (e.g. phonetic
    transcription) alphabets as letters with distinct meaning. \"Capital Esszet\"
    is not even used in any official orthography in the world, and of course neither
    is the small capital form of it used in any phonetic alphabet. Therefore you don't
    have a Unicode codepoint for it.\r\n\r\n\r\nSzabolcs"
  created: '2008-08-25 08:59:56'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>Isn\u2019t Tosche asking about small caps/Kapit\xE4lchen?</cite>\r\n\r\nOh,
    I see. \r\nThe Small Caps Eszett doesn't get a Unicode. "
  created: '2008-08-25 09:14:01'
- author:
    name: Lars Oppermann
  body: "I was of the impression that there are no standardized unicode encodings
    for small-caps in the typographical sense at all. Only for small-caps that have
    a particular meaning in some language, such as 'LATIN LETTER SMALL CAPITAL R'
    (U+0280), which is the lower case of 'LATIN LETTER YR' (U+01A6). But such codepoints
    have a different semantic then those typically encoded in the private use area
    of opentype fonts. Consequently, a smallcaps form of the capital SZ would be placed
    in that private use area too as it doesn't have semantics in the linguistic sense.\r\n\r\nI
    wasn't aware of the capital SZ being standardized. I think this is cool and also
    very ironic as the latest reformation of German orthography almost entirely abandoned
    the need for the SZ at all.\r\n\r\nRalf, I just saw the samples you provided for
    the <a href=\"http://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gro%C3%9Fes_%C3%9F\">German Wikipedia
    page on the capital \xDF</a>. Neat stuff! I really like some of the interpretations
    those faces offer, especially P22 Underground's version."
  created: '2008-08-25 10:07:59'
- author:
    name: Tosche
    picture: 113809
  body: "Thanks everyone!\r\nI didn't know that only some small capital letters have
    proper Unicode (and those are for phonetical use or some kind of thing, right?),
    and that there are free private use area. I might forrow your advice, thank  you
    Lars! In fact I'm not familiar with technical issues of digital typography, though
    I know much more about typography itself (especially Japanese).\r\n\r\nIn gratitude,
    I would like to show you the small cap \xDF that I made later."
  created: '2008-08-25 11:26:25'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'Traditionally, Small Cap Postscript fonts have ss in the eszett place to
    allow for graceful substitution. Everyone seems to have accepted this except Zuzana
    Licko and Rudy Vanhderlans (see the specimen book for Mrs Eaves). Presumably esszett
    in OT translates to SC/ss ? '
  created: '2008-08-25 13:08:56'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "<cite>Presumably esszett in OT translates to SC/ss ?</cite>\r\n\r\nAbsolutely
    -- and it's nothing new to OT either.\r\nSince there has been a code point for
    the eszet for ages, all-caps fonts had to put something there. If you check [[http://www.linotype.com/47727/trajanproregular-charactermap.html|Trajan]]
    and [[http://www.paratype.com/fstore/charmap.asp?ProductID=36740566|Lithos]] (random
    first links copied), you will find a double 'SS' in the place reserved for 'german
    double s'.\r\n\r\nAll OTF (Pro) fonts I have at the mo' with a regular eszet display
    them as 'ss' in small caps. (Just checked:) and as 'SS' in All Caps.\r\n\r\nIt
    may give rise to an interesting discussion. Should conversion (if that's the word)
    from eszet to double-s be a font designer's decision, or should it be at the typesetters'
    end?"
  created: '2008-08-25 13:38:02'
- author:
    name: Lars Oppermann
  body: "Do the fonts actually contain an SS-glyph, or is the caps/smallcaps conversion
    in the font set up to replace a single \xDF-glyph with two consecutive S-glyphs? "
  created: '2008-08-25 14:28:29'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "I would guess in anything <em>except</em> OpenType there is an actual single
    \"SS\" glyph. Translation of single-to-multiple glyphs is something very recent.\r\n\r\nI
    was going to mention plain old Courier as a test case, because a monospace font
    may only be called that if <em>all</em> glyphs are the same width. I know from
    experience you should switch ligatures off in monospaced fonts (in the future,
    before the book is printed, not afterwards), because Courier has \"fi\" and \"fl\"
    ligatures, and they are the same width as a single character.\r\nBut someone thought
    ahead, and provided a modern OTF variant, so the \"\xDF\" single width glyph translates
    to double-width double-S on capitalisation.\r\n\r\n(Even checking further:) Oh,
    okay: my Courier <em>doesn't have</em> a single \"SS\" glyph. It must be the software
    that did the translation (and thus prohibiting 'capitalized-\xDF')."
  created: '2008-08-25 15:47:24'
- author:
    name: Tosche
    picture: 113809
  body: "I see really interesting discussion going on.\r\nBy the way, here's what
    I said.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/grosse_6321.jpg]\r\nAs you can
    see, this is a re-digitalized Centaur (Of course Bruce Rogers did not design neither
    Capital \xDF nor sc \xDF)."
  created: '2008-08-25 16:49:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "As I understand it, there should be nothing in the OpenType small cap feature
    (smcp) that converts \xDF to small cap eszett.\r\nHowever, caps-to-small-caps
    (c2sc), which is implemented as part of the \"all small caps\" menu item, should
    access the small cap eszett. It may be a good idea to have some other means of
    changing \xDF to small cap eszett, for instance in a stylistic set or as a stylistic
    alternate.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nIs this just a gimmick, product of the restless minds
    and historical ambitions of Unicode developers (and chore for font designers),
    or will it find, or create, any real-world usage?\r\nI mean, how many times are
    we going to see that 1954 book cover?"
  created: '2008-08-25 17:28:14'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>\u2026 or will it find, or create, any real-world usage?</cite>\r\n\r\nIt
    will definitely be used for proper names (once the most-used fonts are updated).
    There are around 2 million people in Germany who have an Eszett in their family
    name or in the name of their home town. "
  created: '2008-08-25 18:10:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>It will definitely be used...once the most-used fonts are updated.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    very much doubt it. The character is too hard to access. \"Shift-\xDF\" will continue
    to set SS.\r\nImplementation via stylistic set or stylistic alternate is both
    too obscure in layout applications, and inconsistently handled in fonts."
  created: '2008-08-25 19:07:58'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I'm not sure that the most-used fonts are going to be updated. This isn't
    like the euro currency symbol. There was a very impending need with this\u2026
    font makers had to update their fonts, because the currency hit the ground running
    in a dozen countries on a single day!\r\n\r\nBut even when font makers updated
    their fonts to include euros, these font updates were not distributed free-of-charge
    to licensees, at least not by the larger distributors. The best case scenario
    was that some foundries released \"euro fonts,\" which were fonts with just the
    new euro symbols in them, in various fonts or styles\u2026\r\n\r\nI wouldn't expect
    average computer users\u2014or even average graphic designers or CS users\u2014to
    have cap (or small cap) eszetts in their most commonly-used fonts any time soon,
    if ever. Perhaps when OpenType fonts are supplanted by whatever technology will
    come around next, and everyone will needs re-license their old fonts/license new
    fonts/etc. Maybe some of these will have cap and small cap eszetts\u2026"
  created: '2008-08-25 19:14:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I'm putting it in all my new fonts, and in the OpenType upgrades to the older
    ones.\r\nWhy? Because it's an interesting design challenge, and, lacking precedents
    in the \"most commonly-used\" typefaces, there's a fresh feeling when working
    on it."
  created: '2008-08-25 21:22:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am doing the same, Nick. I don't know how many users will require it but,
    like you, I enjoy the challenge.\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nHere is one I am working
    on now:\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/einfluss_6536.png]"
  created: '2008-08-25 22:34:02'
- author:
    name: Christoph
    picture: 112770
  body: "Enjoy the challenge!\r\n(I'm looking forward to your solution for Oneleigh,
    Nick!)\r\n\r\nBut, to be honest, most people in Germany don't even know how to
    make proper use of the lowercase \xDF (which even has its own key), so \u2013
    don't expect to see it anywhere ... ;)"
  created: '2008-08-26 07:51:52'
- author:
    name: Lars Oppermann
  body: "Nick, the way the German keyboard layout is arranged, shift-\xDF gives you
    a question mark - so much for people entering it manually. For a capitalized charcter
    stlye it's good to have though, albeit many people will expect 'SS' instead of
    capital-\xDF, so making it optional (stylistic set? not sure about the technical
    implementation) seems reasonable.\r\n\r\nWhile you are at design challenges posed
    by the German language, how about adding fffl ligatures for beauties such as \"Sauerstoffflasche\"
    (oxygen bottle). The only font I know of that has this is Requiem (because Bringhurst
    mentioned it). Coincidentally, H&FJ get it wrong in <a href=\"http://www.typography.com/fonts/font_features.php?featureID=44&productLineID=100020\">their
    sample</a> and misspell it \"Sauerstoffflachen\" ;). With the 1996 rules, an fff-ligature
    for \"Schifffahrt\" (boat trip) may also be in order. However, and now I'm getting
    totally off-topic, someone had the ingenious idea of making orthographic rules
    about ligature. These rules (in general) state that a ligature should not be used
    when compunds are formed (which is often the case in the German language). Thus,
    the use of an fffl ligature in \"Sauerstoffflasche\" would be considered an error
    by that rule ;)\r\n\r\nIn <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/46540\">another
    thread</a>, where Ralf and others already provided a lot of interesting background
    on this topic, it was suggested that a new type of ligature was called for. Kind
    of a non-connecting ligature. In a font where the f reaches far to the right (e.g.
    Bembo) setting a word like \"auflegen\", for which the rule states not to use
    an fl-ligature, results in such letterspaceing that it reads like \"auf_legen\".
    That is if you don't want the f and l glyph to clash.\r\n\r\nThus, the next German
    type design challenge would alternative ligatures for use at German compound boundaries
    which are designed so that the glyphs in the ligature don't touch. I wonder if
    German users would be interested in such fonts ;)\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-26 13:20:36'
- author:
    name: Lars Oppermann
  body: "Oh, and while we're at it, include an f that looks good in front of diacritics.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bembo_5656.png]\r\n(Bembo)\r\n\r\nI'm
    not saying that the f should \"swallow\" the left dot on the u-umlaut, but I also
    think they are too close so an alternate version of the f with a shorter arc might
    be a solution... (maybe this is just my bad taste)"
  created: '2008-08-26 13:41:58'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "It's really no argument to say it can't catch on, because there is no keyboard
    shortcut. That's like someone would have said a 100 years ago, we can't invent
    planes, because there are no airport terminals ...\r\nWhen people will start using
    this character, they will also create the demand for font updates and better input
    methods. It wont go as fast as with the Euro character, but it doesn't have to
    be. Who knows if we use the same kind of keyboards and operation systems in 15
    years from now? \r\n\r\nBTW: You can already install alternative keyboard drivers
    which enable the Capital Sharp S with the shortcut Option + Shift + \xDF (Mac)
    or AltGr + Shift + \xDF (Windows).\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-26 13:58:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>That\u2019s like someone would have said a 100 years ago, we can\u2019t
    invent planes, because there are no airport terminals</em>\r\n\r\nNo, it's like
    saying people won't fly because they have no idea how to get to the airport."
  created: '2008-08-26 14:58:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Lars:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/40439\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-26 14:59:34'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "Two real-world examples:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/n47874590367_3308443_4095_5010.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Bild-2_3925.jpg]"
  created: '2008-08-26 15:17:00'
- author:
    name: Lars Oppermann
  body: Ralf, nice... what is the Max Goldt cover set with? Some sort of sort of Caslon?
  created: '2008-08-26 15:56:58'
- author:
    name: jt_the_ninja
    picture: 115340
  body: "Heh...you know, just as an alternative to writing out a double ss, it seems
    like a useful shortcut. Why doesn't English do that?\r\n\r\nAs for the f before
    \xFC, i agree that a discretionary ligature w/ a shorter arc would be a good idea.\r\n\r\n\r\nPeace,\r\nJT"
  created: '2008-08-26 16:58:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Ralf, that's more like it!
  created: '2008-08-26 17:27:57'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Lars, there is a partial cure to f\xFC used by Matthew Carter for example,
    viz., a small positive kern. \r\n\r\nChris, I am wild about your capital esszet.
    It is by far the most organically convincing solution I have yet seen. Brilliant
    thinking, showing a real sensitivity to the reader's eye. "
  created: '2008-08-26 23:03:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Bill!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-08-26 23:44:58'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "I still maintain that a more \"rectangular\" form of capital \xDF would be
    better, along the lines of my proposal at\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/33647\r\n\r\nThe
    curved top left corner is illogical and only makes sense if the top left color
    of F is curved as well, a la Handel Gothic. Through the analogy, if the lowercase
    longs looks like a lowercase f without the bar, then the (nonexistent) uppercase
    longs should look like the uppercase F without the bar, i.e. like the Greek uppercase
    Gamma. And this should be what the left side of the uppercase \xDF looks like.\r\n\r\nRemember
    that there should be clear, obvious visual distinction between a lowercase letter
    and an uppercase letter. The curved-top uppercase \xDF proposals all look like
    hybrids between uppercase and lowercase, they're not sufficiently different from
    the normal lowercase \xDF. \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-28 02:36:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Remember that there should be clear, obvious visual distinction between
    a lowercase letter and an uppercase letter.</em>\r\n\r\nOf course, but in what
    way? Many letters in the Latin alphabet have extremely similar shapes across case,
    differentiated by other qualities, in particular stroke weight and size. Now admittedly,
    the cap and lower case eszett are nominally the same size, which is potentially
    problematic, but if the weight and proportions are suitably \"upper case\", then
    there won't be confusion. Context must count for something, and this letter never
    starts a word, and is usually surrounded by other capitals. In Ralf's samples,
    it is simply illogical to assume that when all other letters are upper case, the
    eszett is lower case, and in those fonts, it is sufficiently big and with matching
    stroke weights that it doesn't give that impression. However, I do think that
    in the Max Goldt cover, the character is too fussy for a capital, with that upward
    \"flick\" of a stroke towards the top right. "
  created: '2008-08-28 03:01:44'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "Adam, I second you. This is absolutely my opinion as well as I have already
    put it forward earlier.\r\n\r\nNick, with this argument \"In Ralf\u2019s samples,
    it is simply illogical to assume that when all other letters are upper case, the
    eszett is lower case, and in those fonts, it is sufficiently big and with matching
    stroke weights that it doesn\u2019t give that impression.\"\r\nyou could just
    continue using lowercase \xDF in all-caps setting, as NU\xDFBAUMER's \xDF would
    be clearly recognized as uppercase, as \"it is simply illogical to assume that
    when all other letters are upper case, the eszett is lower case\"... ;-)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nSzabolcs"
  created: '2008-08-28 13:33:39'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Well, I have looked at the interminable thread referenced, and all the examples,
    and I still find Chris's example is the only persuasive one. I don't know why,
    and I don't know whether the approach would work in a serif font, and I'm not
    entirely happy with Chris's normal, lowercase eszett. Of all the serif models
    proposed here and in the previous thread, I find them annoying, illogical and
    too noticeable. \r\n\r\nThe superb thing about Chris's uppercase design is that
    it is practically unnoticeable - - the traditional goal of all typography. You're
    seeing a character you've never seen before, yet you don't even have to pause
    to recognize it. You know at once what it is. Transparency is operating on several
    synergistic levels here. This is a remarkable achievement. This is what type is
    all about. "
  created: '2008-08-28 21:38:50'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'P.S. Adam, without having any positive ideas about how to solve this problem
    for serif fonts, what I dislike about the rectangular form you proposed for Garamond
    PP is that the form has a pronouncedly Kyrillic flavour which I fear will be found
    uncongenial. '
  created: '2008-08-28 22:13:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Szabolcs, you're right, my logic was flawed.\r\n\r\nIn fact, readers don't
    make assumptions about whether a character has an upper or lower case shape--which
    is why unicase isn't too hard to read. \r\n\r\nSo the only thing that matters
    is the typographical aesthetic--does the glyph harmonize? \r\n\r\nWith that criteria,
    I'm afraid I don't like the \"rectangular\" cap Eszett Adam proposes. It's too
    busy, a crowded shape."
  created: '2008-08-29 04:10:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My reasoning  for the form I used was an attempt to have a reader simply
    accept the capital as an Eszett with as little debate as possible. This for me
    is a daunting task because I am not a native German speaker who is used to seeing
    German text. My hope is that if enough type designers make an attempt and put
    something out there to be seen, that the German speakers will discuss all the
    options and we will eventually have a range of forms that are acceptable. Right
    now, there is very little out there for a proper dialogue to ensue. As for myself,
    I am just hoping for more input from the German speaking community.\r\nI can completely
    understand Adam's logic in treating the cap F without a crossbar in the same way
    as we treated the long s of old. The trouble is as I attempted to use it, was
    that it kept separating itself too much from the rest of the text. It looked either
    too angled, too Greek (or Cyrillic as Bill says), to constructed or just too awkward.
    I felt as though a reader would have to go through the logical steps of figuring
    out the longS as an F and then saying, \"Oh, that is what he means\" rather than
    just reading Eszett without further ado. The long s in lowercase is so rarely
    seen that many people may not even attend to it as anything familiar to begin
    with. In the cap form, it never existed so there is no visual memory, only right-brained
    extrapolation and reconstructed logic, A similar thing to extreme might be to
    use bull's head line drawing inverted as an A for a new glyph called the double
    bowled cap A. We may know the origin of Aleph but the connection no-longer reads
    without analysis. I was just trying a way to just have it read without needing
    interpretation.\r\nIn the eyes of German speakers, I may have failed--this I do
    not deny. I admit I have been greatly influenced by reading Ralf's posts here
    and on Flickr regarding this over recent years since he seems to be one of the
    few to invite the dialogue and prompt his fellow Germans to respond. I am an interested
    observer who knows little of the German language but seek to participate in the
    dialogue not only because I attempt to design typefaces but that the idea of a
    new letterform intrigues me greatly. I admit I do feel like an interloper who
    might have been tempted to draw a U to go with the Trajan inscription :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-08-29 16:20:00'
- author:
    name: Tosche
    picture: 113809
  body: "I disagree with Adam's logic.\r\nMost importantly, \xDF is definitely a ligature
    of long-s and s, not f and s, and that's the same story with uppercase. I think
    there's no connection between <em>\xDF looks like fs</em> and <em>capital \xDF
    should be like FS</em>. It's not FS ligature, and it should look like SS ligature."
  created: '2008-08-30 10:22:50'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> Most importantly, \xDF is definitely a ligature of long-s \r\n> and s,
    not f and s, and that\u2019s the same story with uppercase.\r\n\r\nI was never
    arguing that \xDF is a ligature of f and s. I said that the capital \xDF should
    be a ligature of a capital longs and a capital s. Since the capital longs never
    existed, it needs to be imagined though reverse thinking. Since the lowercase
    longs is the lowercase f without the crossbar, it is only logical to assume that
    the capital longs could look like a capital f without a crossbar, i.e. like the
    capital Greek gamma. In other words, the relationship of \u0393 and \u017F and
    of F and f is the same. Since \xDF is a ligature of \u017Fs, it is a logical consequence
    that the capital \xDF could be a ligature of \u0393S. This is _pure logic_. \r\n\r\nThen,
    one needs to examine the practicality of the solution. And there, one arrives
    at the conclusion that since \xDF can be drawn as a ligature of \u017Fs or as
    a ligature of \u017F\u01B7, the clearest distinction between the uppercase and
    the lowercase \xDF can be achieved if you draw the uppercase \xDF as a ligature
    of \u0393\u01B7 and the lowercase \xDF as the traditional ligature of \u017Fs.
    \r\n\r\nI maintain that the \u0393\u01B7 shape is very \"masculine\" and very
    appropriate for a letter that is inherently uppercase. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2008-08-30 15:22:40'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">This is _pure logic_.\r\n\r\nSo was the roman du roi. So was Romulus italic.
    Where are they now? (Matthew Carter once wrote something to the effect that the
    only typeface with a theory behind it that was persuasive either as theory or
    type was Meridien.) \r\n\r\nChris, as far as I'm concerned, your place in type
    history is secured by being the first to design a great cap fz. Do you think you
    could try and top that with a seriffed solution? \r\n\r\n>My reasoning for the
    form I used was an attempt to have a reader simply accept the capital as an Eszett
    with as little debate as possible. This for me is a daunting task because I am
    not a native German speaker who is used to seeing German text.<\r\n\r\nThis is
    classic American thinking of the best kind. Being respectful of the historical
    context but not being burdened with it, so able to get the job at hand done."
  created: '2008-08-30 23:13:17'
- author:
    name: Tosche
    picture: 113809
  body: ">So was the roman du roi. So was Romulus italic.\r\n\r\nYeah, and so was
    D\xFCrer's Roman Capital."
  created: '2008-08-31 01:48:35'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "This is why I'm not saying, use pure logic. I say, use logic as your startpoint,
    apply natural laws to it (like, ease of drawing the symbol by hand) plus your
    craft and talent. \r\n\r\nChris's capital \xDF looks like it's coming from Handel
    Gothic :) That type of curve is unheard of in the skeleton of the Latin uppercase
    letter, so it looks alien. It looks like three-quarters uppercase, like an eunuch
    of sorts (assuming that the uppercase is masculine, coming from static stone carving,
    while the lowercase is feminine, coming from freehand writing). \r\n\r\nTake a
    shot and casual handwriting and come up with a cap-\xDF form that is easy and
    natural to write by hand. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2008-08-31 13:49:24'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "\"That type of curve is unheard of in the skeleton of the Latin uppercase
    letter, so it looks alien.\"\r\nThat's exactly how I feel about the curved form.
    (Though I don't like quite some of Adam's examples where the lower bowl of the
    3-shaped Z-component forms a 1/2 to 3/4 circle... It's as someone noted too crowded.
    Go for descenders and more verticality within the 3-shape, like in J!\r\n;-)\r\n\r\nSzabolcs"
  created: '2008-08-31 14:00:59'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "I like the solutions Chris shows here. Like Bill I felt a Cyrillic reference
    when I first saw Adams thoughts worked out.\r\n\r\nFor what it's worth ... here
    are my Versal Eszets:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cap_ss_3912.png]"
  created: '2008-08-31 15:23:14'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: I like these very much though I don't like them quite as much as Chris's.
    Trying to analyze my feelings I'd say at a rough guess that I prefer the more
    generous way he handles the top left curve and the more free way he handles the
    bottom right curve. But another factor is that I really like good ultra light
    sans designs. Ultra light seems to me the sweet spot for appreciating the intrinsic
    beauties of many sans designs. Not that we're talking about beauty here, but I'm
    trying to factor in my prejudices. What you have shown, Jos, is that the principle
    has merit, and can be successfully applied to a variety of styles. Now we have
    to see if this principle stands up when used with a conventional serif face such
    as Garamond or Baskerville. Nobody should feel ashamed for not achieving an ideal
    cap esszet, considering how very many truly dreadful lower case esszets have been
    designed in the history of type! Either case, it's a difficult character!
  created: '2008-09-01 00:32:49'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "Chris' and Jos' Eszetts still have the problem, that there too much \"B\"
    in it, especially if your reading it in smaller sizes. The small gap and the short
    diagonal stroke just isn't enough. This is true, even if the B looks very differently
    in those typefaces. We don't read by comparing the letter forms. The neurons just
    fire, when they see a shape that matches the pattern. And the B neurons will fire
    when they see such capital Eszetts. Sure, the reader will usually correct that
    within the context of the surrounding letters, but it might be better to have
    a unique letter in the first place. \r\nI usually solve this by making the character
    significantly wider than B, usually the width of a G. Such a design can never
    be mistaken for a B. \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lucida_4402.png]\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-01 07:25:48'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Jos, \r\n\r\nyour #3 looks good \u2014 in this particular typeface, with
    a strong calligraphic flair, it makes sense to give the cap-\xDF \u0430 descender
    and overall a more flowy, rounded shape. However, the letter is too dark compared
    to the regular uppercase letters. \r\n\r\nBut the other three cap-\xDFs just look
    like enlarged lowercase \xDFs. They don't feel like uppercase letters at all \u2014
    they're too narrow and too complex in their structure. The uppercase of the Latin
    alphabet uses a very simple set of basic composition elements: vertical stroke,
    horizontal stroke, diagonal stroke and a half-circle. Even the letter S, which
    is a fairly complex shape, is still pretty simple. The letter J is the only one
    that does not use the standard building blocks \u2014 since it's a \"late arrival\"
    to the alphabet. The other \"late arrivals\" like K and W have integrated nicely
    because they speak the formal language of the Latin uppercase. \r\n\r\nThe shape
    you guys are proposing lacks one essential aspect of the other Latin uppercase
    letters: robustness. The underlying skeleton of the Latin capitals is robust and
    flexible at the same time. They're capable of taking any stylistic treatment you
    imagine, and they clearly stand apart from each other. The new member of the gang
    must bring the same qualities. It should look like it always belonged there. \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-01 15:30:01'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "Thanks Bill, Ralf and Adam for the kind feedback and thoughts about the Versal
    \xDF. This really inspires me to have another look at it. To be continued...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-02 10:24:31'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Ralf, I like your variation but I think you worry too much about B-ness.
    Character differentiation at small sizes is an issue in itself, one that affects
    all characters. b-ness, or Beta-ness, is also a problem that afflicts many of
    the badly designed lowercase esszet glyphs of the past (less for a German reader,
    who will always know that the near-Beta is supposed to be an esszet, than for
    everyone else). And none of that means that a near-Beta generic lowercase esszet
    is a good thing. All of that said, I still think your example is too wide, because
    it is out of proportion with the other characters. The right hand side is longing
    to be closer to the left hand side. \r\n\r\nAdam, you speak of skeleta, flexibility,
    and robustness ... terms that are frustratingly inexact and reflect the implicit
    difficulty of a scientific approach. Still, the Chris Lozos esszet is still the
    only one that looks 'like it always belonged there.' I see no reason why this
    should not happen at small sizes. Reduced to slushy 8 point newsprint, you might
    have problems, but you will have those for many other characters in the alphabet
    under such conditions and must redesign accordingly. The task here is more to
    come up with a general solution than to provide insurance for every possible optical
    condition. Since the displaying is at display size, it naturally makes sense for
    the design to be a display size. \r\n\r\nRalf, the more I look at your version,
    the more I like it. But it needs to be a trifle narrower, and though I love the
    upsweep of the curve in the final stroke, I think it is a mistake, because it
    makes the lower curve look like the illustration of a hook. One of the reasons
    Chris's example works is that all the curve directions appear to be in the right
    place to signal the brain to get the message ''it's OK\", its recognizable, it's
    a friend, I know it.\r\n\r\n'Hookness' should probably be avoided to the extent
    possible. You can see Jos's examples being on the edge of hookness, and just barely
    avoiding it. \r\n\r\nNeedless to say, like Chris, I'm on edge about giving my
    opinion about a German character to a German, but ' . . . wenn man hoeflich ist'
    !"
  created: '2008-09-02 15:04:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The dilemma we face as type designers and type aficionados is that we are
    very close to form issues and very far from being naive readers. We tend to get
    inthralled with the nuance and detail that separates one typestyle from another
    and overlook the forest. Much of our discussion in this thread has been about
    the details of a typeface rather than the distinctions of a single new glyph in
    relation to the rest of the long established set. A reader is not looking for
    what will become a decision point of form during reading. Readers are not looking
    for any form issues. They just want the flow of reading to continue without intervention.
    Imagine what happened when the first U was made part of the Roman alphabet? It
    was a new odd form that had to find its place. There is no getting around this
    point in time. It may take a generation or 2 to have the new Eszett take an accepted
    place for readers. It is not a question of proportions of space or degree of curve.
    These are type design issues we all deal with. Something much more basic is at
    issue here, pointed upper-left corner or rounded upper-left corner, vertical stem
    drops below baseline or not, S curve or Z? While I might find Ralf's form too
    wide and disturbing to color, it is basically the same as the one I have drawn
    or Jos has shown. There are way too many variations in type style that need to
    be allowed for to constrain anyone's design by style. I also find the O he has
    shown in that same sample as being too narrow for the D or other letters but I
    still clearly see it as an O and not a zero. That would be a discussion he and
    I might have about designing a particular typeface but not about defining a new
    glyph. With ANY new glyph, the reader will struggle to decide f it is one of the
    older glyphs or not. This is a learning process we must go through and formal
    quality is not the issue for that, only structure.\r\n\r\nI agree with Bill's
    comments about abstract terms. I never knew about or even accept the gender description
    of Latin caps and lower case as being masculine or feminine. Likewise' what exactly
    is \"Robustness\" and how does it come into play? These terms don't help me understand
    the problem Adam is seeing. I hope Adam can find another way to describe the problem
    he sees.\r\n\r\nThanks for the kind words, Bill! \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-09-02 17:52:45'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Having looked at the samples on these threads, I agree with Adam that the
    upper left corner should follow the style of other upper left corners present
    in the uppercase B D E F H I K L M N P R. I have been trying to upload my take
    on this, but I keep getting error messages no matter if I try to upload a jpg
    or png image.\r\n\r\nJamesM"
  created: '2008-09-02 19:03:25'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>The dilemma we face as type designers and type aficionados is that
    we are very close to form issues and very far from being naive readers. </cite>\r\n\r\nYes,
    and that's why we can continue this discussion forever\_\u2013 we will never agree
    on just ONE shape. Just make your Capital Sharp S and let the German readers decide
    what they like. \r\nBTW: Were keeping a list of releases with this character on
    this page: http://www.typografie.info/typowiki/index.php?title=Versal-Eszett\r\nIf
    you have released a typeface with capital sharp s, please send me an image with
    a sample word. \r\n(But please choose one with correct orthography. The one used
    in this thread is not correct. \xBBEinfluss\xAB is always spelled with double-s
    today. Here is a <a href=\"http://www.plz-postleitzahl.de/site.plz/search.html?c=ort&q=*%C3%9F*&x=0&y=0\">list</a>
    with over 400 German city names that include an Eszett.)"
  created: '2008-09-02 19:33:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Here is a list with over 400 German city names that include an Eszett\"\r\n\r\nThanks
    Ralf! I can certainly use that list :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-09-02 19:35:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/SSSSSS_5133.png]\r\nHere are a few.\r\nLoser
    Girl can't make up her mind how to write this thing."
  created: '2008-09-02 21:25:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Using a name from Ralf's approved list :-)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sharpS_6078.png]\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-02 23:16:04'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "Chris, in your heaviest weight the (upper right of) Versal \xDF seems to
    point up more then the lightest weight.\r\n\r\n+++\r\n\r\nHere's a new attempt.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cap_ss_2_5792.png]"
  created: '2008-09-03 08:57:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Jos! I think you are right. I will work on that.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-09-03 14:10:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I don't know guys, the Eszett character has the general shape of a human
    ear (see Jimmy Typeface), so isn't making it pointed a little too much lycanthropy?
    Maybe it's just me, but that's the fantasy-creature vibe I can't shake. \r\n\r\nOn
    a purely typographic level, the acute top right shape doesn't look like part of
    the character, but a go-faster glyph styling, like in <a href=\"http://www.linotype.com/88984/dynamo-family.html?gclid=CIWbh6WNwJUCFSRaiAodPVYFPw\">Dynamo</a>.
    But hey, at least Dynamo is a German design!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-03 18:06:47'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "What you're trying to say is that you find the uc shape a bit alienated?
    \r\nThat's spock on (I hope Jimmy won't mind).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/spock_5872.png]"
  created: '2008-09-04 08:28:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: LOL.
  created: '2008-09-04 08:33:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Beam me up, Jos!!! :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-09-04 14:51:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think Mike Tyson can figure out a way to make the disfigured ear thing
    work as well as Spock :-)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tyson-bite-cp-350_3913.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-04 15:08:14'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "Oh ... now ... that's ... lycanthropic behavior. :-)\r\n\r\nA lesser known
    fact is that 12 years ago Mike called me to eagerly ask if I could design Eszetts
    for his alphabet soup. Sadly for Evander I wasn't able to finish this assignment
    on time. "
  created: '2008-09-04 15:41:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "More biting humor from Jos :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-09-04 17:12:23'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "Another brand new real-world example:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/giessenerzeitung_4499.png]\r\n\r\nA
    local newspaper that is distributed in over 100.000 households around the city
    of Gie\xDFen now uses a capital Eszett for their logo. \r\nIt's not very well
    done and they also really need to get one for their headlines in Walbaum, but
    it's still a sign that this character is already catching on. "
  created: '2008-09-04 19:44:24'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: Very nice, Jos, I think this vindicates Chris's bottom right curve idea --
    there's something about it that is crucially non-distracting. Nick, I think your
    solutions are absolutely beautiful but too distracting because of the too-faithful
    adherence to the bottom S-curve termination idea. However, that may be the best
    that can be done with the form. Had you tried Chris's idea and found it wouldn't
    work for seriffed type? Jos and Chris, I wonder if for both of your designs, the
    upper left hand curve can't start a little sooner? But maybe that wouldn't work?
    It wouldn't make logical sense of course. Might it make visual, and psycho-visual
    sense? We're dealing with extraordinary intangibles here but it's wonderful to
    see how well people are rising to the challenge.
  created: '2008-09-05 17:46:02'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "I fear <em>Gie\xDFener Zeitung</em> is exemplary of more atrocities brave
    German readers will have to face in future ..."
  created: '2008-09-05 18:08:49'
- author:
    name: Christian Harder
    picture: 112921
  body: "I don't dislike the idea of a capital Eszett per se (although I wonder how
    many circumstances I would end up using it in), but I think it's worth pointing
    out that the courageous folk at the Gie\xDFener Zeitung may be treating it more
    as a curio or trademark than as a serious piece of typography. They identify their
    newspaper as \"die mit dem gro\xDFen \xDF\" \u2014 \"the one with the capital
    \xDF.\" I wonder if they use it in any all-caps situation outside the name of
    the paper?\r\n\r\nChristian A. Harder"
  created: '2008-09-05 20:09:38'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Well, \u201Cdie mit dem gro\xDFen \xDF\u201D exemplifies a theory that many
    font marketers, but especially German ones, have expressed to me - - that for
    the 'common man' who buys a special type for his company, the way to sell the
    type to him is to say 'now you can say \"I am the one with the special g\"' or
    the italic p, or whatever. And what's wrong with that? I can't imagine cap esszet
    ever becoming a crucially important typographic feature, but I would expect it
    gradually to become acceptable, and even expected, perhaps over a period of some
    decades. It's really rather exciting. How often can one think of adding a new
    character to the alphabet that is actually accepted? Yet here it seems to be unfolding
    before our eyes. \r\n\r\nAt least everyone here is trying to think constructively
    and <em>typographically</em> about the future. What a contrast to the static situation
    of the untypographical eth where, as far as we know, a set of rules completely
    at odds with rational design and with typography itself, must be observed without
    the least possibility of reform. "
  created: '2008-09-05 21:07:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...adherence to the bottom S-curve termination idea.</em>\r\n\r\nFirstly,
    in serifed type, some kind of stroke terminal is necessary, and one that fits
    the typeface.\r\nAs you surmise Bill, the terminal curls up to clear the serif:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ssss2_3828.png]\r\n\r\nSecondly,
    I like the way the terminal angle in the sans can align with other elements.\r\n\r\nThe
    main thing I'm trying to do is balance the proportions of the interior white space,
    so that the bottom counter is slightly larger than the top one. I varied the treatment
    in Figgins Sans, depending on the weight:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Sssss_4394.png]\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-05 22:23:45'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'Nick I can''t think of anything better, but, thanks to your beautiful drawing,
    you''re helping me to see why I don''t like this form. The terminal curl brings
    your eye back to the left stem - - just where it shouldn''t be in left-to-right
    reading. I like that the Giessener Zeitung illustrates the Lozos method. I still
    think the upper left hand curve is too sharp, but I haven''t had the opportunity
    to experiment myself yet. I wonder who designed the GZ glyph? '
  created: '2008-09-06 23:54:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Jos and Chris, I wonder if for both of your designs, the upper left hand
    curve can\u2019t start a little sooner? But maybe that wouldn\u2019t work?\"\r\nBill,
    my dilemma with that is fitting with other caps. As a concept, it is fine and
    may work with a very wide light face with open spacing. The compared busy look
    of the righthand side seems a bit awkward to space with the faces I have been
    working on. I suspect a higher contrast roman may be a better place to try it.
    I think the basic form agreed upon at some point in the future by German speakers
    will hopefully allow for a plethora of typographic styles already in use. I refer
    to the beginning point and severity of the curve being left open to suit the design
    as opposed to mandatory for all typefaces.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-09-08 00:09:07'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">fitting with other caps\r\n\r\nChris, when you say fitting here, are you
    worried about space, or consistency of form or both?  \r\n\r\n>as opposed to mandatory\r\n\r\nYou're
    absolutely right Chris. The less mandatory the better. \r\n\r\nType is an inherently
    rigid mode of expression. We don't need to make it more so. I dislike the little
    rules that parvenus and the insecure are so addicted to. The mentality that causes
    Type Guru A to tell Zapf that he can't design a sterling sign with two bars. In
    the first place, Guru A is historically wrong. In the second place, nobody cares
    if he's right outside of management who paid him and now has proof he's worth
    it, third, it's rude, fourth it's too silly to think about, fifth it's typographically
    irrelevant and sixth, even if it were, Zapf's view is more important than Type
    Guru A's. (tragic example drawn from real life)\r\n\r\nIt's natural in a craft
    to want to have rules, to want to make rules. Learning the rules is one of the
    ways you learn the craft. But rulemaking, like power, corrupts! I want never to
    fall into this trap. Thanks for the reminder!"
  created: '2008-09-08 08:19:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Not rules, but standards.\r\n\r\nI experimented with different approaches...\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/33647\r\n\r\n...but
    came to the conclusion that the one in the Andreas St\xF6tzner proposal was best:\r\nhttp://std.dkuug.dk/jtc1/sc2/wg2/docs/N3227.pdf\r\nAfter
    all, it's his baby.\r\n\r\nBut in the future, for other faces, I might change
    my tune. Having a standard is a good place to start, it will lessen the perplexity
    of those readers exposed to this \"new\" thing, and it will mean that designers
    who go their own way better have a good reason. \r\n\r\nI like Toshi's approach
    for an old-style (antiqua), shown above in this thread.\r\nHaving alternate forms
    suggests a richness, diversity, and history, which is something you get with other,
    well-established characters. \r\n"
  created: '2008-09-08 16:36:35'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "I did several rough sketches for a capital Eszett for my font and sent a
    picture of them in between other capitals to a friend of mine in Germany who then
    showed it around to a lot of his friends.  They aren't design freaks, but most
    all were graduate students so I figure they were using their brain in picking.\r\n\r\nAnyways,
    after roughly tabulating their votes between \"yes\" \"no\" and \"maybe but not
    really\" or \"maybe\" etc. I came up with this conclusion (sorry for scrolling):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/capital_eszett3c_3909.png]\r\n\r\nI
    attempted to do every variation I could think of so I could see what elements
    worked and what didn't (the first one is of course the lowercase.  It seems like
    the gamma top corner would be slightly more recognizable though not overwhelmingly
    so.  Descenders were generally acceptable (the full curved descender matches the
    J in this font).  Oddly enough (to me) the one after the C was seen more favorably
    than the following one (after Y) which i thought would have been more recognizable
    and preferred.    \r\n\r\nVariety of forms will be nice, I think the lc eszett
    has the most varying forms I can think of for a latin letter so it makes sense
    the uppercase will be equally as complex.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea
    tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz
    Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-09-08 19:32:57'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Also here's my Sutterlin and fraktur attempts.  (I don't have a sutterlin
    font yet I've worked on so it's just outline sketches in OmniGraffle)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/capital_eszett_sutterlin_6397.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/capital_eszett_fraktur_5894.png]\r\n\r\nOf
    courrse neither were ever used in all caps so their design is totally moot but
    it's interesting to think how they might have been formed.  There are some other
    \ possibilities like doing a double S but in Sutterlin that looks like an M when
    written.  The fraktur could likely go the opposite, with a long left stem down
    and a shortened Z.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas
    nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-09-08 21:11:43'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>Ralf, I like your variation but I think you worry too much about B-ness.
    Character differentiation at small sizes is an issue in itself, one that affects
    all characters. b-ness, or Beta-ness, is also a problem that afflicts many of
    the badly designed lowercase esszet glyphs of the past ...</cite>\r\n\r\nAfter
    looking again at all the designs made by designers from outside Germany, I must
    bring up the B-ness problem again. It is true that the similarities between between
    \xDF and \u03B2 are no problem at all, because they will usually never appear
    in the same context. But B and the Capital Sharp S will appear in the same context
    all the time, when German texts are set in uppercase letters. And even worse:
    This can easily change the meaning of the text. For example: \"gro\xDF\" (big)
    is used all the time. But if you set it in uppercase letters and the Capital Sharp
    S is used, you can easily read is as \"grob\", which means rude/crude/gross. \r\nSo
    it is really necessary to have a clear distinction between B and the Capital Sharp
    S. An increased width* might be one way to achieve this, but there might be other
    ways. Looking at the examples in this thread, I don't think we have a sufficient
    solution yet. \r\n\r\n*) I don't think the design of the Capital Sharp S (or any
    other letter) requires certain proportions in a non-geometric typeface. What \"feels
    right\", is just what we are used to. But since we are creating a new letter here,
    we can make up the proportions that will feel right in the future. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-13 13:04:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...designs made by designers from outside Germany...</em>\r\n\r\nI don't
    accept that inference.\r\nMy designs follow the St\xF6tzner model.\r\n\r\nBut
    continuing your line of thought Ralf, note that the feature of my glyphs which
    Bill has criticized--the \"terminal curling back\"--actually serves to disambiguate
    the letter from what could otherwise be interpreted as a \"stencil\" version of
    B at the bottom."
  created: '2008-09-13 17:11:17'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "Really no offence indended. Note that I said that in my opinion WE (all)
    haven't found a sufficient solution yet. \r\nActually I wouln't be surprised if
    someone outside Germany would find the best shape. We Germans might not to see
    the wood for the trees. I just wanted to point out problems such as \"grob\" vs.
    \"gro\xDF\", which might not be as obvious for designers who don't speak the language.
    \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-13 17:46:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "This is greatly a problem with adding a new glyph when the others have been
    around for centuries. We can also confuse a P for an R or an R for a B but we
    won't because we are quite used to them for years. The proposed cap Eszett form
    with a curve on the upper left is the only non-circular cap letter to have a curve
    in this position except the S (discounting G, C, O and Q as circular forms). The
    distinguishes it from the B as well as anything else. I don't think proportions
    can be dependable a solution for distinction given the variability that we already
    have. Think of a condensed/compressed cut sans like Univers or Compacta and a
    widened cap form in one letter would just stick out too much and stop reading.
    \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-09-13 18:06:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...no offence indended...</em>\r\n\r\nNone taken. \r\nIMO, St\xF6tzner's
    solution, as presently in the Unicode chart, is OK.\r\nOne alternate (see Toshi's
    example, above) is OK for old-style.\r\nAnd other treatments, such as Matthew's,
    are worth pursuing.\r\n\r\nThere is a problem with the St\xF6tzner model, however.\r\nNot
    the basic shape (I agree with Chris' rationale), but the way that the stress is
    rendered, which doesn't conform to a simple broad-pen paradigm.\r\nThe top half
    of the right side is \"reverse\" stressed, as in Z, but the bottom half is normally
    stressed, as in B. \r\nThese two differing stress treatments are perhaps too close
    together.\r\nSo really it's up to type designers to resolve this issue.\r\nIn
    Beaufort (see my Sept. 5 post), I followed consistent stress angle and made the
    diagonal thin in the Light weight, but somehow that didn't work for me in the
    Bold weights.\r\nThere's lots of scope for designers to tailor their cap-eszett
    glyphs to their typefaces.\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-13 19:00:11'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Interesting discussion. I've been playing with different forms for my font
    Eternal (see in the serif critique section if you're interested) and wonder if
    anyone can shed any light on my drafts for the capital eszett. You can probably
    tell it's not a letter I use!\r\nThe angular bit seems to my eye to need to be
    thin, as the curve and the stem are both heavy. I tried both ways, which ones
    are best?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Eszett_5122.jpg]\r\n(Version
    2 is the lowercase)\r\nI think version 1 might be best, if the right serif on
    the base disappears and the counter can be narrower?\r\nThanks :)\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-16 00:19:22'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "I rather like 1 and 7, but I think 1 might be a bit too dynamic.  Because
    the R and 5 push upwards (tho not the B interestingly) I prefer the ones that
    have a slight upward swing on the top (1, 6, 7).  Does your uc J descend?  What
    would a combination of the left stem and top part of 7 look like with the lower
    part of 1?  Number 4 the smaller S is just a bit too obvious to my eye.  I think
    5 or 6 would be a more \"conservative\" form if we can use that term yet :)\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-09-16 05:28:37'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I have attempted both ways, thinning the first version to make it not too
    dynamic, and combining the bits you suggested (though the stress is not really
    right on the infacing curve).\r\n5 and 6 in my last post look kind of Cyrillic
    to me.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/eszett2_4337.jpg]"
  created: '2008-09-16 21:44:01'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I don't find the use of what is clearly a lower-case-sized s in the capital
    eszett design at all convincing. It's pleasing to the eye, but it just doesn't
    feel like a capital letter to me! So something like version 5 or 6 works better
    to my eye, even though it is not as pleasing a design.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-09-19 02:15:51'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'I''m with Thomas on no. 5, except that I also think it''s the most pleasing.
    For what it''s worth I also strongly support the non-chirographic elements of
    the design. '
  created: '2008-09-19 12:44:50'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Thanks for your comments. It is a hard thing to go with a less pleasing design
    because it fits with the other letters, but I guess that's where the balance has
    to be brought in. \r\nI fear it's a case of \"a beautiful collection of letters,
    not a collection of beautiful letters.\" \r\nI'll keep tinkering! \r\n:)"
  created: '2008-09-28 21:19:03'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "I like 5 and 6. \r\nA."
  created: '2008-10-06 02:48:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I don't think it's possible to adequately appraise the choices without seeing
    them set in words.
  created: '2008-10-07 15:01:26'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Matthew\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/files/capital_eszett3c_3909.png\r\n\r\nThe
    one with the biggest hook (the third one from the right) is the most terrible.
    I am German and I like the fourth one from the right the most, although it could
    have a smaller width. From round about 100 Eszett I see only one is not a pain
    in my eyes. Especially those ones, that are curved on the left side only, look
    like aliens. I don\u2019t think, it is a question of habituation. I think, that
    I prefer those Eszett with a descender. Maybe because I hate it, how the end of
    the stroke almost touches the (serif of the) vertical stem. And in the case of
    the fourth one from the right I especially like the directional change. Many Eszett
    are too wide in my opinion. Maybe it is possible to make them less wide, if they
    have a descender.\r\n\r\n@ All\r\n\r\nI think, it is better not to release a font
    with a capital Eszett, that has not passed 20 German eyes (not necessarily blue
    eyes!) at least."
  created: '2010-04-08 10:39:52'
date: '2008-08-25 07:09:19'
node_type: forum
title: Small Capital Eszett?

---
