---
author:
  name: Maverick18x
  picture: 114301
body: "Hey guys,\r\n\r\nI know you all have at least one font that you absolutely
  hate and refuse to use, so I thought it would be fun to start a list. The rules
  are as follows:\r\n\r\n1) Name the ONE font you'd kill. (Arial)\r\n2) Explain why
  you chose it. (it's a knockoff)\r\n3) Suggest an alternative. (Helvetica)\r\n\r\nEnjoy,\r\nMatt\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "1. Times New Roman\r\n2. After Helvetica and Arial, the most ubiquitous typeface
    in the world, and it performs horribly in most of the settings in which its used.\r\n3.
    <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/singles/ourtype/arnhem_normal_ot/\">Arnhem</a>.
    A new serif for a new era."
  created: '2008-08-26 01:18:52'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "1. Times New Roman.\r\n2. Because as a newspaper face it\u2019s outdated,
    and for everything else it looks like some idiot used a dated newspaper face in
    the wrong place. Because as much as designers love to bitch about Arial, Arial
    in all caps looks a lot better to me than Times.\r\n3. Stone Serif. Sumner Stone
    is the forgotten typographic genius of our era. His designs are fecund with potential
    that almost nobody is doing a damned thing with."
  created: '2008-08-26 02:24:33'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: "1. Times New Roman.\r\n2. It's ugly and it's ubiquitous.\r\n3. <a href=\"http://www.dardenstudio.com/typefaces/freight_text\">Freight
    Text</a>."
  created: '2008-08-26 04:02:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "1) Helvetica\r\n2) It's a goddam cyclops of a font.\r\n3) Unica\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-26 05:43:10'
- author:
    name: Katharina
    picture: 112995
  body: "1) Charlemagne\r\n2) I hate the numbers with those ugly serifes.\r\n3) Requiem"
  created: '2008-08-26 07:46:27'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "<em>1. Times New Roman\r\n2. After Helvetica and Arial, the most ubiquitous
    typeface in the world, and it performs horribly in most of the settings in which
    its used.\r\n3. Arnhem. A new serif for a new era.</em>\r\n\r\nStewf, I came very
    close to presenting a plan for doing that very thing corporation-wide at one of
    my past employers.\r\n\r\nThe result: no dice. Free beat good, yet again.\r\n\r\n1)
    Impact\r\n\r\n2) Its inclusion in MS software has created a belief, apparently,
    that no other condensed bold is necessary, so people use it to make an IMPACT
    without a thought about LEGIBILITY.\r\n\r\n3) Univers Condensed Black (but, really,
    most <em>any</em> decent grot/gothic with that variant will do)."
  created: '2008-08-26 20:06:44'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'While I can''t think of any fonts I''d go so far as to kill, I''d kill fonts
    with unnecessarily restrictive EULAs. '
  created: '2008-08-26 21:47:31'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "Times is not bad !\r\n\r\nIt is just in every single computer in the planet. "
  created: '2008-08-27 00:56:10'
- author:
    name: John the Fontaholic
  body: "Hi everyone,\r\n\r\nCan't believe this one hasn't been suggested yet...\r\n\r\n1.
    Comic Sans\r\n\r\n2. It's a fugly abomination that Microsoft thoughtlessly inflicted
    upon the world, thereby allowing millions of innocent (and not-so-innocent) computer
    users worldwide to perpetrate crimes against typography\r\n\r\n3. Any number of
    comic book-inspired casual handwriting/handlettering fonts out there, especially
    anything done by Comicraft.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nJohn the Fontaholic"
  created: '2008-08-27 04:05:29'
- author:
    name: Grrrben
    picture: 112992
  body: '@ Matt: Helvetica is a rip off too.'
  created: '2008-08-27 11:09:29'
- author:
    name: Dav
    picture: 128119
  body: "1. Microgramma/Eurostile\r\n\r\n2. It sure was such a great typeface, back
    then. But \u2014 It's so heavily overused, and abused, currently, it's not even
    funny anymore.\r\n\r\n3. <a href=\"http://www.foundrytypes.co.uk/foundry_monoline/monoline.html\"
    target=\"_blank\">(Foundry) Monoline</a>; <a href=\"http://www.suitcasetype.com/index.php?lmut=en&part=fonts&font=18\"
    target=\"_blank\">Vafle</a>; And some more...\r\n\r\nDav"
  created: '2008-08-27 11:18:52'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: Everyone is hating on the web fonts :(
  created: '2008-08-27 18:33:45'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Oh, but Haley, no one is hating on the <a href="http://www.will-harris.com/verdana-georgia.htm">good
    ones</a>.
  created: '2008-08-27 18:52:22'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "1.+ 2. The most annoying sans serif i know in the recent years was/is FF
    Dax/FF Dax Wide. This typeface is so pretentious, and it's everywhere \u2013 screaming
    at me improperly.\r\n\r\n3. Daxline would be calmer, Schmalhans would be nicer.\r\n\r\nI
    agree, Eurostile should pause for n-years. \r\n\r\nI have no problems with \"the
    hidden\" Times New Roman, where do you see it in use? I just see Verdana, Arial/Helvetica
    and Georgia, and a bit Tahoma on the web. \r\n "
  created: '2008-08-27 20:59:01'
- author:
    name: smongey
  body: "1. Curlz MT\r\n2. It makes me dizzy\r\n3. Anything else"
  created: '2008-08-27 23:01:08'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: 'A few of many Curlz alts: <a href="http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/fontfont/ff_fontesque_1/">FF
    Fontesque</a>, <a href="http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/singles/itc/marguerita_std_plain/">Marguerita</a>,
    <a href="http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/singles/itc/scriptease_std_plain/">Scriptease</a>,
    <a href="http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/itc/swank_std_virtual/">Swank</a>,
    <a href="http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/singles/itc/gigi_std_plain/">Gigi</a>'
  created: '2008-08-27 23:18:55'
- author:
    name: smongey
  body: All equally dizzying. Although I don't mind Swank!
  created: '2008-08-27 23:22:19'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "1. Concorde (Can't remember the foundry).\r\n2. Had to use it. Just detested
    it's looks.\r\n3. Any nice serif with good lookin' italics."
  created: '2008-08-28 01:07:12'
- author:
    name: vivicity
    picture: 115742
  body: My vote also goes to Comic Sans. Especially in business correspondence!
  created: '2008-08-28 06:26:58'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "1: Comic Sans\r\n1: University Roman\r\n1: Stop\r\n1: Revue\r\n1: Ayumi\r\n1:
    Balloon\r\n1: Hobo\r\n1: Papyrus\r\n1: Keedy\r\n1: Curlz\r\n1: NotCaslon\r\n1:
    Remedy\r\n2: there was a time these were fashionable, but there is a time one
    should be kind enough to stop use them everywhere.\r\n3: anything else which is
    not looking too ugly.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-08-28 08:34:59'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: "1. digitized versions of distressed type\r\n\r\n2. the premise is that the
    type has existed in place for a while and has eroded or been distressed by the
    elements. However, each letter is distressed exactly the same. Every E is the
    same. Every S is the same. So a headline with repeated letters looks goofy.\r\n\r\n3.
    there are better ways of distressing type than purchasing a pre-distressed font.
    Photoshop works. Or the old-fashioned method of outputting the type and beating
    the crap out of it, then scanning it back in, offers great satisfaction."
  created: '2008-08-28 16:24:31'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: or Trixie HD.
  created: '2008-08-28 18:49:07'
- author:
    name: xil3
    picture: 115456
  body: "1. Papyrus\r\n2. overused to make things look old and traditional.\r\n3.
    don't replace.\r\n\r\nWhat many of you seem to be ignoring is the fact that many
    of these fonts are used everywhere because they are free. As 'Chris Rugen' said,
    free beats good so you can't suggest a pay font to be used instead of a free font.
    \r\nThe problem I'm realizing is that the mass public does not care about type
    or correct usage, it's only us that care so deeply about these things."
  created: '2008-08-28 22:59:25'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Mass public, no. But it's always nice for <em>professionals</em> to have alternatives
    on hand for clients who have a particular typeface in mind due to the fact that
    it's on their computer.
  created: '2008-08-28 23:05:49'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "For Papyrus I humbly suggest:\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/creative_alliance/mariposa_sans_std_virtual/\">Mariposa
    Sans</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/linotype/palatino_sans_informal_com_virtual/\">Oxida</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/linotype/palatino_sans_informal_com_virtual/\">Palatino
    Sans Informal</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/letterperfect/florentine_set_ot/\">Florentine
    Set</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/singles/itc/itc_cancione_std_regular/\">ITC
    Cancione</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/singles/ihof/p22_peanut_pro/\">P22
    Peanut</a>"
  created: '2008-08-28 23:09:55'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "1. Optima\r\n\r\n2. It\u2019s what I would call \u2018spie\xDFig\u2019 in
    german. It\u2019s so 50ies. I mean the grey 50ies that were to be washed away
    by the Pop and Beat rebellion in the 60ies.\r\n\r\n3. Angie Sans maybe"
  created: '2008-08-28 23:38:29'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Amen, Jan. <a href="http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/typetogether/cora/">Cora</a>
    and <a href="http://www.identifont.com/show?BNC">Accent Graphic</a> for replacements
    too.
  created: '2008-08-29 00:00:15'
- author:
    name: Jason Walley
    picture: 112725
  body: "1. ) Interstate, or whatever is on the majority of highway signs across America.\r\n\r\n2.
    ) I've always found it somewhat clumsy and arbitrarily sharp (notably on the lowercase
    l) for something that adorns so much of the country.\r\n\r\n3. ) <a href=\"http://www.clearviewhwy.com/\">ClearviewHwy</a>.
    It's so much more understated and legible. I noticed the sudden increase in legibility
    when driving through Pennsylvania a year or two ago (where most of the signs have
    already been switched)."
  created: '2008-08-29 00:05:46'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "... and FF Advert maybe (with the two-storey \u2018a\u2019)?"
  created: '2008-08-29 00:11:49'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: What you're seeing on the highway is a <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FHWA_Series_fonts">typeface</a>
    designed by the US Highway Administration (mostly engineers). <a href="http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/Interstate">Interstate</a>
    is a design inspired by that typeface designed by Tobias Frere-Jones (a bonafide
    type designer).
  created: '2008-08-29 00:13:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "\"Inspired\" is too generous.\r\n\"Based very closely on\" is more accurate.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-29 00:26:51'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Oh, I think it's much too different for that description.
  created: '2008-08-29 00:28:36'
- author:
    name: NotBen78
    picture: 115139
  body: "I get tired of seeing Rosewood. \r\n\r\nOveruse. \r\n\r\nAny other font. "
  created: '2008-08-29 19:29:38'
- author:
    name: nvhladek
    picture: 112094
  body: "Bank Gothic.\r\n\r\nAs a sci-fi fan, I am completely burned out on it.\r\n\r\nHard
    to say. Most sci-fi type choices have become terribly clich\xE9.\r\n\r\n--\r\nNick
    Hladek"
  created: '2008-08-29 20:23:32'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Very kind of you Stephen\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-08-29 20:26:15'
- author:
    name: shawkash
    picture: 110759
  body: "1.Avant Garde Gothic.\r\n2.Avant Garde Gothic looks like a swiss cheese.
    \r\n3.I don't have an alternative cause I avoid type styles whose counters are
    very large in relation to the stroke weight. This will slow the reader. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2008-08-29 20:34:15'
- author:
    name: javaboy7962
    picture: 114521
  body: "There is a movement to  Ban Comic Sans. I think it's Bancomicsans.com. \r\n\r\nI
    would agree that comic sans is a crime against typography. It actually does look
    like a comic book when it's in all caps, but everyone uses it for normal type.
    \r\n\r\n 1. Comic Sans\r\n 2. It looks like bad fifth grader handwriting and it
    pisses me off when people use it to write procedures at my office. \r\n 3. Lucida
    Console"
  created: '2008-08-30 03:47:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "OK Stephen, I'll nix the \"very\". But that's it.\r\nPolishing is way different
    than creating.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-30 19:50:23'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: "<cite>[Comic Sans MS] actually does look like a comic book when it\u2019s
    in all caps....</cite>\r\n\r\nI strongly disagree."
  created: '2008-08-30 21:49:54'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>\r\nI know you all have at least one font that you absolutely hate and
    refuse to use, so I thought it would be fun to start a list. The rules are as
    follows:\r\n\r\n1) Name the ONE font you\u2019d kill. (Arial)\r\n2) Explain why
    you chose it. (it\u2019s a knockoff)\r\n3) Suggest an alternative. (Helvetica)\r\n</em>\r\n\r\nLet
    me do this one sound bite at a time:\r\n\r\n<em>I know...</em>\r\n\r\nYou know
    only what you think you know, and what you think or believe you \"know\" is subject
    to errors of omission. Ignorance is golden in the end. As for what other people
    know, you <em>cannot know</em> the contents of their minds.\r\n\r\n<em>I know
    you all have at least one font that you absolutely hate and refuse to use...</em>\r\n\r\nNope.
    Not even one. Such a mindset is unknown to me. Such an attitude fits the definition
    of what the ancient Greeks saw as Tyranny with a ruthless capital T.\r\n\r\n<em>...so
    I thought it would be fun to start a list.</em>\r\n\r\nSome strange new definition
    of the word \"fun\" I hadn't encountered before. You are about the fiftieth person
    to start such a hate list. Nothing could be more tedious or predictable at Typophile.\r\n\r\n<em>1)
    Name the ONE font you\u2019d kill. (Arial)\r\n2) Explain why you chose it. (it\u2019s
    a knockoff)\r\n3) Suggest an alternative. (Helvetica)\r\n</em>\r\n\r\n1) Get over
    it. Fonts cannot be killed, and expression of the desire to do so is an expression
    of your own insecurity, a projection of your anxieties and fears on what you don't
    understand.\r\n2) Explain why you have to pick on any body or any thing.\r\n3)
    Tyranny, murder.\r\n4) <strong>Also try:</strong> designing your own fonts.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2008-08-30 22:39:08'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: This is all subjective. No need to poo-poo on someone else's fun.
  created: '2008-08-31 01:14:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yeah Tiff, don't poo-poo on James's fun.  ;-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-31 01:24:26'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: True, true. James tells me I need to cut the cards more often. So, I figure
    I'm doing that. Or maybe this isn't what he means. ;^)
  created: '2008-08-31 01:31:06'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Tiffany, Hrant, Eden &#8212; what I wrote isn't a personal attack, but a
    call for tolerance. Albeit inflammatory in style. While it may look as if I am
    taking the topic of this one too seriously, when I see typophiles revving up the
    hate juggernaut I wonder who is poo-pooing who and what. Perhaps you guys can
    tell me; is a thread like this anything other than poo-hanging session?\r\n\r\nHate
    is a corrosive word. Look at where hatred got the guy who stated the Ban Comic
    Sans campaign. Nowhere. My point&#8212;hating what you dislike rarely makes that
    thing go away, and we're better off tolerating it. Nobody here will engage in
    any actual killing, and the life of no living thing is under threat. But \"kill\"
    is still dangerous corrosive word, I think best reserved for living things that
    actually threaten us and cannot be tolerated. The national socialists in Germany
    hated the Jews and killed between 9 and 11 million of them. The Jews weren't threatening
    anybody, but when the axis powers took control of what was left of Germany we
    found it neccessary to execute the murderers who had tried to exterminate an entire
    race of people. Only in extreme circumstances like that is killing anybody neccessary.
    Why the Nazis had to hate the Jews. Well, clearly it was the Nazis projecting
    their fears and insecurities onto a convenient social / cultural group.\r\n\r\n<strong>He
    who saves one life saves the entire world.</strong>\r\n\r\nWill hating certain
    fonts we dislike (can't bring ourselves to tolerate) make them disappear? Not
    likely. So where does hating them get us?\r\n\r\n<strong>He who hates one font
    hates all of typography</strong> Don't take it literally. I'm speaking figuratively.\r\n\r\n<em>Wouldn't
    your time be better spent on days to come\r\nNot the ones that went?</em>\r\n&#8212;words
    by Ron Sexsmith.\r\n\r\nTiffany&#8212;I'm not out of control, not doing a Bill
    Troop trip here, but having you step in and remind me why I joined this community
    in the first place is a good thing. We all need to keep a grip on the things that
    really count.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-08-31 10:52:44'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "You\u2019re really hating this thread, aren\u2019t you, James?"
  created: '2008-08-31 12:13:47'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "You're really misunderstanding what I say, aren't you, Jan?\r\n\r\n(sigh)
    I'm imitating you. How predictable. How boring.\r\n\r\nNo. What makes you think
    I hate the thread? I only find it abhorrent, childish and stupid, arrogant and
    concieted. Intolerant.\r\n\r\nWhy don't you attempt to answer the question: Is
    the topic of this thread anything other than poo-hanging?\r\n\r\nIt seems you
    think that my questioning it amounts to hating it. How simplistic. Such a black
    & white view. I've seen you express hatred of numerous fonts. How intolerant.
    Such a black & white view.\r\n\r\nThere is a difference between being critical
    of something and hating it.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-08-31 13:39:14'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "It wan't neccessary to cut the cards before. It is at this point we should
    cut the cards. If I am really saying terrible things and expressing hatred for
    something, you shouldn't feel the need to retaliate or at least suppress what
    I say, because it only makes me look bad (if true).\r\n\r\nDon't let it escalate
    into a personal fight. Go on with the typo discussion. Remember why you joined
    this community in the first place.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-08-31 13:40:00'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "I wasn\u2019t all that serious and I think you\u2019re taking this thread
    waayyy too serious.\r\nShould have added a ;-) to my last post.\r\n\r\n<em>I\u2019ve
    seen you express hatred of numerous fonts.</em>\r\nMe? Where? When? I\u2019m pretty
    sure I never stated I <strong>hate</strong> a font.\r\nI dislike, find overused
    but I don\u2019t hate."
  created: '2008-08-31 13:51:30'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "After Comic Sans, Arial and Times New Roman the most ranted font is probably
    Papyrus.\r\nBut it was just yesterday, that I saw a perfect use of it. Really.
    It was a perfect choice for that Rooibos tea package. Beautiful.\r\n\r\nRemember:
    there is no bad font. Only fonts used inappropriately.\r\n\r\nSzabolcs"
  created: '2008-08-31 14:24:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "There is no love without hate.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-31 14:59:41'
- author:
    name: Fredrik
    picture: 110755
  body: "<cite> There is no love without hate </cite>\r\n\r\nIf we're getting into
    dialectics, I would argue Hate is not the opposite to Love. Maybe Indifference.\r\nA
    thread on what typefaces leave us indifferent would perhaps be more interesting.
    The ones typographers hate seem so predictable it makes me yawn - Arial, Comic
    Sans, Papyrus, Optima... - as do the motivations why. Why a typeface leaves us
    indifferent may start a proper discourse on design and typography.\r\n\r\nBut
    then again, hate is fun, indifference isn't.\r\n\r\n1. DIN\r\n2. It's everywhere
    and it shouldn't be\r\n3. Something completely different"
  created: '2008-08-31 20:14:49'
- author:
    name: shawkash
    picture: 110759
  body: "James, hate is not for the font it self, it is more for the wrong use of
    the font. I personally don't use the word \"hate\" or \"kill\" too, but I am sure
    the thread didn't mean anything like that rather a funny way to describe the general
    disapproval of some popular fonts - as far as I see - in wrong use. \r\n\r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2008-08-31 21:14:25'
- author:
    name: Maverick18x
    picture: 114301
  body: "James, I thought the point by point analysis of such a frivolous thread was
    hilarious.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/wilton/plato/\">Plato</a>
    is a good slightly-less-ugly substitute for Papyrus.\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-31 22:03:25'
- author:
    name: exfish
    picture: 114724
  body: "This thread is miraculously defying [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Godwin%27s_law|Godwin's
    Law]]. Color me impressed! Anyway, to business:\r\n\r\n1) Myriad Pro\r\n2) Bland
    and lifeless\r\n3) Calibri"
  created: '2008-09-01 02:35:25'
- author:
    name: javaboy7962
    picture: 114521
  body: "@ Szabolcs\r\n\r\nYou make a good point. I think overuse and inappropriate
    use of Comic Sans anger me more than anything. I guess I shouldn't be all for
    censoring creative expression of Comic Sans (if you can call it that). However,
    I often wonder what is wrong with the people who think it's okay to use it at
    work. \r\n\r\nAlso, on Papyrus, I think it's hysterical how popular it has become.
    It makes me think of bad History Channel specials about Ancient Egypt. "
  created: '2008-09-01 19:22:28'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "I have an external hard drive which has a folder which contains backups of
    the source bitmaps for Otoboke. For some reason I can't delete the folder or the
    files contained within. As much as I'd love sit around and rag on the standard
    Typophile hatethread fonts (Arial, Papyrus etc.), I would very much like to kill
    the source bitmaps for <a href=\"http://www.typodermic.com/181.html\">Otoboke</a>.\r\n\r\n1:
    Otoboke Source bitmaps\r\n2: It makes my root folder look messy\r\n3: 1970s soft
    core pornography"
  created: '2008-09-02 19:18:08'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: 1. Whatever font Hitler used in the Nazi party logo.
  created: '2008-09-02 21:39:42'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "<em>1. Whatever font Hitler used in the Nazi party logo</em>\r\n\r\n3. And
    replace it with ???\r\n\r\n-> What do you want to say \u2026 ?"
  created: '2008-09-02 21:51:59'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>1. Whatever font Hitler used in the Nazi party logo.</cite>\r\n\r\nThere
    was type in the Nazi logo? "
  created: '2008-09-02 22:36:41'
- author:
    name: Lantz
    picture: 115246
  body: "1. Arnold Boecklin\r\n2. Because it is soooo pass\xE9\r\n3. Bell Bottom"
  created: '2008-09-02 23:14:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "3. And replace it with ???\r\n\r\nSomething by that guy in a coma?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-03 00:38:14'
- author:
    name: wackojacko1138
  body: "You know who else wanted to ban fonts?\r\nHITLER!\r\n(actually, I have absolutely
    no evidence for this statement, but I don't really care)\r\n\r\nI really just
    wanted to say that I love Myriad Pro (especially bold & condensed). It's extremely
    readable without being as boring as, say, Arial.\r\n\r\nI might also submit that
    Calibri, having (thankfully) replaced Arial as the default sans serif font on
    Office 2007/8, is on its way to becoming overused."
  created: '2008-09-03 02:08:42'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "what Ray said\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/08_06 098_3660.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-09-03 02:16:41'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "uh, with apologies to MAD Magazine & Antonio Prohias, of course.\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-09-03 15:03:31'
- author:
    name: "Gr\xE4fenberg"
    picture: 113665
  body: "Well someone sure needs to stop drinking the hyperbole tea :-|\r\n\r\n<ol><li>Mistral</li>\r\n<li>Very
    dated; almost impossible to find it used well (simply seeing it spaced properly
    would be a welcome change).</li>\r\n<li>Maybe Kinescope. </li></ol>\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-03 16:23:08'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "Thanks Russell!\r\nHitler tried to kill Futura for real reals; with his bare
    hands. Renner gave him a couple of nut shots and the rest, as they say, is history."
  created: '2008-09-03 23:50:38'
- author:
    name: TypographyShop
    picture: 114870
  body: "With all due respect to Matthew Carter, Verdana.  It has become the most
    ubiquitous face on the web.  While it's not unattractive when properly used and
    well kerned, it looks horrible with normal web letterspacing.  Its character count
    is very low, it takes up more space than necessary and a page full of it can be
    nauseating.\r\n\r\nWhile the face has nothing in common with Verdana, and isn't
    even a sans serif, I'd suggest Georgia as a much more readable and truly attractive
    web face.  Of course I know that it looks no better on a PC than Times, but on
    a Mac Georgia, whether on the front page of The New York Times or someone's blog,
    is beautiful.\r\n\r\nhttp://typographyshop.com\r\nhttp://kinggroupmedia.com"
  created: '2008-09-06 15:25:20'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: "<cite>Of course I know that [Georgia] looks no better on a PC than Times....</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat?
    That's completely false."
  created: '2008-09-07 04:52:16'
date: '2008-08-26 00:54:25'
title: Kill a Font

---
