---
author:
  name: guifa
  picture: 112214
body: "I just finished working a preliminary version of Greek for Coru\xF1a.  \r\n\r\nIt
  looks pretty good to me but I'm sure I've got a lot of mistakes so I figured a pair
  (or more) of fresh eyes could help me spot any problems with it.  The PDF has the
  modern alphabet and then all the archaic letters and most of the symbols (but not
  Coptic).  I'm a little unsure on some of the archaic letters but from lookin around
  I think I'm not the only one.  Most fonts I've seen have vastly different styles.
  \r\n\r\nUpdate: I'm almost done with a complete range of small caps (yes, even polytonic)
  which the base alphabet can be seen in the v 0,9b file.  I have the full polytonic
  range done for lowercase and 90% of uppercase so I included that.  Italic is done
  for modern monotonic greek but has no archaic or polytonic (yet).  Spacing is greatly
  improved.  \r\n\r\nDecember Update: Now switching gears to polishing out the italic
  and bold.  I THINK I might not have made the bold dark enough, but since I've only
  done the lowercase I figure now is the time to get the comments before I do all
  of the letters."
comments:
- author:
    name: coach outlet online-spammer
  body: "<P>Before we begin thinking the GHD IV Styler is following the same trend
    as video & DVD players, lets take just show just a few major differences. Firstly,
    the GHD IV Styler has almost nothing realistic competition. The GHD IV styler
    is widely regarded for a consumer and high end (hairdressers) while the number
    1 hair styling tool.Secondly, as techniology developes the money necessary production
    reduces thus retail prices reduce. Well my answer suggestions that GHD haven\u2019t
    handed over, any reduction in production costs with the retailer (salon owners).
    In fact cost prices have gone up resulting from <a href=\"http://www.louisvuittonpursebag.com/\"><strong>louis
    vuitton bags</strong></a>  a surge in the RRP. Here we are at in the event the
    GHD MK1 to <a href=\"http://www.coachfactoryoutleti.org/\"><strong>coach factory
    outlet</strong></a>  Mk3 were discounted one of the a RRP of ??99, the actual
    MK4 GHD styler provides a RRP of ??119.</P><P></P><P>Exactly what continues to
    be lowering the retail prices? The result we have found simple. Online competition,
    with online retailer endeavoring to out do eath other ghd hair straightener for
    being the lowest priced website for GHD IV Styler . I personally, work at a hairdressing
    salon <a href=\"http://www.coachoutletonlinepicke.com/\"><strong>coach outlet
    online</strong></a>  and i know which price range of GHD IV Styler. Despite that
    these web based stores receive massive discounts on there products, they could
    still merely be making between <a href=\"http://www.coachoutletonline-bag.com/\"><strong>coach
    outlet online</strong></a>  ??6-8 a hard and fast and perhaps any loss. I possed
    this with a senior GHD worker from a GHD event in the year. Her response, was
    which she believed, people were with their company as loss leaders to operate
    individuals to there sites. In the hope they retain the prospect for <a href=\"http://www.buyscoachoutletonline.net/\"><strong>coach
    outlet online</strong></a>  future purchases of hair & bath and body goods.I cannot
    really buy into this theory.Lots of individuals will for sure invest in a straightners
    without additional shampoos and styling products. So, i\u2019m not really really
    sure the way this works, in the form of long-term business strategy. The very
    first thing for several though, would be that the consumer might be gaining from
    these reduced prices. </P><P></P><P>In order <a href=\"http://www.coachpurseoutletss.net/\"><strong>cheap
    coach purses</strong></a>  to find out about GHD and locate the ideal price on
    GHD hair straighteners, <a href=\"http://www.cheapcoachbagusas.com/\"><strong>cheap
    coach purses</strong></a>  then visit our website GHD IV Styler Stockists.Stories
    about Britney Spears and her hair disasters are not uncommon, but was damage to
    britney\u2019s hair just before the infamous shaving incident caused buy faulty,
    broken or damaged ghd hair straighteners? Faulty ghd\u2019s usually are not all
    that uncommon and so they can on occasions over-heat and cause terminal damage
    to curly hair. Maybe Britney must have used a ghd repair service, there are a
    couple companies these days which can participate in a ghd repair shop with regard
    to ??19.95 likely the biggest ghd repair company in england and wales is Ion Originals
    Ltd. they run websites that include www.ghdrepair.co.uk It is advisable to get
    those ghd\u2019s inspected they were eradicated or become faulty.Common ghd faults
    include: sparking, buzzing, intermittent power, cable faults & over-heating. </P><P></P>"
  created: '2012-11-30 02:59:29'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "Here's my 2 obols' worth as a nonspecialist. I'm also not a designer, so
    I'll leave comment on the modern alphabet to those more competent than I am. You
    may want to check your outline directions, though. I think in general you've done
    a reasonable job of trying to make up forms that fit the logic of your modern
    alphabet, considering that there really isn't much to go on for a number of the
    characters that never existed until very recently, but in some cases the results
    are a little disconcerting.\r\n\r\nSampi is a problem. While I understand the
    reasons that they decided to separate archaic sampi and modern sampi and then
    make them both have uppercase and lowercase forms, I think that in practical terms
    it's completely perverse. The road to hell, etc. Anyway, we're stuck with two
    characters that never before existed. For your uppercase modern Sampi, I'd suggest
    making it look a bit less like a flipped euro sign - perhaps tilt it a bit counterclockwise.
    Your archaic Sampi should have stronger downstrokes on the sides; at the present
    weight they look more like big serifs than actual strokes. The lowercase modern
    sampi looks like it has been squashed flat like a bug on a wall; normally there's
    more curvature to its spine, and the lower of the two strokes in the middle might
    want to have its connection moved up a bit, so it doesn't look like it's at the
    same angle as the upper one. For the archaic sampi, you should make up something
    more easily recognizable as a cursive of your uppercase form. What you have there
    looks kind of squashed again, and perhaps too upsilon-ish. I'd be inclined to
    make a single curved stroke over the top, like in some uncial forms, rather than
    the two curves you've got there.\r\n\r\nThe uppercase San should have straight
    sides, like your Mu, except that the central \"v\" part doesn't go down to baseline.
    The resemblance is inconvenient, but the ancient alphabets that used San never
    had a Mu of Trajanic form - the sides of the Mu were diagonal and/or only the
    left stroke went down to baseline.\r\n\r\nThe lowercase digamma is a little odd;
    the two horizontal strokes might want to look more visually unified. At the least,
    I would suggest that it needs to be brought more into the same chirographic model
    as your modern letters - the horizontal strokes on sigma and tau end in a slight
    upcurve, not a downward hook like you have on the lower horizontal stroke of the
    digamma. The same applies to your heta.\r\n\r\nThe archaic Koppa and Stigma need
    longer stems, to differentiate them more clearly from Omicron and lunate Sigma.\r\n\r\nThe
    descender on the lowercase archaic koppa looks too slanted. Normally it's either
    vertical or mostly vertical with a curve or flick to the right at the bottom.\r\n\r\nThe
    lowercase modern koppa also looks a bit squashed; perhaps try curving the left
    stroke more to the left as it descends, and maybe not take it all the way to the
    baseline?\r\n\r\nThe lowercase Pamphylian digamma probably shouldn't have so much
    descender; it looks too much like an eta.\r\n\r\nYour various lunate Sigmas look
    a bit anemic compared to the other uppercase letters, probably because of where
    you cut the ends. How are you handling the terminals on Latin C?\r\n\r\nI hope
    all this is at least a bit useful, and I recognize the irony of my giving design
    advice, when I doubt that I could do anywhere near as well as you have."
  created: '2008-09-01 23:37:12'
- author:
    name: sasapetrova
    picture: 115714
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/VEB_Two_Greek_Prototype_Fon_5776.gif]\r\n\r\nMy
    comments about your Greek characters for your Corunna typeface are the following:\r\nCapitals\r\nSigma:
    its construction is a little unbalanced compared to the two Greek prototypes fonts.\r\nXi
    and Rho: are missing from your sample.\r\nPhi: is too narrow.\r\nThe accent on
    the Greek Capital vowel letters should be moved 20-30 em to the left because they
    are too close to the letters.\r\nLower case\r\nnu: due to its construction can
    be confused with upsilon.\r\nepsilon and psi: are too narrow.\r\ndelta: is too
    wide.\r\nbeta: needs alternate (as shown in the prototypes that I am sending).\r\nxi:
    is missing from your sample.\r\nphi and psi: should have the same descender endings.\r\nphi,
    psi and omega: should have about the same width.\r\nomega: open up the stroke
    endings otherwise it will confused with the symbol of infinity or two omicron
    stuck together.\r\nkappa: nowadays we use in Greek texts the Latin lower case
    \u2018x\u2019 instead of chi so the kappa you designed will be confused with the
    currently used \u2018x\u2019 as chi.\r\npi: the left hand side ending of the horizontal
    stroke of pi should be extended 30-40 em to the left, otherwise the letter looks
    unbalanced. \r\npi: the right hook (ending of the right vertical stem at the baseline)
    of pi should be a little bit more narrow, say the average of the hook of iota
    and tau.\r\nI like your typeface very much and among its merits and most important
    its distinct and novel Greek classical typographic style.   \r\n"
  created: '2008-09-09 17:56:36'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Wow, thanks for such a detailed critique from both of you. I wasn't expecting
    anything quite so detailed.  I should be able to get a new version up in the next
    day or two.  I've already got most of the archaic letters redone.\r\n\r\nThe lunate
    sigmas are at present directly using the latin C (or reversed with weight-adjustment).
    \ I'll double check that to make sure I didn't accidentally lob of some weight
    by accident.\r\n\r\nNatasa, so these days chi doesn't really descend?  Would it
    be best to raise or lower the kappa's bottom stem's connection point (eg, make
    it much more like a K shape or more like my alternate kappa with the \u0418 shape?
    \ \r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta
    de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-09-09 18:40:13'
- author:
    name: sasapetrova
    picture: 115714
  body: "Guifa, great to hear from you, I will send you some designs for kappa, so
    that you have a clearer morphology scheme. Also I will scan certain 'Greek' parts
    from the \"Specimen Book of \"MONOTYPE NON-LATIN FACES and forward them to you.\r\n\r\nCould
    you be so kind as to help me with the following:\r\n\r\nI need some help and directions
    about how to go doing the following. Can anyone help me please.\r\n\r\n1. How
    do I insert an icon for my ID in Typophile?\r\n\r\n2. Which is the ideal size
    in mm and resolution for inserting / posting images?\r\n\r\n3. How do I post a
    PDF file in a thread (instead of an image - which is the default type)?\r\n\r\n4.
    I have sent a typeface for critiqe under a preliminary name (Thetis) and now I
    want to alter to another one (Semele) which is the final name, do I start a new
    thread under the final name? Do I contact the Typophile webmaster for that? What
    would you advise that I should do? "
  created: '2008-09-10 07:01:36'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "1. Click on your username either next to your post in the thread or above
    the post new comment box. This brings you to your user profile page. Click the
    \"edit\" link from the control bar on that page and follow the instructions on
    the next page.\r\n\r\n2. Maximum dimensions for user icons are 60x60 and the maximum
    size is 24 kB. Inline images can be up to 599 pixels wide. Wider images will be
    displayed, but must be scrolled horizontally to view in full. There appears to
    be no limit  on image height. PNG is the preferred format, but JPG and GIF work
    too.\r\n\r\n3. You can attach file types other than inline images only if you
    are the originator of the thread. If you are the originator, you can click \"edit\"
    above the first post, and upload PDF or other file formats to the Typophile server
    for others to download using the features on that page. This can be done by you
    at the moment you originate the thread or any time after.\r\n\r\n4. If you are
    the originator of the thread, you can also edit the thread title through the same
    page where you attach a file."
  created: '2008-09-10 07:25:46'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "You can add your icon under the \"My account\" link at the top right off
    any page.\r\n\r\nHrm, in mm I'm not sure.  For images the size is around 500ish
    pixels to prevent wrapping.  For quick samples most people on here post a JPG
    and for detailed work attach a PDF.\r\n\r\nYou can post a PDF by editing your
    first post in a thread.  You can't though if you didn't start the thread.\r\n\r\nWhen
    you're viewing your thread, there's an \"Edit\" link at the top right by \"View\",
    you can it adjust the name of the thread.  So, let's say I wanted to change the
    name of Coru\xF1a to K\u03BF\u03C1\u03CE\u03BD\u03B1.  I might rename the thread
    \"K\u03BF\u03C1\u03CE\u03BD\u03B1 (was Coru\xF1a Greek Version)\" that way people
    can keep track of it.  Cuttlefish has been using the structure \"Agamemnon continued,
    v.XX + what's new\".\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas
    nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-09-10 07:30:30'
- author:
    name: sasapetrova
    picture: 115714
  body: "Thanks a lot Cuttlefish and Guifa. I will try out what you suggested. \r\n\r\nAnd
    one other thing, at what resolution in dpi should the image posted be ?\r\n\r\nGuifa
    and Cuttlefish, a question for you both. I have two very important PDF files that
    show in great detail the Alternate designs of Greek Characters (Old Style and
    Contemporary), how can I possible send them to you INTACT and as PDF files?\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-10 07:57:50'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I think the browsers will default the pixel pitch to screen resolution. Setting
    at 72dpi (normal screen resolution on Macs) should be adequate and have no adverse
    results. Total pixel size is more important.\r\n\r\nYou can upload those PDFs
    to your own thread and notify us once they're up there.\r\n\r\n\r\nSorry for jacking
    your thread, Guifa."
  created: '2008-09-10 08:19:37'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Haha no problem.  I just made a sticky on my computer to make sure to hijack
    the Agamemnon v42 Georgian Arabic Hebrew thread with the technical details of
    A4 layouts ;-)\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos
    damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-09-10 08:27:09'
- author:
    name: sasapetrova
    picture: 115714
  body: Thaks Guifa for the image posting tips. I will apply them.
  created: '2008-09-11 07:53:37'
- author:
    name: sasapetrova
    picture: 115714
  body: Guifa hi, I have just posted the AlternateDesignOfGreekCharacters.pdf that
    I promised at Semele (previously known as Thetis). I belive that you will find
    it of some interest to you in respect to designing Greek characters.
  created: '2008-09-12 10:19:21'
- author:
    name: sasapetrova
    picture: 115714
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Web_AlternateOldStyle_kappa_6462.gif]\r\n\r\nGuifa
    hi, just now I found time to pay due attention to the design morphology of the
    Corruna kappa and alternate kappa as I was away for the weekend. \r\n\r\nInitially
    I found and Old Style Greek typeface by Compugraphic called Aztec. I am attaching
    a JPG with the entire alphabet.\r\n\r\nThen, replying to your question \u2018Would
    it be best to raise or lower the kappa\u2019s bottom stem\u2019s connection point
    (eg, make it much more like a K shape or more like my alternate kappa with the
    \u0418 shape?\u2019 I tried out some alternate designs and I am attaching them
    as well, in case they can be of any use to you.\r\n\r\nIn the last line these
    three characters are actually another way that kappa used to designed, it wasn\u2019t
    used much and yet even nowadays it is found often in contemporary Greek handwriting.\r\n\r\nBy
    the way I just uploaded SemeleItalic to my \u2018Semele\u2019 thread at the critique
    forum and I am quite eager to hear your views about it\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Web_AztecOldSryleGreekCompu_5812.gif]"
  created: '2008-09-16 15:56:21'
- author:
    name: sasapetrova
    picture: 115714
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AlternateOldStyle_nu72_3923.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nHey
    godfather of my Semele, I just uploaded a Semele(Thetis) Italic text sample (just
    like you suggested) to my \u2018Semele\u2019 thread at the critique forum and
    I am would love to hear ideas about it.\r\n\r\nAs I have written before, the Corrina
    nu could be confused with the Corrina upsilon due to its morphological similarities
    with nu.\r\nSo, I am posting now 5 alternate nu\u2019s in case they can be of
    any use.\r\n\r\nAlso, could you please upload a PDF file with all the archaic
    Greek letterforms so that I can study them?\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-19 08:33:46'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "I saw your Semele text sample.  It's wonderful.  I could completely see an
    art history book being set in it.  I do have some more detailed comments coming
    soon.\r\n\r\nI've had to take a break from font working to finish up my thesis
    (non-font related) so I'll be out of font work for a few days :(  But I'll try
    to post the progress I've made on the greek soon.  \r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es
    una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB.
    (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-09-19 10:20:50'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Okay, new update and a big one at that.  David, how do the updated archaic
    characters look?  Natasa, FontForge screwed up exporting the lowercase upsilon,
    but I've kept it the same and instead edited the nu, does it look a bit better?
    \ same for the ka.  I wonder if I'm still a bit reluctant to change it too far.
    \ Feel free to rip it apart :)\r\n\r\nThe new sample has a side-by-side polytonic
    greek and english of a random document i pulled from Perseus.  I like the way
    the two go together but again, comments are alwys welcome.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro
    es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB.
    (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-10-16 02:14:46'
- author:
    name: sasapetrova
    picture: 115714
  body: "\r\nHi Guifa, long time no see, great that you are back here again. So, you
    are using FontForge? I thought that you would be using FontLab instead. \r\n\r\nThe
    \u2018nu\u2019 looks much better now and it differs from \u2018upsilon\u2019.
    The kappa is very distinctive and looks quite novel in design\r\n\r\nRipping apart
    your typeface isn\u2019t my style. Nymus wrote something for all those designing
    Oldstyle Greek typefaces and I will quote it verbatim as it is somewhat relevant.\r\n\r\nHe
    wrote: \u2018I have found out that the only Greek typefaces that are universally
    accepted and admired are all those that are digitized from hot metal types designed
    by great masters such as Bodoni, Baskerville and others... All those typefaces
    have certain of their letterform characteristics (hooks, blobs etc) enlarged in
    ways similar to the enlargement of facial characteristics in caricatures, this
    keeps the individual style of the typeface quite strong even at small point sizes,
    this is very important...\u2019\r\n\r\nPersonally I would add another point: The
    morphology of any novel designs of Oldstyle Greek characters should not only follow
    their respective and traditional Greek calligraphic forms (see Vergikios manuscripts
    of the Grecs du Roi) but they must also be different in concept and look than
    all the pre-existing Oldstyle Greek typefaces. For example TimesTen differs in
    quite a number of characters from TimesNewRoman and Porson, Minion Pro differs
    almost totally from Monotype\u2019s Greek Upright 90.\r\n\r\nNow there are still
    a few of your Greek letterforms that may be enhanced a little more:\r\n\r\nLOWER
    CASE\r\n\r\nlambda:\r\n\r\nthe ascender is too high and the letterform looks a
    bit like a stork, what could be done is to cheat a little and smoothen the left
    hand joint at the x-height. This is something that happens also with typefaces
    like Future that have quite small x-height in relation to the ascender height
    (in delta for instance) and in that case adjustments like the one that I am suggesting
    are made.\r\n\r\nchi:\r\n\r\nit is extremely beautiful, quite admirable.\r\n\r\nomega:\r\n\r\nthe
    endings of the two horns should be moved 20 em upwards, and the blob in the middle
    20 em downwards and it should be thickened a little also.\r\n\r\npi:\r\n\r\nThe
    upper horizontal stroke it would be better to be moved 20 \u2013 30 em to the
    right for more balance.\r\n\r\nCAPITALS\r\n\r\nI noticed that some of your capitals
    are asymmetrical (Theta, Omicron, Tau, Phi, Psi and Omega) obviously it must have
    been done on purpose, and yet it might be better to try designing them symmetrical
    as well and see how it goes.\r\n\r\nAlso in Kappa and Upsilon the joints in the
    middle are rather too low, maybe raising them higher it would look better.\r\n\r\nEpsilon:\r\n\r\nThe
    middle bar is much thicker than the other two, it should have the same stroke
    thickness and its length increased by 30 \u2013 40 em at least.\r\n\r\nSigma:\r\n\r\nIts
    forms don\u2019t balance well, some readjustments should be made.\r\n\r\nThe widths
    of Alpha, Delta, Eta, Lambda and Pi should be readjusted to bypass certain tical
    illusions, for instance as Alpha, Delta and Lambda are made from the same mold
    so to say they end up looking dissimilar width-wise. Therefore the following alterations
    should be made to their width:\r\n\r\nWidth_of_Delta = Width_of_Alpha minus 10
    em\r\nWidth_of_Lambda = Width_of_Alpha minus 10 \u2013 20 em\r\n\r\nSimilarly:\r\n\r\nWidth_of_Pi
    = Width_of_Eta minus 10 \u2013 20 em\r\n\r\nFor all the above I am uploading for
    you an image file with all the above suggestions.\r\n\r\nBy the way I have also
    uploaded SemeleArchaicGreekLetters15N.pdf which might be of some interest to you
    as it contains all the Greek Archaic letterforms.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CR18_72_4359.jpg]"
  created: '2008-10-18 11:28:54'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "Definitely much improved, Matthew. It's hard to know what to do with some
    of the new characters, and I think your solutions are generally fairly sensible.
    The lowercase archaic sampi might benefit from having the top arched instead of
    flat like a tall tau: there's an uncial example at [[http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Image:Grec_oncial_sampi.png]]
    - you would want more curvature than that to fit with the style of your lowercase,
    obviously.\r\n\r\nThe lowercase modern koppa and sampi are characters that are
    actually used, so they matter in a way that many of the Page 2 characters don't.
    They both look kind of squashed to me. To show you what I mean, I've used Photoshop
    to put them into their use context, so you can see how they look when juxtaposed
    with the other letters. The two numbers here are 596 using koppa and 1940 using
    sampi:\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/coruna-596_4680.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/corunna-1940_6626.jpg]\r\n\r\n(edited
    to add:) I realize you've done the first and second pages at different sizes,
    so the letters don't really go together anyway, but I think you can still see
    what I mean about not being wide enough."
  created: '2008-10-19 00:53:20'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "I finally found the time to do it a bit better - I scaled the glyphs so they're
    all at roughly the same size, so it now looks less bizarre. I also tried to get
    the keraiai placed more accurately.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/corunna-numerals_5554.jpg]"
  created: '2008-10-20 13:32:33'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "So how does the bold italic look?  The italic is pretty much set like this
    but the bold I really would like some comments on.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es
    una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB.
    (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-12-18 21:06:32'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: One thing that really sticks out for me (being a linguist) is the a in the
    italic, which looks like the symbol we use for schwa (a reduced vowel).
  created: '2008-12-19 14:11:57'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Since I also work with linguistics, I recognize the potential confusion.
    \ But I have two seperate forms, one a bit smoother but potential more confusion
    and another that's got a hard straight bar that makes it quite clear which is
    which.\r\n\r\nBasically the idea will be for linguistics to use the a as you see
    here, the single bowl a, and the sharpened shchwa.  For natural languages that
    use the schwa, the smoother form can be used against the single bowl a.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-12-22 16:18:03'
date: '2008-09-01 19:56:50'
title: "Coru\xF1a (now with italic and weights)"

---
