---
author:
  name: Si_Daniels
  picture: 110446
body: "When I talk to type designers and foundry representatives about issues related
  to Web fonts they often state that they feel as if they don't have a voice that's
  heard by standards bodies and browser makers.\r\n\r\nTo address this issue I've
  set up a conference call with Bert Bos (W3C staff contact for the CSS working group)
  and his colleagues from W3C. Bert wants to hear directly from people making fonts
  about issues related to fonts and the Web, font-linking (as recently implemented
  in Safari) and efforts to standardize the Embedded OpenType (EOT) format.  \r\n\r\nThe
  call will take place on Wednesday September 3rd at 8am Seattle time, that's 11am
  east-coast, 4pm in the UK and 5pm in mainland Europe. \r\n\r\nIf you're a type designer
  or foundry rep and would like to be on the call please send me a mail and I'll send
  local call in numbers. If the number of participants is high, or the time inconvenient,
  we'll set up a second call at a later date. \r\n\t\r\nIn other news, providing he
  can get his visa, Bert will be joining the Web fonts panel at ATypI St Petersburg
  next month, and will be able to chat with type designers in person about these issues.
  \r\n\r\nCheers, Si \r\n\r\n(cross-posted to ATypI list)"
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thank you Simon.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-01 18:09:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Si!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-09-01 20:52:36'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'We had the first call this morning and I think it was quite productive. Planning
    to have a second call - let me know if you''re interested in joining. '
  created: '2008-09-04 01:47:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The timing last time wasn't good for me.\r\nDon't mind me too much, but next
    time if\r\nthe timing is good I'll definitely join in.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-04 02:35:03'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Was thinking maybe 8am West coast time (to facilitate Europe) on Monday the
    15th. Does that work for you? If not please let me know here or off-list what
    times might work.
  created: '2008-09-04 05:46:27'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Last call for participants! \r\n\r\nToo late, too late will be the cry when
    fonts on the web have passed you by."
  created: '2008-09-14 05:09:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I'm still having difficulty wrapping my head around this.\r\nMaybe I will
    understand it better after the ATypI panel discussion."
  created: '2008-09-14 05:34:53'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "It sounds like a group conference via a group telephone call arrangement
    of some kind. Looks like I got here a bit late, but thanks for posting hte info
    anyway Sii. It's just good to know W3C is interested in hearing from fontmakers
    directly. I mean, it's an encouraging development.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-09-15 15:28:45'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Yep, sorry you weren't able to make it. Notes from the calls should be posted
    shortly.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2008-09-15 17:52:42'
- author:
    name: Ivo
    picture: 128123
  body: Thank you for organizing the phone conference, Simon.
  created: '2008-09-15 18:21:46'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "I have to post an extra thank you to Sii because he is one of the type biz's
    leading technical people and he has done a flawless job of keeping us informed
    and saddled up on the whole web fonts issue. You can trust this man, and Thomas
    Phinney too, to get the facts right and coordinate the interests of all players
    with maximum relevance and diplomacy.\r\n\r\nLooks like I was right about W3C
    and Jim Puckett was a little too skeptical of their role. Perhaps somebody at
    W3C read one of the recent threads we had here and took the hint. However it transpired,
    thanks, guys. The best way to move forward on web fonts is together.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2008-09-16 00:41:18'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: 'Glad to hear that the W3C is a little less out there than I suspected. '
  created: '2008-09-16 01:26:37'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "good news.\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul
    Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic Design Melbourne</a>\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-16 02:22:48'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"When I talk to type designers and foundry representatives about issues
    related to Web fonts...\"\r\n\r\nYou keep trotting this out, as you did in the
    conference call, without mentioning names.\r\nSupply me with a list of the type
    designers and foundry representatives who support EOT and have significant IP
    at risk.\r\nI can fix it. ;-)\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-17 12:35:28'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\"When I talk to type designers and foundry representatives about issues
    related to Web fonts <EM>they often state that they feel as if they don\u2019t
    have a voice that\u2019s heard by standards bodies and browser makers.</EM>\"\r\n\r\nA
    specific example would be Nick Shinn here on Typophile, who felt that the W3C
    would not listen to type designers concerns. \r\n\r\n>Supply me with a list of
    the type designers and foundry representatives who support EOT and have significant
    IP at risk.  \r\n\r\nI can't speak for type designers or foundries other than
    Microsoft, and I've actually stated publically that few currently support EOT
    in their EULAs. However, I can state with confidence that the number of font vendors
    considering supporting EOT is infinitely larger than those considering the alternative. "
  created: '2008-09-17 13:04:58'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Here's the thread in question... \r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/46896
    \r\n\r\n...2nd post down. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2008-09-17 13:39:33'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...Nick Shinn here on Typophile, who felt that the W3C would not listen
    to type designers concerns.\"\r\nClearly, I would not listen to Nick on this topic
    either, sorry. Who else?\r\n\r\n\"I can state with confidence that the number
    of font vendors considering supporting EOT is infinitely larger than those considering
    the alternative.\"\r\nMaybe, we have different definitions of infinity. Font vendors
    considering supporting EOT <em> are dealing with the 'alternative'</em> that's
    been adopted by the w3c, consideration is/was not a consideration.  Should we
    deal with EOT too? with users having both? and with neither? and 'explain' it
    all to font designers, lawyers, licensees, and web designers? How? EOT is not
    a new font format, and since it is the most illegal and dangerous of the options,
    I cannot support the proposed version. \r\n\r\n\"We analyzed 30+ EULAs and none
    allowed posting to Web sites.\"\r\nSurprise! For an active vendor in this area
    to allow posting to Web sites, would require a linking situation with either accountability,
    or other protection, <em> and then</em> a EULA can be written. \r\n\r\n<strong>In
    the mean time, all in favor of  Microsoft's call to join 'Web Font Linking Wars',
    please step forward. </strong>\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-17 16:02:36'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Who else?\r\n\r\nDezcom. I think he made similar observations re the lack
    of a voice.\r\n\r\n>I cannot support the proposed version. \r\n\r\nAnd that's
    fine. There's nothing wrong with sitting on the sidelines. As you know, because
    you were on the call (for some reason you failed to mention your \"illegal and
    dangerous\" objections???) that we see EOT, as currently spec'd, as a \"Version
    1\" technology, and we don't expect it to be embraced by every font vendor (heck,
    some don't even allow PDF of SWF embedding!). But it's a starting point that can
    be built upon by the community (ie. the font community) and not a bunch of browser
    makers who don't care about people who make fonts. \r\n\r\nBut theoretically as
    EOT is bad and font linking, as currently implemented, is bad. What's your alternative?
    \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-17 18:54:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Dezcom. I think he made similar observations re the lack of a voice.\"\r\n\r\nSi,
    my comments were directed to the end of having all the stakeholders get a voice
    before something is done we may all regret. My problem is that I am not knowledgeable
    enough to speak for anyone other than to say that those who know more about the
    technology and the potential ramifications in the type community should be speaking
    up. I am concerned about intellectual property rights of all designers and foundries
    and the potential for easily stealing type. More than that--I think it is another
    way to convince the public that type is free because it can distributed free from
    a web browser so why should they have to pay for it for print use..\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-09-17 20:13:13'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Were the notes from the call posted to the ATypI list and not Typophile?
  created: '2008-09-17 22:04:26'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: So far the notes (prepared by Bert) have been passed to the people invovled
    in the conference calls. They need to be updated  based on the second call. Then
    if there are no corrections from the participants they'll be posted to the W3C
    site.
  created: '2008-09-18 04:31:54'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Simon: \"There\u2019s nothing wrong with sitting on the sidelines.\"\r\nI'm
    a player, coach, and owner and so I know when it is half time. \r\nYou must, by
    the furiousness of your horn-blowing, be with the marching band. \r\n\r\n\"...(for
    some reason you failed to mention your \u201Cillegal and dangerous\u201D objections???)\"\r\nI
    did no such thing. Community-building, is a good reason. You were the one who
    said there are hundreds of EOTs out there we don't know about. I shut up for your
    sakes in front of your guests. I'll be no more polite in the future, if you insist.\r\n\r\n\"...that
    we see EOT, as currently spec\u2019d  as a \u201CVersion 1\u201D technology,...\"\r\nThe
    spec itself says version 3.3 \u2014 I wish it was 1.0, and start it right. How
    far off is it? How can I take the notion of a transportable font format with panose
    values in it seriously, when bull boobs keep coming to mind?\r\n\r\n\"But it\u2019s
    a starting point that can be built upon by the community (ie. the font community)
    and not a bunch of browser makers who don\u2019t care about people who make fonts.\"\r\nOh
    those evil browser makers. I'm not saying patriotism is the last refuge to which
    a scoundrel clings, oops, I guess I am. Also, remember the E in EOT, it is a problem.
    There is no \"Embedding\" in EOT, and there are no \"Linking Bits\" in the open
    font format \u2014 cart (linking), follows horse (format), eula follows cart.
    \ We could call it LOT...\r\n\r\n\"But theoretically as EOT is bad and font linking,
    as currently implemented, is bad.\" \r\nThe Embeddable OpenType proposal is currently
    worse, for several reasons and I said so.  Shooting at the messenger is not community
    building. Font linking, as currently implemented, is honest, leaving the fonts
    in their native format, where one can always find them, and there is more. \r\n\r\n\"What\u2019s
    your alternative?\"\r\nMy alternative is my business to propose in the right places
    at the right times to the right people, which here, now, and you is/are not.\r\n\r\nBy
    the way, while you're 'over there\", understand that you are in a preview of an
    EOT-like typographically lawless society gone wild. So, see if you can find a
    local type designer who could survive a blood donation. \r\n\r\nDez: \"...before
    something is done we may all regret.\"\r\nA little late for that. \r\n\r\nSimon:
    \"They need to be updated based on the second call.\"\r\n\r\nAnd when that happens,
    I'll be ready.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-09-19 02:21:54'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I shut up for your sakes in front of your guests. \r\n\r\nYou're breaking
    my heart. The calls were set up so you, and people like you, could let the W3C
    know your position on EOT and font linking - sorry you felt you had to hold back
    because I was on the phone. :-( \r\n\r\n>I\u2019m a player, coach, and owner \r\n\r\nI
    see, you're letting the other team run up the score, so your second half comeback
    will all the more impressive. Or maybe you've placed a bet on the other side,
    just in case? \r\n\r\n>My alternative is my business to propose in the right places
    at the right times to the right people, which here, now, and you is/are not.\r\n\r\nAh,
    another secret business model, or perhaps you have a trick play. I like it. ;-)"
  created: '2008-09-19 07:10:03'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "A trick play? There are no plays at all!\r\n\r\nWhen the game is on, and
    the EOT team shows up after training for years ready to play, and the other team
    doesn't show up at all, the referees are obligated to call a forfeit. Game over.
    See you next year."
  created: '2008-09-19 14:01:48'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>When the game is on, and the EOT team shows up after training for years
    ready to play, and the other team doesn\u2019t show up at all, the referees are
    obligated to call a forfeit.</cite>\r\n\r\nNo, the EOT team will be busy screwing
    around in the locker room with DRM methods. But it won\u2019t matter because the
    pirates all have the complete fonts anyway. And then the fans will go ape when
    a new team shows up with a bunch of fonts licensed for @font-face linking."
  created: '2008-09-19 14:43:54'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>But it won\u2019t matter because the pirates all have the complete
    fonts anyway.</cite>\r\n\r\nBut the pirates were never your customers anyway.
    Hope for a major corporation to pirate your fonts, and laugh all the way to the
    bank."
  created: '2008-09-19 15:06:23'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>But the pirates were never your customers anyway.</cite>\r\n\r\nShhh!
    You\u2019ll upset people who can\u2019t stop angsting over all the sales they\u2019re
    losing to people who don\u2019t pay for fonts to begin with. "
  created: '2008-09-19 15:45:17'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Simon: >You\u2019re breaking my heart. \r\nI'll send a surgeon! He'll be
    in St. Pete by Sunday, so set some time aside for a... Dr. Aorta D. Stitcher.\r\nI
    didn't only feel like I should hold back, but also that the EOT fans were dominant
    in the direction you wanted the conversation to be structured. W3C talks, then
    each foundry talks, you and Thomas get to talk whenever you want. The coughing,
    sneezing, paper shuffle and echoing feedback hurts all of our ears, and then its
    over, we can get back to making money by our own herculean efforts and you all
    can go back to napping while you vest, having been paid to direct the conversation,
    while we were spending money to debunk. \r\n\r\n>Or maybe you\u2019ve placed a
    bet on the other side, just in case?\r\nThere is no other side Mr. I. M. Community
    Builder, just us. One big happy community o type designers, OS vendors, standard
    makers, application folk, and web designing angels, all trying our hardest to
    make type and typography something that the big happy community of users... lawyers,
    teachers, students, .com millionaires, starving artists, priests, poets and prostitutes,
    farmers, coal miners, flight engineers, toad collectors, landscape activists,
    firemen, police officers, politicians, actors, software criminals, musicians,
    talk show hosts, translators, transporters, flight attendants, martial arts instructors,
    butchers, bakers and candlestick makers, beauty queen candidates, and project
    coordinators... I say, you didn't answer any of my questions, Simon. Who's the
    secretive one again, I forget?\r\n\r\nBS>When [] the EOT team shows up [] ready
    to play, and the other team doesn\u2019t show up at all, the referees are obligated
    to call a forfeit. Game over. \r\nBS, we all are showing up! Nearly all of us
    are saying we don't think this is well planned, from the independent font industries
    point of view. EOT was developed 10 years ago for something else, not this. I
    add, that as its heading, it reeeallllly sucks for users, and web designers. \r\n\r\nAnd,
    what referees? The W3C has adopted @fontface. The Microsoft Windows Internet Explorer
    group, alone amongst all of the browser makers, has stated they \"Will not support
    @fontface, ever!\" The W3C cannot withdraw @fontface can they? The Internet Explorer
    team is trying desperately to 'protect the font industry' and the W3C, (those
    allegedly fonthirsty bastards), are trying to kill us... I don't think so. I made
    the suggestion, MS and W3C settle their issues, AND THEN, the font industry can
    cohesively, (or not), lobby for what's needed among the surviving technological
    solution(s).  Ideally, this would be done after the font format...\r\nBut, it
    is either @FF alone, or both. EOT alone is not an option, for either, or any community.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-09-19 16:04:05'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "EOT's downfall will likely be the want for DRM capabilities. That simply
    won't survive very long in the wild.\r\n\r\nIt's great that the teams are talking,
    though. W3C is no different than any open political system...those who vote, get
    the say."
  created: '2008-09-19 16:09:13'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "David,\r\n\r\n>I didn\u2019t only feel like I should hold back, but also
    that the EOT fans were dominant in the direction you wanted the conversation to
    be structured. \r\n\r\n>The Internet Explorer team is trying desperately to \u2019protect
    the font industry\u2019 and the W3C, (those allegedly fonthirsty bastards), are
    trying to kill us... I don\u2019t think so\r\n\r\nYour theories, as always are
    immensely interesting and entertaining. But there's something missing from this
    latest conspiracy theory. What's IE's motivation for not supporting font linking,
    if it's not to support the interests and wishes of type designers and vendors?
    \r\n\r\nWe're not winning any friends in the standards or web design world for
    taking this stand. It would certainly make life so much easier for everyone if
    the font design community would embrace font linking, change their licensing models
    and give us the green light to support it. Any chance that will happen? \"I don't
    think so.\"  \r\n\r\n>and you all can go back to napping while you vest, having
    been paid to direct the conversation, \r\n\r\nI'm not on the clock at 8am. I called
    in from home.\r\n\r\n>while we were spending money to debunk. \r\n\r\nI sent you
    an 800 number? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-20 07:36:11'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Simon: We\u2019re not winning any friends in the standards or web design
    world for taking this stand. \r\n\r\nAnd I appreciate the stand your company has
    taken. My deep and sincere apologies for any and all misguided slime, hot headedness,
    or other etiquette-busting behavior I've displayed on this topic over the past
    few weeks. I only wish I'd composed some of it in 6 pt. Algerian, Playbill, something
    equally as daft, or not at all. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-20 13:04:39'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Roger Black gave some of the details in his talk today...\r\n\r\n1. Large
    corporate customer commissions custom type, and is willing to post it on a web
    server, and allow anyone access to it.\r\n\r\n2. Fonts are only linked to pages
    behind a registration barrier - not accessible to unregistered users.\r\n\r\n3.
    EOT is also posted for IE users.\r\n\r\n4. Any unauthorized usage of the font
    (ie print, reposting on other sites) should be easy to spot, and is enforced in
    the traditional way (invoices and cease & desists)\r\n\r\nI think this is basically
    what you suggested back at TypeCon Boston. And it might work. It's certainly worth
    a try. Best of luck. \r\n\r\nI also suggested to Bert Bos that he talk to you
    directly, so as to avoid any Si bias. \r\n\r\nChears!\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-20 15:02:03'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "sii -- <cite>What's IE's motivation for not supporting font linking, if it\u2019s
    not to support the interests and wishes of type designers and vendors?</cite>\r\n\r\nGood
    or bad intentions aside, what matters is the effect that something -- an additional
    font format -- has or may have.\r\nAn EOT font, according to current specs, is
    a wrapper around a 'normal' OT font. It may or may not be subsetted. May or may
    not be compressed. DRM is not touched in the specs. This means, the minimum EOT
    font <em>is</em> an OT font.\r\n<a href=\"http://www.w3.org/Submission/EOT/\"
    target=\"_blank\">EOT specs</a> say that <cite>3) User Agents may download, extract
    and temporarily install fonts of the EOT file suffix that are included in the
    @font-face definition of a CSS style sheet.</cite> Which I assume is about the
    same behavior as with 'normal' OT or TT fonts.\r\nGiven the lack of functional
    differences between OT and EOT, I miss the basis for IE's movitation to allow
    <a href=\"http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms530757.aspx\" target=\"_blank\">only
    EOT</a> for use with @font-face -- as opposed to support it as an additional font
    format.\r\n\r\n[Caveat: Web design and related things are not my business.]"
  created: '2008-09-20 15:05:07'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\r\nMaybe going a bit off-topic, wish you were here at ATypI. :-)\r\n\r\nNot
    supporting font linking, and submitting EOT spec for possible standardization
    are not the same thing. \r\n\r\nBut essentially yes they use the same mechanism
    and work in the same way - only difference (in the specific case you mention)
    is that the font posted on the server won't work as a desktop font - can't be
    dragged and dropped into the fonts folder. I would expect commercial font licenses
    would also require URL binding be used."
  created: '2008-09-20 15:16:30'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Indeed different issues but related since an EOT-only approach of IE \"encourages\"
    production of EOT fonts while for other browsers \"normal\" OT fonts may do.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    neither not-a-desktop-font nor URL-binding would require EOT -- both are mere
    \"user agent\" behavior. (An additional/extended OT table for URL-binding?)\r\n\r\nI
    am attending remotely, thanks to your flickr photos.  :)  It looks like a really
    nice location and rooms."
  created: '2008-09-20 17:15:58'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Simon, \r\n\r\nKinda makes one wish you had EOT right here! right now! You
    might set:\r\n\"1. Large corporate customer commissions custom type, and is willing
    to post it on a web server, and allow anyone access to it.\"\r\n...in an elephantine
    face until you'd want to set \"allow anyone access to it\", in something <em><strong>really
    bold!</em></strong>\r\nThen, \r\n\"2. Fonts are only linked to pages behind a
    registration barrier - not accessible to unregistered users.\"\r\n...could be
    set in 2 point Cascade. ;-)\r\n\r\nI'm also curious as to what, or who you think
    is gonna make a successful \"commercial font license\"? \r\nI can see our model,
    (models actually as the one you are quoting is but one), and Ray Larabie's model
    quit clearly. . .\r\n\r\nI'm also curious as to who wrote \"What's wrong with
    FONT FACE\" on your web site: (http://www.microsoft.com/typography/web/designer/face7.htm)\r\nE.G.
    Isn't \"Users can't override fonts specified using FONT FACE\" currently one of
    the major advantages web designers see in imaged type? and isn't it also currently
    one of the major advantages seen by the publications using the Microsoft Reader
    technology? And why would \"Control over font style and weight is difficult\"
    matter when the exact style and weight are being linked to? 'm afraid, once I
    eliminate the wrong wrongs from this page, it's quite empty. :-)\r\n\r\nk.l.,
    \r\n\r\nI hope everyone becomes as hip to this as you! :-)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-09-21 12:56:40'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I don't think focusing on the packaging of fonts for the web, i.e. the delivery
    format (.ttf or .eot), makes much sense. A font, in whatever format, is going
    to be served data, so the focus should be on server models, i.e. on where the
    fonts are stored, how they are published, how they are accessed, and how money
    changes hands. We already have well-established models for storing data and serving
    it in bits and bytes over the web, and for charging money based on traffic: this
    is how ISPs make money.\r\n\r\nDuring the webfont panel discussion at TypeCon,
    Erik van Blokland described a relationship between font foundries, web developers/publishers,
    and people looking at websites. The missing element from this description is the
    server, which necessarily sits between the people publishing websites and the
    people looking at websites. Nadine Chahine pointed this out after the panel discussion,
    and got me thinking that the server -- as a machine handling font data and as
    the company providing this service -- could also sit between the font foundry
    and the web publisher.\r\n\r\nSo here's a model for webfonts, which I'll call
    the 'Font Server' model.\r\n\r\nThe Foo Font Foundry has created a new typeface
    that they believe will be popular with web developers. They sign up with the Font
    Server company, perhaps paying some initial fee. They legally affirm their intellectual
    property rights re. the font. They upload the font to the Font Server, and create
    publicity material about the font on their own website, perhaps in a marketing
    section of the Font Server website, print media and however else they decide to
    advertise the availability of the font.\r\n\r\nThe Websites-R-Us development company
    has been hired by the Generic Client Company to create a website promoting their
    splendid, environmentally-friendly products. The designer at Websites-R-Us sees
    the new Foo Font Foundry typeface advertised or listed in the new releases on
    the Font Server site. She selects the font for use on the GCC website, and persuades
    the client to pay for font serving. Websites-R-Us or GCC provide the Font Server
    company with URLs to which they wish the font to be served, the Font Server company
    provides Websites-R-Us with a font data link for the specified font(s). The font
    data link might be personalised for Websites-R-Us or GCC, so that the link only
    works for the specified URLs. GCC is charged monthly for font data traffic associated
    with their specified URLs. The Font Server company collects the money from GCC
    and pays a percentage to the Foo Font Foundry.\r\n\r\nIt is easy to see how this
    model adapts also to things like custom corporate fonts, which could be served
    by the Font Server at discounted rates -- in lieu of having anyone to whom to
    pay royalties --, served only to the company's registered URLs and not made available
    to other customers.\r\n\r\nAs with other data storage and serving, competition
    is possible in e.g. speed and reliability of service as well as percentage rates
    paid to foundries.\r\n\r\nThe format of the served font data is not really important,
    but there are a variety of options. The served font data could be watermarked
    and linked to the registered URLs. It could be subset'd on-the-fly. Indeed, the
    format and level of data protection offered could be another area of competition
    between font server companies hoping to attract font foundries with the latest
    popular designs.\r\n\r\n[Thanks to Nadine Chahine for getting these thoughts started
    in my head.]"
  created: '2008-09-21 18:22:53'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: "My apologies for jumping into this with what may prove to be a na\xEFve or
    redundant (or both) proposal... I've been out of this game (not by choice) for
    at least three years now.\r\n\r\n\"The Web\" is generally screen-based. The W3C
    designing yet another font format without adding any DRM protections seems to
    be little more than Stallman-izing some fairly open, accessible, well-documented
    font formats. I find the idea of a W3C font format rather presumptuous.\r\n\r\nRemoving
    outlines and substituting only bitmaps is a very old and very serviceable idea
    for foundries looking to preserve thes security of their outlines. There are embedded
    bitmap facilities in the Opentype spec itself, as I recall. Font-building tools
    and font-rendering libraries (Windows, MacOS, Firefox Gecko engine, Safari/Webkit/Chrome
    Quicktime font renderer) should flesh out support for these existing parts of
    the OpenType spec, if it's not fully working already, and users should be served
    the bitmap fonts instead of the outline fonts. OS font renderers should be completed
    to transparently display these bitmap fonts as if they were first-class outline
    fonts, and all the OpenType feature facilities and functions available to OpenType
    outline fonts could be used in these fonts as well."
  created: '2008-09-22 00:21:20'
- author:
    name: boardman
    picture: 110337
  body: 'I think this is a very cogent model for changing the landscape of font usage
    on the Web. In some ways, it''s like the quickly growing Software as a Service
    or Web application model. It would probably have to be simplified somewhat as
    a font being displayed to three people or three million people is still being
    used. As well, one, trustworthy company would need to ensure that the "server"
    (or more accurately, perhaps, the database) is available and scalable. The reality
    is that type designers need to get paid for their work and, without a clear and
    accountable service model that serves typefaces, typography on the Web will be
    exactly where we are now: limited and lacking, but not at all bad.'
  created: '2008-09-22 00:29:01'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>As well, one, trustworthy company would need to ensure that the \u201Cserver\u201D
    (or more accurately, perhaps, the database) is available and scalable.</em>\r\n\r\nWell,
    I was going to call it the 'Google Font Server' model. :)\r\n\r\nBut I'm not sure
    that it does need to be 'one, trustworthy company'; indeed, one of the arguments
    against monopolies is that they tend towards untrustworthiness, since they do
    not need to actively build trust in order to retain customers. In this regard,
    too, I think the basic ISP model is a good one: customers, in this case the font
    foundries, shop around for people who provide good rates, reliable service, attractive
    contract terms, etc.\r\n\r\n\r\nPS. During the TypeCon panel discussion, someone
    in the audience asked who was going to police font use on the web, and Erik van
    Blokland said something along the lines of 'Well, Google of course, because they're
    the people who are looking at it'.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-22 05:44:42'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Hi from Franky, the airport not the font.\r\n\r\nJohn, your ideas are interesting
    - and this is exactly the kind of thing that can be developed as extensions on
    the working group, if and when it gets set up.\r\n\r\n> I\u2019m also curious
    as to who wrote \u201CWhat\u2019s wrong with FONT FACE\u201D on your web site:
    \r\n\r\nThat was one of mine... \r\n\r\n\"this page was last updated 30 June 1997\"
    ;-)\r\n\r\nBut do we really want to start digging up historical articles from
    the Web?\r\n\r\nYou do understand that FONT FACE (the proprietary font tag MS
    added to IE in 1995) is different from the @FONT FACE font linking solution? If
    not maybe Bill Hill can suggest some HTML and CSS books for you. ;-)\r\n\r\nCheers!!!
    \r\n\r\nSi \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-22 08:22:36'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I can see our model, (models actually as the one you are quoting is but
    one), and Ray Larabie\u2019s model quit clearly. . \r\n\r\nAlthough Ray is the
    poster child for this (his fonts are posted). Last time I checked Ray hadn't made
    a decision about letting his fonts be used with the web fonts scheme. Clearly
    as it stands doing so (outside of his .zip) breaks his EULA. I believe he gave
    permission to Howcome to allow a few of his fonts to be used in the demos. Just
    as he allowed Ascender to make some of his fonts available as EOTs (A good strategy
    in my opinion).\r\n\r\nSo I think you and Ralf Hermann on your own right now.
    Maybe others will join.\r\n\r\nCheers!! Si\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-22 08:28:13'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Simon: \"You do understand that FONT FACE...\"\r\nCute trap, what a gaffe.
    First Embedding that isn't, now this. I thought you just forgot the @ and I never
    ever get the bottom of these pages. Or, maybe the band width required to make
    a font that'll work as well as Franky, and the band width required to read through
    200 pages of documentation for the accurate and relevant pages on this topic does
    not exist. Or maybe you should take out the trash more often.\r\n\r\nAnd let's
    not forget, this opinion-gathering effort may be running along to help protect
    font founders from the world, or... to protect the world from font founders. So
    no matter how snide you might go off on Bill Hill, it hard to quit easily. :)\r\n\r\nJohn:
    3rd party web servers are slippery enough already about responsibility for their
    content. And, you make it sound like average users are inclined to see fonts as
    IP. So, while I fully appreciate your excellent take on a \"best case scenario\",
    I believe strongly that we have to take into account the opposite. \r\n\r\nFocusing
    on the packaging, (and I might add, authoring tools), is clearly part of a sensible
    approach, especially if the packaging is dynamic, and the original package is
    where the legal protection is. Also, many linking models adapt to custom corporate
    fonts, with their inherent legal/economic exposure, those customers are inclined
    to see fonts quite differently than users like yours. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-22 13:52:54'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Has much thought gone into the perceived customers of said technology? Granted,
    this is a group of type designers, so it only makes sense that the conversation
    revolve around that side, but it seems that it all may be moot if more consideration
    isn't put towards who this technology is supposedly going to be marketed to.\r\n\r\nIt
    sounds like the ultimate aim is to make sure that whatever technology is chosen,
    that is posses the necessary auditing and DRM protections that the industry desires.
    Ignoring the fact that that is probably a futile endeavor, it does make me wonder
    who, then, is going to be interesting in purchasing this.\r\n\r\nLike the commercial
    font industry now, I assume the larger market would be commercial advertising,
    marketing and web design firms accommodating larger brand names with established
    brand identities and guidelines. Alas, the more a product/service veers towards
    that kind of implementation, the more it seems they've already circumvented the
    issue by creating flash-laden sites, or image-bloated sites. Yea, they suck at
    times, but that hasn't really stopped them from continuing down that path, so
    one has to assume that they work to some extent.\r\n\r\nAs a web designer/developer
    with background in graphic design, even I don't have that much interest in any
    web font technology. We've gotten along fine without it in the past 10 years and
    I'm not so sure that there's a strong of a want as we may think there is.\r\n\r\nGiven
    the complexities of just figuring out if one can embed fonts in a PDF or not is
    enough for a lot of folks to either a) not care about the EULA or b) not care
    about using any typeface not installed on the system.\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-22 15:04:21'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...creating flash-laden sites, or image-bloated sites. Yea, they suck at
    times,..\"\r\n\r\nYes they do. In fact this morning I was thinking about it, and
    searched google for \"why flash sucks\" to get a better handle on the broken browser
    UI issues, like the \"back\" button, or the scroll arrows being disabled. How
    much is Flash, how much is the designer, and how much is me? ;)\r\n\r\nThis site
    is not as bad as some, but it's still more than a little annoying that the arrow
    keys sometimes work and sometimes don't and the back button does work while you
    are writing, without asking if you want to lose it.  \r\n\r\nMuch of it boils
    down to the w3c just not being constituted/funded in a way that allows progress
    at speeds required by the web, leaving us all at the mercy of whatever's cool
    in the here and now of web development, or whatever is on the \"big guy's\" agendas.\r\n\r\n\"...I
    don\u2019t have that much interest in any web font technology\"\r\nThis seems
    to be a dominant opinion of one of our major constituencies. What would change
    that for you?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-09-22 15:38:36'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>...I don\u2019t have that much interest in any web font technology</cite>\r\n\r\nMaybe
    you don\u2019t, but designers who bleed clients for $250,000 identities don\u2019t
    like explaining to clients why they can\u2019t use the corporate fonts on the
    corporate web site. I\u2019ve got a client right now who was quite unhappy to
    see their web stuff designed using Helvetica and Georgia."
  created: '2008-09-22 16:26:31'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"What would change that for you?\"\r\n\r\nFor me, personally, ease of use
    by both the developer and the end user. No plugins. No silly EULA worries. Etc.\r\n\r\nReally,
    no different than how I shop for music. Can I download it in a standard format
    free of any proprietary strings attached? If so, great, here's my money. If not,
    eh...I'll pass.\r\n\r\nThe advantage of the web font issue, is that particular
    'worry' is really only at the level of the site designer, so that helps with the
    selling of the concept. As long as the end-users are able to use it (or not use
    it at their discretion) with no effort on their part, it'll be adopted to some
    extent. \r\n"
  created: '2008-09-22 16:36:25'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Maybe you don\u2019t, but designers who bleed clients for $250,000 identities
    don\u2019t like explaining to clients why they can\u2019t use the corporate fonts
    on the corporate web site.\"\r\n\r\nExactly! The market for this really seems
    to be rather niche. Big agencies doing big identity projects. Granted, that's
    the market with the $$$, so certainly a good one to go after.\r\n\r\nThe catch
    is that they've already found all the workarounds to accommodate that already.
    They don't use flash just because it can embed a font, so having an alternative
    font embedding technology likely won't change that much at all. \r\n\r\n(Furthermore,
    I'd argue that a wise branding agency would have already taken into consideration
    the caveats of the various mediums said branding would appear in, but I digress...)\r\n\r\nAgain,
    not to discount the whole concept/effort/direction...just that I wonder if the
    market has truly been defined yet and, if it has, if it is really that big.\r\n\r\nPure
    speculation, but it seems that the folks that would really jump on this new technology
    in a heartbeat are the same folks that the industry seems to have no use for (and
    rightfully so, it could be argued): scrapbookers, myspace teens, font 'collectors',
    that annoying secretary who has to use HTML email for all her correspondence with
    a picture of her dogs and a background image of some ugly wallpaper, etc. "
  created: '2008-09-22 16:41:28'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>No silly EULA worries. Really, no different than how I shop for music.
    Can I download it in a standard format free of any proprietary strings attached?</cite>\r\n\r\nYou
    are mixing up two very different types of use:\r\nWhen you download music against
    fee, you license it for your personal use and are not allowed to copy, hire, lend,
    perform publicly etc. Grab the next-best CD and read the EULA for yourself. Within
    this limited type of use, it's as easy with fonts as it is with music.\r\nOnce
    you intend to post these music files on a website such that visitors can listen
    to them or download them, well, you won't get away without EULA/rights worries
    and paying someone. And exactly that's what we're talking about here -- only difference
    is that our music is called fonts."
  created: '2008-09-22 18:11:54'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "kl...good points. To use your analogy note that there is still no DRM involved.
    If I want to license a Brittney Spears song, I do, and then I use it in a way
    that accommodates the agreement. The restrictions of the agreement are legal...not
    technological.\r\n\r\nI think that'd be a fine way to handle the font issue. Don't
    bother with technical protection. It's futile. Instead, make it a legal issue
    and leave it at that.\r\n\r\nAs for the EULA, I wasn't against EULAs as much as
    I was against arbitrary and inconsistent restrictions that make sorting them all
    out a pain for the end user, thereby lessening the chances of them even bothering
    with it in the first place. Agreed, licensing something for personal use is typically
    a lot easier than licensing for publishing.\r\n\r\nI'm afraid I'm veering this
    thread off course, though. So, apologies for that...back to the font developers
    and the W3C to hash things out... ;o)"
  created: '2008-09-22 18:49:11'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "In general, thanks for the comments.\r\n\r\n\"Really, no different than how
    I shop for music. Can I download it in a standard format free of any proprietary
    strings attached?\"\r\nSo I guess you don't use itunes.\r\n\r\n\"As long as the
    end-users are able to use it (or not use it at their discretion)\"\r\nSee though,
    that there are some differences between music and fonts that are practically intractable.
    Each song is a combination of sound and silence, (image and background on web
    sites) and then, a combination of instruments and volumes (fonts, images and their
    specifications), all carefully blended...You're saying, for example, that unless
    users can switch any and every vocal to Willie Nelson's voice, (or whatever the
    system default, or their own choice), your 'as long as...' is not met. Even further,
    you imply that users need to sub generic computer instruments for the ones used
    in the song. . . or else!\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-09-22 19:46:48'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "An I almost forgot:\r\n\r\n\"...designers who bleed clients for $250,000
    identities don\u2019t like explaining to clients why they can\u2019t use the corporate
    fonts on the corporate web site.\"\r\n\r\nCan you explain what the client's tech
    spec would be to make that happen?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-09-22 19:49:34'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Can you explain what the client\u2019s tech spec would be to make that
    happen?</cite>\r\n\r\nCopy set only HTML usually does the trick. Back to my current
    job\u2014it has to be done in HTML to ensure that it works right in email clients
    loaded over dialup. No flash and only one small image allowed. Being able to tack
    on a subset font would make things work a lot better visually without resorting
    to Flash or big images. Remember, not everything on the web is done for people
    living in wealthy nations who have fast connections!"
  created: '2008-09-22 20:14:59'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"So I guess you don\u2019t use itunes.\"\r\n\r\nSure, as long as it's in
    the DRM free format iTunes+.\r\n\r\nAs to your other point, if I follow it, that's
    how it is now. The web is user-controlled as much as it is designer-controlled.
    While we designers may want more and more control, our users may want the same.
    If/when font embedding becomes a more realistic option, if I, as an end user,
    can't block Comic Sans wholesale, I likely won't be too happy about it. ;o)"
  created: '2008-09-22 21:24:18'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>3rd party web servers are slippery enough already about responsibility
    for their content. And, you make it sound like average users are inclined to see
    fonts as IP. So, while I fully appreciate your excellent take on a \u201Cbest
    case scenario\u201D, I believe strongly that we have to take into account the
    opposite.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't believe the current debate about whether the data
    package is an .eot or a .ttf takes into into account and case scenario. It's an
    argument about whether you want to put the brown horse or the white horse before
    the cart.\r\n\r\nMy proposal is a model for professional web developers to be
    able to use specific typefaces and for the makers of those typefaces to be able
    to collect a fee for this use. It puts the responsibility for security and honesty
    in the hands of companies with contractual obligations to each other, rather than
    loading it onto crackable DRM technologies wrapped around vulnerable data which
    is then handed over to end users to do with as they will. Further, the Font Server
    company has as much of an interest in policing the use of the fonts as the font
    foundry: they collect money for legitimate use."
  created: '2008-09-22 23:29:43'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Sure, as long as it\u2019s in the DRM free format iTunes+.\"\r\nNo strings
    are attached there? Neither you nor James seem to be overly aware of the existing
    preconditions under which your comments, and descriptions of your lives and work
    are couched. I'll try again. \r\n\r\nIf Cosmic Sans were the entire subject of
    a web site, as an end user, going freely to said web site and then blocking Cosmic
    Sans wholesale seems blindingly stupid, don't it? And, if everything on the web
    must be designed for people living in poor nations with slow connections (hey,
    that's me!), what good is that?\r\n\r\nUsers have been enjoying periodicals, books,
    music, film, TV and radio for generations with little control, other than the
    binary use/don't-use choice and volume control where audio is involved. If a publisher
    wants to make a web site entirely and only in their own custom sights and sounds,
    only giving the user choice of text size and volume of sound, what gives the user,
    much less the 'standards-makers', the right to block that option? Surely you have
    the right, as a user, not to go to that site, but to say all web sites must be
    enabled to cascade into a formless default standard plain vanilla appearance,
    is subverting the rights of those for whom form is a basic tool of their corporate
    trade. Is it not?\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-23 00:00:20'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<a href=\"http://news.yahoo.com/s/ap/20080924/ap_on_hi_te/tec_myspace_music\">Myspace
    is now selling music through Amazon\u2019s DRM-free service</a>. If Rupert Murdoch
    doesn\u2019t think he can foist more DRM onto consumers, the font industry isn\u2019t
    going to pull it off, and is going to end up looking really, really bad for trying."
  created: '2008-09-27 00:26:32'
date: '2008-09-01 16:33:42'
node_type: forum
title: Calling all font makers - the W3C wants to hear from you

---
