---
author:
  name: blank
body: "Has anyone ever created or proposed a font format that allows metrics to vary
  with size? For example, a face might need more interletter spacing at small sizes
  and less at large sizes. So why not create a font that automatically increases or
  decreases interletter spacing by a set percentage as it changes from the default?
  Specific kerns could even be set to only activate above or below certain sizes.\r\n\r\nThoughts?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "You could include this when using the OpenType feature \"size\":\r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/typography/otspec/features_pt.htm#size\r\n\r\nBut
    I don't think it would be a good idea. The spacing isn't just based on the size
    alone. It may also be based on the reading distance, text color, background color/material
    and so on. So it is really something the user has to choose. I guess people might
    even be annoyed if the font would apply such changes automatically. "
  created: '2008-09-02 07:08:10'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "James, you must be pretty new to digital type! \r\n\r\nPrecisely what you
    describe has already been available, and been implemented, and been abandoned.
    \r\n\r\nBasically, from 1990 to 2000, Adobe had a lot of Multiple Master fonts
    with optical axes that did just that. This development was spearheaded by Sumner
    Stone. Each font with an optical axis had size variation from 6 to 72 points.
    Spacing changed according to type size. In the mid-90s, one of the PC versions
    of Microsoft Word automatically selected the right optical size to use when it
    detected a multiple master font. If I recall, much later, one of the early editions
    of InDesign could accomplish the same trick, though clumsily. Microsoft's implementation
    was invisible -- I think I must have been almost the only person outside Microsoft
    who knew this was happening, and I publicized it wherever I could, but it wasn't
    considered of overwhelming interest by anyone. \r\n\r\nQuark was on the verge
    of doing some great things with MM when Adobe pulled the plug around 2000. Nobody
    really knows why Adobe pulled the plug. We used to blame it on Microsoft, but
    I now accept Microsoft's verdict that it was Adobe, in particular Dan Mills, who
    made the decision. Dan Mills was later fired -- whether for this typographical
    treachery or for something else, I have no idea. \r\n\r\nApple had a superior
    version of the technology called Variations but if I recall correctly, none of
    the released Variations fonts (of which Matthew Carter's Skia was the most famous)
    had an optical axis. \r\n\r\nMM survives as a vital part of Acrobat and all its
    derivative products. (You will find two multiple master versions of Times and
    Helvetica -- with invisible attributes -- in every copy of Mac OS X - - they are
    supposed to work with Preview.)\r\n\r\nMM also survives as a vital part of the
    design process, thanks to the fabulous work done by Yuri Yarmola with Fontlab.
    \r\n\r\nMM optical axes had design change from 6 to 72 points. But there was never
    any reason why you couldn't leave the design the same at each end, and simply
    use the axis to change spacing, just as you suggest.\r\n\r\nOh, the dreadful,
    painful history you have missed! How I truly envy you! \r\n\r\nBy the way, PageMaker
    had a great feature that would automatically apply tracking according to size
    - - this is not an ideal situation at all, but it often worked better than nothing
    - - much, much better -- and it isn't at all analogous to what was happening with
    MM. \r\n\r\nBy the way, MM still works perfectly well with all versions of Windows
    including Vista - - simply install ATM Deluxe for NT and disable UAC. Try it -
    - you'll like it! \r\n\r\nOne problem with MM is the crazy nomenclature and lack
    of interactive control in programs. Only one program ever supplied up-front interactive
    slider bars without the confusing gobbledygook - - LightningDraw GX on the Mac.
    Had that feature been implemented in all layout and WP programs, everyone in the
    world would happily be using MM fonts today. \r\n\r\nIt's an unfair world out
    there!\r\n\r\nBe that as it may, many, including some at Adobe, predict that MM
    in some form will be with us again - - sometime within the next 5, 10 or 20 years,
    depending on whom you're talking to."
  created: '2008-09-03 00:33:31'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'PS. MM also did light to bold, compressed to wide, serif to flare to sans
    serif, etc. etc. - - and Lucas de Groot had a special MM font that did something
    vaguely pornographic - - I''m not making this up! I''ve never seen that font.
    Lucas offered me his entire library as a present when I got him a special beta
    copy of FontStudio that would work with PPC Macs - - and foolishly, I declined.
    I also gave that version of FontStudio to Carol Twombly, who really wanted it.
    She didn''t offer me anything in return. '
  created: '2008-09-03 00:58:21'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: PPS. Ralf is absolutely right - - the totality spacing can't be based on size
    alone. But spacing carefully optimized to size is a very good starting point.
    And you do need a starting point. If you didn't have one, you wouldn't be able
    to space a font at all.
  created: '2008-09-03 01:01:04'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'I don''t think it was uncommon for a hinted TrueType font to use hinted widths
    at small sizes. I believe Microsoft Sans Serif is wider at 8pt (96dpi) than it
    is at 9pt due to 8pt have hinted widths. '
  created: '2008-09-03 02:06:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Quark's tracking table Xtension has been doing this since 1989 (version 2.1).\r\nTypically,
    if using a face throughout a publication, one would set the table to decrease
    tracking the larger the type size became.\r\nI don't recall ever adding tracking
    for small sizes.\r\n\r\nAs Ralf notes, probably best to have it in the application,
    rather than the font.\r\nAlso, the user can kern display and text versions of
    a type differently with the XPress Kern Table Editor."
  created: '2008-09-03 02:48:45'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "http://typophile.com/node/28517\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-03 06:21:55'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...a font format that allows metrics to vary with size\"\r\nHot metal did
    this. The Merganthaler VIP typesetter did this. MM could do this. TrueType GX
    Variations too. All the current font formats allow any single outline to do it,
    so a collection of outlines can too. \r\n\r\nPageMaker and QuarkExpress allowed
    the user to define a table of a track-per-size, per outline. These work on a single
    outline with a value for each size. As long as the single outline master is still
    applicable to the range of size/track pairs used, somewhat fine!\r\n\r\n\"...a
    hinted TrueType font to use hinted widths at small sizes...\"\r\nAs this depends
    on the presence of a course grid, at which point the technique is most often being
    used for readability survival rather than as a refinement to spacing, it is really
    not a point to make.\r\n\r\n\"...the OpenType feature \u201Csize\u201D...\"\r\nis
    static, i.e. one label per font, it's not related to anything of the dynamic issue
    being discussed.\r\n\r\nIt would be great to have a truely dynamic version like
    GX Variations offered, but waaaaaay too many \"type people\" (lol) appear scared
    of this. It would bring out the cream of the crop in type design and use, and
    leave the janitorial type type people, (who must keep things understandable for
    themselves, or else!), in the dark at the back of the pack. Thus, since the janitorial
    type type people seem favored and rising for their lack of interest in granting
    type type intelligence, their lack of vision, and even of hearing, it's unlikely
    to happen in any of the \"big\" typesetting systems, much less in a standard.
    . . ever, or until the next generation of typographic janitors arrives. ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-10 13:10:55'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nIs it possible to ammend or extend the OpenType specification
    (and MS Volt) to support a different character width per point size, or at least
    to substitute a different character width when a typeface's point size is greater
    than a certain number?\r\n\r\nOr must we we wait for yet another typeface specification,
    like OpenType II, to have this?\r\n\r\n===\r\n\r\nI know that in Latin languages,
    this is useful for the M and N in the very least, and in Hebrew for the Shin in
    the very least; I'm certain that in other character sets this is needed as well.\r\n\r\nAt
    Lintotype of Hauppauge's Type Department, I was shown print samples of metal type
    typeface designs that had different character widths and slightly different designs
    at different point sizes. When I created a set of Linotype-like Hebrew type designs
    for the standard FrankReuhl typeface design, I inspected print samples of that
    typeface design at different point sizes. I found that each letter form had interesting
    design differences, created to be used at different point sizes.\r\n\r\nHence,
    it is clear then this is an essential feature of a typeface design, and something
    that should not be lost for convenience sake. Variable character widths and designs
    that are point specific should be incorporated into this or the next typeface
    standard like OpenType."
  created: '2008-09-10 14:04:36'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>R.H.\u201D...the OpenType feature \u201Csize\u201D...\u201D\r\nD.B.:
    is static, i.e. one label per font, ...</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd so it could be used
    to automatically switch between fonts with different designs and/or metrics depending
    on the used size. \r\n\r\n<cite>D.B.: ... it\u2019s not related to anything of
    the dynamic issue being discussed.</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd I must ask you a second time:
    Why do you think you can define the scope of a discussion you haven't started?
    My answer might be useful to James or any other reader. Let them decide and please
    stop always trying to prove my or other other peoples statements wrong. It's not
    helpful. \r\n"
  created: '2008-09-10 14:42:12'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "There are three issues here:\r\n\r\n1. The increase or decrease of spacing
    between the letters, known as tracking;\r\n\r\n2. The widths of a character's
    design;\r\n\r\n3. The actual design of the letter.\r\n\r\n\r\nThe first factor,
    a typeface's tracking, affects all the letters of a typeface across the board
    equally.\r\n\r\nThe second factor only affects the widths of those letters which
    the designer intends to be different at different point sizes.\r\n\r\nThe third
    factor only affects the design shapes of those letters which the designer intends
    to be different at different point sizes.\r\n\r\n\r\nFor example, if I was typesetting
    the phrase \"time in a bottle\", and I created a typeface with these variable
    widths, then at very small type sizes, the shape of the \"m\" (and perhaps \"n\")
    would have the horizontal strokes spaced further apart to increase its legibility
    and prevents ink spread on certain paper kinds, and the kerning between the two
    \"t\"s and the \"l\" of \"bottle\" (in kerning, there is no end, so I will not
    cite the other combinations where this would be helpful) needs also to be increased.\r\n\r\nAt
    large type sizes, I might seek the opposite to occur: the strokes of the \"m\"
    should be closer together to minimize the unnecessary while space. Similarly,
    the extra space between the letters \"t\" and \"t\", and \"t\" and \"l\", would
    be decreased. Perhaps, I would make a three letter ligature with equal distances
    between the horizontal strokes of the t, t, and l, and join the first two letters,
    but not the \"t\" and \"l\"."
  created: '2008-09-10 14:44:20'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Ralf Herrmann,\r\n\r\n> You could include this when using the OpenType feature
    \u201Csize\u201D:\r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/typography/otspec/features_pt.htm#size\r\n\r\nDoes
    this mean that the character's width(s) are changed in a different point size
    range (like from 13.9 until 24 as in the Microsoft example), or only the design
    shapes?\r\n\r\nHas Microsoft implemented this feature in its MS Volt software?"
  created: '2008-09-10 14:58:11'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">it is really not a point to make.\r\n\r\nPlease accept my humble apologies
    for mentioning it."
  created: '2008-09-10 16:01:04'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "<em>Does this mean that the character\u2019s width(s) are changed in a different
    point size range (like from 13.9 until 24 as in the Microsoft example), or only
    the design shapes?</em>\r\n\r\nThe \"size\" feature basically tells an application
    which font file to use for any specified point size range, so the changes are
    not limited to any characteristic.\r\n\r\nThe only application that can take advantage
    of this feature that I know of is XeTeX."
  created: '2008-09-10 16:09:23'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I asked my OpenType/Volt expert who confirmed that \"size\" is not a [direct]
    way to handle variable widths in a font.\r\n\r\nPerhaps, Simon Daniels of Microsoft
    can confirm that OpenType is flexible font format that allows new features to
    be added to it, such as variable character widths.\r\n\r\nIt would seem logical
    that if \"size\" can determine a point size range for tracking, then seemingly
    it can then input information to another unyet created or named operative that
    could change a character's width based upon its point size.\r\n\r\nMaybe, in the
    next main release of OpenType by Adobe/Microsoft the feature of variable character
    widths will be implemented.\r\n\r\nCertainly, implementation of this feature is
    vital to OpenType, because digital type would then include an important feature
    of metal type.\r\n\r\nWhat do you think, Thomas Pinney? At RIT, wasn't that an
    area of your study?"
  created: '2008-09-10 20:38:59'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "> Nobody really knows why Adobe pulled the plug [on MM fonts]\r\n\r\nI talked
    about it at great length in a presentation at ATypI. I've written about it in
    public as well. You may choose to not believe the explanations I've given, but
    to simply say \"nobody really knows\" is a bit odd. Certainly those of us who
    were here at Adobe when the decision was made to not support MM in OpenType are
    pretty familiar with the issue.\r\n\r\nI was not thrilled at the time with the
    decision not to support MM functionality in OpenType, but I understood the many
    pragmatic factors that went into it. These days a decision like that today would
    be made by me and David Lemon, but if somehow we could wind back the clock, I
    couldn't tell you which way we'd go on that one.\r\n\r\n> Dan Mills was later
    fired\r\n\r\nNot at all true. He retired to spend more time with his family.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-09-11 01:19:55'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Thomas,\r\n\r\n> I was not thrilled at the time with the decision not to
    support MM functionality in OpenType, but I understood the many pragmatic factors
    that went into it.\r\n\r\nCan you elaborate upon the \"many pragmatic factors\"?\r\n\r\nPerhaps,
    if convincing counter-arguments can be suggested, the clock can in deed be turned
    back, and David Lemon and you might conclude differently.\r\n\r\n\r\nWith a religious
    note, we are in the final Hebrew month, called \"Elul\", the traditional time
    of 'teshuva' (lit. return, or popularly known in English as 'repentance'), when
    we turn back the clocks and resolve that next year will be different. \"Teshuva\"
    is so powerful that it not only affects ones future, it can even change the past.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-09-11 02:28:55'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "BTroop:  Dan Mills was later fired\r\nTPhinney: Not at all true. He retired
    to spend more time with his family.\r\nMe: That's what I heard from him too. I'm
    curious though, as to whether he finished it and if Adobe is planning to publish
    it any time soon? ;)\r\n\r\nRHerrmann: And I must ask you a second time: Why do
    you think you can define the scope of a discussion you haven\u2019t started?\r\nMe:
    Defining the scope of discussion here, in general, is quite impossible, and topic
    \"ownership\" is fleeting. Stop asking and perhaps you will stop being disappointed.\r\nRHerrmann:
    You could (use the \"size\" feature)... But I don\u2019t think it would be a good
    idea. \r\nMe: What makes you think you can give an answer, then say it's not a
    good idea, and then complain when I fully agree?\r\n\r\nISeldowitz: ...must we
    [] wait for yet another typeface specification, like OpenType II, to have this?\r\nMe:
    Good question! I can only hope. Like most standard standard developments, the
    current one is the translation of 10-20 years of technology into \"education.\"
    Unlike most standard standard topics, the education in this topic is well ahead
    of the technology. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-13 12:47:50'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "One of the misapprehensions here is that tracking can ever be a substitute
    for variable metrics. It can't. As you go up and down the size scale, different
    letters will be spaced proportionately differently. At 6 points you might need
    proportionately more spacing around l shapes and less around o shapes -- or vice
    versa. It  depends on numerous factors. Tracking is only the crudest possible
    solution. \r\n\r\nI love it that there is someone here who genuinely believes
    that fired people really just left to spend more time with ... their families.
    Who am I to be cynical?\r\n\r\nMeantime, MM still works.\r\n\r\nIt's painful to
    hear David break taboo about the janitorial class in type. I would like to say
    that I don't have anything against janitors, and never have had. Love 'em. "
  created: '2008-09-13 14:10:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "So here's the thing...\r\n\r\nYou have text at a specific size and you want
    it to be as non-poo-like as possible. The 'possible' part may be constrained by
    non-typographic considerations -- resources and time, technological limitations
    -- compromising typographic quality. If there are no constraints, then the obvious
    way to make non-poo size-x text is to have a dedicated size-x font with appropriately
    designed outlines, spacing, kerning etc. Let's be clear that this is the proper
    solution and <em>anything</em> else is a compromise. Interpolation is a compromise.
    Tracking is a compromise. Variant metrics is a compromise. The compromises are
    on a continuum between poo and non-poo. As Bill points out, variant metrics would
    be better than tracking: it would be further from poo, closer to non-poo.\r\n\r\nBut
    the compromises are subject to the same non-typographic considerations and constraints
    as the ideal: resources and time and technological limitations. The closer the
    compromises get to non-poo -- i.e. the fewer typographic compromises they entail
    -- the more resources and time they are likely to require, and eventually they
    become essentially indistinguishable, in terms of cost, from the ideal, non-poo
    solution. At that point, such compromises simply are not worth spending time on:
    better to spend one's time making those size-x specific fonts. On the other end
    of the scale, there are compromises that are so close to poo that they, too, are
    not worth spending time on. We don't want to be in the business of making almost-poo.\r\n\r\nThe
    question then, is whether there are in fact compromises somewhere in the middle
    of the continuum that are sufficiently non-poo-like to be worth doing and sufficiently
    cheap, in terms of resources and time to be viable. And I'm not convinced that
    the answer is yes, although if I had to pick a technology that came close it would
    be TT variations.\r\n\r\nBasically, I've come to the conclusion that the compromises
    are all a waste of resources and time because, ultimately, the results are not
    satisfying, and in order to become more satisfying they need to become more complex,
    and will eventually become technically more complex than making size-x specific
    fonts would be. We'll know we've reached this point when designers are making
    size-x specific fonts and then processing them to fit them into the compromise
    technology. We may already have reached this point.\r\n\r\nThe answer is not new
    font formats or extensions of font formats. The answer is font development tools
    that make it viable for designers to produce size-x specific fonts, i.e. that
    reduce the cost in resources and time of doing it properly. Letterror's Superpolator
    and Tim Ahren's RMX tools strike me as the most significant advances."
  created: '2008-09-13 19:49:37'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: I'm desperately trying to find something to disagree with here but not succeeding.
  created: '2008-09-13 21:55:19'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Bill T >I\u2019m desperately trying to find something to disagree with here
    but not succeeding.\r\n\r\nWell, linear interpolation is a fatal compromise, and
    John believes so firmly that the answer is not new font formats or extensions
    of font formats, (only tools!), that it's impossible to agree with :) As long
    as the allied janitorial staff is making such decisions about what's \"Too hard\"
    and what's \"Too expensive\" and what's \"Too complex\", for all users, for all
    time... instead of just making sure such an extension doesn't  get in the way
    of the foundries/users determined to stay at poo corner... it'll stay that way.
    \"Lead, follow, or get out of the way\", is not allowed to cross their minds.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-14 14:11:15'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>If there are no constraints, then the obvious way to make non-poo size-x
    text is to have a dedicated size-x font with appropriately designed outlines,
    spacing, kerning etc. Let\u2019s be clear that this is the proper solution and
    anything else is a compromise. </cite>\r\n\r\nFine as long as you are talking
    about a theoretical technique, rather than say, results. Quick, Which size of
    metal Perpetua worked best? And how well did other sizes work?\r\n\r\nI'm aware
    that some plain old scaling was used even in the days of machine set metal fonts,
    but ignoring that, there were always some sizes that worked better than others.\r\n\r\nThe
    different masters has been done In digital type. Ignoring Adobe's 4 sizes (which
    to me seem to be multiple masters interpolations) Stone has re-released \"Cycles\"
    in a variety of sizes. \"Paperback\" did this too, though as I remember, after
    some use they had to go back & re-lable some masters as a different size. Nothing
    wrong with that, it's called \"testing.\"\r\n\r\nBut to somewhat cloud David's
    janitor model, the problem I see with the use of type arises from the artiste.
    The artiste's mind set, when beginning a new project, is to think \"What do I
    want to do?\" I've always felt the right question is \"what does it need?\" I'll
    allow the question & linkage of this thought to type design is tenuous. Fair enough
    for the type designer to take the mantle of artist. And fair enough if we don't
    like the offerings, or don't find them useful."
  created: '2008-09-14 15:22:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Metal type forced the use of individualized pointsize designs. Some of this
    was the needs of the production process and some was an intended attempt to fit
    pointsize with weight, spacing, and proportion. Digital type took the economics
    angle to task. We were not wedded to optical size differences and the added expense
    that comes with them so the money won out and we were one-size-fits-all. It was
    assumed tracking could solve everything--but they were wrong. The problem is that
    only sophisticated users give a damn and since bean counters have fonts too, they
    don't get the need for optical sizes. The sophisticated users who do quality publishing
    or even newspapers who need to fit more text in less space, really do care and
    see the need. The problem is the market for this sector is much smaller than the
    market for the \"I could care less, one size is good enough\" is quite large.
    So what is a foundry to do? The economics would tell us that finding the \"good
    enough for prime time\" compromise point would cover even most of the sophisticated
    users. This would have to be something that is far more easily achievable than
    drawing 4 optical sizes from scratch yet way better than just tracking. As we
    all know, tracking dumps the same amount everywhere which is not too helpful.
    Adobe's auto kern feature is an attempt to solve the problem but it does not work
    too well for text and causes copyfitting confusion. Just as in the 80s when we
    struggled to find \"Good Enough Color\" to allow digital halftones to take over
    the printing industry, we must go through the development and growing pains to
    find \"Good Enough Optical Sizes\" to progress in the typesetting industry. Let's
    not give up on trying to find a technological fix just yet just because we have
    not perfected anything \"Good Enough\" yet. I say bravo to anyone trying to solve
    this and I won't say nay to their efforts--keep trying!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-09-14 17:55:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "William Caslon the First spent most of his life on what we would now call
    one font, and really cut a full range of sizes. The problem is A. He fairly often
    messed up some characters in some sizes, and some sizes were altogether better
    than others; B. it took over half his life. As we know, beginning with metal type
    done with the pantographic punch cutter, this was reduced to three sizes, sometimes,
    with adjustments. Then during the brief photo type period did it go to one master,
    no adjustments? \r\n\r\nNow in digital we are contemplating doing the full range
    of sizes, again. Because of whole 'art is long, life is short' thing, I think
    help from technology is needed to solve the sizing problem on any regular basis.
    The means probably both understanding the problem of sizing better, and better
    tools. The tools can either be for font designers, or in the applications, or
    a combination of both. I'm not clear about what needs to go for the designer and
    in the app, but more and better programs are going to really help. "
  created: '2008-09-14 18:48:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Tracking is a compromise.</em>\r\n\r\nFrom the typographer's perspective,
    being able to adjust size, leading, scaling, tracking, kerning (and even \"grade\")
    are all useful tools to create a custom setting that works for specific content,
    layout, and media.\r\n\r\nWhen I used ITC Bodoni in a brochure, I found that the
    recommended sizes didn't work. I ended up using \"72\" at 14 pts, horizontally
    scaling it wider, and adding tracking.\r\n\r\nThere is a tremendous amount of
    leeway in the usability of fonts, and the various authors of a setting (software
    engineers, type designers, typographers), not to mention publishers, clients,
    and readers in general, all have different ideas of what does and doesn't look
    like shit."
  created: '2008-09-14 19:43:52'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Every change, since we moved away from scribes copying manuscripts by hand,
    has been for economic reasons. Every change (including type itself) has been met
    by cries of lost quality.\r\n\r\nMy problem with this thread is that it isn't
    just the metrics that need redoing with a significant size change, it is the characters
    themselves. Both would be nice.\r\n\r\nA while back we were hired to design &
    set a two volume edition on John Payne Collier. As I remember, most of the second
    volume was notes & bibliography. I chose Minion for the text, & used a custom
    \"instance\" of Minion MM -- 11 point optical size & a little different weight,
    with some work on the characters & metrics. But for some reason, I couldn't get
    a 9-point version to work. The then-new Adobe OpenType versions of Minion was
    just out, and the (whatever smallest) \"Optical\" was just right -- at least,
    in character weight. I've never liked Adobe metrics, which is probably just a
    matter of taste. There wasn't time for me to redo the kerning, so we just used
    it more or less out-of-the box for the extensive notes & bibliography. To me,
    that match of the character weight was the most important consideration. YMMV.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-14 19:52:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Charles, I''m interested, what haven''t you liked about the metrics? --I
    mean aside from the over-kerning of punctuation, which I think is a wrong decision.  '
  created: '2008-09-14 20:46:58'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">William Caslon the First spent most of his life on what we would now call
    one font, and really cut a full range of sizes.\r\n\r\nBut probably not the Great
    Primer, right? \r\n\r\n>As we know, beginning with metal type done with the pantographic
    punch cutter, this was reduced to three sizes, sometimes, with adjustments. \r\n\r\nNot
    as far as I know. The general rule is, new drawings for every size with Mono,
    every other size with Lino. It's below 12 points that the substantial changes
    need to be made.\r\n\r\n>Then during the brief photo type period did it go to
    one master, no adjustments? \r\n\r\nNo, William. How can you possibly think that?
    There were plenty of fonts with three or four size masters in phototype. Nobody
    bought them. That's why companies like Monotype, Agfa, and Linotype were never
    interested in repeating the tragic experiment (not that they did it right to begin
    with -- Monotype's awful 4 photo masters of Bembo are a typical example) and why
    optical size in digital type is primarily due to the interest of David Berlow
    on the one hand, and on the other Sumner Stone, who presciently guided Adobe into
    it but tragically didn't stay around long enough to fix things when his executants
    messed up. So a display optical axis (Kepler/Light/72) typically had a contrast
    ratio of only 1:3 (stems 45, thinnest thins 15), because (charitable explanation)
    Adobe wanted to be sure the font would be printable without dropout at 6 points
    if it were accidentally misused under those circumstances or (uncharitable explanation)
    the type group (Robert, Carol, Fred) didn't then know how to design display type.
    \r\n\r\nWell, they do now, but that may just have something to do with the 18th
    months I spent from late 1996 to early 1998 getting the message through to them.
    It culminated in a kind of lecture letter I just found which explained what Stone
    was doing with Arepo and Carter was doing with Big Caslon -- which was very different
    from Adobe's approach at that time. They have since seen the light. What is important
    to keep in mind is that as bad as the optical axes were in the MM types, they
    have been improved in the OT 'opticals'. That is progress! However it came about.\r\n\r\nYou
    don't become an expert in optical type technology for the wishing. It's easy to
    make misjudgments. Hence the observation that some metal sizes are sometimes substantially
    better than others -- 7-1/2 pt Bembo versus 8 pt Bembo to take a hypothetical
    example -- I forget the specifics on that one. Dan Carr is the kind of person
    who knows these things. "
  created: '2008-09-14 21:45:30'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">not to mention publishers, clients, and readers in general, all have different
    ideas of what does and doesn\u2019t look like shit\r\n\r\nGreat reminder, Nick!
    That's the reality! We pontificate about the ideal this, that and the other -
    - but the fellow who pays the bills has the last word . . . . "
  created: '2008-09-14 21:50:28'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">Charles, I\u2019m interested, what haven\u2019t you liked about the metrics?
    \u2014I mean aside from the over-kerning of punctuation, which I think is a wrong
    decision.\r\n\r\nWilliam, one of the things you have to keep in mind about an
    MM optical master is that the spacing is very difficult to do ideally and always
    represents a compromise. Because of the demands of spacing, the 50% point in a
    6-72 pt MM often has to be at about 14-18 pt. This is far from ideal.\r\n\r\nYou
    can see from this that in a conventional old-technology 6-72 pt MM, there would
    never be enough leeway to space 6-12 pt the way you could if you were simply designing
    each size as a separate. \r\n\r\nHence John's point, doing separate sizes is best;
    and David's point, that we need a more sophisticated format. It was in the mid-80s
    that Stephen Harper illustrated the possibility of using PostScript to interpolate
    from large size Garamond to small size Garamond and getting something usable in
    the middle -- which is basically all you can do with a PS MM optical axis. But
    in all the years since, we've learned that we need a lot more flexibility than
    this model permits. "
  created: '2008-09-14 22:00:36'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Bill (Berkson),\r\n\r\nWell, metrics is metrics. It probably is just the
    kerning. Once I decide to redo a text font for us to use setting books, I just
    start over with the kerning. If a sidebearing change reduces the number of kerns,
    I change them. When we decide to *support* a font for text, it gets certain attention,
    and often I don't remember just what gets done to what. For the record, I think
    Adobe fonts are pretty damn good; I didn't mean to imply any inferiority. \r\n\r\nBill
    (Mr. Troop),\r\n\r\nWell, in the early photocomp days, one foundry's fonts wouldn't
    work on another foundry's machine -- in fact, usually wouldn't work on another
    machine from the same foundry. So I can't say for sure that some of Monotype's
    *other sizes* weren't bought because they weren't any good, but that was certainly
    the case with a number of Linotype (202) fonts. I do remember Monotype's absolutely
    dreadful *Agency Fit* -- though that was in the early PostScript era, wasn't it?
    \ Couldn't trust a company who though that pleasing . . .\r\n\r\nI suspect the
    look that appeals to ad typographers will always differ from the look that appeals
    to book typographers, even though both of us will occasionally use 24-point type.\r\n\r\n&
    while I didn't hang out in the Monotype (UK) drawing room, as I remember, Bill
    Berkson is right, some of the sizes were basically just scaled. We could ask Cameron
    Poulter, he's old enough to know for sure."
  created: '2008-09-14 22:03:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...optical size in digital type is primarily due to the interest of David
    Berlow on the one hand, and on the other Sumner Stone...</em>\r\n\r\nFor me it
    was Hoefler's Didot, in Harper's Bazaar from 1991, which really addressed the
    issue of optical scaling in digital fonts, paradoxically by the way that different
    optical sizes were mixed in the same word, with equal hairline thicknesses. "
  created: '2008-09-14 23:36:38'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Well, Nick, I'd say that to the extent Jonathan knew anything about optical
    scaling when he designed (or caused to be designed -- he had assistants doing
    lots of his drawing, as I witnessed for myself) the Didot, I'd say he must have
    got it from his apprenticeship with David Berlow which is not a thing Jonathan
    likes to mention, ever. But the one-horse trick you're describing doesn't address
    the utter failure of HTF Didot as a viable text face. Jonathan still had a lot
    to learn in those days, but give him credit, he did grow. In the Didot, I see
    a purely technical approach to optical scaling. It is very simple to understand
    as such. What is lacking is any awareness of aesthetics, readability ... typography.
    We are all a lot more demanding of type nowadays. Those were very raw days for
    young designers. If you look at the progress Slimbach made from the original AtypI
    showing of Jenson (1994? with dreadfully long ascenders/descenders in the smallest
    sizes) to what he achieved two or three years later when it was released, you
    see that he had learnt a great deal in the interim. But the display sizes had
    nothing remotely comparable to the contrast and magesterial incision of Monotype's
    large sizes of Centaur. And small size parts of the axis had nothing comparable
    to the clarity and readability of the equivalent Centaur metal sizes. That's because
    ... see above. We were all very naive in those days! When Jonathan saw my first
    font (a Garamond display) he said, 'Do you realize you're already one of the top
    ten designers in the world?' It was total drivel but we were all reinventing the
    wheel at that time. Then, after I released a font called Adagio Didot, he never
    talked to me again, because he believed it to be in violation of his 'impeccably
    trademarked' family with which mine had no stylistic relation whatever. \r\n\r\nYou
    have so many, many concerns in optical scaling. You have all your optimizations
    to consider, then you have to consider colour from size to size, and colour within
    the entire range from large to small. Matthew Carter once told me he thought Linotype
    only ever got the colour scale right once, towards the end of metal. How do you
    adjust stem widths over the entire optical range while keeping ascender-descender
    length optimal, serif size optimal, spacing optimal, etc. etc. ? A very few exceptional
    individuals seem to be able to do this kind of thing on their own, but surely
    the rest of us need a group of brilliant collaborators? Yet the solo conditions
    most of us exist in breeds a distaste for collaboration . . . . and where is the
    economic incentive to collaborate? "
  created: '2008-09-15 00:52:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Bazaar_6397.jpg]\r\nAccording to H&F-J's
    web text, the collaborators were Liz Tilberis and Fabien Baron, and no doubt he
    was paid for the commission.\r\n\r\n<em>...one-horse trick you\u2019re describing
    doesn\u2019t address...</em>\r\n\r\nSure, we do things differently now, but at
    the time it wasn't that simple.\r\nThere is a traditon of art directors, especially
    in fashion magazines, pushing the finesse of modern-style hairlines and serifs
    to the limit--Alexander Liberman at Vogue in the 1950s, for instance. Robert Priest,
    at Esquire in the 1980s, had also created exemplary layouts which showcased meticulous
    detail. But compared with metal or phototype, digital technology took it to another
    level. \r\nThis Bazaar typography certainly addressed that tradition, and also
    represented the emergent layout technique of varying type size word by word. The
    negative leading and wilful \"bad\" colour wasn't the slick \"tight but not touching\"
    used by Priest, so was very much of its time. To touch all those bases, and mix
    in optical scaling, that was a pretty good trick, I'd say.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-15 04:37:40'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "> Ignoring Adobe\u2019s 4 sizes (which to me seem to\r\n> be multiple masters
    interpolations)\r\n\r\nAlmost all of them are. But Garamond Premier uses four
    separate cuts. Arno uses interpolations, and has 5 sizes instead of 4. I suspect
    most future Adobe typefaces with optical size variants will have 5 sizes. I would
    certainly go for five as a functional minimum.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-09-15 07:01:56'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Regarding more fonts vs. compromises: I feel like compromises might be a
    great option for people who aren\u2019t going to make the jump to fonts with optical
    sizes. Think about all the designers out there who don\u2019t even  know how to
    use the Opentype menu in Indesign/Quark/etc.. I don\u2019t think they\u2019re
    doing a lot with complex fonts with optical sizes. Word processing software users
    probably don\u2019t want to be bothered with more than one font with regular,
    italic, bold, and bold italic. But what really brought the whole thing up for
    me was noticing that some screen fonts would benefit tremendously from spacing
    that opened up at sizes that start turning words set in a heavy face into a chunky
    streak of mush."
  created: '2008-09-15 07:38:40'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "<cite>According to H&F-J\u2019s web text, the collaborators were Liz Tilberis
    and Fabien Baron, and no doubt he was paid for the commission.</cite>\r\n\r\nFabien
    Baron was the commissioning designer/art director of Harper\u2019s.\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fabien_Baron\r\n\r\nLiz
    Tilberis was the editor in chief of Harper\u2019s at the time. She passed away
    in 1999.\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liz_Tilberis\r\n\r\nIt appears that the
    unknown collaborators of Jonathan shall remain so (or maybe he will step in here
    and enlighten us).\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2008-09-15 08:23:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">But probably not the Great Primer, right? \r\n\r\nJames Mosley ascribes
    the Great Primer to Caslon, though he notes that it was strongly influenced by
    a Dutch type which it replaced at the printing house of Caslon's patron, William
    Bowyer. (Journal of the Printing Historical Society, 1981/82, p. 23-4.)"
  created: '2008-09-15 10:40:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...some screen fonts would benefit tremendously...</em>\r\n\r\nSurely
    the adjustment for simple users is the font size button?\r\nIf the type isn't
    clear, make it bigger!\r\nAnother tool that could be useful for them would be
    something along the lines of the Photoshop anti-aliasing button, which operates
    on a kind of fuzzy-logic principle. In other words, one tries out all the options
    and sees which works best.\r\n\r\n<em>...unknown collaborators...</em>\r\n\r\nProps
    to Font Bureau for publishing designer attributes, e.g. Weissman and Lipton for
    Benton Modern, but really, what a foundry chooses to reveal about how its products
    are manufactured is nobody else's business, and if designers want recognition,
    they should start their own foundry/studio."
  created: '2008-09-15 17:21:42'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Surely the adjustment for simple users is the font size button?</cite>\r\n\r\nBut
    if the problem is just loosening up headline fonts as they get smaller the user
    might not want to keep cranking up the size of everything on the page, which can
    break layouts in browsers that increase the text size without any other scaling. "
  created: '2008-09-15 17:39:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>John believes so firmly that the answer is not new font formats
    or extensions of font formats, (only tools!), that it\u2019s impossible to agree
    with</em>\r\n\r\nThat's a bit of a distortion of what I wrote. There are plenty
    of things for which I think a new font format is desirable -- heck, just getting
    beyond some of the table size limits in OT would be great --, and for optical
    sizes we need a robust format extension to enable apps and users to access appropriate
    sizes (preferably automatically but with the option of manual override). What
    I am not convinced by is app-side interpolation/variation technologies for optical
    size: linear interpolation because it is too close to poo to be worthwhile in
    terms of quality, non-linear interpolation because it is too close to non-poo
    to provide significant cost benefit, i.e. why not just make size-specific fonts?
    These technologies make a lot of sense on the developer-side, where they can speed
    up design and production processes while at the same time allowing post-interpolation
    manipulation and optimisation."
  created: '2008-09-15 18:03:43'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "All right, I <em>am</em> going to disagree. First of all with the nomenclature
    introduced by John to denominate the good and the bad in type. There is something
    profoundly wrong with this, but we haven't time to analyze what just now except
    to say that you only invoke poo when you don't want to think about what you're
    really talking about. Let's just drop it.\r\n\r\nWe have spent a little time discussing
    why linear interpolation of an optical (or other) axis may leave much to be desired.
    But the key thing to keep in mind is that just because Adobe didn't do it right
    throughout the 1990s, doesn't mean it can't be done right. It's been demonstrated
    since the mid-1980s how to do it right. It can be done. And there is plenty of
    evidence that Adobe, now, would do a much better job even within the constraints
    of first generation MM.\r\n\r\nSecond I must take issue with John's now very old
    opinion that MM is great for developers, bad for users. \r\n\r\nI think John is
    the only person in the world who holds this opinion. In its day, when it was first
    trotted out on the OT list about ten years ago, it was a brilliant rationalization
    for Adobe. \r\n\r\nAdobe was in shock because it had just lost the crown jewel
    of its type technology -- MM -- because Dan Mills had decided MM would have to
    be removed from the OT spec.\r\n\r\nAmong the many consequences, a notably bad
    one was that Adobe now had to explain that OT was a replacement for MM, and market
    it as such. This wasn't true and didn't make any sense. A notably good consequence,
    as explained by Thomas above, is that Dan was encouraged to love his family <em>even
    more</em> than he had loved it before. Wasn't that nice?\r\n\r\nJohn was the only
    person capable of coming up with what sounded like an intelligent reason to remove
    MM from OT. It was brilliant! John, we salute you for originality, aptness, and
    pertness -- in this case.\r\n\r\nBut now that Adobe has admitted it was a all
    a mistake, well, John, I believe you can safely retire the old chestnut!\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-16 17:37:06'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Also, all that needs to be said about optical size and 'most users' is Microsoft
    Word, circa 1995 version, Windows. It detects an optical axis, and automatically
    creates the correct instance according to what type size the user has selected.
    \r\n\r\nThe user doesn't even have to know it's all happening. No fuss! No effort!
    Just superior type. Why wasn't Adobe causing this to happen with every app? Bundling
    an MM with the Mac/Win OS's? Etc. etc. etc. Evangelism? Advertising? \r\n\r\nAnd
    OT is still clumsily struggling to get a weasly little decimation of this trick
    going . . . . . you gotta wonder ! \r\n\r\nTime for OT2, MM2, and Apple Too. Except
    the guy who could architect it all has gone to Google. Lucky Google! "
  created: '2008-09-16 19:21:48'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...i.e. why not just make size-specific fonts?\"\r\n\r\nBecause OS and
    apps will never handle it and font menus/font managment are already way OUT OF
    CONTROL! :)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-09-17 11:25:58'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "InDesign also does automatic optical sizing with MM fonts, btw.\r\n\r\n\"Dan
    was encouraged to love his family even more than he had loved it before.\"\r\n\r\nDan
    was neither fired nor encouraged him to leave. His decision on killing MMs was
    unpopular with a noticeable number of us on the team, but he was still well respected
    within the team.\r\n\r\nOne person has been fired from the type group during my
    11 years at Adobe, but it wasn't anyone known outside the group. A few have left
    because they decided to do something quite different - in my time, nobody has
    left the Adobe type team of their own accord who wanted to remain involved in
    type development. A number of people have been laid off as part of one or another
    of Adobe's periodic restructurings (common for high-tech companies). \r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-09-17 14:01:53'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'Thank you, Thomas, for this explanation! '
  created: '2008-09-17 14:33:56'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "I know I should just leave it like that, but I am a very bad person, so I'll
    ask two more questions: \r\n\r\nWhy did [one person] Fred Brady get fired?\r\n\r\nWhy
    did Linnea and Jim leave? (I was told it was because they were no longer on speaking
    terms with Robert.) \r\n\r\nAnd of course there's the whole Carol saga. \r\n\r\n(Don't
    take the bait, Thomas!!!!! You've got more important things to do!)"
  created: '2008-09-17 14:39:25'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Can I just say one thing on-topic?\r\n\r\nThis thread was started by a wonderful
    newcomer who sees a need for fonts to do something they aren't doing. Now he knows
    that a lot of other people also saw the need, and put a lot of work into making
    it work. Somehow it all got out of hand, and powers that be, for no particularly
    good reason, decided no user wanted this stuff.\r\n\r\nBut James's original question
    proves that there is an insatiable thirst for better font technology, and always
    will be. It's time for people to put their heads together and get it working.
    \r\n\r\nType is about the only computer technology where users are getting less,
    not more, as the decades roll by. That needs to change! "
  created: '2008-09-17 14:44:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Bill,\r\nI hope they find a better solution as well but I think the powers
    that be need a bigger showing of what the profitability would be in investing
    tin sophisticated type technology. They always are going to ask, \"Once we've
    solved the problem, am I going to make more money than it cost me to develop the
    solution?\"\r\nWe here who love type and want to see it get better for its own
    sake have a different outlook than the boardroomers and bean counters who come
    up with the cash. It would only come about if some young, energetic entrepreneur
    would come along and just do it and prove that it worked. I hope such a person
    is working on it now :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-09-17 14:58:46'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Bill, would you <em>please</em> stop trying to derail threads by acting like
    Suetonius?
  created: '2008-09-17 15:00:11'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'How can you figure out where you are now if you don''t know how you got there
    and why? '
  created: '2008-09-17 18:02:12'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Knowing how and why hardly requires us to know how well anyone got along with
    Robert Slimbach. So stuff the gossip or take it to the playground and share it
    with the other tween girls.
  created: '2008-09-17 19:05:02'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "I don't think I can agree, James. Ultimately, gossip is what people talked
    about while they were doing things round which historical events, great and small,
    revolved. I think we can all agree that nobody in type has ever put more high
    quality work hours into multiple master design than Robert. Maybe one reason the
    technology isn't here has something to do with the extent to which people were
    willing to go to bat for him. Please understand: the technology was here - - we
    had it - - it was deeply embedded into the Mac and Windows way of life. To take
    the drastic step of ripping it out - - something that's almost unprecedented in
    technology - - ? I will never believe that personalities weren't involved. Same
    with GX and Win95. Personalities. All great events have small stories behind them.\r\n\r\nGoing
    forwards, there are other issues to be addressed. I'm a multiple master evangelist.
    I don't like to talk about the problems that existed with the fonts. MM problems
    don't get mindshare from me. But there were lots of people who did have problems
    and vowed never to use them. Adobe's general response was, they were using ancient
    PS drivers or ancient versions of ATM and needed to update their software. Was
    that all there was to it? I don't know. I bought into Adobe's explanation wholesale,
    as they say.\r\n\r\nWere there similar problems with Variations fonts? Or did
    the GX model prevent that by simplifying the print stream that was ultimately
    seen by the printer? I guess we can never know, because there was probably never
    enough professional output. But I am guessing that, in this crucial architectural
    respect, Variations worked better than MM. Have I got this right? Is there something
    to learn from it? "
  created: '2008-09-17 19:43:08'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "From Bill Troop:\r\n\r\n<cite>The user doesn\u2019t even have to know it\u2019s
    all happening. No fuss! No effort! Just superior type. </cite>\r\n\r\nYou seem
    to like outrageous language, so here's some for you. I think I'm a better typesetter
    than you. Keep your hands off my applications programs & what happens without
    my control. Give me good fonts & let me set the type.\r\n\r\nOne of the myriad
    of things I like about Matthew Carter is that he doesn't claim expertise in the
    use of type. Another person you seem to mention with a bit of affection is Sumner
    Stone -- I think he shares that view as well. I recommend it to you.\r\n\r\nCharles
    Ellertson"
  created: '2008-09-18 02:23:30'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Charles, I am willing to bet that you are a better typesetter than I am,
    even though I have never seen your typesetting and you have never seen mine. But
    Sumner is a good typesetter. Among other things, he composed the article I wrote
    about him in 2006 for MacDirectory (http://www.macdirectory.com/newmd/mac/PAGES/REVIEWS/SizeDoesMatter/pdf/SizeDoesMatter1.pdf
    and http://www.macdirectory.com/newmd/mac/PAGES/REVIEWS/SizeDoesMatter/pdf/SizeDoesMatter2.pdf
    -- unfortunately the middle page, brilliantly showing off the different sizes,
    never got uploaded).\r\n\r\nRe Suetonicity, my eye fell this morning on this week's
    <em>Spectator</em> in which Sam Leith reviews A.N. Wilson's concluding volume
    of British history. He heads the review with the sentence Wilson wrote to begin
    his chapter on Suez.\r\n\r\n'Eden, the only male British prime minister known
    to have varnished his fingernails, was easily the best-looking individual, of
    either sex, to occupy that office in the 20th century.' \r\n\r\nLeith admires
    the element of gossip and the 'irrelevantly judgmental'. I'll take my writing
    tips from Wilson, rather than a design undergrad (albeit a clever one), even though
    I was dreadfully upset by Wilson's slanderous treatment of Winifred Wagner. And
    I rejoice to say I do not know what a tween is, and I hope nobody will ever tell
    me. "
  created: '2008-09-18 12:57:16'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>Among other things, he composed the article I wrote about him in 2006
    for MacDirectory </cite>\r\n\r\nHmm. Hard to tell with a PDF. Looks like Francesca
    Stauffacher's composition style; very similar to <cite>Type</cite> 1:1.\r\n\r\nTypesetting
    (composition, if you want) is rarely about showing off type. Sometimes it is about
    showing off a product, sometimes communicating the written word. If you can't
    rewrite the copy, as is usually the case when the end is communicating another
    person's  words, good composition is almost always about making good compromises.
    Whatever decisions you make, someone would always prefer you made others. For
    example, in the PDF you referenced, there are cases where, with ragged right composition,
    two letters are taken down. The graphic designer might approve; tough to find
    an editor who would let that pass.\r\n\r\nBut to stay on topic: With display type,
    be it an advertisement, a title page, or a chapter title, most anyone who makes
    any claim to typesetting skill is willing to fuss with the spacing of the letters
    -- the metrics. When you have 2,000 lines of foot- or endnotes, that isn't an
    agreeable option. The spacing of the smaller type better be good, because no comp
    I know is willing to adjust it in the setting part of the job. And as I said above,
    as important as the metrics are the character shape & weighting.\r\n\r\nP.S. I
    like Sumner Stone, and have admired his both work and kindness to Jack Stauffacher.
    But we've never met face to face, & in any case, I wouldn't feel comfortable gossiping.
    I've also admired some of Chuck Bigelow's work. Is that allowed in your gossipy,
    gotta pick a side world?"
  created: '2008-09-18 17:19:48'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: Charles, I am way too ambivalent to pick sides because what interests me is
    less people than their work. With either, you can be on one side for one reason,
    and on the other for another reason. I regret to say I know very little about
    Bigelow but I have always respected him for having the eye to highlight Frutiger's
    incredible Icone and for his own and his partner's incredibly utilitarian (in
    the good sense) typeface design. If there's one person I regret not knowing more
    than another when I had the opportunity, it's Jack Stauffacher. I really respect
    you because you describe yourself as a compositor. Long may you multiply!
  created: '2008-09-18 17:43:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I have not seen Jack Stauffacher since I was a college kid. He ran the Laboratory
    Press at Carnegie Mellon (Carnegie Tech back then in the early '60s). It was a
    fun memory, watching him work! Thanks for reminding me, Charles!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-09-18 20:24:09'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'Speaking of variable metrics and Jack Stauffacher, for several years he has
    only printed with two fonts: Metal Janson, and Stone''s multi-size digital Cycles
    family. A lifetime of fine printing experience distills it down to those two fonts.
    Who really needs anything else? '
  created: '2008-09-20 13:33:14'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'Speaking of variable metrics and Jack Stauffacher, for several years he has
    only printed with two fonts: Metal Janson, and Stone''s multi-size digital Cycles
    family. A lifetime of fine printing experience distills it down to those two fonts.
    Who really needs anything else? '
  created: '2008-09-20 13:33:17'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I've always thought both the metal Janson's -- Linotype and Monotype -- were
    very nice fonts. I recut a version in Postscript/OT for use with lithographic
    DTP printing, for my (Tseng's) own use. We've used it a fair bit, including Brown
    / <cite>Retreat from Gettysburg</cite>. \r\n\r\n(Small web sample, which never
    does any type justice. Only the interior, not the jacket, was set with this Janson.)\r\n\r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/gp/reader/0807829218/ref=sib_dp_pop_ex?ie=UTF8&p=S00W#\r\n\r\nMy
    problem with Janson is always what to use as display type. \r\n\r\nAs to the font
    generally, maybe some of the newer releases such as Storm have also solved the
    contrast problem of the letters, I don't know. In the original Linotype photocomp
    Janson fonts this was esp. egregious w/ offset printing. I do believe I like the
    metal Monotype cut over the Linotype, but it was one of the linecaster's better
    fonts. Printing with linecaster-set type was almost always worse than Monotype
    printed with any care.\r\n\r\nFWIW"
  created: '2008-09-21 03:28:32'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'Charles, I just get a blank from that link and I''m dying to see the type.
    Fred Brady when he was at Adobe was always talking about how he''d like to do
    a proper Kis revival, but of course nothing ever came of it. Sumner Stone made
    a valiant effort in his Autologic days which is best regarded as a practice run
    for later, more successful work. As late as the early 90s, one of the large printers
    was still using a very good Janson -- I''m thinking of one of the hardcover editions
    of ''Interview with a Vampire'' -- and now I can''t remember whether I thought
    it was metal or whether it was an amazing proprietary digitization that actually
    did the font justice. Which version does Stauffacher use? '
  created: '2008-09-21 16:07:10'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Hmm. The link takes you, for some reason, to an \"intermediate\" place with
    the Amazon reader. Clicking on the little left-right arrows at the top of the
    gray turns a page & the text appears. If you want to go back to the ad for the
    book & get to the sample the long way, here's another link:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/Retreat-Gettysburg-Logistics-Pennsylvania-Campaign/dp/0807829218\r\n\r\n*
    * *\r\n\r\nIt is always best to look at type designed for high-resolution offset
    printing in a book. I'm not sure the pages on the link show anything worth judgment,
    be that favorable or unfavorable. Another book that I set using this font is <cite>Bach
    Perspectives</cite> Volume 1, designed by Dika Eckersley, wife of Richard Eckersly,
    and a fine designer in her own right. That title is probably more widely available
    in libraries. As I remember, I set vol. 1, vol. 2 was set at our shop, & the later
    volumes were set elsewhere.\r\n\r\nI don't know which version of metal Janson
    Stauffacher uses. I would assume Monotype. I never knew him very well, our only
    contact was through Richard Eckersley, who was a very good friend. But now I'm
    gossiping; apologies to the thread.\r\n\r\nEdit:\r\n\r\nNow that I think on it,
    that Janson was also used for the letters of Henry James (University of Nebraska
    Press), the last thing designed by Richard Eckersly. he died before the first
    volume was printed. It was a nice enough design, but will never make the book
    shows -- a lot of books Richard designed were for use, with nothing added excite
    show jurors (& detract from reading). "
  created: '2008-09-21 17:11:16'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'I''ve been mad about Eckersley''s work ever since I discovered the philosopher
    Avital Ronell, with whom he worked for two decades though they never actually
    met. I''m now more than ever curious about your Janson. Can''t you tell us a little
    more about it? '
  created: '2008-09-21 19:33:32'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "OK, with profound apologies to James Puckett, who's thread has now been hijacked
    beyond repair . . .\r\n\r\nOne of the problems us older photocomp comompsitor's
    face is when young designers come along & want to use classical fonts from the
    metal era; fonts they have read about, but all too often don't work well in photocomp.
    With the Linotron 202, Janson & even the later Janson Text were such fonts --
    with a 10-point setting, the Linotron 202 Janson lower-case \"o\" looked like
    two tiny parentheses. Etc.\r\n\r\nI got started using Fontographer somewhere around
    1990, when the designer Mary Mendel was up to do the AAUP Book Show Catalog. Rather
    than design it & have it set (& printed) gratis -- the usual way for these catalogs
    to be produced -- she decided to take the then-new Macintosh/PageMaker tools &
    set it herself. She chose Ehrhardt & had at it, & then asked me for some help.
    First problem was the Ehrhardt, at that time a PostScript Type 3 font from Monotype.
    That led me to Fontographer.\r\n\r\nSince I'd always liked Janson (metal), I started
    fooling around with it. All this is just background -- or maybe foreground --
    to explain why I can't remember what's what. I don't remember just which version(s)
    of Janson I started with. On one corner of my table is PS Janson Text on a 5-1/2
    inch floppy and the Ehrhardt in PS Type 3 format. There are some others of unknown
    origin, & specimens printed from Stempel Janson. Anyway, I didn't start from scratch,
    & strictly the fonts can only be used by us.\r\n\r\nAll this was going on while
    we were still setting type on the Linotron 202. The first person to use \"my\"
    re-worked Janson in a book was my wife, for one of her designs. As luck would
    have it, about the time the book was printed, George Mackie was over to the states
    & my wife got him to critique it. (He liked both the design and the type). I started
    using it for our own typesetting as we switched from the 202 to PostScript. All
    this preceded the PDF format, and everybody was still running out repro & pasting
    up pages on the light table. Printing plates were still burned from flats. I kept
    fooling around with the Janson according to how things looked when printed, when
    the amount of leading used by the design community changed, etc.\r\n\r\nBy the
    time PDF & DTP printing came along I was a bit tired of fiddling with it, but
    I think it holds up pretty well; several designers still specify it for interiors,
    and I still use it for some historical texts when Monticello seems inappropriate.
    Recently I converted it to OpenType, but didn't revisit either the characters
    or the kerning. It could obviously be improved, but best would be for one of today's
    talented young font designers to start over & create a new revival that could
    be commercially sold. Maybe there isn't enough interest though, revivals of classical
    designs don't seem to be of much interest to the new generation of type and graphic
    designers.\r\n\r\nBTW, Richard's son, Sam Eckersley, is a designer living in your
    neighborhood. http://www.red-nyc.com/\r\nSam is a fine designer & shouldn't be
    though of as Richard's son any more than Richard should be though of as Tom's
    son. But maybe if you bought him a good dinner, he'd give you a copy of <cite>Remembering
    Richard</cite>, which was written, designed, and manufactured by Richard's friends.
    There is a nice piece by Ronell in the book, & she says \"Of course, we would
    schedule meeting times in Berkeley or Lincoln or Paris--or later on in New York,
    to where his kids had migrated.\" So I'm not sure they never met."
  created: '2008-09-21 21:54:30'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Charles, it's a little confusing. In an interview somewhere on the web --
    and I don't at all know when this dates from, Ronell said,\r\n\r\n'And often I
    did argue with Richard Eckersley, the marvelous designer, because I felt that
    he was pulling away from the telephonic logic that I wanted his work to reflect
    and that he was becoming too autonomous\u2013becoming a computer virtuoso. I didn't
    want the computer to overtake the telephonic markings that I felt needed to be
    continually asserted and reasserted. In a sense, we had a war of technologies\u2013of
    course, over the telephone (I have never met Richard).'\r\n\r\nRe the Janson,
    I think you should do something about it. A Janson that Eckersley used (in his
    last book no less) is a Janson we would all be interested in. I doubt that the
    original rights-holder would particularly care, but . . . I'll redigitize the
    font for you if you like -- no charge, no nothing -- just careful work! \r\n\r\nFunnily
    enough, the first I heard of The Telephone Book was from Jeff Level, who thought
    it was the last great achievement of pre-Mac typesetting -- when in fact it was
    the first great piece of virtuoso typesetting on the Mac. \r\n\r\nWe are hijacking
    the thread, but in a sense it's relevant. Janson is one of the fonts that just
    doesn't react well to being designed as a single master. Variable metrics isn't
    enough. It can probably only work with a tiny size range. Janson is one of the
    toughest cookies! Another reason why I think you should find a way to make yours
    more available is that a young designer willing to put that much work into a font
    is more likely to spend the time on his or her own design. "
  created: '2008-09-21 23:29:13'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>Funnily enough, the first I heard of The Telephone Book was from Jeff
    Level, who thought it was the last great achievement of pre-Mac typesetting \u2014
    when in fact it was the first great piece of virtuoso typesetting on the Mac.</cite>\r\n\r\nNo,
    Jeff Level is about right. If you're really interested in Richard Eckersley, you
    need to read <cite>Remembering Richard</cite>. There were only 300 copies printed,
    & it was privately circulated. I don't know who owns the rights, what permissions
    would be needed for more copies. Rich Hendel did most of the coordinative work,
    Paul Betz edited it, I set it, and Thomson-Shore printed it. After friends & family
    had their copies, the remainder were distributed at the AAUP Production Manager's
    Meeting. I believe I still have a PDF of the whole book; surely Rich Hendel does.
    I think he and Dika Eckersley would be the ones to ask about another distribution.
    There was a little bit of nonsense in it, but most was true to the man and his
    work.\r\n\r\nI mention this because one of the pieces was by Michael Jenson, who,
    if anyone could be called the typesetter of <cite>The Telephone Book.</cite> I'll
    quote him:\r\n\r\n>>\r\n\r\nMost all of <cite>The Telephone Book</cite>'s base
    typography was not done on the Mac, but, rather, with \"traditional\" tools of
    phototypesetting, design creativity and visualization, creative use of darkroom
    equipment, and a lot of razorblade work. (p. 27)\r\n\r\n. . .\r\n\r\nWe started
    by going over what was functionally possible using the Linotronic 202 and the
    Magna typesetting system. There was reasonably good WYSIWYG (What You See is What
    You Get) functionality on the Magna, but the L202 could also be pushed beyond
    what the Magma system could represent on the screen, which we also explored (p.
    29)\r\n\r\n>>\r\n\r\nA lot of us, including Richard, got tired of all the talk
    about <cite>The Telephone Book.</cite> Not the work itself, the talk. I remember
    providing Behren with some material. What came out in the article was \"Hammer
    blows.\" Well, I said it, as a part of a sentence contrasting TTB to Eckersly's
    subtle humor, which was rather more prevalent in his designs. But that's not what
    got emphasized when the article was printed.\r\n\r\nI suppose I'm guilty too.
    I said the design for <cite>The Letters of Henry James</cite> was Richard's last
    work. I remember having to make some last-minute decisions without him. But as
    anyone who's worked in a publishing house knows, a designer always has a number
    of projects going on, some nearing completion (final proof), some going to/just
    back as first proof, some still on the drawing board, some just sketched. There
    was no \"last book.\" Annie Shahan, who more or less succeeded Richard as Senior
    Designer at Nebraska, would have the strongest vote as to the \"last book.\"\r\n\r\nAs
    to the Janson, if you want to digitize it & have it available as an Open Source
    Font, fine with me."
  created: '2008-09-22 01:51:41'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Let's do it. I like the idea of open source. \r\n\r\nI'm glad Jeff was right
    after all -- mostly - - and so will he be. But isn't it amazing how difficult
    it is to establish the facts? how complex the story is? Practically anything you
    say is just the tip of the iceberg!"
  created: '2008-09-22 13:05:54'
date: '2008-09-02 03:58:59'
title: Fonts with variable metrics

---
