---
author:
  name: Nick Job
  picture: 110778
body: Anyone else loving Google Chrome or is it just me?
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: (Sorry if you're on a Mac.)
  created: '2008-09-04 14:39:03'
- author:
    name: Dan B.
    picture: 114033
  body: 'Finally something that does not get in your way! But I have discovered one
    thing I don''t like about it: it does not let me click the scroll wheel and then
    go up or down the page by just moving the mouse (if that makes sense).'
  created: '2008-09-04 14:50:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: You're right, it doesn't. They're sure to iron that out though.
  created: '2008-09-04 15:06:24'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: Where are the AD BLOCKING features?
  created: '2008-09-04 16:18:47'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Where are the AD BLOCKING features?\"\r\n\r\n;o)"
  created: '2008-09-04 17:06:16'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: I switched after 1 hour of using it. Uninstalled Firefox. A few glitches here
    and there but it's worth it.
  created: '2008-09-04 20:25:27'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: So no one minds the <a href="http://arstechnica.com/news.ars/post/20080903-google-on-chrome-eula-controversy-our-bad-well-change-it.html">EULA</a>?
  created: '2008-09-04 21:59:57'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "They've already backed down on [[http://go.fark.com/cgi/fark/go.pl?i=3847716&l=http://www.pcmag.com/article2/0,2817,2329414,00.asp|Section
    11]] of the EULA.\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-04 22:13:04'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Ah good. That is the bit that really had me wondering. I will probably try
    it once it is available for the mac, but more than likely I'll stick with Safari.
    The design is a little elementary for my taste.
  created: '2008-09-05 00:19:10'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: "so far the only think i miss in it vs. Firefox is the spell check. Google
    seems to identify mis-spellings, but doesn't give you options to fix it. Firefox
    lets you right click the mis-spelled word, and select from most likely options.\r\n\r\nJason
    c "
  created: '2008-09-05 01:22:03'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "I like overriding default fonts and you can't really do that well in Google
    Chrome. Currently, I'm running pages in FF with Cambria and I love it!\r\n\r\nI've
    come to the conclusion that Chrome is really a stripped down version of FF. But
    really until they add ad blocking, I'm not jumping onboard. Plus, I really love
    FF, there are so many great things and I only expect more from it in the future. "
  created: '2008-09-05 01:33:42'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Yepp. I'm using Chrome right now. It runs rings around Firefox and IE, both
    of which will probably slip into decline as a result. Haven't really read the
    EULA yet. I  switched strate from IE to Chrome. Never bothered with Firefox because
    it never offered a significant enuff advantage over IE to make it worthwhile.
    Both IE and Firefox have major shortcomings.\r\n\r\nAnybody want to post a comparison
    of Chrome to Safari and Opera?\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-09-05 08:24:27'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "@Darrel: <em>Where are the AD BLOCKING features?</em>\r\nWhat ads? I'm not
    getting any ads in Chrome.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-09-05 08:25:42'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I\u2019ve come to the conclusion that Chrome is really a stripped down
    version of FF.\"\r\n\r\nWell, it's based on WebKit, so it's more related to Safari
    than Firefox.\r\n\r\nGoogle has been (and will continue to be) a major financier
    of Firefox, so it's an odd decision on their part. The theory that makes the most
    sense to me is that Google Apps depends heavily on JavaScript and the current
    crop of browsers just suck at that, so they thought the easiest solution would
    be to just write their own browser.\r\n\r\nChrome, for the most part, is Google's
    Operating system for Google applications. If you are an avid user of Gmail, Google
    docs, Google sites, Google calendar, Google reader, Google etc, then Chrome is
    the browser for you.\r\n\r\nIf not, there's probably not a really strong reason
    to bother with it at this point.\r\n\r\n\"It runs rings around Firefox and IE,
    both of which will probably slip into decline as a result.\"\r\n\r\nIt'll probably
    chip away at Firefox's share, but probably won't have much effect on IE. Anyone
    that uses IE isn't the kind of user that's even aware that the web browser is
    actually a piece of software that they can choose alternative for.\r\n\r\n\"What
    ads? I\u2019m not getting any ads in Chrome.\"\r\n\r\nThat wasn't me that mentioned
    the ads. I just thought it was a funny comment (google makes money via web ads)."
  created: '2008-09-05 15:32:47'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: 'James, I asked "where are the ad blocking features". And I''m still asking.
    Google Chrome has a lot of nice features, but I''ve gotten pretty a accustom to
    FF and I don''t see me switching to Chrome right out of the gate. There are bound
    to be missing features and bugs and I''m anticipating that. So, I''ll just wait
    and see what happens next. '
  created: '2008-09-05 15:46:25'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: it seems chrome combines the good features from ff and ie, i haven't found
    the bad yet, but will be sure to post back once i find them.
  created: '2008-09-05 15:52:23'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "I tried Chrome and it feels nice but, as others remarked, where is the ad
    blocker?\r\nI don't mind static ads but I simply can't stand it when anything
    moves while I am reading the news or so.\r\nSo, no flash blocker, no Chrome for
    me. Unfortunately. I will give it another try as soon as there is a flash blocker
    available.\r\nAlso, as [[http://news.yahoo.com/s/ap/20080904/ap_on_hi_te/tec_tech_test_google_chrome|this
    article]] points out, flash often uses more resources that you could ever save
    with Chrome."
  created: '2008-09-05 16:00:41'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Asvetic, Darrel, sorry, my goof. \r\n\r\n@Darrel: <em>Anyone that uses IE
    isn\u2019t the kind of user that\u2019s even aware that the web browser is actually
    a piece of software that they can choose alternative for.</em>\r\n\r\nI've been
    an IE user from the very beginning of the popular internet, and I've been trrying
    all kinds of browsers ever since, yet I always went back to IE because it works
    well enuff.\r\n\r\nTim, guys, peeples, Chrome doesn't have an ad blocker because
    it doesn't need one. The ad blocking is built into the thing, which is why you
    don't have an option to turn ad blocking on or off. Ads are blocked permanently.
    I'm not getting any ads where I don't want them in Chrome. The proof is in the
    pudding. Don't assume Google are going to the use the same software and interface
    model as IE, Firefox and all the others, because Google are well-known for their
    intuitive approach to software and application design.\r\n\r\nI mean, I'm a gmail
    user, and I wouldn't even consider going back to any other kind of email client,
    especially not a stand-alone desktop-based proggie like Outlook and its ilk, because
    gmail is so intuitive and simply anticipates what people need it to do automatically.
    compared to gmail, I would describe Outlook as a hopeless, outmoded, time-wasting,
    unintuitve, stupid, badly-constructed, over-complicated piece of junk.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2008-09-05 16:32:17'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: "James,\r\nDon't hold back. Tell us how you really feel about Outlook.\r\n\r\n(I
    use Thunderbird, myself)"
  created: '2008-09-05 16:37:46'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "I'm not alone in thinking Chrome is missing a few features:\r\n\r\nhttp://news.cnet.com/8301-17939_109-10033296-2.html"
  created: '2008-09-05 16:44:43'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"And I\u2019m still asking.\"\r\n\r\nOh! Sorry, I thought you were joking.\r\n\r\nIf
    they add it, it'd be interesting, but given that Google's primary income comes
    from web ads, I find it hard to believe they will put too much effort into allowing
    you to block them using their own browser. ;o)\r\n\r\nThat said, Chrome is open
    source, so give it a week and I'm sure someone will have a solution.\r\n\r\n\"I\u2019ve
    been an IE user from the very beginning of the popular internet, and I\u2019ve
    been trrying all kinds of browsers ever since, yet I always went back to IE because
    it works well enuff.\"\r\n\r\nSure. That's kind of my point. Anyone that's fine
    using IE probably has no incentive to bother using anything else. "
  created: '2008-09-05 18:10:22'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "Nope, not joking. I'd say I'm a proponent for free internet. It's becoming
    a life blood for so many organizations and communities (ahem, Typophiles), that
    to not have internet access is almost a crime. \r\n\r\nBut, I don't have free
    internet. I have to pay for it, like most other people. However, I'm also subjected
    to a constant stream of advertisements... I feel the same with television. You
    have to pay for the service (if you have anything more than an antenna, which
    will eventually be gone soon too) and yet you're forced to watch commercials ad
    nauseam. \r\n\r\nSo, I would prefer to have a program that can atleast filter
    out a large chunk of that noise and leave the more important features available.
    \r\n\r\nThere are many arguments for and against, and I'm aware of that. It's
    just, I'd prefer to have a choice in the matter. Right now, Google isn't giving
    me that choice. \r\n\r\nThey might be open source, but until they allow plug-ins/add-ons
    that support my choices, I'm not jumping on board. \r\n\r\nI prefer FF over IE
    because it's a forward moving application. They're trying to be open to all features
    of the web. IE makes small waves, but it's still a locked-tight box with little
    expandability. It all comes down to choices. Some people like the freedom of choice,
    some don't care, and some just want things to be as simplistic as possible. "
  created: '2008-09-05 18:24:58'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I completely understand what you're saying, Asvetic. I'm just pointing out
    the irony of Google developing a browser with built in web advertising blocking,
    as their primary source of income to pay for things like developing a browser
    comes from web advertising.\r\n\r\nFTR, I'm completely on your side in regards
    to open/free/community internet. I'm very tired of paying the cableco/telco monopolies
    for the 'honor' of their incredibly crappy customer service and crazy pricing."
  created: '2008-09-05 19:38:50'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "Spellchecker (working in both English and Russian), DownThemAll and Web Developer
    plugins. Once chrome has these, I'll consider switching. For now, I'll stick to
    Firefox.\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal Art and
    Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2008-09-05 19:58:19'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Hmmm, so Chrome may have a built-in ad blocker, but does it also block Flash
    ads?\r\nTo me, that is exactly the crucial point.\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-05 20:54:26'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Trust Tiffany to go straight for the EULA - - that was a brilliant find!
    It's a very significant moment - - that Google is capable of even getting near
    such an atrocious EULA means the idealistic days are over -- really, truly, over.
    We could be watching the birth of a new MS, and it will require constant user-policing
    to make sure this doesn't happen anytime soon.\r\n\r\nThe great thing about Chrome
    -- and about IE 8 -- is that they try to keep each tab or window an entirely separate
    process -- this is really big news because it means that -- unlike any other browser
    -- a single errant tab won't take the entire browser down.\r\n\r\nSo far, Chrome
    is implementing this concept more rigidly and more thoroughly (and more effectively)
    than Microsoft.\r\n\r\nThe downside in both cases is huge memory footprints and
    startlingly high thread counts. You'll need twice as much memory for either as
    you did for previous generations of browsers. If you have the memory and processor
    power, Chrome has by far the most persuasive architecture of all the browsers.\r\n\r\n1/3
    gig to run 10 tabs. What about 20? 30? All of a sudden, 4GB of memory is beginning
    to look like 4MB of memory. I've never understood why a browser takes up so much
    memory -- what is it but a hypertext interpreter after all? Yet the programmers
    at both MS and Google seem to have the same message: to advance the architecture
    means having even <em>more</em> memory.\r\n\r\nSo how will Mozilla react? "
  created: '2008-09-05 22:37:31'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I've been using Chrome as my primary browser since Tuesday now.\r\n\r\nPlus:
    Blazingly fast. Very stable. Each tab is a process. Minimal \"chrome\" to clutter
    the UI (making the name rather ironic).\r\n\r\nMinus: Not being able to override
    fonts in web pages. Imported bookmarks end up in a *sub-menu* of the bookmarks,
    with no apparent practical way to move them all out to the main level.\r\n\r\nOverall:
    Thumbs up, but with significant reservations. But still about the most impressive
    pre-1.0 \"beta\" app I've used.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-09-06 07:13:07'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "<cite>Not being able to override fonts in web pages.</cite>\r\n\r\nI noticed
    that too.\r\n\r\nIn FF I run everything in Cambria now. Love IT! "
  created: '2008-09-06 07:26:17'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "for me, as I am not using googles web-apps heavily, chrome is a very impressive
    but stripped down browser (or should we say operating environment?), resulting
    in a stripped down web experience for me. I can't influence how web content is
    presented to me (filtering, re-styling, adding additional information, ...), which
    is a killer feature of firefox to me.\r\n\r\nIf\r\n... there were more preferences
    to set\r\n... there was an addon system\r\n... it was not google watching every
    step you take with UIDs, cookies etc.\r\n(... it adjusted it's look to the native
    UI of the operating system running on)\r\n(... googleupdate.exe phoning home 2x/h,
    whether chrome is running or not)\r\nit would be my favourite browser. Too many
    ifs at the moment."
  created: '2008-09-06 20:28:28'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "<cite>... [If] it was not google watching every step you take with UIDs,
    cookies etc.</cite>\r\n\r\nThere was a big outcry when MS was accused of doing
    this. They backed down, and I've never heard it mentioned again -- until now!\r\n\r\n(What's
    the current status of their user profile mining?)"
  created: '2008-09-06 20:56:35'
- author:
    name: javaboy7962
    picture: 114521
  body: "I have every major browser on my Toshiba Satellite A215 laptop, running Vista
    Home Premium.\r\n\r\nI prefer Firefox 3 for most things, but Safari for Windows
    is by FAR the most stable. Chrome is okay, but I haven't used it that much because
    I am so big on FF3 and Safari Win. \r\n\r\nI keep IE7 around for my boyfriend
    to use and for watching movies on Netflix.\r\n\r\nI also have Browzar, the free
    \"private\" browser, which in itself is pretty good. \r\n\r\nI just don't see
    the need for Google to come up with a new browser, except for the fact that they
    seem to be creating more and more stuff that would be a vital part of their own
    OS. \r\n\r\n - Gmail\r\n - Blogger\r\n - Documents\r\n - Calendar\r\n - Desktop
    \r\n - Chrome\r\n\r\nMy suspicion is that they are amping up their products to
    be a new free OS on par with Linux. They probably are cultivating these new applications
    and generating all this buzz to lure people from other systems. I already use
    two different Gmail accounts, write in documents, etc. \r\n\r\nI would wager that
    within five years Google will have a new OS and make it big with users turned
    off by the people turned off by the exclusivity of MS and Mac and target a new
    cult of tech-savvy youth and millennials. I wouldn't even be surprised if they
    started manufacturing manufacturing their own devices.  "
  created: '2008-09-06 21:16:41'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I just don\u2019t see the need for Google to come up with a new browser\"\r\n\r\nThey've
    pretty much said why: all current browsers have really crappy memory handling
    when it comes to JavaScript execution.\r\n\r\nBut you are correct, this is pretty
    much the Google OS that has been rumored from what I can tell.\r\n\r\nSome think
    it might become an actual full-fledged OS as you state. I'm not convinced yet,
    but things like their Cell Phone 'OS' Android  is a convinced argument for it..."
  created: '2008-09-06 22:29:42'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "After Google eased up on the eula, I reinstalled Chrome. I had the same problem
    as Thomas as far as bookmarks on my laptop, but they were imported from Firefox
    correctly on my desktop. So I installed Firefox 3 on my laptop, reinstalled Chrome
    and my bookmarks imported properly - showing correctly in the bookmarks toolbar.\r\n\r\nSharon"
  created: '2008-09-07 22:00:03'
- author:
    name: alexfjelldal
    picture: 109596
  body: ".........................................................\r\n<a href=\"http://www.bisondesign.no\">Bison
    Design</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myspace.com/sponnorway\">Sp\xF6n</a>\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-08 12:15:15'
- author:
    name: Lodus411
    picture: 115688
  body: "I'd have to say i love Chrome. I switched after I read the online comic they
    offered. It was a great way to really understand what makes Chrome an actual contender
    in the browser world. You can find the Chrome Comic here: \r\n\r\nhttp://www.google.com/googlebooks/chrome/\r\n\r\n@oprion
    \r\n\r\n\"Spellchecker (working in both English and Russian), DownThemAll and
    Web Developer plugins. Once chrome has these, I\u2019ll consider switching. For
    now, I\u2019ll stick to Firefox.\"\r\n\r\nChrome actually does have spell checker
    built in as well. :)"
  created: '2008-09-08 15:45:29'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: I'll hold off until it checks facts as well.
  created: '2008-09-08 16:11:07'
- author:
    name: dali137
    picture: 111589
  body: "Ah Google... I think this may be the turn for the worse in your scheme to
    rule the world or at least the internet... jk.\r\n\r\nI won't be using Chrome
    after reading this...\r\nhttp://www.tgdaily.com/content/view/39176/108/\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-08 22:34:11'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "My computer is full of all sorts of sensitive information, and my hard drive
    is encrypted and protected in multiple ways. As long as Google Chrome's indexing
    is on my local hard drive, I have no problem with it.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-09-09 06:14:08'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "dali:\r\n\r\n\"the browser was indexing information from HTTPS sites\"\r\n\r\nHTTPS
    would be a network transfer protocol, while the browser cache would be a local
    computer behavior.\r\n\r\nThat article seems to be describing the functionality
    of the local browser cache and spinning it as a security hole.\r\n\r\nGranted,
    having data like this in the local cache is certainly an issue, but not really
    something that is unique to Chrome.\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-09 15:27:54'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "interesting article on the chrome logo\r\n\r\nhttp://www.labnol.org/internet/google-chrome-logo-design-inspiration/4414/#Scene_1\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-09 16:51:20'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i promised to post back once i found problems and i've had a big, annoying
    one recently. it seems that yahoo mail no longer plays nicely with google chrome.
    i'm not sure if that has to do with changes yahoo has made or what, but chrome
    seems to choke on yahoo mail and on hotmail. i find this a big drawback for using
    this browser.
  created: '2009-01-26 18:23:39'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Yeah, I found that as well. I can view Yahoo mail fine, but not reply.  :(\r\n\r\nI
    also had a problem for a while with my WordPress admin functions where they stopped
    working in Chrome, but somehow that resolved itself.\r\n\r\nBasically, I need
    to keep an alternative browser around \"just in case,\" but I am still using Chrome
    as my primary browser. However, if one of the misbehavior problems involved a
    site I used all the time, I'd have to abandon Chrome.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-01-27 08:00:01'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "Thomas and Paul\r\nMy Yahoo doesn't work great with Chrome either. Hmmmmm.
    If you can't use Hotmail or Yahoo Mail on Google Chrome then you have to stop
    using it and use another browser or get a googlemail account. Do you see what
    I'm saying? Wait, there's a knock at the door..."
  created: '2009-01-27 12:41:14'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: i use chrome at work all the time and love it! i can't wait for the mac version,
    then i'm set for home at well!
  created: '2009-01-27 13:44:25'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "dali137  <cite>I won\u2019t be using Chrome after reading this...</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    laughed when I clicked your link. The article about how Chrome is a personal security
    nightmare is flanked by big colourful ads for Google Chrome. :o)\r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2009-01-27 13:48:10'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: '@thomas yeah, the reply thing is the problem i''ve been noticing most. even
    composing emails. good thing i use other clients for most of my correspondence.
    also, i find switching to yahoo mail classic and back quicker than firing up a
    new browser, but it''s still a pain.'
  created: '2009-01-27 18:27:54'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "cause i use gmail i've had no email probs. \r\n\r\ni hadn't seen those wordpress
    bugs you mentioned either...\r\n\r\nmaybe i', just blind or lucky..."
  created: '2009-01-27 23:50:32'
date: '2008-09-04 14:38:24'
title: Google Chrome

---
