---
author:
  name: AndrewSipe
  picture: 109430
body: "I'm surprised this hasn't come up before, but typographically what are your
  favorite beer labels. There are so many hand scripted/lettered versions out there!
  \r\n\r\nPersonally, I like the Leinenkugel logo. [ http://www.leinie.com/av.html
  ]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1455993232_95269ae10a_4377.jpg]\r\n\r\nand
  \ [ http://www.schneider-weisse.de ] The Schneider and Sohn's Shneider Wiesse logo\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hefe3_4932.JPG]\r\n\r\nand
  not so much for taste, but for script skills: \r\n[ http://budweiser.com/ ] the
  Budweiser logo:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/budweiser_6713.gif]"
comments:
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/jlt/2826399454/\">Here's</a> a nice
    one in <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/underware/fakir_complete_package_ot/\">Fakir</a>
    from Typophile Joshua Lurie-Terrell.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/2826399454_fe66cb706a_o_5464.jpg]"
  created: '2008-09-06 07:17:30'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: <a href="http://re-type.com/notaweblog/?p=27">More from Ramiro Espinoza</a>
  created: '2008-09-06 07:18:57'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "That first one, Princles, is beautiful.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/esgrostica_5725.jpg]"
  created: '2008-09-06 07:25:29'
- author:
    name: Brieck
    picture: 115492
  body: "Grolsch\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/grolsch1_5861.png]"
  created: '2008-09-06 15:21:41'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Beer labels are like Major League Sports logos. Anything originating pre-1980
    is great.\r\n\r\nTo support a local example (maybe not so much for the type, but
    the overal label):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/HAMMS_5725.jpg]"
  created: '2008-09-06 18:09:08'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/papst_4629.jpg]\r\nLittlest Lou 'say's
    make mine a Pabst'"
  created: '2008-09-06 18:36:00'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/38515922_c187fb17c9_4842.jpg]\r\n\r\nthat's
    smokin'"
  created: '2008-09-06 18:36:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Great lettering, great beer, great glass:\r\nhttp://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4e/Kwak.jpg"
  created: '2008-09-07 03:03:36'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Most typographic - has to be \"Meta\" beer from Ethiopia...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.ethiopianrestaurant.com/meta_abo_brewery.html "
  created: '2008-09-07 04:33:23'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Hmm, I'm not sure that Meta wins the most typographic beer prize, Si\u2026
    I have two other contenders:\r\n\r\n1. Sch\xF6fferhofer Weizen. Here is just the
    logo. But the label uses a nice orange background with nice engraved lines, etc.
    Aside from the German blackletter coolness, this beer has a picture of Peter Sch\xF6fferhofer
    on it. Mr. Sch\xF6fferhofer apparently worked with Gutenberg in Mainz, and then
    helped take over the business. The Sch\xF6fferhofer family was involved in printing
    and typography from the beginning, and this is their beer. How do you beat that?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/schoefferhofer_logo_4748.jpg]\r\n\r\n2.
    Frankfurter. Sch\xF6fferhofer Weizen is brewed in Frankfurt am Main now, I believe.
    The Frankfurter beers comes from the other Frankfurt \u2013 Frankfurt an der Oder,
    which is on the German border with Poland. This beer doesn't use any of that traditional
    blackletter stuff, but rather Akira Kobayashi's Calcite.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fra_flasche_logo_4933.jpg]\r\n\r\nBoth
    of these images are from <a href=\"http://www.fontblog.de\">FontBlog.de</a>"
  created: '2008-09-07 11:37:51'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "this beer label thread doesn't count?\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/3545\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-07 11:55:34'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "This label isn't that extraordinary, but the taste...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Stella_Artois_can_and_bottle_3968.png]"
  created: '2008-09-07 14:53:30'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: 'Paul, sorry bout that. I thought I did a thorough google search for previous
    threads but I missed that one. Course that was 4 years ago... let''s consider
    this the follow-up.  '
  created: '2008-09-07 15:00:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Paul, this topic is always worth una mas!  :-)\r\n\r\nAnd any microfoundry
    looking for a visual identity would do\r\nwell to look at \"Labels of Distinction\"
    by Drate and Olejar.\r\n(More on that in that other thread.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-07 19:33:11'
- author:
    name: Andy Martin
    picture: 111412
  body: "I wish I had a photo of the inside of my local, it's brimming with some fantastic
    beer labels all over the walls and obviously some not so fantastic.\r\n\r\nI found
    this on the web a while ago, made from beer labels\r\n\r\nhttp://mazaika.tripod.com/grafika/dog_of_beer_big.jpg\r\n\r\nI
    love the ligature on this\r\n\r\nhttp://www.stpetersbrewery.co.uk/\r\n\r\nand
    some more\r\n\r\nhttp://www.eurobrews.com/wychwood.html\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-07 21:41:18'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Out of curiosity, could anyone suggest some particularly BAD beer labels?
    Redesigning them could at least make for some fun practice work, maybe a challenge.
  created: '2008-09-07 21:48:41'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em> Out of curiosity, could anyone suggest some particularly BAD beer labels?
    </em>\r\n\r\nI can't stand the C-o spacing on Corona Extra bottles, for what that's
    worth."
  created: '2008-09-07 21:55:59'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.fortunecity.com/marina/caribbean/468/gallery_e.htm\">Old
    Russian beer labels</a>\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/beerRus_4494.gif]"
  created: '2008-09-07 23:06:05'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I\u2019m surprised this hasn\u2019t come up before...\" \r\n\r\n\"this
    beer label thread doesn\u2019t count? http://typophile.com/node/3545\"\r\n\r\nIf
    dat treads 4 yrs old by now, it means we have a new generationette of beer drinking
    typophiles. \r\n\r\n\"Personally, I like the Leinenkugel logo.\"\r\n\r\nLeinies'
    de defending champ, inside and out, 'n I ain't seen nor tasted nothin' that's
    gonna change a beer that's older than Bilbo, in this new thread.\r\n\r\nGimme
    a 2-4...and a brat to wash it down. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-09-07 23:07:43'
- author:
    name: Fabio Augusto
    picture: 110374
  body: "From Brazil!!!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Colorado_4267.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nwww.fabioaugusto.net"
  created: '2008-09-08 03:16:10'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "Here's one of the more original Gonzo inspired Brewery logos:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FD-LogoSC(4c)_4666.jpg]"
  created: '2008-09-08 03:37:03'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Was lecturing in Michigan and found this at least 8 years ago.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Badfrog_6461.png]\r\n\r\nEdit:
    almost as funny as Arrogant Bastard Ale out of San Diego.\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-09-08 17:15:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Michael,\r\nThat Bad Frog is my kind of stuff :-)\r\n\r\nGotta find some
    somewhere!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-09-08 17:52:42'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/youngs_6336.jpg]'
  created: '2008-09-08 18:35:25'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Chris\r\n\r\nI think it is made in NY. They will not sell it here in central
    Virginia. Like I said I found it in Michigan. Sometimes when I am in Michigan
    I stay with an order of the Poor Sisters of St Clare of Saginaw. We are great
    friends and I have done work with them for many years, designing cards etc. It
    is always fun because I bring a different perspective to the cloister. After I
    had one in a pub  and told them about it they went out and found it in one of
    the ABC stores and sent me a six pack. They think I am a hoot and I always accuse
    them of wreaking Catholic Havoc on the Community.\r\n\r\nP.s. their ages are 56,
    60, 75 and Bernadoni (the elder) turned 90 this year : )\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-09-08 19:56:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Michael! I will Google them. If they don't sell it in Richmond, they
    won't sell it in Falls Church either :-)\r\n\r\nI'll bet you bring a different
    perspective to the cloister! I am sure the Sisters enjoy your good company.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-09-08 20:17:01'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Hey Chris\r\n\r\nI had to put this up. When I did this card for the Sisters
    they said that I should sell this to a distillery as a brand. The Sisters said
    it was a brand and a slogan that could be shouted after downing a pint!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Gloria_5330.png]\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-09-08 20:19:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL!!! it should read \"in excess this day, Oh!\" :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-09-08 20:23:31'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Very very creative. You got my giggle.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-09-08 20:25:15'
- author:
    name: "G\xFCnniGutenberg"
  body: "I love this one:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Quilmes-F6_5784.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/quilmesheladajpg24pl_3834.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nHere\u2019s
    a cool one from Germany, a low budget beer in Times and Helvetica - quite clever
    actually:\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/5original1_5735.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/5original2_3680.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nBut,
    being German, I\u2019d never touch a brew with a non-blackletter label."
  created: '2008-09-08 20:40:20'
- author:
    name: elizabeth_355
    picture: 112087
  body: http://www.tug.org/texshowcase/BarnstormingBitter.pdf
  created: '2008-09-08 20:52:26'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "G\xFCnther, I can attest to the surprising ok taste of the cheap Helvetica/Times
    beer. Fortunately, since I haven't been naturalized, I'm free to enjoy both with-
    and without-blackletter-labelled beers ;-) "
  created: '2008-09-08 20:59:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I love that Quilmes script, G\xFCnther!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-09-08 22:12:42'
- author:
    name: mp
    picture: 112034
  body: '[[http://baronsbrewing.com]]'
  created: '2008-09-09 08:56:30'
- author:
    name: Elias
  body: "Old Tuborg Export.\r\nMaybe not good, but still really good.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Societyfortypophile_5197.jpg]"
  created: '2008-09-09 09:39:01'
- author:
    name: Tobias_Goth
    picture: 115315
  body: "Not much of a beer when it comes to its taste but the label is.. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ng_3891.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nI
    love type!"
  created: '2008-09-09 10:14:42'
- author:
    name: fallenartist
    picture: 111868
  body: "I've always enjoyed Pilsner Urquell beer and label:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pilsner_3442.jpg]\r\n\r\nHere
    the wordmark isn't the best but I like the overall look (and it's made in my homeland!):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/zywiec_5530.jpg]\r\n\r\n________\r\n<a
    href=http://www.lenart.pl>AL</a> <a href=http://www.lenart.pl/news>\u25AA</a><a
    href=http://www.lenart.pl/work>\u25AA</a><a href=http://www.lenart.pl/about>\u25AA</a><a
    href=http://www.lenart.pl/contact>\u25AA</a>"
  created: '2008-09-09 10:18:36'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "Love and like the taste and looks of Rochefort ...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Rochefort_beers_1__big_5253.jpg]\r\n\r\n<cite>
    </cite>\r\n<cite>The brewery is located inside the Abbey of Notre-Dame de Saint-R\xE9my,
    near the town of Rochefort, and has been brewing beer since 1595. There are approximately
    15 monks resident at the monastery. As with all other trappist breweries, the
    beer is only sold in order to financially support the monastery and some other
    good causes. The monks will not increase production based on demand or profit
    motives, but only enough to support themselves, resulting in a fairly limited
    supply of beer availability.</cite>"
  created: '2008-09-09 10:59:59'
- author:
    name: Tobias_Goth
    picture: 115315
  body: "Somewhat an alternate style but I like it. Native of Sweden of course. :)
    Thirsty?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lundgrens_lager_large_4122.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
    love type!"
  created: '2008-09-09 13:13:30'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "DAMN! It is frustrating to read this over lunch on a busy day, with only
    a V-8 in front of me.\r\n\r\nCan someone send me a can of beer as an attachment?\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2008-09-09 18:10:33'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: "New Belgium, home of Fat Tire Amber. In Copperplate Bold, too!.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/new
    belgium brewery logo_5550.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-09 18:31:18'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: I love New Belgium, but their logo would be many times better if it was hand
    lettered or used a less common typeface. It only makes them look more run-of-the-mill.
  created: '2008-09-09 18:40:13'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "<cite>I love New Belgium, but their logo would be many times better if it
    was hand lettered or used a less common typeface. It only makes them look more
    run-of-the-mill.</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm on the East Coast, so I don't have access to
    New Belgium, but when I was in California, I had it a few times and really liked
    it. I also like the idea that they're a sustainable brewery and I think their
    logo should reflect that better. Copperplate doesn't scream \"Earth Friendly\"
    to me. Lundgren's above, does. "
  created: '2008-09-09 18:50:35'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: "You're right, Stephen, but I really like the label because it uses a font
    I'd normally find pretty ho-hum in a very effective way.\r\n\r\nI agree there
    are better reasons to like a label's type, but I thought I'd throw this one in
    the mix."
  created: '2008-09-09 18:51:09'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Soon enough hand-lettered will stop saying "eco-friendly" and "independent
    film" again. What comes around goes around.
  created: '2008-09-09 19:16:45'
- author:
    name: Rob Azarcon
    picture: 115185
  body: 'But isn''t it knee-jerk to execute earth friendly as hand lettered? I think
    at this point it''s a bit cliche to pair eco-friendly and hand lettered fonts,
    or that "naive" style like (lundren''s lager). '
  created: '2008-09-09 20:14:34'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Tiff - Oh but you can hand letter in any style. Even to the point of it not
    looking hand lettered. What I meant was <em>custom lettering</em> rather than
    type.
  created: '2008-09-09 20:19:33'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "less is more.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/beer_5957.jpg]"
  created: '2008-09-09 20:40:35'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Stephen I don't disagree with you at all. But, I was responding to Andrew.\r\n\r\n<em>But
    isn\u2019t it knee-jerk to execute earth friendly as hand lettered? </em>\r\n\r\nThat
    is what I was hinting at, yes."
  created: '2008-09-09 20:47:33'
- author:
    name: Patrick Witmer
    picture: 113461
  body: "Not the best as far as typography goes but still makes me chuckle.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bel-wasatch-polygamy-porter_4711.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nAnd
    one I have always liked the design of the label for:\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/usa-rogue-dead-guy-ale_6558.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\np@rick\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-09 21:16:29'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "Well, considering the current flair for \"GREEN\" design, it's probably quite
    cliche to expect a sustainable brewery to follow the trends of hand-lettering
    to symbolize that they're eco-friendly, blah blah blah...\r\n\r\nI was just remarking
    that I don't associate Copperplate with that whole \"Green\" motion.\r\n\r\nI
    do like the New Belgium logo, and the type selection does work well. They must
    be doing something right because I wish I had more access to their beers. I've
    even commented directly to them about getting more of their beer in PA. They said
    that because the distribution distance is so great, they couldn't justify shipping
    that far. It goes back to their earth-friendly approach and desire to reduce their
    impact on non-replenished fuels. I guess I'll have to wait until their are more
    electric freight trucks on the road till I can have a cold New Belgium in PA."
  created: '2008-09-09 21:45:55'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "\"Soon enough hand-lettered will stop saying \u201Ceco-friendly\u201D and
    \u201Cindependent film\u201D again. What comes around goes around.\"\r\n\r\nMiss
    Tiffany, are you speaking of naive forms or refined lettering solutions. Better
    yet, what are the perceived differences between the two? Is not suitability the
    discerning factor? Should I start a new thread or are my questions stupid?\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-09-09 22:29:18'
- author:
    name: jayyy
    picture: 109661
  body: "Two of my favorites:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Czechvar_Logo_4480.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/carlsberg_5434.jpg]"
  created: '2008-09-10 01:54:01'
- author:
    name: Lantz
    picture: 115246
  body: "Jayyy, you beat me to the punch with the Carlsberg, clearly one of the best.\r\n\r\nAnd
    who can forget Generic beer?\r\n\r\nHere's mine... it's got chutzpah, even if
    the layout is a bit confused.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/RIPA_LABEL_5536.jpg]"
  created: '2008-09-10 05:34:09'
- author:
    name: JeffPeppers
    picture: 129498
  body: "Maybe it's more the logo than the brand or hand type. (white ale)\r\nIt's
    immediately memorable.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hitachino-nest_4364.jpg]"
  created: '2008-09-10 07:24:10'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "One of the nicest Finnish ones:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/kukko_3790.jpg]\r\n\r\nand
    two other popular ones:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/KOFF_logo_red_5440.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Karhu-olut_5764.jpg]"
  created: '2008-09-10 14:10:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Mili, send one of those over, any beer with such good taste in labels surly
    must be good tasting!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-09-10 15:15:35'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "Here is a Portuguese beer label.\r\nNot the most popular beer but with a
    nice label!\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Tagus_carica_5988.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1654_4846.jpg]"
  created: '2008-09-10 18:14:16'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "<em>Miss Tiffany, are you speaking of naive forms or refined lettering solutions.</em>\r\n\r\nToday
    the OT tech is so advanced that we can be tricked. But I'm speaking of the fa\xE7ade,
    so perhaps refined lettering solutions. I'm generalizing, of course, as there
    are honest and appropriate reasons for using this style of typeface/lettering.
    I'm mostly bored with it becoming a go to sort of way to achieve a look without
    really considering if it is the best and/or most appropriate answer for the problem
    at hand. So I do agree with your second statement.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-10 18:25:15'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "I guess what I am asking is how can hand lettering speak to eco-friendly.
    Sure you can use naive (or rather ill-informed letters) to suggest \"I am green\"
    but that is a graphic ruse that has been perpetrated for many many decades. You
    can also bore potential consumers with minimalist \"Less is better\" (see above)
    and say the same thing. It is the whole generic brand fad. As to it looking elegant
    or rough around the edges, it is a \"product of the product.\" It is not green
    or sheen, just job specific.\r\n\r\nI guess I am surprised by some of the comments
    about lettering. It is almost as if it is thought that lettering is a flash in
    the pan. Nick even said something the other day about the script \"fad.\" Scripts
    have been being produced one after another, AND applied to product, since I have
    been at this, several decades. I have always perceived what we lettering artists
    do is enhance the \"product\" when nothing else will do. \r\n\r\nNo argument from
    my side just pure curiosity as it affects what I (and others) do and how lettering
    is perceived by people of \"the tangential letter mind.\"\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-09-10 20:29:34'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Ah. Ok, first while I do agree there is a huge \"fad\" right now with script
    fonts, I don't think it will die out, but mutate into new styles.\r\n\r\nSecond
    I didn't mean to say that lettering is a flash in the pan. Not at all. What I
    do think is there happens to be a lot of people using na\xEFve looking fonts/typefaces/lettering
    on indie films and products where they are trying to convince us that it has been
    hand-held (cared for?) from the beginning. As if to say the slicker it is somehow
    the less authentic it is. Does that make sense? Maybe we should start a new thread."
  created: '2008-09-10 23:17:59'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "Considering the hand-crafted nature of beer, a signature script seems most
    appropriate. I agree with Tiffany, standard out of the box fonts, just don't seem
    right on a label. They need a touch of character. \r\n\r\nIt's like setting wedding
    invitations with Times New Roman on a word processor. Just doesn't have that extra
    care and diligence that makes me think there was some actual thought and talent
    put into it. "
  created: '2008-09-11 00:08:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I don't think beer labels have to be script or hand lettered. A good graphic
    designer can easily make type work.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-09-11 00:55:30'
- author:
    name: RAWTYPE
    picture: 109949
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mos0516_5079.jpg]\r\n\r\nas of me this
    is interesting \r\n\r\nand hear many more if interest is\r\nwww.nubo.ru/pavel_egorov/new98.html"
  created: '2008-09-11 02:05:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/beer_bottle_6413.jpg]\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-11 03:43:07'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Is that my mouse pad? Nice improvisation Chris. Can one get warts from handling
    the bottle?\r\n\r\nMiss Tiffany, it does make sense. It was just difficult bouncing
    between the posts and putting it together in my brain in a cohesive fashion.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-09-11 11:59:12'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Here you are, Chris!\r\n\r\nHope you won't be disappointed, they're all pretty
    basic lager.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lapinkulta_6157.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
    like your Froggy bottle btw, you should get it into production.\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-11 17:56:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks, Mili! Now I have a fine foam mustache! :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-09-11 18:01:40'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Am I speaking a foreign language? :^P\r\n\r\nI think fonts can be used just
    as well as lettering. It is the designer who has to make the correct decisions
    and understand how best to get to the final solution. "
  created: '2008-09-11 20:14:51'
- author:
    name: ZUZ3L
    picture: 115403
  body: "This is just soo funny - not great typography... :-)\r\n\r\nIt's a Danish
    brewer called \xD8lfabrikken (Beerfactory) ... On the label it says: \"Because
    life is too short to crap-beer\" :-)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/closeup_4653.JPG]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pilsner_dase_4309.png]\r\n\r\nOn
    the top of their website (http://oelfabrikken.dk/hvad/faste-bryg/) you can see
    what graphics they use on ther beer can... Unfortunally I only have theese small
    photos and closeups..."
  created: '2008-09-11 20:43:13'
- author:
    name: rob keller
    picture: 109886
  body: "I have been admiring all the great labels here in Germany for some time now...
    Here is a small variety from my collection:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/beers-1_5287.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/beers-2_6114.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/beers-3_5702.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/beers-6_6429.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/beers-5_5746.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/beers-4_3544.jpg]\r\n(Sch\xF6fferhofer
    Weizen as Dan mentioned earlier)\r\n\r\n\r\nFor a more international bonus: Cobra
    rocking some funky Devanagari :)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/beers-7_3600.jpg]"
  created: '2008-09-11 20:54:44'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Cobra is easy to find in Reading. The bottle is nice, too\u2026 not just
    the label. It has Hindi text on it that you can feel with your fingers and hands,
    adding one more sensory pleasure to the drinking experience."
  created: '2008-09-11 23:27:08'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: <a href="http://www.flickr.com/search/?s=int&ss=2&ct=6&w=23806189%40N00&q=beer+label&m=tags">Some
    of my favorite German labels (and one Mexican)</a>
  created: '2008-09-12 07:23:39'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "How bout this one,\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/piswasser_6640.jpg]"
  created: '2008-09-12 20:01:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL!!!\r\nis that for real?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-09-12 20:30:05'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "<cite>is that for real?</cite>\r\n\r\nOf course it is, it's my favorite beer!
    \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nI'm just kidding. It's actually a marketing gimmick from Grand
    Theft Auto IV. \r\nhttp://blog.wired.com/games/2008/04/gta-ivs-amazing.html"
  created: '2008-09-12 21:00:17'
- author:
    name: TheMark
    picture: 109832
  body: "Dezcom... your cheating with that Froggy thing.. isnt that your own typeface?
    ;o)\r\n\r\nMark\r\n\r\nCarlsberg is the best!\r\n\r\nCheers mates"
  created: '2008-10-12 18:12:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Yes, Mark, I must admit, that is my own typeface. I couldn't help but cheating;-(
    it was all because of my troubled childhood... abandoned by an orphanage...picked
    on in school...ridiculed for being bald...rejected by tall women for being short...life
    of poverty... grew up drinking Iron City Beer\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-10-12 22:04:40'
- author:
    name: TheMark
    picture: 109832
  body: "Hahahahah Chris, that funny! I do like your typeface though!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-13 09:45:21'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: Haven't tried this, but love the type...[img:sites/default/files/old-images/epic6pack_5251.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/epiccase_3983.jpg]
  created: '2008-10-13 14:26:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Mark!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-10-13 15:43:57'
- author:
    name: uppercaseH
    picture: 115755
  body: "I'd like to promote Steel Reserve here, one of America's cheapest beers.
    It tastes pretty rough* but it's got a great can! I got intimately familiar with
    the Reserve in my early college years after we figured out it was better tasting,
    stronger, and cheaper than most malt liquors. That's right.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/steelweb_wallpaper_0640_3769.jpg]\r\n\r\n*In
    fact, it tastes pretty close to awful."
  created: '2008-10-15 19:32:23'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: That's good to know. I almost bought some the other day, based on the design,
    but had second thoughts since it was down next to all those other big brewery
    beers.
  created: '2008-10-15 21:13:15'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Epic is associated quite a bit with fail nowadays. I'd think Epic isn't such
    a good name for a beer.
  created: '2008-10-15 22:15:40'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "<cite>Epic is associated quite a bit with fail nowadays. </cite>\r\n\r\nTrue,
    but Epic still stands for gigantic, humongous, extremely proportioned... Which
    could equal good or bad for this beer. Having never tasted it, I can't say if
    it's a true FAIL on a massive scale or not. \r\n\r\nBut for the requirements of
    this post, I think it does well. Me likey type. "
  created: '2008-10-16 00:46:04'
- author:
    name: Wesley.Bancroft
    picture: 112463
  body: "Here are some brutally honest beer labels I did awhile ago for a blog. I
    showed them to some people and they didn't even notice that the words were changed.
    Pretty close to the originals I guess.\r\n\r\nhttp://tinyurl.com/bw4yhb\r\n\r\nEnjoy...
    I think they are better with a few beers in you.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-14 20:16:58'
- author:
    name: _Luca_
    picture: 112856
  body: "Baltimore local! -\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/09_National_Bohemian_logo_5347.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/nationalbohemian2_3448.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nShiner
    Hefeweizen - such great packaging, labels and type.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/shiner_hefe_4602.png]"
  created: '2009-12-14 20:21:09'
- author:
    name: shelton410
    picture: 113732
  body: "Brooklyn Brewery, designed, I believe, by Milton Glaser\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/03-11-2009_6297.NGD_11BrooklynBeer.G7L2J6DQL.1.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/brooklyn-brewery-labels1_6236.jpg]"
  created: '2009-12-14 20:21:38'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/stiegl_4682.jpg]'
  created: '2009-12-14 21:21:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Wow.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-14 21:23:03'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Wow indeed. That may be my favorite on the page.\r\n\r\nHere's a few from
    <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/stewf/tags/beer/\">my collection</a>.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/305530276_160b269d52_3599.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/305530168_7d73ef309d_6686.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/305529918_69a6fdf3d4_5336.jpg]"
  created: '2009-12-14 21:56:55'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Not the best japanese beer for my taste, but a remarkable typographic label:\r\nhttp://www.mountfuji.co.uk/acatalog/4101-case.jpg"
  created: '2009-12-14 23:19:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You don't like Asahi Extra Dry with your sushi?!\r\nThat's a killer match-up
    for me.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-14 23:34:39'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Btw, this one was designed by Akira Kobayashi and Matthew Carter:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/suntory_4942.jpg]\r\n\r\nThe
    Suntory logotype doesn't look very \"beerish\" but that's because the company
    does everything from water and tea to beer and whisky."
  created: '2009-12-15 08:42:38'
- author:
    name: wasianed
    picture: 113592
  body: "That\u2019s what I call a great topic!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Villacher-Logo_5560.jpg]\r\n\r\nHere
    is also some vintage beer action:\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/wasianed/sets/72157623004871988/"
  created: '2009-12-15 10:14:34'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>You don\u2019t like Asahi Extra Dry with your sushi?!</cite>\r\n\r\nActually
    I prefer the rounder taste of Sapporo (which, while not so memorable as logos
    go, had one wonderful mug-shaped can):\r\nhttp://gregorysiegal.com/gregarious/?p=43"
  created: '2009-12-15 11:09:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sapporo's can is indeed both beautiful and functional: less vertical slippage!\r\nBTW,
    Suntory used to have my favorite can: shaped like a beer barrel!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-15 14:58:01'
- author:
    name: slowwait
    picture: 119847
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Luckybeer_3790.jpg]'
  created: '2010-04-28 16:00:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Sleeman clear (with Beaufort font):[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Sleeman_3786.png]
  created: '2010-04-28 17:39:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Tongue firmly in cheek for this Boulder one :-)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/schwartsbier-glass_4619.jpg]"
  created: '2010-04-28 18:34:48'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Here's a couple I did. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/beer1_5407.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/beer2_5216.jpg]\r\n\r\nThe
    \"Shiner\" above is great.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2010-04-29 09:31:57'
- author:
    name: Ramiro Espinoza
    picture: 110426
  body: http://re-type.com/notaweblog/?p=27
  created: '2010-04-29 10:01:04'
- author:
    name: mutaneous
  body: 'Well I stumbled upon this posting while doing research for a friend''s beer
    label that i''m designing. Here is my favorite: [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Anchor_Porter_6177.jpg]'
  created: '2010-09-20 00:01:57'
- author:
    name: mpkiser
  body: "The first version of Goose island's Matilda line was gorgeous. The type covered
    the secondary packaging as well. Eventually they pulled back and simplified though.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/19637_5065.jpeg]"
  created: '2011-03-09 18:07:01'
- author:
    name: fontdesigner2
  body: "Kona beer has a great design company working for them. Always have. It's
    always been an inspiration to me. Their color palettes are genius too.\r\n\r\nOne
    thing I would like to see them do though, is create custom type, instead of just
    using the Lithos font. The label below is one of their best because the type looks
    pretty original and doesn't use the now common looking Lithos font that most of
    their labels use.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.konabrewingco.com/beers[img:sites/default/files/old-images/3221646920_c118872868_5400.jpg]"
  created: '2011-03-19 07:17:31'
- author:
    name: Birdseeding
    picture: 121722
  body: "Quite fond of the bottles of new(ish) swedish microbrewery Sigtuna Brygghus,
    especially their specialty hops \"Mohawk vs\" beers:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/schnille_6580.se_mohawk_vs_golding_amarillo_1.jpg]"
  created: '2011-03-19 16:47:35'
- author:
    name: PJay
    picture: 109541
  body: "Label-wise, it's St. Pauli Girl.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/stpauligirl_3926.png]"
  created: '2011-03-19 22:13:22'
- author:
    name: PJay
    picture: 109541
  body: "Whoops\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-19 22:14:15'
- author:
    name: fontdesigner2
  body: I think some of the people posting here are going by their tastebuds and not
    their eyeballs.
  created: '2011-03-20 02:54:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Except tastebuds doesn't explain the St. Pauli Girl choice either...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-20 03:29:03'
- author:
    name: PJay
    picture: 109541
  body: 'Re: St.Pauli girl. True about taste. And maybe the typeface itself isn''t
    very distinguished, but I said label-wise, meaning the whole design, which is
    not overwrought, but nicely composed with one key color in each case, and has
    great movement - a cheerful effervescence, you might say.'
  created: '2011-03-20 18:00:22'
- author:
    name: Patrick Witmer
    picture: 113461
  body: "The 10 Fold Collective redesigned the entire line of one of our local microbrews,
    I think they did an amazing job.\r\n\r\n[[http://www.tenfoldcollective.com/blog/uinta-label-redesign-recap|Link
    to the Goods]]"
  created: '2011-12-07 17:44:02'
date: '2008-09-06 06:00:47'
node_type: forum
title: Best Typographic Beer Labels

---
