---
author:
  name: henrypijames
  picture: 112537
body: Anyone has any insider info on what's new in the upcoming InDesign CS4?
comments:
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Soon.
  created: '2008-09-09 00:16:38'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: I was recently on a flight one aisle back and across from someone (apparently
    an Adobe employee) who had a PDF open with the title Creative Suite 4 Pricing
    Structure. Sadly the rest of the type was too small (and rendered by PDF reader)
    so I couldn't read it. Sorry :-(
  created: '2008-09-09 00:21:48'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Lots of info, but not willing to get fired to tell you about it.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    if you wait 15 days....\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-09-09 05:56:51'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Oh no, another upgrade yet?\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2008-09-10 00:19:27'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Torture.\r\n\r\nAll ideas, theories and statements are subject to change
    without notice."
  created: '2008-09-10 00:32:31'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "I just bought Photoshop last month and now you want more money from me Thomas?\r\n\r\nEdit:
    Sorry, saw the CS4 and thought it was all programs!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-09-10 00:41:02'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I\u2019m chomping at the bit for this one. The last iterations of Photoshop
    and Illustrator I\u2019m still angry about, but Indesign just keeps getting better!"
  created: '2008-09-10 01:24:06'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Michael:\r\n\r\nCreative Suite 4 *is* all programs. At least, all the Creative
    Suite programs. InDesign CS4 will get announced and presumably shipped at the
    same time as the rest. It's just that the original poster was particularly interested
    in InDesign.\r\n\r\nAlso, if you want to give the money to me personally, feel
    free. But I expect you'll give it to some retailer.  :)\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-09-10 03:56:14'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> I just bought Photoshop last month\r\n\r\nMichael, I  think the release
    should happen somewhere between December 2008 & April 2009; I think :) \r\n\r\n\r\nThomas,
    What about Photoshop (Mac)? For now only a 32bit version?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-10 03:58:31'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "@David: That's what Photoshop product manager John Nack has said on his blog.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-09-10 06:11:42'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: Well, it seems to me the new features of ID CS4 are pretty much all workflow
    related -- useful for medium to large publishing units but not so much for small
    desktop publishers. In there anything new at all in the area of typography?
  created: '2008-09-23 19:05:35'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: These new big-workflow features of CS4 are pretty impressive, especially compared
    to what we got in CS2 and CS3. But what I really want to see are lists of bugfixes
    for the Mac versions of Photoshop and Illustrator!
  created: '2008-09-23 19:29:44'
- author:
    name: Ale Paul
    picture: 110500
  body: crossing fingers to see Glyph palette everywhere....
  created: '2008-09-23 20:59:54'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>crossing fingers to see Glyph palette everywhere....</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd
    global kerns!"
  created: '2008-09-23 21:14:34'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>Glyph palette everywhere....\r\nAnd global kerns!</em>\r\n\r\nIt still
    didn't happen this time around :^(((\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-23 21:30:56'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">> Glyph palette everywhere....\r\n\r\n>It still didn\u2019t happen this
    time around :^(((\r\n\r\nMr Nack is treating us all like a 7yr old child constantly
    asking him for a pony - he can afford to buy us the pony but he finds our complaints
    entertaining. So no pony! Wah!"
  created: '2008-09-23 22:47:42'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "What\u2019s new in the upcoming InDesign CS5?  :^)"
  created: '2008-09-24 01:28:11'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "They are trying to beat down big Quark plataforms on newspapers and publishing
    houses.\r\n\r\nI would only like being able to paste directly from illustrator
    to indesign without funky shit happening on my drawings.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2008-09-24 04:07:58'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<em>I would only like being able to paste directly from illustrator to indesign
    without funky shit happening on my drawings.</em>\r\n\r\nYeah, the stupid groups
    and clipping paths that happen when pasting between the two are pretty horrible.
    Not to mention what happens when I try pasting text back and forth\u2026 Maybe
    I\u2019ll write up a feature request in the morning. Hell, I\u2019ll just keep
    focusing on my dream of being a type designer so that one day I don\u2019t have
    a reason to paste anything between CS apps."
  created: '2008-09-24 04:38:01'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "> What\u2019s new in the upcoming InDesign CS5? :^)\r\n\r\nCS5 apps have
    actually been a focus of my attention for months now. Honestly.\r\n\r\nSo I have
    kind of a weird time horizon relative to non Adobe people, having been working
    on the stuff for the version *after* the version that was not yet been announced...
    it gets kind of surreal, actually.\r\n\r\nThere is one significant unannounced
    thing in CS4, though, on the international side. I'm trying to figure out the
    best way and timing to talk about it.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-09-24 05:12:47'
- author:
    name: fi
    picture: 113733
  body: such teases
  created: '2008-09-24 20:26:43'
- author:
    name: emenninga
  body: "Here are some text-related items that are in CS4. I was told this morning
    that due to the announcement, we are allowed to go public with this kind of information.
    This list contains some trivial & some larger features. I have definitely forgot
    some. Also, I will discuss the large feature the Thomas is hinting about in the
    build forum.\r\n \r\n* Automatically & dynamically format text matching GREP expressions
    with character styles. (An extension of Nested Styles.)\r\n* Automatically apply
    character styles to lines -- like: Apply \"smallcap style\" to first 2 lines of
    the paragraph.\r\n* Text cross-references (cross document & single document)\r\n*
    Conditional text\r\n* Stroke join & miter for outlined text\r\n* Automatic addition/deletion
    of pages when frames go overset / empty.\r\n\r\netc.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-25 18:56:13'
- author:
    name: bemerx25
    picture: 112539
  body: "Applying character styles to specific lines of text? That sounds very nice
    - definitely seeing that being extremely useful.\r\n\r\nBut it appears that the
    universe will cease to exist about the time Photoshop gets a glyph palette...
    /jk"
  created: '2008-09-25 19:05:40'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Info on fonts bundled with CS4:\r\nhttp://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/2008/09/cs4_fonts.html\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-09-26 01:54:25'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Thanks a lot, Thomas!\r\n\r\n<cite>the CS4 font list looks a lot like CS3</cite>\r\n\r\nWell,
    I guess that\u2019s good news for those who don\u2019t have CS3 \u2026 \r\n\r\n<cite>a
    new registration inventive: the complete Sanvito Pro family</cite>\r\n\r\nDefinitely
    a beauty! Though: Myself, I would have preferred a Hypatia Sans Italic."
  created: '2008-09-26 07:08:42'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "-- <cite>And global kerns!</cite>\r\n-- <cite>It still didn\u2019t happen
    this time around :^(((</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's sad."
  created: '2008-09-26 10:12:19'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "We thought about making the reg incentive the complete Hypatia Sans family,
    including the italics. But our consensus was that this would not have a strong
    appeal to most folks who got CS3, that they wouldn't see the italics as a big
    bonus.\r\n\r\nI have now fixed my typo in my blog post (\"inventive\" > \"incentive\").
    Oops.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-09-26 18:25:44'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite> fixed my typo</cite>\r\nDidn\u2019t even notice. Sorry for quoting
    it. ;-)"
  created: '2008-09-26 18:59:02'
- author:
    name: RahimSnow
    picture: 114570
  body: "Thomas: Thanks for the information.  What about offering a choice upon registration?\r\n\r\n1.
    Arno Pro\r\n2. Hypatia Sans Pro\r\n3. Sanvito Pro\r\n4. Warnock Pro\r\n5. Brioso
    Pro\r\n\r\netc...\r\n\r\nIt would be good to think about those for whom CS4 might
    be a first purchase, not just about those who already had CS2 and then upgraded
    to CS3 and now will be upgrading to CS4.  \r\n\r\nI'm quite surprised Arno Pro
    is not being included in CS4, especially since it's such a beauty.\r\n\r\nRahim\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-26 21:11:01'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Folks already have a choice of registration incentives, but a typeface is
    just one of many choices. It's a little late to change this now - the registration
    incentives are finalized many months in advance.\r\n\r\nArno was a one-time bonus,
    as we've done with several new typefaces before it.\r\n\r\nHowever, folks who
    *really* want one of the other typefaces can always license them separately! Hypatia
    Sans should be ready \"early next year\" with the italics.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-09-26 22:52:32'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Was anyone else surprised to see that Adobe still hasn\u2019t dropped version
    cue? I really want a version of Creative Suite with no Version Cue and a lower
    price."
  created: '2008-09-27 01:50:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Is there any difference in opentype support? Mostly, both one to many and
    many to one substitution?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-09-27 03:54:11'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Still no global kerns? Oh man!!!
  created: '2008-09-27 05:41:02'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: OK, I'll bite. What's a global kern? Like changing a sidebearing?
  created: '2008-09-27 14:26:01'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Sort of. But only for certain letter pairings. Like: you find the \u2018Ta\u2019
    combination in your font \u2018overkerned\u2019, i.e. too narrow. Plus, you don\u2019t
    have a font editor at hand (or don\u2019t want to/can\u2019t fix the font itself,
    for whatever reason). In such a scenario (which happens all the time), it would
    be great <em>not</em> having to go through the doc and fix those instances by
    tinkering around with local kerns, character styles or white-space."
  created: '2008-09-27 14:53:43'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Quark has \"kerning tables\" which allow you to adjust the kerning in poorly
    kerned fonts. You do it once and the pairs stay kerned both throughout the document
    and whenever you use the font (in Quark). InDesign has no such feature, so that
    you have to manually kern the same pairs every time you use them. Obviously this
    is not a problem in fonts that are well kerned, but unfortunately they are not
    all so. I had hoped Adobe would put this feature into this upgrade. As Thomas
    explained it, the reason the feature hasn't been incorporated yet is that they
    want to make sure it works across all the CS applications. I argue that Illustrator
    and P-shop are not typesetting/layout programs to begin with, and that this feature
    would matter most to users of InDesign.\r\n\r\nTo me, while overall I prefer InDesign,
    this is really a glaring oversight. See this thread:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/7608\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-27 18:20:04'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>Is there any difference in opentype support?</em>\r\n\r\nIn terms of
    features and lookuptypes supported there is no difference, AFAIK.\r\n\r\n> <em>Mostly,
    both one to many and many to one substitution?</em>\r\n\r\nMany-to-one (a.k.a
    GSUB LookupType 4) has been supported since the beginning. That's how you get
    ligatures, for example.\r\nOne-to-many (a.k.a GSUB LookupType 2) is not yet supported.
    On the other hand, the upcoming AFDKO will support this looktype for the first
    time."
  created: '2008-09-28 01:18:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks, Miguel!\r\n\r\nLooks like nothing worth the upgrade fee for me at
    least.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-09-28 04:42:11'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Dez, I upgrade every time so I don''t have to pay extra to jump a version. '
  created: '2008-09-29 21:47:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "But does the cost of 2 upgrades come out to less than one upgrade plus version
    \"jump\"?\r\nI guess I am, against all odds, hoping that a few folks who don't
    upgrade because there are no typographic upgrades in the CS4 will give Adobe a
    hint that type is important too. I just hate rewarding the CS Suite division for
    ignoring long needed improvements in typography. No glyph palette in Photoshop
    is pathetically inexcusable. Why should I pay them for ignoring us? I know I am
    whizzing into the wind by thinking my non-upgrade will make a bit of difference
    to the MBAs who make the decisions. They see us as small potatoes. Adobe has gone
    from a company who were passionate about their products and customers to being
    just another big corporate bureaucracy just lost in boardroom humdrum and out
    of touch with what made them successful to begin with. Warnock actually gave a
    damn and gave Adobe a soul. Now, all it has is a balance sheet.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-09-29 22:17:19'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: I'm planning to skip this one unless I need it to work with a client. Some
    of the features would be a little useful, but the only one I can see being $399
    (difference between upgrading twice and once with version jump) worth of useful
    is the ability to handle complex scripts like Arabic without the ME version, and
    from what Eric and Thomas said in the other thread, it doesn't really sound all
    that ready for use yet. Though if somebody gives me a book to set that has hundreds
    of cross-references and an author that keeps changing stuff around, that might
    convince me to cough up the money :)
  created: '2008-09-30 00:46:32'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "@Thomas:\r\n\r\nI think I now know what the \"one significant unannounced
    thing [...] on the international side\" is that you were talking about: support
    for the OpenType feature of automatically converting between simplified and traditional
    Chinese.\r\n\r\nHonestly, I didn't even know this cool feature (and many more
    regarding CJK scripts, it seems) exists in the OT spec. Do you know when it was
    introduced? Any way, this feature is certainly very useful, and as someone who's
    highly interested in CJK typography, I know it's a quite significant advancement
    from the technical point of view, too.\r\n\r\nCan you tell us what other OT features
    are implemented for the first time in ID CS4? And what, in your opinion, is the
    most important CJK OT feature that hasn't been implemented yet?"
  created: '2008-10-18 11:57:11'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Actually, the \"locale\" ('locl') feature is already supported in InDesign
    CS3.\r\n\r\nI was referring to some complex script stuff that is NOT officially
    supported, as discussed in another typophile thread on Indic support in CS4.\r\n\r\nAlso
    new:\r\n\r\n- Flash Player 10 support for quite a few OpenType features. Nothing
    new in Flash Pro CS4 as far as I know.\r\n\r\n- previewed last year and being
    shown in depth at MAX next month: a coming ActionScript text library component
    that supports lots of OpenType and other text goodness in Flash, including major
    world languages (Arabic, Hebrew, Indic/Dravidian languages, etc.). This builds
    on the new capabilities of Flash Player 10.\r\n\r\n- Fireworks CS4 ability to
    paste in Illustrator and Photoshop text with OT features applied and retain them
    with apporpriate glyphs, as live text.\r\n\r\nI am particularly excited about
    the Flash stuff, though the Fireworks bit is pretty nice.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-10-21 08:23:17'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "\"locl\" is supported in ID CS3? Do you mean supported internally by the
    typographic engine or actually accessible to the users? If the latter: where?\r\n\r\nAlso,
    it seems I can't find this other thread you're talking about. Can you point it
    out to me, please?\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-21 14:47:21'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "As I have understood it, the <a href=\"http://www.houseind.com/index.php?page=showfont&id=665&subpage=studio_how_lang\">culture-specific
    character sets</a> in Studio Lettering by [[House Industries]] are triggered by
    the locl feature. That is, you can access them in ID CS3 by assigning a language.\r\n\r\nThis
    is <a href=\"http://talleming.com/2008/07/08/studio-lettering/\">what Tal Leming
    says</a> about the code involved (the culture-specific alternates represent only
    a fractional amount):\r\n<cite>We really crashed into the edge of the OpenType
    universe and I have the scars to prove it.</cite>\r\n\r\nI reckon the other thread
    is this one: <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/49832\">Does Indesign CS4
    support Indic scripts?</a>"
  created: '2008-10-21 15:16:31'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: First, the English version of ID CS3 doesn't even provide "Chinese" (let alone
    variants of it) as an language option. Second, script is -- at least partially
    -- independent of language.
  created: '2008-10-21 17:55:46'
- author:
    name: David W. Goodrich
  body: Chinese Traditional, Japanese, and Korean are available as options for "Language"
    in an English ID5 file that actually contains characters for all three; I imagine
    I'd get Chinese Simplified if I added something in an appropriate font.  If I
    open a brand new ID5 file, I get lots of other options, but no CJK.  I'd like
    to see a language "pinyin" so that pinyin romanization would hyphenate properly
    without manual intervention.
  created: '2008-10-21 21:06:55'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: Sorry, I don't get any CJK language option in any ID5 file -- no matter if
    there is already CJK text in it or not.
  created: '2008-10-21 23:49:04'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: Are there education discounts for upgrades? I don't see any upgrade options
    in the education store.
  created: '2008-10-22 01:24:07'
- author:
    name: David W. Goodrich
  body: "Well I'll be blowed.  If I use Vista's PRC Chinese IME to type Chinese into
    a new English-language ID5 file, I do not get the Chinese Simplified language
    attribute.  I assume English ID5 handles typed Chinese Trad., Japanese and Korean
    similarly.  So where did I get the CJK language attributes I've been putting in
    character styles for all three languages all these years?  The attributes come
    in with MS Word files, either via \"place\" or pasting from the clipboard: so
    long as I don't have ID strip text attributes, Word's language attributes are
    among those that survive transfer.  Thus ID5 may not \"provide\" the Chinese attribute,
    but I didn't notice.  I can use CJK attributes in English-language ID, and that's
    what matters to me.\r\n\r\nCome to think of it, perhaps it's just as well Adobe
    doesn't provide the attributes.  I always warn friends not to install the CJK
    input methods unless they really want to use them because it is surprisingly easy
    to think your keyboard has gone into the ozone when all you've done is accidentally
    hit the key combination turning on Chinese input."
  created: '2008-10-22 02:43:45'
- author:
    name: chazglen
    picture: 116025
  body: "I'll tell you one thing !!! EYE HATE !!!  about InDesign: The ridiculous
    outline type icon which always seems to be the one on top whenever I want to color
    text.  I mean seriously...  how frequently do we use it??? We should be able to
    store it in the attic in mothballs... like a letter sweater that doesn't fit anymore.\r\n\r\n-Charlie"
  created: '2008-10-22 03:40:37'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "I second that remark by Charlie \u2014 it must have happened a million times
    to me that I outlined text instead of colouring it. Bwah!\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert
    Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2008-10-22 11:41:23'
- author:
    name: Chiba Chiba
    picture: 112595
  body: "Actually I think that having to select any kind of buttom to colour text
    in kind of stupid. Why not have it work simple and direct?\r\nDoes people use
    that so that they don't need to draw colored boxes underneath it when's the case?
    I never figured that one out.\r\n\r\nAnd not having a pulldown menu that changes
    units in the main window as freehand did. That is very usefull.\r\n\r\nFrederico"
  created: '2008-10-22 13:02:33'
- author:
    name: iffy
    picture: 113881
  body: I agree Charlie. I feel like it takes me three tries to get it right every
    time. Beyond annoying.
  created: '2008-10-22 14:28:19'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: 'Can we expect that CS4 or CS5 will finally drop the use of RGB colour space
    as the default in InDesign? I have never gotten why it''s that way to begin with,
    and it''s frustrating since none of the other apps do that (that i know of). '
  created: '2008-10-22 16:20:41'
date: '2008-09-08 23:50:10'
title: InDesign CS4?

---
