---
author:
  name: gohebrew
  picture: 112525
body: "In general, a set of typeface editing software programs are used to create
  a well-crafted professional-quality Biblical Hebrew typeface which fully supports
  the rich features of diacritic placement in the popular standard Microsoft/Adobe
  font format.\r\n\r\nOne program tool in particular is essential to create an \"intelligent\"
  or \"smart\" OpenType Biblical Hebrew font. That is \"Microsoft VOLT\". Although
  the user interface is graphical, and after one learns how to navigate it, is rather
  easy, it appears to be complex, difficult to understand, and user-unfriendly. Only
  a team of Microsoft programmers could have made it.\r\n\r\nIf Apple engineers would
  have created \"Apple VOLT\", every two-bit self-proclaimed type designer would be
  knocking out hundreds of passable OpenType fonts, ruining it for the rest of us.
  It's in our best interests that the wizard hides behind the curtain, if you know
  what I mean.\r\n\r\nUntil Apple gets back at Microsoft and Adobe, and creates a
  new font format, called \"SuperType\" (like TrueType was Apple and Microsoft's way
  to screw Adobe and PostScript [did John Warnock really cry, \"Now, everything Getchke
  and I planned for PostScript is ruined!\"] - ah, remember when Apple didn't have
  Steve Jobs?), let us explore why Biblical Hebrew is best suited for OpenType.\r\n\r\nFirst,
  it takes the brain work about correct Biblical Hebrew typography out of the hands
  of page layout professionals, and into the sweaty palms of qualified type designers
  - yes, those fearless few. Second, it borrows fascinating rules of Hebrew grammar
  from Hebrew school teachers, and lends it to the masses. Now, those teachers can
  keep their students awake and actually learn these rules of Hebrew grammar by using
  fun exciting neato groovy and keen software tools.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/joshua_1_10_4530.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nA
  sample of Biblical Hebrew text from Joshua 1:10-11 in the OpenType Biblical Hebrew
  font, FrankReuhl GH. Frank and Reuhl were two Germans in the early twentieth century,
  who created this popular standard Hebrew type design. It was the Hebrew version
  of Times-Roman, in that it replaced the famous Vilna type design standard of the
  19th century. \r\n\r\nContact FontWorld (www.fontworld.com) for more details. \r\n\r\nNote
  the special Hebrew glyphs for the shva-na, final nuhn with patach, the folded lamed,
  the unfolded ayin, and the various final chofs. Featured also is John Hudson's automatic
  furtive patach, highlighted in blue. "
comments:
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "OpenType is an excellent engine for the requirements of Biblical Hebrew.
    It is missing only a few things needed to produce perfect Biblical Hebrew.\r\n\r\nFirst,
    Biblical Hebrew characters, like many other languages, require the correct placement
    of many diacritic marks. \r\n\r\nThese include:\r\n1) the dagesh mark, a center
    point in a Hebrew letter;\r\n2) the nikkud vowel symbol, which either appears
    under a letter (usually), or as a point above and on the left side of a Hebrew
    letter (known as a \"cholam haser\" or a missing cholam), or as a centered on
    the left side of a Hebrew letter (only if the letter is a final nuhn [plus kamatz],
    or a final chof [plus either a kamatz, dagesh kamatz, shvah {and I think there's
    also a very rare occurance of a dagesh shva}, and a final mehm with a chirik on
    the extreme right side under the letter), or the furtive patach, placed on the
    extreme right side, under the ayin, dotted hei, and chet, when these letters appear
    at the end of a Hebrew word, to indicate that the patach should be pronounched
    before the consonant, unlike how it is usually pronounced;\r\n3) the cantorial
    music note, known as trup, or taamei mikra, or taamim for short, placed either
    above or below the Hebrew letter, indicarting how to chant the syllables;\r\n4)
    the mysterious meteg (a short thin horizontal line, placed on the left side of
    the other lower glyphs, or by itself.\r\n\r\nSo, in all, there could be 0 to 3
    upper markings, above the Hebrew letter, or 0 to 3 bottom markings, below the
    Hebrew letter, and another one smacked in the middle, or 0 to 2 diacritic glyphs
    placed beside the Hebrew letter.\r\n\r\nWithout trying to sound arrogant, I think
    Biblical Hebrew typographic conditional placement is the most complicated in the
    world!\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/BHsamples_5334.jpg]"
  created: '2008-09-11 10:09:56'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "OpenType is really great. Like TrueType before it, it supports Unicode. \r\n\r\nIf
    a text document is encoded with Unicode, then every character and glyph in the
    world has its unigue Unicode value. This then avoids the confusion when data is
    transfered from one program to another, or from one platform to another, and different
    sets of encoding are used or misused. People who remember the nineties will never
    forget - what a mess!\r\n\r\nOpenType is cross platform, so if the font can be
    installed on the Macintosh and work, it can also be installed on Windows and work,
    too. No more file conversions etc.\r\n\r\nBut do you know what is the greatest
    thing about OpenType that never existed before in fine Hebrew typography?\r\n\r\nAccurate
    placement.\r\n\r\nThis no longer is in the field of the operator of the page layout
    software program or super word-processor - that guy is a good graphic artist at
    best... it is in the field of the talented type designer. \r\n\r\nAccurate placement
    is now in the intelligent OpenType typeface.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/joshua_with_wo_6372.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nTwo
    examples of the popular FrankReuhl font. One with intelligent OpenType character/diacritic
    placement, and one without (ah, that font doesn't even have taamim!)."
  created: '2008-09-11 11:01:53'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "So, how does OpenType do it?\r\n\r\nWell, there are features of OpenType,
    basically speaking. Really, they are called 'features'. Just like in the movies.\r\n\r\nCSUB
    and CPOS were friends. Te'wrain de'lo'meesh'pa'rin. Two friends that can't be
    separated.\r\n\r\nThe snail and his shell, as they say.\r\n\r\nC stands for character.\r\n\r\nSUB
    stands for a conditional substitution. And POS stands for posee - round 'em up,
    rawhide.\r\n\r\nNo, no, no, POS stands for accurate positioning.\r\n\r\nSo, the
    most basic aspects of OpenType is the ability to do contextual replacements (CSUB),
    and carefully position diacritic non-width glyphs upon a base character.\r\n\r\nThis
    means that a sequence of Unicode values can be substituted for a different set
    of font glyphs - that's CSUB.\r\n\r\nAnd a number of diacritic glyph markings
    can be accurately placed or positioned upon a base character - that's CPOS.\r\n\r\nNow,
    what about seeing and placing multiple diacritic glyph markings, when MS VOLT
    can only show us and place a single diacritic glyph marking at a time?\r\n\r\nBiblical
    Hebrew could have a whole array of diacritic glyph markings on a single base character.\r\n\r\nJohn,
    what do you say?\r\n\r\nHow about Simon, what do you say?"
  created: '2008-09-11 11:19:40'
- author:
    name: Chajmke
    picture: 115787
  body: "<cite>\r\nA sample of Biblical Hebrew text from Joshua 1:10-11 in the OpenType
    Biblical Hebrew font, FrankReuhl GH. Frank and Reuhl were two Germans in the early
    twentieth century, who created this popular standard Hebrew type design.\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nPlease
    allow some corrections. The name of the type is Frank R\xFChl, or Frank Ruehl:
    Frank stands for Rafael Frank, Chazan and teacher for religious education in Leipzig.
    Ruehl was the name of a local type foundry.\r\n\r\nSee a picture of Rafael Frank
    in my blog: \r\nhttp://www.sprachkasse.de/blog/2007/11/15/viel-verandert-und-dennoch-nahezu-unbekannt/\r\n\r\nFor
    those who are able to read german, some additional information:\r\nhttp://www.sprachkasse.de/doku.php?id=hebraeisch_hebraeisch\r\n\r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\nhttp://www.sprachkasse.de/blog\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"
  created: '2008-09-11 11:47:13'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Sample of CSUB and CPOS in action. See how they run!?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/BH2_5125.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nVarious
    different Hebrew letter featuring different kinds of diacritic glyph markings,
    even multiples carefully placed automatically by OpenType."
  created: '2008-09-11 11:52:14'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Chajke,\r\n\r\nThank you for the correction about Mr. Rafael Frank, the co-creator
    of the popular modern Hebrew type design.\r\n\r\nDo we know biographical information
    about him? The name of the temple where he was chazzan, for example.\r\n\r\nRegarding
    the discrepencies in my description of him, is simply due to what little details
    I heard about him, and the person or firm which cut his designs into metal type.
    From your account, they weren't details, but inaccuracies.\r\n\r\nAbout the spelling
    of his typeface, I used to spell it Fronk-Ruehl, simply in order to make a distiction
    between my font, and other people's fonts of similar names, and somewhat similar
    designs.\r\n\r\n===\r\n\r\nI see that this reproduction of this famous design
    is very similar to my [first] version. Interestingly, Merganthaler/Linotype and
    Varityper used different designs. There are at least five different designs.\r\n\r\n===\r\n\r\nGermany
    not only produced the popular standard text font of Mr. Rafael Frank a\"h, but
    also one of the designs popularized by Mr. Tzvi Narkis a\"h of Israel.\r\n\r\nWhen
    I lived in Rochester, NY, I had the good fortune to visit the Graphic Arts library
    and type design collection at R.I.T., the Rochester Institute of Technology, which
    houses one of the finest and largest collections of type designs in the world.
    \r\n\r\nWhile there, I happened across a poster about a play that took place in
    the Warsaw Ghetto or a concentration camp with beautiful hand-drawn Hebrew lettering
    on it. It was exactly the design later popularized by Mr. Narkis, a sans-serif
    Hebrew typeface design. I was mesmerized by what I saw.\r\n\r\nThere, in German
    occupied Poland was the birthplace of the first sans-serif Hebrew typeface design.
    And in the ashes of mankind's murderous holocaust was an expression of wonderful
    lively creativity!\r\n\r\nGermany also homed the popular display Hebrew typeface
    design, Chaim, or Haim Hashamen (the 'fat Hayim') [because generations later a
    narrow version of Chaim was created, known as Haim Tzar (the 'skinny Hayim')].\r\n\r\n===\r\n\r\nCoincidentally,
    the library's assistant librarian, Mr. Perkow (I think) grew up in Crown Heights,
    Brooklyn, to where I later moved. Small world, isn't it?"
  created: '2008-09-11 12:33:45'
- author:
    name: Chajmke
    picture: 115787
  body: "My (german) blog article was some kind of small biography. A very interesting
    document in this regard is\r\nhttp://www.tau.ac.il/~stoledo/fonts/frank-hebrew.pdf\r\n\u05D0\u05D5\u05EA\u05D9\u05D5\u05EA
    \u05D3\u05E4\u05D5\u05E1 \u05D5\u05D2\u05D5\u05E4\u05E0\u05D9\u05DD\r\n\r\nIt
    is astonishing: Rafael Frank's influence on jewish culture is not tiny, but he
    is almost unknown...\r\n\r\nIt is a small biography and a small book written by
    Rafael Frank about hebrew typography. I have no idea whether it is available in
    english, there is a german one, of course.\r\n\r\nThe story of Narkis is very
    interesting. Are photos available? That would be interesting.\r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\nhttp://www.sprachkasse.de/blog\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"
  created: '2008-09-11 13:24:09'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Mr. Rafael Frank wrote a book on Hebrew typography? This is amazing, as I
    believe that it was the first of its kind.\r\n\r\nBeforehand, Hebrew type design
    was limited to a very small set of designs.\r\n\r\nI am only aware of five sets
    of designs.\r\n\r\nFirst, there was the design family of ancient Sephardic origin,
    popularized by the famous Romm family Talmud publishers in Vilna, Lithuania. Their
    huge printing establishments dominated Jewish religious and secular publishing
    in most of the 19th and early 20th centuries, until the Nazis destroyed their
    existing inventory and burned their original Hebrew book plates and their two
    establishments. Later, the premises were entirely conviscated by the Communists,
    and nothing remained but history and dying memories.\r\n\r\nLike the simple biography
    of Frank has been lost to a great part, the story of the illustrious Romm family
    printing establishment is very limited.\r\n\r\nThe patriarch of the Romm family
    traveled to Italy with very old drawings of Hebrew letter forms, according to
    an account byFrederick Goudy, the great American type designer, in his small book
    on the evolution of type design. This Romm family patriarch went to the Bodoni
    school of type design in Italy.\r\n\r\nInterestingly, the resulting Hebrew type
    designs are similar to some of Bodoni famous works, prompting one to question
    which came first, the chicken or the egg?\r\n\r\nI believe the answer rests in
    reproductions of hand-drawn books which feature this very same Hebrew type designs,
    dating from periods which preceded the invention of the printing press. This clearly
    indicates that English type designs popularized by Bodoni were inspired by old
    Sephardic drawings of Hebrew letterforms.\r\n\r\nWhat is fascinating is that those
    very popular Bodoni English type designs do not have design origins in other older
    type designs, and stand out in the crowd, so to speak.\r\n\r\nAnother style of
    Hebrew type design is non-Jewish in origin, from the famous priest Bomberg and
    [businessman ?] Soncino, based upon their interpretations of drawings of old Sephardic
    and Ashkenazic letter forms, as seen through European Christian eyes.\r\n\r\nI
    was told recently that John Hudson's Adobe Hebrew and SBL-Hebrew were inspired
    by these sources. Is that accurate, John? In we study this design carefully, we
    see elements of Mr. Henri Friedlaender a\"h popular Hadasa typeface (which seems
    a cross between the first and second designs).\r\n\r\nThe third kind of design
    is Ashkenazic in origin, and similar to the design popularized by the Israeli
    typographer Mr. Eliyahu Koren a\"h.\r\n\r\nThe fourth style of design appears
    in the Dead Sea Scrolls and other archaelogical findings. This ia crude script-like
    design, that looks like it was formed from the speed of the scribe's hand, and
    not due to any design issues.\r\n\r\nThe fifth design style is found in the Torah
    Scroll. It is block-like, squarish, ornate, and clearly rich with design significance.\r\n\r\nI
    agree that with such an important role that the FrankRuehl design has played in
    modern Hebrew publishing, much too little is written about this very talented
    designer who revolutionized modern Hebrew type design with his single significant
    contribution."
  created: '2008-09-11 16:13:59'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Thank you very much for the Hebrew language article in PDF about Rephael
    Frank.\r\n\r\nI read and understand Hebrew, but speak like I'm breaking my teeth.
    :)\r\n\r\nIronically, it appears in a lighter and modern version of the FrankRuehl
    typeface, popular in inexpensive scholarly publishing systems in Israel. It loses
    much of the flavor and originality in the homogenized details. As they say, Frank
    would have 'puked'."
  created: '2008-09-11 16:21:18'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Wow, what a fascinating article.\r\n\r\nMr. Frank reproduces samples of a
    few other type styles than I mentioned above.\r\n\r\nAlso, his classification
    of various different type styles is in deed most revealing. There are two kinds
    of Rashi-like script, and a third which is partially derived from it.\r\n\r\nIt's
    amazing that this variety of Hebrew type design existed in pre-Nazi Germany.\r\n\r\nI
    heard that secular Jewish culture was very advanced in Germany at that time, perhaps
    more than in America today. Sadly, the Nazis succeeded in gassing even the remnants
    of that culture, but thank G-d a little bit remains of its legacy."
  created: '2008-09-11 16:57:04'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: How does your blog article neo biography differ from the PDF article in Hebrew?
  created: '2008-09-11 17:44:13'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John Hudson and Simon Daniels,\r\n=============================\r\n\r\nNow,
    what about seeing and placing multiple diacritic glyph markings, when MS VOLT
    can only show us and place a single diacritic glyph marking at a time?\r\n\r\nBiblical
    Hebrew could have a whole array of diacritic glyph markings on a single base character.\r\n\r\nJohn,
    what do you say?\r\n\r\nHow about Simon, what do you say?\r\n\r\nHow would you
    handle it?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-11 18:03:11'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> Now, what about seeing and placing multiple diacritic glyph markings, when
    MS VOLT can only show us and place a single diacritic glyph marking  at a time?\r\n\r\n
    \             s h o u l d             r e a d\r\n\r\nNow, what about seeing and
    placing multiple diacritic glyph markings, when MS VOLT can only show one base
    character together with a single glyph in a font (be it one diacritic element,
    or a ligature made up of many diacritic elements) and place a single diacritic
    glyph marking at a time?"
  created: '2008-09-11 18:54:45'
- author:
    name: Chajmke
    picture: 115787
  body: "The hebrew was the only non-german version I know ;-) There is also a scanned
    version available: http://www.tau.ac.il/~stoledo/fonts/frank-scanned.pdf The picture
    quality is much better.\r\nMy blog article gives a short sketch of his biography
    and tries to explain the great importance of his work and wonders why he is unknown.
    There isn't even a hebrew wikipedia article about Frank?!\r\n\r\nYes, the printing
    and typographic activities were amazing. Do you know the Jewish Encyclopedia article
    about typography? It is full of pictures and examples:\r\nhttp://www.jewishencyclopedia.com/view.jsp?artid=372&letter=T\r\n\r\nIt
    also features the Letteris Tanach from Berlin/Vienna (interesting font) and some
    more examples... it could be of advantage to \"collect\" examples of Tanachprintings
    before starting off with a new font ;-)\r\n\r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\nhttp://www.sprachkasse.de/blog\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"
  created: '2008-09-12 08:41:23'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Chajmke,\r\n\r\nThank you for the links. I will review them soon."
  created: '2008-09-12 10:27:22'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Chajm,\r\n\r\nWhy unknown? what about:\r\n\r\n1. The huge exhibition in New
    York -- 2,000 Years of Hebrew Books (october 15, 1988 -- january 14, 1989; The
    NY Public Library)\r\n\r\n2. An essay by Moshe Spitzer The Development of Hebrew
    Lettering (Alei Ayin, 1952, Tel Aviv)\r\n\r\n3. An article by Ittai Tamari Digitization
    of Hebrew Fonts (Raster Imaging and Digital Typography, 1989, Lausanne)\r\n\r\nMore?
    \r\n"
  created: '2008-09-12 17:42:01'
- author:
    name: theplatypus
    picture: 115609
  body: "Nice bit of information.  Full of things I haven't a clue what you speak
    of.  But I will proceed and learn.  ha!\r\n\r\ndaniel"
  created: '2008-09-12 18:21:57'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Daniel,\r\n\r\nThank you.\r\n\r\nI very much liked your clean and deceptively
    simple web site. The content also reflected this clarity of design. I have not
    seem something this great in a long time.\r\n\r\nJewish mysticism praises deceptive
    simplicity as the ultimate expression of the most complex image.\r\n\r\nFor example,
    the Creator of the world is described as a \"achdut hapashut\" - a 'pure and simple'
    unity.\r\n\r\nWe see that a person is most effective at communication by saying
    something simply and directly to the point.\r\n\r\nKing Solomon, one of the wisest
    and most intelligent people of all time, was able to describe the most complex
    concept in very simple words for even the simplest person."
  created: '2008-09-12 19:37:06'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nDo you have these two articles (#2 and #3) to post here at
    the blog on Hebrew Type Design, and can report upon the exibit?\r\n\r\nIs it too
    much to ask you? I hope not.\r\n\r\nWhat's more?"
  created: '2008-09-12 20:17:39'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Israel,\r\n\r\nI don't scan + post Copyrighted Materials (#3) \u2014 Cambridge
    University Press; maybe to post my own summary. I don't scan old stuff (#2) especially
    \ when there's not a chance to find another copy; again my own summary \u2014
    different story.\r\n\r\n\r\n> can report upon the exibit?\r\n\r\nReport what?
    what I'm Diane Sawyer of ABC News? \r\n\r\n\r\n> What\u2019s more?\r\n\r\nMore
    samples of course. \r\n"
  created: '2008-09-12 21:12:06'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nIs the copyright on its content or appearance? If I reset it
    (in theory of course), is there a violation?\r\n\r\nRead it, analyze it, and present
    a lecture.\r\n\r\nIs Diane Sawyer related to Tom...uhh, uhh...Brokau? :)\r\n\r\nSamples
    of different versions of FrankReuhl, or his original kind? Please post it all
    at the Hebrew Type Designs blog with your comments. Why is it so popular? What
    did Frank do? Can the Vilna or Romm family \"Meruba\" font have a come back to
    replace FrankReuhl?\r\n\r\nPS I didn't give up on an automatic shvana etc."
  created: '2008-09-12 23:55:33'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "The creation of Shvana into a \r\nfurtive patach-like automatic substitution\r\n==========================================\r\n\r\nI
    reviewed in depth the Nusach Ari, the rendition according the Ari zal by Rabbi
    Shneur Zalman of Liadi, the first Lubavitcher Rebbe, Birkat Hamazon, the booklet
    of blessings after a meal.\r\n\r\nThis booklet is special because it features
    a graphic symbol for a shvana.\r\n\r\nI looked for a pattern when a shvana appeared,
    and when an ordinary shva(nach) appeared. I asked myself under what consitions
    did it always appear, and under what conditions it never appeared.\r\n\r\nI found
    that there are a few rules. Therefore, an OpenType font can include CSUB contextual
    replacement for each rule.\r\n\r\nFor example, the shvana always appeared over
    the shva after the first letter of a Hebrew word, if that letter is a shooruk,
    a vov with a dot on it middle left side. One rule.\r\n\r\nThere are other rules
    as well. Stay tuned for more."
  created: '2008-09-14 22:16:38'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> This booklet is special because it features a graphic symbol for a shvana.\r\n\r\nIsrael,
    do you have a scan/sample?"
  created: '2008-09-15 03:20:42'
- author:
    name: Chajmke
    picture: 115787
  body: "@ David: Of course Rafael Frank is not unknown among the few specialists,
    but his cultural significance is completely underestimated. Both: in Israel and
    in Germany.\r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\nhttp://www.sprachkasse.de/blog\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"
  created: '2008-09-15 08:51:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: My own view on this topic is that sheva na is properly an encoding issue.
    It may or may not be possible to automate a glyph-level solution based on the
    encoding of sheva, but even if possible this does not mean that this is the best
    or most appropriate way to handle the distinction. As with the qamats qatan /
    qamats gadol distinction, this is something that belongs at the plain text level
    so that users can reliably interchange text while maintaining this distinction.
    The furtive patah is not a good parallel, because that is a standard grammatical
    rule, while visual display of a distinction between two different pronunciations
    of sheva, like the distinction between two different pronunciations of qamats,
    is a user/publisher-specific preference. For users who wish to make the distinction,
    we can assume that they would like the distinction to be retained when they send
    text e.g. by email or published over the web; ergo, the distinction needs to be
    made at the plain text level and not rely on a glyph-level display solution.
  created: '2008-09-15 18:51:44'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John,\r\n\r\nDo you want to have your cake and eat it too?\r\n\r\nIf the
    glyph is in deed based a major grammatical rule, like the kamatz gadol, then it
    should be data transferable, and hence, deserves a Unicode value.\r\n\r\nThe furtive
    patach then is a minor grammatical rule, then it does not have to be data transferable,
    and hence, does not need its own Unicode value.\r\n\r\nIf so, a hataf kamatz kadol
    and a shvana (both which we implemented already), should have a Unicode value
    in the next Unicode standard.\r\n\r\n===\r\n\r\nI agree that for data transfer
    purposes, the implementation in an OpenType font as an automatic feature like
    the furtive patach is unnecessary.\r\n\r\nThe advantage of implementation in an
    OpenType font as an automatic feature like the furtive patach is that existing
    Unicode data of the Hebrew Bible, Jewish prayerbook, poetry, children's primers
    etc., can have these symbols placed automatically, correctly, without keying in
    anything.\r\n\r\n[Can a user search and replace it for a Unicode value? or is
    a \"virtual\" glyph?]"
  created: '2008-09-15 23:49:40'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John,\r\n\r\n> can you start a new thread to post your VOLT questions?\r\n\r\n>
    can an MS Volt and an OpenType source file, or a font to ship, have a reference
    to a complex exception table for look ups?\r\n\r\nFor example, can I designate
    a CSUB to occur whereby one string \u201Ca\u201D is replaced with a different
    string \u201Cb\u201D, except in the cases listed in the exception table.\r\n\r\nAnother
    question about MS Volt/OpenType support wild cards in the CSUB strings, whereby
    one string \u201Ca\u201D with a wild card or more in between is replaced with
    a different string \u201Cb\u201D with the same wild card or more in between?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-21 21:48:07'
- author:
    name: Michael Cunliffe Thompson
    picture: 109540
  body: "I'm interesting in creating a SIMPLE open type font. I'm looking for a relatively
    gentle way to ease myself into the \r\nprocess. I'm a user of Font Creator and
    so was very interested\r\nto come across this recent post:\r\n\r\nAdding OpenType
    Features\r\nhttp://forum.high-logic.com/viewtopic.php?f=4&t=2046#p8172\r\n\r\nIs
    this suited to working on a in Hebrew font?\r\n\r\nMike"
  created: '2009-01-14 23:51:12'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: using VOLT makes no difference what peogram you used to produce your TTF file,
    as long as the font is a working TTF Volt will handle it.
  created: '2009-01-18 22:02:44'
- author:
    name: Michael Cunliffe Thompson
    picture: 109540
  body: "Typograph\r\n  The article I referred to suggests using the OTComp tool rather
    than Volt.\r\nAny opinions on that?\r\nMike\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-19 01:56:14'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "Hi mike.\r\n\r\nI saw your font way bak that you hav put a link to on TAPUZ
    for download.\r\nits very nice.\r\n\r\nSo i understand that you wish to produce
    a hebrew font as opentype.\r\n\r\nif you wish, you can send me your miketompson
    font and i will send you back an open VOLT project that supports nikud, alef-lamed
    ligature, and wide alternates [alef-dalet-he-kaf-lamed-memfinal-resh-tav]\r\n\r\nthese
    are the main functions needed in a hebrew font.\r\n\r\nthis would be a good starting
    point for you in developing hebrew opentype fonts.\r\n\r\njust make sure that
    the font you are snding me is your standart for all your fonts are using this
    same format.\r\n\r\nGlyphs req: \r\nAlef..Tav\r\nAll Diacritic glyphs\r\nWide
    alternates\r\n\r\neli fried\r\nmy mail is\r\nstudiofried@gmail.com"
  created: '2009-01-19 18:43:53'
date: '2008-09-11 09:03:47'
node_type: forum
title: Creating a Complicated OpenType Font for Biblical Hebrew

---
