---
author:
  name: billtroop
  picture: 109800
body: "I have wondered about this a long, long time. In Fontographer, BCPs have floating
  point values. So it appears to be allowable in PostScript. It came to an urgent
  point for me today when I opened up a PS font in Fontlab and a stem seemed distorted.\r\n\r\nIf
  I open this PS font in Fontographer, I get BCPs with x values of 326.7 and 324.7.
  In Fontlab, the values are 326 and 324 and the curve point is converted into a corner
  point. There is visible distortion of the stem in Fontlab. (There would be less
  if Fontlab rounded off more intelligently?)\r\n\r\nI would like to learn more about
  this. Obviously PS fonts have floating point (at least to two decimal places, apparently)
  BCPs. How do interpreters deal with them? \r\n\r\nWhy does Fontlab round them off?
  Is there a way of subverting this behaviour? I am really worried about it. I am
  disturbed that Fog and Fontlab import PS fonts differently."
comments:
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Yes, FontLab rounds off decimals right away--either when drawn or imported.
    I believe their reasoning is that it is better to show them rounded straight off
    so you can make the needed corrections instead of when the font is output and
    you can't see the effect. Adam talked about this a few times. I hope he can correct
    me here if I am not accurate.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-09-13 15:17:21'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: Chris, I think you are talking about points rather than handles here. And
    to be explicit, the source data here are _generated_ PS fonts. What I mean is
    that Fog and Fontlab appear to open PS fonts (not fog/flab databases but generated
    PS fonts) differently. One of them must be wrong, n'est-ce-pas?
  created: '2008-09-13 15:44:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Bill, I mean both points and handles. My understanding is that rounding will
    occur in either and both. Zoom in all the way and tug on a bezier handle in FL
    and see how the handle will only snap to a raster point of intersection. My understanding
    from past use of FOG, and even the now defunct Studio, is that between positions
    for handles can happen but are rounded when output as fonts. I hope Adam will
    jump in here and set me straight. I am remembering his talk from one of the FontLab
    sessions at TypeCon a few years ago and my decrepit memory may be faulty :-)\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-09-13 17:43:41'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Chris, fine if the programs round before generating. But in this case, we
    are starting with a PS font, opening it in Fog, and finding decimal places in
    the handles. So how did they get into the font if they're rounded off first? \r\n\r\nHere's
    an example from an old Adobe font, Poetica Supp Initial Swash Caps, glyph D. Open
    it in Fog. Look at point 33. The incoming BCP hz value is -290.22; the outgoing
    BCP hz value is -199.22. Open in Flab and the values are rounded down. Not such
    a very great deal in this case, but if the values had been .7, .8, or .9, the
    difference would be quite visible. "
  created: '2008-09-13 20:42:20'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'And to complicate things still further: if I re-generate the Adobe font in
    Fontlab, then open it up in Fog, I find that the original values have been preserved.
    So Fontlab is failing to display the values correctly, but is, apparently, keeping
    track of them. When does it cause a problem? One possible example is when it is
    opening an MM file. '
  created: '2008-09-13 20:47:44'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Right now, FontLab Studio and TypeTool only allow integer coordinates. Fractional
    coordinates are allowed in the Type 1 format through the use of the div operator
    but not all PostScript engines properly support this (so Adobe used to use it
    in very old fonts but then reverted to integer coordinates only). Fontographer
    does indeed support fractional coordinates. We are planning to add support for
    fractional coordinates in all our products in the future. \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-14 19:39:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Here's a test:\r\n\r\n1. Open font in FontLab. Select a glyph, open it, and
    manually move <em>one</em> BCP, leaving all others untouched.\r\n\r\n2. Generate
    new font from FontLab.\r\n\r\n3. Open new font in FOG. Go to test glyph and look
    at position of touched BCP.\r\n\r\nIf this BCP is in exactly the same unit position
    as you set it in FontLab but other BCPs are at fractional positions, this will
    confirm your conclusion as stated, i.e. that FontLab is keeping track of fractional
    values for untouched BCPs but not displaying them or allowing fractional editing.\r\n\r\nIf
    the touched BCP also displays with a fractional value, then the problem is presumably
    on the FOG side, i.e. FOG is scaling BCPs somehow.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-14 19:40:02'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Troop: \"Why does Fontlab round them off? Is there a way of subverting this
    behaviour? \"\r\n\r\nWe've discussed this just recently, if you design on an em
    with units per em larger or smaller than the em resolution you are producing,
    (1000 or 2048, e.g.), you are axing for trouble. Remember? I fired fog 4.0 for
    this reason? Define your design upm based on the output format's upm and stick
    to it!!!!!!\r\n\r\nThe other issue is the penchant of FL to mess with point type.
    Fog used this signal to indicate if you had scaled skewed or rotated something,
    that it could not keep a trio of points (offcurve-oncurve-offcurve) in a straight
    line. You'd get a corner point where a curve point used to be, as your sign from
    Fog.\r\n\r\nFontLab, does no such thing. It changes curve points to corner points
    indiscriminately, even if they are orthogonally aligned. \r\n\r\n(Consider yourself
    lucky to be working in Beziers! FL Truetype allows/enables no curve or tangent
    points, ever, at all, period!)\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-15 12:36:32'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>(Consider yourself lucky to be working in Beziers! FL Truetype
    allows/enables no curve or tangent points, ever, at all, period!)</em>\r\n\r\n[Note:
    TT curves are also Beziers. PS curves are cubic B\xE9ziers; TT curves are quadratic
    B\xE9ziers.]\r\n\r\nDavid, are there any quadratic B\xE9zier editing tools that
    enable definition of point types and hence controlled alignment of off-line points
    through on-line curve or tangent points?"
  created: '2008-09-15 18:35:55'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Regarding PS vs TT curves:\r\n\r\nTT outlines are not per se harder to edit
    than PS outlines -- it is just that FLS5's UI for PS outlines is better than that
    for TT outlines.\r\nNeither PS nor TT outlines know about tangent points, or about
    in- and outgoing off-curve plus on-curve point inbetween that keep in line when
    moving one of the off-curve points. That's just UI behavior (the curve/corner
    and smooth buttons).\r\n\r\nFLS5 would simplify editing of TT outline a lot if
    it would\r\n[1] connect on-curve point and neighboring off-curve points with a
    line,\r\n[2] allow for tangential behavior (off-curve points bothsides of an on-curve
    point forming a line) i.e.\r\n[3] distinguish between corner, tangent and curve
    point as with PS outlines (currently TT outlines only seem to know corner points).\r\n[4]
    Allow adding/removing off-curve points with a special tool (or does it exist?).\r\nIn
    one sentence: The \"look and feel\" should be the same as with PS outlines.\r\n\r\nThe
    advantage I see in TT outlines is that one can determine the curve flow, say between
    a top and a rightside on-curve extremum point, nicely with three or so off-curve
    points inbetween. No need for an additional on-curve point as with PS -- and hence
    no kinks when interpolating.\r\n\r\nHello Mr Yarmola!&nbsp;&nbsp;:)\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2008-09-15 19:13:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Some years ago, I asked Sampo Kaasila why he had selected quadratic B\xE9ziers
    for TrueType when editing conventions for cubic B\xE9ziers were so well established
    and familiar to many in the graphic arts fields. He said he had presumed that
    tool developers would apply similar editing conventions to quadratic curves, along
    the lines that Karsten suggests."
  created: '2008-09-15 19:54:11'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...\u2014 and hence no kinks when interpolating.\"\r\nMaybe you don't know
    about this little super-kink?: if you interpolate two quadratic B\xE9ziers in
    FL, you get a cubic B\xE9zier for output. :-o\r\n\r\n\"[Note: TT curves are also
    Beziers. PS curves are cubic B\xE9ziers; TT curves are quadratic B\xE9ziers.]\"\r\nYes
    John, cubic B\xE9ziers is what I meant, thanks. \r\n\r\n\"... are there any quadratic
    B\xE9zier editing tools that enable definition of point types and hence controlled
    alignment of off-line points through on-line curve or tangent points?\"\r\nFog-Q
    is the one and only I'm aware of. Developed with the agreement to simplify the
    editing by allowing only two off-curve points between two on-curve points, this
    was splendid. Three off-curve points is too many for most users who have never
    edited IK or Bitstream data anyway.\r\n\r\nThe direct advantages I see in quadratic
    B\xE9ziers is that, between a top and a rightside on-curve extremum point, two
    off-curve points can define all the curves from a straight line connecting the
    on-curve points, to a pair of straight lines (a sharp corner) instead of a curve,
    (try that with cubic B\xE9ziers!;)) and, that the conversion to cubic B\xE9ziers
    is loss-less. There are some indirect advantages as well, in allowing the direct
    editing of the world's most popular font format. :-.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-15 20:11:52'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "And you did not report this to FontLab?&nbsp;&nbsp;:D\r\n\r\n[As an addition
    to my previous remark about avoiding kinks with help of TT outlines: For an example
    of getting rid of non-extremum on-curve points and instead using a few more off-curve
    points, see figure 4 in <a href=\"http://developer.apple.com/textfonts/TTRefMan/RM01/Chap1.html\"
    target=\"_blank\">chapter 1</a> of Apple's TT Reference Manual.]\r\n\r\n[Since
    this post made a jump anyway ... \r\nDB -- <cite>you get a cubic B\xE9zier for
    output</cite>\r\nDamn yes, I did notice this special feature! So one more for
    Mr Yarmola:\r\n[5] When interpolating please do <em>not</em> revert to cubic Bezier.\r\nDB
    -- <cite>Three off-curve points is too many for most users who have never edited
    IK or Bitstream data anyway.</cite>\r\nI trust that designers are always eager
    to learn.]"
  created: '2008-09-15 20:31:58'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: --edit--
  created: '2008-09-15 20:49:22'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">And you did not report this to FontLab?\r\nIn the fall of 2006, when I thought
    it more than safe to consider TrueType a major font format, I started reporting
    TT issues and requesting a true TT interface to TT outlines. See how patient I
    am? Not a single issue has been addressed, yet TT is still a major font format,
    ain't it? \r\n\r\nThis issue was, by-the-way, a major clue to me that the CT collection
    would most likely find its destiny in typographic oblivion. That the fonts were
    not drawn as TT, just converted to TT and seemingly barfed around 'till they \"worked\"
    was very enlightening. No one \"out there\" seemed to have learned from the excellence
    of the Verdana/Georgia development path. \r\n\r\n>[5] When interpolating please
    do not revert to cubic Bezier.\r\nAs far as I can tell, it's a brain-twisting
    copulation-cluster because, the two TT input fonts have points that match, auto-converted
    T1 versions of these TT fonts would not have points that match, and would not
    interpolate. So, somehow... I think, the fonts are interpolated as TT, a resulting
    TT font must be \"thought out\" and then converted to T1 despite the obvious logic
    of matching the input format to the output format. I.E. Ewe mite half two go out
    of yore way too due what they dew rong. ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-16 12:58:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>That the fonts were not drawn as TT, just converted to TT...</em>\r\n\r\n?\r\n\r\nI
    spent a heck of a lot of time manually editing TT outlines in Constantia. For
    Calibri, Lucas not only worked directly in TT outlines but also had a customised
    FL made so that he could make TT-flavour MM sources. At the beginning of the font
    development, MS conducted hint and rendering tests of all the designs, and determined
    that they did not consider converted outlines significantly different within CT,
    so the individual designers were encouraged to work however they found most comfortable.\r\n\r\nWhen
    I'm working directly in TT outlines I don't use that same approach as you, because
    it is most often impossible to get a truly smooth connection through a non-extrema
    on curve point, due to rounding of the position of the adjacent off-curve points,
    and I don't like the kinks and wobbles this produces. So I deliberately minimise
    the use of on-curve points. By way of illustration, here is Georgia, left, and
    Constantia, right.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gcq_4684.gif]"
  created: '2008-09-16 21:08:50'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...I deliberately minimise the use of on-curve points\"\r\n\r\nOh that's
    good! I love to be rong and can seek other reasons for the oblivionation of the
    faces.  \r\nBut there are still 4 co-linear points on your example. Is that for
    future MM?\r\n\r\n\"...it is most often impossible to get a truly smooth connection
    through a non-extrema on curve point\"\r\nI don't put them on non-extrema either
    except for the s...?\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-16 22:24:21'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "<em> The advantage I see in TT outlines is that one can determine the curve
    flow, say between a top and a rightside on-curve extremum point, nicely with three
    or so off-curve points inbetween. No need for an additional on-curve point as
    with PS \u2014 and hence no kinks when interpolating.</em>\r\n\r\nExactly, Karsten.
    When I started my first computer font, in my inexperience I used a few off-curve
    TT points to draw nice smooth curves.  But then I was told by more experienced
    designers that I needed extremums. I assume those are needed to control hinting?\r\n\r\nThere
    was no way to add extremums to TT curves  automatically in FLS without distorting
    the curves or dotting them with too many new on-curve points. I then redesigned
    everything using PS outlines, but I miss the freedom and economy of designing
    with TT."
  created: '2008-09-17 01:32:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>But there are still 4 co-linear points on your example.</em>\r\n\r\nThey're
    not actually co-linear, they just look that way at that scaling factor. I don't
    work that small, of course.\r\n\r\n<em>I don\u2019t put them on non-extrema either
    except for the s...?</em>\r\n\r\nOkay. But you mentioned 'the excellence of the
    Verdana/Georgia development path' and Georgia, as shown above, does use on-curve
    points along the paths, apparently necessitated by following a two-off-curve points
    between each on-curve point, which suggests Fog-Q."
  created: '2008-09-17 02:04:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Anyway, aren't we all going to be designing with cornu curves in future? :)
  created: '2008-09-17 02:05:02'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Anyway, aren\u2019t we all going to be designing with cornu curves in future?
    :)\"\r\n\r\nI doubt it. I see the iPhone as the new model for font selection and
    handling, who needs a new format.\r\n\r\n\"...Georgia, as shown above...\"\r\nMy
    mistake, Georgia has been invaded by points with pointed heads. \r\nThe only question
    now is whether they came as peace keepers or something else.\r\n\r\nCheers! \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-17 11:32:52'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Re adoption of the CT types, surely short-term that depends on how people
    get along with MS Word 2007, which has the worst interface of any program I have
    seen since the invention of the 8080 chip. I would be surprised if they attained
    the visceral traction Georgia and Verdana have attained, but I don't see how anyone
    can possibly tell what general usage will be like five or ten years from now or
    how we will see the situation then. \r\n\r\nDavid, re your admonitions: I AM keeping
    to the 1000 unit grid as you suggested. BUT, I have a ton of fonts that have floating
    point handles even from the Fog3 days. Moreover, I think Adam is wrong: FontLab
    does seem to preserve these values to some extent. It may not show them, and it
    may capriciously and with inexcusable inaccuracy round them off under circumstances
    not yet identified. But under certain circumstances, it does preserve them.\r\n\r\nWe
    need to know when it is preserving them and when it is rounding them off. "
  created: '2008-09-17 19:25:03'
- author:
    name: vanblokland
    picture: 110442
  body: "> I have a ton of fonts that have floating point handles even from the Fog3
    days. \r\n\r\nI don't think any version of Fog 3 did floating point coordinates.\r\n\r\nE"
  created: '2008-09-23 13:39:02'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "<em>Anyway, aren\u2019t we all going to be designing with cornu curves in
    future? :)</em> \r\n\r\nJohn judging from an older thread+, you were in on the
    early development of cornu splines (not to be confused with the Cornu spiral which
    is one particular curve from diffraction physics).   I checked a fun Java applet++
    illustrating these curves and could see how useful they could be in some situations.
    \r\nI wonder what is the state of the art as far as font design in concerned,
    and why the smiley :)\r\n\r\n+ www.typophile.com/node/7570\r\n++ http://igor.grafitron.com/cornu/ "
  created: '2008-09-23 14:34:10'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Vladimir, I can hardly be said to have been 'in on the early development
    of cornu splines', other than chatting with their inventor, Raph Levien. I still
    have not actually got around to trying to use them (largely because installing
    support for them in FontForge seemed difficult for Windows). I see that they are
    making their way into a number of open source drawing tools, such as NodeBox and
    Inkscape. I'd like to see them incorporated as a drawing option in FontLab, perhaps
    replacing the weird 'Sketch' tool, which I've never been able to figure out.\r\n\r\nThe
    smiley was an acknowledgement that introducing a new drawing format, no matter
    how good and easy to work with, is unlikely to result in a global change in everyone's
    practices. As David pointed out, there are always issues in outline format conversion
    and sometimes benefits to working within the native format of the final font,
    even if the tools for such work are deficient. I know some designers who still
    swear by Ikarus, but I've also had the job of cleaning up IK-to-Bezi\xE9r conversions,
    the quality of which can vary considerably dependent on the skill of the Ikarus
    user and the approach taken to the drawing."
  created: '2008-09-23 19:57:11'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: Thanks for the explanations John :) I consider myself lucky that I started
    my digital font design experience after what appears to have been an intense period
    of experimentation with new font formats and software by so many talented programmers
    and the designers like you who used their products and provided feedback.  There
    is obviously a lot to be done still. One tool I would like to see is an automatic
    method to <em> adjust </em> the distance between the opposite outlines of a glyph
    according to a circle or ellipse of a given size set at fixed angle as it sweeps
    the area inside the glyph. That would be somewhat like the  use of a brush tool
    to create a script-like outline. I've never used the sketch tool maybe I should
    check it out, also the programs you mentioned, and one called [[http://www.levien.com/spiro|Spiro]]
    (also by Raph Levien) which sounds intriguing. One worries whether in all this
    flurry of activity some really useful tools and ideas might get forgotten or ignored
    by the designer community!
  created: '2008-09-24 11:46:38'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "David, you write: \r\n\r\n\"In the fall of 2006, when I thought it more than
    safe to consider TrueType a major font format, I started reporting TT issues and
    requesting a true TT interface to TT outlines. See how patient I am? Not a single
    issue has been addressed, yet TT is still a major font format, ain\u2019t it?\"\r\n\r\nWell,
    there hasn't been any major release of FontLab Studio since the fall of 2006.
    Your notes about quadratic curve editing have been duly noted and we're considering
    improving that support. \r\n\r\nAdam"
  created: '2008-09-25 16:20:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...there hasn\u2019t been any major release of FontLab Studio since the
    fall of 2006\"\r\n\r\nSo when can we expect one?  Several months ago, Yuri was
    strongly hinting something was in the works. The AtypI in Russia has past--the
    place where one might expect an announcement. So, what is the deal?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-09-25 16:33:50'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: Erik, you're right, Fog 3 doesn't do floating point handles, I just checked.
    That being the case it would presumably mis-import and mis-generate FP handles
    generated by the Adobe Tools. Or does it store the information but fail to display
    it as Fontlab does? A rounding error from 2.01 to 3 would be pretty awful -- assuming
    that Fog 3 rounded off as badly as Fontlab currently does.
  created: '2008-10-12 21:50:39'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Thanks Adam, I'm looking forward to whatever support can come out for the
    most popular font format in the universe as we know it. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-10-13 14:35:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>Or does it store the information but fail to display it as Fontlab
    does?</em>\r\n\r\nHave we actually established that this is what FontLab does?
    I proposed a test in my first post in this thread, but I don't know if anyone
    has actually tried this yet. And given that you only report the fractional positions
    from having seen them in Fontographer, I wouldn't presume that one tool is doing
    something right and another wrong until I'd seen the raw PS code in the original
    font."
  created: '2008-10-13 19:58:21'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: John, your test isn't necessarily valid, because it doesn't take into account
    what Flab might be doing during the act of moving the handle. It might internally
    store the floating point value, but may round off upon being commanded to move
    that handle. It is now clear to me that one of the reasons why Flab converts curve
    points to corner points in MM import from Fog databases and PS fonts is that the
    rounding off of the handles is more than adequate to change the type of the segment.
    It is quite dreadful, and accounts for a lot of messy imports. It astounds me
    that such a situation -- which must have resulted in a staggering amount of data
    corruption over the past few years -- should exist, and virtually without comment.
  created: '2008-10-14 20:55:36'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>John, your test isn\u2019t necessarily valid, because it doesn\u2019t
    take into account what Flab might be doing during the act of moving the handle.
    It might internally store the floating point value, but may round off upon being
    commanded to move that handle.</em>\r\n\r\nThat is exactly the point of the test,
    to determine whether FontLab is retaining fractional values for untouched BCPs
    while forcing rounding of touched ones. That is what the test tests.\r\n\r\nBut
    even before this is done, the first thing that should be done is a raw PS dump
    of the glyphs in the original fonts, because you are assuming that the fractional
    values you are seeing in Fontographer represent what is actually in the font,
    and I wouldn't assume any such thing. I would first determine what the native
    format (PS) contains, and then look at what different tools do with that data."
  created: '2008-10-15 03:30:50'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">the first thing that should be done is a raw PS dump of the glyphs in the
    original fonts\r\n\r\nNotice the great hurry everyone is in to be first? Why doesn't
    Fontlab just 'fess up and tell us exactly what is happening? If they know? \r\n\r\nAnd
    what does Adam mean by 'very old fonts' ? Certainly Adobe was using floating point
    handles exactly ten years ago, which doesn't constitute 'very' old fonts in my
    view. \r\n\r\nAdobe can hardly have changed the data points of the handles in
    those older fonts during the library's transition to OT (regardless of whether
    'some' clones 'don't' understand floating point handles), so I guess Fontlab wasn't
    part of that particular workflow? \r\n\r\nUnless Adobe converted without even
    being aware of the ghastly errors that could occur? That seems impossible!\r\n\r\nMy,
    my, you could hear a bezier handle drop! Tclunk! "
  created: '2008-10-16 00:58:38'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "So, I lost the other thread on this, but is there a way to MAKE Fontographer
    4.x design only on 1,000ths, e.g.  without the floating values being considered
    by the tool in the placement of points, on a new font?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-01-21 01:31:29'
date: '2008-09-13 14:20:41'
title: Does Fontlab distort BCPs by rounding off?

---
