---
author:
  name: Book Nerd
  picture: 115895
body: "I've been assigned to teach a one-hour art class to my son's 2nd grade class
  and I thought it would be fun to introduce them to typography in a very basic way.
  I'm not a type designer (I design books), but I love type and I'd like for the kids
  to understand letter forms as art and also as a means to communicate--how different
  fonts have different functions, etc. Anyway, my plan was to just introduce these
  ideas to the kids (open their eyes to what is all around them), and then give each
  of them a letter to design, which I can then take home and turn into a font with
  SigMaker. Has anyone ever done anything like this with kids? I want to keep it simple
  so I don't know if I should give them a ton of info--but it seems like I should
  introduce some basics (such as ascenders & descenders). Any ideas?\r\nThanks, Sarah"
comments:
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Typography and type design are two different things....\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-09-24 00:15:12'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: Seems too sophisticated for 2nd graders.
  created: '2008-09-24 00:22:31'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Come on Thomas, she was asking for help and support not delineations and
    scolding. Second grade! Please?\r\n\r\nShow them some different alphabets....
    Cyrillic, Hebrew, Greek, Chinese etc. Show them some outrageous calligraphy.  Show
    them some manuscript pages. And then show them some abstract work.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-09-24 00:37:02'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Jan\r\n\r\nYou would be surprised what second graders can latch on to. When
    my daughters were growing up I went into the school system all the time to demonstrate
    calligraphy and letters. Kindergarten to fifth grade!\r\n\r\nYou underestimate
    their sensitivity to the graphic environment. My daughter started reading at 3,
    my son started signing at 18 months, so to say that they are not savvy is erroneous!
    My kids were the only ones who knew the difference between a 1 and two story a
    or g. \r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-09-24 00:56:48'
- author:
    name: Book Nerd
    picture: 115895
  body: "Yipes, Thomas.\r\n\r\nJan, I was trying to think of ways to keep it on their
    level. I don't expect them to design anything professional--just to think about
    letters in a different way. My son has atrocious handwriting, but when I told
    him to think about his letters as works of art that say something about the writer,
    he improved vastly. That's what gave me the idea. Also, I'm sure none of the kids
    in my son's class have ever even thought of type design (much less, typography)
    as something that anyone actually does--so it seems like it would be fun to open
    their minds to that.\r\n\r\nThanks, Michael. Those are great ideas.\r\n\r\nI would
    guess some of you have kids who have asked you about your work. What have you
    said to them?"
  created: '2008-09-24 01:03:55'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I think you're reading too much into what Thomas said. Thomas has zero attitude.
    He was simply sayin'. You know. Just sayin'. =)
  created: '2008-09-24 01:06:24'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Sarah\r\n\r\nThere are tons of books in the children section of your local
    Barnes and Noble. I check them out all the time. Amazing illustration and concepts.\r\n\r\nOne
    of my favorite memories of my girls growing up was doing covers for childrens
    books for Random House. The AD of childrens books would let my children chose
    from my roughs the final for the covers. What trust! \r\n\r\nMy girls once told
    me I was nothing until I had done a Berenstein Bears cover. I was on the phone
    in a minute to secure a cover. When it came out I was the cat's meow!\r\n\r\nGood
    luck"
  created: '2008-09-24 01:53:03'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Mostly I was sleep-deprived and ran out of steam to explain. My last night
    in Europe, and I have a nasty cold.... But now I'm home and have had a nap.\r\n\r\nI
    am curious as to other's opinions, but I think I would try to pick just a couple
    of typographic concepts to teach them and use as examples, and also to let them
    know that there are many more such things. Maybe curly quotes vs dumb quotes for
    one? Serif, sans, script and symbol categories for the other?\r\n\r\nI thought
    of hyphens, en dashes and em dashes, but I think I'd save that for later on.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-09-24 05:07:14'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'Art is for the young. We beat it out of them by the time they hit Junior
    High. So, I applaud this. The more art and design they get exposed to while young,
    the better off. '
  created: '2008-09-24 14:57:36'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "Agreed...let them have it. Even if it only resonates with one kid (that kid
    might have been me...the one who really liked to draw letters and was ready to
    move beyond cursive), you're doing a great service. I like the idea of showing
    them different alphabets, but a variety of type faces would be equally as fascinating.
    From romans to grotesques to calligraphy to displays...and then show (quickly,
    don't dwell on it) that there are even differences between the roman letters in
    their textbooks. Just to illustrate that there are 100s of ways to draw something
    as simple as an a would open lots of doors in their imaginations.\r\n\r\nShoot...now
    I want to do it!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-24 15:34:23'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "The \u2018give each of them a letter to design\u2019-part sounded a bit too
    far ahead. I think it\u2019s a great idea, though.\r\n\r\n<em>Also, I\u2019m sure
    none of the kids in my son\u2019s class have ever even thought of type design
    as something that anyone actually does</em>\r\nThis would apply to most adults
    as well."
  created: '2008-09-24 15:51:06'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Just teach them to draw cool ampersands. Or show them some of Ale Paul\u2019s
    work and teach them about swashy letters. The teachers will hate you for it, but
    the kids will be writing like that for weeks!"
  created: '2008-09-24 16:03:41'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "You could even use one of the school computers and sign on to Typophiles
    and show them the \"What are you working on?\" type thread or the calligraphy
    thread.\r\n\r\nI think they are both PG rated.\r\n\r\nedit: Should have said G
    rated!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-09-24 16:24:50'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: Compare Univers, Futura & Helvetica. Kids can see the difference better than
    adults can . . . the alphabet is still a novelty to them.
  created: '2008-09-24 17:48:49'
- author:
    name: thebullfrog
  body: "How 'bout a little history? Explain the basics of old-school typesetting.
    Go over hot type or how text was set by hand with individual letters blocks, etc.
    \r\n\r\nMaybe show how tracking effects legibility in road signs. "
  created: '2008-09-24 18:42:30'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Have them look at the books they already have in the classroom. \r\n\r\nConcepts
    they might enjoy: single- and double-story a's and g's; teardrop terminals; serif
    vs. sans-serif. \r\n\r\nHave them write in block letters with a thin marker then
    add contrast with a fatter one."
  created: '2008-09-24 19:56:02'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Also...teach them to identify Comic Sans and emphasize that they should feel
    free to ridicule everyone that uses said font. \r\n\r\nThat's the only way we'll
    get these teachers to stop sending home the newsletters set in comic sans."
  created: '2008-09-24 20:38:47'
- author:
    name: clashmore
    picture: 114206
  body: http://www.amazon.com/Letter-Jesters-Cathryn-Falwell/dp/0395668980
  created: '2008-09-24 21:50:10'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "From the linked review of \"Letter Jesters\":\r\n\r\n<em> Sidebars on many
    pages give special information, e.g. why capital letters are called capitals (they
    were carved on the tops, or capitals, of Roman columns).</em>\r\n\r\n?!"
  created: '2008-09-24 22:02:01'
- author:
    name: jmcharg
  body: "Hello --\r\n\r\nSorry to barge in on your thread, Sarah, but Michael Clark's
    first response hit very close to to answering a question I have and since it's
    not completely off topic, I'd like to ask it here. My son just started kindergarten
    and we've been working on writing letters, of course. He's been diligently working
    on printing his name with the first letter capitalized and rest lower case and
    it has been a challenge since he got pretty comfortable printing his name in ALL
    CAPS. He has an 'a' in his name and was working on printing the 'one-story' (thank
    you, Michael!) form, as found in Avant Garde, for example, as he was taught. I
    was very surprised then, when he came home with a worksheet on which he'd been
    asked to copy the word 'bat' and the font used to layout the worksheet used the
    'two-story' form. Not surprisingly, his 'a' was about three times bigger than
    his 'b' and 't' and very elaborate and probably took him twenty minutes of labor
    and caused him to miss free-play time (not the worst thing in the world, but still).
    When I asked his teacher about the confusion this might cause a new learner, she
    agreed and said it is an active debate in early childhood curricula. She considers
    the issue just one of many confusing things they have to deal with and says it's
    just part of the process. She calls the one-story form the 'writing A' and the
    two- the 'reading A' since all grade school story books are printed with a font
    that uses the two-story form. \r\n\r\nWhew. So, here's my question. Can anyone
    tell me why we have two forms (and is it just 'A' and 'G'), and what they are
    called so I don't sound like such a eejit when I try to describe the problem?
    \r\n\r\nMany thanks in advance,\r\nJessica"
  created: '2008-09-25 00:26:16'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Just a simple explanation. The 2 story was the first to appear, the half
    Uncial, bookhand, Carolingian, blackletter etc. The single story is an evolution
    of the more cursive versions of the Latin in the Chancery \"scripts\" and proliferated
    through the pointed pen forms that succeeded them. Simply a result of time conservation
    and pen efficiency.\r\n\r\nOh, this is going to come back and bite me on the butt.
    But that is my story and I am stickin' to it!\r\n\r\n Michael"
  created: '2008-09-25 01:20:03'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "<cite>Whew. So, here\u2019s my question. Can anyone tell me why we have two
    forms (and is it just \u2019A\u2019 and \u2019G\u2019), and what they are called
    so I don\u2019t sound like such a eejit when I try to describe the problem?</cite>\r\n\r\n
    There is also the less common rounded \"y\" vs. the angular one, descending vs.
    baseline \"J\", italic variants, and the whole cursive (aptly named) alphabet."
  created: '2008-09-25 01:22:15'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: 'Oh, of course. My list was by no means meant to be exhaustive. If one looks
    around hard enough one could find an exception to just about anything, though. '
  created: '2008-09-25 01:38:32'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Actually Jason it is far more extensive. There are two story r's and k's,
    and variants on the e, a and f in the manuscripts. The scribes were very ingenious,
    inventive and territorial.\r\n\r\nThat doesn't even include the ligatures and
    what about the ampersand (ET).\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-09-25 01:38:53'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Sorry Jason. I edited a few seconds later.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-09-25 01:40:15'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'So far as I know, kids have no particular difficulty in learning the one
    and two story versions of the a and g. Both should be taught.  '
  created: '2008-09-25 04:14:49'
- author:
    name: Book Nerd
    picture: 115895
  body: "Wow. Thanks for all the great advice! I'm going to meet with the teacher
    and we'll see how it goes. I'll let you all know what happens.\r\n\r\nAlso, aluminum,
    you're killing me with the Comic Sans. Too funny.\r\n\r\nJessica, I think I might
    go insane if my kindergartner had to learn the two-story \"a\" at this point.
    It would take him forever to do it since they're just learning to master the simple
    stuff at this age. I'm curious. I'll ask my son's teacher what they do. We're
    still on capitals so far, so I haven't gotten any lowercase home yet.\r\n\r\nSarah"
  created: '2008-09-25 05:42:28'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I\u2019m just sitting here thinking about how incredibly horrible it must
    have been to teach kids to write\u2026with pens that had to be dipped in inkwells.\r\n\r\n<cite>Jessica,
    I think I might go insane if my kindergartner had to learn the two-story \u201Ca\u201D
    at this point.</cite>\r\n\r\nI learned the two-story a in kindergarten. Then I
    switched school systems and my teachers made me change (kicking off twelve years
    of me never taking most of my teachers seriously about anything). The two-story
    a really isn\u2019t any more complicated than most of the other lowercase letters,
    and it\u2019s certainly easier to draw than s!"
  created: '2008-09-25 06:35:09'
- author:
    name: Book Nerd
    picture: 115895
  body: Actually, James, you're right. The two-story probably isn't all that difficult
    for kindergartners. My problem probably stems more from the fact that my younger
    son is uncommonly lazy. No joke.
  created: '2008-09-25 14:25:10'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "My daughter just started kindergarden and I learned a few days ago that her
    teacher told her to stop using the two-storey a in favor of the more visually
    confusing one-storey a. \"WHAT?!\" I shrieked, remembering Mr Puckett's comments
    from an earlier thread. \"I was afraid something like this was going to happen!\"
    And she (my daughter) goes, \"It's okay, Dad. I don't mind making my a's that
    way.\"\r\n\r\nHer first step into conformity. *sigh* It'll be fun to look back
    at this when she's learning more about type as she grows up. I'm pretty sure she's
    got the bug...maybe worse than I've got it.\r\n\r\nChanging the subject...why
    don't you ask those second graders how they feel about the necessity of letters
    like c, j, and x?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-25 14:46:41'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "<cite>When I asked his teacher about the confusion this might cause a new
    learner, she agreed and said it is an active debate in early childhood curricula...\r\n\r\nActually
    there is a fairly clear, pedagogical explanation for all this. In America, there
    is a trend among educational institutions toward teaching chilren handwriting
    based on the Zaner-Bloser alphabets, which, in printing, have one-story As and
    Gs, open 4s, tailed Qs, etc. These forms obviously differ considerably from those
    used in most text faces, so when possible, specially modified versions of existing
    typefaces reflecting these forms are used when setting books for early readers.
    These are often proprietary to the publishers, but [[http://www.identifont.com/show?3O7|Gills
    Sans Schoolbook]] and [[http://www.identifont.com/show?3NE|Bembo Schoolbook]]
    are similar-enough, publicly available examples.\r\n\r\nThe shift toward \"standard\"
    letterforms usually occurs sometime around the middle of second grade \u2013 which
    isn't to say that no materials intended for children younger than second grade
    use two-story letters. A lot of publishers either aren't as aware of this issue
    or aren't as strictly influenced by state adoption practices as others."
  created: '2008-09-25 15:24:15'
- author:
    name: Kirs10
  body: "I think your idea of a letter spec book is terrific. Just keep it fun for
    the kids. Too much info and they'll start daydreaming and making paper airplanes.
    Remember the golden KISS rule (keep it simple stupid - there's probably a more
    politically correct version but this is how I always remember it). \r\n\r\nIf
    there's a computer in the class, show them:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.bemboszoo.com\r\n\r\nA
    very cool animated alphabet.\r\n\r\nThis is inspiring me to volunteer to speak
    to my son's second grade class. Let us know how the kid's like it."
  created: '2008-09-25 15:46:16'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "This trend is a fundamental shame on us. As I understand it, and correct
    me if I'm wrong, the singular purpose of the two-storey a is to make the letter
    automatically and easily discernable from all other characters in the alphabet...as
    in, the one-storey a looks, at a glance, a LOT like an o. It is for this reason
    that I avoid all type faces that employ the one-storey a...because it's dumb.
    (Same is true for the one-storey g versus q.)\r\n\r\nOnly reasonable explanation
    I can figure is that the one-storey a transitions easier into the cursive a. I'll
    give it that. But as stated by Mr Puckett, the two-storey a is certainly not a
    difficult thing to learn to draw, and is easier to draw than an s.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-25 15:50:07'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>My daughter just started kindergarden and I learned a few days ago
    that her teacher told her to stop using the two-storey a in favor of the more
    visually confusing one-storey a.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis is one of those moments that
    deserves a parent teacher conference in which the teacher is put into a dramatically
    uncomfortable position."
  created: '2008-09-25 16:05:32'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: "This deviates a bit from the original topic, but I was musing about handwriting
    education last week, and this seems a bit relevant. Why do we teach kids handwriting
    from geometric sans-serifs? The letterforms are unnatural to create by hand, which
    is why they are geometric and not humanist. Creating a single-story a by drawing
    a circle and then a line is unnatural and awkward. I suppose the idea is to first
    teach them to create uniform letter shapes, and then to develop them in to something
    more natural for them.\r\n\r\nBut for the first year or two of their handwriting
    education, kids are forced into creating awkward shapes that aren't the only way
    to draw a letter. If they don't conform to these letterforms, they get bad grades.
    I think that handwriting education needs to be reevaluated. It's okay to have
    an x-height that is not exactly half of the cap height. I think we also need to
    create a humanist, rather than geometric, handwriting education system. Kids may
    not learn to write as quickly, but the ones who have terrible handwriting from
    the start because they can't form perfect circles will probably benefit."
  created: '2008-09-25 16:34:10'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Why do we teach kids handwriting from geometric sans-serifs?</cite>\r\n\r\nBecause
    someone decided it was a good idea and the idea took root. America\u2019s schools
    are rarely designed to teach children to think critically, only to memorize without
    challenging, so now the idea is being protected by generations of mindless pedants.
    If we change handwriting then who knows what else would come flying out of Pandora\u2019s
    box? How exactly did Columbus discover America if people were already living here?
    Does anyone really think that Jefferson\u2019s sex with Sally Hemmings was entirely
    consensual? Why is Andrew Jackson, an architect of our nation\u2019s greatest
    genocide, still on the twenty? Opening a door to questions like these is not why
    American has indoctrination centers, I mean schools, so our absurd handwriting
    system will have to stay."
  created: '2008-09-25 17:01:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Reference to some good research might change my mind, but as of now my feeling
    is that this mania for the one story a and g only is a product of teachers who
    think they know better on the basis of nothing. \r\n\r\nAfter all the upper case
    and lower case forms are already different. Again, is there any evidence that
    this is a problem?\r\n\r\nJust teach the kids both. \r\n\r\nWhat does Sesame Street
    do? \r\n"
  created: '2008-09-25 17:36:04'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>What does Sesame Street do?</em>\r\n\r\nLooks like [[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SoB3oqtaJoE|Futura]]
    for minuscule and [[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nmUXB8fe6kw|Weimaraner]] for
    majuscule!"
  created: '2008-09-25 19:14:39'
- author:
    name: jshen
    picture: 113709
  body: I think teachers have enough of a challenge in the classroom without worrying
    about this issue. It doesn't bother me that they prefer to write with the one-story
    a and that later most book faces will use the two-story a for legibility. And
    I can understand why they want typefaces that will aid them in teaching writing.
    A teacher recently told me, and repeated it at a second meeting in case I hadn't
    gotten it, that her students would laboriously imitate the letterforms they saw
    in print, down to the serifs. She didn't want them spending time that particular
    way, so she wanted a typeface with simplified a and g. Where's the sin?
  created: '2008-09-25 19:46:28'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: But that's part of the problem; they've been taught to laboriously imitate,
    rather than to create something that resembles a generally accepted version of
    that letterform. There are as many different ways to write the letter a as there
    are people.
  created: '2008-09-25 20:33:22'
- author:
    name: jshen
    picture: 113709
  body: On the contrary, the teacher was not teaching them to imitate the serif typeface.
    They were doing it on their own. You're not suggesting we should encourage people
    to throw all norms for the form of a character out the window?
  created: '2008-09-25 20:47:52'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: "No, I'm not; I'm suggesting that the kids were imitating the serif typeface
    because that's all they've ever been taught \u2014 to imitate directly."
  created: '2008-09-25 21:03:13'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I'm not sure at what stage and in what order things should be taught. \r\n\r\nWhat
    I do think is that have three different shapes for the A is not a particular problem,
    even in first grade. They can be draw over a sans outline for all of them, if
    they want to get the feel. After all they will see them constantly when they read.\r\n\r\nAnd
    what is so bad about copying serifs? They can to both serifs and sans and recognize
    the difference.  \r\n\r\nSince I believe millions of Chinese kids are taught a
    couple of new characters a day, I just don't see this as a serious problem. I
    would like to see actual tests before I would be convinced that you have to wait
    a very long time--say over a year--to introduce variant forms. "
  created: '2008-09-25 23:27:53'
- author:
    name: David Sudweeks
    picture: 112594
  body: Hey Sarah! You might also mention to the kids that it's easy (and fun) to
    make their own fonts online using <strong><a href="http://fontstruct.fontshop.com/">FontStruct</a></strong>.
  created: '2008-09-26 01:33:44'
- author:
    name: type.nasos
    picture: 112690
  body: "Hmm, let them play with inks and pens\r\nand try combine it with history,
    would be\r\nnice, educational and fun."
  created: '2008-09-26 08:53:22'
- author:
    name: Graham McArthur
    picture: 109915
  body: "Michael, stop me before I get myself into trouble.\r\nGood advice from type.nasos.\r\nFrom
    my own experience I can assure you all that young kids will love playing with
    any media and making letters of all sorts. My father began my letter education
    with a pencil and roman caps, followed by speedball nibs and ink. All this before
    I went to school or learnt to read. I still love the pencil and roman caps. Get
    them into it as early as you can [so long as it is fun and full of encouragement]."
  created: '2008-09-26 11:01:26'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "No worries mate.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-09-26 12:48:03'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"My problem probably stems more from the fact that my younger son is uncommonly
    lazy. No joke.\"\r\n\r\nThere is 'lazy' and then there is 'smart enough to realize
    the silly repetitive handwriting exercises in grade school really have little
    to do with the success or lack thereof in his future'. ;o)\r\n\r\nI suck at handwriting,
    always have, except for those intermediary stints as a draftsman. I'm OK a lettering,
    but not writing.\r\n\r\nOur second grader despised handwriting, but can probably
    type faster than I ever will be able to already at 7 years old.\r\n\r\nHandwriting
    is a necessary skill, of course, but things like cursive and the like, IMHO, are
    a colossal waste of time when taught at the gradeschool level. These kids are
    growing up with keyboards, cell phones, touch screens, etc.\r\n\r\nTo these kids,
    having to plow through handwriting class probably seems as pointless as if we
    having to take blackletter calligraphy classes when we were kids in the 70s/80s.
    \r\n\r\nNot that any of this has anything to do with you teaching type and typography
    and even lettering. That's important. "
  created: '2008-09-26 15:18:50'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "Regarding any defense of the one-storey as acceptable teaching:\r\n\r\nAll
    I'm saying is the two-storey a is not only better (simply because it does not
    resemble any other letter) than the one-storey a, but it is in fact EASIER to
    draw than the one-storey a. Therefore, it's stupid that we don't teach it.\r\n\r\nReally...how
    many kids can line up that vertical stroke so that it comes right down perfectly
    tangent to the bowl of the one-storey a without intersecting it? Whereas with
    the two-storey a, the counter comes AFTER the vertical stroke, which makes perfect
    sense. And please pardon my possible misuse of the bowl/counter terminology (I
    like type a lot, but I don't design it, and my vocabulary is close but not perfect!).\r\n\r\nAnd
    as far as cursive being a colossal waste of time...I disagree completely. Suck
    at it or not suck at it, it's good to encourage kids to express themselves with
    their hands and their handwriting. We are humans, and as much as we're all on
    the same team, our individuality is an essential part of what makes each one of
    us beautiful in his or her own way. We are not all Times New Roman or Arial, and
    not all children have Typophiles for parents.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-26 15:41:04'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"it\u2019s good to encourage kids to express themselves with their hands
    and their handwriting\"\r\n\r\nI agree! That said, forcing them to use a draconian
    and very specific type of handwriting seems less about personal expression and
    more about 'just do as I say and shutup'.\r\n\r\nAnd don't get me started on English
    teachers in highschool who still mark down papers that don't double space after
    periods... ;o)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-26 16:19:28'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "Holy old school, aluminum! I'm laying out a mailer as we speak, dumping in
    content from a provided Word doc. I am so sick of the double-space find/change
    routine I have to through with every job I perform. Okay, sorry...that's off topic...somebody
    underail this thread!\r\n\r\nI think we can all agree that introducing second
    graders to typography is a good idea.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-26 17:23:10'
- author:
    name: winge
    picture: 109439
  body: "<cite>\"Really...how many kids can line up that vertical stroke so that it
    comes right down perfectly tangent to the bowl of the one-storey a without intersecting
    it?\"</cite></cite>\r\n\r\nThis got me curious. How do you mean that the kids
    are taught to draw a one-storey a? Do you imply that they draw a \"c\", and then
    lift the pen to draw the closing stroke? Or with one continous stroke? In any
    case, I don't see how it would frequently cause an intersection."
  created: '2008-09-26 18:23:08'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Aluminum... \"I agree! That said, forcing them to use a draconian and very
    specific type of handwriting seems less about personal expression and more about
    \u2019just do as I say and shutup\u2019.\"\r\n\r\nMaybe I am wrong, but after
    all is said and done I always viewed the handwriting ordeal for beginning students
    as the one of the first endeavors to learn discipline, in the educational system,
    tenacity and ultimately an individual reward system (payoff for effort [they call
    it self esteem these days]). The fact that it was the second \"branch\" of communication,
    first being speech, made it all the more important.\r\n\r\nI do what I do today
    as a result of my fascination with handwriting when I was growing up. I remember
    in the 5th grade my teacher pissed me off. So, in retaliation I wrote my assignment
    in print that was less than 1/8\" high. She was old and struggled with it but
    gave me a good grade, BUT chastised me for trying to drive her crazy. Mission
    accomplished, but it showed me the power of the written form.\r\n\r\n Michael"
  created: '2008-09-26 19:54:31'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "typerror...I'm guessing that sounds about right for most of us. I guess my
    point is that times have changes. The written form is still important. But it's
    changed. No one writes cursive anymore. Everyone texts on a cell phone. Same written
    communication, just doing it different.\r\n\r\nI'm sure it depends on the child
    as well. My son has trouble with handwriting to the point where it can become
    a hindrance to learning the subject matter. At the same time, he can whip out
    all sorts of stuff via KidPix just fine. \r\n\r\nI'm more of a fan of accommodating
    the students style. I like the idea of bringing in the concept of graphic design
    and typography and letting children explore the many many variables and options
    rather than 'just do it this one specific prescribed way'.\r\n\r\nI still kind
    of hold resentments to the fact that it wasn't until I entered college that I
    had any clue that one could actually make a living at being a designer. I don't
    know anyone that makes a living writing cursive. Calligraphy, maybe... ;o)"
  created: '2008-09-26 20:46:02'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Just a side note Darrel.... I was called queer in school because of my hand
    writing. Saw one of my taunters a couple of years back... blew out his knees in
    his first year with the Green Bay Packers and works for a beer distributorship.
    He asked me what I did and I said I made my living off the \"queer handwriting,\"
    married and three children!\r\n\r\nP.s. Did a bunch of work for the national corp.
    that manufactures his beer.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-09-26 21:02:28'
- author:
    name: Therese Brockie
    picture: 115843
  body: "So? Is that supposed to be some 'queer guy' makes good story? Is working
    for a beer distributor bad? God guys are pathetic, so what did you prove? That
    you aren't queer cos you are married with children? That you can make money out
    of typography? Wow, well done you. Clap, clap clap. \r\n\r\nI just hate this sort
    of 'holier than thou' attitude that 99% of guys have, its so unnecessary.\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-26 21:36:29'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: Did we grow up in the same town in Wisconsin? ;0)
  created: '2008-09-26 21:37:52'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "Oh, boy...Wisconsinites unite! (Morris Benton included, of course!)\r\n\r\nI
    think it's neat that heterosexuals can be artists, too.\r\n\r\nMr Winge, as for
    the vertical stroke intersecting the bowl of a one-storey a, we are taught (at
    least this is how I remember it) to first draw a circle (or an o) and then add
    a vertical stroke on the right, tangent to the circle. And if we were taught to
    first draw a c, creating one with perfectly aligned points on the right and then
    drawing a straight vertical that doesn't intersect the curve would also be tricky
    for a child. Much more reasonable, as stated over and over, is to draw the two-storey
    a, with the bowl being the second stroke, starting and stopping at the vertical.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-26 21:58:53'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Ah, queer eye for the beer guy? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-26 22:17:19'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Did I do something wrong? I just thought it was a cute aside.\r\n\r\n Michael"
  created: '2008-09-26 22:26:59'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "<cite>Much more reasonable, as stated over and over, is to draw the two-storey
    a, with the bowl being the second stroke, starting and stopping at the vertical.\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat?
    You wouldn't write the two-story a as you would a 2 with a loop in the corner?
    Seems to be easier that way. All done without having to lift the pen or backtrack."
  created: '2008-09-26 22:47:24'
- author:
    name: bemerx25
    picture: 112539
  body: I didn't find Michael's aside offensive - the word "queer" is often used in
    English to denote something strange, odd, or even different, something not ordinary.
    I didn't read it as the slang pejorative that others seem to be reading into it.
  created: '2008-09-26 22:56:46'
- author:
    name: mila
    picture: 114404
  body: "hi sarah, can you show them manual composition? do you have access to any
    manual composing machine? \r\n\r\n6 years old kids are able to learn how to use
    it, they love it and can make their own journal while they are still learning
    how to read (i can tell you by my own experience).\r\n\r\nsee below what robin
    kinross wrote about it:\r\n\r\n\"In fact I\u2019d become interested in typography
    earlier on, when I was still at secondary school, about 15 years old. Actually
    this is quite a common story here in England. There was a little press at school.
    This was part of the art department: the drawing teacher had decided to get a
    press. Somehow I was drawn to this, especially setting type by hand. I can remember
    being so excited that I couldn\u2019t sleep at night: it was that kind of real
    love.\"\r\n\r\n(http://www.hyphenpress.co.uk/journal/2000/08/21/kinross_interview)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-26 22:57:54'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "> <cite>...do something wrong?</cite>\r\n\r\nI thought it was cute, too,
    but my remark was sincere. Let's make one thing clear, I'm no homophobe...I completely
    understand that homosexuals have contributed a LOT to our culture. I love 'em.
    But I, too, have often had my sexuality questioned thanks to my artistic nature.\r\n\r\n>
    <cite> All done without having to lift the pen...</cite>\r\n\r\nNo, I'd draw it
    calligraphically, and that's how I taught my kid to do it, and her a's looked
    great almost instantly."
  created: '2008-09-26 23:04:21'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "So, am I to take it she, or others, thought I was a homophobe?  How ludicrous
    and how can one extrapolate that from my statement? Jeez, I give up!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-09-26 23:14:25'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Coming from the guy who attacked me at the beginning of the thread for an
    innocent comment, that's kind of funny. Everybody needs to just draw a deep breath,
    okay? Else this thread will be far off topic, and not in a particularly interesting
    or constructive way....\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-09-27 01:01:51'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "I simply pointed out you were being a bit harsh! And if I remember correctly
    you sort of apologized later in an indirect way.\r\n\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-09-27 01:27:12'
- author:
    name: Therese Brockie
    picture: 115843
  body: "If you weren't being a homophobe I apologise, but i don't understand why
    guys even think its an issue calling someone queer or being called a queer. Get
    over it. And trust me, being married with kids is not an honour badge to go around
    proving that you are not gay. Thats just so offensive and wrong on so many levels.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    as Thomas said, if you dish it out don't get offended when someone does the same
    to you, but I agree this is going off topic now. Lets draw a line under it."
  created: '2008-09-27 08:49:01'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Lets draw a line under it.\r\n\r\nGood point. Let's move onto something
    less controversial...\r\n\r\n>Also...teach them to identify Comic Sans and emphasize
    that they should feel free to ridicule everyone that uses said font. \r\n\r\nMakes
    me wonder if the Nazi's did a similar thing with blackletter in schools when they
    declared it a Jewish font style?\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-27 18:36:24'
date: '2008-09-23 23:46:49'
title: Typography for Second Graders

---
