---
author:
  name: Typography.Guru
  picture: 110253
body: "In August 2008 someone from Brest, France bought my font Logotypia Pro from
  MyFonts:\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/fdi/logotypia-pro/\r\n\r\nThat same person
  is also registered for the website of a type foundry from Brest, France:\r\nhttp://www.gasoligne.com/\r\n\r\nOne
  month after the purchase a new font is released at this foundry:\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/gasoligne/urqinoa/\r\n\r\nEvery
  glyph was modified more or less, but looking at the character map there is no doubt,
  that this font is directly based on the digital data of my font Logotypia Pro. They
  even kept all my beginner's mistakes from 2004. \r\n\r\nHere is an overlay of both
  fonts:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Bild12_3455.png]\r\n\r\n\r\nSo, if
  you are a typedesigner, please have a look at their <a href=\"http://www.gasoligne.com/download.htm\">current</a>
  and <a href=\"http://www.gasoligne.com/in_progress.htm\">future</a> designs to check
  if one of your fonts was also ripped off. "
comments:
- author:
    name: 4thfebruary
    picture: 114255
  body: "Maybe this also RIP-OFF\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/L6Wlht0YAP_4285.jpg]\r\nhttp://www.t26.com/fonts/180-Aura\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/img_01big_6364.jpg]\r\nhttp://www.gasoligne.com/font_korsen.htm\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-25 13:02:58'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: Havent compared the two, but it sounds really terrible. Have you contacted
    them?
  created: '2008-09-25 13:03:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "That is disgraceful! I hope you can light a fire under their gasoline with
    a law suit.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-09-25 13:53:39'
- author:
    name: plainclothes
    picture: 110490
  body: keep in mind that these <em>modifications</em> result in substandard typefaces.
    just compare Aura to Korsen -- where did that &lsquo;y&rsquo; come from!? people
    who will be enticed by these poor pieces of <em>work</em> are probably not in
    the market for quality typefaces anyway. no excuse for the company's behavior,
    but hopefully some consolation.
  created: '2008-09-25 21:00:06'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "Their \"Abalys\" typeface is Frutiger with some corners rounded, right?\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-25 23:09:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I would like to see their corners rounded alright!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-09-25 23:49:52'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: I could MAYBE see them taking it verbatim to resell for a quick buck, but
    they actually took the time to modify each letter? That is just dumb. Then again,
    criminals were never really the smartest in general.
  created: '2008-09-26 15:23:24'
- author:
    name: David Ford
    picture: 115355
  body: I don't know if this is true or not, I've never had to check. But at college
    I was told if you modify a typeface by at least 20% then its considered original
    (in the law's eyes). Which in this case would explain why they took the time to
    modify each letter - to not break copyright laws (although its still a blatant
    and shocking rip-off).
  created: '2008-09-26 16:14:41'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: There are no hard-and-fast rules when it comes to the legalities of derivative
    work. It's often up to the eyes of the beholder, offender, judge, and, of course,
    the lawyers that are paid the most.
  created: '2008-09-26 16:17:03'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">if you modify a typeface by at least 20%\r\n\r\nEven if that's accurate
    it would relate to redrawing, not opening up in FontLab and moving a few points
    (AKA SSI).\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-26 18:43:01'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: Il n'est pas bon gar.
  created: '2008-09-27 00:55:43'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "Gone.\r\n<a href=\"http://www.gasoligne.com/>www.gasoligne.com</a>\r\nLatecomers
    to this thread can see the fonts at <a href=\"http://www.identifont.com/show?N2I\">Identifont</a>.\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-27 03:28:20'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Much to my surprise, Myfonts alias Bitstream removed the forgeries:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/gasoligne/urqinoa/\r\n\r\nThe
    is astonishing, because the Bitstream outfit sells thousands of forgeries, besides
    its own forgeries made by David Berlow, Matthew Carter, Mike Parker and the other
    rip-off experts who forged the Linotype fonts described in http://www.forgers.de/bitstream2.pdf.\r\n\r\nFor
    historians of font forgeries, I append a few statements about this Gasoligne font
    forging outfit from the shut-down website:\r\n\r\n<strong>Legal Notices:</strong>\r\n\r\nGASOLIGNE
    TYPOFONDERIE\r\nSARL GASOLIGNE\r\n503 431 405 RCS BREST\r\nFRANCE\r\nAPE 1813Z\r\nTVA
    CEE\r\n\r\nGASOLIGNE INC. \r\n8 RUE JEAN GOSSET \r\n29200 BREST \r\nFRANCE\r\n\r\nFrance:
    http://www.gasoligne.com/\r\n\r\n<strong>Blurb:</strong>\r\n\r\nGasoligne\xAE
    is a new french independent digital type foundry, born from the passion of 2 brothers
    for grafizm.\r\nGasoligne\xAE designs, manufactures and sells high quality typefaces.\r\nThis
    website is the best and first place in the world to find our typefaces.\r\n\r\nProfessionnels.\r\nNous
    r\xE9alisons des polices d'\xE9critures g\xE9n\xE9rales disponibles \xE0 la vente
    aupr\xE8s des professionnels et particuliers, mais r\xE9alisons \xE9galement tous
    types de commandes sp\xE9ciales.\r\nEn effet l'identit\xE9 d'une marque, d'une
    soci\xE9t\xE9 passe par son logo, sa communication commerciale et publicitaire
    mais plus encore que le message lui-m\xEAme, l'\xE9criture dessinant ce message
    devient identitaire. C'est pourquoi nous r\xE9alisons \xE9galement des polices
    d'\xE9critures exclusives. Nous pouvons \xE9galement d\xE9cliner une police \xE0
    partir de votre logo. Nous r\xE9pondons \xE0 toutes vos demandes.\r\n\r\nQualit\xE9
    et fiabilit\xE9.\r\nNous proposons \xE0 la vente nos cr\xE9ations de polices d'\xE9critures,
    mais avant cela nous \xE9tions nous-m\xEAmes clients et le sommes toujours ! C'est
    pour cela que nous apportons \xE0 nos cr\xE9ations ce que nous attendons des autres
    : des r\xE9alisations rigoureuses. Avant toute mise en vente nous r\xE9alisons
    de multiples tests et essais de nos cr\xE9ations en version b\xE9ta, qui sont
    remani\xE9es de tr\xE8s nombreuses fois jusqu'\xE0 ce que nous en soyons r\xE9\xE9llement
    et compl\xE8tement satisfait. Votre satisfaction est la n\xF4tre.\r\n\r\nExp\xE9rience.\r\nFort
    de plusieurs ann\xE9es de cr\xE9ations dans le monde du graphisme et de la calligraphie,
    le d\xE9veloppement professionnel nous a amen\xE9 \xE0 cette typofonderie qui
    constitue l'aboutissement d'un projet. Mais ce projet marque d\xE9sormais le commencement
    d'un nouveau d\xE9veloppement dont de nombreux partenaires professionnels font
    d\xE9j\xE0 partie.\r\n\r\n<strong>Latest Forgeries:</strong>\r\n\r\nSeptember
    2008\r\n Urqinoa\u2122 now available on myfonts.com\r\n Veeko Wide\u2122 is a
    \"starlet\" on myfonts.com !\r\nAugust 2008\r\n NeborgSans\u2122 is a \"starlet\"
    on myfonts.com !\r\n Roundabats\u2122 now available on myfonts.com\r\n Veeko Wide\u2122
    now available on myfonts.com\r\n Neborg\u2122 & NeborgSans\u2122 at 30% off on
    myfonts.com ! (end 01 sept)\r\n NeborgSans\u2122 now available on myfonts.com\r\nNew
    fonts in progress: Barobats\u2122 & Practicitymap\u2122\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-27 07:40:06'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "After all this noise, the Gasoligne Foundry has announced to stop selling
    fonts alltogether. So the removal from MyFonts was initiated by Gasoligne. Case
    closed. \r\n"
  created: '2008-09-27 08:04:32'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "I forgot to mention the identity of the Gasoligne owner:\r\n\r\n**Content
    removed by moderator**"
  created: '2008-09-27 08:09:17'
- author:
    name: Therese Brockie
    picture: 115843
  body: Why are you posting people's personal addresses and things? They shut it down,
    what else do you want? You want a hate mob outside their house or something? Yipes,
    you can leave it alone now.
  created: '2008-09-27 08:37:43'
- author:
    name: Stephen Rapp
    picture: 111901
  body: 'MyFonts is good about removing fonts that are sold with questionable origins.
    They''ve taken off 2 designs that were copies of proprietary handlettering fonts
    from the greeting card company where I work. I sometimes wish they''d take it
    the next step and remove the person doing it from the list. Instead, she is at
    times featured there and I know she has other questionable font sources. '
  created: '2008-09-27 12:37:19'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Therese: In the US of A the local police distributes flyers with the name,
    address and description (and photo!) of known sex-offenders who have moved into
    a neighbourhood to \u2018warn\u201D the inhabitants of this neighbourhood.\r\nMaybe
    an extreme example\u2026\r\nBut I for one appreciate knowing who the bad guys
    are. Even when it is a \u2018soft crime\u2019 like ripping off IP.\r\n\r\n. .
    .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2008-09-28 11:39:20'
- author:
    name: Therese Brockie
    picture: 115843
  body: "Well surely the sex-offenders are convicted criminals? They've gone through
    a legal process and the proper authorities have decided that its in the community's
    interest to know those details.\r\n\r\nThere is a big difference between due legal
    process and some idiot on the internet who has taken it upon themselves to be
    judge, jury and executioner."
  created: '2008-09-28 12:03:03'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: In the bizarre world of the font forging industry, those who do not disclose
    their real names ("Therese Brockie" is a pseudonym) complain about those who disclose
    the names of anonymous font forgers.
  created: '2008-09-28 13:13:35'
- author:
    name: Vivio Russ
  body: "Hi Typophile community!\r\n\r\nI agree with Therese Brockie, being judge,
    jury and executionner on this case is a bit too much...\r\nAbout Korsen, it's
    similar to aura, the same sci-fi spirit I mean... but miniskip http://www.dafont.com/fr/miniskip.font
    , epyval http://www.searchfreefonts.com/free/epyval.htm or the caps of cabourg
    http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/t26/cabourg/light/charmap.html are also too... the
    design is close but different... I am more worried about the share of commercial
    fonts or the copy of existing design distributed freely... some font recently
    released like Flavour from Hubert Jocham is really close from P22 Pooper Black,
    and how about CK tea Party and Clarissa???, there is plenty examples...\r\nFor
    me a same spirit design can't be associated to ripping without evidence...\r\nJust
    my opinion :)"
  created: '2008-09-28 13:28:45'
- author:
    name: Vivio Russ
  body: "The more chocking thing I've seen is the ITC Blaze case: ITC sell his font
    here: http://www.itcfonts.com/Fonts/Detail.htm?pid=203664 but on many freefontsites
    you can find the exactly same one: [Link removed by Moderator. Please do not post
    links to sites that share the IP of others.]\r\nSomeone can explain that to me???\r\nthe
    same case happenned with the Zephyr font: http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/ihof/zephyr/\r\nwhich
    have been distributed freely under another name on dafont during a short time
    but deleted quickly..."
  created: '2008-09-28 14:19:56'
- author:
    name: Freeza
    picture: 114205
  body: "Uli, posting others personal info isn't nice at all... I would sugest deleting
    that post.\r\n\r\n-\r\n\r\nwww.nunocoelho.com"
  created: '2008-09-28 14:23:35'
- author:
    name: Therese Brockie
    picture: 115843
  body: Apparently that uli guy is a bit of a nutcase so i doubt he'll remove it,
    but at least the moderators should.
  created: '2008-09-28 16:16:12'
- author:
    name: Vivio Russ
  body: yep, this post should be deleted...
  created: '2008-09-28 16:32:26'
- author:
    name: Solt
    picture: 111762
  body: "Uli likes to play the bloodhound of the typographic industry. but those \"disclosed\",
    \"personal\" informations are taken from the public WHOIS entry and from some
    yellow pages. nothing personal, nothing to disclose. nothing to get so excited
    about.\r\n\r\nBert, the sex-offender comparison is really a bit stupid."
  created: '2008-09-28 17:44:11'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> \u201Cpersonal\u201D informations \r\n\r\nI never spoke of \"personal\"
    data. Margor is correct. There is nothing personal about the postal address of
    a company and about the name of the manager of this company. Who thinks that such
    public company data must not be told should have his head examined in a loony
    bin.\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-28 17:56:38'
- author:
    name: Timo Ilola
    picture: 115929
  body: Don't see anybody cheering the effort of posting the info here, though...
  created: '2008-09-28 19:08:48'
- author:
    name: Therese Brockie
    picture: 115843
  body: "Where the details are from is irrelevant, its posting those details in connection
    with the allegations thats the issue. \r\n\r\nIt would take me about 5 minutes
    to ascertain similar info for Uli and post it to some forum saying hes committed
    whatever crime. The point is he has no right to be judge, juror and executioner."
  created: '2008-09-28 19:43:29'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Vivio... the caps are very different in the font you referred to (for better
    or worse). I appreciate your keen eye though!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-09-29 00:25:04'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "Sorry to crash the party all, but it has been requested that the personal
    information of this foundry owner be removed, so it has been. I realize it is
    easy information to obtain, but I must kindly ask on behalf of others who don't
    seem to want to defend themselves, not to post it here. What you do with it outside
    of Typophile is your business.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-29 02:52:37'
- author:
    name: Therese Brockie
    picture: 115843
  body: Thank you Zara
  created: '2008-09-29 08:02:56'
- author:
    name: Vivio Russ
  body: "Hi Michael, I made a mistake on the weight, it's Cabourg Bold's Caps I wanted
    to refer^^\r\nI don't know if I have a keen eye but I just wanted to say that
    creating a same spirit design in the korsen case is NOT ripping for me...\r\nSee
    ya :)"
  created: '2008-09-29 08:32:23'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> Sorry to crash the party all, but it has been requested that the personal
    information of this foundry owner be removed, so it has been. \r\n\r\nI only stated
    the name of the manager (French: g\xE9rant) prescribed by law. The name of the
    manager of a company is not \"personal information\", but information prescribed
    by law. For obvious reasons, this manager tried to hide his identity which is
    forbidden. According to European Community laws, it is illegal for internet companies
    to keep secret the identity of the manager who is liable for the company.\r\n\r\nGermans
    may read this:\r\n\r\nhttp://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Impressumspflicht\r\n\r\nSince
    the Typophile moderators protects shady outfits who sell ripped-off fonts, it
    is understandable that the name of the manager was removed by the moderators in
    order to make it difficult for the deceived buyers to claim damages for having
    bought ripped-off fonts, especially now that the shady outfit shut down the website
    and went into hiding so that the dimwitted font buyers will have difficulty to
    find out the address of the manager.\r\n\r\nHowever, victims of the shady Gasoligne
    outfit may contact me for the address of the manager or \"g\xE9rant\".\r\n\r\nThe
    imprint at my website http://www.sanskritweb.net/imprint.htm contains my real
    name and address prescribed by law (although my website is a private website).\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-29 09:37:35'
- author:
    name: Vivio Russ
  body: "hum, yeah but it's only your opinion and not proved facts...\r\nYOU decided
    that their fonts were ripping...\r\nare you a lawyer, a judge, an internet-cyber-cop
    or an official organism who can decide if it's ripping or not?... I don't think
    so ;)\r\nSo as Ralf Hermann said \"the Gasoligne Foundry has announced to stop
    selling fonts alltogether. So the removal from MyFonts was initiated by Gasoligne.
    Case closed.\"\r\nDon't understand why you want to find problem where there isn't...\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-29 11:05:10'
- author:
    name: bobstradling
  body: "What qualifies as a rip off?\r\n\r\nIn my opinion most type design starts
    from some other type design.\r\n\r\nAt school I was taught to draw type based
    on the ancient Roman style, namely the capitals on Hadrian's column. \r\n\r\nIs
    Trajanus a rip off then?\r\n\r\nI don't think so.\r\n\r\nI am 69 years old, soon
    to be seventy. I started out as a lettering artist at a large London advertising
    agency in the fifties. These were the days before photosetting and digital type.
    Every art director at that company would ask me to draw the headlines \"like\"
    some typestyle or another.\r\n\r\nHaving read most of the posts here, it seems
    to me that there is a difference between plagiarism and copyright theft. I have
    assumed that by rip off, plagiarism is what is meant.\r\n\r\nBob"
  created: '2008-09-29 12:29:02'
- author:
    name: Vivio Russ
  body: "I agree, \r\nbut if we have a look on a font by Ralf Herrmann called Agendia,
    there are many similarities with Envision http://www.t26.com/fonts/444-Envision
    or Amerika http://www.dafont.com/fr/amerika.font but we can't consider Agendia
    as a rip-off... however their designs are really close..."
  created: '2008-09-29 12:44:09'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Therese: In the US of A the local police distributes flyers with the name,
    address and description (and photo!) of known sex-offenders who have moved into
    a neighbourhood to \u2018warn\u201D the inhabitants of this neighbourhood.\"\r\n\r\nJust
    this week flyers were passed around our neck of the woods. Apparently a convicted
    font forger is moving in down the street. I've warned the kids to stay away from
    that house as they have no idea where those fonts have been. They could easily
    be tainted with nasty auto-tracing and dangerous kerning.\r\n\r\nThe biggest fear
    is the culprit soliciting kids on the street and passing out illicit floppies
    from a font lab in the basement. Illegal font labs are a real menace. Once discovered
    they have to scrub the entire property hauling out all sorts of toxic bits and
    bytes. A real mess."
  created: '2008-09-29 15:07:47'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Agendia & Co: I fail to see \"many similarities\" except that all three belong
    to the same genre, to which you may also add Jeremy Tankard's Alchemy and others.
    I only speak of same genre, not same quality.\r\n\r\nWhether plagiarism or not
    depends. I assume Ralf knows his own outlines well enough to see if somebody merely
    moved some nodes or changed details, indicated by his remark \"They even kept
    all my beginner\u2019s mistakes from 2004.\"\r\nWith Aura/Korsen it <em>could</em>
    be a different case: The simpler the idea, the more geometric or pixelated typefaces
    get, and the coarser their grids, the more likely it is that such typefaces look
    very much the same. But it seems it <em>is not</em> a different case as indicated
    by details: e.g. in <em>both</em> typefaces, the rounding in bottom horizontal
    of \"e\" and top horizontal of \"a\" direct outwards rather than inwards (as would
    seem more \"natural\" to me)."
  created: '2008-09-29 16:15:51'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> Just this week flyers were passed around ...\r\n\r\naluminum:\r\n\r\nI
    couldn't help but laugh. Very good joke. Thanks.\r\n\r\nYour joke is similar to
    one of the best jokes I ever saw on Typophile written by ChrisL. It described
    the bizarre Berthold lawsuits concerning the generic trademarks \"city\", \"grotesque\",
    \"ligature\", \"accidence\" etc. ChrisL wrote:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"Will New York City
    have to change its name now for fear of a law suit from Berthold? What about the
    classic film \"City Lights\"? That's of course too silly, so silly it is grotesk.
    (OOOPS!!) I didn't mean to say GROTESK, it was just an akzident; I mean I said
    it akzidently, err, accidently. It was a grotesque accident! Oh, crap, I live
    in a city and created a grotesque accident! DUCK!!! I hear the sound of lawyers
    zipping their briefs! I was so font of grotesque accidents in the City untill
    lawyers started Ligaturegation--er ligagation, darn litigation!!! OK! OK!!!, I
    will cease and desist. ChrisL\"</cite>\r\n.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-29 16:18:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks for the props, Uli. I had forgotten about that one :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-09-29 16:22:39'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>What qualifies as a rip off?</cite>\r\n\r\nI think that tweaking existing
    outlines and selling them constitutes a rip-off. And apparently the foundry in
    question agreed, given how quickly that web site disappeared."
  created: '2008-09-29 17:16:31'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Yoda Chris.... you are wise and funny man! I finally saw the resemblance!
    That is a compliment : )\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-09-29 17:45:51'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Sorry if my example offended\u2026 Maybe I should adapt it somewhat like:\r\nIn
    a certain under-developed country the authorities disclose the identities of criminals
    to warn the general public. \r\nThey call it forewarning. You may call it breach
    of privacy.\r\nI don\u201Dt care either way.\r\n\r\nUli\u2019s post is no more
    or less than what lots of \u2018authorities\u2019 do.\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen
    BNO"
  created: '2008-09-29 18:04:16'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Uli\u2019s post is no more or less than what lots of \u2018authorities\u2019
    do.\"\r\n\r\nI don't think anyone was offended. But to continue the analogy, there
    are plenty of arguments for NOT doing that as well...be it Uli with font designers
    or the police with local offenders."
  created: '2008-09-29 18:45:38'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "<cite>Since the Typophile moderators protects shady outfits who sell ripped-off
    fonts\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nUli, this is one more example of you making a claim
    that simply is not true and it is laughable. Aside from Chris' jokes, the things
    that comes out of Uli's mouth are truly the most humorous around here.\r\n\r\n
    I, too, find the sudden disappearance of the foundry and their fonts somewhat
    telling. I have been in touch with \"our friend\" over at Gasoligne, and he is
    making some interesting and ridiculous claims on this issue. I advised him that
    if he wants to defend himself and has nothing to hide, he should consider participating
    here as well as offline with other parties involved.\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-29 18:47:52'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "Wow, what have I started here!? ;-)\r\n\r\nOn the matter of inspiration vs.
    rip-offs: \r\nThere is no useful font without inspiration from other typefaces.
    We always built our work on other peoples work. But that's not the point here.
    In every little detail, in every curve and anchor point of Logotypia Pro I made
    lots of design decisions. No other type designer would make these choices in an
    identical way, even if this person would digitize my font from a print-out. So
    when I look at the font mentioned in the first post, I clearly see a font, that
    was build from the outlines of Logotypia Pro. This is a violation of the End User
    License Agreement and must be stopped. It's not a question of an \"inspired\"
    type design. \r\nI contacted the Gasoligne foundry and they took their website
    down within minutes after my email and also asked MyFonts to remove the fonts.
    There is nothing more for me to ask for. I don't know if their other fonts are
    rip-offs. That's why the title of this thread has a question mark and that's why
    I asked other designers to have a look at the Gasoligne fonts. \r\n\r\nI also
    knew the name and address of the Gasoligne owner when I started this thread, but
    there was no need to point this information out to anybody here. I have no reason
    to denunciate or defame the Gasoligne owner in any way aside from the (to me obvious)
    case of Logotypia vs. Urqinoa. He has made a mistake and he has reacted as quickly
    as possible when it came to light. So I'm fine with that and I don't hold a grudge
    against him (any more). We all make mistakes sometimes, don't we? \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-29 19:36:33'
- author:
    name: Vivio Russ
  body: "For me the whole fonts and the foundry disappearred because he didn't want
    to drag such a reputation...\r\nI didn't find any likeness with other designs
    concerning the other fonts from Gasoligne..."
  created: '2008-09-29 19:48:43'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Therese: In the US of A the local police distributes flyers with the
    name, address and description (and photo!) of known sex-offenders who have moved
    into a neighbourhood to \u2018warn\u201D the inhabitants of this neighbourhood.</em>\r\n\r\nBert,
    how does this actually \"help\" the inhabitants of a neighborhood -- besides causing
    a lot of panic? What can people actually do with such \"information\", besides
    feel fear?"
  created: '2008-09-30 05:36:19'
- author:
    name: Dani08
  body: "I planned on purchasing a Gasoligne typeface today....completely unaware
    of the drama surrounding their type foundry.\r\nCan someone recommend a replacement
    typeface for Veeko-Wide? If they were rip-off masters there must be something
    close out there. My client has a very tiny budget. Thanks![img:sites/default/files/old-images/17036_3934.png]"
  created: '2008-09-30 21:44:40'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: <a href="http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/positype/kari/?refby=typographica">Kari</a>
  created: '2008-09-30 22:16:55'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "I am going to think some time about the answers I am going to give \u2014
    what I do know now is that its is quite significant that these guys took down
    their site and cancelled their main selling venue after being confronted by the
    IP-owner. And I also think that being unaware of the ramifictions of stealing
    someones IP does not cut it nowadays \u2014 if you are connected to the web, you
    can find out what it\u2019s all about.\r\n\r\nMore tomorrow re that other comment.
    (@Ricardo)\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2008-09-30 23:19:14'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "It does not surprise me that this Therese Brockie, who called me a nutcase
    in order to defend this Gasoligne outfit, is suddenly very silent.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-01 05:49:46'
- author:
    name: Therese Brockie
    picture: 115843
  body: The post was removed, what else is there for me to say except thank you?
  created: '2008-10-01 06:33:53'
- author:
    name: Vivio Russ
  body: "@ Stephen Coles: Veeko Wide looking like Kari ??????\r\nGot a problem with
    your eyes??\r\nI've never seen a type close to veeko...\r\nDani, maybe you could
    try to contact them directly... don't know their mail adress but you can try contact@...
    or info@... or such commun adress like that...\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-01 08:34:06'
- author:
    name: Vivio Russ
  body: "It's easy for me to make an overlay of two fonts of the same style and say:
    Oh my god! It's a rip!!!\r\nLet me laught, overlay types likes Frutiger, Myriad,
    Museo sans, Amescote or Humanist 777 and you'll find them really close!! But they
    have never been considered as ripping...\r\nCompare Fontella from canada type
    and Elite from DanXsolo...\r\nClarissa from paratype/typadelic and CK Tea Party
    from Scrapnfonts...\r\n\r\nRalph, in your first post you say that the person bought
    your font on myfonts and one month later Urqinoa was released, but if they're
    \"criminals\" like Uli and others said I think it's a little \"bizarre\" that
    they bought it... it only take few minutes to find your Logotypia pro for free
    on instant download on the net...\r\n\r\nI'm new here but I got the feeling that
    most of members are more here to destroy some reputation and people :/\r\nin this
    way I understand why they decided to stop selling fonts..."
  created: '2008-10-01 08:57:16'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "> I\u2019ve never seen a type close to veeko...\r\n\r\nWhich is why I had
    to venture a bit further afield and try to find something that hopefully approaches
    the flavor of the image I see above."
  created: '2008-10-01 10:02:44'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> if they\u2019re \u201Ccriminals\u201D like Uli and others said \r\n\r\nVivio
    Russ:\r\n\r\nI did not say that he who ran this Gasoligne outfit is a \"criminal\".
    Others in this thread used the word \"criminals\" as a misnomer, but not me. Forging
    fonts as such is no crime, whereas forging banknotes as such is a crime (at least
    most countries). Since typophilers have obviously never read any penal code, they
    think erroneously that he who is speaking of forgeries is necessarily speaking
    of crimes. But this is child-like thinking. It depends on what your forge, e.g.
    banknotes, cheques, signatures, paintings, fonts, etc. Fonts are no banknotes.
    Got it?"
  created: '2008-10-01 10:11:51'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: "Uli, that's because \"forgery\" is the wrong word. You should have noticed
    by now that you're the only person who uses it this way.\r\n\r\nZara: <cite>\"I
    advised him that if he wants to defend himself and has nothing to hide, he should
    consider participating here\"</cite>\r\nIf he did, he'd just be going toe-to-toe
    with Uli. How could anything coherent come out of that?"
  created: '2008-10-01 11:22:16'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>It\u2019s easy for me to make an overlay of two fonts of the same style
    and say: Oh my god! It\u2019s a rip!!!</cite>\r\n\r\nIf you use the digital data
    of those fonts, you violate the End User Licence Agreements. Again: that's(!)
    the problem discussed in this thread and I also made this very clear in my first
    post. It's not about stylistic similarities. It's about building and selling a
    new font based on the digital data of another font. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>\r\nI\u2019m
    new here but I got the feeling that most of members are more here to destroy some
    reputation and people :/\r\nin this way I understand why they decided to stop
    selling fonts...\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nPlease don't try to turn this whole story upside
    down. It almost sounds as I have put an honorable men out of business by making
    false accusation. The website of Gasoligne was closed immediately after I had
    written them an email about the case. This reaction can be only be understood
    as an confession of guilt. If my claims were unjustified, why should they react
    in such a way? \r\nAs I have previously said: I just needed to stop the selling
    of the Logotypia rip-off. I have no reason to tell anybody the name of the Gasoligne
    owner, nor am I interested in \"destroying anyones reputation\". \r\nUli might
    have a different approach in dealing with his \"funny font forging industry\",
    but that's a different story. Please don't lump us all together. "
  created: '2008-10-01 16:33:10'
- author:
    name: Vivio Russ
  body: "Hahaha...\r\nSo Why didn't you settled the problem with the owner just between
    you and him (and not on public place)?... I think you tried to put discredit on
    this foundry: even if they made a mistake creating a font close to your design,
    you said \"if you are a typedesigner, please have a look at their current and
    future designs to check if one of your fonts was also ripped off\"... It's a direct
    call to person likes Uli... also you wrote \"This reaction can be only be understood
    as an confession of guilt\" which is an easy shortcut for me, I hope you will
    never be in a jury ;)"
  created: '2008-10-01 17:05:31'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Vivio Russ:\r\n\r\n>Hahaha...\r\n\r\nMr. Herrmann was exceedingly moderate
    in his reactions.\r\n\r\nVivio Russ's comments are utterly ridiculous. Since you
    are from Italy, why don't you defend Silvio Berlusconi. Instead of \"font forgeries\",
    you could defend his \"election forgeries\".\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-01 17:32:24'
- author:
    name: Vivio Russ
  body: Wow!!! what an adult and intelligent answer :p
  created: '2008-10-01 17:44:24'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "Vivio,\r\ntake a look at your comments! You are excersising exactly the sort
    of public defamation which you are trying to criticize.  \r\nI was trying to respond
    to you as honest as possible, but you don't seem to be interested in my answers,
    as long as you cannot twist my words to support you opinion. On that account I
    am not going to continue this pointless discussion. "
  created: '2008-10-01 18:03:20'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "I am just curious Vivio. \r\n\r\nYou mentioned Flavour And Pooper Black.
    How would you classify their \"relationship?\"\r\n\r\nI think this may be illuminating
    Ralf!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-10-01 20:03:11'
- author:
    name: Vivio Russ
  body: "for me Flavour could easily just be a redraw of Pooper Black\r\nhttp://img128.imageshack.us/img128/8959/poopflavwg5.jpg"
  created: '2008-10-01 21:17:28'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Do you not see the differences in the caps and numbers? At what point does
    it depart from a redraw, or better yet - is it a rip or just another interpretation?
    And have you looked to see exactly what has changed in the lower case? I am just
    curious Vivio.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-10-01 21:41:18'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Thanks for the side by side. I wish you would have used the bolder weight
    ... it might have been more illuminating. But, as I said in an earlier post you
    have a keen eye!\r\n\r\nTake a very close look at the lowercase l.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-10-01 21:52:03'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "<cite>\"Uli, that\u2019s because \u201Cforgery\u201D is the wrong word. You
    should have noticed by now that you\u2019re the only person who uses it this way.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nCerulean
    (Mr. Pease):\r\n\r\nMazzone uses the word \"copyfraud\" instead of \"(copyright
    notice) forgery\".\r\n\r\nI suggest that you read his highly instructive 70-odd-page
    treatise about \"copyfraud\" published in this American law journal:\r\n\r\nsee
    http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=787244\r\n\r\nI repeatedly
    said that fonts are non-copyrightable and that users who, by way of EULA, pay
    for \"copyright\" licences to non-copyrightable fonts must be considered utter
    dimwits who can be most easily taken for a ride.\r\n\r\nIn his treatise, Mazzone
    came to the conclusion that not only ordinary Americans, but even American law
    students are dimwitted to such extent that they can be tricked into believing
    that they have to pay for \"copyright\" licences to non-existing copyrights, e.g.
    even for the \"privilege\" to quote from the American constitution. Mazzone writes
    on page 1028:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"A stunning example: A pocket version of the Constitution
    popular among law students contains a copyright notice, along with the admonition
    that \u201C[n]o part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any
    form or by any means . . . without permission in writing from the publisher. Whatever
    the Constitution\u2019s framers and ratifiers had in mind when they authorized
    Congress to create copyright law, they surely did not expect that somebody would
    one day claim a copyright in the Constitution itself.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nIs America
    an asylum for dimwits?"
  created: '2008-10-16 12:51:05'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Is America an asylum for dimwits?\"\r\n\r\nYep. And our IP lawmakers and
    enforcers are a bastion of them."
  created: '2008-10-16 14:52:35'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: "\u201CIs America an asylum for dimwits?\u201D\r\n\r\nnot really an asylum,
    more like a greenhouse.\r\n\r\nJason C"
  created: '2008-10-16 15:22:27'
- author:
    name: PauloDurrantez
  body: Edward Johnston and Eric Gill...
  created: '2008-10-16 16:01:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\" more like a greenhouse.\"\r\n\r\nperhaps that might be Whitehouse?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-10-16 16:04:24'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: could be the poorhouse.
  created: '2008-10-16 16:22:07'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "America and Typophile - the inmates are running the asylum ;-) ah, an idea
    for next year's t-shirt compo.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-16 16:28:50'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "\" could be the poorhouse. \"\r\n\r\nIt appears that all is being lined up
    from the bottom."
  created: '2008-10-18 21:06:02'
- author:
    name: koeiekat
    picture: 110312
  body: '@ Dani08: The Veeko is now sold by its designer, Florian Bambhout, at Bamboo
    Types: http://www.bambootypes.com/oxea_veeko.htm'
  created: '2008-12-30 14:40:38'
date: '2008-09-25 12:25:04'
title: Another Rip-off foundry?

---
