---
author:
  name: paulsschwarz
  picture: 113501
body: "I usually approach this forum with a design that I like and then I put it out
  there for people to confirm I'm on the right track... which I never am! So this
  time I want to do things differently, I want to talk to the forum right from the
  conceptual stage so that my mind is open.\r\n\r\nWellsense is a company that is
  being set up in Africa and it is currently two women who are medical doctors. They
  are academic and hands-on.\r\n\r\nThe idea is that they are setting up a company
  which offers consultancy, be it to medical research institutes or to clinics and
  hospitals.\r\n\r\nThey said they wanted the identity to be unmistakably African
  and they mentioned red earth tones. They also did me a huge service in fishing out
  some Egyptian symbols which mean things like wisdom, medicine, enlightenment, etc.
  All the stuff they believe they stand for.\r\n\r\nI am brain storming and using
  pen and paper only (I used to dive straight into Illustrator).\r\n\r\nI don't want
  to put images up straight away because this limits creativity so I just wanted to
  explain what I have so far and then see if anyone is kind enough to throw in other
  suggestions.\r\n\r\nSo far what I have is the word wellsense with no space between
  well and sense, all lower case, although maybe WellSense might work too. I then
  have picked an Egyptian symbol which means \"wise medicine man\" apparently! It's
  quite neat, it looks a little like the old Umbro logo. It is a diamond <> shape
  with another diamond shape inside and then a small dot inside that, so it's like
  an eye, but angular. I wanted to have that in the background and slightly above
  the text. So you'd have this diamond <> shape and then infront you'd have wellsense
  written in something like the facebook logo font, or the [[http://blog.eachday.com/2007/8/1/bubble-logo-insanity|eachday
  logo]] font, (it's sans serif and rounded, but sort of square at the same time,
  I like it. OR the other option is something murcurius which is quite interesting.
  It sometimes looks like it belongs on a cosmetics label but somehow it might work
  for wellsense. The text or background can be earthy tones, like I was thinking a
  reddy brown, then an ochre colour somewhere for contrast and then maybe throw in
  some bright blue somewhere, be it in the logo or elsewhere like as a motif that
  is present in their brochures, website, business cards, etc.\r\n\r\nA question I
  have is, you know how certain fonts have certain histories and applications, for
  instance Times is a newspaper font, verdana is a nasty screen font, arial is from
  the same family as helvetica but created for Microsoft, etc. (I hope I have my history
  correct there!) anyway, what I'm saying is can anyone tell me what murcurius was
  created for, or fonts like it? The reason I ask is lets say it's common knowledge
  to some people that it was created for branding an ice cream company, then it's
  hardly suitable for a health consultancy. \r\n\r\nSorry for the essay but can anyone
  help me out be adding to this discussion, I really want to give this client something
  good. It should be professional looking but still engaging and maybe even quite
  daring. They will be operating in the same town as a Wellcome Trust partner and
  so we don't want something that looks professional but dry like [[www.wellcome.ac.uk|Wellcome
  Trust's Helvetica]] logo.\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "You don't need to double post regarding the typeface. Maybe <a href=\"http://www.processtypefoundry.com/typefaces/klavika/index.html\">Klavika</a>
    could suit your needs? I'm personally a bit tired of all those mixed case and
    lower case one word logos out there, and with your clients you'd probably want
    to stear away from the Web 2.0 look.\r\nThe symbol sounds very interesting!"
  created: '2008-09-25 11:45:40'
- author:
    name: paulsschwarz
    picture: 113501
  body: "So you would suggest splitting it into two words? \r\n\r\nWell Sense\r\n\r\nI
    hear you on the web 2.0 look.\r\n\r\nHave you managed to take a look at Mercurius?
    I have no idea what the history of this font is so not sure whether to consider
    it but it takes the logo away from the web 2.0 thing a bit since it is most certainly
    not a screen font. What I am trying to achieve is a mark where the icon suits
    the font and the font suits the icon. I'm probably quite guilty in the past of
    coming up with an icon and then slapping some text beside it. I'm trying to get
    them both to talk to each other.\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-25 12:02:29'
- author:
    name: Kirs10
  body: 'I''m looking forward to seeing your designs. My only concern is that the
    organization was formed by two women and the symbol you have chosen is "wise medicine
    man". Is the design going to be used primarily in Africa? or will it be on material
    that will be sent elsewhere? Knowing how it will be used should help you make
    your typographic choices. '
  created: '2008-09-25 16:22:01'
- author:
    name: paulsschwarz
    picture: 113501
  body: As far as I know they will be providing consultancy locally in East Africa.
    Some of their documents might make it back to the UK but the majority of their
    stationery is intended for use locally. I will put some time into getting samples
    together over the weekend and I'll look forward to some critique then!
  created: '2008-09-25 22:29:46'
- author:
    name: paulsschwarz
    picture: 113501
  body: I had some time over the weekend to prepare some samples. All these samples
    stem from the same concept, so I'd like to know what people think of the concept
    but also if anyone else can throw me a bone for other concepts that spring to
    mind for them.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logo-1_4390.0.gif]
  created: '2008-09-28 16:52:36'
- author:
    name: paulsschwarz
    picture: 113501
  body: "And here's something slightly different whilst still on the theme of Africa
    symbols and red earth tones.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logo-2_5030.0.gif]\r\nLooking
    forward to some critique."
  created: '2008-09-28 17:12:01'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Hi Paul\r\nFor me, the square sans doesn't convey Africa so well as the cursive
    font. I think it also fights with the diamond shape, whilst the cursive characters
    contrast nicely with the lines in the diamond. \r\nThe reddy colours are more
    interesting so my favourite is the bottom left design. \r\nThe circular one below
    is also interesting, but looks more corporate (a bit sterile?) and less 'local'.\r\nHope
    that helps! :)"
  created: '2008-09-29 18:12:46'
- author:
    name: paulsschwarz
    picture: 113501
  body: "Thanks, that does help. The circle was a pun thought out by the client, it
    is an Egyptian symbol of a well, meaning the source (of anything, prosperity,
    knowledge, etc). I think the diamond is far more appropriate, meaning \"the eye
    of the medicine man\" or wisdom. \r\n\r\nBear in mind I will tidy up the diamond
    shape a bit, right now it's a rough trace of a pencil drawing but came out very
    Illustrator-ish. I'll adjust it by hand later.\r\n\r\nI was sold on the square
    sans font but your comment has almost totally convinced me. Do others like the
    curvy font? Does it say \"health consultancy run by two highly academic female
    doctors\"???\r\n\r\nThanks"
  created: '2008-09-29 18:44:42'
- author:
    name: Kirs10
  body: "I'm not wild for either font choice. The stroke weight of the letters and
    the stroke weight of the eye drawing are essentially the same. There's no real
    contrast. Also if you are going to run the two words together you need to differentiate
    them by color (like on the circle sample) or by one in all caps, or by using different
    weights, or different fonts. The two right side versions read as wellsense not
    well sense.\r\n\r\nThe logo is going to be used to help market the service of
    these two women to medical facilities yes? Sort of a B-to-B of doctors rather
    than trying to appeal to the average joe/jane. Then you might want to take a clean,
    crisp approach to the type rather than trying to capture a local African flavor.
    I'm sure there are several typefaces that would be a happy melding of the two
    but off the top of my head I can't make any suggestions.  "
  created: '2008-09-29 19:22:23'
- author:
    name: paulsschwarz
    picture: 113501
  body: "Thanks Kirsten. \r\n\r\nThis client is somewhat unusual! \r\n\r\n1. They
    are quite keen to be known as WellSense (all one word) but I agree with frode
    frank who earlier said to keep away from the web 2.0 look. That's when I split
    the words, but we may be stuck with either wellsense or WellSense.\r\n\r\n2. You
    are almost right in saying that they will be marketing their services to other
    health professionals (therefore stick with pale blue helvetica on white background)
    but only some of their business comes from other HEALTH professionals. The rest
    of their business comes from all sorts, HIV care units, health policy planning,
    motherhood guidance, mental health, gender rights, community partnerships, sanitation,
    etc. So yes, they are very much medical professionals, but they must exude that
    warm, African, approachable type feeling. Quite a juxtaposition. \r\n\r\n3. How
    can I achieve better contrast? I tried fading the eye right into the background
    and then having pale text. I thought it worked. If I use a light version of any
    font face I feel it looks weak and too fussy. I could thin out the strokes that
    make up the eye??\r\n\r\nYou are right, neither font is a perfect fit, there is
    something i like about the font on the left but I worry it could just as easily
    be a cosmetics label (very odd one but still!)"
  created: '2008-09-29 19:40:25'
- author:
    name: Kirs10
  body: "It may be worth a try to use Papyrus. It's been over used but it just may
    make sense in this application. It's a lighter font and has a hand crafted feel
    to it. \r\n\r\nSet the words in every font you have, you may discover a pairing
    you wouldn't normally consider. In my mind's eye I'm leaning towards a thin perhaps
    condensed font. A sans would probably be most associated with medicine but I think
    a serif could be interesting. Play a bit more. The heavier fonts that you've selected
    may work fine if you set them quite a bit smaller to provide the contrast. \r\n\r\nI'm
    hesitant to make font suggestions because I don't know what the cultural associations
    are with different typefaces in that area of the world. You may need to do some
    research."
  created: '2008-09-29 20:24:42'
- author:
    name: paulsschwarz
    picture: 113501
  body: "Kirsten you'll never believe this, the original concept proposed by a different
    design company was done in papyrus!\r\n\r\nWhilst on the cultural issue here's
    something quite interesting:\r\nIf you live in the comfort of the first world
    you'd probably tend to think of Africa as \"yay, animals and tribal people\" (so
    you'd tend to use fonts like the Jurassic Park font (I think that's what they
    used in the new Madagascar movie logo). But when you actually live here you'll
    discover people are always trying to live more like they do in the first world.
    That's the intention but many designers here are not capable of knowing how to
    treat that. When a brief says \"logo should be african\" the first thing everyone
    here does is download a map of Africa from internet and there's your logo! I can't
    tell you how boring it gets. What I am trying to do for this client is invoke
    the image of Africa through the colours, and I suppose also the eye symbol, but
    really we want it to be a mark that looks like it will stand up in the first world
    too. Think of organisations like oxfam who are international, but some branches
    are African. Now think, what sort of identity would they have for these branches?
    African enough to look African, but still pretty European. I think that's what
    I'm trying to achieve here.\r\n\r\nI will try going through all my fonts ;) If
    I get stuck on helvetica I'll kill you!"
  created: '2008-09-29 22:28:34'
- author:
    name: Kirs10
  body: "Ha ha ha, well hopefully you will find a more unique solution than helvetica.\r\n\r\nYour
    explanation is exactly why I was hesitant to make any font suggestions. What I
    may think of as African is probably pretty stereotypical and not truly indicative
    of the culture. I once designed an article about a sports program in East Africa.
    It was suggested that I just add some African art as a graphic element. However
    when I researched the art of that region it was not what one (from the west) would
    typically associate with African art. The design was questioned by the editors,
    but remained as designed. On the flip side, a designer friend once had to design
    a brochure using Chinese characters. However the characters chosen had nothing
    to do with the subject mater, they were personally selected by the client because
    they looked pretty. \r\n\r\nYou are on the right track by using a more meaningful
    symbol than just a generic map. Looking forward to see where you take this."
  created: '2008-09-30 15:23:02'
- author:
    name: paulsschwarz
    picture: 113501
  body: "Thanks, I'm going to see if I can come up with another concept and another
    iteration tonight.\r\n\r\nWhat was the sports program in East Africa? Was it Uganda?
    or Kenya?"
  created: '2008-09-30 18:51:07'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Interesting posts here ;)\r\nI think Papyrus would need to be used exceptionally
    carefully to avoid looking stereotypical. \r\nIn my day job I market our training
    services worldwide but with a focus on Africa and Asia, including in the health
    sector. I've also travelled a fair amount in East Africa.\r\nWithout going into
    too much detail, I'd be inclined to think the principles of relevant design stand
    whatever context; also people's aspirations the world over are ultimately the
    same, and their psychologies are more similar than I'd imagined. If you look at
    INGO websites such as ActionAid, Oxfam, WaterAid etc you will see that most of
    their country office websites are branded pretty much the same way to confer international
    standards on their work around the world. That does not detract from their local
    context, which appears in the details specific to each webpage.\r\nI'd agree with
    Kirsten that clarity and meaning are vital here. There is also the added criterion
    that your clients have asked for something 'unmistakeably African', which I think
    the Egyptian eye and the terracotta suggests. (Bear in mind that Egypt is not
    generally considered culturally part of Africa!)\r\nYou might try changing that
    terracotta into the blue you originally suggested, as blue is easier on the eye,
    more restful. It might also help you get around the contradictory criterion of
    'not looking stereotyped', and suggest the blue of Lake Victoria or of the sky!
    But I do very much like the red you have. It depends whether you think the eye
    icon is enough to suggest African or whether the colour and the font need to do
    that too.\r\nThe curvy font suggests warmth, professionalism, calmness and femininity,
    which is I guess good for the client. \r\nI think you could probably find a better-suited
    font. It's not bad what you have but there are some lovely humanist sans fonts
    out there. I might look at Fago, Le Monde Sans, Maiandra for example, just to
    see how the word form appears in different fonts.\r\nJust some suggestions...you
    might not have budget to buy fonts! "
  created: '2008-09-30 20:15:44'
- author:
    name: paulsschwarz
    picture: 113501
  body: "Thanks so much for that post Bendy. It's really awesome to hear from outsiders
    who know a lot about Africa. I actually live in Kenya, but roaming the streets
    of Mombasa is a sure way to get completely uninspired when it comes to professional...
    um, anything!\r\n\r\nKirsten, you were right about the target market, I asked
    the client to break it down and here's what I got.\r\nOur market as anticipated:\r\n-
    \     Locals/ laymen 0 %\r\n-      Community groups 2%\r\n-      locally based
    NGOs (not necessarily health professionals) \u2013 5 %\r\n-      local Kenyan
    institutions \u2013 15%\r\n-      internationally minded development & health
    related groups \u2013 donors, international NGO\u2019s, academic institutions
    \u2013 78%\r\n\r\nBendy, budget is an issue (when is it not) but I happen to own
    a copy of Maiandra, I don't have Fago or Le Monde Sans, I wish we could try before
    you buy. I did that with Klavika in one of my early posts (I just set the words
    wellsense on fontshop or something and then downloaded the gif). But the font
    costs $300!\r\n\r\nI am going to try out your suggestion of using blue. In actual
    fact I put together a basic sample for a brochure and I used pale blue on the
    inside pages to break up the teracota. Looks good. I'll attach it to this post
    as a PDF (please don't judge the actual typesetting and whatnot, it's just a sample
    I put together in 10 minutes to test colours)\r\n\r\nAlso here's the latest version
    of THIS concept based largely on ideas I got while reading Kirsten's latest post.
    Kirsten won't be killed because I found Univers to have the same professional
    clinical look as Helvetica but slightly different, namely the a looks quite different.
    I've also played with the ll in Well and I made the W and S of WellSense about
    95% of their true size so that it looks like a mark rather than plain boring text."
  created: '2008-09-30 21:30:14'
- author:
    name: paulsschwarz
    picture: 113501
  body: "Couldn't figure out how to attach a pdf. prob not possible. Here's the latest
    logo iteration:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logo-1_4713.2.gif]\r\n\r\nAnd
    here's the blue and reddy brown together on a brochure, not sure I've got the
    right blue. Also I know you meant actually bring the blue into the logo, that's
    what I'm trying now.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/brochure-1_4469.0.gif]"
  created: '2008-09-30 21:43:41'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: '[[http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/fontfont/ff-fago/fago-no-med-roman/|Fago]]
    and [[http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/typofonderie/le-monde-sans/demi/|Le Monde Sans]]
    appear on MyFonts if you want to see how they look. '
  created: '2008-09-30 21:44:18'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Aah, Kilifi! I remember lolloping around there for a couple of days on someone's
    yacht in the creek! Idyllic!\r\n\r\nMeta might work too as a font choice. Is that
    Univers Black? I don't think I've ever seen it before. It doesn't say very much
    to me, I'm afraid, and looks a bit too much like Arial.\r\n\r\nYou can attach
    a pdf to your original post at the top.\r\n\r\nI was imagining electric blue as
    a contrast colout. In small amounts!\r\n\r\nI'll try to stop interfering now,
    so you can get other people's feedback again! \r\n:)\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-30 21:53:06'
- author:
    name: paulsschwarz
    picture: 113501
  body: "I was imagining electric blue too! I have a disease where I start off with
    bright colours and then tone them down till they look boring. Let me go a bit
    wild with the blue and see what I come up with.\r\n\r\nKilifi Creek is great,
    we lived at the next creek down, Mtwapa if you've been there? it's the one with
    the floating restaurant. But now we've moved into Nyali closer to the shops and
    everything.\r\n\r\n... just looked at myfonts.com, wow le monde sans in nice! "
  created: '2008-09-30 22:06:59'
- author:
    name: paulsschwarz
    picture: 113501
  body: I have ITC Legacy Sans which is quite similar to Le Monde Sans except the
    e isn't horizontal, it rises at a slight angle
  created: '2008-09-30 22:11:22'
- author:
    name: paulsschwarz
    picture: 113501
  body: "Whilst we're on the topic...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logo-1_4257.3.gif]"
  created: '2008-09-30 22:25:11'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "We went Mombasa-Kilifi-Watamu-Malindi-Lamu I think. Wonderful memories, it
    was about 10 years ago. We were in Kilifi during the monsoon season and the winds
    didn't stop -- all the boats in the creek were rocking all over the place, mostly
    empty as everyone had to wait for the winds to change before setting sail again,
    and they'd all gone off on safari and stuff.\r\n\r\nLook forward to seeing how
    you resolve all this!"
  created: '2008-09-30 22:26:26'
- author:
    name: paulsschwarz
    picture: 113501
  body: "and here's Maiandra\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logo-1_3864.4.gif]"
  created: '2008-09-30 22:29:17'
- author:
    name: paulsschwarz
    picture: 113501
  body: "I got a bit bored so here are two more completely different ideas\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logo-3_3657.0.gif]\r\n\r\nI
    have a feeling I'll be revisiting the eye logo, these are just to clear my mind
    ;)\r\n\r\n@Bendy, I haven't yet been to Lamu but know the others really well.
    My uncle and aunt have been running a scuba diving joint in Watamu for 20 years.
    Where did you go/stay in Watamu? or were you on the yacht the whole time?"
  created: '2008-09-30 22:47:33'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Oh gosh! It was some kind of person's house we stayed in there. I don't know
    what kind of person! There were old books on a shelf. Was it a hotel? There might
    have been flowers and palm trees. Not very illuminating I'm afraid!\r\nWe did
    go out in a glass-bottomed boat and snorkelling in the grey wind, which was pretty
    horrible.\r\nWe had lunch in a place with a blue marlin on the wall, it would
    have been really nice on a sunny day!"
  created: '2008-09-30 23:19:08'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "\r\nI think the diamond/eye mark was working pretty strongly ... just needed
    a bit more exploration.\r\n\r\nand then rusticified ... drawn in sand ... with
    sand etc ... and some type created from earth.\r\n\r\nI'm not against \"wellsense\"
    as all lowercase ... has a ring of being a word that could enter vocab etc. It
    does of course have the whole web2.0 connotation, but that might be able to be
    avoided. I feel the mixed case version heads toward being too corporate ... with
    the examples shown at least.\r\n\r\nsounds like a great project.\r\n\r\nkeep us
    posted.\r\n\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul
    Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic Design Melbourne</a>\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-01 00:20:15'
- author:
    name: paulsschwarz
    picture: 113501
  body: "Ratbaggy, thanks for the comments. I liked your suggestion of going back
    to all lower case. I got a few people to read your rationale there and they all
    went \"ahh yeah\". I also liked the idea of making it look \"drawn in sand\",
    I tried a couple of photoshop effects and couldn't get even close to how I imagined
    it. One hesitation is I want the logo to be as versatile as possible (website,
    letter head, signboards, etc) so complex effect won't work, unless they're somehow
    successfully work with the limitations. \r\n\r\nAnyway here's the latest:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logo-1_5050.5.gif]\r\n\r\nI
    just want to point out a few things so you can see the process:\r\n- I have made
    it all lower case now\r\n- I have used ITC Legacy sans ultra which i found to
    have some of the same appeal as le monde sans \r\n- I stretched the font to 125%
    of its natural height\r\n- but then cropped the ll so they weren't too high\r\n-
    I then shaved them off at an angle and introduced a curve on the top left corner
    to mirror the s and e of the original font.\r\n- the logo in the background has
    been redrawn slightly, I guess I like the homemade look rather than a precise
    geometric shape\r\n- I think the \"serifs\" of the s shape match the angular logo
    in the background\r\n- the text at the bottom is set in Vectora (I guess any professional
    looking face would be appropriate down there, but just need to find something
    that matches well)\r\n\r\nBendy, I'm afraid the books on a bookshelf and palm
    tree didn't narrow things down an awful lot, BUT good news on the restaurant front...
    the marlin on the wall, there are two restaurants in Watamu like that. They're
    neighbours actually, both facing the beach. One is at the Hemingways Hotel (posh
    place) and the other is at Ocean Sports Hotel (where you go barefoot into the
    bar and restaurant) - that's the one we hang out at more. How well do you remember
    you trip? How old were you?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-01 10:31:39'
- author:
    name: paulsschwarz
    picture: 113501
  body: "I think it's time I got a sample to the client. This is what I'm going to
    show them:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/collection-1_5536.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-01 12:20:34'
- author:
    name: Kirs10
  body: "I think I prefer the version of Legacy Sans without all the stretching and
    tweaking. The unaltered font has subtle weight shifts in the strokes that have
    a humanistic feel. Those are virtually lost in the stretched version.\r\n\r\nCurious
    to see blue added into the mix on the logo. Although I do quite like the earth
    tones you've been using.\r\n\r\nThe article I worked on was about tennis programs
    in Tanzania and Kenya. I created some Tingatinga inspired graphics as a design
    element. I quite liked the simple graphic drawings and the bright colors.\r\n\r\nYour
    client should be very pleased with your progress."
  created: '2008-10-01 15:29:05'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Hi Paul, I would've been 22 at that time, it was definitely not the posh
    place we sat in, we were all unkempt and seawatery.\r\nI love the business cards,
    the headed paper is pretty nice too.\r\nI'm slightly hesitant with [[http://typophile.com/node/33713?|squooshing]]
    text; was that a design choice? But I do like the double l. Could they be sheared
    together rather than separately, so their tops form a continuous gradient? Legacy
    Sans looks good, I don't have an opinion on Vectora.\r\n\r\nI'd steer well away
    from photoshop effects and I don't think earth and sand want to be associated
    with medical expertise :) and as you say, logos need to be easy to transfer into
    different mediums.\r\n\r\nThis is coming along nicely.\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-01 19:39:04'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "Best way to get a \"made of sand effect\" ... make it from sand.\r\n\r\n;)\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic Design Melbourne</a>\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-03 03:49:02'
- author:
    name: paulsschwarz
    picture: 113501
  body: "Hi all, I had a meeting with the clients today. One comment is that the red
    brown background colour looks too dark, like dark chocolate. They said that the
    colours are exactly what they asked for but now wondering if they can see something
    a bit more orange. I'm finding it really hard because I'm working on a laptop
    so during the day with lots of ambient light the red brown becomes grey brown
    and then at night the colours come alive. So it's really hard to show the client.
    I did tell them that when we print I'll take them to the printer to play with
    the Pantone chart, but not sure of the proper way forward.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logo-1_4456.6.gif]\r\n\r\nThanks
    for all the comments, I found squooshingTM was pretty funny, I read the official
    definition. I am very aware of concepts like faux formatting and am careful not
    to be silly with stretching fonts, etc, however in this particular case I feel
    that my squooshed version only becomes obvious if you compare it to the original,
    but also ITC Legacy sans is quite a squat font when you look at its lowercase
    characters and I feel that stretching vertically injected a bit of logo life into
    it (ok a bit of a compromise, but I think it works well enough?).\r\n\r\nBendy,
    do you like the continuous shear along the tops of the Ls? Thanks for the idea.
    Sounds very much like you were at Ocean Sports Hotel. I'm actually Zimbabwean
    but we've been coming to Kenya on holidays for years and my uncle and aunt own
    a scuba school based at Ocean Sports so have been going there for many years.
    How funny!\r\n\r\nKirsten, the reason I asked about the sports job you did is
    recently we met folk in Uganda who have a soccer program for under priviledged
    kids (including ex-child soldiers) and they've done very well. They tour the world
    and win every junior soccer tournament they enter. Prince Charles has even visited
    them. They have lovely brochures and website obviously produced outside Africa. "
  created: '2008-10-03 19:19:13'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "In the third image from your most recent post, there's not enough contrast
    between \"wellsense\" and the background image, so they start to blur together.\r\n\r\nI
    prefer the cream/terracotta/chocolate combination because there's greater hue
    variation between the three elements. If you're going to go with the orange/tan
    background, try making the text slightly pink to incorporate another hue.\r\n\r\nWhat
    about incorporating a cooler accent colour into the scheme? I don't mean into
    the logo itself, but maybe for secondary headings in the body text, or something
    along those lines.\r\n\r\n - Lex\r\n\r\nP.S. You could always reverse the first
    image (i.e. chocolate letters on a cream background)."
  created: '2008-10-03 21:08:48'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Quick reply before packing my rucksack for India!\r\n\r\nThe ls work ok,
    but now the second one stands out being too tall i think. Perhaps bring the second
    one down somewhere in between the height it was and the height it is? Or shorten
    both down a bit? Or starting the second l at the same height as the right tip
    of the first one? Play around with moving those nodes, see what looks most comfortable.\r\n\r\nI
    also prefer the colour in the first version. It looks more purposeful. As Lex
    says, you can always try reversing the colourways. Or increase the saturation
    to make it redder.\r\n\r\nI think the third version reminds me of fudge and the
    second is too yellowy.\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-03 23:16:21'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "Cool project. Logo looks good and seems well suited to the purpose. perhaps
    not a whole lot of ideas were tried, though I love the sand part. Would be awesome
    if you could customize the typeface witha breezed on sand look. it would just
    give the logo a more mysterious and personal touch.\r\n\r\nMaybe just a wind blown
    look? and feather off the lighter parts with grain effects to mirror sand? Perhaps
    print out the design in black and smeer it before the ink drys for different results?"
  created: '2008-10-04 08:04:33'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Hey Paul how is this project going? Did you finish? I'd be interested to see
    what you decided in the end.
  created: '2008-10-31 18:25:41'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "definitely also curious to see where it's at \r\n\r\n*bump*\r\n<br />\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic
    Design Melbourne</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.bicyclefilmfestival.com.au\">Bicycle
    Film Festival</a>\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-03 03:18:49'
- author:
    name: paulsschwarz
    picture: 113501
  body: "Hi Bendy and Paul,\r\n\r\nThis all worked out nicely and the client is now
    using the marketing material that we produced. I fully intended to get a sample
    of each and take a photo to upload here to show you how it turned out, but when
    I said the printers here in Mombasa take a long time I meant it!! It's been such
    a headache getting everything printed, especially the brochures because I used
    3 spot colours but did some interesting gradients and colour overlays on photographs
    which needed to be treated more like process colour. I didn't see the problem
    but the printers gave me grief.\r\n\r\nAnyway I'll get a photo soon and upload
    it so you can see the final product. It's definitely been the most fun logo I've
    worked on, thanks for your input!\r\n\r\nPaul"
  created: '2009-02-09 10:16:12'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "sweet!\r\n\r\ncheers Paul.\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul
    Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic Designer</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.showusyourshorts.com.au\">Short Film Festival</a>"
  created: '2009-02-10 22:28:24'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Look forward to seeing the photo! :)
  created: '2009-02-18 12:04:41'
date: '2008-09-25 11:06:18'
title: Building a concept for "wellsense" public health consultants

---
