---
author:
  name: kris
body: "Kia ora folks,\r\n\r\nThe rebranding of <a href=\"http://www.bnz.co.nz\">BNZ</a>
  by <a href=\"http://www.dna.co.nz\">DNA Design</a> has just gone live. They're using
  <a href=\"http://www.klim.co.nz/custom_serrano.php\">Serrano</a>, a custom typeface
  that I whipped up for them. Kiwis will see the new rebrand roll out through the
  country over the next few months. Your thoughts are welcome, as always.  \r\n\r\n--K"
comments:
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Serrano looks like a clean business face that should meet the demands of
    your client. The italic, although a bit of a departure from the roman, has a much
    more friendly feel to it. This difference can be used to advantage when a dry
    business is trying to make an appeal to a human customer. \r\nWhen you say \"whipped
    out\" it sounds like you mean you knocked this out in a few weeks time :-)  How
    long did it really take?\r\n\r\nGood crip work as usual, Kris.--best of luck with
    your rollout!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-10-01 23:51:10'
- author:
    name: victor ivanov
    picture: 111726
  body: "Serrano is a stunner!\r\nThe characters have a friendly feel, some letter
    forms Resemble feijoa which may be unintentional, but is definitely a good thing!
    I wonder what they would look like when paired. Will this ever be available for
    retail? And do tell us how long this took you.\r\nGreat job as always!\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-02 00:43:04'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Thanks for your kind words! I was briefed to design a typeface that was 'friendly,
    approachable, easy and helpful', so that's why it looks like it does. It will
    be available for retail in October 2013, they have a 5-year exclusive. I've just
    checked the first .vfb\u2014it was created 24 July 2008, the final .vfb was sent
    for mastering on 30 August 2008. I don't know how many weeks that is, but you
    get the idea. \r\n\r\n--K"
  created: '2008-10-02 01:20:02'
- author:
    name: agostini
    picture: 111280
  body: "WOW love it...saw the tv ad yesterday \r\nand was wondering what it was...\r\nLooks
    awesome bro! But I'm a big\r\nfan of your work anyway!!\r\n\r\nJ\xF6rg"
  created: '2008-10-02 01:49:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Snappy work in that timeframe! Well done!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-10-02 02:22:35'
- author:
    name: Graham McArthur
    picture: 109915
  body: 'Great work Kris, well done. '
  created: '2008-10-02 04:15:04'
- author:
    name: victor ivanov
    picture: 111726
  body: "had a look at it again, not sure why it reminded me of feijoa.\r\nthey look
    completely different.\r\ni guess i don't function that well in the morning..."
  created: '2008-10-02 07:20:38'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "My personal wish would be an interpretation of an informal sans made by Kris
    earlier than 2013 \u2026 :)\r\nBTW Great friendly face! Especially the beautiful
    contrast between the \"normals\" and the italics. And \u2026 rendered really good
    in the online ads.\r\n\r\nGr\xFC\xDFe"
  created: '2008-10-02 08:17:37'
- author:
    name: Dav
    picture: 128119
  body: "I really like it. <em>(It reminds me of Albert Pinggera's 'Strada'. Especially
    the bold weight/s.)</em> Love the italic.\r\n\r\nDav"
  created: '2008-10-02 13:09:04'
- author:
    name: Fredrik
    picture: 110755
  body: "I think it meets the brief perfectly. Very nice!\r\nI would be interested
    in hearing about the relation to the bank's wordmark - its letterforms seem related
    to Serrano in 'feel' -; which informed the other? Was there a dialogue with the
    branding agency during development, and what motivated their decision to commission
    a new typeface? \r\n\r\nKris, is 'z' your favourite letter? The italic 'z' is
    almost too cute ;)\r\n\r\n/Fredrik"
  created: '2008-10-02 14:50:46'
- author:
    name: omb
    picture: 115622
  body: "Gorgeous design, it's definitely \"business casual\". \r\nI am also interested
    in hearing about where the wordmark, and the general branding overhaul fit into
    all this. \r\n\r\nFantastic work on the typeface.\r\n\r\nPoking around the site
    [[http://bnz.co.nz/binaries/BNZ_GDS_FINAL_Jun08.pdf|this PDF]] shows just how
    major of a transformation has gone on since their last branding effort.\r\n\r\nI
    am very curious to see where the brand is heading visually with similar design
    challenges, as they have lost a great deal of the sternness and heritage evoked
    by the previous mark."
  created: '2008-10-02 19:32:30'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Thanks guys! I was waiting for the Strada comparison\u2026 I had a mini panic
    attack at one stage when I realised that Serrano was looking close to Strada,
    so I asked Erik Spiekermann for advice & he said it wasn't close enough to worry.
    The rounded terminals are actually suggestion from the AD after an early proof.
    At that stage there were no rounded bits\u2014just normal square terminals. He
    suggested rounding on the uprights: \r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Serrano-feedback-02_4134.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\nand
    curving the 't' tail to a point:\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Serrano-feedback-01_4462.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\nI
    responded with a new draft with the suggested upright treatments and additional
    rounded-to-a-point terminals on a,c,e,f,g,j,l,r,s,t\u2014as it would look weird
    just having it on the 't'. The AD/client liked it & that was that! \r\n\r\nAs
    for the logotypes, they were drawn in-house & sent to me to polish. I'm not sure
    at what point they were started or what the references were, but they are a bit
    different from Serrano. I'm not entirely sure what motivated them to commission
    a custom face, perhaps they weren't entirely happy with anything currently available
    for retail? \r\n\r\n--K\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-02 19:40:24'
- author:
    name: NigellaL
    picture: 111493
  body: Well done Kris all I can say is Wow! I'm sure everyone here will agree with
    me that you truly are the best new type designer since Nick Shinn! Is that nice
    logo based on the font too? The z looks different and I like the one in the font
    much better.
  created: '2008-10-02 21:23:42'
- author:
    name: Matthew Nicoll
  body: The fonts nice, no question. It definitely fits the brief you were given.
    Not sure about what they did with the logo though. DNA should have incorporated
    the old logo into it. I think I might change banks now to be honest..
  created: '2008-10-03 11:10:38'
- author:
    name: haag
    picture: 110176
  body: "I can't help to say that it does reminds me of my Foco...\r\nhttp://www.daltonmaag.com/browse/fonts/dama/foco/standard/focobold#\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-03 11:30:25'
- author:
    name: norman murison
  body: "Greetings All,\r\nI came across this website while trawling the net for some
    help with a graphics problem. I am an engineer who knows as much about graphic
    design as my arse knows about snipe shooting. However I must create a stylised
    logo for an earthmoving bucket product range. The company name is Venco (how inspiring
    is that?) I had hoped to do something around the letter V. That\u2019s where the
    inspiration dried up! Can any of you brainy guys kick me in the right direction.
    PS I am based in Africa and graphics agencies are not quite ten a penny. Thanks
    in advance.\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-03 11:30:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Norman,\r\nIt would be best to start your own thread on this matter.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-10-03 14:50:20'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Nice, though less innovative than your other stuff. Also the rounded-with-a-point
    terminals aren''t working for me. '
  created: '2008-10-03 20:49:59'
- author:
    name: RahimSnow
    picture: 114570
  body: "It looks amazing, Kris.  Just saw it in action on their website.  It makes
    me feel like they are a friendlier bank.  You really have a talent for getting
    a feel for your clients are looking for.  And given that you've created typefaces
    that lean slightly more toward the warm & friendly side (Feijoa, National, Hardys),
    it is remarkable that you can create Serrano and still not make it look like these
    others.\r\n\r\nCongratulations! and much success to you!\r\n\r\nRahim\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-03 21:09:40'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Thanks for all your kinds words thus far, especially you Nigella! It has
    been quite a while since you've posted on these forums.\r\n\r\nFabio: I can honestly
    say that up until now I was quite unaware of your Foco. Is there a page where
    I can read about it? \r\n\r\nBill: Less innovative? I'm not sure that I needed
    to be so 'radical' designing a typeface for a bank. I didn't expect the terminals
    would work for you ;-) Perhaps you could suggest an alternative? \r\n\r\n--K"
  created: '2008-10-04 07:18:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm ambivalent about the italic* but overall, another winner!\r\nGreat job
    and congrats. Nice to see a bank do something right...  :-)\r\n\r\n* Maybe there's
    room for another, sister design?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-04 15:33:10'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: I like the design and also -- as important, or more so -- the quality of the
    implementation. As near as I can judge. Very pleasant - - that's a tough quality
    to put across.
  created: '2008-10-04 16:29:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Kris, I think you fulfilled the brief admirably. And you''re right, the point
    was not originality. Still, to me the terminals seem to me a little tacked on,
    not as organic as with your other faces. Also I find the tops of the BDR a bit
    awkward. As to alternatives, I think the way Myriad takes Frutiger and tapers
    the terminals is very systematically worked out, and is quite effective, even
    though I think Frutiger is a more beautiful face. A more soft, swashy treatment
    of terminals that works is in Goudy sans, but it''s too busy and informal for
    a bank. '
  created: '2008-10-04 18:04:41'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: One of the last ones to see this. Very clean and well done.
  created: '2008-10-04 18:11:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I quite like the terminals. I don't think it is a requirement to follow existing
    methods used in long-accepted faces--particularly when the point of a custom face
    is to create brand separation. This is a contemporary sans that takes on the task
    of setting a brand-specific tone. I think the terminals go to that aim quite well
    along with the rest of the structure.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-10-04 18:20:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Chris, I don''t think there is any "requirement to follow existing methods
    used in long-accepted faces" either. I just am not that taken with the way the
    terminals work here--but it looks like I''m the only one!  '
  created: '2008-10-04 18:39:30'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "It looks excellent. I like the contrast between the straight and the rounded
    (corporate yet friendly).\r\n\r\nAt first glance it also reminded me of Strada,
    or maybe a pinch of Evert Bloemsma in there as well. But as you (and Erik) already
    said, it's not too close at all.\r\n\r\nAnd very fast too, 5 weeks and 3 days,
    or something like that..."
  created: '2008-10-04 19:24:31'
- author:
    name: Therese Brockie
    picture: 115843
  body: "It looks a lot like foco.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-04 21:30:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Link?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-04 22:48:25'
- author:
    name: clifton
    picture: 111991
  body: It's fantastic.
  created: '2008-10-05 06:55:25'
- author:
    name: justinthomaskay
    picture: 109939
  body: as always i am a huge fan kris. fantastic!
  created: '2008-10-06 04:46:50'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "<cite> ... or maybe a pinch of Evert Bloemsma in there as well ... </cite>\r\n\r\nExactly
    what I thought when I saw Serrano. Nice one, Kris!"
  created: '2008-10-06 08:25:58'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Really great combining of styles. The petal-like terminals are really nice.
    A fun semi-rounded take on a sans at display sizes and a straight-forward sans
    at text sizes.
  created: '2008-10-07 00:01:09'
- author:
    name: Sarah Mint
  body: Wow Kris, I'm impressed. Serrano is so friendly I want to take it home for
    a cuppa. Shame I won't be able to do that until 2013.
  created: '2008-10-07 04:30:07'
- author:
    name: boardman
    picture: 110337
  body: Congratulations, Kris. It's lovely. I especially love the bold italic.
  created: '2008-10-07 05:34:32'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "Kris,\r\nI've been suppressing this comment for a few days because I don't
    want it to come off as a slight in any way and it will use a VERY BAD word in
    reference to your work. You once asked me what it was that I thought characterized
    your style and after seeing Serrano, it finally gelled in my mind. To me, your
    work is a combination of Classic (so far so good) and Cute. There, I said it.
    Of course this design is meant to be friendly, but I think that's part of your
    aesthetic in general. I think all of your work (that I've seen) follows this Classic+Cute
    formula, with the exception of NZ Rugby Chisel. I mean all of this in the best
    possible way. I for one am a fan of your work and as you can see by this post,
    I'm not alone, so the formula's working. Mostly I just wanted to come back to
    the conversation we had months ago and fill in the blank. Keep up the good work!
    Oh and hello from Catherine Griffiths, she dropped by the DaMa offices the other
    day and we got to meet her and she raved about you. :D"
  created: '2008-10-07 09:17:44'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Paul, this is reminiscent of David Berlow's comment in Robert Norton's TBR/TBF
    in the middle of an ITC selection committee meeting that he doesn't like Stone
    Sans italic and similar. (Something to do with masculine/feminine terminations
    which I never figured out.) \r\n\r\nI like your formulation of Classic+Cute --
    which is acute (which is the original meaning of cute). The problem with a corporate
    typeface is that it must be noticed and must be liked, but must never waver in
    its credibility. This is very tough to do. A great corporate typeface must also
    have Zeitgeist awareness. The feeling that this design belongs here, now, I like
    it now and I will like it for ten years, if not forever. Very few type designers
    have the ability to connect with and exploit the visual language of their moment
    - - it is such a very subtle thing. It's very easy to lose, and for the few who
    succeed, the achievement seldom carries over beyond a generation.\r\n\r\nCute
    is an interesting word in that it has simultaneous good and bad connotations,
    unlike for example 'naff' which can mean one of two opposite things (not invariably
    discoverable by context) but not both together. One could think of cute as having
    a possible axis with ego as one extreme and humour as another. \r\n\r\nIn a recent
    thread criticizing the Vista C-fonts, I used cute primarily negatively. There,
    the design goal was to prepare several typefaces suitable for everyday, every-hour
    use, to be used by hundreds of millions of users. All-day, all-weather use. Crystal
    goblet design. In this I think they failed, except for the user base which happily
    cohabits with the most famous C-font of all, Comic Sans. However, any of the C-fonts
    would be considered superb candidates for a corporate identity or advertising
    project. \r\n\r\nBy contrast we're using cute here in its happiest senses. This
    is a happy typeface. That is one of the very hardest things to do. I don't care
    how it happens, as long as it happens. \r\n\r\nSpeaking of the how, two people
    have noted a resemblance between Serrano and Foco (including its primary designer,
    Fabio Maag). Based on the web samples available, I just don't see it at all, and
    I am something of an expert on what constitutes type cloning. If someone is going
    to make this case, I think they should make it in good, high, resolution. Don't
    say something looks like something unless you're willing to prove it. (I could
    just as well say that Foco looks like a sans version of the Vafflard font I have
    been working on for the past 15 years. It does! Shame! The f and t without the
    left bar are mine! Forever!) However, in this particular case, having spent some
    careful time with the web samples, and even allowing for the low res, I must say
    they look like completely different designs to me. The suggestion of influence
    should not have been made."
  created: '2008-10-07 12:39:43'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I guess I agree with Paul about the 'cute' part about this design, but not
    about Kris's designs in general, where I would say 'beautiful'. \r\n\r\nIn looking
    again at it, I'm thinking that what bothers me is not so much the terminals themselves,
    as their combination with the slight reversed contrast, the Bloemsma influence.
    A more assertive design that Kris did--I think it was called Karbon--made the
    Bloemsma influence work well. But here the softness of the terminals for me don't
    go well with the heavy looking strokes. For example, in the 'a', the top stroke
    is quite heavy--like Gill sans. But then comes the soft, tapered stroke which
    to me contradicts it. By contrast, if you look at the soft terminal at the bottom
    of the 'g', which has a thinner stroke, the effect is lovely. \r\n\r\nAlso, I
    wonder whether it would look better with a rounded inner corner rather than outer
    corner in the stems of the m n r. And why have horizontal cuts terminating the
    'w' when all the other verticals end in soft terminals? I just keep getting the
    feeling that a more formal design had a bow stuck on it. Very well drawn, but
    disconcerting to me. \r\n\r\nI am here looking at the bold, as this stuff is not
    noticeable in the lighter weight in the link to Kris's site. \r\n\r\n   "
  created: '2008-10-07 14:37:20'
- author:
    name: haag
    picture: 110176
  body: "Billtrop, I didn't mean to say that Serrano could be a clone of Foco in any
    way. Sorry if it perhaps sounded like that. It just reminded me, mainly because
    of the terminals and how they are executed on c s e... here's a quick comparison
    of both. I'm also currently designing italics for it, so I'm really into it.\r\n\r\n>(I
    could just as well say that Foco looks like a sans version\r\n>of the Vafflard
    font I have been working on for the past 15\r\n>years. It does! Shame! The f and
    t without the left bar are\r\n>mine! Forever!)\r\n\r\nGee, can I see that? (I
    couldn't find on the web).\r\n\r\nI started Foco from sketch in a workshop Bruno
    Maag did about 8 years ago. A few years after the workshop I finished my version
    of it and DaMa got interest. So they fine tune it to their high standard and it
    was released in 2006.\r\n\r\nKris, nice work! ; )[img:sites/default/files/old-images/SerranoAndFoco_6097.jpg]"
  created: '2008-10-07 15:12:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I just saw the link to Foco (sorry). And thanks for the nice comparison,
    Fabio. I have to think that the similarity ends with those characteristic terminals.
    In essence the two are nothing alike.\r\n\r\nConcerning Dan's candid and incisive
    insight: I do see it, but Kris is just starting. If he gets stuck on one style,
    that's a problem. But I see him moving on, with confidence, as needed. That said,
    some people never move on from a style they're comfortable with and still contribute
    a great deal to the craft. As an example, some people (including Bill, IIRC) see
    persistent cuteness in the work of Unger, but we know how <em>that</em> turned
    out!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-07 15:25:30'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Fabio, thanks for the illustration. I now see some more of the similarities,
    and also more of the differences. I can better see why William is bothered by
    the terminals, but honestly, whereas I wouldn't want to use the font myself, I
    would love for my bank to use it -- and that's the whole purpose here. Fabio's
    design has a completely different flavour and feeling. Fabio, I wasn't serious
    about that Vafflard remark. Vafflard was the first (about 1783) to take the left
    bars off f and t, and I was the first to start reviving Vafflard's designs quite
    some years ago without however ever having released any of the work. (Interestingly,
    one of my quarrels with Adobe, when they took this work on, was that they decided
    halfway through that they wanted left bars put on. Matthew Carter and Sumner Stone,
    whom I consulted about this lunacy, professed themselves quite unable to understand
    it. That it was an issue at all illustrates my commitment to the barless f and
    t in this design. I gave in to them in the end -- what choice did I have? -- but
    that wasn't enough to save the project, which remains unreleased though occasionally
    used. A typophile thread where the font is illustrated is http://typophile.com/node/47453.
    You can see why Robert didn't want it released before Garamond Premier and some
    of his other later fonts, which incorporate many curiously similar ideas.)\r\n\r\nHrant,
    will you remind me what I said about Unger and cuteness and how it turned out?
    I don't remember any of this. "
  created: '2008-10-08 00:29:21'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "To get back on topic, I think Fabio's terminal treatment is more likely to
    work best at smaller sizes and I love anyone willing to take on the challenges
    of the left-bar-less f and t. (I am remembering Slimbach and Twombley's incomparable
    performance in this respect. 'Week 1. We think you should have a little blob,
    the teeniest thing, just two or three units, to the left of f and t. Week 2. Do
    you think you could shape the blobs a bit more? Just a couple of extra points?
    Week 3. We don't think two or three units is enough. Could you try five or six?
    Week 4. The blob shape isn't working for us, do you think you could make it more
    like a bar? Week 5. We know we asked you only for a tiny bar, just ten units,
    but do you think you could extend it just a tad to thirteen or fourteen? Week
    6. Let's have the bar come out fully. We think that will give the characters better
    balance. Don't worry, Bill, it's just a blob. Nobody will notice it.' Oh, did
    I say I say I was going to stay on-topic?)\r\n\r\nI enjoyed also Kris's article
    about Balance. I am more convinced by Bloemsma's curve theories than by his stress
    theories and I am glad Kris didn't overdo the stress.\r\n\r\nI realize that Kris's
    approach to the terminals isn't entirely consistent, but it really works for me
    in sizes large enough to be visible. I think I know why: What is so <em>acute</em>
    about this treatment is that it states, through the simplest graphic elements,
    a strong message: innovation and modernity (C), plus tradition and stability (u).
    This is an utterly brilliant use of graphical elements to send a signal that will
    be recognized by everyone who has ever seen a conventional typeface in use. I
    really admire the intelligence and instinct at work here. William, surely, in
    these terms, you can see why he has done exactly what he did. I cannot think of
    another typeface where this has been done so successfully. It succeeds on so many
    different levels: visual, psychological, aesthetic. An exceptionally sophisticated
    command of contemporary marketing and advertising language is seen here at its
    clearest, its most elemental. I don't think I'm overstating the case when I say
    that we all can learn a lot from this typeface."
  created: '2008-10-08 10:03:55'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I am more convinced by Bloemsma\u2019s curve theories than by his stress
    theories\r\n\r\nI am not convinced by either. By 'curve theories' I take it you
    mean his quote from a teacher, \"a straight line is a dead line.\" I think this
    is sometimes true, enough to make it a good quote. But it is also sometimes false.
    Straight verticals, for example, convey strength in some designs. The straights
    are also often combined with curves, and the tension is very lively, and not dead.
    \r\n\r\nAs opposed to the 'sometimes true' view about straight lines, I just don't
    like the reversed contrast thing with roman. The \"heavy vertical, lighter horizontal\"
    rule is so deep in the DNA of the Imperial caps and Carolingian minuscule that
    I just don't think the reversal works. Hebrew is the other way around, and there
    the heavy horzontal, light vertical rule works fine--but the shapes are fundamentally
    different. Also the Roman Rustica caps are reversed contrast, but again have a
    different skeleton. When you take classic upper and lower case 'bones' and try
    to put reversed-contrast clothing on them, it always looks ill-fitting to my eyes.
    \ "
  created: '2008-10-08 17:02:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Bill, concerning the Unger comments:\r\n1) It might not have been you.\r\n2)
    It might have been a private comment (in which case I apologize).\r\n3) Hwoever/wherever
    it was, the opinion was that Unger's work is often cutesy.\r\n4) In terms of \"how
    it turned out\", I just mean that Unger has been a superb contributor (as I think
    you agree) irrespective of any persistent theme (cuteness or otherwise) throughout
    his work.\r\n\r\n> I am more convinced by Bloemsma\u2019s curve theories than
    by his stress theories\r\n\r\nWell, his stress theories evolved rapidly and markedly
    even starting from Avance, and certainly by Legato. In the end (which came so
    soon) Bloemsma didn't see reverse contrast as anything central (if he ever did).
    He was slowly coming around to the practical benefits of (so-called) stroke contrast,
    serifs, etc., although absolutely not in terms of chirography, quite the contrary.\r\n\r\n>
    Straight verticals, for example, convey strength in some designs.\r\n\r\nI agree.
    And honesty too.\r\n\r\n> The \u201Cheavy vertical, lighter horizontal\u201D rule
    is so deep\r\n> in the DNA of the Imperial caps and Carolingian minuscule\r\n\r\nThis
    makes no sense to me. There is nothing comparable to DNA here. And really, even
    DNA mutates!  :-)\r\n\r\n> the shapes are fundamentally different\r\n> .... a
    different skeleton\r\n\r\nThis skeleton business has to go. Leave them in the
    closet, then burn the closet. We don't read skeletons; it's just an intellectually
    lethargic way to make fonts. And any differences are not \"fundamental\", but
    malleable; which is not to say we should change things in cavalier or chauvinistic
    fashion. But if something <em>needs</em> change, we should try.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-08 18:16:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I did a project for a corporate client a few years ago which bears some similarity.
    This kind of work is more styling than design. Nothing wrong with that, it's the
    kind of font development the situation calls for. Smoothing some of the corners
    is a quite literal (though somewhat simplistic) interpretation of the brief for
    something \"friendly\", that can be pointed to, easily understood, and signed
    off on by various levels of client. Art directors contribute by deciding where,
    and in which direction, the go-faster streamlining goes. \r\n\r\nThere is rarely
    enough time to do a thorough job from scratch, so it's expedient to whip up a
    font solution by taking something basic off the shelf and applying a little tinkering.
    Indiscriminately rounding some of the corners is one technique that does the job,
    as is chopping some of the perpendicular terminals off at angles. Voil\xE0--a
    new custom typeface! \r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nThe positioning is no longer valid, following
    the economic crisis.\r\nWhat people want is a bank that's secure, not friendly.
    \r\nSurviving corporations will need to rebrand."
  created: '2008-10-08 18:19:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Indiscriminately\r\n\r\nWell, you can do it discriminately too.\r\n\r\n>
    The positioning is no longer valid\r\n\r\nAgreed.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-08 18:20:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">The positioning is no longer valid\r\n\r\nWow, very interesting. I will
    now be looking out to see whether the relatively new cartoonish logos and informal,
    somewhat cutesy faces (eg ATT), which seem to be everywhere, start to be replaced.
    \r\n\r\nShould we be also expecting a lot of Corinthian Columns? :) "
  created: '2008-10-08 18:30:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Well, you can do it discriminately too.</em>\r\n\r\nTrue. What I was
    trying to get at was the apparent lack of rationale for where the round corners
    go. Sure, one can discriminatingly place them here and there so that the overall
    effect in text is comfortable, but is that all there is?\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-08 18:39:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Should we be also expecting a lot of Corinthian Columns? :)\"\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    a few up-scale Spa/massage facades though for AIG :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-10-08 18:40:34'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Wow, thanks for all the interesting feedback! I'm not too sure how to respond
    to the classic/cute description, people will see what they will. I always thought
    it was more 'humanist', in the looser sense of the word.  \r\n\r\n<em>In looking
    again at it, I\u2019m thinking that what bothers me is not so much the terminals
    themselves, as their combination with the slight reversed contrast, the Bloemsma
    influence.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm not seeing the reversed contrast, there isn't any in
    there. Serrano has a fairly standard contrast. Where are you seeing it?\r\n\r\n<em>Smoothing
    some of the corners is a quite literal (though somewhat simplistic) interpretation
    of the brief for something \u201Cfriendly\u201D, that can be pointed to, easily
    understood, and signed off on by various levels of client. </em>\r\n\r\nYou could
    say it was literal & simplistic, or you could say it was quite appropriate to
    the brief. There were three other typefaces that they were using for a reference
    & a starting point. All of them had rounded corners and only one was well-made
    enough to actually use. I was unwilling to do the 'rounded corner' thing, as it
    would date too quickly (web 2.0 etc). \r\n\r\n<em>There is rarely enough time
    to do a thorough job from scratch, so it\u2019s expedient to whip up a font solution
    by taking something basic off the shelf and applying a little tinkering.</em>\r\n\r\nAre
    you insinuating that this isn't a thorough, from-scratch job? \r\n\r\n<em>True.
    What I was trying to get at was the apparent lack of rationale for where the round
    corners go. Sure, one can discriminatingly place them here and there so that the
    overall effect in text is comfortable, but is that all there is?</em>\r\n\r\nLet
    me be very clear. The rounded bits are not just slapped on here & there to make
    it 'friendly'. The 'humanist' structure (like Thesis Sans) the open, generous
    counters (like Frutiger) and the overall narrow set are purposefully designed
    to convey the desired qualities. I have rounded ascenders, but not on the horizontals
    or the capital uprights\u2014as these start to look too weird & cutesy (haha)
    for a bank. All of the curve-to-a-point terminals are applied to curved terminals
    only, like a,c,e,s,f,t, etc. \r\n\r\n--K\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-08 20:00:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>You could say it was literal & simplistic, or you could say it was quite
    appropriate to the brief.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, I said it was literal, simplistic,
    and appropriate.\r\n\r\n<em>Are you insinuating that this isn\u2019t a thorough,
    from-scratch job?</em>\r\n\r\nI'm not insinuating. I'm offering my thoughts (as
    you requested) as to how the mechanics of the working relationship between a foundry,
    the foundry's client, and the client's client affect the design of a custom type.
    I'd be interested in your insights, rather than just a straight assertion of how
    perfectly the design delivers on the brief. \r\n\r\nWhether or not you drew it
    completely from scratch, or modified another of your designs, is not the issue.
    There is certainly nothing unprofessional about modifying one's own work to produce
    new designs; at the same time, drawing completely from scratch is no guarantee
    of quality. Conceptually, the wine typeface you showed here recently is more thoroughly
    original.\r\n\r\n<em>The rounded bits are not just slapped on here & there to
    make it \u2019friendly\u2019.</em>\r\n\r\nThey aren't? You have said that your
    client started you off with three rounded types--surely the metaphor that a rounded
    styling is friendly (not to mention fashionable) is central to the typographic
    ethos of this project? However, you were, understandably, unwilling to remain
    at that superficial level, seeking a richer implementation of the desired qualities,
    with the \"humanist\" features and proportions that you gave to the face. Nonetheless,
    the application of rounded corners wherever they don't look too cutsey does seem
    to be a compromise. Despite your explanation of a system, there still seems to
    be a certain arbitrariness in the application of round corners. Why, for instance,
    is the top left of \"u\" sharp, but not the top left of \"n\"? Why no rounded
    corners in \"w\"?\r\n\r\nThere's absolutely nothing wrong with making styling
    decisions with a discriminating eye, in fact, it polishes faces to perfection.
    But conceptually, when a client specifies not just a brief of abstract qualities,
    but an execution such as a rounded finish, how can that free the designer to do
    a completely thorough, from scratch, job? \r\n"
  created: '2008-10-08 21:21:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Whether or not you drew it completely from scratch,\r\n> or modified another
    of your designs, is not the issue.\r\n\r\nIt certainly can be an issue, and I
    would say generally is, since a \"custom\" solution does mean something special
    to the client. Even if a client is not knowledgeable about type, he will feel
    cheated if the font they paid a lot of money for is based on an existing one.
    On the other hand, if one tells the client this is what will be happening (as
    I've done recently for a client in Armenia) then it's OK.\r\n\r\n> There is certainly
    nothing unprofessional about modifying one\u2019s own work to produce new designs\r\n\r\nNick,
    know that this was not the tone of your previous message.\r\n\r\n> surely the
    metaphor that a rounded styling is friendly (not to mention\r\n> fashionable)
    is central to the typographic ethos of this project?\r\n\r\nYou don't know that.
    Even if you or I think it's friendly, that doesn't mean the client thought so.\r\n\r\n>
    how can that free the designer to do a completely thorough, from scratch, job?\r\n\r\nOf
    course, nothing is completely from scratch. Duh.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-08 21:33:52'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>Why, for instance, is the top left of \u201Cu\u201D sharp, but not the
    top left of \u201Cn\u201D? Why no rounded corners in \u201Cw\u201D?</em>\r\n\r\nI
    see logic in this, as Kris already explained - compare Bookman:\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bookman_5556.gif]"
  created: '2008-10-08 21:45:01'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'Wow, Kris ! Looks like your design has touched some sensitive nerves. Bravo! '
  created: '2008-10-08 21:45:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Segue from Craig: http://typophile.com/node/17047\r\n\"Head-serifs on lc
    'u' - decision process?\"\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-08 21:58:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Nick, know that this was not the tone of your previous message.</em>\r\n\r\nLook
    again. I'm situating the discussion in terms of the professional process.\r\n\r\n<em>You
    don\u2019t know that. Even if you or I think it\u2019s friendly, that doesn\u2019t
    mean the client thought so.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's why I'm asking Kris, \"Surely....?\r\nFrom
    my perspective, the equation of rounded type with friendliness is pretty obvious.\r\n\r\n<em>Of
    course, nothing is completely from scratch. Duh.</em>\r\n\r\nOf course it is.
    If your brief consists of abstract qualities, then the conceptualization is entirely
    up to you; and if you draw all your characters (no tracing or re-using exisiting
    paths), that's from scratch. Duh.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-08 22:22:30'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "On the \"slightly reversed contrast\" I meant as I said the a, which goes
    from relatively thick to the reduced, curved terminal, doesn't work so well, whereas
    the g tail, which tapers first, to me is very successful. And for me the top of
    the e and the r seem to have a little too much 'meat' also. The s is better, and
    again the g just right. \r\n\r\nI don't 'get' the illustration with Bookman; it
    seems to me totally different than Serrano. As to the treatment on the other verticals
    of the lower case, if you compare Meta, for example, on this there is not just
    horizontal sheers, but different treatment to go with the bent stem tops on the
    mnr. To me this is more harmonious. "
  created: '2008-10-08 22:48:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> \u201CSurely....?\r\n\r\nThat's a classic rhetorical-question structure.\r\n\r\n>
    ... if you draw all your characters ...\r\n\r\nBut to do that you have to have
    <em>looked</em>\r\nat <em>something</em> during your lifetime!\r\n\r\n> I don\u2019t
    \u2019get\u2019 the illustration with Bookman\r\n\r\nLook at the head serifs.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-08 23:04:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>That\u2019s a classic rhetorical-question structure.</em>\r\n\r\nSurely
    not when directly addressing somebody?\r\n\r\n<em>But to do that you have to have
    looked at something during your lifetime!</em>\r\n\r\nAre you saying that \"drawing
    from scratch\" has no meaning?\r\nI take it to mean that one starts with a blank
    page and works without tracing or pasting."
  created: '2008-10-08 23:44:36'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I wonder if all of this isn't just subjective. I mean if someone goes to a
    specific foundry, already knowing their other work, perhaps they are hoping for
    traces of what they like in the other typefaces. Whether or not something originates
    from a blank slate shouldn't matter. It is the final result that matters.
  created: '2008-10-09 00:24:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Kris wrote: <em>I\u2019m not seeing the reversed contrast, there isn\u2019t
    any in there. Serrano has a fairly standard contrast. Where are you seeing it?</em>\r\n\r\nI
    suspect the comments re. 'reversed contrast' are in response to the strong x-height
    and baseline horizontals and the correspondingly reduced weight in the mid-zone
    in the frequent letters a e and s, most notable in the heavier weight. You're
    right, Kris, this isn't 'reversed contrast', but I can see how this kind of weight
    manipulation might remind people of Evert's Balance. What Serrano actually has
    is Jean Fran\xE7ois Porchez-style <em>\u2019orizontalit\xE9.</em> Very nice, too."
  created: '2008-10-09 03:22:00'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "I am not sure the problem is that these matters are subjective. Describing
    or comparing visual features of typefaces, their roundness, edgyness etc, is part
    of our job, whether explicitly done or not. My problem is with describing type
    as \"cute\", \"friendly\", \"beautiful\". What we associate with a typeface is
    what happens in our's minds but is nothing found on paper as such. We better stick
    to describing what we see, like \"rounded\" (Nick) or \"curve-to-a-point terminals\"*
    (Kris) -- and <em>then</em>, maybe, if we feel like it, utter what we associate
    with this.\r\n\r\n* Finally I have a term for this.&nbsp;&nbsp;:)\r\n\r\nTrying
    to make sense of what has been said: Maybe the issue is that quite a few typefaces
    use a curve-vs-corner trick so they look either <em>a bit</em> rounded or <em>less</em>
    rounded. 1. With curve-to-a-point terminals -- especially Underware's work (Dolly,
    Sauna) stimulated others to adopt this feature. 2. With point-in-curve counter,
    a corner inside \"e\" or \"o\" counters -- that's the opposite, to make it look
    <em>less</em> round, part of the Reading house-style. Both found in sanserif and
    serif typefaces alike. In so far it's not a \"just slapped on\" issue (using Kris'
    term, cannot find who brought this up), but that curve-to-a-point or point-in-curve
    appear as just two ingredients that can be switched on/off with virtually every
    kind of typeface -- 1. like \"e\" or \"c\" curve-to-a-point terminals in very
    different styles like Serrano or Omnes or seriffed Sauna, and 2. there was an
    entire Typophile thread dedicated to typefaces with point-in-curve counters (cannot
    find it now)."
  created: '2008-10-09 04:00:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> part of the Reading house-style.\r\n\r\nReally? That seems more Dutch to
    me.\r\nThe Reading drive isn't so chirographic.\r\n\r\nBTW, have you guys heard
    of the term \"foxtail terminal\"?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-09 05:28:58'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>My problem is with describing type as \u201Ccute\u201D, \u201Cfriendly\u201D,
    \u201Cbeautiful\u201D. What we associate with a typeface is what happens in our\u2019s
    minds but is nothing found on paper as such.</em>\r\n\r\nI talked further with
    Kris about this and it's so hard to describe what you are seeing that what you
    are feeling is sometimes easier (and maybe clearer, even if less precise). It's
    not the terminal treatments that make this work 'cute', it's the handling of all
    of the curves: they're all a bit over-plump you might say (or tend towards the
    super-ellipse if you want more techy terminology). It's this feature that makes
    all of Kris' work 'friendly', IMO. To me it's this feature that really sets Seranno
    and Foco apart: despite the rounded terminals of Foco, it feels more 'neutral'
    (throw me a more techinical term for that!) to me because the handling of the
    curves is different (to my eyes at least).\r\n\r\nterminology is such a tricky
    thing, really. even seemingly universal terms such as 'yellow' are cultural constructs
    and mean different things to different people. To me it's obvious that Kris' concept
    of a 'curve' is different from my own."
  created: '2008-10-09 09:06:42'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "> part of the Reading house-style.\r\n\r\nWell, judge for yourself: http://www.typefacedesign.org\r\nI
    can see what Karsten means: most diversely implemented \u2013 for instance \u2013
    in Paul Hunt\u2019s <a href=\"http://www.typefacedesign.org/resources/A5specimen/2008/PaulHunt_GrandiaGandhara_specimen.pdf\">Grandia</a>,
    Rob Keller\u2019s <a href=\"http://www.youshouldliketypetoo.com/type-design/vesper-preview/\">Vesper</a>,
    Fermello\u2019s <a href=\"http://www.typefacedesign.org/resources/A5specimen/2007/FernandoMello_Frida_specimen.pdf\">Frida</a>
    \u2026 Jelmar Geertsma <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/37075\">digs that kind
    of counters</a>, too.\r\n\r\nThen again, this preference is not limited to Reading,
    of course. Jarno Lukkarila\u2019s <a href=\"http://www.jarnolukkarila.com/template.php?yksikko=format_design&sivu=about&alasivu=about_xtra_sans&alasivu_taso_2=neo-gothic_construction&lang=en\">Xtra
    Sans</a> is a prime example for the <cite>point-in-curve counter</cite> \u2013
    and he studied at [[KABK]].\r\n\r\nThere are a lot of other examples in this thread:
    <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/41687\">Cut and then curved</a>"
  created: '2008-10-09 11:20:29'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>in Paul Hunt\u2019s Grandia</em>\r\n\r\nyou'll see it to less an extent
    in the display sizes... here i'm using it mainly as a device for keeping counters
    open for fonts intended for small sizes for a calligraphicly-flavoured typeface.
    The rationlized cousin of Grandia will dispense with this device."
  created: '2008-10-09 12:17:30'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "I have not seen anything of Serrano other than the web samples but based
    on those let me say again: this was conceptualized beautifully from scratch and
    is the very opposite of the kind of work that is done by designers who take something
    off the shelf and make a few (or many) changes -- an MO I frown on. Again, as
    near as I can judge, the Serrano implementation is superb in a way that is still
    extremely rare today. By implementation I mean primarily truly excellent fitting
    and other factors that make the typeface harmonious, usable, and useful. For example,
    I am crazy about Paul's Grandia typeface, which shows such deep understanding
    of the intangibles of serious reading, but I don't think the fitting is there
    yet based on the sample referenced here. Great fitting is a skill few great type
    designers have, and ideally would not have to worry about. Nick, I love your type
    but Richler proved you were not very comfortable with text fitting, remember?
    Part of what I am trying to say is that one of the reasons why Kris's decisions
    to treat this element (n) one way and that element (u) another way is <em>not</em>
    important is that the overall appearance of the set typeface is so overwhelmingly
    convincing. No doubt Serrano is open to criticism, but I have not yet heard a
    pertinent criticism expressed yet. As for prediction that\r\n\r\n>Surviving corporations
    will need to rebrand.\r\n\r\nI'll take a bet that this one will stick with Kris's
    identity for some time to come."
  created: '2008-10-09 17:48:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Spacing requires a coupling of abstract analytical skill and the desire to
    use it. And somebody who feels like an artist is unlikely to enjoy the latter,
    even if he happens to enjoy the former (which is rare).\r\n\r\n> I\u2019ll take
    a bet that this one will stick with Kris\u2019s identity for some time to come.\r\n\r\nSure.
    Five years to be exact (the duration of the exclusivity). But that doesn't mean
    Nick isn't right about it being too \"friendly\" -hence not sober enough- for
    these times (through no fault of Kris, since that's what the client asked for
    - although maybe DNAD should have said something, early on). The age of the straight
    line might be coming back, which is a shame, since that would seem to preclude
    organicity, which is just now taking flight for real (and I like it a lot).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-09 19:23:23'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "<em>I\u2019m offering my thoughts (as you requested) as to how the mechanics
    of the working relationship between a foundry, the foundry\u2019s client, and
    the client\u2019s client affect the design of a custom type. I\u2019d be interested
    in your insights, rather than just a straight assertion of how perfectly the design
    delivers on the brief.</em>\r\n\r\nThe mechanics are pretty straight forward.
    They came to me wanting a custom typeface to fit into their new branding direction.
    I looked at what they had graphic design wise, their mood boards, which typefaces
    they were referencing & talked to the AD about what was good & bad about those
    typefaces. Once I had a clear idea of what they needed I started drawing (yes,
    from a blank slate). The design was sent through at various stages to get feedback
    & sign-off, all the way until it was finished. Isn't this how everyone does it?
    \r\n\r\n<em>Nonetheless, the application of rounded corners wherever they don\u2019t
    look too cutsey does seem to be a compromise. Despite your explanation of a system,
    there still seems to be a certain arbitrariness in the application of round corners.
    Why, for instance, is the top left of \u201Cu\u201D sharp, but not the top left
    of \u201Cn\u201D? Why no rounded corners in \u201Cw\u201D?</em>\r\n\r\nI put the
    curves in where it made visual sense to me. Any more would have ruined it. I tried
    rounded bits on the 'u' and 'w' but they looked wrong. If that is arbitrary, then
    so be it! \r\n\r\n\r\n<em>But conceptually, when a client specifies not just a
    brief of abstract qualities, but an execution such as a rounded finish, how can
    that free the designer to do a completely thorough, from scratch, job?</em>\r\n\r\nI'm
    not sure I understand why this is relevant. I'm a designer, not an artist. I want
    and need their feedback and input to make a typeface suitable for them. They initially
    wanted rounded corners, like Unit Rounded. I didn't do that, but we arrived at
    the rounded-to-a-point curve mutually during the collaborative design process.
    I think that client involvement makes a thorough job.\r\n\r\n<em>On the \u201Cslightly
    reversed contrast\u201D I meant as I said the a, which goes from relatively thick
    to the reduced, curved terminal\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nAh. I thought you meant I had
    gone totally Antique Olive/Balance! Maybe one day, for something else.\r\n\r\n<em>What
    Serrano actually has is Jean Fran\xE7ois Porchez-style \u2019orizontalit\xE9.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat
    a lovely term for it!\r\n\r\n<em>I\u2019ll take a bet that this one will stick
    with Kris\u2019s identity for some time to come.</em>\r\n\r\nHey Bill, just to
    clarify that the identity isn't mine, only the typeface. I'd hate to take credit
    where it's not due\u2026\r\n\r\n--K\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-09 19:38:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Richler proved you were not very comfortable with text fitting, </em>\r\n\r\nBill,
    your opinion doesn't prove anything."
  created: '2008-10-09 19:38:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Kris, thanks for the further detail.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-09 19:49:12'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>I tried rounded bits on the \u2019u\u2019 and \u2019w\u2019 but they
    looked wrong. If that is arbitrary, then so be it!</cite>\r\n\r\nThat makes sense.
    Maybe it's analog to serif typefaces where u v w x y serifs (need to?) differ
    from the others to look \"right\", horizontal rather than diagonal. Not arbitrary
    but by intention."
  created: '2008-10-09 19:52:43'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I had heard of fox tail but since forgotten about it. Does the wiki have a
    page for the [[terminal]]? I think a list of descriptive terminals should be added.
  created: '2008-10-09 20:15:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://typophile.com/node/46990\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-09 20:26:04'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">Bill, your opinion doesn\u2019t prove anything.\r\n\r\nNick, you're not
    going to learn how to fit until you give up that system (for I must admit that
    it is a system, in that it is calculated to do everything wrong rather than right).
    And you aspire to release a Scotch in competition with Matthew Carter? "
  created: '2008-10-09 20:36:13'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Thanks for reminding me, Hrant.
  created: '2008-10-09 20:39:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>you\u2019re not going to learn how to fit until you give up that system</em>\r\n\r\nYou
    have no idea what you're talking about.\r\nI used \"that system\" once, as an
    experiment--which was quite successful, actually.\r\n\r\n<em>...you aspire to
    release a Scotch...</em>\r\n\r\nI already have. "
  created: '2008-10-09 22:45:55'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Paul\u2019s Grandia typeface, which shows such deep understanding of
    the intangibles of serious reading, but I don\u2019t think the fitting is there
    yet based on the sample referenced here.</em>\r\n\r\nthanks, bill! believe me,
    i'm keenly aware of the efficiencies of the fitting and struggled with it a long
    time before i had to give up in order to have something to submit for my practical.
    i fully intend on revisiting that, but have much yet to learn in the realms of
    inter-letter spacing. anyway, back to the lovely Seranno... :D\r\n\r\n<em>The
    age of the straight line might be coming back, which is a shame, since that would
    seem to preclude organicity</em>\r\n\r\ni'm sure the organic will be in vogue
    quite a bit longer..."
  created: '2008-10-09 23:16:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick (and/or Bill), how does this \"system\" work?\r\n\r\nConcerning the
    \"in competition with Matthew Carter\" bit, if we're talking about commercial
    competition* then quite sadly, as Mrs Eaves has shown so well, good spacing doesn't
    necessarily matter much. It's been the best-selling Emigre font (and that's saying
    a lot) even though Robin Kinross has equated it with a loose bicycle (while I've
    equated it with a high attractive women with a severe speech impediment).\r\n\r\n*
    As opposed to critical competition, which is not something Nick (or Matthew, who
    is however too modest to do so anyway) should present an opinion about, leaving
    it to others to determine.\r\n\r\nPaul, I most certainly hope you're right.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-10 01:29:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...how does this \u201Csystem\u201D work?</em>\r\n\r\nA bit off topic
    for this thread, but it's explained in the Richler PDF.\r\nhttp://www.shinntype.com/Richler.pdf\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-10 04:10:35'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'The theory apparently is that squarish rounds should be fitted as if they
    were straights, not rounds. (This has got nothing to do with DIN, which in Pool''s
    version is fitted by a master.) The result is that rounds have about twice the
    sidebearings on either side that they need. (Strangely this did not occur to Zapf
    whose competently fitted Melior is the ultimate parent of this typeface -- not
    that Melior should be encouraged to breed.) Another global problem is that the
    caps are incorrectly fitted in relation to the lowercase, leading to the excessive
    gaps between uppercase letters followed by lowercase letters. Look at commissioned,
    where mmi is reasonable but co is too loose, om is looser still, and the snobbish
    e has erected a hedge to shield its unwelcome neighbours from view. Ca and Ra
    show the problem with the caps. '
  created: '2008-10-10 14:07:56'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: To forestall Hrant, the reason Mrs Eaves succeeds is not because of its bad
    spacing but in spite of it. The typeface has real charm and the looseness is tonic.
    Fixing the bad relationships but maintaining the looseness of Mrs Eaves, as more
    than one expert technician of my acquaintance has been paid well to do, only improves
    the typeface. One hopes that Licko has learnt something in the meantime, but refitting
    the commercial font would be impossible because of the necessity to preserve line
    integrity in older documents. On the other hand, there are people who are simply
    too invested in their sense of authority to learn.
  created: '2008-10-10 14:52:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Ultimately, \u201Cfit\u201D is not a matter of right or wrong.\r\n\r\nI
    don't agree. Getting good rhythm and color is important to readability, and so
    readability is a constraint on text faces that does make for \"right\" and \"wrong\".
    This is probably a range rather than a bright line, though. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-10 17:02:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Bill, you are too tied to convention. Overly invested in a sense of authority,
    one might say.\r\nInnovation is not, per se, incorrect. Of course, the sidebearings
    of Richler don't look right when one examines them closely and looks for divergence
    from standard theory and practice. In fact, I had to overcome my prejudices and
    concentrate on how the face reads in text, to fully commit to the concept.\r\n\r\nUltimately,
    \"fit\" is not a matter of right or wrong. Like other aspects of type design,
    it's more a question of style and tone, and the personal discrimination of the
    designer. There are different styles of fit, and Richler is wide and open, whether
    you like it or not.\r\n\r\nThe face hasn't been used much, due to the exclusive
    conditions of the licence, but if you'd care to see it in its intended context,
    you might enjoy this--and learn something:\r\nhttp://www.amazon.ca/Dispatches-Sporting-Life-Mordecai-Richler/dp/0676974783\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-10 17:03:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The theory apparently is that squarish rounds\r\n> should be fitted as
    if they were straights\r\n\r\nIt seems to go even further. For example, the left
    side of the \"b\" would be spaced the same as the left of the \"h\", right? Basically
    it sounds like it's aiming for uniform spacing of the main verticals, ignoring
    lesser parts of glyphs.\r\n\r\n> Melior is the ultimate parent of this typeface\r\n\r\nI'm
    not seeing that.\r\n\r\n> To forestall Hrant, the reason Mrs Eaves succeeds\r\n>
    is not because of its bad spacing but in spite of it.\r\n\r\nWell, that's what
    I already said.\r\n\r\n> Fixing the bad relationships but maintaining the looseness
    of\r\n> Mrs Eaves, as more than one expert technician of my acquaintance\r\n>
    has been paid well to do, only improves the typeface.\r\n\r\nWhen it comes to
    text, I can't agree. There's a relationship between a font's vertical proportions,
    color and spacing, and Mrs Eaves has to either be a lot tighter (to work at around
    14 point) or darker, larger on the body & a bit tighter (to work at smaller sizes).
    For display work though I can see its airiness being aesthetically useful.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    who are these re-designers? Is it legal?\r\n\r\n> refitting the commercial font
    would be impossible\r\n\r\nNot impossible, just annoying to a minority of users
    who for some rarified reason have to go back and reset a large work with the new
    version. Plus those people could just have both versions on hand.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    do I actually remember correctly that Emigre eventually -and quietly- released
    an updated version (I mean after the OT one) with the spacing fixed? (Maybe it
    was a dream I had...)\r\n\r\n> there are people who are simply too invested\r\n>
    in their sense of authority to learn.\r\n\r\nThis is the real problem.\r\nArtistes.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBTW,
    to those of you who are weary of the chronic Mrs Eaves bashing and/or fearful
    of yet another flame war sparked by the bashing, understand that the bashing happens
    because of Mrs Eaves's combination of commercial success and poor craft. This
    combination unnerves some of us, because it makes us feel like all our attention
    to detail goes ignored by most graphic designers. And it does. But we have to
    remember why we really do apportion this attention.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-10 17:12:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I don\u2019t agree.</em>\r\n\r\nBut Bill, surely if you asked several
    different type designers to \"fit\" the same set of glyphs, they would each do
    it differently, and each would argue that the discrimination of his/her eye was
    best?"
  created: '2008-10-10 17:15:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> concentrate on how the face reads in text\r\n\r\nThis is pretty much impossible
    for a designer to do\r\nwhen it comes to his own work. One needs help.\r\n\r\n>
    \u201Cfit\u201D is not a matter of right or wrong.\r\n\r\nThat's art talk, not
    design talk.\r\n\r\nRichler however does have great style. If/when the\r\nexclusivity
    runs out you might consider respacing it.\r\n\r\n> each would argue that the discrimination
    of his/her eye was best?\r\n\r\nThat doesn't mean they're using different <em>philosophies</em>
    of spacing. Plus some designers -like Paul in this very thread- are modest enough
    to admit they are not Perfect.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-10 17:17:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Back to Serrano:\r\n\r\nKris, your website won't work for me.\r\nCan you
    please post images of the Serrano fonts in this thread?"
  created: '2008-10-10 17:27:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...how the face reads in text...This is pretty much impossible for a
    designer to do.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat I mean is that the designer should not apportion
    metrics primarily by examining large images of glyphs in the metrics window of
    FontLab, but by reading paragraphs of text printed out at book text size.\r\n\r\n<em>That\u2019s
    art talk, not design talk.</em>\r\n\r\nEven though they may adhere to the same
    philosophy, can't type designers have personal style in implementing it?\r\nDoesn't
    one type designer \"fit\" differently than another?\r\nSlimbach and Licko, for
    instance, are at different ends of the tight/loose spectrum.\r\nBut why should
    there be only one acceptable philosophy of fit?"
  created: '2008-10-10 17:30:20'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> <cite>Getting good rhythm and color is important to readability, and so
    readability is a constraint on text faces...</cite>.\r\n\r\nI agree with William.
    <strong>Good rhythm is consistantcy in color.</strong> There should not be strips
    of white space between the letters or words due to the shapes of the sides of
    the letters. This is where good kerning comes into play, as certain letter pairs
    need to be closer together, whiles others need to be further apart.\r\n\r\nGenerally
    speaking, larger type is tighter to a fault, and smaller type is looser. Text
    faces for children are a little looser even at medium sizes, or the typeface design
    is very wide, like Schoolbook.\r\n\r\nIn a well-made OpenType font, kerning becomes
    obsolete, or is only used as an override, like in InDesign diacritics panel (I
    assume the non-ME regular version has this pallete). \r\n\r\nI wonder if the leading
    OpenTpe font-makers are adding this extra feature. David Berlow of FontBureau,
    is this the case with your fonts? Thomas Pinney of Adobe, co-makers of OpenType,
    is this feature in your fonts? Is Linotype still around?"
  created: '2008-10-10 17:36:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Fit should have more to do with the actual glyphs in the individual font
    than with an external philosophy. It is more about visual physics and balancing
    forces inherent in the font than a personal philosophy of either aesthetics or
    readability. The problem is that there is no true measure that fits what the human
    eye and mind does in the act of reading. There are several possible ways to balance
    an equation when most of the factors are unknowns. Each designer uses his or her
    own set of visual measurements and ratios to find an answer. There have been both
    successes and failures in fitting using any methods available. Perhaps it is not
    the system one uses but the quality of execution one arrives at?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-10-10 17:44:01'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Right Chris, that's what I was trying to get at.
  created: '2008-10-10 17:47:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I wonder if the leading OpenTpe font-makers are adding this extra feature.\"\r\n\r\nWhat
    feature are you talking about? You can't mean the glyph palette, it is part of
    the application software.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-10-10 17:48:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Israel, Open Type doesn't do away with the benefit of kerning, at least for
    roman fonts. \r\n\r\n>Perhaps it is not the system one uses but the quality of
    execution one arrives at?\r\n\r\nI think the problem is if you substitute a 'system'
    for the eye, which is I fear what Nick did with this one type face. But I would
    need to see it in text before judging. \r\n\r\nBoth Kern Master and iKern are
    reputed to do a pretty good job. That tells me that there is a lot of constraint
    on how much variation you can do, and still have it work well for small, extended
    text. In fact the constraint can be done as an algorithm, to a great extent. That
    tells me that the eye has pretty strict demands on what is successful in text.
    \r\n\r\n>visual physics and balancing forces inherent in the font   \r\n\r\nBut
    that is exactly what makes a font readable, Chris. If it were just personal expression,
    you could say to hell with balance. But you won't end up with a successful text
    face."
  created: '2008-10-10 17:59:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Sorry, re. \"Dispatches\", the hardcover is a better option:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/Dispatches-Sporting-Life-Mordecai-Richler/dp/B0001PBXNW"
  created: '2008-10-10 18:01:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em> if you substitute a \u2019system\u2019 for the eye, which is I fear
    what Nick did with this one type face.</em>\r\n\r\nAs I said, I had a non-standard
    \"system\", more of a general principle really, which I fine-tuned by eye, i.e.
    by according primacy to reading paragraphs of printed text, not the monitor. But
    yes, please judge the face in a book, not from a PDF on screen."
  created: '2008-10-10 18:07:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Slimbach and Licko, for instance, are at\r\n> different ends of the tight/loose
    spectrum.\r\n\r\nThey're at different ends of other spectra as well.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBTW
    Kris, I was wondering but forgot to ask:\r\nHow did you (plural?) choose the name?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-10 18:13:13'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">There are several possible ways to balance an equation when most of the
    factors are unknowns. Each designer uses his or her own set of visual measurements
    and ratios to find an answer. There have been both successes and failures in fitting
    using any methods available. Perhaps it is not the system one uses but the quality
    of execution one arrives at?\r\n\r\nYes. There are four basic questions to answer:
    how do you space H, O, n, o ? Everything follows from that. So: you have four
    dependent parameters: cap straights, cap rounds, lc straights, lc rounds. (Not
    that these do not have variations. For example, left b will sometimes be substantially
    less than left l. And it can happen, not seldom in a 'Modern', that what is right
    for n is not right for m.) \r\n\r\nThe problem is that we look at these parameters
    as independent, when they are all dependent. Richler is a textbook example of
    this situation: the lc straights are a little loose, but the lc rounds are very,
    very loose. And the caps don't relate to either.\r\n\r\nNick, if you can't see
    the disharmony of the Richler spacing, it's time to take a fresh look. Don't you
    want to be remembered for your successes rather than your failures, interesting
    and educative as they may be? \r\n\r\nNeedless to say, spacing is only, ever,
    optimal at one point size. You hope, in a single master type, to have designed
    that optimal size such that positive tracking can take care of the smaller sizes
    and negative tracking can take care of the larger sizes. Or you design other sizes
    with different spacing. Or you tell your single master customers that they should
    only use the type at once size.\r\n\r\nThere is no one right way, but just because
    that is true, it doesn't make a wrong way a right way. For example, o spacing
    in relation to n spacing is typically looser in Lino metal (and photo/digital);
    tighter in Mono metal, and tighter still in ATF metal. (Benton liked tight o's.)
    Matthew Carter has suggested that one reason for this progression may simply have
    to do with the comparative fragility of the type in the three systems. However
    that may be, Sumner Stone for example prefers looser o's in relation to n's than
    Carter does.\r\n\r\nWhatever way you solve the relationships, you must do so plausibly,
    without obvious rivers of space running through a single word. Like 'commission'
    in the Richler pdf where it will be obvious even to an un-typographically sophisticated
    reader that something is amiss. Look at 'personality'. lity is nicely spaced.
    But everything else is too loose, and the p looks as if it weren't even attached
    to the word.\r\n\r\nI suspect there may be more subtle problems, too. Look at
    full. ll is very nice, but I would guess that u has the same right sidebearing
    as l. It needs less, because it is only at x-height. It's a pity, because the
    typeface could really sing with good fitting! "
  created: '2008-10-10 19:15:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> ... o spacing in relation to n spacing is ...\r\n\r\nFrom my own experience
    I have a hunch that this might be due -at least in part- to the relative importance
    one gives to control-string spacing versus real-language spacing. If you rely
    too much on control-string spacing, the round-straight sequence (and by extension
    the overall) becomes too loose when you actually set text. One solution is to
    set round sidebearings tight, then gently kern the round-rounds positively. This
    is what I did in Harrier, and people seem to think highly of its spacing.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-10 20:26:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Nick, if you can\u2019t see the disharmony of the Richler spacing, it\u2019s
    time to take a fresh look.</em>\r\n\r\nBill, if you can\u2019t see the harmony
    of the Richler spacing, it\u2019s time to take a fresh look.  \r\nThere is nothing
    wrong with the type's metrics.\r\nCertainly, it looks strange when examined closely
    (as if it were a headline), but that's not how one reads a book, is it?\r\nPlease
    get hold of a book, take a look at the mise-en-page and reconsider your prejudices:\r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/Dispatches-Sporting-Life-Mordecai-Richler/dp/B0001PBXNW\r\nhttp://www.amazon.ca/This-My-Country-Whats-Yours/dp/0771075332\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-10 20:28:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>One solution is to set round sidebearings tight, then gently kern the
    round-rounds positively. </em>\r\n\r\nYes, I did that in Figgins Sans. Primarily
    so that it sets well when large and tracked negatively, but I found that it doesn't
    hurt text setting either."
  created: '2008-10-10 20:30:04'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">One solution is to set round sidebearings tight, then gently kern the round-rounds
    positively. This is what I did in Harrier, and people seem to think highly of
    its spacing.\r\n\r\nThat's fantastic, Hrant. You independently discovered one
    of the cornerstones of Berthold's spacing system: tight o's eliminate problems
    with caps and diagonals, and all possible o-o shapes have 10 or 20 units of positive
    kerning. If you subtract the cap-to-cap positive kerning, it's a fairly simple
    system.\r\n "
  created: '2008-10-10 21:23:25'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "<em>Kris, your website won\u2019t work for me. Can you please post images
    of the Serrano fonts in this thread?</em>\r\n\r\nThat's a bit worrying. What browser/platform
    are you using? Surely it must have been working before due to all of your comments?\r\n\r\n<em>How
    did you (plural?) choose the name?</em>\r\n\r\nFor commissions I have stay out
    of the naming process, I prefer to leave that up to the client. As far as I understand,
    <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jam\xF3n_serrano\"> Serrano</a> is a type
    of cured Spanish ham. It's a little bit of humour, as BNZ use loads of animated
    pigs in their ads.\r\n\r\n--K\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-10 21:37:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Bill, interesting info about Lino, Mono, and Berthold. What are the other
    principles were involved in the Berthold system? '
  created: '2008-10-10 21:44:02'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Yeah I have to admit the name threw me for a bit.  Serrano is a type of mountain
    and I was trying to figure out the connection to New Zealand.  Good to see the
    marketing people (who I presume named the font) have some good humor. \r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-10-10 22:07:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: ">visual physics and balancing forces inherent in the font...'If it were just
    personal expression, you could say to hell with balance.'\r\n\r\nBill, Huh? who
    even mentioned personal expression? You totally misunderstood me.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-10-10 22:25:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: ">One solution is to set round sidebearings tight, then gently kern the round-rounds
    positively. \r\n\r\nI always do this and even more so with caps. My biggest \"discovery\"
    (probably old hat to others but...) was to give up on Capital spacing feature
    and instead, space the caps purely with the lowercase then kern the caps to each
    other with positive kerning. This eliminates the unified application of space
    between all kinds of pairs and allows a more sensible approach. It only takes
    a couple of class-kerning pairs to work. The biggest factor is adding space between
    straight sidebearings with a chunk of positive kerning. It also lessens the issue
    with matching diagonals like A and V with straights like H and N.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-10-10 22:34:26'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\n> <cite>Open Type doesn\u2019t do away with the benefit of kerning,
    at least for roman fonts.</cite>\r\n\r\nIn OpenType, I can create a way each kind
    of character pair should be distanced from each other, and store it in the font.
    This is character-based kerning. Not in the application but in the font.\r\n\r\nWhy
    do you think it doesn't do away with kerning?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-10 22:38:12'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Dezcom,\r\n\r\n> <cite>What feature are you talking about? You can\u2019t
    mean the glyph palette, it is part of the application software.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    glyph palette only selects a letter at a time. Even if OpenType is selected in
    the Diacritics palette, no kerning-like feature results, if the OpenType font
    was hastily made.\r\n\r\nAs Paul Nelson, formerly the head of Microsoft Typography
    said: \"OpenType is [then] just a wrapper for a cross platform TrueType font.\"\r\n\r\nA
    \"true\" OpenType font can do much much more."
  created: '2008-10-10 22:46:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Surely it must have been working before due to all of your comments?</em>\r\n\r\nYes.
    I cleared my cache and it's working now."
  created: '2008-10-10 22:48:59'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">who even mentioned personal expression? You totally misunderstood me.\r\n\r\nSorry,
    let me try again. I am not talking about \"personal philosophy\" at all, but what
    is really going on when people read--that some fonts are better for text than
    others, and this has partly to do with spacing. Are we in agreement about that?
    Or are you making another point?  \r\n\r\nI am of course in agreement that the
    successful spacing depends on the individual letter shapes, and how they relate
    to others. \r\n\r\nIsrael, I guess I am not understanding you either. Are you
    referring to using Open Type features for kerning rather than \"flat\" kerning?
    That's not doing away with kerning, its just using a different means to kern,
    right? "
  created: '2008-10-10 22:54:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>tight o\u2019s eliminate problems with caps and diagonals,</em>\r\n\r\nAnother
    option is to give v's and w's negative widebearings (which would be considered
    kerning in metal type!), as in Georgia, for instance."
  created: '2008-10-10 23:33:07'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "William, to answer your question about Berthold kerning, the other primary
    feature, and the one that takes up the most space, is positive cap-to-cap kerning.
    However, the purpose of this is not to fix errors that could have occurred because
    of incorrect relationships with the lowercase or with itself. The purpose is to
    guarantee, by default, well-spaced (near \"letterspaced\") caps in all-cap settings.
    I don't actually think it's a good system, though no less an authority than Erik
    Spiekermann is very much in favour of it. I think what Matthew Carter has worked
    out in his later work (the past ten or fifteen years) is just about the best.
    It is much more sophisticated, and not always easy to understand, but I always
    find that his fonts have the answer to any question I encounter. And I always
    have plenty, because I am not one of nature's fitters, and always find it a trial.
    \r\n\r\n>BTW, who are these re-designers? Is it legal?\r\n\r\nNo names! Under
    Adobe's rules, it would be legal, provided that the user had a license to the
    font. With Emigre I wouldn't like to say, except that a lot of use of the fonts
    would not take place without this treatment, and they don't seem to have sued
    anyone over it - - it would look so silly. How can you sue someone for repairing
    basic defects in your product? "
  created: '2008-10-10 23:43:48'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I want to remind folk that while it's natural for conversations to veer around
    a bit there is a point where a new thread is called for. That point occurred some
    time back in my opinion. If you want to keep talking about Kris' very nifty and
    well made typeface by all means continue. If you want to talk about Richler, spacing
    or your favorite recipe start a thread and link to it.
  created: '2008-10-12 01:34:27'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "great stuff as always Kriz.\r\n\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul
    Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic Design Melbourne</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.bicyclefilmfestival.com.au\">Bicycle Film Festival</a>\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-17 02:10:01'
date: '2008-10-01 23:24:55'
node_type: forum
title: 'Serrano: a custom typeface for Bank of New Zealand'

---
