---
author:
  name: nina
  picture: 111699
body: "Hello Typophiles!\r\n\r\nWhat a great place to be. :)\r\n\r\nI'm currently
  working on the digitization of an old metal face <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/49701\">I
  asked about here before</a>. I'm fairly new to type design, just having started
  the postgraduate type design course in Zurich, Switzerland, so please bear with
  me ;-).\r\n\r\nHere is the Uc alphabet:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/industria_alphabet_4091.jpg]\r\n\r\nWell,
  it has these unexpected quirky details. I just spent the entire afternoon trying
  to figure out the N, the question being that the joins of the diagonal with the
  left & right stems respectively are solved quite differently (these are my sketches,
  please forgive any crookedness). And interestingly, the \"asymmetrical N\" is only
  present in the original sample from Emil Gursch Foundry in Berlin (1910); Berthold
  slightly redesigned the typeface in the 1920s and rereleased it with symmetrical
  N joins. So I guess they were wondering too ;-)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/N_joins_variations_3920.png]\r\n\r\nHans
  J\xFCrg Hunziker, my teacher in this, told me to change it to make the joins equal.
  I realized changing the angle of the diagonal runs me into other problems, but found
  a very \"neutral\" variation by moving the diagonal a tad to the left.\r\n\r\nWhat
  I'd like to know, though, is why this may have been solved like this. While I would
  like to \"filter out\" some of the weirdnesses that stem from the lead \"medium\",
  as well as some of the historical specialties, I would still want my digitization
  to remain as true as possible to the original typeface, so if the thing with the
  N was a valid and purposeful design decision, I wouldn't necessarily want to change
  it. \r\n\r\nSo, can anyone tell me some reason why this asymmetry in the joins could
  have been a valid design decision? Does it relate to any of the other letterforms?
  (I realize the left join, as is, matches the apex of e.g. the A; but when I use
  this system on both joins, like in the middle sketch, the N looks a bit like it's
  about to break apart.)\r\n\r\nFWIW, whereas Karen Cheng's \"Designing Type\" does
  not show any asymmetrically joined sansserif N's, I've checked some other fonts
  and noticed that Verdana, for one, does the exact same thing \u2013 it has a \"flatter\"
  or \"wider\" join on the left and a more \"acute\" or narrower one on the right.\r\n\r\nThanks
  a lot for any input!\r\nNina"
comments:
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "What does the M, V, W, and Z look like in terms of joins? Try to maintain
    some conistency with them. Metal type usually requires a bit more allowance for
    inkspread and traps. You may want a tad less for your digital version.  Also,
    that is a very wide font. With that much width, the N is easier to deal with either
    way you approach it. Visually, you want a join both without a dark spot or a falling
    apart. Your eyes will tell you when it is right, not your ruler.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-10-04 20:11:35'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I haven't thought much about this before but\r\n\r\n1) It doesn't surprise
    me that a \"darker\" join works better at the bottom, but not at the top where
    it might look \"top-heavy.\"\r\n\r\n2) The way I would write a capital N is not
    symmetrical - I do the first stroke downwards, then the diagonal downwards and
    the other vertical upwards - like an I and a V. So conceptually, with writing
    in mind, a greater break works at the top left (where the pen actually picks up
    and restarts) than at the bottom right (where it just changes direction). \r\n\r\nI'm
    just making this up - I have no idea if either of these might have been rationale
    for your original design decision, but there you go. It's an interesting question."
  created: '2008-10-04 21:10:52'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: Some early sans-serif faces were slabs with the serifs chopped off. Perhaps
    the original design came from a slab. It's unlikely that the bottom right on the
    N would have had a serif which might explain why it's different.
  created: '2008-10-04 21:55:49'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thanks for your input, Chris and Craig.\r\n\r\n<i>Chris:</i> Thanks for the
    tip with the comparison to M, V, W, and Z.\r\nThe whole thing looks pretty inconsistent
    to me:\r\n\u2013 The W has really tight joins (and the apex looks like the ink
    would clog)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/W_roman_4194.png]\r\n\u2013
    The M has the wider ones where the diagonals join the stems\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/M_roman_4896.png]\r\n\u2013
    And the vertex of the V seems really black again.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/V_roman_5432.png]\r\n\r\nIt's
    interesting though that the Z, especially the lowercase, looks like an N rotated
    counterclockwise: The (although very slightly) \"wider\" join is at the bottom.
    \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/z_roman_3838.png]\r\nThat seems to make
    sense for the Z, although this time not in terms of the stroke order Craig indicated,
    but in terms of visual balance.\r\n\r\n\r\n<i>Craig:</i> That's highly interesting
    \u2013 so in that case, the asymmetry of this N may be related to this Serif form
    in terms of how they interpret stroke order in writing?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/georgia-N_5296.png]\r\nThat
    does seem to make a lot of sense. Although I wonder how much stroke order would
    have influenced the designer of this typeface.\r\n\r\n-- \r\n<i>learning is inherently
    an act of humiliation.</i>"
  created: '2008-10-04 22:07:12'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>Some early sans-serif faces were slabs with the serifs chopped off.
    Perhaps the original design came from a slab.</cite>\r\n\r\nWow, Ray, that would
    indeed explain a lot; I had no idea. Thanks for the suggestion! I'll try to find
    some specimen books & find out if there was indeed a similar slab, maybe even
    from the same foundry.\r\n\r\n-- \r\nlearning is inherently an act of humiliation."
  created: '2008-10-04 22:12:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"learning is inherently an act of humiliation\"\r\n\r\nNina, actually, Learning
    is inherently an act of illumination. A teacher may shine a light on a subject
    but you must still learn to see it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-10-04 23:06:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nina,\r\nHave you ever met Frank Vigliotti or Bill Schoerner there in Basel?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-10-04 23:08:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I just spent the entire afternoon trying to figure out the N\r\n\r\nIt
    seems that you've chosen the right field.  :-)\r\n\r\n> While I would like to
    \u201Cfilter out\u201D some of the weirdnesses that stem\r\n> from the lead \u201Cmedium\u201D,
    as well as some of the historical specialties,\r\n> I would still want my digitization
    to remain as true as possible to\r\n> the original typeface\r\n\r\n1) It's not
    so simple to separate the medium from the decisions.\r\n2) This weirdness can't
    be from the medium, so if you really do want to make a faithful revival* you should
    definitely keep it. That said, it's always nice to try to read the minds of dead
    people!\r\n\r\n* Not something I myself generally recommend.\r\n\r\n> can anyone
    tell me some reason why this asymmetry in the joins could have been a valid design
    decision?\r\n\r\n1) Dynamism. The \"N\" is more boring than most letters, so it
    needs more help.\r\n2) Incorporating a vestige of a serif; see the many serif
    \"N\"s that have a strong top-left but a weak bottom-right. There is no such thing
    as a pure sans or pure serif face; this one could very well be 98% sans, but 2%
    serif.\r\n3) Maybe an optical effect (like some people have suggested).\r\n\r\n>
    Does it relate to any of the other letterforms?\r\n\r\nHopefully yes!\r\n\r\n>
    The whole thing looks pretty inconsistent to me\r\n\r\nMore dynamism (potentially).
    If the whole thing was consistent except for the \"N\", then I'd worry.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-04 23:54:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nina,\r\nI am not one to do revivals so you might take this with a grain
    of salt. I would say, the point of making a digital version of a metal font is
    to make it available and usable in modern day equipment. To me that means to make
    it better for digital type and offset printing. To do that, you must make some
    departures from the metal face to make it work. This makes you decide what you
    mean by \"faithful\" or \"true\" revival. First, make it a good typeface. If that
    means cleaning up the joins to look better to you, then do it. My idea of better
    might differ from yours. As a student, your job is to define what is better for
    yourself. You will learn more that way than if you just take my advice or anyone
    elses. Try all the angle joins several ways and see which makes the best sense
    with the whole font. For example, to me that z looks crazy. I could not stand
    looking at it. If it does not bother you, ignore it but whatever you do, make
    all the letters live together in comfort. Comfort does not mean everything is
    exactly the same. Sometimes a contrast is good--as Hrant puts it, a \"dynamism\".\r\nType
    design is about hours of tinkering and debating nuances. If you start working
    on your typeface one afternoon and find that morning has come without your even
    knowing it, you may have found a field suitable for you :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-10-05 02:49:12'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Wow, this is getting really exciting. :-)\r\n\r\nChris, \r\nI am afraid I
    do not know either of the people you named. Then again, although I am from Basel
    and now living in Basel, I have been utterly unconnected to the Basel school \u2013
    until now that I am studying under some Basel graduates. I did my own studies
    in <a href=\"http://www.burg-halle.de/\">Halle, Germany</a>.\r\nAt least seen
    from this close distance, I would say the Basel school has lost much of the \"shine\"
    it had a couple of decades ago. They do not even do type design anymore, that
    happens in Zurich now. :-/\r\n\r\nWhat I meant about humiliation: In this occasion,
    I do find it to be humbling to find my own limits \u2013 of understanding, of
    (re-)production \u2013 to be very narrow when set against the complex beauty of
    letterforms. It is this humility (in a positive sense) that I need to be as open
    as possible about approaching new fields. I admit the quote may read as harsh
    but it does help me \u2013 usually, I like to be in charge of stuff, but that
    doesn't really work here. :-)  \r\n\"Illumination\", of course, makes a very neat
    quote as well.\r\n\r\nHrant,\r\nSeeing sans and serif not as a binary \"decision\"
    but a gradual axis is a highly illuminating (!) thought. I am getting more and
    more convinced that any type classification system that would make sense today
    would need axes in numerous dimensions; then again, it would probably not be very
    usable. But I digress.\r\nWhy are you not in favor of \"faithful revivals\": Is
    it because transplanting a font in the exact same shape into a new medium, time,
    and context would not pay enough homage to its original circumstances? \u2013
    I would not want to just trace it and voil\xE0; I think it needs a slight degree
    of \"modernization\" (plus there are some letters I simply can not live with,
    like the uppercase G, which I find incredibly hideous). \r\nThat said, I'm also
    a little worried about the other extreme \u2013 putting too much of myself into
    this so it would end up looking like a different typeface vaguely inspired by
    this one. That would feel like disrespecting the intentions of the dead person
    who designed it in the first place. Hmm.\r\n\r\nAlso, your respective comments
    on dynamism offer a very interesting perspective. I have long ago given up the
    idea that \"cool, if you have the b, you can make the dpq in 2 seconds\", but
    I guess it's time I forgot about the copy paste concept altogether. Coming from
    a graphic / interface design background, it sounds pretty wild to me to *not*
    render elements with the same function and position in the same style, for the
    sake of dynamism. I will have to think about how that may translate to other fields.
    Or maybe it does not, or in a very different form.\r\n\r\nAnd yes \u2026 I have
    to admit I am loving this. I have always been obsessed with details, and with
    letterforms and symbols anyway, so it is feeling good. :-) Thanks a lot for sharing
    your views!\r\n\r\nNina\r\n\r\n-- \r\nlearning is inherently an act of humiliation."
  created: '2008-10-05 12:24:28'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Nina --\r\n\r\nThis asymmetrical approach to the two joins in a gothic N
    is not that unheard of. Here are a few other examples I found quickly.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AsymmetricNs_5072.gif]\r\n\r\nLeft
    to right: Trade Gothic, ITC Franklin (the new revision by David Berlow), Benton
    Gothic. Varying degrees of asymmetry (that Benton Gothic is actually pretty subtle),
    but all following the same basic pattern.\r\n\r\nAs to \"why,\" I offer this supposition:
    As you and Craig have hinted at, I think it derives from the pattern of serif
    types (but not so much because of handwritten stroke order, as Craig suggests,
    though this is interesting). Consider the nature of N in a typical serif style.
    The joins are not the same. The upper join is capped with a serif form \u2014
    strong, flat, relatively wide, reinforcing the cap line. The baseline join, on
    the other hand, is a vertex pure and simple \u2014 sharp, acute, and often undershooting
    the baseline.\r\n\r\nThe asymmetrical treatment that you're noting is probably
    a vestige of this character of N. I believe you'll find that this quality is not
    uncommon in sans serifs that descend from the Grotesque/Gothic lineage. \r\n\r\nBTW,
    Blair \u2014 an all-caps face originally released by the Inland Type Foundry ca.
    1900, and later produced by ATF \u2014 bears a remarkable similarity to your caps,
    and in the original metal the N had asymmetrical joins of this type; but the ITC
    revival does not retain that detail.\r\n\r\n-- Kent.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-05 14:29:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Why are you not in favor of \u201Cfaithful revivals\u201D\r\n\r\nOne reason
    is that any person has <em>something</em> to contribute*, plus it's impossible
    to remain totally faithful to somebody else's original intent** anyway, so why
    not make a clean break? Another reason is that today is not yesterday, and today's
    users cannot fully benefit from something that worked (and we're really just guessing
    that it did) in the past. For example we might mostly agree that that \"G\" is
    too ugly, but it's possible that back in that time, in that environment, it was
    just dandy.\r\n\r\n* Although there should be severe limits on self-expression
    in type, especially text type (essentially making expression happen naturally,
    in a way in spite of yourself, as opposed to pushing it out) the fact that it
    is always there means we should see it as a good thing.\r\n\r\n** In fact a designer's
    intent typically changes over the course of the design! So which intent are you
    going to revive?  :-)\r\n\r\nInstead of seeing literal revivals as respecting
    the dead original designer, I see non-literal revivals as respecting the living
    users.\r\n\r\n> I have long ago given up the idea that \u201Ccool, if you have
    the b, you can make the dpq in 2 seconds\u201D\r\n\r\nGood! Some people remain
    stuck on that (in different dimensions, often the dimension of chirography, where
    the bowls of those letters are make too similar) for years, or even their entire
    careers.\r\n\r\n> I guess it\u2019s time I forgot about the copy paste concept
    altogether\r\n\r\nWell, it depends on the design. Copy-paste isn't totally useless,
    it's just a dangerous tool to be used carefully.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-05 16:00:17'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I believe you\u2019ll find that this quality is not uncommon in sans
    serifs that descend from the Grotesque/Gothic lineage.</cite>\r\n\r\nAgreed. I
    was sifting through an old gothics last night and asymmetric Ns were in the majority.
    As a new type designer I always get stopped by this.\r\n\r\nI think that this
    really comes down to making these letters work within the proportions of the overall
    font; the same thing happens with the middle vertexes of M and W. That it seems
    to appear more in older sans types might be a symptom of the drawing rooms where
    fonts were designed and manufactured by groups of people who weren\u2019t necessarily
    sharing an office and had limited options for communicating over distances and
    for testing and previewing type. Digital technology makes it easier to wipe out
    every perceived inconsistency\u2014although, as Hrant likes to point out, this
    is can be to the detriment of letters."
  created: '2008-10-05 16:54:50'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Kent,\r\nBlair is really quite similar to this one! I am somewhat relieved
    it's Uppercase only ;-). I also looked at Ray's <a href=\"http://www.typodermic.com/177.html\">Presicav</a>,
    which is also very similar. It has a slightly asymmetric N, at least discernible
    in the bolder weights. Ray, I assume it was asymmetric in Tempo too?\r\n\r\nHrant,\r\n<em>\"Instead
    of seeing literal revivals as respecting the dead original designer, I see non-literal
    revivals as respecting the living users.\"</em>\r\nThat is what I call a good
    point. :-)  I will definitely keep that in mind; in the end, my motivation to
    do this is not primarily a conservationist one, but on the contrary, I think this
    font has some qualities that may work very well in a contemporary environment
    too, and I definitely want to make it usable (just without completely betraying
    its roots).\r\n\r\nJames,\r\nI am realizing I really have no clue about how letters
    were designed back then; I guess it may be wrong to assume one designer that has
    total control over every letter & how they go together \u2013 which is probably
    more so today.\r\n\r\nI think I will try finding a compromise concept, roughly
    in the direction of the third sketch in my original post, work the joins / apexes
    / vertices of the AMVWZ in a similar fashion & then see what that does for the
    liveliness of the font \u2013 see if it becomes too bland or neutral. I'm really
    just at the start of this, in fact the only letters I've started to work on seriously
    are the O, N, A and T (and even the T is asymmetrical to a wild degree, but I
    don't think I can make myself keep that).\r\nMy teacher told me to do the lowercase
    first, as it is more interesting and complex, but I am half thinking I should
    first get some basic shape principles down as shown in the uppercase. I mean,
    if I can spend this much brainpower and time on the N, I don't (want to) know
    what would happen if I tried to do the lc a now. :-)\r\n\r\nThanks again for all
    the input guys \u2013 this is what I call a warm welcome to Typophile and the
    world of typeface design!\r\n\r\n-- \r\n<em>learning is inherently an act of humiliation.</em>"
  created: '2008-10-05 17:57:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"this is what I call a warm welcome to Typophile and the world of typeface
    design!\"\r\n\r\nType designers are a pretty down to earth bunch. Welcome to our
    little piece of the world! Come back often.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-10-05 18:03:58'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "<cite>I also looked at Ray\u2019s Presicav, which is also very similar. It
    has a slightly asymmetric N, at least discernible in the bolder weights. Ray,
    I assume it was asymmetric in Tempo too?</cite>\r\n\r\nYes but the difference
    is very, very subtle; nothing close to Kent's examples. Check the N in <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/typodermic/presicav/UniqueName-8414-1209656028-14-76722/opentype-ps/397664/character/004E/CP2/1/\">Presicav
    Bold</a> as it's the only weight traced from Tempo."
  created: '2008-10-05 19:19:14'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>My teacher told me to do the lowercase first, as it is more interesting
    and complex, but I am half thinking I should first get some basic shape principles
    down as shown in the uppercase.</cite>\r\n\r\nMake your ideas work in the minuscules
    first. That\u2019s what people will be seeing most of the time, so it really makes
    sense to have the majuscules complement the minuscules. It also takes more drama
    to make the majuscules stand out, and that drama might not transfer to minuscules
    so well.\r\n\r\nAnd don\u2019t be afraid to stick with the asymmetric N regardless
    of what the professor wants. But before you do, design a symmetric version so
    that you know what works better and why."
  created: '2008-10-05 20:49:06'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: I noticed <a href="http://photoshopdisasters.blogspot.com/2008/06/chanel-deformed-arm-trifecta.html">this
    one</a> today.
  created: '2008-10-05 21:03:40'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Ray, wow, the Chanel one is wild! Especially since it's so visible via the
    outlines. (I have actually seen that picture before but that was before I noticed
    asymmetric Ns.)\r\nAlso, the Presicav Bold N is nice. Very subtle.\r\n\r\nJames,
    thanks for the tip. That does sound like a bunch of good reasons to start with
    the minuscules. I've got to admit that they kind of scare me, but hell. :-)\r\n\r\n--
    \r\n<em>learning is inherently an act of humiliation.</em>"
  created: '2008-10-05 21:16:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Type designers are a pretty down to earth bunch.\r\n\r\nReally?! Maybe
    compared to witch doctors.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-05 22:25:05'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "To me, there is a very simple reason for different joins: raising the diagonal
    a bit and make it look more centered, just as one raises the bar of the H above
    the mathematical vertical center (where it would sit too low). With an N, there
    is no other way to achieve this effect than at the price of different joins.\r\nAs
    your remark about the Chanel logo indicates -- <cite>(I have actually seen that
    picture before but that was before I noticed asymmetric Ns.)</cite> -- obviously
    this is subtle enough to go unnoticed unless one starts measuring or reconstructing
    it.\r\n\r\n<cite>... in the original metal [of Blair] the N had asymmetrical joins
    of this type; but the ITC revival does not retain that detail.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt
    looks like reinterpreting type for another medium encourages designers to make
    details more consistent. Which does not necessarily mean improving them.&nbsp;&nbsp;:)"
  created: '2008-10-06 10:41:16'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"To me, there is a very simple reason for different joins: raising the
    diagonal a bit and make it look more centered, just as one raises the bar of the
    H above the mathematical vertical center (where it would sit too low).\"</em>\r\n\r\nYeah,
    I've been thinking about that. Your rationale sounds totally sound and logical,
    but to be honest I don't *see* that. Does a symmetric N, to you, look like it's
    heavier at the bottom, or like the diagonal is too low?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/symmetric_N_6147.png]\r\nMaybe
    there's something wrong with my eyes, but to me that looks just fine (please try
    to ignore the excessive weight of the diagonal).\r\n\r\n-- \r\n<em>learning is
    inherently an act of humiliation.</em>"
  created: '2008-10-06 11:01:11'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Maybe there\u2019s something wrong with my eyes, but to me that looks just
    fine...\"\r\n\r\nThat's fine. My suspicion has always been that this asymmetry
    was a compromise between what looks best with the uppercase versus what looks
    best with the lowercase, the big thick baseline feature being slightly overwhelming
    to the l.c. stem beside which it will often be used. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-06 12:48:38'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>Does a symmetric N, to you, look like it\u2019s heavier at the bottom,
    or like the diagonal is too low?</cite>\r\n\r\nI hesitate to decide by staring
    at a single N.\r\nSome time ago I revised/redesigned the same kind of typeface,
    wondered about it too, tried the symmetric approach and found that the diagonal
    was too low and went back to the original approach.\r\nWhether it looks heavier
    at the bottom is a different story and depends on how you solve the bottom-right
    join. (Independent of the symmetric/asymmetric question.) Looking at the samples
    posted by Kent Lew above, in ITC Franklin there is a little ink trap preventing
    it to look too heavy. Another way is to make the diagonal slightly thinner towards
    the bottom. So it is not a binary either--or. There are some additional means
    of visual compensation.\r\n\r\nVery similar issue: Usually you learn that the
    u should be narrower than the n so they look equally wide. But a bunch of sanserifs
    don't really care -- and obviously nobody objects. So, the real question is, what
    is your approach to this typeface. If you prefer a more \"rational\" approach
    and apply this consequently, why not."
  created: '2008-10-06 13:49:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Karsten, great point about the height illusion!\r\n\r\nBut:\r\n> obviously
    nobody objects\r\n\r\nI think you agree that we're not really talking about conscious
    objection on the part of laymen; but do you think no type designer objects to
    the \"u\" and \"n\" being equally wide in a sans?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-06 15:23:01'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > Blair is really quite similar to this one! I am somewhat relieved
    it\u2019s Uppercase only ;-). </cite>\r\n\r\nThere was a lowercase added to the
    Blair capitals and released as Litho Gothic, ca. 1911. It shares some basic qualities
    with your sample, but is noticeably different in details. I don't think there
    is anything in digital based directly on Litho Gothic.\r\n\r\nThe dates are all
    concurrent, so I wouldn't be surprised if there might have been some cross-fertilization
    going on. But I couldn't say which direction the influence was moving.\r\n\r\n--
    K."
  created: '2008-10-06 15:39:56'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "David,\r\n\r\n<em>\"My suspicion has always been that this asymmetry was
    a compromise between what looks best with the uppercase versus what looks best
    with the lowercase, the big thick baseline feature being slightly overwhelming
    to the l.c. stem beside which it will often be used.\"</em>\r\n\r\nGreat point!
    I haven't thought of that yet. (Speaking of which, it still confuses me when lc
    is slighly lighter than Uc in the same font \u2013 it sort of looks wrong to me
    when the contrast gets too obvious \u2013, but we'll see how that works out in
    this one.)\r\nAnother good reason to start with the lowercase I guess. :-)\r\n\r\n--
    \r\n<em>learning is inherently an act of humiliation.</em>"
  created: '2008-10-06 15:45:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it still confuses me when lc is slighly lighter than Uc in the same font
    \r\n\r\nThink of it as the UC being darker, the rationale being that -especially
    in a titling font- you could set a fair amount of all-caps, in which case you
    want to speak a little louder. (I think it was David who brought up this insight,
    some years ago, on Typophile. IIRC it was in relation to a question by Dan Reynolds
    about some grots.) I agree that this throws off even color in mixed-case text
    (especially for German) but back then making/affording a Demi was more prohibitive
    than today, so they \"overloaded\" the functionality of single fonts. And that
    of course is a good example of the medium affecting the decisions, and an argument
    against revival literality (although keeping/making the caps darker does give
    a font a certain archaic/quixotic charm).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-06 16:44:10'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Guys,\r\nI have honestly never seen a forum that comes close to this one
    in terms of learning so much from a single thread. Doing a happy dance over here
    :-).\r\n\r\nHrant,\r\n<em>\"\u2026 And that of course is a good example of the
    medium affecting the decisions, and an argument against revival literality \u2026\"</em>\r\n\r\nAhh!
    This is highly interesting. I never thought about it that way before; I figured
    it must have something to do with the lowercase being more detailed and \"blacker\"
    due to (mostly) having more strokes per unit of space, so the UC was trying to
    match that by boldening its few strokes. Which is probably nonsense, because to
    follow that rationale, an s or an a would also be lighter than an i or l, which
    it probably isn't expect in some very very bold weights where space is a concern.\r\n\r\nWhat
    you say about German is obviously true, I guess that's also why these bolder majuscules
    irritate me to such a degree (I do read more German than English).\r\n\r\n\r\n--
    \r\n<em>learning is inherently an act of humiliation.</em>"
  created: '2008-10-06 16:55:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...confuses me when lc is slighly lighter than Uc in the same font\"\r\n\r\nNina,\r\nSome
    degree of weight increase in the uppercase is there to overcome the vaster stretches
    of counter space in caps. The color perception humans make compares and figuratively
    averages the amount of black ink color with the amount of white paper enclosed.
    Since the strokes of caps are much further apart, it gives the illusion the the
    caps would be lighter than the lowercase. To combat this, the cap strokes are
    made just a bit bolder as compensation. (This is sort of like overshoot in round
    letters.) The trick is to find out how much is enough weight increase to achieve
    a balance of color with lowercase without having caps that jump off the page.
    \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-10-06 17:05:36'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>I think you agree that we're not really talking about conscious objection
    on the part of laymen; but do you think no type designer objects to the \"u\"
    and \"n\" being equally wide in a sans?</cite>\r\n\r\nPart 1: definitely, only
    expert comments count; part 2: I fear so, cannot remember having heard any such
    objections in a long time, despite there being occasions."
  created: '2008-10-06 21:14:55'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Chris,\r\n\r\n<em>\"Some degree of weight increase in the uppercase is there
    to overcome the vaster stretches of counter space in caps.\"</em>\r\n\r\nLooks
    like we said about the same at about the same time :-). Except you said it a lot
    more elegantly. Counter space! And here I am talking about \"strokes per unit
    of space\". I guess I'd better get the lingo down. :-)\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n--
    \r\n<em>learning is inherently an act of humiliation.</em>"
  created: '2008-10-06 21:38:04'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I think Karsten's got the right idea about the asymmetry of the cap N. \r\n\r\nI
    noticed it as being a common feature among sans serifs very early on and assumed
    (or maybe read somewhere) that it was done for the same reason as the slightly-raised
    cross-bar, the smaller upper bowl, and other asymmetrical construction: to keep
    conceptually symmetrical forms looking symmetrical, and not top-heavy or upside
    down. It's one of those optical illusion things. \r\n\r\nIt's more subtle in the
    case of the N since it's a diagonal, so you can get away with not doing it, especially
    if the face is very geometric. (Sometimes you have no choice, if the corners of
    the N are pointed, for instance.)"
  created: '2008-10-06 22:02:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'On the weight of caps vs lower case, I think that is also partly an aesthetic
    decision. Because 95% of the text is going to be lower case, you can violate even
    color, and make a ''statement'' with the caps being a bit heavier than even color
    would call for, if you want to. '
  created: '2008-10-07 00:51:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nina,\r\nI am a slow typist and did not see your post above mine until now.
    You have the right idea whatever the terminology.\r\n\r\n\"because to follow that
    rationale, an s or an a would also be lighter than an i or l, which it probably
    isn\u2019t...\"\r\n\r\nActually, with very busy glyphs, this does happen. A double
    bowled \"a\" or \"g\" has so much going on that you often have to lighten some
    of the strokes so that they appear to be the same weight as other simpler glyphs.
    It is more in evidence in bolder weights as you thought.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-10-07 02:40:26'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Dezsaidwell: \"The trick is to find out how much is enough weight increase
    to achieve a balance of color with lowercase without having caps that jump off
    the page.\"\r\n...or screen. And, to do so perhaps over a range of sizes, resolutions
    and rendering types. And then, from a light face, like the one under discussion,
    to faces of greater weight. \r\n\r\nHrant:\"... Maybe compared to witch doctors
    [Type designers are a pretty down to earth bunch].\"\r\nI happen to have some
    metal type that once belonged to you, \r\nso I'd be careful, 'cause it can get
    real hot and then I can stick pins in it. \r\n\r\n\"...keeping/making the caps
    darker does give a font a certain archaic/quixotic charm\"\r\nFor the most part
    I agree. But, there are cases where one sees that the old guys got it exactly
    right, even for modern times. \r\n\r\nIn general, when the huge x-height, met
    the one-size-fits-all design of modern outlines, and then met the same-same-same
    of the laser printers they were being proofed on, among native-speaking german
    language group type designers, the modern concept of invisible to non-existent
    u.&l.c. difference took root as a compromise in a world where good titling faces,
    often in the same family, are practically free, and much better adapted to composition
    of all caps than any face made for mixed composition. True or False?\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-07 15:15:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I like Mark's assessment, that it's similar to the crossbar of the H being
    slightly above centre.\r\n\r\nAs to why this is pleasing, perhaps, as with entasis,
    it's because it gives a sense of grandeur to the form."
  created: '2008-10-07 16:35:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "David, ouch!  :-)\r\n\r\nThere's one other big functional factor in determining
    whether/how_much caps should be darker than the lc: if the font is for one-time
    immersive reading (like a steamy novel) then you want more even color, while if
    it's a reference work (like a history textbook) where you need to frequently go
    back and scan for proper names* in a text then you want the caps to stand out.
    On the other hand, this particular design being a rather mannered sans, it probably
    won't be used much for either! So I'd say it becomes mostly an aesthetic decision.
    But anyway, practically speaking, first decide if you're going literal or interpretive.\r\n\r\n*
    And this extends to the prominence of numerals, for dates.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-07 17:01:50'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Nina,\r\n\r\nyou've gotten some good feedback no doubt due to your own thoughtful
    and considered questions. Welcome. \r\n\r\nThe difference in cap/lc weight is
    mostly optical. Chris is right that they can look too light if not slightly bolder.
    Illusion! But suppose it is a text face for mostly German typesetting.... Or is
    it French, for stylish display in a magazine? Caps for text faces are typically
    spaced rather tightly, because they are used with lc. If you set all caps from
    such a face, they need some space. Now there is a \"cap spacing\" feature in some
    OT fonts which fixes this automatically when lines are styled as all caps. It's
    also true that lowercase stems might vary in weight depending on how the typeface
    is used. Bold weights of early metal sans faces had outrageous amounts of this
    visual adjustment, and it was necessary to keep them from closing up with ink
    and looking blotchy. Whitney's heavier weights have some of this inconsistency
    built into them, and it's intentional. \r\n\r\nType design is almost like cinema;
    it requires a series of tricks, illusions, inconsistencies, flat out continuity
    flaws and fakery to appear true. The more one tries to adhere to rules, the more
    frustration. Diagonals are very tricky; sometimes their weight only looks right
    slightly thinner than verticals, sometimes diagonals without tapers look \"wrong\",
    and I'm sure you've already noticed that many X and x shapes depend on non-continuous
    cross strokes to look right. \r\n\r\nThere are various factors at play in deciding
    about how to treat this N feature. It's difficult, and there are various tricks
    available, which depend on your priorities. If even color is most important, traps
    will help a lot. If a rigidly consistent stroke width is important (suppose this
    was a design for a monument-engraving machine), then engineering joins with sharp
    terminals might be best, and traps might not be an option. If stylishness is more
    important, entirely different decisions can take precedence. \r\n\r\nAnd then
    the next typeface will give you entirely different things to think about.  ;)"
  created: '2008-10-08 19:08:34'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thanks again for the wonderful welcome. Sorry I didn't reply earlier, in
    fact I was away for a couple of days, went to the library of the Gutenberg Museum
    im Mainz to scan the original font sample. The next night, I dreamed about the
    B, K, and R. And now I'm battling 350MB TIFFs. :)\r\n\r\nHrant, your latest post
    in this thread had me a bit baffled. I've always assumed that type design is just
    about the most complexly detailed thing one can possibly attempt to do in the
    graphic field, but I've never thought remotely <em>that</em> far \u2013 choosing,
    or even making!, typefaces with a different contrast between caps and minuscules
    for different types of text. Wow. It makes a huge lot of sense, though, now that
    I think about it. \r\n\r\nI'm not scared, though. Just trying to get used to the
    thought that this typeface is going to serve as a practicing field & the provider
    of a steep learning curve for me rather than the ultimate digitization of this
    font. I still hope I'll get a result that is usable, and will be very happy to
    show it again here once I've got a reasonable character set together to judge
    the shapes in context.\r\n\r\nCarl,\r\nI'm guessing I'm mostly aiming at the German
    language market (haha). Funny you mention \"stylish magazines\"; the first time
    I saw the light weight Industria, my inner eye immediately set it as a magazine
    title, large, light, dark violet (?), partly overlaying a picture with light colours.
    I'm not a fan, or even a reader, of fashion magazines, but I can picture this
    font in one.\r\n\r\nThe cinema metaphor is just great. I actually worked in video
    production for a bit and do absolutely see the parallels. Also how you spend endless
    hours on tiny details on the individual snippets, & in the end it all comes together
    and looks like a \"finished whole\" (well, ideally).\r\n\r\nThe thing about adhering
    to rules and how it doesn't work, I find that to be maybe the most difficult feature
    of type design to explain to outsiders. I tried to convince my aunt (who asked
    about the project) why optical correction is what counts, & not mathematical correctness.
    I think she had serious doubts about my ideas (she's a mathematician). If I didn't
    already have more than enough work on my hands, I'd make a little font for her
    where nothing is optically corrected (the O being a circle, the bar of the H in
    the mathematical center etc.) \u2013 has anyone ever done this, just for fun,
    just to see how it <em>doesn't</em> work?\r\n\r\nAnd regarding the N, um, what
    I can say for sure is I'd love to be able to do it without traps, at least without
    them actually being discernible. Firstly because in general, I hate the look of
    them more often than not and find they quickly distract too much attention from
    the letterform itself (I'm still visually scarred by seeing this huge poster with
    Bell Gothic with about a meter of cap height); and secondly because I think this
    should have a future as a titling font too. Maybe, if it ends up not working without
    traps in small sizes, I'd consider doing optical sizes.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n--
    \r\n<em>learning is inherently an act of humiliation.</em>"
  created: '2008-10-11 20:38:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I would indeed call type design a Black Art. Except it's not Art.\r\n\r\n>
    I still hope I\u2019ll get a result that is usable\r\n\r\nI think the consensus
    is that you're on the right track! One thing to keep in mind here is something
    rather harsh that I've come to realize over time: to arrive at something <em>usable</em>,
    one must consciously NOT put <em>everything</em> one knows into a single font,
    as tempting as that might be. Unless your talent is one-in-a-million, trying to
    make a font some sort of \"ultimate\" always ends in tears.\r\n\r\n> has anyone
    ever done this, just for fun, just to see how it doesn\u2019t work?\r\n\r\nYes,
    I have a sample of something like that from a design book, where the author showed
    a before/after of optical correction. I'll try to find it for you.\r\n\r\n> this
    should have a future as a titling font too.\r\n\r\nNote that a single font is
    really only suitable for a narrow range of sizes, so a font for text* cannot be
    used well very large (although some designers disagree). In effect, a text font
    has to have a certain ugliness to do its job. Scary, I know. <em>Be</em> afraid,
    be <em>very</em> afraid.  :->\r\n\r\n* In this case very short text however.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-11 21:27:42'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite>where the author showed a before/after of optical correction.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis
    one? <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/typeoff/2124117583/\">Karl-Heinz Lange:
    <em>Schrift: schreiben/zeichnen/malen/konstruieren/schneiden. Praktische Anleitung</em></a>.
    From [[Dan Reynolds|Dan]]\u2019s Flickr stream."
  created: '2008-10-11 21:58:53'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"I think the consensus is that you\u2019re on the right track!\"</em>\r\n:-)
    That's cool, especially considering I haven't actually done so much yet (except
    for a lot of thinking).\r\n\r\n<em>\"to arrive at something usable, one must consciously
    NOT put everything one knows into a single font, as tempting as that might be.
    Unless your talent is one-in-a-million, trying to make a font some sort of \u201Cultimate\u201D
    always ends in tears.\"</em>\r\nOK, let me see if I understand this right. Do
    you mean the danger lies in trying to make an \"ultimate\" font that would work
    for any size, any situation, any context, any purpose? I think I've understood
    that a font needs to be defined for a more or less narrowly defined purpose (maybe
    unless it's Helvetica ;-) ). \r\nOr more like the danger of constantly being undecided
    in terms of what formal decisions to make, & then trying to cram it all in? (That
    reminds me of how my mother said to me once, \"when you're preparing a meal, there
    invariably will be a moment where you definitely need to define whether you're
    cooking chicken or chocolate cream.\")\r\n\r\nWould be cool if you found that
    example of the non optically corrected font. I'd love to show it to my aunt, &
    see if she gets the difference.\r\n\r\n<em>\"Note that a single font is really
    only suitable for a narrow range of sizes, so a font for text* cannot be used
    well very large [...] \r\n* In this case very short text however.\"</em>\r\n\r\nYou
    know, I'm wondering with this one. I always thought of it as a titling and display
    font, certainly not a text font. On the other hand, it struck me when looking
    at the old samples that it's really nicely legible even in very small sizes, as
    long as the text isn't longer than maybe four or five lines. I wonder whether
    these two uses will be possible to reconcile (or more like, whether I'll be able
    to do that).\r\nFWIW, it was originally advertised as a \"Reklame-Grotesk\" and
    used in advertisements in newspapers, which include both catchy / decorative headlines
    and tiny text for addresses, notes, & such.\r\n\r\n-- \r\n<em>learning is inherently
    an act of humiliation.</em>"
  created: '2008-10-11 22:19:48'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Oh, Florian, thank you! Very neat. It also hurts my eyes. :)\r\n\r\n-- \r\n<em>learning
    is inherently an act of humiliation.</em>"
  created: '2008-10-11 22:21:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Florian, that's a nice one. The one I have is page 51 (which has a transparent
    overlay) of a book by Ballinger. Here's a half-size, flattened version of the
    2-layer Photoshop file I once made:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ballinger51ab_5033.gif]\r\n\r\n>
    Do you mean the danger lies in trying to make an \u201Cultimate\u201D font\r\n>
    that would work for any size, any situation, any context, any purpose?\r\n\r\nThat
    too, but there I was talking about resisting the urge to use all of one's \"tricks\"
    in a single design. NOT doing so might seem like short-changing your design, but
    my belief is that in practice -maybe because type design is so convoluted- it
    tends to backfire.\r\n\r\n> I always thought of it as a titling and display font\r\n\r\nWell,
    the lines are never very clear, but to me this looks like it can be used for a
    few lines at a time, maybe more if you make a darker version with a smaller x-height.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-11 22:28:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The book is: \"Lettering art in modern use\", R Ballinger. But there's more
    than one edition, and some (like the \"student edition\"*) might not have the
    nice transparent overlay.\r\n\r\n* What was that trilingual, full-color typography
    book that got a severely neutered student edition? That was sad. It was some famous
    German or Swiss guy - I always forget his name for some reason.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-11 22:42:55'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Oh nice one. Thanks a lot!\r\n\r\nI think I am understanding what you are
    warning against, albeit only in an abstract form so far. Do remind me in case
    I end up making this mistake, yeah?\r\nIt's actually kind of a reassuring thought
    to not <em>have</em> to think of \"all\" the possible options. I like having a
    somewhat limited freedom in design, or at least the thought that I don't need
    to try out all 134093284 options in all possible combinations. ;-)\r\n\r\n-- \r\n<em>learning
    is inherently an act of humiliation.</em>"
  created: '2008-10-11 22:45:53'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Little P.S.: \r\nI have just been alerted that as of yesterday, a digital
    version of Industria is available at MyFonts under the name of <a href=\"http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/redrooster/ronsard-crystal/\">Ronsard
    Crystal</a> (Ronsard was the name for Industria used in France).\r\nAm I glad
    I ended up not just digitizing it\u2026!\r\n\r\nUnfortunately, Ronsard's \"N\"
    is a cop-out of sorts &ndash; save for the Extra Bold, which retains the original
    asymmetry."
  created: '2009-04-02 11:46:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Since Ronsard Crystal was just released, I have to suspect that this thread
    of yours was what brought Industria to Red Rooster's attention... Six months sounds
    about right.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-02 14:44:15'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "You know, I was wondering about that... \r\nMakes you worry about posting
    stuff on Typophile at all. :-\\"
  created: '2009-04-02 14:51:59'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "One more similar font, FWIW.\r\n\r\nZeppelin 41\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ZEPP_4184.png]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/N_4695.png]"
  created: '2009-04-02 15:12:30'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Yep, Zeppelin was mentioned before as being very similar:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/50670
    (24 Oct 2008)\r\n\r\nHowever Ronsard is as much the same as it gets; I must assume
    they worked from the same base material, even though there are some changes (like
    longer extenders &ndash; they botched that beautiful \"g\" &ndash; or those horizontals
    they inserted in joins on the likes of \"N\" and \"A\", except in the Extra Bold),
    and some strangeness (like them referring to it as a 1950s design, when the original
    Industria was designed in 1910/1913 [which I think also shows]; I don't know when
    the design was initially sold in France under the name \"Ronsard\", though)."
  created: '2009-04-02 15:28:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Certainly, if you're planning a literal revival, don't spill the beans here,
    or anywhere! Fortunately -in more ways than one- you seem to be above making such
    fonts.\r\n\r\nBTW, there was once an attempt at an \"exclusive\" sub-forum on
    Typophile that was going to be by invitation only; presumably that would reduce
    unethical behavior while encouraging people to share more freely and perhaps be
    [even] more candid as well.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-02 16:36:11'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Oh, interesting. What became of it?
  created: '2009-04-02 16:51:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It was over six years ago, so it's a bit hazy, but IIRC it was during a membership
    drive with three tiers, and the top two tiers had a $4 option of getting into
    that \"club\" during a \"sunrise\" period. I went for it. Probably because I didn't
    think I could get unanimous approval (that was a condition) of the existing club
    membership in the future. :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-02 17:07:01'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Heh. So, I assume it died again? Or is it still here, secretly? ;-)\r\n\r\nI
    must say I'm not unattracted by the idea. The German forum (typografie.info) has
    a couple of 'hidden'/'private' forums, but those are unconnected to paid membership
    &ndash; you can only get in by being invited/approved. \r\nIt can be nice to have
    an optional/additional place where not the entire 'net is watching the conversation."
  created: '2009-04-02 17:19:33'
date: '2008-10-04 19:47:47'
title: '"Asymmetrical" joins on the N?'

---
