---
author:
  name: _Palatine_
  picture: 115977
body: "I've decided to learn DTP. Although I don't absolutely *need* it in my work
  life at the moment, I'm quite sure that having DTP skills can't hurt in any field.
  I don't mind the financial outlay, but if I can save some money, all the better.
  \r\n\r\nWe have InDesign CS 3 (or now 4?) to choose from and Quark 8 (which has
  turned out to be pretty good according to general opinion.)\r\n\r\nLong ago I learned
  PageMaker, and even before that (as a kid) I actually used GeoPublish on the Commodore64!\r\n\r\nToday
  I'm the happy owner of quite a few wonderful licensed fonts, and I'm especially
  happy with Farnham, Dolly (paired with Auto, of course), and Feijoa. These deserve
  all the respect they can get, so I'm particularly interested in excellent OT font
  handling. In place of the tragedy that is MS Word (with respect to typography specifically,
  no offense) I have been using Mellel, which is a breath of fresh air but still not
  as competent with OT handling as a DTP app would be. \r\n\r\nI understand that InDesign
  is the more fashionable choice these days, and although I wouldn't mind a copy of
  Photoshop, I really don't need the rest of the apps that come with the Creative
  Suite. While Quark seems to be more relevant than in the past few years and has
  been dubbed the \"InDesign killer\" recently, I'd like to use something that is
  and will remain and industry standard. I might as well  make the most of my experience.
  Perhaps Quark is a real contender again . . . \r\n\r\nI use a Mac running OS X Leopard.
  RAM and speed is not an issue.  \r\n\r\nI'd appreciate any insight and suggestions.\r\n\r\nCheers,
  \r\n\r\nChristian."
comments:
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Considering your first sentence, I think you might want to cut out some of
    the design stuff to put equal time into prepress\u2014to design something that
    gets approved by the client and it prints the way the client approved.\r\nThe
    first book I thought of : <em><a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/gp/reader/0201353946/ref=sib_dp_pt\">The
    Non-Designer's Scan and Print Book</a></em>.\r\nMy experience, I have been teaching
    DTP last two years and I taught InDesign basics.\r\nI remember listening to Gavin
    Drake e Scott Wieseler at Typotechnica 2005 but didn't get much out of it, anyway
    that was for Quark version 7.\r\nHappy choice."
  created: '2008-10-09 07:29:41'
- author:
    name: TheMark
    picture: 109832
  body: "Hey Christian\r\n\r\nWorking with DTP since 1992, starting up with pagemaker,
    onto Quark and now Indesign, I really don't see a choice for you. I know all the
    buzz about Quark 8 being the \"Indesign killer\" but the facts are that Indesign
    was the Quark killer. Besides my own studio I often get pulled in on freelance
    jobs in the advertising industry in Europe and It's been years since I've even
    seen people work with Quark. Is it coming back, bigger and better? No doubt, but
    will Indesign stay on top in this race, no doubt either. People have changed to
    Indesign now - this took a while - and I don't think they will go back! So if
    you are looking for the industry standard, I would in a heartbeat choose Indesign.
    Have you seen the new CS4? It's amazing. Some of the places that Quark is better
    now is newspaper production, but that is about it. In my opinion anyway!\r\n\r\nIf
    you have some experience with pagemaker, Indesign will be the natural next step.
    And Don't even get me started on prices and level of service.\r\n\r\nI feel though
    that you are leaning against a Quark solution and don't let me scare you of. I
    would choose Indesign, but you might be just as happy with Quark 8.\r\n\r\nGood
    luck to you Christian\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-09 14:36:23'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "There is a tremendous installed base of Quark users and many new ID users.
    I prefer ID but have to have both, since I receive files created in all the graphics
    programs. I basically have Quark to open layouts and check the conversion to ID.\r\n\r\nMost
    of the layouts I receive from ad agencies still use Quark.\r\n\r\npbc\r\n\r\nAll
    ideas, theories and statements are subject to change without notice."
  created: '2008-10-09 17:25:01'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "Christian: \r\n\r\nYou might want to wade through this discussion:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/42202\r\n\r\nI
    find Paul Cutler's ad agency comment interesting. In the discussion referenced
    above, Patty points out that New York publishing was still using primarily Quark
    at the time of her first post to the thread. I still use Quark for academic and
    trade books. But I guess I had assumed that ad agencies had mostly gone to ID.
    For my needs [black type, no jackets], Quark is just fine, and I wait for eight.
    But ID does seem to be the better tool for a lot of ad work.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2008-10-09 18:23:00'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "Thanks for the replies, everyone.\r\n\r\nBy all means, keep 'em coming. I'm
    enjoying this discussion. I'm not really leaning toward any camp. Maybe I'm impressed
    with Quark because one is more easily impressed by an underdog. The one that tries
    hardest to please might have given a bit more loving to interface, capabilities,
    etc., this time around at least. But not knowing either InDesign or Quark intimately
    means I can't render any informed opinions about either product. \r\n\r\nBest
    thing to do would be to download the trials and start experimenting. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-09 22:27:27'
- author:
    name: agostini
    picture: 111280
  body: "I started of with Quark, loved it... but because of license costs we changed
    to\r\nInDesign...love it (smile). As you mentioned before you want software\r\nwhich
    will stay industry standard. There is just one choice: InDesign.\r\nAdobe has
    so many leading products (as in Photoshop, Illustrator),\r\nit will be impossible
    InDesign not being industry standard in future.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-09 23:08:17'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Has CS4 got kerning pairs, is Quark 8 as good at creating tables as CS3?\r\n\r\nI
    use both CS3 InDesign and Quark 6.5, there are good and bad points to both, I
    prefer Quark out of habit and for certain features. I sometimes feel InDesign
    is trying to nanny me too much.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2008-10-10 17:53:17'
- author:
    name: TheMark
    picture: 109832
  body: "This is getting very interesting. Paul you said\r\n\r\n\"Most of the layouts
    I receive from ad agencies still use Quark.\"\r\n\r\nComing from Europe, I would
    like to know if Quark is still standard in the American advertising industry?
    I have no experience working with american ad agencies and is somewhat surprised
    really, for it's been year since I had to open my Quark. (Yes I still have it
    installed - old love you know)\r\n\r\nOh and Paletine... please let us know what
    you choose \r\n\r\nMark, Copenhagen Denmark"
  created: '2008-10-10 18:15:16'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "It's funny to hear that people consider Quark \"the underdog\". Adobe launched
    InDesign in the time of the absolute dominance of Quark, and it was InDesign that
    was considered \"the underdog\" \u2014 but InDesign conquered the market quickly.
    The first versions were too slow because the computers were not powerful enough,
    but these days the performance is not an issue anymore. The typography in InDesign
    is superior, the native integration of Adobe's native file formats (PDF, Photoshop
    PSD, Illustrator AI, EPS) is also a plus for InDesign. \r\n\r\nAnd if you learned
    PageMaker before (as I did), you will find InDesign a bit easier to use than Quark,
    as it's closer in the concept (many people who originally created PageMaker later
    went to develop InDesign). \r\n\r\nThese days, it seems that InDesign is leading
    the way and Quark tries to follow. \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-10 19:14:17'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "The good old days (or even before them) . . . \r\n\r\nhttp://www.neef-online.de/home/c64/layout.jpg\r\n\r\nAnd
    the OS it ran on . . .\r\n\r\nhttp://media.arstechnica.com/images/gui/18-geos.gif\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-10 19:24:23'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: ">Coming from Europe, I would like to know if Quark is still standard in the
    American advertising industry?\r\n\r\nMost of the layouts I get (and all of them
    from NYC that I can remember) are Quark. Most of the designers I know prefer ID
    so it's a conundrum. The installed base of Quark is so strong that companies are
    hesitant to change.\r\n\r\nBasically you have to know and have both to do what
    I do, but I use Quark mainly to check the competency of conversions to ID.\r\n\r\nI
    never finish the job in Quark or generate final PDFs from it. I just don't really
    like it - no accounting for taste.\r\n\r\nI would assume considering the price
    and Adobe's dominance in setting standards for printing that ID will eventually
    leave Quark behind, but it certainly hasn't happened yet.\r\n\r\npbc\r\n\r\nAll
    ideas, theories and statements are subject to change without notice."
  created: '2008-10-10 19:42:39'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Christian, Typophile is not the place to go to if you want objective opinions
    about Quark v InDesign. Typophile has a preponderance of users who are developing
    or very interested in using the still-buggy and badly-supported OpenType format.
    InDesign won these pioneering and long suffering users' hearts by supporting OpenType
    long before Quark did. (At that time, in the rest of the world, nobody knew or
    cared what OT was. That is still largely true. But not here on Typophile!) \r\n\r\nNow
    let's look at a couple of myths:\r\n\r\n>The typography in InDesign is superior\r\n\r\nTell
    me Adam, what about InDesign typography is superior? \r\n\r\nIs it the 'optical
    kerning' that totally destroys every well-constructed font that passes through
    it by wantonly changing the interletter spacing of every letter combination except
    OO?\r\n\r\nIs it the cynical 'optical justification' feature that hurls hyphens,
    dashes and quotation marks out of the margin like orphans into the storm? \r\n\r\nIs
    it the poorly implemented, uncustomizable paragraph composer which unintelligently
    impairs lines at the expense of paragraphs? \r\n\r\nIs it the fact that InDesign
    won't support OT features created by your company's own Fontlab that are fluently
    supported by Quark 8? \r\n\r\n>the native integration of Adobe\u2019s native file
    formats (PDF, Photoshop PSD, Illustrator AI, EPS) is also a plus for InDesign.\r\n\r\nWho
    was first with advanced Photoshop PSD support? Quark, or Adobe? Paradoxically,
    it was Quark, three years ago.\r\n\r\nQuark 6.5 let you view, show and hide both
    channels and layers, and blend opacity and transparency modes; and map the psd's
    alpha and spot channels to inks within the\r\nQuarkXPress Project (good for special
    processes such as varnishes or bump plates), enable/disable Adjustment\r\nLayers
    or change their effect by editing their opacity,\r\nor blend mode enable/disable
    Layer Masks. By contrast,\r\nInDesign didn't then offer any layer or channel con-\r\ntrol
    at all. \r\n\r\nIn areas that are important to ad-based workflow, Quark's transparency
    features are vastly more fluent, and its image-editing features now do a substantial
    proportion of what you would need Photoshop or Illustrator for. \r\n\r\nAs for
    customer support, Quark earned a mind-boggling amount of resentment for its support
    policies about a decade ago, but in recent years, the weight of the evidence seems
    to be that Quark's support has consistently been superior to and cheaper than
    Adobe's. These things ebb and flow. Adobe for years had better tech support; no
    doubt it will again, when it perceives there is a competitive advantage that would
    be worth the investment. But that time isn't now. \r\n\r\nWhat I object to most
    with InDesign is the assertion of 'fine typography' strengths. These are based
    on features like optical kerning and optical alignment that on close inspection
    turned out to be valueless. However, the issues are subtle and it took most users
    several years to realize that they actually weren't working. That might have been
    acceptable in a 1.0 or 2.0 product. But at 5.0 or 6.0? It simply shows Adobe's
    cynicism. Hurl the features out there. Don't worry about what they actually do.
    \r\n\r\nI'm sure I'll be flamed for making these remarks here, but not by those
    weary InDesign users who have tried to get optical kerning and optical justification
    to work. "
  created: '2008-10-12 00:18:53'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "\"Is it the fact that InDesign won\u2019t support OT features created by
    your company\u2019s own Fontlab that are fluently supported by Quark 8?\"\r\n\r\nWhich
    specific features are those, Bill?"
  created: '2008-10-12 01:15:46'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Re OT features supported by Quark 8 but not by InDesign, simply literally
    follow the instructions in the Fontlab manual to create f-ligatures, generate,
    and the features will work in Quark but not InDesign. \r\n\r\nThis is not OT design
    at a high level, but it is what happens when you RTFM and follow the instructions.
    This may be one of those elsewhere-documented cases where the feature works in
    CS2 but not in CS3.\r\n\r\nI guess it didn't really matter when InDesign was the
    only program that supported OT. Even early on, though, there were complaints about
    inconsistent OT support between Indy, Illustrator, and Photoshop.\r\n\r\nBut now
    we have three major programs - - InDesign, Quark, Word -- which all support OT
    completely differently. (Leaving aside for the moment the rest of CS and the fact
    that IndyCS2 supports OT differently than IndyCS3)\r\n\r\nThe answer is common
    code, consistent across platforms and applications. But how can we try to sell
    Adobe on that when Adobe has spent six or seven years building CS into a virtually
    OS-immune fortress with proprietary rasterization solutions -- perhaps wisely,
    perhaps not? And how can we sell Microsoft on that when Microsoft isn't interested
    in supporting any of the advanced OT typography features -- yet? Yet, these are
    the two companies, with their completely different agendas, that co-operated to
    create OT in the first place.\r\n\r\nThomas, I am perfectly willing to admit that
    I could have been wrong, and that we would all be miserable had we let Apple handle
    advanced typography for both Windows and Mac as almost happened in the mid-90s.
    Maybe it truly would not have worked out. Maybe it would be much worse than what
    we have. (Like maybe Apple would have ditched GX in 1998, leaving it on Windows,
    while going its own completely independent way. No, that doesn't seem likely.
    GX would have tied the two companies together inextricably.)\r\n\r\nBut given
    OT's current complexity, and the inevitable fact that it will increase in complexity
    with time, and given Microsoft's intractable opposition -- thus far -- to supporting
    advanced typography features in OT fonts, I think the only rational way forward
    is to adopt a common code/common feature model as base theology for OT and evangelize
    it -- or make it attractive enough that everyone will adopt it for selfish reasons.
    \r\n\r\nOtherwise, each succeeding release of Quark and InDesign will support
    OT differently, each doing some things better, some things worse. And users will
    be confused and alarmed. And other app developers will steer clear.\r\n\r\nThe
    goal for OpenType should be that all OT fonts work all the time, all the same,
    everywhere. And I'm reasonably sure you share that belief. But how to make it
    happen?\r\n\r\nAnd shouldn't this be another thread? "
  created: '2008-10-12 02:39:32'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I know type has multiple uses nowadays. Placing pixels on a monitor. Printing
    out a newsletter on an laser printer. All I can really speak to is printing, where
    the purpose of setting type is to take an author's words and a designer's layouts
    to enable the printer to make a plate. What's *best* boils down to \"how good
    is the plate?\" Not much else matters.\r\n\r\nPerhaps a couple of stories will
    show the importance of the Quark versus InDesign question, at least, when the
    use of a printing press is the end result of setting type.\r\n\r\n1. I made a
    lot of money in the 1990s and early 2000s because I didn't use Quark or PageMaker.
    When someone needed to set, say, vowels with macrons, or set a language like Navajo,
    Kiowa, transliterated Arabic, Chinese, Devanagari, etc. etc. etc., Quark and PageMaker
    users floundered about. Best they could do was make up fonts with the needed characters
    mis-named. We used TeX. We could write any encoding vector we wanted. The names
    of the characters in the typeset file were correct. You could search for them
    as unique strings. (things were name-based in those days).\r\n\r\nThe first and
    most important job of the typesetter is getting all the words spelled correctly.
    If you cannot set the needed character, you cannot spell the word correctly. The
    easier it is to set the right character, the better off you are; the easier you
    can do searches in revised proof, the better off you are.\r\n\r\nSo the biggest
    and best *feature* of OpenType is that it allowed Unicode to be brought to the
    PostScript Type 1 font. The rest is just a matter of comfort food.\r\n\r\n2. Quark
    (or PageMaker & InDesign) didn't & still don't allow the control *for setting
    type* that TeX did. We use to quip to new comps that with TeX, the good news was
    you could make up any typesetting routine you wanted; the bad news was you had
    to. (Color management is a different matter.)\r\n\r\nAll the built-in features
    of a program usually get in the way of other features. You could argue that what
    killed PageMaker (the first serious DT layout program) was it had been patched
    so many times with new features that it was buggy, & impossible for a programmer
    to go back & straighten things out. This will likely happen to both Quark & InDesign
    down the road.\r\n\r\n\"Ease of use\" or \"built-in features\" are usually a two-edged
    sword.\r\n\r\n* * *\r\n\r\nI was on a panel at a AAUP Production Managers meeting
    in 1996. A Quark user on the panel said that the most important issue with Quark
    was it allowed you to archive all your work in that format. I asked what he'd
    used for an archival format before. \"Compugraphic\" he said.\r\n\r\n* * *\r\n\r\nAs
    was said earlier in this thread, if you use the applications program that most
    of the other people in your particular area use, you probably haven't made a mistake.
    You'll have no advantage over them in setting type, but unless you are seeking
    an advantage setting type -- as opposed to, say design -- So what?"
  created: '2008-10-12 15:38:44'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "\"GX would have tied the two companies together inextricably.\"\r\n\r\nBill\r\n\r\nLike
    Apple's development of TrueType for Microsoft tied them together inextricably?
    I don't think so. As I recall only one third party software application supported
    Apple's QuickDraw GX (Adobe certainly did not, though I do know they were developing
    fonts for it, just in case; saw the work during a visit). \r\n\r\nThus far, OpenType
    doesn't come near the possibilities of GX, though we have heard about OT's possibilities
    for some many years now. Beyond expanded character sets and cross-platform capability
    though, what exactly does OT offer that even comes close to GX? Serious question.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2008-10-13 04:59:12'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> Tell me Adam, what about InDesign typography is superior? \r\n\r\nThe quality
    of composition in pretty much any European language other than English delivered
    by InDesign CS3 greatly beats Quark 8 (English is only my third language so it
    does not interest me that much). \r\n\r\nWhether it's German, Polish, Czech, Russian
    or Greek, the results delivered by InDesign's paragraph composer are far superior
    and more pleasing than those made by Quark, which even in the international Passport
    version always produced poor hyphenation and justification, especially for languages
    outside of Western Europe. \r\n\r\nAnd yes, optical kerning may not be a good
    idea for the languages for which many Western fonts have been well-fit for (English,
    German, Dutch, perhaps French) but the vast majority of European languages (say
    Basque, Portuguese, Slovak, Czech, Swedish, Finnish, Latvian, Estonian, Hungarian
    etc.) may actually benefit from InDesign's optical kerning even in well-made fonts,
    because the default kerning in those fonts often only takes into account combinations
    that occur in a handful Western languages, sometimes only in English. \r\n\r\nIt
    seems to me that Quark's typographic composition engine is strongly specialized
    on one language out of world's hundreds of mainstream languages (so it's a kind
    of a one-trick pony), while InDesign's typographic engine is far more universal
    -- even though the regular \"international\" edition of InDesign performs well
    only with European alphabets, and for Japanese, Chinese, Arabic or Hebrew one
    needs a specialized edition. \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-03 19:50:40'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I really like optical kerning for many older fonts (especially the ones from
    Adobe) which seem to be kerned rather haphazardly. Mrs. Eaves is another one that
    comes to mind.\r\n\r\nNewer font designs seem to have more emphasis on kerning.\r\n\r\nIn
    any case it's nice to have a choice.\r\n\r\npbc\r\n\r\nAll ideas, theories and
    statements are subject to change without notice."
  created: '2008-11-03 20:23:35'
date: '2008-10-09 02:59:58'
title: 'New to DTP: InDesign (CS 3 or 4) or Quark 8?'

---
