---
author:
  name: Bites of Life
  picture: 114808
body: "Hello to everyone, \r\n\r\nI have to choose 4 different graphic design styles
  within the history of design. I feel like there are too many I'm interested on.
  And, what it results me more different is to choose 3 designers that represent those
  styles the most. \r\n\r\nAt the moment, I'm thinking of:\r\n\r\nBauhaus \r\n-El
  Lissitzky\r\n-Herbert Bayer\r\n-Josef Alberts\r\n\r\nSwiss Style\r\n-Josef M\xFCller-Brockmann\r\n-Paul
  Rand\r\n-Jan Tshichold\r\n\r\nDigital Age\r\n-Nevelle Brody\r\n-Richard Eckersley\r\n-Jonathan
  Barnbrook\r\n\r\nWhat do you think about it? It would be interesting to hear what
  are yor tastes like.\r\nThe fourth graphic design style still in process. I can't
  decide which one to choose. \r\nSome advice?\r\n\r\nMany Thanks, \r\nLaura"
comments:
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "El Lissitzky was a Russian Constructivist and Paul Rand may have admired
    the Swiss but was his own style. You might put Armin Hofmann and Emil Ruder in
    the Swiss group.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-10-14 01:01:45'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: Koch?
  created: '2008-10-14 02:29:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Also, design history regarding typography started well before the 20th Century.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-10-14 03:08:43'
- author:
    name: weinziet
    picture: 110727
  body: "Yeah, I was thinking that too. Your list is heavily modernism, consider something
    older, perhaps to contrast the styles you have listed. Like maybe the Vienna Secession,
    Rococo, or something like that.\r\nOne of my favorite books on the subject is
    Philip Meggs' \"History of Graphic Design\""
  created: '2008-10-14 04:09:10'
- author:
    name: lettergothic
  body: "Hi Laura,\r\n\r\nBauhaus: Hard to omit Moholy-Nagy. Profoundly important
    (along with El Lissitzky) in developing and shaping the Bauhaus into what it would
    become _and_ central to the introduction of German modernist design sensibilities
    to the United States in founding the New Bauhaus/School of Design/Institute of
    Design in Chicago.\r\n\r\nSwiss: Josef Muller-Brockman: absolutely!  Paul Rand:
    no (influenced by: yes; Jan Tschichold: no (New Typography).   Instead: Armin
    Hofmann & Emil Ruder\r\n\r\nDigital: This covers _a lot_ of ground. . . Neville
    Brody: absolutely! I would consider April Greiman, Kathy McCoy, Rudi Vanderlans/Emigre,
    Nancy Skolos and many others.\r\n\r\nChoice 4: Constructivism.  I don't see how
    you can leave it out of a top 4 influential syle group list. \r\nLook at: Rodchenko,
    El Lissitzky, Gustav Klutsis, Georgii and Vladimir Stenberg, etc.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-14 04:31:19'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I wouldn't put Richard Eckersley in \"the Digital Age.\"\r\n\r\nIf you are
    thinking of <cite>The Telephone Book</cite>, it was basically put together on
    the light table, from repro run off a typesetting machine & lots of work with
    a stat camera & darkroom time.\r\n\r\n* * *\r\n\r\nRichard used essentially four
    fonts from the mid 1980s until his death. Galliard when repro was used. Minion
    multiple masters, which let him get a little more condensed, a little heavier
    font. Once he figured out the numbers, he stayed with them for years. Trinite,
    because it had both the weight & condensed fit he wanted. The other one? ITC Baskerville,
    when Galliard, Minion & Trinite weren't right. ITC because the photocomp Monotype
    Baskerville was just too light.\r\n\r\n* * *\r\n\r\nIt isn't quite true, but it
    would be insightful to to say that Richard thought of the computer as a quick
    &  cheap source of press-on lettering.\r\n\r\nOf course, I'm biased; I think of
    Richard in a class by himself. But an unbiased evaluation would be that the dates
    of his life included the early digital age; his way of thinking and working did
    not.\r\n\r\nFWIW"
  created: '2008-10-14 13:42:39'
- author:
    name: Bites of Life
    picture: 114808
  body: "Thank you very much for your dedication to all, I'll answer you one by one
    \r\n\r\nChrisL,\r\n\r\nI wasn't really sure with El Lissitzky, I love his work
    so I'm considering to incorporate as my 4th choice -Constructivism and El Lissitzky
    will be leading the choice of the three designers representing that period. \r\n\r\nBecause
    my project is more focus on graphic design movements, I have a chart that shows
    graphic design from the Arts and Crafts movement, that is why I'm using modernist
    styles with their respective designers. \r\n\r\n\r\nWeinziet, \r\nThank you for
    your great consideration. I have to say that you've open few more doors in my
    brain and though I need to find the book you've suggested. I think I've seen it
    before. It is a great idea what you say, I know but I don't know if it would be
    as much graphics as type. I'm trying to mix the both togheter. Do you think that
    the ornaments would be the replacement of nowadays graphics?\r\n\r\n\r\nHi LetterGothic,\r\n\r\nDo
    you really think that I'd be enclosing El Lissitzky in the Bauhaus? or in the
    Constructivism. I believe that he was influenced by the Bauhaus but it was a Russian
    Constructivist typographer.\r\n\r\nI'm debating between Pop Art or Constructivism
    to complete the 4th Choice. \r\n\r\nI completely agree with all you say about
    Richard Eckersley. He used to experiment with type rather than designing types...admirable
    job though.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-14 17:51:07'
- author:
    name: lettergothic
  body: "Laura,\r\n\r\nEl Lissitzy _was_ a Russian Constructivist artist, designer,
    typographer and architect. However, when he was appointed a soviet cultural ambassador
    to Weimar, Germany, in the early 1920's, he began to design in Germany. His output
    of constructivist design in Germany profoundly influenced the direction of Bauhaus
    teaching and output (as did Moholy and van Doesburg) away from Itten's spiritualism
    and toward the original goal of uniting art and industry.\r\n\r\nIMHO, Constructivism
    was far, far more important in shaping graphic design, as we know it today, than
    was pop art."
  created: '2008-10-15 00:13:14'
- author:
    name: Bites of Life
    picture: 114808
  body: "Thank you Lettergothic, \r\nIt is really reassuring to hear your knowledge
    in the subject. I completely agre being Construcivism much more important in Graphic
    Design than Pop art. However, what do you think are the more significative differences
    between Bauhaus and Constructivism? "
  created: '2008-10-15 10:10:53'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Neville Brody did a lot of stuff by hand before getting his first Macintosh
    computer. Not everything he's done would be considered "digital".
  created: '2008-10-16 06:32:08'
- author:
    name: Bites of Life
    picture: 114808
  body: "Thanks Ricardo, \r\nIn what period would you consider him to be then?\r\nBest
    wishes\r\nLaura"
  created: '2008-10-16 11:10:20'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Laura, I was just trying to say that sometimes you can't divide things into
    clear-cut categories or periods. Sometimes there is a bit of overlap. \r\n\r\nAlso,
    \"Digital Age\" sounds like it's defined by a technology (computer-aided design)
    rather than by the ideas behind it (like the International or Swiss style, which
    has Modernist underpinnings)."
  created: '2008-10-16 14:13:17'
- author:
    name: Bites of Life
    picture: 114808
  body: "Absolutely, \r\n\r\nDigital Age sounds too extended, too confusing. There
    are many periods behind it and I'm having a bit of a problem to identify three
    designers that represent the Digital Age. I'm going to change it to something
    different. At the moment 'in this unknown group, maybe called Contemporary Design'
    I have Neville Brody and Jonathan Barnbrook and, was thinkin of David Carlson.\r\n "
  created: '2008-10-16 15:47:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I used to be interested in 20th century modernism, but came to realize that
    it played a very small part in graphic design as practised, and a disproportionately
    large part in design history.\r\n\r\nIMO, historicism was the most important movement
    of the 20th century, and three key typographic figures would be William Morris,
    Frederic Goudy, and Stanley Morison (a creative director more than designer).
    There are others, but the material about these is copious, and in English, so
    you can easily find what they did and had to say.\r\n\r\nHistoricism is not to
    be confused with traditionalism, which is doing things the way they've always
    been done.\r\nHistoricism was a radical movement which tapped into anti-industrialism,
    discovering and reviving centuries-old styles of design.\r\nDuring most of the
    20th century, popular media was dominated by work in the historicist style, and
    modernism was marginal.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/victrola_5762.jpg]\r\nThis
    ad is from 1920, bringing recorded music to the masses.\r\nTalking machines --
    how high-tech is that?\r\nAnd yet, typically, the ad is historicist, with a Bold
    version of a 15th century type for the headline, and Goudy's neo-renaissance old-style
    for the text. \r\n\r\nBarnbrook, Brody and Carson are revered in the design community,
    but are they representative of contemporary design?"
  created: '2008-10-16 21:40:48'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I think that your list might get more interesting if you picked less obvious
    choices for the designers and if the designers weren\u2019t all men. And I agree
    with Nick on both counts: there\u2019s more to design history than modernism,
    and the argument can be made that modernism sprung out of the historicism of the
    arts and crafts movement. Barnbrook, Brody, and Carson aren\u2019t really representative
    of digital or contemporary design, their really influential work would be better
    categorized as \u201CPostmodern\u201D. Poyner\u2019s book on postmodernism will
    be a big help for dealing with the 1980s and 1990s."
  created: '2008-10-16 22:22:20'
- author:
    name: lettergothic
  body: ">Thank you Lettergothic,\r\n>It is really reassuring to hear your knowledge
    in the subject. I completely agre being Construcivism much >more important in
    Graphic Design than Pop art. However, what do you think are the more significative
    >differences between Bauhaus and Constructivism?\r\n\r\nHi Laura,\r\n\r\nYour
    welcome!\r\n\r\nThat's a big order. Historical periods exist only because of the
    ability to look backwards and notice trends in style that grouped at a given time.
    Constructivism evolved over time and space and only becomes visible as a general
    manifestation of stylistic tropes when we view it from a distance. Not every \"constructivist\"
    designer's work exhibited all the same manifestations but all of them shared enough
    similar characteristics, at a given time, to be grouped under the general umbrella
    of constructivism. Every artist brought different sensibilities and experiences
    to the table. Piet Zwart and Paul Schuitema are usually acknowledged to have practiced
    a sort of Dutch Constructivism. Their work shared what we now recognize as constructivist
    hallmarks but they tended to use a DiStijl palette of red, yellow, blue and black.
    Same with the Bauhaus. Certain constructivist tendencies were incorporated into
    the style grouping that characterized Bauhaus work. Herbert Bayer's poster for
    Kandinsky's birthday is pretty constructivist looking (architectural, diagonals,
    red and black, etc. but his \"Bauhaus Dessau\" book cover not so much ( that said,
    the photograph of the balconies does have a Rodchenko feel to it). Just like every
    style group, the Bauhaus evolved and changed over its run. It ended up a very
    different place than it began. As different teachers came and went, they brought
    different things to the mix. The Bauhaus started out as a rather different place
    than the one that we now celebrate as being pivotal in the evolution of design
    as we now know it.\r\n\r\nThe Bauhaus set out to integrate art and industry and
    was basically apolitical (until Hannes Meyer took over). Constuctivism developed
    as an art form in support of the Communist revolution---different goals, different
    products.\r\n\r\nIt's more nuanced than it seems at a glance. Was this was helpful?\r\n\r\n
    \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2008-10-18 09:13:11'
- author:
    name: Arjun
    picture: 114584
  body: "Futurism?\r\n\r\nI'm surpised no one has mentioned this so far...\r\n\r\n\r\n--\r\narjun"
  created: '2008-10-18 11:33:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Constructivism evolved over time and space and only becomes visible as
    a general manifestation of stylistic tropes when we view it from a distance.</em>\r\n\r\nIf
    one looks at movements as just a visual style, then this kind of comment is easy
    to make, because it is self fulfilling.\r\nOne looks back, sifting for commonalities
    through the filters of one's own prejudices, and determines significance.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    when Rodchenko and Stepanova published the <em>Program of the First Working Group
    of Constructivists</em>* in 1921, they defined it, so it's quite different from
    historical movements which were identified after the fact.\r\n\r\nSo how does
    one judge what constitutes Constructivism?\r\nDoes it have to \"generally manifest
    stylistic tropes\" as David believes, or should it be, as per Rodchenko and Stepanova,
    \"the communistic expression of material structures\"?\r\n\r\n*It's in <em>Looking
    Closer 3: Classic Writings on Graphic Design</em>"
  created: '2008-10-18 16:28:31'
- author:
    name: Krebstar
    picture: 115207
  body: This may have been an obvious choice for a forth, but what about 'Grunge'?
  created: '2008-10-18 17:19:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "There is an interesting historical design movement that relates specifically
    to type design; legibility--i.e. making the physical process of reading the prime
    consideration in the design of a type.\r\n\r\nIt had some of the social idealism
    of early 20th century modernism.\r\nRather than have a distinct look, it expressed
    itself in many ways.\r\n\r\nOne sees the begining of it in Cheltenham, with its
    emphasis on the upper part of the lower case characters, because that is more
    important in reading (or at least, that's what its designers believed).\r\nCentury
    Schoolbook was a legibility face, as was Clearface -- both by Morris Benton for
    ATF.\r\nThen there was the Legibility Series of newspaper faces from Linotype.\r\nAll
    those in the early 20th century.\r\n\r\nIs that enough for a movement?\r\nWas
    it disctinctively American?\r\n\r\nWhat of designs where legibility was not the
    prime concern, but was an important consideration?\r\nPaul Renner for instance,
    in designing Futura, was well aware of how \"the sphere of appearances\" impinged
    on \"the sphere of mathematical concepts\".\r\n\r\nCan we now look back and identify
    work as belonging to a movement, even if that was not the author's stated or considered
    intention? Can we perhaps say that the surge of sans serif typography around 1930
    was not so much an expression of broad Modernism, but more specifically Functionalism,
    which in text type must surely constitute the belief that simple monoline forms
    are the most efficient and legible?\r\n\r\nGiven the variety of type design solutions
    to the brief of \"legibility\", is it enough to identify design movements purely
    on the basis of established visual clich\xE9? \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2008-10-18 17:22:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "What is the value in sorting out historic designers into movements? This
    is a very common academic exercise but so much time is spent in the sorting process
    but to what end? It is like an obsessive compulsive disorder sufferer who must
    sort things out in some kind of order just to scratch an itch but there is no
    real value in the accomplishment. Was Piet Swart a Constructivist, De Stijlist,
    Bauhausist, Modernist, or just an Artist designer? If we sort it all out and even
    agree on any particular \"ist\", does it really do anything to further our ability
    to achieve something of our own in our own time? Is there something more productive
    we can do in looking at historical figures than sorting them into pigeon holes?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-10-18 17:59:37'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>This is a very common academic exercise but so much time is spent in
    the sorting process but to what end?</cite>\r\n\r\nLBJ is reputed to have said
    something like \"everyone in the graveyard has an equal right to vote\" -- this
    in response to a complaint that the names on some stones were a trifle hard to
    read.\r\n\r\nIn the same vein, academics have a right to eat (but not cake)."
  created: '2008-10-18 18:19:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Pigeon-holing may be a necessary evil in developing an eye for identifying
    the different principles that can inform a design.\r\n\r\nIs it useful to know
    that Futura has classically proportioned capitals, with a geometrically constructed
    lower case modified to accomodate legibility concerns? \r\n\r\nHow would one know
    this without placing that understanding in historical terms?\r\n\r\nI guess a
    lot depends on the validity of using allusion as a design principle--i.e. combining
    elements that allude to the same historical era or movement, in order to get the
    fast track on harmonizing them.\r\n\r\nDoes it help you to see and design better,
    if you know historical context?"
  created: '2008-10-18 18:20:56'
- author:
    name: Bites of Life
    picture: 114808
  body: "Thank you to all of you. \r\nIt has been really interesting to read your
    comments. As well, I've made few notes in the history of design I keep to myself.
    \r\nBest Wishes"
  created: '2008-11-13 22:37:22'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Aw, come on and tell us how your school project turned out. That's the reason
    you started this thread, after all. :-)
  created: '2008-11-14 04:08:06'
- author:
    name: gerald
  body: "the value in classifying historical sub-groups or genres in any field of
    study is that it helps the compiler map out a sort of mental \"genealogy\" of
    movements, which leads to a broader understanding of history, ie who inspired
    what, what inspired who and generally how everything mixed together to lead us
    where we are today\r\n\r\nand to answer your question, i think it absolutely helps
    to know the history of the field you're working in. learning where everything
    came from helps me understand the reasons for all the changes that led to other
    movements. being able to see the evolution of a form of art is so helpful when
    trying to improve my skillset."
  created: '2008-11-14 05:35:47'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Chris and Nick: great comments!\r\nThank you\u2026 :=)\r\n\r\nP.S. Laura,
    if you're still at it, they are absolutely right about Jon Barnbrook and Brody.\r\nFor
    lack of better terms we should call their work \"post-modern\". Brody did his
    most amazing work while art-directing The Face, way before he started to use DTP."
  created: '2008-11-15 21:52:50'
- author:
    name: Bites of Life
    picture: 114808
  body: "Hi Ricardo, \r\n\r\nI'd like to show you what I've done so far. \r\nEverybody
    participating in the site has helped me a lot. \r\nIt is really grateful to share
    opinions with people7/ interested in interact to learn all together and, more
    importantly, to build our critical point of view.\r\n\r\nThis proyect is about
    'deck of poker cards' each suit represents a movement. At the moment have 3 suits
    designed out of 4. Swiss design, Constructivism and Grunge Design. I need to design
    a 21st Century suit, create it, so my ideas are 'vectorial age' (everything done
    with illustrator) or 'icon movement'...I'm still thinking about it. \r\n\r\nPlease
    see the attachments to see the suits I've designed.... \r\n\r\n\r\nGerald, \r\nI
    share your opinion about history of design.\r\nI'll be asking for help in a new
    topic soon. I'd love you to participate.\r\n\r\nPiccic, \r\nYes, I completely
    agree with you. I think that Brody, David Carson and Barnbrook broke with the
    rules of the Modernism. They are pure Postmodernists developed more recently as
    Grunge design. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Deck of Cards_Constructivism_Diamonds_Page_01_3463.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Deck
    of Cards_Constructivism_Diamonds_Page_09_4284.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Deck
    of Cards_Grunge_Spades_Page_02_4462.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Deck
    of Cards_Grunge_Spades_Page_13_6193.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Deck
    of cards_Swiss_Clubs_Page_01_4925.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Deck
    of cards_Swiss_Clubs_Page_13_4968.png\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-17 17:59:10'
- author:
    name: Bites of Life
    picture: 114808
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Deck of cards_Swiss_Clubs_Page_13_5236.png]'
  created: '2008-11-17 18:00:26'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Looks like a cool project, Laura! Thanks for sharing some of the images.
  created: '2008-11-18 04:46:54'
- author:
    name: Bites of Life
    picture: 114808
  body: "Thanks\r\nI'll show you my 4th suit when I get it done.\r\nI've hanged the
    questionary tittled Art Deco in the 21st Century, have a look at it. If you can
    would be great to get your opinion.\r\n\r\nMany Thanks, \r\nLaura"
  created: '2008-11-18 12:02:45'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "The idea is very interesting (using playing cards, to me looks like teaching
    and reflecting over typography and writing with people which have no knowledge
    on the subject, providing insights).\r\n\r\nI have to tell that I cringe when
    I read the term \"grunge design\". Its meaning is close to nothingness in my view.
    Call the process of breaking down and reprocessing, collaging, cutting and pasting
    something like \"deconstructivist\", \"post-structural\", or whatever, but not
    \"grunge design\". It's a meaningless and superficial term, even worse than provisional
    terms like \"post-something\"\u2026"
  created: '2008-11-18 19:07:42'
- author:
    name: Bites of Life
    picture: 114808
  body: "Thanks Piccic, \r\n\r\nI like your point of view. It is a great argument,
    I have to admit that \"grunge design\" to me it means...well, what you said...deconstrutivist
    or post-structural. \r\n\r\nPiccic, It would be great if you can participate in
    the questionary I raised in a different topic about 'Art Deco in the 21st century'.
    Just if you feel like. \r\n\r\nMany Thanks for your comments. It is great!\r\nLaura"
  created: '2008-11-18 22:39:47'
date: '2008-10-13 22:58:48'
title: Graphic and typography design movements and designers

---
