---
author:
  name: blank
body: '<a href="http://blog.wired.com/27bstroke6/2008/10/bush-signs-law.html">The
  US government now has a copyright czar position in the cabinet</a>. Sounds like
  a good person to harass about the policy of typefaces not be copyrightable in the
  US. '
comments:
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Well, digital outline fonts are copyrightable in the USA - the Type 1, TrueType
    or OpenType files, that is.\r\n\r\nIt woudl be nice to have copyright on the design,
    rather than only the more limited (and more difficult) design patent.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-10-14 05:45:07'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "At one point not, too long ago, there was some work being done on proposed
    legislation to include some measure of copyright protection for typeface designs.
    The draft that I saw seemed to be drawing on the model of the boat hull design
    inclusion to find an angle for typeface protection. But I don't know whether it's
    still actively in process.\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-14 13:57:18'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"a copyright czar, a position on par with the nation's drug czar Congress
    created in 1982 to wage the war on drugs\"\r\n\r\nOf course! The war on drugs
    has been such a success! ;)"
  created: '2008-10-14 14:48:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Boats, huh? Maybe all of us should get on board (pun intended) with\r\ncrediting
    Burgess for Times to reinforce the hul..., I mean the case.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-14 17:00:33'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Be careful what you ask for.\r\n\r\n\"Oh, that's just another Egyptian. XXXX
    holds the copyright for Egyptians.\"\r\n\r\nWell, it would cut down on the number
    of new fonts, and enrich the lawyers."
  created: '2008-10-14 17:15:56'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Charles raises an interesting point. You have to wonder, sometimes, if this
    industry deserves better copyright protection, and it did, whether it would be
    beneficial. The present design patent system is practically useless as the examiner
    seems to take the case as presented, regardless of merit. But had we a system
    such as the German one that found Segoe was virtually identical to Frutiger, then
    Myriad would probably also be considered identical to Frutiger. No less an authority
    than Frutiger himself considered it so.\r\n\r\nAs for Burgess - - has a shred
    of independent evidence emerged to support the theory that this man, never hitherto
    associated with type - - was capable of designing TNR or any other typeface? Has
    a single page of a single book in Times printed before 1932 emerged? Where are
    the secret 'bonds' between the corporations that Mike Parker talks about? I retain
    my belief that Mike Parker has perpetrated a marvellous prank. There is not a
    single piece of verifiable evidence to support it as history.\r\n\r\nThe Burgess
    case only illustrates how shallow a case we have to make for type copyright."
  created: '2008-10-14 22:49:17'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>\u2026then Myriad would probably also be considered identical to Frutiger.</cite>\r\n\r\nDidn\u2019t
    they change Myriad <em>because</em>d it was considered identical? Between you
    and Uli I can\u2019t keep the details straight.\r\n\r\n<cite>Where are the secret
    \u2019bonds\u2019 between the corporations that Mike Parker talks about?</cite>\r\n\r\nWhy
    don\u2019t you call him up and ask? Mike\u2019s a very friendly guy and loves
    to talk about type history."
  created: '2008-10-14 23:50:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Or just FINALLY READ THE ARTICLE, Bill.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-14 23:55:18'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">Didn\u2019t they change Myriad becaused it was considered identical? Between
    you and Uli I can\u2019t keep the details straight.\r\n\r\nNo, it didn't start
    out that way. Adobe had what seemed like a good idea: Myriad was supposed to be
    a completely characterless sans serif -- that's why two designers, Robert Slimbach
    and Carol Twombly, were assigned to it. The reasoning was that the two designers
    would cancel out each others' egos. \r\n\r\nVery good reasoning, but it didn't
    take sufficient account either of Robert's ego or his vampyrism. As the project
    moved on, Carol had less and less input on the design and, as she has remarked,
    the design grew more and more to look like Frutiger. (Amusingly enough Frutiger
    and even Segoe are cited in the most recent patent applications for Myriad.)\r\n\r\nIt's
    an astonishing thing but for years very few people, other than Frutiger, noticed
    that Myriad was so close to Frutiger that it had to have been traced over it.
    You couldn't come that close without tracing. Frutiger complained vehemently,
    and was rewarded by the famous seven-page letter from Fred Brady of Adobe, explaining
    all the various ways in which Myriad was not a copy of Frutiger.\r\n\r\nWho to
    believe? Brady or Frutiger? Well, of all the non-entities in 20th century type
    history, Fred Brady is one of the non-est. And of all the masters of 20th century
    type, Adrian Frutiger is one of the greatest. That's a clue. \r\n\r\nIn justice
    to Twombly, it is clear that she was not a willing participant. Carol is not a
    bad person, unless you think it is bad to choose to remain silent when something
    bad is unfolding.\r\n\r\nThe same thing happened, a few years later with Cronos,
    a knockoff of Volker Kuester's Today Sans Serif. I know that Fred knew about this
    in advance, but precisely when? I'll never forget the phone call when I suggested
    to Fred that Adobe should take on Today Sans Serif. Hmmmm, he said. 'Scangraphic?
    Let me have a look at their specimen book. (Rustle of pages.) Today Sans Serif?
    Very nice. Well Bill, if you like Today Sans Serif, you're gonna love Robert's
    new Cronos.'\r\n\r\nI have subsequently wondered: was that the moment when he,
    who I think was technically Robert's manager, discovered that Today and Cronos
    were one and the same? Or was it a put-on for my benefit. \r\n\r\nOne thing I'm
    surer of. When, some time later, I was talking to Carol and pointed out the near
    identity of Today and Cronos, the way she said, 'Not again!' seemed spontaneous.
    Carol did not know, until that moment, what had happened.\r\n\r\nSo there we are.
    No company has been more active in seeking copyright protection than Adobe. But
    Adobe's record is so tarnished that I find myself unable to take much interest
    in font copyright.\r\n\r\nWas there another way for Adobe? There was, and they
    could have taken it, had the font group been possessed of sufficient mettle.\r\n\r\nThere
    is the Font Bureau model. Font Bureau has produced numberless superb knock-offs.
    Each one is impeccably researched and executed, and <em>each one is impeccably
    sourced.</em> \r\n\r\nFont Bureau never stoops to assert that its knockoffs are
    original, much less worthy of patent. But it makes a superb case, which happens
    to be largely true, that its knockoffs are substantial improvements, technically,
    aesthetically, and functionally.\r\n\r\nI have been thinking about Font Bureau's
    model for years, and the more I think about it, the better I think it is. Type
    cannot and should not be over-protected. The key, as in all else, is honesty."
  created: '2008-10-15 12:53:07'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">>Where are the secret \u2019bonds\u2019 between the corporations that Mike
    Parker talks about?\r\n\r\n>Why don\u2019t you call him up and ask? Mike\u2019s
    a very friendly guy and loves to talk about type history.<\r\n\r\nBecause I don't
    think Mike is ready to come clean. \r\n\r\nIf anything were more decisive than
    another, it would be Jim Rimmer's unimpeachable statement that the italic attributed
    to 'Burgess' was in fact designed by him. That's OK. We know Jim Rimmer is a type
    designer and a very, very good one. We know little of Starling Burgess except
    that he was never a type designer.\r\n\r\nNobody has ever shown an original drawing.
    Everything we have been allowed to see has been digitized. And all the 'secret
    agreements' from 1960 which Mike Parker speaks of - - where are they? Why has
    nobody managed to photograph or scan one of them?\r\n\r\nAnd why has nobody, a
    hundred years later, been able to discover a single page printed in TNR before
    1932? \r\n\r\nWhat we do know is that Gerald Giampa needed his skin saved in his
    legal skirmishes with Monotype, and that Mike Parker was the knight to come to
    the poor fellow's rescue. And we also know that the level of philistinism at Monotype
    was so incalculably high that ... it was almost a pushover.\r\n\r\nI'm still waiting
    for original documents, original drawings, original anything.\r\n\r\nThere still
    isn't any."
  created: '2008-10-15 18:11:33'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\nIn some ways, all you're saying is that major corporations are
    acting like major corporations. I remember the head of General Motors saying that
    the reason GM built all those SUVs was because that's what the public demanded
    -- never mind the ad campaigns that created the demand, the lobbying dollars to
    keep the fleet standard gas mileage from including SUVs, etc.\r\n\r\n* * *\r\n\r\nAdobe
    got a patent on the paragraph optimization routine used in InDesign. As I remember,
    Donald Knuth's remark was, essentially, he didn't see the basis for it. On the
    other hand, you can't really expect Adobe to sink all that development money into
    InDesign without some protection.\r\n\r\nAs for Mike Parker & Font Bureau, their
    license prohibits a couple of things vital in my line of work, things which Adobe
    allows. When we did some testing on FB Julianna, the documents we had to sign
    (& which I objected to) apparently addressed concerns of Parker -- that somebody
    was apt to steal the font if embedding in a PFD was allowed.\r\n\r\nTo paraphrase
    a remark about the deity & armies, governments enlist on the side of the most
    (expensive) lawyers. "
  created: '2008-10-15 19:58:10'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"To paraphrase a remark about the deity & armies, governments enlist on
    the side of the most (expensive) lawyers.\"\r\n\r\nI was going to type a long
    winded reply but you summed it up perfectly in that one sentence.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-15 20:19:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Bill, something for your consideration: Matthew Carter once made an experimental
    font (for FUSE, I believe) called Secrets, where each glyph was actually an off-center,
    sort of hazily rendered name. All the names were of undisputed type designers.
    And Carter included \"Starling Burgess\" among them. Now, I'm not saying Carter
    is omniscient or infallible, but I do know that you trust him, and I do know that
    you can get in touch with him, so you might like to ask him what he really thinks.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-16 05:54:54'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "font design copyrights will have the following results:\r\n\r\n1) all existing
    activities will continue.\r\n2) countless students will be criminalized.\r\n3)
    font foundries will add more legal fees to their expenses and then to their prices.\r\n4)
    numerous design ideas will become off limits due to vague accusations of similarity.\r\n5)
    the definition of inspiration and interpretation will be left to lawyers and judges.\r\n6)
    numerous existing fonts will become evidence in labyrinthine legal arguments,
    setting confusing and contradictory precedents.\r\n\r\nit's a terrible idea, sure
    to be a nightmare for everyone. \r\n\r\ni understand and appreciate the hard work
    that goes into font design. i buy my fonts legally. but they are TOOLS afterall.
    they are not the creative end product. restrictive EULA's are offensive enough.
    this would tip the balance into destructive chaos, with only lawyers reaping any
    benefits.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-16 15:24:30'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">what he really thinks\r\n\r\nI asked a few years ago. 'Oh, I don't think
    I can comment on that,' he cheerfully said.\r\n\r\nRe what Chris Harvey has written,
    it is painful for me to say this but everything he says makes sense.\r\n\r\nBut
    what are we to do? There is an unprecedented problem with type design and protection
    today, for the simple reason that there are hundreds of designers and tens of
    thousands of designs. In the entire history of printing there has never been anything
    like this number of designers and fonts. \r\n\r\nParadoxically, more people were
    working on perfectly optically scaled type 80 years ago than seem to be working
    on it now. "
  created: '2008-10-16 19:58:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>...somebody was apt to steal the font if embedding in a PFD was allowed.</em>\r\n\r\nPersonal
    Floatation Device? I understand the Burgess was a boat designer, but surely this
    is one embedding worry that should not concern us. :)"
  created: '2008-10-17 00:00:46'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: Well, Mike's not the roundest apple in the basket. Maybe he needs a personal
    flotation device.
  created: '2008-10-17 02:02:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill, re. Burgess and Times:\r\n\r\nThere are two separate questions here:\r\n\r\n1.
    Does the typeface we know as Times New Roman significantly pre-date the 1931 British
    provenance?\r\n2. Was this typeface in fact designed by Starling Burgess?\r\n\r\nObviously
    a positive answer to the second question relies upon a positive answer to the
    first question, but other than that they are quite separate questions.\r\n\r\nI
    don't think the link to Burgess has been proven. Proof would require physical
    evidence that unambiguously links the design to Burgess (letters, signed drawings,
    etc.), and so far as I am aware such evidence has not been found.\r\n\r\nBut the
    material evidence of the two-part patterns and their numbering -- if they are
    genuine --, suggests very strongly a design that significantly pre-dates 1931.
    The attribution to Burgess, the background of corporate rivalry and distrust,
    etc. are interesting, but ultimately matters of interpretation rather than fact.
    The patterns are either deliberate hoax or they are historical artefacts, and
    if the latter then they raise serious questions about the date of the design of
    Times New Roman, because such patterns are associated with an manufacturing process.\r\n\r\n[By
    the way, whatever else may come of this issue, Mike's work documenting the series
    numbering of Lanston types, their italic set systems, and other aspects of the
    manufactuing of Monotype faces, as recorded in the appendices to his <em>Printing
    History</em> represent a significant work of historical investigation that deserves
    to be acknowledged in its own right.]\r\n___\r\n\r\nRe. the Rimmer italic. I think
    the confusion over this is due to the fact that Giampa was never clear about the
    provenance of the italic drawing. He wasn't when he showed it to me, more than
    a decade ago, at his workshop in Vancouver. It was identified only as trial drawings
    for the Burgess italic, which Gerald was planning to release as a digital type.
    He didn't specify that it was designed by Jim as a companion for the Roman, and
    left the interpretation open that it was in some way connected with Burgess or
    with the original design. Disingenuous to say the least."
  created: '2008-10-17 06:29:00'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: You will regret it.
  created: '2008-10-17 19:13:11'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Who will regret what ? ? \r\n\r\n>Re. the Rimmer italic.\r\n\r\nCome on,
    John, nobody is confused about whether Jim Rimmer has designed an italic for them
    or not. This is something that one knows.  \r\n\r\nNot even poor little Gerald
    Giampa (who I think went a little too far when he asked the OpenType list to contribute
    funds to his household as he was having to burn his furniture in the stove for
    it was so <em>very</em> cold) is capable of being confused about such a thing.\r\n\r\nAnd
    to suppose that Mike Parker, that canny businessman and entrepreneur, could be
    confused about any of this, defies credibility. \r\n\r\nThere is not a single
    piece of independently verifiable evidence to connect Starling Burgess to the
    Times typeface.\r\n\r\nI would be the first to applaud if there were. I would
    be thrilled. \r\n\r\nBut this is just an amusing hoax that doesn't even rise to
    the level of the pranks that are occasionally inserted into the august Grove Dictionary
    of Music and Musicians. However, it has served its purpose, which was to distentangle
    Giampa from Monotype's legal eagles. Now that Gerald's Lanston/Monotype establishment
    doesn't seem to exist anymore, why doesn't everyone just come clean? Even Trever-Roper
    admitted he had been had. It doesn't seem to have done irreparable harm, long-term,
    to his reputation."
  created: '2008-10-17 22:02:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill, I didn't say anyone was confused *now* about Rimmer's italic. I was
    referring to the confusion <em>before</em> Rimmer's article.\r\n\r\nRead what
    I wrote again, and read it carefully. I agree that there is no proof of a link
    between Burgess and the Times face. But the nature of the Series 54 patterns suggests
    something very much earlier than 1931. Unless someone made those patterns, complete
    with patina, in order to perpetrate a bizarre hoax, I think they do leave a question
    about the provenance of this design."
  created: '2008-10-17 22:39:24'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Remind me John of the nature of these patina'd patterns? Who has seen them?
    Are these the things that were reproduced after Giampa's 'digitization'? ? \r\n\r\nNow
    about Burgess. In 1911, he's trying to sell the US government an airplane, but
    unfortunately it crashes with him in it. He apparently isn't badly hurt. Let's
    go back to 1909. He's a leading figure in Boston society; when his wife opens
    a shop, she gets a paragraph in the New York Times. \r\n\r\nAnd let's go back
    to 1902, before the so-called typeface is designed. He's working on boats for
    the Americas Cup; he's making several boats a year. \r\n\r\nWhen does he have
    time to design Times New Roman? And if he did, wouldn't he say something about
    it? He was obviously one of the great self-publicists.\r\n\r\nAnd for heaven's
    sake, why doesn't he complain, in 1932, when he sees his typeface being ripped
    off? Or did he, too, have to sign a 'secret bond' to use Mike Parker's marvellously
    schoolboyish words . . . . "
  created: '2008-10-18 00:26:04'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: I can't wait until judges are also giving design critiques, deciding on the
    originality of typefaces. Or even better, a jury, assumably one with no design
    background since they would be biased.
  created: '2008-10-18 03:16:25'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill, I'm not very interested in the Burgess side of things. There is evidence
    of his involvement in private publishing in the relevant period, but since there
    isn't a definitive link to the design I don't think there is much to be gained
    in the debate either way. Burgess is Mike's thing, not mine.\r\n\r\nThe patterns
    to which I refer are the two-part brass patterns in which letters have been cut
    from one sheet of brass which has then been affixed to a backing sheet. It is
    this process, along with the stamped series number 54, that suggest an early initial
    manufacturing, because this process was no longer in use in 1932. By that time,
    patterns were being cut in relief on a single piece of brass. These patterns have
    been photographed, and appear on the front cover of the issue of <em>Printing
    History</em> that contained Mike's initial article on the subject. I held one
    of the patterns in my hand when I visited Gerald in the early '90s.\r\n\r\nThe
    patterns have two sets of series numbers on them: 54 and 362, the latter being
    the Times series number. The style of numbers used in the stamps is consistent
    with the two periods. Nicholas Barker suggested that the displacement of metal
    caused by the stamping might indicate that the 54 was stamped after ther 362 --
    a point that I raised from the audience in challenge to Mike's recent TypeCon
    lecture --, but Mike counters that this would only be the case if a punch with
    a tapered shank we used to stamp the numbers, whereas a punch on a flat face would
    flatten the area around the numbers as consistent with the patterns. This doesn't
    prove that either set of numbers was stamped before the other, but leaves the
    question open.\r\n\r\nIt is the kind of pattern that continues to leave me unconvinced
    that this is a hoax. The two-part pattern is not something that there is any reason
    to have made in the 1930s; indeed, the contemporary equipment and processes in
    both the UK and USA were tailored to single piece patterns. But if these were
    forgeries, why would they be stamped with the 362 Times series number?\r\n\r\nIt
    is a while since I've paid anything like significant attention to this issue:
    I decided long ago that it was unlikely to be definitively resolved. But I do
    think the question is still open and not, as you suggest, a foregone conclusion.
    There is also material evidence in terms of drawings at the Smithsonian, about
    which I don't remember the details, and early trials of a remarkably Times-like
    type for <em>Time</em> magazine that precede 1932.\r\n\r\nRe. the 'bond of confidentiality':
    so far as I am aware, Monotype have never disputed the existence of such a document,
    nor have Linotype or the Times newspapers who, according to Mike, were the other
    signatories."
  created: '2008-10-18 04:55:20'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "We need a separate forum on Typophile: Discussions that veered off into the
    debate over historic faces purported to be copies.\r\n\r\n;o)"
  created: '2008-10-18 14:53:06'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">Re. the \u2019bond of confidentiality\u2019: so far as I am aware, Monotype
    have never disputed the existence of such a document, nor have Linotype or the
    Times newspapers who, according to Mike, were the other signatories.\r\n\r\nYou
    could just as well assume that they thought it was too childish (or too churlish)
    to respond to.\r\n\r\nRegardless of all that precedes this, one must ask oneself
    how on earth it is that a complete newcomer to type design could possibly have
    designed a typeface of such innate quality (let the naysayers to that assertion
    remember that it is Robert Slimbach's favourite typeface) without a very near
    model? I am inclined to accept the traditional assertion that it was closely based
    on Plantin, a typeface of remarkable quality in metal form that still awaits a
    passable digital reawakening.\r\n\r\nOne must also ask, what, of the available
    evidence, could have been forged on lonely nights at Prince Edwards Island or
    whererever Giampa was conducting his business? What alternative explanations are
    there? And why are there so many schoolboy holes in it all? \r\n\r\nFinally, I
    must admit that I do have a nagging doubt about the transformation of Plantin
    into Times. Plantin, in metal, is a typeface of phenomenal refinement, much more
    so than Times. Surely, a successor would have been even more refined. I can't
    quite put it into words, but if you asked me to consider the dating of Times and
    Plantin quite independently, I think I would have to guess that Times preceded
    it. Times does, indeed, have something intangible that seems to place it firmly
    in an earlier period."
  created: '2008-10-19 17:14:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Once again, I am not signed up to the Burgess hypothesis, so I'm not inclined
    to ponder 'how on earth it is that a complete newcomer etc.'.\r\n\r\nThe only
    point I want to make is that the material evidence of the two-part patterns suggests
    an original manufacture significantly prior to 1932. Everything else is conjecture."
  created: '2008-10-19 21:52:42'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I chatted with some top Monotype folks a few years after Parker published
    the two-part Burgess article. My recollection is that they said quite explicitly
    that they had never heard of this \"bond of confidentiality\" and suggested that
    if it existed, Giampa could show it to them.\r\n\r\nIn a similar vein, Rich and
    Carima at P22 purchased the Lanston Monotype assets, and they have said since
    that they have seen no trace of the bond of confidentiality nor of anything else
    relating to Times/Burgess, and believe it to have been a hoax.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-10-21 09:37:01'
date: '2008-10-14 05:38:11'
node_type: forum
title: Get those fonts copyrighted!

---
