---
author:
  name: Olivier Deneef
  picture: 114395
body: "Hi everyone,\r\n\r\nFor my masterproject i'm writing about the conflict of
  academic - professional designers.\r\nI want to work for this thesis around the
  book - Twenty-two things you should never do with typefaces - by Enric Jardi.\r\nFor
  every rule he tels not to do, i want to prove that it can be done, because type
  is more than rules, it's about a feeling, you cant just say how to become good type\u2026
  atleast not in a radical way\u2026\r\n\r\nThe first thing i want to bring up is
  the following:\r\n\r\n\"Avoid script, Letters that look like handwriting can be
  a nice decorative resource, but they are not exactly typefaces\".\r\nThis is rule
  Nr. 8 in the book\r\n\r\nI want to prove that you can use script letters properly,
  so now my question is, can you guys give me good examples of the correct use of
  script letters, or is this rule correct? Shouldn't you use them? What are good script
  letters and are there well-known designers who use them frequently?\r\n\r\nI realy
  hope this brings a discussion alive, because it would help me very much and i would
  use all the text in my project that is posted here.\r\n\r\nBest regards,\r\n\r\n\r\nOlivier\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "The most important thing here is to first look at how he defines a \"typeface\".
    If he goes on to describe his definition of a typeface, I would look at that closely
    to determine whether or not you can contradict his rule.\r\n\r\nContradicting
    his rules while not playing by his rules won't result in anything significant.\r\n\r\npenn"
  created: '2008-10-14 17:27:48'
- author:
    name: Olivier Deneef
    picture: 114395
  body: "You're absolutely right penn,\r\n\r\n\"Using scripts is like plastic flowers
    in your house; they work, but they will never be like real flowers. That is why
    you should bear in mind that a calligraphic typeface is a somewhat fraudulent
    style.\" says Enric Jardi.\r\n\r\nFor me, i think he's talking about a script
    as a textletter, as a letter to set the body with.\r\n\r\nNow i don't have anything
    against these books, the reason why i'm doing this is because i think it is funny
    that for the mere part of the rules in typography you can give an example that
    contradicts it, and that is what i will try to do with this book.\r\n\r\n\r\nOlivier"
  created: '2008-10-14 17:57:43'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "\u201CUsing scripts is like plastic flowers in your house; they work, but
    they will never be like real flowers. That is why you should bear in mind that
    a calligraphic typeface is a somewhat fraudulent style.\u201D\r\n\r\nFirst off,
    if there are any really true forms they are calligraphic - not plastic! And if
    you want to go the fraudulent direction... just look at the sans! They are the
    contrived forms.\r\n\r\nAnd this guy is licensed to teach? By the looks of his
    typefaces he has never drawn or lettered anything in his life... that should be
    a clue! \r\n\r\nSad\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-10-14 18:29:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Tell the guy to look at Ale Paul's work and see if he still thinks the same
    way.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-10-14 18:44:50'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Good call Chris!\r\n\r\n\"conflict of academic - professional designers.\"\r\n\r\nThe
    first pontificate, the latter produce. Nuf said?\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-10-14 19:02:04'
- author:
    name: Olivier Deneef
    picture: 114395
  body: "Thanks for the comment ChrisL, \r\n\r\nthis is what i want to hear, i want
    examples like you just said, so i can illustrate there are beatiful calligraphic
    letters to use in text etc\u2026   I want examples people :-)\r\n\r\n\r\nP.S:
    i don't know the author, i don't criticise him, i'm just using his book"
  created: '2008-10-14 19:34:04'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "I would lose the book after you are finished with the project, and I am criticizing
    him. He is an idiot.\r\n\r\nGo on any of the collective foundry websites and look
    for scripts, and look specifically for ones that would do well in text. They ARE
    out there.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-10-14 19:47:11'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "There are only three things you need to consider about lists...\r\n\r\n1.
    They are generally incomplete, silly or just plain wrong\r\n2. People who write
    lists are generally assholes\r\n3. Lists accurately convey the assholeness of
    the author\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-14 20:31:33'
- author:
    name: pica pusher
    picture: 111287
  body: "I don't believe Jardi's suggesting calligraphic forms are bad, Michael. Seems
    to me he's saying script typefaces mimic true handwriting in the same way that
    plastic flowers mimic real flowers.\r\n\r\nThe challenge, then, is to create a
    design where a script typeface works but perfect, beautiful handwriting wouldn't.\r\n\r\n(edit:
    we cross-posted, Simon, but your list cracked me up!)"
  created: '2008-10-14 20:33:28'
- author:
    name: Olivier Deneef
    picture: 114395
  body: "\r\n\"The challenge, then, is to create a design where a script typeface
    works but perfect, beautiful handwriting wouldn\u2019t.\"\r\n\r\n\r\ni never thought
    of it this way, but you're absolutely right! i think this will be the challange
    for me, to find a case where a script typeface just works better than handwriting\u2026\r\n\r\nany
    suggestions?"
  created: '2008-10-14 20:48:45'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "I think you are naive to believe that there are not those who basically despise
    lettering. It HAS been stated on this site before. I just chalk it up to ignorance.
    \r\n\r\nWith OT there are times when I cannot tell the difference between type
    and lettering. That sort of defeats his argument. Check out Stephen Rapp's newest
    additions to the script arena. \r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-10-14 20:59:04'
- author:
    name: Olivier Deneef
    picture: 114395
  body: thanks for your help michael
  created: '2008-10-14 21:14:29'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "Check out the [[http://www.sudtipos.com|sudtipos]] foundry. They have some
    nice script faces.\r\n\r\npenn"
  created: '2008-10-14 21:37:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>conflict of academic - professional designers</em>\r\n\r\nCan you explain
    what you mean by this?"
  created: '2008-10-14 21:47:12'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Greetings John.\r\n\r\nI have been involved with a couple of universities
    for a number of years. I noticed that those who were not producing, working in
    the real world, subjecting themselves to client scrutiny were proliferators of
    bs. Their rhetoric was basically untested, erroneous and pure tripe. The profs
    who were splitting their time between the REAL world and academia were much more
    grounded. Does that help John? Pretty simplistic but what I found.\r\n\r\nI once
    taught a class in Lettering in Contemporary Design. Much to my surprise at the
    end of the semester the Chairman called me in. He told me the students came in
    en masse and said they learned more from my class than they had learned in 4 semesters
    of typography. All the type teachers were educated, but non practitioners!\r\n\r\n
    Michael"
  created: '2008-10-14 22:07:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Always Practice before you preach but never preach before you practice.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-10-14 22:11:48'
- author:
    name: Stephen Rapp
    picture: 111901
  body: "There is a book a couple years back, which I don't recall the title; but
    it was double sided. One side had traditional typography explaining the rules,
    and the other side was more contemporary and broke each rule. Maybe someone here
    might recall that.\r\n\r\nAs for scripts being plastic... all type is nothing
    more than images that represent language. It may be true that calligraphic scripts
    are not \"the real thing\" compared to directly written lettering, but they can
    still convey much of the beauty and energy of hand written text. Calligraphic
    and handwritten type designs like other display faces have their place in design
    and are certainly validated by the test of time. "
  created: '2008-10-14 22:19:53'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "You are right Chris. I just let them make \"mud pies\" and then gave them
    the constraints of fit. Three of the best semesters I ever spent. Then budget
    cuts hit! Adjunct, the ones with their finger on the pulse, are the first to go.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-10-14 22:20:50'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "If I am not mistaken, Mistral is 55+ years old. I would not hesitate to use
    it today if called for. And I am a lettering artist/type designer first... designer
    second.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-10-14 22:46:22'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Tell the guy to look at Ale Paul\u2019s work and see if he still thinks
    the same way.</cite>\r\n\r\nSeconded. And you should really talk to Ale about
    this subject and see if he has a recording of his talk from Typecon, or similar
    talks, about the awesome impact his fonts and workshops have had on package design
    in Latin and South America."
  created: '2008-10-14 23:54:20'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hmmm. Let's see: the Ten Commandments, a list. That means the list maker
    is ... .\r\n\r\nWow that explains a lot about the world I never could understand
    :) "
  created: '2008-10-15 00:05:40'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "<em>There are only three things you need to consider about lists...\r\n\r\n1.
    They are generally incomplete, silly or just plain wrong\r\n2. People who write
    lists are generally assholes\r\n3. Lists accurately convey the assholeness of
    the author\r\n</em>\r\n\r\nJudging from this list, Si, you're only moderately
    assholey. "
  created: '2008-10-15 00:57:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> masterproject\r\n> For every rule he tels not to do, i want to prove that
    it can be done\r\n\r\nThey gave you a Bachelor's?\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nRule #1 that
    most idiotic graphic designers break within\r\ntwo minutes: do not squeeze/stretch
    type horizontally.\r\n\r\nFeeling? Try eating tree bark and see how you feel.\r\n\r\n>>
    a calligraphic typeface is a somewhat fraudulent style.\r\n\r\nThis is essentially
    true.\r\nI remember the first time I held a large metal sort of\r\nPalatino Italic
    in my palm, I had this very powerful\r\nnegative vibe in me telling me: THIS IS
    NOT RIGHT.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-15 02:02:28'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "\"I remember the first time I held a large metal sort of\r\nPalatino Italic
    in my palm, I had this very powerful\r\nnegative vibe in me telling me: THIS IS
    NOT RIGHT.\"\r\n\r\nI won't even post what I originally typed in. But you have
    proven what I have thought all along. You have no clue. Your agenda has dulled
    you to excellence. You talk about discovery and yet you are unaware of what impact
    Palatino had when it was released!\r\n\r\nTotally clueless. And now I have no
    respect for you. \r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-10-15 03:13:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Oh <em>yeah</em>, WELL, <strong>WELL</strong>...\r\n(I'm sorry, I tried,
    but couldn't really muster an emotional reaction.)\r\n\r\nI can offer these clarifications
    however:\r\n1) What I felt was a very abrupt, gentle but significant vibe. Unless
    I'm an expert at self-hypnosis, my Agenda, which is conscious, I doubt could have
    had such a visceral effect. Essentially, my anti-chirographic stance comes just
    as much from the depths of my being as it does from the (contextual) heights of
    my thought.\r\n2) It was Palatino Italic's physical presence on the rectangular
    face of a stick of metal that I found \"fraudulent\". Palatino -especially the
    Roman- as an abstact design itself is perhaps less offensive to me. That said,
    even if I think any font has its place, I don't personally believe Palatino is
    something to be emulated, especially not today.\r\n3) Whatever \"impact Palatino
    had when it was released\" is not relevant to my stance, and certainly not my
    anecdote. The Black Plague also had a large effect on Europe.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-15 04:15:16'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "@typerror: <em>You have no clue. . . Totally clueless. And now I have no
    respect for you.</em>\r\n\r\nAn ad hominem personal attack or \"argument against
    the man\", and a logical fallacy. It seems you're not content make an ad hominem
    attack on Enric Jardi, calling him an \"idiot\".\r\n\r\nNote: I am not defending
    anybody here, just pointing out the ad hominem stuff when it happens. Remember
    that the whole world can potentially read this.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-10-15 08:46:53'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: "I think this Enric Jardi list is a sort of social engineering -- he's assuming
    the reader is probably in school, a newcomer to design, or just doesn't know a
    whole lot about typography. I would imagine he's a proponent of the philosophy
    that \"you need to know the rules before you can break them,\" which I happen
    to agree with. \r\n\r\nThe worst that could happen, if let's say a design student
    really takes his list to heart and lives by the rules their whole career, is that
    they produce safe design. It's probably boring uninspired work most of the time,
    but at least the world is safe from their terrible experimentation, and most of
    what they produce will at least be \"effective,\" in the sense that it will look
    like professional work \r\n\r\nThe best situation is if they learn the rules,
    try to follow them, but then figure out on their own after a few months or years
    that there are a whole lot of exceptions to the rules. Personally, memorable learning
    moments for me have been when I see something I was taught was true is not always
    true, or is flat out false. \r\n\r\nI think the most common situation, however,
    is for people to totally disregard the rules just because they are called rules,
    and they don't want to design according to set parameters -- they want to reinvent
    the wheel, be the next David Carson. It would be much worse to learn the rules
    and abide by them your whole life, to be sure. But I think most people spend a
    lot of time trying to be totally original, and not not enough time absorbing influences
    and then naturally evolving that into their own voice. \r\n\r\nOf course, you
    need to really believe that the rules are \"The Rules\" in the beginning, otherwise
    you're not going to take them seriously."
  created: '2008-10-15 11:50:49'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "Perhaps off topic, but anyone who's familiar with the work of Enric Jardi,
    knows he is an excellent designer.\r\nAnd his flower analogy works for me. If
    you want to reach the core of typography, scripts are simply not where you start.
    But I think this is common knowledge among designers that are not crap."
  created: '2008-10-15 13:08:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'On script faces, it is true that they are often used inappropriately. But
    they can be used well, and beautifully. I know this is boring, but also true.
    Calm down, folks, enjoy the fall weather. '
  created: '2008-10-15 13:45:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "There is also something to be said for a period of a completely naive approach
    to design where you have not learned any rules or axioms. With this once in a
    lifetime opportunity, you get to struggle with the forces that make type work
    or fail and apply your logic to why certain things affect each other. This tact
    brings a learning which is deep and substantive. You may find that you arrive
    at a similar set of \"rules\" but you really get a better grasp of \"why\" these
    rules came about. Afterwards, you can study all the rules and dialogue about them
    with a real understanding of when to apply and when to ignore the rules. If you
    learn the rules first, you can never experience the child-like state of discovery
    that unbounded learning can bring you.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-10-15 13:49:42'
- author:
    name: Olivier Deneef
    picture: 114395
  body: "@ John hudson\r\n\r\nAcademic - more cultural, more conceptual designs\r\nProfessional
    - dtp work, less creativity, higher output.\r\n\r\n(don't say that one is better
    than the other, they're just different)\r\n\r\nAs i mentioned it, it had nothing
    to do with the teachers, all of our teachers work, have earned their position
    as a teacher.\r\n\r\nHope this answers your question.\r\n\r\n\r\n@hhp, don't realy
    get your point\r\n\r\n@feelthekern\r\n\r\n\"The best situation is if they learn
    the rules, try to follow them, but then figure out on their own after a few months
    or years that there are a whole lot of exceptions to the rules.\"\r\n\r\nThis
    is the situation i'm in right know, for three years we have learned nothig but
    rules, but during these years we also broke them, just to see wat works and what
    doesn't. This is why is want to do this with Enric Jardi's book - it could be
    any other book with rules about type - i have learned them, and now i want to
    play with them, make the opposite of his book, i just think it's realy funny to
    do, as a research for myself, what works, what doesn't etc\u2026\r\n\r\n@everybody
    else, thx for your comments, learned alot these last two days\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-15 13:50:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The problem with the \"breaking the rule or not\" mentality is that it's
    never really a binary decision. This is something Modernism (my definition of
    which extends back to the Ancient Romans) has forced on us, and it's time to break
    free of those shackles.\r\n\r\nBelieve you me, I can appreciate the desire to
    break rules - so many of them around us are so stupid (although mostly the ones
    made by politicians in a democratic system, not the ones made by craftsmen). But
    starting with the assumption that any rule must be false is stupid too.\r\n\r\nFor
    example, reading text is not just a matter of habit; the human eye and brain prefer
    certain things, like type that's within a certain size range. Similarly, if you
    assume that a typeface designer has made his curves just so, blindly compressing/extending
    type is unintelligent and unwise. Testing the limits of such rules is highly commendable,
    but being intent on breaking them is sad old 90s PoMo.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-15 15:25:15'
- author:
    name: Olivier Deneef
    picture: 114395
  body: "True hhp, but let's make one thing clear, maybe it was wrong of me to say
    that i wanted to \"break the rules\",\r\ncause that's not really the point. I'm
    searching for arguments to prove that there isn't such a thing as \"one correct
    way\" of typography, its what you as a designer want to do with it, maybe making
    something so wrong that it's just right for he purpose\u2026\r\n\r\nWhen a designer
    stops asking himself questions about the \"why\" of so many things, he's in trouble,
    or at least that's what \r\nworks for me\u2026\r\n\r\n\r\ngreetings\r\n\r\nOlivier"
  created: '2008-10-15 17:04:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "As for examples, one can find a lot in advertising.\r\nThey are not necessarily
    plastic imitations of the real thing, but offer the genuine glamour of trompe-l'\u0153il.
    \r\nArtifice, not artificiality.\r\nIn that sense, there is not much difference
    between a painstakingly rendered one-off piece of fancy-swashed script and a piece
    of typography in a painstakingly rendered Ale Paul OpenType font."
  created: '2008-10-15 18:23:32'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "generally i feel that rules are for suckers, yet i conform to many out of
    convenience, cowardice, or common sense. but aesthetic rules in particular are
    just conventions with no relevance to the real creative process. \r\nfont and
    letter designs impress me in large part because they represent hybrid skills where
    so many disparate disciplines converge. conventions and standards have a valid
    place here in a way that seems less true for other forms of creativity. \r\nperhaps
    that is the craft, while unconventional and experimental forms edge in from other
    places.\r\n\r\ni like this project, for its simple formality. 1) list the rules.
    2) break the rules. \r\nit should be easy to find examples of all sorts of transgressions.\r\n\r\nand
    to paraphrase sii: ad hominem attacks are generally incomplete, silly or just
    plain wrong. people who resort to them are generally assholes, and the attack
    conveys the assholeness of the author.\r\n\r\nsorry at the moment i don't have
    more to contribute other than attitude and encouragement.\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-16 04:26:21'
- author:
    name: Graham McArthur
    picture: 109915
  body: "Take away the rules and you have no game. The rules define the craft. If
    gravity ignored the rules we would all drift endlessly in space and yet it is
    the laws of gravity which enable us to fly. Change or defy a rule only means you
    replace it with another. No matter how hard you try you will always have at least
    one rule left: there are no rules. Also no matter how hard you try you will still
    need to draw the line in the sand or else you can not cross it.\r\n\r\n\"...aesthetic
    rules in particular are just conventions with no relevance to the real creative
    process.\"\r\n\r\nNot so."
  created: '2008-10-16 05:09:44'
- author:
    name: Thenquin
  body: "ad hominem: an attack on a persons' character rather than the argument they
    put forward.\r\n\r\nad mominem: a \"yo' momma...\" rather than focus on the argument
    put forward.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-16 05:40:13'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Olivier,\r\n\r\nYou know, Jard\xED's book really has two parts. One half,
    as you say, is called <em>Twenty-two things you should never do with typefaces
    (that some typographers will never tell you)</em>. But if you flip the book over,
    the other half is called <em>Twenty-two tips on typography (that some designers
    will never reveal)</em>. It says things like, \"Reject fake bolds, italics and
    small capitals,\" and \"Learn how H&Js work.\" Are you going to try to refute
    these tips, too? ;-)\r\n\r\nSorry... I'm just playing devil's advocate... testing
    your thesis.\r\n\r\n[EDIT] By the way... The English version of the book has its
    own page <a href=\"http://www.actar-d.com/index.php?option=com_dbquery&task=ExecuteQuery&qid=1&idllibre=3886&lang=en\"><strong>here</strong></a>."
  created: '2008-10-16 06:22:45'
- author:
    name: dsb
    picture: 111042
  body: "Students are taught \"rules\" because they haven't yet developed the eye
    to see certain details.\r\nOnce a student can see how off the proportions of fake
    small caps or bolds look (especially in running text), they are no longer rules,
    they are just what looks right and what looks off.\r\n\r\nCan you even make fake
    bolds in Indesign anymore? I thought I heard or read that it only does it if the
    font is available?\r\n\r\n\r\nderek\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2008-10-16 07:49:27'
- author:
    name: Olivier Deneef
    picture: 114395
  body: "Hey Ricardo,\r\n\r\n\r\nYou're right, that part of the book makes much more
    sense, but even then i will give counterarguments for each one.\r\nI'm not saying
    he's not right about fake bolds etc\u2026 but for H&Js i will give an example
    of will holder\u2026 it's maybe not the right thing to do, but it works for him.
    It's examples like this one that makes it interesting for me.\r\n\r\nAnd you're
    right about testing my thesis, critique helps me (hopefully) to a higher level
    in my thesis :)\r\n\r\n\r\nBest regards,\r\n\r\n\r\nOlivier\r\n\r\n\r\nP.S.: @
    CH, thanks for your comment, really liked what you said."
  created: '2008-10-16 09:15:34'
- author:
    name: wrenfern
    picture: 113103
  body: 'I think this thread has revealed a more interesting angle of approach on
    your project. Perhaps present examples of breaking the rules that result in both
    utter failures as well as great success. I think it would be much more rewarding
    to work on for you, and offer more to the reader as well as they become an active
    participant in sorting the issue out for themselves. Plus the exploratory slant
    is much more appealing and mature than a reactionary one. '
  created: '2008-10-17 02:41:51'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: "I like Wrenfern's idea above. The end goal is good design, and there are
    multiple ways to get there. Some people do it through strict rules, some people
    do it through having a rule about no rules or trying to break the rules, and most
    of use a combination of conventions with our own personal spin. \r\n\r\nMy feeling
    is that the people who really stand out are those who go to polar extremes --
    for instance in the Helvectica documentary, they interview people like Massimo
    Vignelli and Stefan Sagmeister. They don't interview Joe or Jane Designer who
    does some pretty nice annual reports, and gets a few things in the annuals every
    year.\r\n\r\nThe question of \"is there one approach, regarding the adherence
    to, rejection of, or finding some middle ground in terms of rules, that produces
    good design?\" is a much more interesting question to me. My guess is that all
    hinges if you're looking for regularity -- people who adhere to rules are going
    to produce design that is more predictably good than those who are wildly experimental.
    The wildly experimental person is going to maybe produce a lot of failures, but
    a few incredibly memorable things as well. But that's just my guess."
  created: '2008-10-18 02:55:12'
date: '2008-10-14 17:20:53'
node_type: forum
title: Twenty-two things you should never do with typefaces

---
