---
author:
  name: eliason
  picture: 109936
body: "Here's the present condition of my first font. I've been [[http://typophile.com/blog/3254|blogging]]
  about it on Typophile but I thought I'd do a post here in the critique forum and
  specifically invite feedback. \r\n\r\n(pdfs attached below)\r\n\r\nThanks in advance
  for your thoughts. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_6433.gif]"
comments:
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Hopeful bump. Any reactions or suggestions on this first font?
  created: '2008-10-22 15:33:12'
- author:
    name: pinguin
    picture: 115630
  body: This is very original.Everything flows very nicely.
  created: '2008-10-22 18:56:02'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: what's your intended use?
  created: '2008-10-23 11:22:05'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em> what\u2019s your intended use?</em>\r\n\r\nI'm looking for something
    that will work in smallish sizes (say, 10pt up to subtitle size), and is comfortable
    enough for middling-length texts, such as sidebars or captions. Maybe places where
    one might otherwise use running italics? I think the \"handwritten\" voice of
    this might work well for pull-quotes. It looks to me like it also might work as
    an alternative to \"architect\" fonts (or Comic Sans!), where a somewhat casual,
    but not condescending, style is desired.\r\n\r\nThis started as formal experimentation
    so the potential uses are more \"emergent\" than intended from the get-go. If
    it would be beneficial for the design to define its uses more precisely and if
    there are good practices for doing that, I'd welcome that feedback too."
  created: '2008-10-23 14:32:48'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "It looks good, but needs more unity. I like the bumps that come from the
    cursive styling, they give the letters a very friendly tone. I do think that this
    could make a great face for running copy in the same way Palatino Sans is. \r\n\r\nThe
    majuscules feel much more formal and machine-made than the minuscules; s, v, w
    and x have the same stiff feel. There are also letters that get a little too informal\u2014a
    feels a little sloppy with its left lean. And k is distracting in the same way
    that the r is in Palatino Sans.\r\n\r\nI would also consider doing more with stroke
    terminals. The tapering round descenders on j and y are gorgeous. Coming up with
    a system for angled/tapered terminals throughout will really push this face up
    a notch. \r\n\r\nLast, throw together some ligatures or contextual alternates,
    at least the f-ligs, just for visual punch. I realize that your letters don\u2019t
    crash, but this face is just begging for some cool ligatures. "
  created: '2008-10-23 15:27:11'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: well without much of a purpose given for this to satisfy, all i can really
    say is that the g and k bother me, as do the differing approaches towards triangular
    corners (A, M, Z). other than that it's fairly cohesive as a type system, if that's
    your only goal.
  created: '2008-10-23 15:58:31'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Thanks, James and Paul, for the helpful comments. I appreciate the time you
    spent looking at this. I've uploaded a new pdf that includes some of your suggestions
    heeded.\r\n\r\n<em>The majuscules feel much more formal and machine-made than
    the minuscules; </em>\r\n\r\nThe more formal caps are intended - I'm trying to
    pull off something like this (in terms of formal caps and more cursive minuscules):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/600px-Arrighi_italic_4900.png]\r\n\r\nI
    may have to abandon that conceit if I can't get it to work, though.\r\n\r\n<em>s,
    v, w and x have the same stiff feel.</em>\r\n\r\nAgreed; I've softened v, w, and
    x, and will take a look at s. \r\n\r\n<em>There are also letters that get a little
    too informal\u2014a feels a little sloppy with its left lean.</em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    I'm not terribly happy with that a. I'll try to clean it up. I'm trying to retain
    a bit of the \"loopiness\" in the stem on the right, but reconciling that with
    the top curve is proving difficult. A single-story a is much easier to meld with
    the style, but if I can get it to work I'd prefer a two-story.\r\n\r\n<em>And
    k is distracting in the same way that the r is in Palatino Sans.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    wondered if I would get away with that! \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_3614.gif]\r\n\r\nknock
    is closest to working, no?\r\n\r\n<em>I would also consider doing more with stroke
    terminals. The tapering round descenders on j and y are gorgeous. Coming up with
    a system for angled/tapered terminals throughout will really push this face up
    a notch.</em>\r\n\r\nExcellent - that will be my next big project for this.\r\n\r\n<em>Last,
    throw together some ligatures or contextual alternates, at least the f-ligs, just
    for visual punch. I realize that your letters don\u2019t crash, but this face
    is just begging for some cool ligatures.</em>\r\n\r\nAnother good idea. I've added
    fl, fi, and ti. The latter two connect at the crossbar. Will ponder more.\r\n\r\n<em>well
    without much of a purpose given for this to satisfy, all i can really say is that
    the g and k bother me,</em>\r\n\r\nk discussed above. I've reverted to the original,
    one-story g in the latest pdf. Not as fun but more fitting to the face, I suppose.
    Maybe I should pull the descender around a bit further. \r\n\r\nI'm not sure whether
    to have another go at the two-story g. Was its problem that it was poorly drawn,
    too busy, or just the wrong flavor for the font?\r\n\r\n<em>as do the differing
    approaches towards triangular corners (A, M, Z).</em>\r\n\r\nI've now chopped
    the points off of A, W, and V to match N, M, and Z. Question: does a pointy vertex
    in the middle of M and W look weird?"
  created: '2008-10-24 16:40:35'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>\u2026\u2019m trying to pull off something like this\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nIt
    could work, but doing so could limit the use of the font to special projects by
    ballsy designers. Which allows me to segue to my next point. I think that you
    would be well-served to really nail down a pen theory behind this design. The
    majuscules have a the mechanical feel of letters constructed mechanically to idealized
    humanist proportions. Most of the minuscules have the feeling of the same proportions
    realized with modern felt-tip or ball-point pens. But then there are the occasions
    where a flexible nib pops out\u2014y, h, and u. I\u2019m not sure that all of
    these can be reconciled into a single design that doesn\u2019t have the cacophonous
    feel of Makela\u2019s Dead History. Of course, there\u2019s a place for that kind
    of feel, but I don\u2019t think that\u2019s where you\u2019re going. \r\n\r\nWhat
    you could do here is create the basis for a larger typographic system similar
    to ITC Stone. Looking at your second specimen I see how this could turn into a
    fabulous informal text face with a companion sans to use for titling.\r\n\r\n<cite>knock
    is closest to working, no?</cite>\r\n\r\nDefinitely. \r\n\r\n<cite>I\u2019ve added
    fl, fi, and ti.</cite>\r\n\r\nThey\u2019re fun and they add a nice touch of class.\r\n\r\nI
    do prefer your single-story g. I don\u2019t know if a two-story g could fit into
    these proportions, but it\u2019s still worth exploring. "
  created: '2008-10-25 01:14:22'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "This is really helpful criticism James. \r\n\r\nOn nailing down a pen theory:
    I have developed these letters as a monoline (which I guess corresponds to a felt-tip),
    and then I began thinning strokes where they merged to reduce black spots. I wasn't
    thinking of a pen-front, but rather of the kinds of adjustments you see in Futura
    for example. But now that you point it out, the \"cursivity\" of this letter construction
    is probably going to make a \"pen theory\" unavoidable. Maybe it's just a matter
    of starting the thinning closer in - perhaps I made what should be an \"invisible\"
    optical adjustment at too large a scale.\r\n\r\nConnecting with your previous
    comment, would a pen theory dictate the terminals? (Which I'd suppose would mean
    felt-tip = round?)\r\n\r\nFrom the start I've wanted this font to have a crispness
    - to read as something more sturdy than a scanned handwriting font.\r\n\r\nRe:
    caps, would you suggest I'd have to add the cursive bumps and loops to the majuscules
    if they are to fit in with the minuscules? I didn't find that very satisfactory
    in my sketching. (In fact, that exercise was a real lesson for me in just how
    different in character the Roman caps and Roman lowercase are.)\r\n\r\nHere's
    my newer, restructured 'a' (in \"aardvarks\"):\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/loopynewa_4759.gif]"
  created: '2008-10-25 16:46:30'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "before altering flat terminals:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/without_4178.gif]\r\n\r\nafter:
    \r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/withterms_4839.gif]"
  created: '2008-10-26 15:55:41'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Latest pdf on first post shows the status as of today - lowercase are pretty
    close to where I want them; caps show a first pass at trying to add "written"
    qualities while retaining the formality. A work in progress.
  created: '2008-11-10 14:53:29'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_4190.gif]'
  created: '2008-12-08 22:24:04'
- author:
    name: Qassim
    picture: 112950
  body: ":)\r\nA beautiful childish \r\n"
  created: '2008-12-20 15:46:52'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "New pdf on first post (loopysample4.pdf) shows status as of today. I've started
    some of the kerning now. Which glyphs need rethinking? Does the leg of the 'R'
    stink? Are the crossbars of AEFH too gimmicky? Any color balance problems jump
    out? Other suggestions? \r\n\r\nWithout much reason other than the challenge,
    I've made oldstyle, monowidth figures for this. (I'm still very dissatisfied with
    the '1'.) What would be the most useful kinds of figures in a font like this? "
  created: '2008-12-26 17:39:39'
- author:
    name: wierdw123
  body: "I love the font. It really reminds me of handwriting, only more polished.
    The only things that really jump out at me for now are the masculine and feminine
    ordinal indicators (\xAA and \xBA). Also, the 'tt' ligature seems somewhat wide.\r\n\r\nAs
    for the R and AEFH, I think that the leg of the R sticks out a little too far,
    but I like the crossbars on the A E F and H. The oldstyle '1' also needs work--it
    looks like it's about to fall over to the left.\r\n\r\n<em>What would be the most
    useful kinds of figures in a font like this?</em> Well, I would think that alternatives
    would be a nice addition. Because (to me) it feels like a handwritten font, a
    single-story 'a' would be nice, as would other common variants seen in peoples'
    handwritings (a crossed 'z', a serifed 'I', etc.)"
  created: '2008-12-27 17:12:42'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Thanks a bunch for the compliment and ideas - very helpful.\r\n\r\nStill
    need to work on the R and 1.\r\n\r\nHere's some alterations including some alternates
    you suggested.\r\n\r\nHow do I code these into FontLab? I have added glyphs and
    named them \"a.alt\" etc., but how do I set it up with OpenType to give applications
    access to them?\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/alternates_6599.gif]"
  created: '2009-01-02 17:59:04'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Oops, I forgot the alternate t in that sample.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_6675.gif]"
  created: '2009-01-03 07:50:04'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "I think the top of the \uFB02 is too thick and the join with the l could
    be flat instead of round. Good work."
  created: '2009-01-05 00:13:07'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Yes, I realized after I posted that image that I had an extra f component
    overlapping on that ligature. \r\nHere's what it actually looks like, but maybe
    it still needs work.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_3535.gif]\r\nWould
    a smoother top be better?"
  created: '2009-01-05 01:42:15'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Posted an updated pdf up top (loopysample5.pdf).\r\n\r\nI've been working
    on kerning and starting to develop small caps, but I'm still very eager to hear
    feedback on the letterforms before I get too much further. \r\n"
  created: '2009-01-16 23:27:32'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Craig,\r\n\r\nJust butting in \u2013 you know to take my comments with a
    <em>rock</em> of salt!\r\n\r\nThis is much fun to look at, and quite likable (and
    interesting to see \r\nhow the \"handwritten\" flavor is oozing into lots of tiny
    details).\r\n\r\nA few semi-random impressions:\r\n\r\nIn the caps, the \"T\"
    feels a bit wide.\r\n\r\nHave you tried a \"W\" with no crossing strokes and a
    lowered apex?\r\n\r\nI'd consider softening / taking back the\u2014quite acute\u2014angle
    in the join of the alternate \"g\". I like the idea; but it may be trying too
    hard to make a point. \r\n\r\nI know it's intentional (and probably also hard
    to do otherwise), but I'm somewhat put off by the contrast between the caps and
    the minuscules. The caps feel classical, almost \"stately\" in their proportions,
    whereas the lowercase is a lot more playful.\r\n\r\nOn a detail level, how about
    playing with the tail of the \"Q\" a bit? \r\n(And possibly, the leg of the \"R\"?)\r\nAlso,
    the bottom-right of the \"G\" feels stiff in context of the whole alphabet.\r\n\r\nOr
    it may help to think not from the stroke, but the overall proportion, to make
    the caps a tad less \"classical\" and more \"casual\". (While your minuscules
    have a strong hand-written feel, I don't know anyone who writes their caps with
    classical Roman proportions.)\r\n\r\nI'll be curious to see how this goes on.&nbsp;&nbsp;:-)"
  created: '2009-01-17 03:05:06'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">How do I code these into FontLab? I have added glyphs and named them \u201Ca.alt\u201D
    etc., but how do I set it up with OpenType to give applications access to them?\r\n\r\nYou'll
    need to use a Stylistic Set.\r\nOpen the Opentype panel and click on the + at
    the bottom.\r\nYou'll get a box with the words 'feature xxxx {'\r\n\r\nThe next
    line says 'sub by ;'\r\nYou need to put in the substitutions you want in there.
    For example to substitute a with a.alt it should read 'sub a by a.alt;'\r\nIf
    you want to add more substitutions, simply repeat the line below with the next
    letter you want substituted.\r\n\r\nThe last line needs to close the ss01 tag
    so again replace the xxxx with ss01.\r\n\r\nThen click on the compile button.
    (looks like pages)\r\n\r\nOn the preview panel, you can now try your Opentype
    out by going to the Opentype features tab and selecting ss01.\r\n\r\nWell, that's
    the way I've done it and it seems to work. Check the FL manual though, as I'm
    a beginner too :)\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-17 09:22:18'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "@altaira\r\nThat's so helpful, thanks!\r\nI've added a W with lowered vertex,
    made the original high one the W.alt and trashed the W with overlapping strokes,
    which was just silly in retrospect.\r\nI softened the angle in the g.alt. I brought
    back that original g when I got excited about adding stylistic alternates, but
    I never updated it with how the rest of the font had evolved, so thanks for catching
    that. I think it still needs work.\r\nI changed Q, R, and G as you suggested,
    and threw in K, too. Better?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_5645.gif]\r\nLastly
    and most importantly, thanks for the additional nudge to abandon the classical
    proportions conceit for the caps. I've been banging my head against the wall trying
    to \"casualize\" the caps through strokes and details, but it makes sense at least
    to try altering the proportions. I'll try that out and see what happens.\r\n\r\n@Bendy\r\nThanks,
    that's helpful. Do I want the tag to be ss01 or salt? Is ss01 (etc.) used in cases
    where there's more than one alternate? (Part of my difficulty in figuring this
    out is that I don't have InDesign or the like to see how these work in layout
    applications.)"
  created: '2009-01-17 19:06:45'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture1_5058.gif] Same preview smaller.'
  created: '2009-01-17 19:09:11'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CLASSICAL_4294.GIF]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/unclassical_4165.gif]\r\n\r\nI
    narrowed CDGNOQT and broadened BEFKLPS. Better?"
  created: '2009-01-17 20:41:54'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Forgot to show off the revised Q tail:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Q_6602.gif]"
  created: '2009-01-17 20:58:43'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I think that depends if you want all the alternates accessible at once (salt)
    or to create different stylistic sets to switch on and off different alternates
    in groups(ss01).\r\n\r\nYou should also put in the {} the name of the feature
    in real words, so for example:\r\n\r\n<cite>feature ss01 { # Stylistic Set 1</cite>
    \r\nas the first line\r\n\r\nI've only learned from opening up other people's
    fonts and seeing how they've done it...probably a fairly good way to learn but
    means I'm not 100% sure; hopefully others can help."
  created: '2009-01-18 13:54:29'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"Better?\"</em>\r\nI like the changes you've made. But do you?  :-)\r\n\r\nNot
    sure about the spur on the \"G\". I'd possibly try something like what I did \r\nto
    the \"b\" in my font if you remember; just raise the join off the baseline. \r\nBut
    that may just be me. :-)\r\n\r\nFWIW, if I was you (and if you're not doing this
    already), I'd print out a ton \r\nof glyph samples of everything you have (outlines
    filled in, no nodes showing), \r\nstick them up on a large empty wall (maybe shuffle
    them into different combinations from time to time), and just look at them whenever
    you happen \r\nto pass by. For me, that seems to help for \"spontaneously\" spotting
    things \r\nthat may not be quite cogent yet. & possibly, think some more about
    the concept \r\nand how it can \"ooze down\" into the details (for one thing,
    if you're trying \r\nto make the caps more casual, I'd also go with less exact/circular
    rounds in the \r\n\"O\", \"G\" etc.).\r\nAnd of course: add salt to everything
    I'm saying.\r\n\r\nI like the new \"Q\", but keep wondering if more can not be
    tried/done with that tail\u2026 Maybe have it grow out of the curve with sort
    of an overlap like you have in the bottom of the lowercase \"n\", \"a\" et al.?
    Though that might get too cute.\r\n\r\nPlay around :-)"
  created: '2009-01-18 20:22:00'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Thanks again, Nina.\r\n\r\nI've made some printouts and will look through
    them. Already I've seen an idea for the concept \"oozing down\" to the details
    - making  suggestions of a loop in the middle of B and R (like the K already had).
    They are pictured below. \r\n\r\nI've also played with the Q some more. I like
    the idea of the tail coming out of a loop from the right side. Below is the result
    - I like it but I wonder if that big black part at the bottom will be too spotty
    in text. I experimented with disconnecting the left side at the bottom (like a
    cursive form of Q, \"2-like\") but couldn't get a solid looking letter out of
    it.\r\n\r\nI also experimented with a much loopier G but that got cartoonish rather
    quickly. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_4823.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-20 21:49:03'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Quick QUIZ: any preferences on these different Q's?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_4298.gif]"
  created: '2009-01-21 20:46:25'
- author:
    name: bemerx25
    picture: 112539
  body: '#3 or #4 are more appealing to my eye. And I think #3 is stronger in that
    the "Q" circle is completed.'
  created: '2009-01-21 21:20:39'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Oh, nice \"Q\"s. #4 reminds me an awful lot of Bree, but maybe that's just
    me. \r\nI like Bree, I'm just not sure this matches your font; #3 or especially
    #2 might jive with your typeface better, though I don't know if that #2 wouldn't
    clog in text. Maybe with a bit less overlap it might work better? (Kind of like
    in \"B\", \"R\", \"n\", where you didn't completely double the weight at the overlap?)\r\n\r\n*adding
    salt as usual* :-)"
  created: '2009-01-21 23:08:23'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Hmm, if I let the other end of the tail drop that might work. How's this
    (at the bottom)? \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_3468.gif]\r\n\r\nI'm
    pretty sure that's better than the one above it; is it better than #3 from above?"
  created: '2009-01-21 23:50:28'
- author:
    name: bemerx25
    picture: 112539
  body: 'I like #2 in this last one - but I''m not sure if it bests #3 of the previous
    - because at smaller sizes the "bump" of the tail (at the top where it connects
    to the bowel of the q) may look like an imperfection in the font, thus why I think
    the loop would help mitigate this. But...like I said, #2 in this last one looks
    pretty good too.'
  created: '2009-01-22 14:52:36'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "(Can't help commenting on this, even if I'm not trying to climb too high
    on that \"top posters\" chart \u2026 :-| )\r\n\r\nI think this is really nice
    with the dropping tail! Would need to see it in context \r\nto fully judge how
    it fits in, but it seems to be much in keeping with the character \r\nof your
    font. (Though I'd be curious to see how the \"bumps\" behave at text sizes, too.)"
  created: '2009-01-22 14:55:40'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Ongoing thanks for the help on this, Ben and Nina. Here's the Q finalists
    with a little more context:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_5693.gif]"
  created: '2009-01-22 15:37:07'
- author:
    name: bemerx25
    picture: 112539
  body: 'Hmm. It looks like both would work well. The loopless Q doesn''t appear "flawed"
    like I feared. I kind of like the casual quirkiness that the looped Q provides
    but either approach works well. Perhaps include a stylistic alternate? Nice work
    - it kind of reminds me of Tekton (don''t worry - it''s quite different! - I mean
    the casual feeling is similar). '
  created: '2009-01-22 16:00:19'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Posted an updated pdf up top showing status as of today. Since the last one
    I've added lots of OpenType features. There are now four sets of figures (combos
    of lining/oldstyle and tabular/proportional). I'm thinking about having the f
    ligatures standard and the t ligatures (tt, ti) discretionary.\r\n\r\nLoopless
    Q above will be standard, with looped Q as an alternate. Added a nondescending
    J as an alternate, some lining versions of currency marks, and generally tweaked
    a huge number of glyphs. "
  created: '2009-01-24 21:31:49'
- author:
    name: wierdw123
  body: "Quickly, before I go to bed, there are two things I noticed when I looked
    briefly at the new PDF:\r\n1. Your '\xE6' still has the tail of the 'a' included
    in the glyph. Now, this is fairly unorthodox, and it begs the question: was it
    intentional? I'm not exactly sure how this character is normally written by hand,
    but I was under the impression that it is composed of one stroke.\r\n2. The slashes
    on '\xD8' and '\xF8' are at different angles, which drew my eye.\r\n\r\nBesides
    that, I love how this font is turning out. Good job!"
  created: '2009-01-29 04:19:14'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Both unintentional mistakes, born of my ignorance. I'll make both corrections.
    Thanks for catching those, and thanks for the compliment!
  created: '2009-01-29 14:13:17'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/oslashae_5191.gif]\r\n\r\nThat ae is
    a pretty fun glyph to design when you pay some attention to it!"
  created: '2009-01-29 18:11:45'
- author:
    name: bemerx25
    picture: 112539
  body: But is the "a"'s bowel of the "ae" too different from the standard "a"? Not
    saying it is but it is something to consider.
  created: '2009-01-29 18:19:15'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Yes, maybe I got carried away with the loops. Is this better?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/redoae_6230.gif]"
  created: '2009-01-29 19:16:04'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "I prefer the first \xE6 to the second. It seems more natural, even with the
    divergence from a."
  created: '2009-01-29 20:21:05'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Hmm... here's some more evidence for consideration.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_3437.gif]"
  created: '2009-01-29 21:59:39'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "What's FN? :-)\r\n\r\nThis is funky. Seen in context like this, the second
    (\"a-like\") version looks better to me, more balanced; in the first (upper) version
    the \"a\" part of the \"ae\" looks kind of\u2026 flattened. On the other hand,
    seen close up the \"a-like\" version looks pretty weird, as the crossbars of the
    \"a\" and the \"e\" don't connect\u2026 hm.\r\nHave you checked the \"ae\" glyph
    in other fonts where the top curve of the bowl of the \"a\" joins the stem in
    a downwards curve? I can't think of one off the top of my head&nbsp;&nbsp;:-|\r\n\r\nBoth
    of the \"ae\"s look a bit cloggy in the middle. But I guess that's the kind of
    stuff that's hard/impossible to judge from a screengrab."
  created: '2009-01-29 22:54:59'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: The difference is much less at smaller sizes, but I wonder if the second variant
    is a tad too dark.
  created: '2009-01-29 23:00:22'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>Have you checked the \u201Cae\u201D glyph in other fonts where the top
    curve of the bowl of the \u201Ca\u201D joins the stem in a downwards curve?</em>\r\n\r\nProxima
    Nova:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/proximanova_4694.gif]\r\n\r\nWilke:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/wilke2_4711.gif]"
  created: '2009-01-29 23:16:08'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: 'But neither of those is "cursive-flavor"ed. '
  created: '2009-01-30 00:31:42'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "That's true. Here's the versions from the fonts others have identified as
    the closest in style to this one: Auto 3 Italic, Flora, and Tekton.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/auto3_3928.gif][img:sites/default/files/old-images/flora_5208.gif][img:sites/default/files/old-images/tekton_4612.gif]\r\n\r\nWhat
    if I raise the e's crossbar so it's no longer a near miss?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_4785.gif]\r\n\r\nOr
    should I just work on making the curves of the continuous-crossbar version more
    pleasing?\r\n\r\n@altaira: FN I think is the UN in Danish. I thought that text
    would be familiar to you!"
  created: '2009-01-30 02:24:21'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Oh, <em>that</em> text. Yeah, I haven't been dealing with it in anything
    but (lowercased) English yet :-)\r\n\r\nI can't be of much help with the \"\xE6\"
    I'm afraid (don't we have any Danes around?), though I'm thinking that on a broader
    scale, this decision may come down to \r\nhow closely you want to adhere to a
    hand-written (hand-writeable) model, which would probably favor the continuous
    stroke; though you already seem to be subtly departing from that in places in
    search of a more refined type \xE6sthetic (couldn't resist that one!), like in
    the terminals and, not least, probably the shape of the \r\nlc \"a\" itself."
  created: '2009-01-30 11:44:22'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/aes_4938.gif]\r\n1 is the first continuous
    crossbar version.\r\n2 is the first discontinuous version.\r\n3 is 2 with the
    e crossbar raised to avoid the near miss.\r\n4 is a new tweaked update of 3."
  created: '2009-01-30 16:13:51'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Oops, that should say "4 is a new tweaked update of 1."
  created: '2009-01-30 18:06:59'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/uyuy_3717.gif]\r\n\r\nAnd while I'm soliciting
    advice...\r\n\r\nAbove is (1) the original u and y and (2) a revised version with
    the round hitting the stem lower. It looks more normal but does it lose something
    in the process? Below smaller.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/uyuysmample_6135.gif]"
  created: '2009-01-30 21:55:52'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "For the \xE6, I prefer 4. For the u and y, I like the second variant, because
    it gives a more-open, and in my opinion better, counter. "
  created: '2009-01-31 00:40:28'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'Thanks for the input Steve. I think I''d side the same way on both questions.
    I''ve updated the pdf with these and other tweaks (loopysample7.pdf). '
  created: '2009-01-31 21:27:58'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I've posted the latest at the top (loopysample8.pdf), which includes small
    caps, some additional ligatures, and other refinements. As always I welcome all
    feedback.
  created: '2009-02-12 21:07:50'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "To me, the y looks better with the higher join, perhaps because of the tail
    already giving weight below, whilst the u looks better with the low join...but
    do you want them to be identical or just harmonise? Also, do you want to change
    the h, m, n joins to match?\r\n\r\nRegarding the \xE6, I prefer 4 but it's not
    a character I am terribly familiar with. What we need is a Dane, Norwegian or
    Icelander! I don't have any cursive examples.\r\n\r\nI think your quotes/comma
    could descend a bit longer and be less angled.\r\n\r\nThe \xA3 could have a lower
    crossbar and possibly a non-vertical stem (tilt it to the right?)"
  created: '2009-02-12 22:45:52'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Thanks for the good insights, Bendy.\r\n\r\nBelow see the changes I made.
    The one marked \"new\" has:\r\n - the higher join of the y but lower of the u.
    You're right that they don't have to match, and that y's tail in fact encourages
    different treatments. The high join may yet be too high; I may look for a compromise
    between these y's. As for the h/m/n, no, I don't wanna change them! I think that
    way up the branching works better.\r\n- longer quotes and commas\r\n- a much more
    felicitous pound sign - thanks for calling that out for me.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_4363.gif]"
  created: '2009-02-14 02:37:01'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Felicitous! Indeed! Looking good :)\r\n\r\nYou've thinned the join on the
    y and that looks good, though you could be right about bringing the join down
    a bit. Think the u join needs a bit of thinning too? \r\n\r\nThe square brackets
    might look a bit light?\r\n\r\nI wonder if the form of the o could be a bit stronger,
    as in making the beziers more superelliptical (just a bit though)"
  created: '2009-02-14 11:45:58'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>You\u2019ve thinned the join on the y and that looks good, though you
    could be right about bringing the join down a bit. Think the u join needs a bit
    of thinning too?</em>\r\n\r\nI'll look at that u.\r\n\r\n<em>The square brackets
    might look a bit light?</em>\r\n\r\nOriginally I had all brackets (square, parentheses,
    curly) about the same stroke width as the letters. I recently lightened them but
    maybe that was a mistake. \r\n\r\n<em>I wonder if the form of the o could be a
    bit stronger, as in making the beziers more superelliptical (just a bit though)</em>\r\n\r\nCan
    you clarify \"superelliptical\"? Do you mean more square? (Diagrams on the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Superellipse|Wikipedia
    page]] show both diamond- and square-like shapes)."
  created: '2009-02-14 17:27:20'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Sorry, this is the kind of shape I'm imagining. Yours won't need to be this
    pronounced:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/superelliptical_5874.jpg]\r\nThe
    grey shape is an ellipse; the control points on the contour pull it further than
    an ellipse.\r\n\r\nI never heard of a squircle before!"
  created: '2009-02-14 18:25:29'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_5627.gif]\r\n\r\n(2) shows the
    new, more squircular 'o', plus similar adjustments to the 'e'."
  created: '2009-02-14 19:02:55'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "That's exactly what I meant :)\r\n\r\nDo you prefer 1 or 2?\r\n\r\nI'm not
    sure the e needs the same treatment, as the top version is a very pleasant shape."
  created: '2009-02-14 19:14:09'
- author:
    name: Marcelo Soler
    picture: 115167
  body: "Craig,\r\nI like the version 2 the most, e included.\r\nI think the whole
    idea is very pleasant, and need just some minor-little adjustments, matter of
    time.\r\nI don't know why (to my eyes) it looks nicest when renderd as a piece
    of text than considered character by character in detail.\r\nGood!\r\n\r\n<strong>MarS</strong>"
  created: '2009-02-14 20:33:08'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I'm a few posts late, but just wanted to say that pound sign looks great.
    And I must say I love the quotes, too. Really nice work.\r\nI tend to agree with
    Marcelo about the \"o\" and \"e\"."
  created: '2009-02-14 20:39:48'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: 'Just to throw a monkeywrench into the works, I like the superelliptical o,
    but the original e. I think the difference gives text more vibrancy. '
  created: '2009-02-14 21:14:10'
- author:
    name: cschroeppel
    picture: 116864
  body: 'As for the ae ligature, i''d suggest to stick with version #2. It shouldn''t
    be symmetrical, or nearly symmetrical, and it''s not a new letter, so the a and
    the e should keep as much of their original characteristics as possible.'
  created: '2009-02-15 17:08:12'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Removed the base serif from the proportional ones; changed the curve on the
    two; most dramatically changed the base of 2 and z to a tilde-like curve. Too
    much?\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/2z_6005.gif]\r\n\r\n(Also
    in this shot: an e that splits the difference between the original and the superelliptical
    revision above.)"
  created: '2009-02-17 20:59:33'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I like the changes. You've made the 'hat' of the 1 shorter too. The 2 is
    much improved too.\r\nI'm wondering if the curves on the 2 and z are a bit strong;
    the base of the \xA3 has a perfect amount of curviness. My concern is that such
    a pronounced curve is too detailed/delicate for a font based on quick pen strokes,
    which is why the straighter section in the middle of the 2 works better than the
    previous version, to my eye.\r\nI'm a fan of the narrow z, so this seems perhaps
    too wide, but I think that's a personal preference.\r\nCan you post a pic of the
    three versions of e big enough to see the detail? I'd consider keeping the original
    e, and agree with the 'monkeywrench' comment above...in handwriting we tend to
    draw e and o in different ways, with different start points, so although they're
    both basically ellipses, I don't feel they need to match...\r\n\r\nI'm enjoying
    this font."
  created: '2009-02-17 21:21:24'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I think you're right about the curves being too dramatic - in fact I had
    tried to iron them out but was struggling to make it look nice. It's a great idea
    to go to the base of \xA3 for inspiration, as I was happy with the way that turned
    out. I'll try that.\r\n\r\nHere's the 'e's:\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_5428.gif]\r\n\r\nLeft:
    original\r\nCenter: change I made when making the 'o' more superelliptical\r\nRight:
    compromise between the previous two\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-17 21:59:37'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: I think I like the right hand one after all :)
  created: '2009-02-17 23:01:53'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "I agree that the right e is the right e. :-)\r\n\r\nAnd I like the changes
    to the numerals and z."
  created: '2009-02-17 23:46:56'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/2sbig_6478.gif][img:sites/default/files/old-images/2ssmall_4480.gif]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/zs_4888.gif]\r\n\r\nSome
    2s and zs:\r\nLeft: ugly original\r\nMiddle: base built on tilde shape\r\nRight:
    base built on pound shape\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-19 04:58:51'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: I think the pound base works really well on both the 2 and the z. Is it worth
    trying the 2 with an interpolated diagonal stroke, between the curvy and straight
    versions?
  created: '2009-02-19 11:27:13'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Like this?\r\nLeft: ugly original\r\nRight: revised, with straighter diagonal\r\nCenter:
    diagonal part is split between the two\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_5362.gif]\r\n\r\nIs
    the right '2' a little too sloppy and quick for this font? I do think that its
    more acute approach works better with the base."
  created: '2009-02-19 14:29:07'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: The top of the right 2 is cramped. I think the curves of the middle one work
    best.
  created: '2009-02-19 14:53:58'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture1_6384.gif]\r\n\r\nOkay, here's
    one more option.\r\n\r\nLeft is the cramped-top 2.\r\nCenter is the 2 that interpolated
    between the cramped-top and the original 2.\r\nRight is a new 2 that opens the
    top curve while retaining more of an acute diagonal at the bottom.\r\n\r\nSame
    twos smaller:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/smaller_4133.gif]"
  created: '2009-02-19 17:14:07'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: 'The right one wins, but the center isn''t bad, especially at smaller sizes. '
  created: '2009-02-19 18:06:03'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Right one gets my vote too. I agree with your reasoning for it, and it looks
    good.\r\n\r\nI find 2 one of the hardest shapes to get right. All that space,
    with a curve that kind of looks like a line too, then figuring out what angle
    the heavy stroke falls. :/\r\n\r\nJust looked back at the pdf. I think 4 would
    benefit from a rework as well. The crossbar is quite high and the counter looks
    small. What if the diagonal stroke was convex instead?"
  created: '2009-02-19 20:28:48'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "O, nice. I like the center one (just to complicate matters ;-) ), but the
    right one looks good too (a tad more top-heavy maybe? The center one looks a bit
    more balanced to me \u2013 then again, I'm still very far away from making numerals,
    you know).\r\n\r\nDoes that bottom look a bit thin though, next to the \"3\",
    or is the \"3\" a bit heavy? I'm basing this on the smaller sample you posted
    so it might just be some sort of rasterization problem."
  created: '2009-02-19 20:32:57'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "While I'm on figures, any opinions on these nines?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_4226.gif]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/picture1_5501.gif]\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-19 20:38:18'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "The bottom one reads as a raised \"q\" to me. ;-)\r\nSeriously: I do nines
    like this in handwriting, but I personally think it looks odd in a (your) font,
    where I'd expect a stronger connection to the \"6\".\r\n\r\nNeed\u2026to\u2026sign\u2026off\u2026and\u2026work\u2026
    argh."
  created: '2009-02-19 20:42:20'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Why oh why didn't I perfect these figures before I generated tabular versions,
    and lining versions, and tabular lining versions, and small caps versions, and
    superior versions, and fractions... X-P\r\n\r\n@altaira: you're right, fixing
    the weight on that 3 is on my list. And speaking of boneheaded me, I just spent
    half an hour fussing with a 'd' to get it to look like a '9', without even thinking
    of the 'q' which is already there!\r\n\r\n@Bendy: I'm finding all the figures
    really tough, and '2' is among the toughest. I'm glad to feel like I'm making
    progress on this. I'll look at '4' again.\r\n\r\nI can't thank you guys enough
    for your eyes and opinions on this!\r\n\r\nFontLab just crashed so I think that's
    a sign to get back to my other work.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-19 21:05:56'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">FontLab just crashed so I think that\u2019s a sign to get back to my other
    work.\r\n\r\nOh, that's not fun...\r\n\r\n>While I\u2019m on figures, any opinions
    on these nines?\r\n\r\nI do like the playful unsophisticated straight-back 9 and
    it does fit the handwriting premise of this font. However, my feeling is that
    it's a bit clumsy. I think a font can afford to have more harmony than handwriting
    and look more deliberate and settled. Stick with the curvy one.\r\n\r\nYou could
    include the q/d style one as an alternate?\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-19 21:56:01'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "A couple of 4s (left is as before):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture2_4199.gif]"
  created: '2009-02-19 23:45:32'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Ooh, the second one is sexy.\r\nMight be a case in point for the \"2\" with
    the more curved diagonal too (the one you had in the center, above)? Or not?"
  created: '2009-02-19 23:54:53'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Hmmm, I think Nina could be right. I love that new 4!
  created: '2009-02-20 00:21:48'
- author:
    name: bemerx25
    picture: 112539
  body: I like that curve in the new 4 as well! Very nice!
  created: '2009-02-20 02:46:29'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Wow, I wasn't sure that four was headed in the right direction, but sounds
    like consensus likes it!\r\n\r\nA month ago Nina suggested removing the spur from
    G. I've gone back to that idea and welcome input:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Gs_5098.gif]\r\n\r\n(Side
    note: added a leetle more curve in the diagonal of the 2 shown here.)"
  created: '2009-02-20 14:29:46'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "I personally like the spur on the G, and feel it contributes to the cursive
    flavor. The G without the spur is beautiful, but it seems more abstracted to me,
    and less hand-written. (I don't see how I could slow my pen down to make such
    a precise turn, and if I could, then why the overdraws on the lower-case letters.)\r\n\r\nOne
    thing that does catch my eye, however, is the transition from the lower curve
    to the spine of the S. It looks somehow off. Maybe if the spine were a slight
    tiny teeny leetle bit more horizontal (by raising the right end), it might look
    better. "
  created: '2009-02-20 15:49:18'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Makes sense. \r\n\r\nGood spot on the S curves. I've fiddled and I think
    this (2) is much improved. Do I need to raise the lower end of the S or is it
    okay where it is? I also smoothed out the curves of s. Does it look too 'wound
    up'?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ssss_5271.gif]"
  created: '2009-02-20 16:37:06'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: I agree the spurless G is too precise for this font. The new S is really attractive.
    But I think some of these adjustments are starting to move away from the handwriting
    premise and making the script more formal and refined, more careful and slower
    writing rather than quick style which gave rise to the overlapping loops. I think
    you may need to make a choice. You have to trade off individual letters looking
    super with the whole harmony between the characters looking super. Hope I'm being
    helpful and not annoying :)
  created: '2009-02-20 16:46:11'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"The G without the spur is beautiful, but it seems more abstracted to
    me, and less hand-written.\"</em>\r\nActually seeing this \"in action\" I have
    to agree. :-/  Sorry bout that!"
  created: '2009-02-20 17:55:22'
- author:
    name: SebastianWolf
  body: "<em>This font's really attractive, I love it.</em>\r\n\r\nI've noticed that
    the characters with ascenders and descenders can look slightly darker than other
    characters. This is more noticeable at small sizes, and could even just be due
    to antialiasing rules. \r\nA good example would be an 'i' next to a 'g'.\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-20 23:44:18'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "It's only when you see things 'in action' that you can really tell whether
    they work or not.\r\nCraig, do you think the new 4 fits better with the other
    numerals? I think the counterspace is much more in tune with the letterspacing.\r\nDo
    you think 7 might be a bit wide?\r\nCan you post a new pdf? I wonder whether some
    characters might be still a few units too wide (a.alt, c, g, s and v)?\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-21 01:04:01'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "@SebastianWolf: thanks for the compliment and feedback. I'll look at those
    weights of ascenders and descenders. \r\n\r\n@Bendy: This is all good advice.
    I do think the 4 is a better fit and I'm happy with it; I just never dreamed anyone
    would consider it sexy or loveable!\r\n\r\nI've posted another pdf (loopysample9.pdf)
    in the first post with some of these recent changes that are going to stick. Also,
    here's what those glyphs you mentioned might be wide would look like a little
    thinner (on the right in each pair). This is just quick and dirty narrowing to
    help determine need. (These changes are not reflected in the pdf.)\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/wide_3563.gif]"
  created: '2009-02-21 05:04:55'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "My own opinions:\r\nNarrowing improves the 7, v, a, and g (Though I might
    have narrowed too much with the 7).\r\nI'm not as certain on c and s."
  created: '2009-02-23 15:47:43'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Yup, I'd say the same. S is definitely nice wider, unless the spine can go
    a little steeper. Perhaps you could try a halfway c (between wider and narrower)?\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-23 16:06:23'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: I think the wider c is better, as is the s, but the others are nicer narrow.
    The 7 isn't too narrow in my opinion.
  created: '2009-02-23 16:57:19'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Okay, having narrowed a.salt and g, I better make sure the other ball-and-stick
    letters don't now need parallel revisions.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_5789.gif]\r\n\r\n(pic
    shows new a.salt and g)\r\n\r\nI don't actually think they do - maybe 'q'?"
  created: '2009-02-23 21:08:33'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: q might stand it. (And did we do a variant with a flick to the right on the
    tail?)
  created: '2009-02-23 21:14:14'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>(And did we do a variant with a flick to the right on the tail?)</em>\r\n\r\nI
    don't think I did, did you?\r\n\r\nBut seriously, I just was looking with chagrin
    at that tail in that sample. I just changed it from a flattened terminal (like
    the bottom 'l', for example) to a curved one (like the top of 'l'), but it still
    looks awfully dumb all of the sudden. I could experiment with a flick. Do you
    have any ready examples in mind? (The ascender of 'b' isn't so bad, right?) "
  created: '2009-02-23 21:40:34'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: I thought of it when I made several q's to see how wide/narrow I made mine,
    but I tended always to curve the tail to the right. It's usually less than half
    as wide as the tail of the j, but obviously facing the other direction.
  created: '2009-02-23 21:53:04'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_4182.gif]\r\n\r\nquite = old\r\nfrequent
    = \"doubling up\" of descender\r\nsequels = flick based on 'j'\r\n\r\nsame, smaller:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/smaller_5700.gif]"
  created: '2009-02-23 22:14:33'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Craig, I personally feel that curve on the descender of your \"q\" is too
    soft. I think it should be more of a flick than a curve. (Remember the salt.)\r\n\r\nRe:
    examples, for some reason I feel like listing some semi-randomly picked, right-facing
    \"q\" descenders (I've become quite a fan of these!).\r\n\r\nHandwriting/calligraphic
    fonts with right-\"flicking\" \"q\" descenders:\r\n<a href=\"http://www.veer.com/products/typedetail.aspx?image=ADT0003464\">Sanvito
    Pro</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/agfa/kallos-itc/\">Kallos ITC</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/sudtipos/mama-script/\">Mama Script</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.fonts.com/DE/detail.htm?pid=414580\">Tekton Pro</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.ascendercorp.com/font/lucida-calligraphy/\">Lucida
    Calligraphy</a> / <a href=\"http://www.ascendercorp.com/font/lucida-handwriting/\">Lucida
    Handwriting</a> / More subtle: <a href=\"http://www.ascenderfonts.com/font/lucida-casual-regular.aspx\">Lucida
    Casual</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/bradley-hand-itc/\">ITC
    Bradley Hand</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.linotype.com/1220/mediciscript-family.html\">Medici
    Script</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/fontfont/ff_childs_play/\">FF
    Child's Hand</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/cascade-script/\">Cascade
    Script</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/imageclub/lemonade/\">Lemonade
    ICG</a>\r\n\r\nOther fonts: <a href=\"http://www.linotype.com/580/itcberkeleyoldstyle-family.html\">ITC
    Berkeley</a>, <a href=\"http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/urw/hiroshige/\">Hiroshige</a>,
    <a href=\"http://www.typofonderie.com/alphabets/view/ParisinePlusPTFClair/\">Parisine
    Plus</a>; Patria\r\n\r\n\r\nSome historically-influenced examples: \r\n<a href=\"http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/carolina/\">Carolina</a>,
    based on the Carolingian Minuscule; <a href=\"http://www.linotype.com/59/arnoldboecklin-family.html\">Arnold
    Boecklin</a>; <a href=\"http://www.linotype.com/70/auriol-family.html\">Auriol</a>\r\n\r\nI
    was going to post some actual historical samples, but I need to make a phone call
    first. :->"
  created: '2009-02-23 22:45:16'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Hm\u2026 how about something between #4 and #5 \u2013 maybe not angular,
    but kind of a little curve whose \"weight\"/extremum is heavily on the left?\r\nAlternately,
    maybe something like #2 could work if you keep the model of your \"n\" &c. in
    mind?"
  created: '2009-02-23 23:38:31'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Yeah, some of my first sketches were more upward flicks, like #2 and #4 here:
    [img:sites/default/files/old-images/qs_6404.gif]\r\nBut they weren't working to
    my eye. Basically, I felt like the short stroke became too much of a distracting
    detail - at a different level of detail than most of the rest of the font, almost
    like a rogue serif in a sans font. (I would in fact call many or most of the q-descender-flick
    examples you cited \"serifs\".)\r\n\r\nDid I dismiss promising possibilities prematurely?
    Wouldn't be the first time. Should I keep working on #4?"
  created: '2009-02-23 23:42:03'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: What about the third one but with the curvy ending on the inside (stroke completely
    flipped)? The dynamic of the stroke is leading back into the bowl and I think
    the movement should be the other way.
  created: '2009-02-23 23:44:28'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: '4 and 5 are definitely the ones to develop. 5 in fact looks very much like
    my normal q when I print (actually the stem leans slightly, so the bottom of the
    stem is slightly under the bowl). '
  created: '2009-02-23 23:46:02'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "rough 'q' sketches\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/aquabig_5089.gif]\r\n\r\n4
    & 5 are as above.\r\n6 is the \"altaira variation\" and 7 the \"Bendy variation\"
    :-)\r\n\r\nSame thing smaller:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/aquasmall_6537.gif]"
  created: '2009-02-24 04:09:52'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: '6, definitely. Now try (just for kicks) moving the bottom just a hair to
    the left. '
  created: '2009-02-24 04:21:03'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I'm thinking 6 could work out fine; but I think I'd make that \"hook\" tighter
    and quite a bit smaller/shorter \u2013 it is quite dominant now. To me the \"optical
    size/importance\" of the hook looks better in 5, FWIW."
  created: '2009-02-24 06:17:44'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: 'I''d worry that if you made the hook in 6 tighter, it might fill in at text
    sizes. '
  created: '2009-02-24 14:52:25'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em> Now try (just for kicks) moving the bottom just a hair to the left.</em>\r\nDid
    you mean the whole descender, or the extremum at the bottom, or something else?\r\nHere's
    a couple of versions shortening that hook of number six, big and small:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/qsbig_5030.gif][img:sites/default/files/old-images/qssmall_5045.gif]"
  created: '2009-02-24 16:57:07'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "9 might work well. \r\n\r\nI meant to move the lower part of the tail, so
    it has an ever-so-slight NE/SW tilt. "
  created: '2009-02-24 18:34:09'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: It already does, but I could try pushing it further.
  created: '2009-02-24 18:51:53'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I find the flick of the q difficult to get right too. I don't think this'll
    be much help but it's more what I was intending to mean before...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/q_4466.jpg]"
  created: '2009-02-24 19:15:29'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'Ah yes, like #2 in my quququququ sample, only drawn well! '
  created: '2009-02-24 19:24:45'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: 'I think it''d need to be better drawn really though, as that''s quite a heavy
    bottom on it and probably needs some thinning. '
  created: '2009-02-24 19:30:51'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I think #9 might work well. The other thing I was thinking about (and tried
    to describe somewhere up there) is pretty much exactly what Ben posted above.
    \r\nThat looks pretty cool too (and takes up a structure you already have in there)."
  created: '2009-02-24 23:17:48'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bqslarge_6266.gif]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bqssmall_4382.gif]\r\n\r\nI
    think the cleaned up n-like tail (2B) is less attractive but perhaps more fitting
    with the alphabet than the small curl (9B) - BUT, at least as I've drawn it, it's
    no good at all at small sizes. Agree?"
  created: '2009-02-25 20:26:04'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: The eternal question of 2B or not 2B... It does sort of disappear when small,
    so I'd have to go with 9B.
  created: '2009-02-25 21:45:37'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I think I agree. 9B looks kinda funky large, but seems to work quite nicely
    smaller.\r\n\r\nEdit: 2B could also be mistaken for a somewhat strangely-shaped
    handwritten \"g\" with an anemic loop \u2013 at least around here."
  created: '2009-02-25 23:17:12'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Yup, needs to work at small sizes too. Go for 9B :)
  created: '2009-02-26 00:01:25'
- author:
    name: wierdw123
  body: "Well, after all this work, it'll be very exciting for this font to come out!
    Please keep us informed, eliason.\r\n\r\nAs for the <strong>q</strong>, I think
    that no matter the final design, it would be nice to have a tail-less version
    available to the user as an alternate.\r\n\r\nKeep up the good work!"
  created: '2009-02-26 02:29:55'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>As for the q, I think that no matter the final design, it would be nice
    to have a tail-less version available to the user as an alternate.</em>\r\n\r\nI'll
    do just that. Thanks!"
  created: '2009-02-26 15:00:08'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Lastest pdf up top (loopysample10.pdf) shows status as of today. I've made
    a ton of tweaks. Some of the more prominent (or at least the ones I can remember
    now) are:\r\n\r\n- Slimmed down some \"secondary\" strokes like bar, slash, the
    short strokes on currency symbols, diacritic slashes, etc.\r\n- Added a little
    more curve to some of the horizontals like top of T and Z, bottom of E and L,
    etc. \r\n- Knocked the vertical part of the fives off-vertical\r\n- Removed W.salt\r\n-
    made many of the dots (e.g. period, colon, bullet, tittle, umlaut) more (but not
    entirely) circular\r\n- redrew ear of g.salt\r\n- addressed some of the weight
    problems and wonky curves\r\n\r\nI also changed the hook of the f, and with that,
    much of the ligature setup. Instead of the old ligatures that had that f hook
    stretch to bridge with ensuing ascenders (fl, fb, etc.), I have designed an alternate
    f with a slightly shorter hook to go before those letters. The ligatures that
    connect with the crossbar (of f or t) are the only ones that remain, and are all
    discretionary."
  created: '2009-03-01 07:19:26'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "Here are my reactions to the latest PDF:\r\n\r\n1) Wow. This is looking nice!\r\n2)
    I like the f-ligatures, and I think they work well here.\r\n3) Now that I see
    it in context, I think the \xDF is too wide.\r\n4) The tabular 0 (both lining
    and hanging) is too wide.\r\n5) Looking at the French, I wonder if your apostrophe
    needs more curvature. \r\n6) There is no number 6."
  created: '2009-03-02 00:02:26'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Emi? Cute!\r\nAnd, welcome to the \"E-named fonts club\". :-)\r\n\r\nI printed
    this out, and tried looking at it as if I'd never seen the font before. And I
    must say, this is incredibly amiable and seems to be working very well indeed.
    I'll admit that I'm not usually a big fan of \"handwritten\" fonts, but I do like
    yours a lot! The tons of work you've put into this really show, as does the joy
    of making it.\r\n\r\nHere are some things that struck me:\r\n\r\nThere might be
    some weight issues with certain glyphs, but I can't be quite sure since I'm still
    battling my printer. Particularly, I'm wondering if the top of the \"8\" is too
    light (especially compared to the ampersand, which looks very nice); the small
    cap \"A\" in the Latin sample looks a bit dark and the tilde on the \"a\" in the
    Portuguese, very light. The percent sign seems rather light too. But like I said,
    that may or may not actually be in the font.\r\n\r\nI like the \"Q\" a *lot*.\r\n\r\nYour
    guillemets (both single and double) seem rather mechanical. I wonder if they could
    have more of that handwritten feel.\r\n\r\nI agree with Steve that the eszett
    feels too wide. I think it's especially the bottom part \u2013 it sorta looks
    too much like a truncated \"s\".\r\n\r\nLigatures and \"f\" alternates look great!\r\n\r\nI
    think the apostrophe is fine. \r\n\r\nThe accents look better, but I'm wondering
    if they're now tapering too much towards the thin end? They look really pointy,
    which isn't really something you have in the rest of the font. That makes them
    look a bit aggressive in context. \r\nBtw I think the circumflex could benefit
    from not being quite as flat, and it doesn't seem to share the contrast of the
    \"straight\" accents?\r\n\r\nThe asterisk is lovely.\r\n\r\nI'm quite excited
    about this. What a nice font."
  created: '2009-03-02 00:21:55'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Thanks guys; your encouragement means a lot to me, and your eyes for persisting
    problems are invaluable. I'll look at fixes for all of those issues. :-)
  created: '2009-03-02 06:52:52'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "And in the meantime, what do you think of a change along these lines to g
    and a.salt?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_5507.gif]\r\nLarger:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/aglarge_6154.gif]\r\n\r\n(As
    a special bonus that one shows my demechanicalized guillemots.)"
  created: '2009-03-02 20:03:32'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/doubles_6311.gif]\r\nAnd how's the width
    on this \xDF?\r\n(or should I abandon the snaky form and do more of a fold (like
    the 3) or even a loop (like the KBR)?)"
  created: '2009-03-02 20:09:31'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Your alternate a and g look delicious! Yum!\r\n\r\nBTW [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guillemot|Guillemot]]
    vs [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guillemets|Guillemet]]"
  created: '2009-03-02 20:41:17'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I've just noticed how well the caps work. Would it be too horrible to widen
    the W and pull the middle up slightly but not to the top? It looks a bit shrinky
    I think.\r\nThe lc of course looks great too!\r\nEmi looks really wicked in comparison
    to those other fonts and even against Myriad, which I very much admire. Good work!"
  created: '2009-03-02 20:52:36'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I like the new alternate \"a\" and \"g\" too. They look smoother without
    abandoning the premise of the font I think.\r\nBut the \"\xDF\" still looks a
    bit weird\u2026 too much bulging at the bottom to my eyes. :-/ \r\nI think the
    basic shape could work, but the proportions seem off."
  created: '2009-03-02 21:03:57'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Better? \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/doubles2_6477.gif]\r\nThese
    less-familiar glyphs are so hard for me to judge.\r\n\r\nI'll try the W, Ben.\r\n\r\n(LOL
    at myself for \"guillemots\")"
  created: '2009-03-02 22:29:48'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "The same new a.salt and g, with a little more context. \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/incontext_4499.gif]\r\nThe
    letters are more attractive, but does it work okay with the other letters well
    enough? Do the new a and g (and q - I changed it too) look like they're falling
    off at the upper corner? Does the stem coming up shy of the x-height make other
    things (like the stems of r and n) stick out more? "
  created: '2009-03-02 23:39:25'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: 'To be honest, I like the version with the stem coming up (i.e., the top version)
    better. '
  created: '2009-03-03 00:34:11'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Or there's this - an intersection like the revision, but back up at the x-height
    line:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_4926.gif]"
  created: '2009-03-03 16:53:04'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Same as 8:53 post, but with redrawn (less bubbly) and slightly narrower bowls:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bowls_6226.gif]"
  created: '2009-03-03 17:22:22'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: No, stick with the original or the first revision. You could be right about
    the NE corner though. It makes the shape look shorter than the others, so perhaps
    a bit more overshoot would do it? I don't prefer 3 and 4.
  created: '2009-03-03 19:10:42'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Still on the g and a.salt; 1, 2, and 4 are as above and 5 is new: is 5 any
    better, or should I stick with 1?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/badgerbig_3596.gif]\r\nSame,
    smaller:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/badgersmall_5583.gif]"
  created: '2009-03-05 04:37:31'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: In my opinion, 2 has very nice forms of a and g, but they perhaps don't quite
    fit so perfectly as the number 1s. I think 5 fails a bit as the NE corner looks
    a little clogged, but 1 has larger counters there. 2 could also be a bit reminiscent
    of Comic Sans, though of course much pleasanter. 5 has lost some of the springiness
    in the top arches, which gave 1 the vitality and made the a and g harmonise better
    with d and b.
  created: '2009-03-05 17:44:27'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I think you're right, Ben. Thanks for the observations.
  created: '2009-03-06 14:40:19'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">And, welcome to the \u201CE-named fonts club\u201D. :-)\r\n\r\nUm, took
    me a moment to realise what you were talking about, Nina! Nice ;)"
  created: '2009-03-07 20:38:34'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Some more glimpses of the redrawn \xDF. Will this work (setting aside the
    need for kerning)?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_6007.gif]"
  created: '2009-03-09 21:20:14'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I think this works a lot better than before, Craig. It's still quite soft-feeling
    and the difference in width between the two bowls is characteristic, but I think
    it works.\r\n\r\nFWIW (from <a href=\"http://de.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Datei:%C3%9F_in_various_fonts.svg\">Wikipedia</a>):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/eszetts_5436.gif]\r\nSince
    you draw a lot of your inspiration from handwriting here: Most people I know write
    the \"\xDF\" a bit like a beta, with a sharp connection between two round bowls
    \u2013 most similar, in this picture, to #2 in the second row, or the rightmost
    one in the second row from the bottom. There may or may not be a descender. (Note
    that those ones that don't do the sharp join in the middle still have two approximately
    almost equally wide \"bowls\". Also note how the stroke starts at the top-left
    for the handwritten variants, comparable to how one would write a \"p\". Do not
    look at the center one in the bottom row &ndash; that just looks stupid. :-> )\r\n\r\nI
    don't know how deep you want/need to go into this; it may just take too much time
    and effort to do a super brilliant unbeatable eszett, as it's not a letter you
    are usually confronted with &ndash; and then it's kind of a \"minority glyph\"
    ;-). I think yours is definitely readable and even rather charming, so you might
    just leave it as is.\r\nBut do make sure the bottom doesn't close up / clog at
    smaller sizes."
  created: '2009-03-09 21:53:09'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Off topic sorry! The dieresis in your sample there looks a bit close to the
    a. It would look happier to me to be the same height as your i tittle. Or perhaps
    you wanted it to be different?
  created: '2009-03-10 20:25:02'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Good catch - I've raised it to match the tittles. Here's some revised diacritics
    for your perusal, as well as yet another go at the germandbls, this time with
    a sharper middle and a doubled stem based on p.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/diacritics_4080.gif]"
  created: '2009-03-10 21:41:43'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"I\u2019ve raised it to match the tittles\"</em>\r\nThat's not absolutely
    necessary. I agree the umlauts were a bit low before, but they're not required
    to be on the same height as the tittle, in fact they're often a bit lower (since
    they're usually a bit lighter too, which yours are as well). I'd move yours down
    a tiny hair if I was you.\r\nFWIW: http://www.altaira.de/posted/tittles_umlauts.pdf\r\n\r\nThe
    new \xDF is cool and looks quite handwritten! I'd make it a little narrower though.
    Also, this might just be the antialiasing, but the curve in the top-left (where
    it bends right after the doubled stem) looks like it could use some smoothening."
  created: '2009-03-10 21:51:00'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "If anyone is still dropping by this thread (which has gone cold as I shake
    in fright at the though of figuring out kerning punctuation and hinting):\r\n\r\nIf
    you had this font, what would you most want to accompany it:\r\na) an italic (sloped,
    with even more \"cursivity\")\r\nb) a straightforward bold\r\nc) a bold that introduced
    more contrast (much earlier experiment along those lines is [[http://typophile.com/node/51229|here]].\r\nd)
    a thin\r\n\r\nWhich of these would you find most useful (or, more bluntly put,
    which would make you more likely to purchase an Emi set)?\r\n\r\n(p.s. please
    notice there is no \"e) all of the above\" option...)"
  created: '2009-04-07 23:25:37'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Good to hear from you and Emi!\r\n\r\nHmm, I think I'd probably like a bold,
    but I'd prefer the contrast-less type. \r\nMight just be me though.\r\n\r\nI wonder
    if there could be a sort of accompaniment that is more scripty (maybe connected?
    narrower?), but not necessarily slanted. Maybe in terms of having a mini-family
    ranging from more \"handwritten\" to more \"type-like\"? Dunno, just an idea.\r\n\r\nOr,
    how bout a Display cut? (Maybe a thin one? Or a fat one?)"
  created: '2009-04-07 23:41:48'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Ooh, I don't know. That contrasty bold does have a nice flavour, but admittedly
    it is quite different. I'd be very interested to see the straightforward bold
    and I think it would be more useful than a thin for example. \r\n\r\nIn your example
    it's interesting how some letters look already quite nice without too much extra
    work (like the abu and g) but others (like the refo and s) seem to need much more
    careful boldening.\r\n\r\nIt would be also really interesting to see an italic.
    What about making a couple of mock-ups, for the italic and bold, just your hamburgefontsiv
    glyphs so we can see which is more interesting?"
  created: '2009-04-08 00:07:21'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: 'Oh, I''d take option e), but one that combined a), b), and d). :-) If forced
    to prioritize, I''d go with the order you''ve given above, namely the italic first,
    then a bold, then a thin.  '
  created: '2009-04-09 01:31:00'
- author:
    name: wierdw123
  body: I would go with option A. It would be great to see a somewhat-cursive relative
    to this font.
  created: '2009-04-13 14:43:37'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Thanks for the input, all. Some good ideas. I'll try to post some sample alternatives
    soon.
  created: '2009-04-13 15:08:52'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_4530.gif]\r\nHere's a first go
    at italics and bolds. Is this the right character for an accompanying italic?"
  created: '2009-04-13 18:27:15'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: I like it. For the italic, the t needs to have a curved bottom, and the s
    feels somehow stilted, but I like the way it's going.
  created: '2009-04-17 22:30:12'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Oh, I thought I commented already! Sorry.\r\nI like it too! Really nice work.
    The italic looks wildly curly up close, but seems to have a really nice feel and
    flow in text.\r\nThe bold would be nice to have too, but I must say I'm more excited
    about the italic, FWIW."
  created: '2009-04-17 22:46:35'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I am also surprisingly excited about the italic :)\r\nI think a descending
    f might work well?\r\nAgree s needs work where the curves join the stem.\r\nI
    do like the bold too. But go with the italic first."
  created: '2009-04-17 23:25:30'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Thanks for checking in guys! :)\r\nI'll keep going with it. Ideas about both
    't' and 'f' occurred to me as soon as I posted the sample! I'll see what I can
    do."
  created: '2009-04-18 00:40:17'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_4755.gif]\r\nlowercase italic
    sketched. "
  created: '2009-04-19 14:49:59'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: 'Nice. I actually think it looks great small. I wonder if c and r are a bit
    wide, but hesitate before seeing a pdf. '
  created: '2009-04-19 20:34:51'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I agree it seems lovely. I'm really liking this.\r\n\r\nOne thing I'm wondering
    about is the angle of the leg of the \"k\"; I wonder if it would \"flow\" more
    if it were steeper, and perhaps with more of a curve at the foot? Not sure.\r\nThe
    curve on the bottom of the \"f\" seems a bit lumpy (and the \"j\" too actually),
    but that may just be the GIF.\r\nOh, and I love the tittles!\r\n\r\nLooking forward
    to a PDF.\r\n\r\nBTW, what happened to the poor animal? ;)"
  created: '2009-04-19 20:45:41'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture2_3484.gif]\r\nThanks for the
    feedback.\r\nSecond row shows my new 'y' which I like much better. \r\nAdded head
    \"serifs\" to 'j' and 'i' and foot \"serif\" to 'x'. Not sure about that upper
    right terminal of 'x'. I need help with the 'c' - been altering the width back
    and forth but I think the problem goes deeper than that. (I thought it'd be easy
    because I was happy with 'e' after simply skewing it, cleaning up the widths,
    and extending the tail but the same treatment on 'c' didn't work.) \r\nI also
    feel like 'a' isn't quite working right.\r\nI narrowed the 'r' too.\r\nFourth
    row shows an experimental alternate 'z'. I've been talked out of using this form
    for an alternate in the regular, so now I guess it's time for you to talk me out
    of it in the italic!\r\nI tried Nina's suggestion on the 'k's in the last line.\r\nShould
    I try an 'f' descender that doesn't curve?\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-19 21:22:56'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Oh, I actually liked the u-with-descender-shaped \"y\" a lot. Are you going
    to leave it in as an alternate? In any case, I think the new one might be a hint
    too dark.\r\n\r\nI'm not going to talk you out of an ezh-shaped \"z\" &ndash;
    I'm a big fan of the form. But I believe it should be an alternate only, and I
    think the proportions are a bit off. At least the way I know the shape, I'd expect
    the middle point way above the baseline: <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/ninastoessinger/3429947569/in/set-72157616517910717/\">example</a>
    (but maybe this is not what you meant? Hmm.)\r\nI think right now it looks a bit
    like an unhappy compromise, like a normal \"z\" with a swash or something.\r\n\r\nI
    like the new \"k\", although I can't tell if it works better from this distance.\r\n\r\n\"c\":
    It looks surprisingly \"geometric\". How about making it narrower and maybe the
    top curve tighter than the bottom, kind of like in the \"e\"? Maybe play around
    with the vertical position of the left side extremum?\r\n\r\nRe the \"r\": That
    \"rice\" example looks like it may be good to test the \"ri\" and \"n\" for confusability.
    Or the \"rn\" and \"m\"."
  created: '2009-04-19 21:59:57'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Yes, I'd try a straight descender on the f. Or make the curve taper slightly.
    It looks dark at the bottom. \r\nI like the curly k!\r\nI was also going to say
    you might need to raise the knee of your z off the baseline. I wonder if rather
    than a straight top and diagonal whether the whole shape could be much more curvy...more
    like a 3...fluid to go with the speedy felt pen feel?\r\nIf you're going with
    the straight y, maybe try putting a curl on the bottom of the descender like you've
    done with the leg of the k?\r\nI think the top of the c could be narrower, like
    the top of the a. The bottom might be ok as it is. \r\n[Edit: Oh, Nina just said
    that already. Hm. Good good :)]\r\nI think with the a, it's the counter that looks
    funny. It might be worth rotating the counter anticlockwise a few degrees...just
    a guess though really. The whole right side of the glyph looks slightly slightly
    too light I think? I think it's hard to say without playing with the nodes. The
    answer will come naturally.\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-19 22:15:32'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Re: the 'z', you're right both about the compromising intention and the unsatisfactory
    result. Here's an ezh that's proud to be an ezh:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/newz_5489.gif]\r\n\r\nOh,
    and yes, it would be a stylistic alternate."
  created: '2009-04-19 22:16:15'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ital_5972.gif]\r\nshows adjustments to
    y (curved lower terminal), c (narrowed top), a (revised SE of bowl), f (changed
    descender)."
  created: '2009-04-20 02:01:09'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "The clamored-for pdf has arrived, attached to the first post. Just shows
    lowercase italic. I haven't yet added the f-ligs.\r\n\r\nFor the caps I'm thinking
    of doing very little to the skewed caps from the regular font - maybe just adding
    a serify top to B/D/P/R, and making the loopier Q standard. I think less \"swashy\"
    caps will rein in the curviness of the lowercase and leave the possibility of
    all-cap italic settings viable. \r\n\r\nBut of course I'll have to see how it
    looks and decide from there."
  created: '2009-04-20 02:31:12'
- author:
    name: wierdw123
  body: One thing that I would like to point out with respect to the <strong>y</strong>
    is that its style differs from that of the unitalicized font. In the regular face,
    the <strong>y</strong> appears to be a "u-with-descender" (as altaira called it);
    however, your italicized version is a "straight y". It might be nice to have a
    "u-with-descender" as an alternate or something... I dunno, I'm just spitballing.
  created: '2009-04-22 23:13:53'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Well, since you're the second one to ask, I better include the curvy one
    as an alternate. \r\n\r\nOr am I alone in liking the straight one better, in which
    case maybe <strong>it</strong> should be the alternate?"
  created: '2009-04-23 03:05:15'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I think the curvy one may fit better with the other letters.\r\nYour t is
    looking great, just the right amount of swoosh. I think if you applied similar
    terminals on e.g. a,b,h,i...it would harmonise really well; their curly toes are
    slightly too tight in my opinion. If this was real writing, the t would have been
    written faster, it looks nice and energetic. Does that make sense? :)\r\n\r\nThe
    top of c is fine now, but the bottom terminal needs to come on or become more
    vertical or something.\r\n\r\nSince you've taken some of the curve off the bottom
    of the f, would it be a nice balance to add more of a curl on the top end? (Like
    you did with the tail on y)\r\n\r\nIt's looking good :)"
  created: '2009-04-25 00:09:41'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: You're talking about altering the terminal shape (of 'a', say) to be like
    t, but not lengthening the tail - is that right?
  created: '2009-04-25 03:27:38'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_5426.gif]\r\nMore like this second
    'a'?"
  created: '2009-04-25 03:38:31'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Yes, that's it. The radius of the curve there looked a bit too tight to me.
    I wouldn't necessarily lengthen the tail but just make the curve more open...just
    my feeling. The second one is nicely flowy. It could even be less curved perhaps.
  created: '2009-04-25 11:27:28'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Still looking at tail of 'a':\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pic2_5339.gif]"
  created: '2009-04-25 17:04:55'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Hard to explain what I mean. Here's a diagram for the tail:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Emiabendy_4371.gif]\r\nI've
    made it too soft on the terminals :("
  created: '2009-04-25 17:38:07'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Ah, so coming out of the stem more vertically instead of hewing to the italic
    angle so strongly. I'll give that a try. The trick will be to avoid it getting
    too black as the bowl stroke and stem stroke come apart.
  created: '2009-04-25 19:22:30'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_6440.gif]'
  created: '2009-04-25 20:36:43'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Previous post shows 4 different tails of 'a' - most recent alteration last.\r\nBelow
    are 6 different head treatments of 'i'. #1 is a cleaned up version of what appeared
    in my last pdf. I think I'm leaning towards #3. \r\nI'd appreciate hearing any
    opinions.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pic2_3642.gif]"
  created: '2009-04-25 21:15:50'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_5535.gif]\r\nOf course, I could
    go real swashy with the italic caps. Maybe that's best left for another font?
    The monoline character might make graceful swashes a challenge, especially for
    someone with my limited drawing skills. Opinions?\r\nAnd maybe more seriously,
    still hoping for some feedback on the 'a' tail and 'i' head serif questions above."
  created: '2009-05-01 21:15:57'
- author:
    name: bemerx25
    picture: 112539
  body: "On the a's: I think version 3 has just the right amount of quirkiness but
    still maintaining a harmonious balance with the rest. So I approve of your preference!
    For the i - yeah I think 3 works best, again it has just the right amount of quirkiness
    but still maintaining a good balance with the rest of the letters. \r\n\r\nAs
    for swashes - I don't think this is the right font for that - but I could be proven
    wrong. Excellent work Craig."
  created: '2009-05-01 22:07:00'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>On the a\u2019s: I think version 3 has just the right amount of quirkiness
    but still maintaining a harmonious balance with the rest. So I approve of your
    preference!</em>\r\n\r\nThanks for the feedback. The <em>fourth</em> 'a' was actually
    my \"fixed\" one - do you think that one goes too far in smoothing out the lines?\r\n\r\nYet
    another question for all: Any point in considering a cursive structure of 's'?
    Here's an attempt. I'm not sure it's reading like an 's' yet.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_6220.gif]"
  created: '2009-05-02 19:11:32'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "That's a difficult question, re the \"s\". (For the record, I find all these
    detail questions pretty hard to answer &ndash; but highly interesting.)\r\n\r\nPersonally,
    I find the cursive \"s\" form harder to read, and in a way it seems to call for
    a connected treatment, which I guess you don't want to do. Dunno, I think I'd
    stick with the upper one. (BTW, is it possible that it's a bit lumpy where the
    spine meets the upper curve, I mean on the bottom of the upper uh, bowl thing,
    on the left? [Sorry about the lack of concise wording here.] But maybe it's only
    the rendering.)\r\n\r\nI like your swashy \"B\" a lot BTW! But I'm suspecting
    it may be over the top for this font, especially since your roman caps are pretty
    neutral/factual. Hmm. Maybe as optional alternates? I must admit I'd hate to see
    you throw away that \"B\"."
  created: '2009-05-02 19:46:21'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "With the a's, I like the stem on number two and the flick of number four.
    The stem on four seems to be coming away too much from the bowl, whilst the flick
    on two seems too tight. Does that make sense?\r\n\r\n\r\nWith the i's, I'd like
    to see something in between one and three. I hope that's not a finicky thing to
    say. :)\r\n\r\nI think the nodes on s where the top curve joins the spine need
    to retract slightly down the spine. Keep the bcps where they are though.\r\n\r\nI
    like the idea of a loopy version; your B and cursive s are fun. Perhaps it's a
    different member of the Emi family.\r\n\r\nIs it me or do you seem to have slightly
    reversed contrast? I noticed it on the a and t."
  created: '2009-05-02 19:57:04'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "@altaira:\r\n<em> Personally, I find the cursive \u201Cs\u201D form harder
    to read, and in a way it seems to call for a connected treatment</em>\r\nThose
    are exactly the conclusions I was coming to.\r\n\r\n@Bendy:\r\n<em>With the a\u2019s,
    I like the stem on number two and the flick of number four. The stem on four seems
    to be coming away too much from the bowl, whilst the flick on two seems too tight.
    Does that make sense?</em>\r\nI thought that's what #3 was, more or less. Hmm.
    I'll push some more points around and repost.\r\n\r\n<em> With the i\u2019s, I\u2019d
    like to see something in between one and three</em>\r\nHmm, maybe a \"flag\" structure
    with a rounder top? I'll see what I can come up with.\r\n\r\n<em> Is it me or
    do you seem to have slightly reversed contrast? I noticed it on the a and t.</em>\r\nI
    think that may be an artifact of my lazy skewing process to generating the italics.
    I have a lot of cleaning up to do on the stroke weights, and terminals, too.\r\n\r\nSo
    glad to have you guys weigh in on this!"
  created: '2009-05-02 20:24:26'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_3576.gif]\r\nleft: i #1 from
    above\r\nmiddle: i #3 from above\r\nright: new i\r\n\r\nalso, is my s better?
    boy, s is hard enough in an upright, major curve challenge in italic!\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-02 20:38:38'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Hmm, dunno, \"i\" #3 looks a bit unhappy to me\u2026 cramped. :-\\\r\nI actually
    like \"i\" #1. Although I also liked #6 above (#4 I think is too \"connecting\"
    again in a way). But it's hard to tell from this distance how well that would
    harmonize in the font."
  created: '2009-05-02 21:00:16'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "The 'i''s at a different scale:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/i1_3480.gif]\r\n^
    i #1 from the ititititit post. (Ignore that first i in \"weeiis\")\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/i3_5723.gif]\r\n^
    i #3 from the ititititit post. (Ignore that first i in \"weeiis\" again)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/i6_6090.gif]\r\n^
    i #6 from the ititititit post.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/i8_5063.gif]\r\n^
    rightmost i from the sisisis post (combo of #1 and #3)"
  created: '2009-05-02 21:39:52'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: 'I think the new i is going in the right direction...the top is certainly
    right. The flick needs to be longer, I think, and less steep. I''d make the terminal
    more vertical too, I think.  '
  created: '2009-05-03 00:31:07'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Arrgh. Remind me to make my next font a rectilinear constructivist job -
    these curves are killing me.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_4194.gif]\r\nLeft:
    Old #1 that Nina liked.\r\nMiddle: Old hybrid of #1 and #3, called #8 in the previous
    post.\r\nRight: New, latest attempt. Let's call it #9."
  created: '2009-05-03 03:03:40'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Yeah, let's all do a FontStruct party next time :)\r\n\r\nAargh, this is
    really difficult.\r\nI think in your smaller examples, I like #8 better than #3,
    which seems to have a bit too much going on at the x-line. Although I don't quite
    want to give up on liking #6 &ndash; it's slick. (But yeah, maybe it's too slick.)\r\nThe
    more I stare at them, the less I can tell. :-\\"
  created: '2009-05-03 05:07:08'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "But hey, once you've got the shape right you can do similar things with the
    other letters :) \r\n\r\nHm, I'm starting to like number 1 too (sorry!) I think
    actually it's less busy like Nina said. \r\n\r\nI wonder if there's anything to
    be said for taking a marker pen and seeing what other things come out naturally
    when writing letters like this."
  created: '2009-05-03 08:31:02'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_6551.gif]\r\nOkay, first i here
    is the same #1.\r\nSecond is a new attempt, let's call #10. Trying to avoid too
    much business and crampedness, while also implying a little more change of direction
    than the swoopy round exit strokes."
  created: '2009-05-03 15:11:12'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: 'I think it''s good, #10. :)'
  created: '2009-05-03 22:54:11'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Okay, I'll go with that for now.\r\n\r\n'k' questions: is my 'k' too 'R'ish?
    And should I close it up? \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ks_3908.gif]"
  created: '2009-05-04 15:54:57'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: I don't think it looks too much like R, but perhaps if the return stroke were
    more parallel with the outstroke, it would look less so. And I think open is the
    way to go, in keeping with the more-or-less rapid writing flavor of the family
    so far. (If you want the connection with the stem to be so precise, then I'd go
    with a two-stroke k, which will also move it away from the R issue.)
  created: '2009-05-04 18:39:31'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Then I guess I might also ask if I should open up the B & R similarly...
  created: '2009-05-04 19:29:52'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_5888.gif]\r\nExperiments opening
    the counters of k (as above), B, R, and e. \r\nI think I like k/B/R, maybe not
    e. "
  created: '2009-05-04 20:56:58'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Oh, the second \"R\"/\"B\"/\"k\" are very nice indeed! The whole thing flows
    so nicely. \r\nStrange, in this comparison the \"old\" version looks almost stiff
    and uncomfortable &ndash; which it didn't seem like at all previously! Great improvement,
    to my eye at least.\r\nI'd agree about leaving the \"e\" closed though.\r\nWhat
    about the \"P\"?"
  created: '2009-05-04 21:05:41'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Thanks! I think the P, like the e, doesn't work as well.\r\n [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ps_3450.gif]\r\nOn
    the e and P, the strokes just fall short and look \"stencil-ly.\""
  created: '2009-05-04 21:25:39'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Nice with the disconnects (agreed on the e too).\r\n\r\nThe a looks great
    now. It's easier to judge even with just a little bit of text to compare it to.
    \r\n\r\nHyphen is a bit high for me. And a bit far right. But I guess you haven't
    looked at metrics for the italic yet. Sounds like that won't be fun ;)"
  created: '2009-05-04 21:25:56'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Or maybe the P *does* work. Opinions?
  created: '2009-05-05 15:22:30'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: 'I think the P works perfectly being open. Historically, too. '
  created: '2009-05-06 19:26:39'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Italic ampersands! Any of these would need cleaning up, but which do you
    like best for this font?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ampersands2_3637.gif]"
  created: '2009-05-14 20:16:25'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "No question in my mind: number 2.\r\n\r\n2 > 4 > 3 > 0 > 1"
  created: '2009-05-14 20:56:52'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Ampersand number two looks good between capitals, but I think number four
    looks better among the lower case text.
  created: '2009-05-15 08:32:57'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Thanks for the input. Here's another view of the same ampersands at smaller
    scales.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_4301.gif]"
  created: '2009-05-15 16:46:28'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Oops, I mistakenly changed the numbering there - that 1-5 from the last post
    actually correspond to 0-4 from the previous one.
  created: '2009-05-16 03:24:40'
- author:
    name: traviskochel
    picture: 117022
  body: 'I agree, number 3 (new number system). It seems to work better with the lc
    at smaller sizes. '
  created: '2009-05-16 04:02:32'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Thanks. I definitely think that was the most attractive glyph of them. I
    worried that it might be too elaborate for the face, but then I think an ampersand
    can bear to be a little more baroque.\r\n\r\nIn addition to cleaning up the weights,
    I reshaped italic 'S' with a steeper spine. \r\n1) Do you agree the new 'S' shape
    looks better?\r\n2) Must/should I make a corresponding steepening of the lowercase
    's'?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Sss_4037.gif]"
  created: '2009-05-18 17:56:45'
- author:
    name: traviskochel
    picture: 117022
  body: "I like the steeper spine. To my eyes, it seems like the bottom curve is a
    little flat or squished though. Maybe the bottom terminal, or the spine, could
    be moved up slightly? \r\n\r\nI'll leave question #2 to be answered by someone
    more experienced."
  created: '2009-05-19 11:08:58'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Good eye. Here are four versions: the \"old\" and \"new\" from above, as
    well as two different redrawn ones with less squished bottoms.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_4699.GIF]"
  created: '2009-05-19 15:08:43'
- author:
    name: traviskochel
    picture: 117022
  body: 'Both of the new ones look good to me, but I''d say #3 if I had to choose.'
  created: '2009-05-19 22:59:48'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "New pdf posted up top (loopysample11.pdf) shows progress, most recently on
    the italics and generating diacritics.\r\n\r\nI'd welcome input on everything,
    but maybe particularly on the alternates.\r\nPresently, Emi has these stylistic
    alternates:\r\nI in regular and italic (without and with crossbars)\r\nJ in regular
    and italic (descending and baseline)\r\na in regular (double and single story)\r\ng
    in regular (single and double story)\r\nq in regular (tailed and straight descender)\r\nt
    in regular (straight stem and curved)\r\ny in italic (curvy and straighter)\r\nz
    in regular (without and with crossbar)\r\nz in italic (baseline and descending)\r\n\r\nWhich
    of these have value? I'm thinking of dropping the alternate regular g and z.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    right now I have the \"crossbar ligatures\" coded as discretionary (DLIG). (They
    are listed on the last line of the character set listing in the specimen.) Should
    I go ahead and force them on everybody (and enable them for everybody) by making
    them LIGA instead, or are they too weird (or is the answer different for different
    combinations?"
  created: '2009-05-27 21:44:52'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Your italic is looking really nice there :) In fact so is the regular!\r\nHere
    are my thoughts.\r\nItalic:\r\nI love the k. I think you could transpose its leg
    onto the Q, which to me doesn't quite work strongly enough. \r\nThe stem of q
    looks thin. And to some extent the same goes for g.\r\nCompare S and O and you'll
    see O looks quite thin in the SE and NW. S looks a bit heavy all round.\r\nComparing
    U and V makes me think U needs thicker uprights.\r\nI think \xE6 should have a
    one-storey a.\r\n\r\nRegular:\r\nI prefer the t with the tail. I prefer the lower
    height on it too. Perhaps the original t could be shortened?\r\nSquare and curly
    brackets look narrow. \r\nAfter all that discussion about your q, I think now
    I prefer the straight descender one.\r\nThe strokes on @ look thinner than the
    other glyphs.\r\nI might consider making the arms on k steeper with the leg joining
    the arm rather than joining the stem. In comparison to n or p, the gentler slope
    of the arms looks a bit disharmonious.\r\nCrossbar on \xA3 looks as though it
    could go down and right a bit. (Especially on the SC and lining versions)\r\nI
    know the Euro is supposed to have sheared crossbars but to me I think in this
    font they need blunter ends.\r\n\xF7 fell down a bit somehow. \r\n\r\nI'm really
    liking this. I'm really pleased how well it stands up next to Myriad, as I think
    I mentioned before :)"
  created: '2009-06-02 21:26:08'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Thanks so much Ben for the feedback. I'll get right on the changes!\r\nI
    was leaning the same way on the q tail, actually. I think I'll save the flick
    for the italic.\r\nWhen you say \"square and curly brackets look narrow,\" you
    mean the overall glyph, right (not the stroke weight)?\r\nMy very first attempts
    at k (back on p. 1 of this thread, changed maybe before you even joined the conversation)
    were the structure you describe, but the arm came out of the stem way too high.
    I think there's promise for that structure but drawn with a more conventional
    shape.\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-03 14:30:40'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Aw, I just realized I still owe you some feedback there Craig. Hopefully,
    tonight!
  created: '2009-06-03 17:00:13'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Great, I've been hoping you'd chime in. :-)
  created: '2009-06-03 17:23:07'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Yes, the shape of the brackets rather than the weight. They seem a bit underfed
    compared to the round shapes of the alphabetic glyphs.
  created: '2009-06-03 18:00:05'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/regfixes_4204.gif]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/italfixes_6053.gif]\r\n\r\nHow
    do I make a one-story ae that doesn't look too much like an oe?"
  created: '2009-06-04 05:49:45'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Ok, I prefer the lower t, but I know other people prefer them to be taller.
    What about a middle height? (It's only a small difference :)\r\nWith the k, I
    think the lower leg could start lower and have a gradient similar to the original,
    but I think the top arm looks really nice, especially with the link at the bottom.
    \r\nThe tail on the Q isn't quite as steep as I meant but I like it a lot! Keep
    it.\r\nPerhaps the ae needs to have the top of the a starting higher up on the
    e. I can't think of any other way. It doesn't quite look like an oe at this size
    but at small sizes you might need to make it more distinct. "
  created: '2009-06-04 09:44:49'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "OK, I'm here. I tried to look at this like I'd never seen it before, so here
    are a bunch of semi-randomly listed comments. (Whoa, this got a bit epic)\r\n\r\nI'm
    in love with your italics! Where the roman is amiably nonchalant and \"human-handed\",
    the italics bring in a level of self-confident, refined elegance that's just lovely,
    and amazingly enjoyable (without losing the connection to the roman though!).
    Great work. (I may have said this before :-) )\r\n\r\nIt still puzzles me that
    when I look at some (if not most) of your italic glyphs up close &ndash; like
    the \"s\" above, or the \"j\" &ndash; there's a hint of reversed stress that seems
    unusual. But in text, it works/reads beautifully, so that probably means don't
    change a thing. :-)\r\n\r\nMy favorite glyphs are the italic \"k\" and \"q\".
    Regarding what Ben said about the \"q\", I agree the flick on the tail works better
    (= would probably be expected more) in the italic than the roman, but I for one
    like it in the roman too.\r\n\r\nI also really like the alternate \"z\"s in the
    roman and the italic. And the alternate italic \"y\". I hope all of these can
    stay. (Dunno about over there, but in German it's quite usual for people to cross
    their \"z\" in handwriting, so to me the crossed \"z\" makes a lot of sense here,
    as a device to make it look more handwritten, whereas the normal \"z\" would look
    more typographic.)\r\n\r\nThere's some minor lumpiness to your italic \"m\" I
    think. Specifically, the top-right of the first counter.\r\n\r\nYour eszett is
    in danger of being dark in the top-left, but I'm not sure how to fix it.\r\n\r\nThe
    word \"the\" (of all things) looks strange in your italics :-(. I suspect it's
    either the relative widths (\"t\"'s foot being too wide compared to \"h\") or
    spacing (in terms of making the \"t\" tighter on the right side).\r\n\r\nTo my
    eye, there's some spacing weirdness in your examples of contextual \"f\" substitutions
    &ndash; in \"offhand\", the \"fh\" seem much closer than the \"ff\". Might you
    be overdoing the \"whee, I can space this closer now\" effect from the narrower
    \"f\"? :-) (I've been guilty of that\u2026)\r\n\r\nLooking at your roman again,
    I'm not sure about some of the cap proportions (which I admit is uncool to say
    *now*, but it just struck me). In DUCKLING and QUIZZICAL, the \"U\" looks rather
    narrow to me. Maybe the \"A\" (and \"V\") are also a bit on the narrow side? Not
    sure.\r\n\r\nThere's some minor curve wobbliness in the oldstyle \"3\" methinks,
    in the bottom.\r\n\r\nYour commas and apostrophes are great. I'm envious :-)\r\nDon't
    forget to kern your punctuation. (\"NEAT -O\")\r\n\r\nThe small caps seem a bit
    smallish to me seen next to the lowercase, but that might just be me. (BTW, there's
    a lc eogonek instead of a smallcap in the Polish sample text, not sure if that's
    a problem in the font or the setting?)\r\n\r\nAnd I think something went wrong
    with the spacing of your italic fractions.\r\n\r\n\r\n*\r\n\r\nDiacritics:\r\n\r\nYour
    tilde is enviably nice. \r\n\r\nYour accents are quite light. Is that intentional?\r\n\r\nAlso,
    you seem to have found the only coherent Hungarian sample text without hungarumlauts
    ;-). But I see you have some. They're a pretty strange shape in the small caps
    &ndash; I believe they're supposed to relate to the acutes, but I'm not sure.\r\n\r\nRegarding
    the ogoneks, have you seen Adam Twardoch's how-to?\r\nhttp://www.twardoch.com/download/polishhowto/ogonek.html\r\nI'm
    not quite sure but it looks like the one on your \"a\" exceeds the width of the
    base glyph on the right, which seems to be a no-no.\r\n(BTW also see what he says
    about zdotaccent, where the dot should be the same as the tittle apparently.)\r\n\r\nYour
    italic lslash seems a bit stiff. I think I'd model it after the italic \"l\" (at
    least that would seem logical &ndash; but I don't read Polish so mind the salt).\r\n\r\n*\r\n\r\nReally
    unimportant stuff:\r\nYour \"fj\" lig and your italic dollar sign aren't merged.
    :-)\r\n\r\nI'm beginning to eagerly look forward to seeing this out in the wild.
    It's really quite nice! And holds up impressively well against those other fonts
    in your sample. Very nice work. :)\r\n\r\n[EDIT: That new italic \"Q\" rawks!]"
  created: '2009-06-04 14:58:52'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/k_5057.gif]\r\nI think regular k is headed
    in the right direction\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ae_3817.gif]\r\nI
    raised the start of the a-part in ae, and also nudge a bit of the beginning of
    the e-part's tail over to be more suggestive of an a tail, but I still fear it
    may be mistaken for an oe. I should probably do some research on one-story 'ae's."
  created: '2009-06-04 15:07:31'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Yup, the third k works very nicely. I don't know what to suggest for ae. Someone
    with more exposure to it needs to comment.
  created: '2009-06-04 15:23:35'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>I\u2019m beginning to eagerly look forward to seeing this out in the
    wild.</em>\r\n\r\nMe too, but my to-do list grows faster than I can cross things
    off! :-\\\r\n\r\nThanks you two for your eagle eyes and welcome encouragement.
    :-)"
  created: '2009-06-04 16:28:14'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "New pdf. (loopysample12.pdf) Can't believe it's been a month since I posted.\r\n\r\nMany
    changes (though none terribly dramatic). Some include:\r\n- Added a Th ligature\r\n-
    Tinkered with a's bowl, some stem baseline terminals\r\n- Resized the smallcaps
    a little bigger - how does their size look to you now?\r\n- I think I thickened
    some accents - do their weights look okay? (I also wonder if some should be steepened...)\r\n-
    Many of the other fixes and corrections y'all suggested.\r\n\r\nI think I need
    to review the spacing on the italic.\r\n\r\nI'm still hoping for feedback on whether
    the crossbar ligatures (and now, I suppose, Th) should be DLIG or LIGA.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    I'll be able to get some feedback on Emi from the masters at the TypeCon crit
    session!"
  created: '2009-07-05 07:43:06'
- author:
    name: wierdw123
  body: "The new pdf looks great! I'm glad to see that you chose that \xE6-ligature
    over the \u0153-esque ones. In my opinion, it's best to go for clarity because
    ambiguous characters are a real pain when reading. The only thing I wanted to
    point out was in your sample text for Hungarian: the '\xF5' should be changed
    to '\u0151' and the '\xFB' should be '\u0171'. Tildes and carons are not part
    of the standard Hungarian orthography."
  created: '2009-07-17 04:59:13'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Thanks Wesley. I pulled that text off of Project Gutenberg, and I was *wondering*
    why my diacritics with \"hungarian\" in their name made no appearance! I'll fix
    it.\r\n\r\nTalked to Chris Lozos (dezcom) about Emi today at Typecon - he's helped
    me to realize I should probably start over completely on the spacing and kerning.
    8-\\"
  created: '2009-07-17 13:40:51'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">I should probably start over completely on the spacing and kerning.\r\n\r\nCan
    I ask what's your reasoning?"
  created: '2009-07-17 21:43:17'
- author:
    name: wierdw123
  body: Well, as a font that is reminiscent of handwriting, I don't think that the
    kerning has to be perfect. In fact, a little unevenness might add to the overall
    effect.
  created: '2009-07-20 22:59:02'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "There's some faulty spacing at the root: a string of nununnuu for example
    looks all uneven; and I've lost confidence that my kerning classes (made by a
    couple of runs through with FontLab's tool) are complete and appropriate.\r\n\r\nI
    haven't nuked anything yet and perhaps I don't need to, but there is appeal in
    the idea of a fresh start...\r\n\r\nIn the meantime, I sought some guidance on
    Emi from Matthew Carter, Akira Kobayashi, John Downer, and Gerard Unger. !! I
    sat down with them for about 10 minutes at the sign-up crit session at TypeCon.
    I'm hoping video will be available soon, both to share with you guys and to review
    myself, as I was rather freaked out and probably missed much of what they said.
    If my memory serves correctly, though, it went well! :-)"
  created: '2009-07-21 22:02:09'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "I think there is a bulge in the area that I have highlighted, or maybe the
    \"diagonal spine\" is thinner than the rest of the letter. It appears to me in
    both large and small settings. Get out the calipers :-)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/s_5752.png]\r\n\r\nSorry
    if I am wrong but it stands out to me. It just looks more harsh than smooth or
    fluid.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-07-21 22:32:15'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "> I sought some guidance on Emi from Matthew Carter, Akira Kobayashi, John
    Downer, and Gerard Unger\r\n\r\nOh Gosh! What an amazing opportunity! Can't wait
    to see the video! Now if only they did TypeCon here in the UK... :("
  created: '2009-07-21 22:48:15'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I think you're right, Michael. I'll see what I can do (besides start a petition
    to remove 's' from the alphabet). :-)
  created: '2009-07-22 00:13:56'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "There is a wonderful little oblong paperback out there by HZ (with a marbled
    cover). It is an instructional book he did for Rotring. In it is a modulated sans
    that is very beautiful, and yours has hints of it. If you can secure it, it is
    called Calligraphy, it might be very helpful to you as you hone this font. It
    is available in French, Spanish, German and English... and probably won't cost
    you more than 10 or 15$\r\n\r\nMichael\r\n\r\nEdit: if you cannot find it I will
    scan the page for you."
  created: '2009-07-22 00:57:45'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Graig\r\n\r\nIt is Creative Calligraphy, it is available on Amazon..... page
    4 or 5 if you search Books/Hermann Zapf. 22.99$, I was close, sort of!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-07-22 02:54:54'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Thanks, I'll see if my library can get it for me.
  created: '2009-07-22 04:14:25'
- author:
    name: bela.frank
    picture: 115308
  body: "Nice project.\r\n\r\nWill you sell this or do you have other plan with it?\r\n\r\nI've
    gone through the latest specimen and found that\r\nin Hungarian section there
    are many mistake - had you wist\r\nto correct I could help.\r\n\r\nKeep up the
    good work."
  created: '2009-07-24 10:51:46'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Thanks for the compliments. \r\nI do plan on selling it when it's complete.\r\nThanks
    for the offer on the Hungarian - I think what I'll do is look for another text.
    Of course if you happen to notice problems in that one it would be helpful to
    know them..."
  created: '2009-07-24 15:36:59'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I've attached a pdf to the first post which shows an experiment suggested
    by Gerard Unger at the TypeCon crit. The critics thought the italic was working
    better than the roman, and he suggested taking the italic design and tilting it
    back upright. So the latest pdf shows three versions for each language specimen:
    roman, uprighted italic, and italic. (Note that I did do any cleaning up of the
    shapes - the uprighted italic is just a raw re-skewing.)\r\n\r\nNext to the uprighted
    italic I think the original roman looks pretty clunky now. On the other hand,
    replacing it with the uprighted italic would lose much of the range of the typeface
    family.\r\n\r\nThoughts?"
  created: '2009-07-25 20:15:58'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I faced a similar thing with Eternal, after starting the italic, I realised
    the roman looked less convincing...I put it down to the lack of experience when
    I drew the roman first...and then stopped working on it :(\r\n\r\nHowever, with
    Emi, I actually think there's room for both. Your upright italic looks really
    lovely because of the dynamism introduced with the strokes more connecty. The
    original roman looks quite sturdy in comparison. Somehow the forms in the new
    roman seem to gel better, I think."
  created: '2009-07-26 16:26:11'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "It's alive!!\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture-5_6155.gif]\r\nWith
    some encouragement from type-designer friends, I've finally started to figure
    out multiple mastering. \r\nI'll still push Ambicase out next, but after that
    I will return to Emi looking for insights that these weight experiments might
    offer."
  created: '2010-04-30 05:20:27'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Ah! This will certainly be interesting to see. I'm finding I need to work
    on Mixteca's bold in the same font file as the roman so I can compare them directly
    in the preview window. I'd started with bold separate and the widths and heights
    looked fine on its own but on comparison found that it was very much not fine...
  created: '2010-04-30 20:02:06'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>so I can compare them directly in the preview window</em>\r\n\r\nby alternating
    between them, or is there a way to see different masters side by side?"
  created: '2010-05-01 16:14:05'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Also, Ben, when you built fonts out in both lighter and bolder directions
    from an initial regular, were they all in one .vfb file somehow?
  created: '2010-05-01 16:47:54'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Well I wasn't doing it with MMs. I started with the medium, thin and the
    bold in separate .vfbs and then realised that switching between them didn't really
    allow me to compare them simultaneously. I realised I'd added/taken away the weight
    to the interior of the forms, and therefore the thin needed condensing and the
    bold needed expanding to get the counters back to where they should be. Also the
    relative heights needed compensating (smaller for the thin and larger for the
    bold).\r\n\r\nWhat I'm doing now is pasting glyphs from the thin/bold into the
    medium so I can have /n.thin/n.medium/n.bold in the preview window together. Once
    I'm happy with the proportions I'm then pasting them back into the right .vfbs
    for final tweaking. I'm sure there must be a better way. "
  created: '2010-05-01 17:15:31'
date: '2008-10-17 20:26:30'
files:
- filename: loopysample.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/loopysample.pdf
- filename: loopysample2.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/loopysample2.pdf
- filename: loopysample3.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/loopysample3.pdf
- filename: loopysample4.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/loopysample4.pdf
- filename: loopysample5.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/loopysample5.pdf
- filename: loopysample6.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/loopysample6.pdf
- filename: loopysample7.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/loopysample7.pdf
- filename: loopysample8.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/loopysample8.pdf
- filename: loopysample9.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/loopysample9.pdf
- filename: loopysample10.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/loopysample10.pdf
- filename: italpdf.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/italpdf.pdf
- filename: loopysample11.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/loopysample11.pdf
- filename: loopysample12.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/loopysample12.pdf
- filename: uprightedsample.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/uprightedsample.pdf
node_type: forum
title: Cursive-flavor sans

---
