---
author:
  name: nina
  picture: 111699
body: "Hi all,\r\n\r\nAnother obscure detail question from me. I started wondering
  about the various design possibilities of S/s in slab serif faces.\r\n\r\nWhile
  looking at my samples, I got the impression that the more geometrical / constructed
  slabs, as well as those based on neoclassical lettershapes (e.g., Rockwell, Glypha,
  Memphis, or Serifa) tend to have the serifs on the outside, which connects to the
  treatment of Cc and G.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/glypha_3919.png]\r\n\r\nOn
  the other hand, the more \"dynamic\" slabs I looked at (most notably, Caecilia and
  TheSerif), which tend to have less 'curvy' Ss, have the serifs on the inside of
  the curve, which also happens in the G and Cc and even connects to a little serif-like
  terminal on the hook of the a. (I like that.)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/caecilia_4958.png]\r\n\r\n\r\nThen
  there are those with serifs on both sides of the curve, such as Grover.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/grover_5464.png]\r\n\r\n\r\nPlus,
  I've also found some special s designs such as Archer with the little ball terminals,
  or even this asymmetric one in <a href=\"http://www.fontfarm.de/themes/fonts/kofi/02_02_01.php\">Kofi</a>.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/kofi_4341.png]\r\n\r\n\r\nSo,
  any opinion on which way is 'better' (any differences re. readability, openness
  of shapes, problems when making bold weights) \u2013 well I guess in the end, it
  is a matter of preference and most of all, of fitting into the general \"curvature\"
  of the typeface?\r\n\r\nAlso, does my original assumption hold true that certain
  Ss serif designs are inherently connected to certain styles of letterforms, and
  one should not, for instance, attempt to make 'inside' serifs on a geometric slab
  (by opening up the curves a tad to fit them in \u2013 ok, that would make the face
  a lot less geometric)?\r\n \r\nOr is it totally OK to design the s either way, judging
  by 'eye' in terms of it working / fitting into the alphabet? (Either way of course
  making sure the correspondence to Cc and G, and if applicable, a, is there.)\r\n\r\nThanks
  for any pointers and/or opinions. I hope this wasn't too confused. :)"
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...one should not, for instance, attempt to make \u2019inside\u2019 serifs
    on a geometric slab...?</em>\r\n\r\nWhy not try out your idea and see if you can
    make it work? "
  created: '2008-10-19 16:49:47'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thanks, Nick, I have actually started working on it. The thing is, I don't
    really trust my eye yet in these kinds of decisions; and I am also somewhat wary
    of violating all kinds of unwritten laws (which makes type design feel like a
    mine field, albeit a very inviting one). \r\nSo, yes, I will post a sketch here
    \u2013 probably in a couple of days, once I get it to look decent enough. (:"
  created: '2008-10-19 17:02:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Like in your \"N\", the \"outside\" serifs (which can also be seen as double-sided
    serifs) in slab designs are in a way vestigial: it took time for people to get
    over the traditional serif scheme. As such, fonts with outside serifs are more
    old-fashioned or quaint - at least I think so.\r\n\r\nIn terms of readability,
    that's an interesting question - I haven't thought about it. I would say that
    the impact is small (which is not to say it should be totally ignored - this is
    after all Detail Land) and it comes down to the balance of distraction (outsides
    are more distracting) versus differentiation (outsides are more distinctive).\r\n\r\nOne
    thing that might come into play here is what I mentioned in your \"N\" thread
    too: scanning versus reading smoothly. For the former, quaint caps are better,
    while for the latter you want the caps to blend in more.\r\n\r\n> I am also somewhat
    wary of violating all kinds of unwritten laws\r\n\r\nFew of those can be seen
    as Laws - most of them are conventions.\r\nSo in this minefield, the mines move
    around.  :->\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-19 17:49:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I am also somewhat wary of violating all kinds of unwritten laws</em>\r\n\r\nIt
    has long been said, learn the rules and then break them, but that's crap.\r\nIf
    you are starting out, why rush to work in established grooves? You will become
    habituated to convention, a young fogey."
  created: '2008-10-19 19:12:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I agree.\r\nMake your own rules, then check out what others\r\nhave decided,
    but then -crucially- adapt as needed.\r\nWithout this last part you remain merely
    an artist.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-19 19:37:47'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"If you are starting out, why rush to work in established grooves?\"</em>\r\n\r\nWell,
    where do I draw the line? (Sorry, no bad pun intended.) Conventions are not just
    boring, they are also what people out there are used to, & what they can read.
    I am not particularly interested in making wacky display fonts that nobody can
    read, or that do not seem to make sense; so I do have an interest in first getting
    an idea of what the different ways to go are, & then make up my mind which one
    I choose, and why, and how I modify it for my needs.\r\nCome to think of it, I
    am, in general, not somebody to \"just do\" & think later. My colleague is a bit
    like that. We're very different. I need to thoroughly wrap my brain around the
    problem at hand & possible solutions first before I can get visual.\r\nBut I am
    actually drawing \"s\"s right now. :)"
  created: '2008-10-19 20:07:04'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Some first sketches of the slab in question, along with a lengthy and happy
    ramble, are <a href="http://typophile.com/node/50670">here</a>.
  created: '2008-10-19 22:23:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm not fan of the Nike slogan either. Do think for yourself,\r\ndeeply.
    But actually trying things is part of thinking too.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-19 23:17:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I am not particularly interested in making wacky display fonts...</em>\r\n\r\nWithout
    setting your typeface in paragraphs at text size, that's exactly what you're doing."
  created: '2008-10-20 06:23:20'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: OK, that was probably unclear. What I meant with <em>wacky display fonts</em>
    is the type of stuff most often found on freefont sites, experimental fonts that
    ignore all conventions, are built off of "funny ideas" and are often very hard
    to read. I'm not saying those aren't interesting in their own right, but not my
    goal here; I want to have some sort of understanding of conventions and, yes,
    traditions as a base to build on (which doesn't preclude the possibly of bending
    and/or breaking them).
  created: '2008-10-20 09:10:28'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I think that what Nick means is that you need to work a bit quicker, more
    digitally. Your sketches look nice, but you are showing us your output too early.
    Quickly make vector outlines of a few of your letters in FontLab, generate the
    incomplete font, and start setting pages of dummy text in InDesign (or whatever
    text-setting applications you prefer). InDesign is just as important a tool to
    text typeface design as FontLab. Once you see your letters in text, your eye will
    tell you what is right and what is not. If you still have questions\u2014and you
    will\u2014post PDFs of these test sheets here."
  created: '2008-10-20 10:25:38'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Personally, and I've heard more type designers say this, I wouldn't go to
    digital too quickly. Drawing with a pencil can be much quicker to sketch out a
    few ideas, it's more natural and spontaneous. You're also not restrained by the
    b\xE9ziers yet. Once you're getting a pretty good idea what most of the lettershapes
    are going to look like, then it's time to start making them digitally.\r\n\r\nBut
    hey, that's what I think. ;)"
  created: '2008-10-20 15:27:53'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Sketching and drawing are good! But type design isn't a linear process that
    goes: step one \u2013 draw on paper, step two \u2013 draw on screen, step three
    \u2013 space, step four \u2013 finish.\r\n\r\nRather, you can sketch on paper,
    make a digital test of your ideas, test in text, make print outs, draw on the
    print outs, take some letters in another direction via sketching on paper, correct
    outlines and spacing, etc. Repeat for a long time, and then you'll get there ;-)\r\n\r\nA
    lot of the questions that are being asked here are going to be answered best via
    trial and error. The best way to test a text face is in text."
  created: '2008-10-20 15:35:19'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Interesting. I am too kind of wary about going digital too quickly but the
    back-and-forth process you describe, Dan, sounds quite interesting.\r\nFWIW, in
    this case, I wasn't so much wanting to \"show my output\" in terms of getting
    any sort of definitive feedback; I thought of it more in terms of a blog entry
    showing the progress of the project, & maybe getting some input on how to proceed
    (which is exactly what has been happening \u2013 thanks!). Maybe I should do it
    on my own blog instead \u2013 I am aware it's way too early for any kind of serious
    criticism about the individual shapes."
  created: '2008-10-20 16:07:44'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I don't mean to criticize your working pattern, NIna. My initial comment
    came about because I was trying to expound upon what I think that Nick might have
    been getting at. In the end, you should do what you feel most comfortable with.
    On the other hand, I don't think that you have anything to fear in terms of working
    too quickly or jumping into the wrong medium at the wrong time.\r\n\r\nYour professors
    are no doubt giving you their own hints, and at the end of the day, you'll need
    to listen to whatever they are telling you, too, of course ;-)"
  created: '2008-10-20 16:30:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Frustration is your friend! Embrace it, joust with it, toy with it. The battles
    you have within yourself to learn to \"see\" so that you can trust your eyes are
    the most rewarding teachers you will ever have! That is not to say that you should
    approach your design like a Jackson Pollack painting. Type design is a combination
    of both sides of your brain--intellect  and intuition interacting sometimes as
    one and sometimes in opposition. Don't rush into \"the rules\" before you take
    the opportunity to look at the design problem unarmed and without prejudice. There
    is plenty of time to be confined in the box of tradition and to be held by the
    welcoming arms of historic authority. Crawl, then take your baby steps and cruise
    along holding on as best you can. This period will teach you more than any pile
    of rules. After you muddle about a bit, learning rules  of the past will have
    greater meaning without thwarting you. You only have one chance to be naive, don't
    throw it away. You will have a lifetime afterwards to learn and debate the value
    of rules.\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-10-20 16:36:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Concerning when to move from pencil to digital*, it depends on a few things,
    including the nature of the design, and the nature of the designer!\r\n\r\n* Assuming
    you don't do it all digital, like some experts do do.\r\n\r\n> Without setting
    your typeface in paragraphs\r\n> at text size, that\u2019s exactly what you\u2019re
    doing.\r\n\r\n1) It's probably still early.\r\n2) There's more to wackiness than
    bad spacing!  :-)\r\n\r\n> type design isn\u2019t a linear process\r\n\r\nVery
    true, it's highly iterative, but there are still phases (even though they can
    mingle a bit). For example there comes a point where most people no longer sketch.\r\n\r\n>
    The best way to test a text face is in text.\r\n\r\nShe hasn't decided that it's
    a text face.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-20 16:48:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Right Dan, that's exactly my point.\r\nThe feedback loop that involves Quark/InDesign
    is what puts digital type design a quantum level beyond the 20th century process.
    Although interestingly, I suspect it's more akin to earlier methods involving
    punchcutting.\r\n\r\nScale changes everything, and -- especially for a beginner
    -- you can't know how a design will work until you read it.\r\nAnd then you have
    to ask yourself, on observing a bit of spottiness, is that caused by the character
    shape, the stroke weights, the joint treatment, the font weight, or the sidebearings?
    Does it effect only certain character combinations? These polyvariant relationships
    are fundamental, and must be held in the head as what constitutes the general
    essence of the face, against which all detail decisions are made. They are only
    apparent in text. Now of course, you can examine other faces and deduce what works
    in them, and those with experience can tell you what principles they use (the
    conventions), but then you don't fully apprehend technique with your own visual
    intelligence, or develop the quality of personal style, unless you discover it
    yourself through trial and error."
  created: '2008-10-20 16:54:18'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: ">She hasn\u2019t decided that it\u2019s a text face.\r\n\r\nThis is part
    of her graduate coursework in Z\xFCrich. I'm assuming that they don't have the
    option to do display faces there (?)"
  created: '2008-10-20 17:06:12'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Wow. Leave the computer for a couple hours and this is what happens :)\r\n\r\n<em>I
    don\u2019t mean to criticize your working pattern</em>\r\n\r\nNo worries, Dan!
    I had a rather bad day at work so forgive me if I came across grumpy or something.
    It's highly interesting to read about this kind of \"workflow\" input (plus thanks
    for your \"voice\" in this, as I really didn't quite understand what Nick was
    saying).\r\n\r\n<em>Frustration is your friend! Embrace it, joust with it, toy
    with it. The battles you have within yourself to learn to \u201Csee\u201D so that
    you can trust your eyes are the most rewarding teachers you will ever have!</em>\r\n\r\n:-)
    Thanks, Chris. I'm already feeling progress in questioning vs. trusting my eyes.
    Even my hand, actually; I haven't been doing any sketching for years prior to
    this and my stroke had gotten very rusty. Now very slowly, the feeling for curves
    is starting to creep back in, which is great.\r\n\r\n<em>Type design is a combination
    of both sides of your brain\u2014intellect and intuition interacting sometimes
    as one and sometimes in opposition. Don\u2019t rush into \u201Cthe rules\u201D
    before you take the opportunity to look at the design problem unarmed and without
    prejudice.</em>\r\n\r\nSpot on :-). I know I tend to be a bit on the brainy side
    of things. I mean <em>that</em> side. On the other hand, this combination has
    always been one of the major features of type design I've supposed to be quite
    enticing. So I'm definitely trying to be open. :)\r\n\r\n<em>Scale changes everything,
    and \u2014 especially for a beginner \u2014 you can\u2019t know how a design will
    work until you read it.</em>\r\n\r\n:-) A couple of weeks ago in the course, one
    of the students rushed into the room, very excited, and exclaimed that everybody
    should run out and scale their stuff down on the photocopying machine; indeed
    it was quite illuminating just how different the letters looked at a small size,
    and how totally different features came into focus, and different problems and
    questions could be observed. So, yes, I am beginning to see what scale does, and
    I'm sure that actually seeing the letters in combination and in a text would reveal
    a lot more. On the other hand, I now have something like ten letters, at least
    five of which I'm very sure don't work at all yet, so I don't see this as a moment
    where I'd need to see it in text just yet \u2013 there'd probably be too many
    distracting errors in it anyway for me to judge the shapes themselves (what you
    said, Nick).\r\nBesides, I'm not exactly a FontLab pro yet, so the quick back-and-forth
    between analog & digital won't exactly be quick for me ;-).\r\n\r\nOn the other
    hand, in the process of trying to decide just what this face is going to be, it
    would certainly be illuminating to just try and set it as text, & see if I can
    judge if that <em>could</em> work. I just think that needs a tad more time.\r\n<em>\r\n>She
    hasn\u2019t decided that it\u2019s a text face.\r\nThis is part of her graduate
    coursework in Z\xFCrich. I\u2019m assuming that they don\u2019t have the option
    to do display faces there (?)</em>\r\n\r\nActually, there is no restriction on
    what kinds of faces we do. There are folks doing geometric / conceptual stuff,
    modernized blackletters, somewhat modernized Jugendstil stuff \u2026 in short,
    I see lots of designs there that look even less likely than mine to become text
    faces.\r\n\r\nThe only thing they told us was that at the end of the course, they
    expect us to present a font (not even necessarily multiple weights) with all letters,
    numbers, and punctuation (I assume they also want Latin-1 Extended type special
    characters, although I can't remember they explicitly mentioned that). We don't
    even have to hand in the font files themselves, but just do a poster presentation
    & hand in a documentation. \r\n\r\nBear in mind this is a part time course and
    we're all working 40 to about 120 percent on the side, so the requirements must
    be quite a bit lower than in Reading or Den Haag."
  created: '2008-10-20 18:02:06'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>I thought of it more in terms of a blog entry showing the progress
    of the project [...] Maybe I should do it on my own blog instead</cite>\r\n\r\nYes.
    Posting to a forum means that you expect an answer.&nbsp;&nbsp;:)\r\n\r\nRegarding
    Nick's and Dan's remarks about analog vs digital, the medium per se is not the
    issue. The problem is that it is not clear how exact your sketches right in the
    first post <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/50670\" target=\"_blank\">here</a>
    were supposed to be, especially \"Ernestine\" and \"Ernostige\". If you had tried
    digitizing it, i.e. translating from one medium into another, you would have been
    forced to be more precise about some details. And as said, you could have printed
    and looked at at different sizes. So you might have found out by yourself that
    something went wrong, and what went wrong.\r\nJust one example: In the \"n\",
    the shoulder touches the left stem at a relatively high point, and the top extremum
    of the shoulder is too much to the left.* It looks like you tried to treat the
    shoulder as symmetric as possible. But the result is that for one, the top left
    serif and the high touch point create a pretty dark spot, moreover, the entire
    letter seems to lean toward the left side, counter to reading direction. To \"look
    right\" however, this would require some adjustment. [* This peculiarity is present
    in the sanserif too, yet there are no serifs to emphasize it.]\r\nNow the situation
    is not that different with the \"s\". The top and bottom curves are pretty flat.
    There's simply no space left for outward serifs. If you add them, you get the
    same strange black spots as in the \"n\". Just make another sketch and try. To
    be able to add outward serifs, you would need to turn the curve ends inwards,
    make them thinner, so that there is some more space which serifs could fill. Actually,
    the two top samples you present in your first post above show pretty well what
    is going on, and what needs to be done to make outward serifs possible. The issue
    is not one of geometrical, constructed, neoclassical, dynamic, etc but simply:
    How did the designer dealt with details.\r\nSo even in your few sketches it is
    pretty obvious that -- which seems to be your experiment (combining both this
    thread and your blog entry) -- you cannot simply add some serifs here and there
    but need to alter lettershapes too to accomodate for the serifs. Not only with
    \"s\" but also with more \"trivial\" letters like the \"n\"."
  created: '2008-10-20 18:50:07'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>Yes. Posting to a forum means that you expect an answer.  :)</em>\r\n\r\nWell
    regarding the post with the sketches \u2013 I expected there'd be more of a perceived
    difference between a <em>forum post</em> and a <em>blog entry</em> here. I wrote
    that the way I'd write it on my other blog (except that one is in German), and
    wouldn't have if it felt like \"posting to a forum\". So if forum and blog posts,
    respectively, are pretty much regarded as interchangeable I'll have to change
    my posting form.\r\n\r\nIf anything, I was really just quite excited about the
    new direction this project is taking, happy about having a few crooked letters
    on my sheet of paper, & wanting to get back and show I'm actually doing something
    apart from asking about N joins and S serifs and such. ;-)\r\n\r\n<em>The problem
    is that it is not clear how exact your sketches right in the first post here were
    supposed to be, especially \u201CErnestine\u201D and \u201CErnostige\u201D. If
    you had tried digitizing it, i.e. translating from one medium into another, you
    would have been forced to be more precise about some details.</em>\r\n\r\nLike
    I said in the blog entry, they're raw sketches. They're actually the first sketches
    I have with serifs. The need to get more clear on the details is obvious to me,
    but at this point in time, I'd still prefer to work on it on paper; a process
    in which I'm still very much at the beginning. \r\nI find it's easier for me to
    keep a feeling for the overall shape on paper, whereas on the computer, I tend
    to fizzle around with details & lose touch with the overall scope. Also, I feel
    working on paper actually forces me to think more & work more carefully.\r\n\r\n<em>Just
    one example: In the \u201Cn\u201D, the shoulder touches the left stem at a relatively
    high point, and the top extremum of the shoulder is too much to the left.</em>\r\n\r\nThanks
    for pointing that out; I did think the join was too high, which is actually a
    feature of the sansserif I left in there for now to see how it works. I then kind
    of felt it didn't, and making the join lower was on my list for things to try
    next. I'm still very much at the beginning of the process, and I'm quite happy
    when I actually see one of the things that don't work. (Also, figuring that it
    wouldn't be possible to just \"stick serifs on the sans\" is exactly what makes
    this interesting to me from a type design studying perspective.)\r\n\r\nOh, and
    about the S: I actually tried those two variants. I think I even made (or at least,
    I wanted to make) the curves even flatter than they were in the sans, to make
    the serifs fit better. I tried the other variant too, with the outward serifs,
    but didn't like the curvy shapes it demanded."
  created: '2008-10-20 19:19:41'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "An intermediate approach to evaluating initial design directions -- intermediate
    between drawings and beziers, with respect to the valid advice about seeing letters
    in context and at different sizes -- is to simply scan your sketches, duplicate
    letters and compose multiple test words in Photoshop, and make copies reduced
    to various sizes.\r\n\r\nThis is akin to \"old-skool\" techniques used in the
    20th century (by such as Gill and Dwiggins, for instance), but much easier now
    with scanners and PShop. It bypasses the FontLab learning curve for now, if that
    is an issue. You can easily sketch out alternative approaches to your s-serif
    question and put the alternates side-by-side in the context of your other characters
    in real words. \r\n\r\nI used this approach for a while before I became completely
    comfortable in the digital realm. Evaluating ideas in this way led me to ditch
    several early designs that lacked real promise ;-)\r\n\r\n-- K."
  created: '2008-10-20 23:08:49'
date: '2008-10-19 15:43:27'
title: Where to put the Ss serifs in a slab?

---
