---
author:
  name: Michael Cunliffe Thompson
  picture: 109540
body: "The nights are already longer. My sailboat is out of the water. This morning
  the bird bath was frozen. Now is the time to start thinking about the next release
  of Mike Hebrew!  Generally the next release will be ready at the time when Cabin
  Fever prevails in the surrounding forests....\r\n\r\nIn this topic, I like to share
  some of my design issues in the hope of receiving practical comments.\r\n\r\nIn
  this example of Mike Hebrew Web, I pasted bits of English text at random into a
  Hebrew newpaper article using the same font and size throughout. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mixed_latin_and_hebrew_1_4740.jpg]\r\n\r\nAn
  example of side-by-side usage of Mike Hebrew Web with a single point size.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mixed_latin_and_hebrew_2_5435.jpg]\r\n\r\nThe
  Design Process\r\nI started with setting the size of my Hebrew characters so they
  would look good when displayed or printed without nikud or cantilation in Hebrew-only
  text.  Next I tweaked a little to sqeeze them in, however the intent is modern Hebrew
  usage with little use of nikud. \r\n\r\nDefine \u201CHebrew Height\u201D as the
  top of most Hebrew characters such as dalet and het. Lamad would be as high as possible.
  What heights should I use for the latin characters and numerals?\r\n\r\nA choose
  the cap-height to be higher than the Hebrew Height but much lower than the top of
  the lamed.\r\nThe x-height was chosen to be much lower than the Hebrew Height. Numerals
  are a little less than  cap-height.\r\n\r\nSo you see I started with my Hebrew design
  and choose the metrics of the Latin and numerals to match it. These characters were
  adapted from the free font Tuffy.\r\n\r\nI have my doubts as to the suitability
  of  Tuffy and would like something than matches Mike Hebrew more closely. However
  the font should not draw attention to itself. It should also be free. Any ideas?\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Michael Cunliffe Thompson
    picture: 109540
  body: "The font in my first post is \u201CMike Hebrew Web\u201D which is a somewhat
    square font however \u201CMike Hebrew\u201D is a bit more decorative with diagonal
    strokes.  I find it quite difficult to choose a set of Latin letters to complement
    the Hebrew.\r\n\r\nThe example shown here is a modification of Tuffy.\r\n\r\n/font[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mihu_meyelel_buruah_3966.jpg]\r\n\r\nAgain,
    I'm not looking for a Latin font that will mimic my Hebrew letters.\r\nHow to
    deal with this problem?  \r\n\r\nMike"
  created: '2008-10-23 00:54:35'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Mike,\r\n\r\nI like your two Hebrew fonts. The style is both script-like
    and informal, yet very readable and clear.\r\n\r\nEach though each typeface has
    different qualities. So to share a single name, and just to be distinquished by
    their recommended use, does not do design justice to them.\r\n\r\nI agree that
    the Latin faces, though well chosen in terms of weight and clarity, don't really
    match in ideal terms.\r\n\r\nBecause of the informal and stylistic qualities of
    the Hebrew, why not try to create a matching set of Latin faces, too?\r\n\r\nThe
    English is very \"straight\" and block-like. The Hebrew \"moves\" much more, adding
    movement to its informality. This is not at all reflected in most Latin faces.
    Hence, due to the inherent \"straight-ness\" of the Roman letter forms, I beieve
    that you need an unconventional Latin typeface design, which I don't think exists
    yet.\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-23 06:52:09'
- author:
    name: Michael Cunliffe Thompson
    picture: 109540
  body: "Thanks for your comments. The idea of designing a Latin face from scratch
    is daunting!\r\n\r\nTo complete my presentation of the problem, may I introduce
    \"Mike Hebrew Italic\".\r\n\r\nThis was developed from my calligraphy of prayers,
    biblical texts and poems for relatives or friends. The font resembles my hand
    lettering style but with some idiosyncrasies and flourishes removed. Here it is
    \u201CMike Hebrew Italic\u201D.\r\n\r\nThe italic form posed a real problem for
    the Latin letters and the numerals: Which way should they lean?  I decided they
    should be slanted the same way as the Hebrew. The reason for this should be apparent
    from the next example \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bialik_italic_with_dates_5737.jpg]\r\n\r\nThe
    Latin in this font can't be used for a block of text. It just looks ridiculous!
    So if we want a side-by-side Hebrew and English translation of a poem, the Mike
    Hebrew family doesn't have a suitable match for the Hebrew.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/jonatan_italic_4388.jpg]\r\n\r\nIn
    the above poem by Rachel, both fonts are Mike Hebrew with the Hebrew in italic
    and the English in regular. The result is less than satisfactory. I don't have
    any idea of what to do about this. Of course the layout designer could chose a
    different font for the English but would have problems matching baselines, sizes
    etc.\r\n\r\nMike"
  created: '2008-10-24 01:27:19'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Mike,\r\n\r\n><cite>...some idiosyncrasies and flourishes removed...</cite>\r\n\r\nPerhaps,
    you are aware that with MS Volt and OpenType, these \"idiosyncrasies and flourishes\"
    can be included, for a very natural look to your font."
  created: '2008-10-26 14:38:31'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "The leaning of letters is a debate among professionals. Should Hebrew follow
    the direction of English, towards the right, particularly since Hebrew has no
    italic tradition. The only true Hebrew italic is \"David Italic\" and it leaned
    to the right.\r\n\r\nWhen I worked at Font World (www.fontword.com), I reversed
    its direction to lean to the left. I learned many decades ago that eye movement
    is an important aspect of fine art. Hence, since eye movement in Hebrew is to
    the left, I believe all Hebrew italic should lean to the left.\r\n\r\nNow, you
    are asking about a matching Latin font, if it should lean to the left or to the
    right.\r\n\r\nIf Hebrew is the dominant language, and English is used to add a
    word or two or three to the Hebrew paragraph, my view is the English should lean
    to the left as well. Again, this follows the principle of eye movement.\r\n\r\nIf
    each language is dominant, like in side-by-side text, it's debatable. Do we follow
    the principle of eye movement, and lean the Latin font to the right,or do we follow
    aestetics and match the English to the Hebrew (as Hebrew really is the dominant
    language, and English is secondary)?\r\n\r\nMy view is that both languages should
    lean to the left, as in your title. \r\n\r\nAgain, your style is informal and
    non-level like much handwriting. Hence, you need to create either a hand-written
    like font to match (it's not so daunting), or find a more informal existing font
    (I'm sure it's there somewhere, but it won't match exactly).\r\n\r\nI suggest
    to look and find it, and then modify it in Fontographer or FontLab to match exactly.
    Weight and kerning is a big issue. If you plan to also create a \"smart\" version
    in MS Volt in OpenType, then FontLab is a better option than Fontographer (although
    Fontographer has a minimal learning curve)."
  created: '2008-10-26 15:04:50'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "A good font goes through stages of improvement in its development.\r\n\r\nLet's
    put on our critique hats now.\r\n\r\nI suggest that your font needs to be kerned
    properly, so that certain letter combinations appears more evenly spaced.\r\n\r\nI
    suggest the side-bars be adjusted to give it slightly more space between the letters.\r\n\r\nSpacing,
    like kerning, is a very subjective issue. As they say, \"some like it hot\". More
    space, less space. Kern close, kern far. As they say in Hebrew, \"\u05D8\u05E2\u05DD
    \u05D5\u05E8\u05D9\u05D7 \u05D0\u05D9\u05DF \u05DC\u05D4\u05EA\u05D5\u05D5\u05DB\u05D9\u05D7\"
    - \"Taste and smell can not be debated\"; or in English, we say: \"Beaty is in
    the eye of the beholder\".\r\n\r\nIn general, the rule is greater space and further
    distance in kerning when the text size is less; less space and closer distance
    (or even very little and sometimes overlapping) in kerning when the text is more.\r\n\r\nI
    think that this is related to overall text \"color\" - the relationship between
    black and white (space). When text is small, more white is needed to create a
    blanced effect. When text is large, less white is needed to create a balanced
    effect.\r\n\r\nLikewise, readability and easier comprehension results when letters
    are farther apart at smaller text sizes. Greater aestetics is achieved when letters
    are closer, even touch, at much larger sizes.\r\n\r\nThat's my two cents."
  created: '2008-10-26 15:21:53'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Btw, do you know where I could get data of Bialik's poetry or writings, and
    poetry of others, in Hebrew with nikkud?\r\n\r\nI seek to demonstrate different
    OpenType Hebrew fonts with nikkud and Hebrew grammar marks, using Bialik and others
    Hebrew poetry.\r\n\r\nFor my own interest, I seek data of his writings, particularly
    Sefer Aggadah (?)."
  created: '2008-10-26 15:26:21'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Looking briefly at the text in Hebrew, it seems the side-bar on the left
    side of the yud has too much space. \r\n\r\nIf you look at words containg yud,
    like between the yud and final mem in Chaim, or yud and aleph in Bialik, and again
    yud and kuf in Bialik, it appears the yud is too far from the left side.\r\n\r\nActually,
    in Fontographer (and perhaps also in FontLab), the left side in appearance is
    the right side in the program. At least, it was that way about 15 years ago. Maybe
    now it's different with the advent of Unicode. Maybe, FontLab knows Hebrew is
    from right to left. Anyway, you may to experiment."
  created: '2008-10-26 15:37:48'
- author:
    name: Michael Cunliffe Thompson
    picture: 109540
  body: "Israel,\r\nThanks for you many comments which I will consider and answer
    one by one...\r\n\r\nHere is a quick answer to getting Bialik texts with Nikud:\r\nhttp://benyehuda.org/bialik/\r\n\r\nMike\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-27 22:59:27'
- author:
    name: Michael Cunliffe Thompson
    picture: 109540
  body: "Open Type\r\nMany of the very advanced topics that cause hundreds of posts
    on this special interest group for Hebrew are tackled using OpenType.  I'm truly
    impressed by the expertize and energy that goes into it!\r\nIn my simple way,
    I have been using Font Creator (http://www.high-logic.com). This is a relatively
    inexpensive tool and is about as complex as I should care to learn. There remains
    a great deal of functionality in Font Creator which I havn't yet utilized. The
    tool is excellent for TrueType but doesn't support the added functionality of
    OpenType. \r\n\r\nThe Mike Hebrew font family has a lot of potential for improvement
    within TrueType without the added problems of OpenType development.\r\n\r\nThere
    are two areas of functionality in Font Creator which I haven't yet used.\r\n1)
    Kerning - Israel, You are right in your suggestion that the font would benefit
    from this.\r\n2) Transformations using scripts e.g to go from regular to bold.\r\n\r\nMike\r\n\r\n---------------------------------------------------------------------------------\r\n\r\nMichael
    Cunliffe Thompson\r\nSeascapes and Landscapes of New England and...\r\nHebrew
    Calligraphy at http://cunliffethompson.com/font"
  created: '2008-10-29 01:18:15'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "OpenType is only supported in a very minor way by FontLab.\r\n\r\nThe free
    tool from MicroSoft, MS Volt, supports the very advanced features of OpenType.\r\n\r\nYou
    can use any front end, FontCreator, Fontographer, FontLab to edit and create the
    fonts.\r\n\r\nAfterwards, you open it in MS Volt. After you create the \"projects\"
    with the advanced OpenType features, you then \"ship\" the font, with those features,
    but without the source code which created them.\r\n\r\nThen, in the programs that
    support OpenType in all its glory, your advanced OpenType font will operate in
    all its glory. The programs that do not support OpenType in all its glory (even
    though they do support a very limited form of OpenType), your advanced OpenType
    font will not operate in all its glory, but only in a limited way. "
  created: '2008-10-29 03:40:26'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Mike,\r\n><cite>The tool is excellent for TrueType but doesn\u2019t support
    the added functionality of OpenType.</cite>\r\n\r\nFor MS Volt, that's all you
    need."
  created: '2008-10-29 03:42:36'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Mike,\r\n\r\n><cite>1) Kerning - Israel, You are right in your suggestion
    that the font would benefit from this.</cite>\r\n\r\nOne way is through kerning.
    Another way is in OpenType through GPOS and GSUB (with ligatures).\r\n\r\nI prefer
    the ligature approach.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-29 03:45:50'
- author:
    name: Michael Cunliffe Thompson
    picture: 109540
  body: "I just did an experiment with kerning. In Font Creator, I added crazy kerning
    that could easily be recognised. This was done for three Latin pairs and two Hebrew
    pairs.\r\nThis is a screen capture for Font Creator:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/crazy_kerning_6603.jpg]\r\n\r\nThis
    is the result when displayed in Microsoft Word.  The result for Open Office Writer
    is the same and a PDF exported is also the same.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/kerning_on_microsoft_word_5412.jpg]\r\n\r\nNow
    I remember why I gave up on kerning some years ago. I had no software on my PC
    that could display it!  Are the any editors on a PC that will display kerning
    FOR HEBREW?\r\n\r\nMike"
  created: '2008-10-29 23:57:01'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "FontLab's metric window can display unkerned letters and kerned letters as
    left-to-right (by default) or right-to-left (by selection).\r\n\r\nThis is a benefit."
  created: '2008-11-02 06:25:57'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "<code>Hence, since eye movement in Hebrew is to the left, I believe all Hebrew
    italic should lean to the left.</code>\r\n\r\nA spontaneous question from a left-to-right
    reader:\r\nGohebrew said Hebrew does not have a tradition of an inclined italic
    writing style, but it seems Mike's alphabet is based on his handwriting, so \u2013
    in some ways \u2013 we have a custom of writing Hebrew leaning left (at least
    in recent times).\r\nThe bottom line, in these cases, seems to me a question:
    \xABHow does it look in Hebrew?\xBB\r\nBecause, if you ended up leaning your handwriting
    it means it works good, and it's a good direction to explore.\r\n\r\nFor the Latin
    complement it's not easy, but I would not worry excessively. Surely it would be
    a challenge to design a Latin face leaning left (however you try, it looks quite
    bad). But I think there should be a few faces doing this. In general, I would
    choose a quite \"casual\" face, it would work best than a traditional \"text\"
    face."
  created: '2008-11-02 20:33:24'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "piccic,\r\n\r\nHebrew uses another font in place of what Latin languages
    use as Italic. Like Bold, it is a form of emphasis, only lighter.\r\n\r\nHandwriting
    is complex. Is Mike left-handed. Lefties do better in Hebrew, as the arm does
    not \"smudge\" or obstruct the text. The opposite for righties.\r\n\r\nIs the
    angle of the text determined by the handing holding the quill? I assume it's as
    above."
  created: '2008-11-02 22:04:28'
- author:
    name: Michael Cunliffe Thompson
    picture: 109540
  body: "piccic\r\nIf you go back far enough all Hebrew was written by hand. There
    are many reproductions in \"The Book of Hebrew Script\" by Ada Yardeni. I have
    just taken out my copy and I see that many early examples slope to the left. It
    was the Dead Sea Scrolls that inspired me to calligraphy and for some years my
    style was really a copy of this. During the seventies I lived in Israel and wrote
    a cursive that leaned to the left. I don't remember anyone commenting on this.
    In school they teach a vertical cursive however in Israel some people lean their
    handwriting to the right. The font \"Yad\" which simulates handwriting, slopes
    to the right.\r\nMike\r\n\r\nBy the way I am right handed."
  created: '2008-11-03 00:26:32'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Hi, many thanks for your answers! :=)\r\n\r\nSo it's not uncommon at all
    to have sloped handwriting/calligraphy in Hebrew, right?\r\nI guess it's pretty
    natural, it's quite common to lean sligtly towards the handwriting's direction
    when you start writing quickly.\r\nSome 7-8 years ago, frustrated by the way people
    tend to use the keyboard even for the smallest writing tasks, I started to pick
    up again handwriting and to use it extensively.\r\nThis brought me back to the
    habit of using small capitals for emphasis, and as the need arose to write quicker,
    I realized I started to develop a lot of ligature between the capitals.\r\nIt's
    fascinating, since you actually see how naturally more cursive forms (in any script)
    develop from more \"affirmative\" forms, like the capitals.\r\n\r\nHebrew letters
    are so beautiful, but I have not had the opportunity to get into them properly
    yet (I'm currently trying to acquire some familiarity with the Greek alphabet
    first). I have some things about the dead sea scrolls, and I recall we have a
    lot of examples of ancient Hebrew in our \"Archivio Paleografico Italiano\" (which
    I can check at our library Estense, here in Modena). I'm sure I took some picture
    of a passage from Isaiah.\r\nCoincidence, I went to the cemetery a few days ago
    on the festivity of the dead, and I visited also the Hebrew section in the cemetery.
    It's a pity, since nowadays the Hebrew community is pretty small, and the cemetery
    is quite barren and left to itself.\r\n\r\nDuring the seventies\u2026 I guess
    you were listening \"The Orange Season is Over\" by Tamouz all the way\u2026 :=)"
  created: '2008-11-06 19:44:03'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "piccic,\r\n\r\n><cite>During the seventies\u2026 I guess you were listening
    \u201CThe Orange Season is Over\u201D by Tamouz all the way\u2026 :=)</cite>\r\n\r\n\u201CThe
    Orange Season is Over\u201D in Hebrew is \u05E1\u05D5\u05E3 \u05E2\u05D5\u05E0\u05EA
    \u05D4\u05EA\u05E4\u05D5\u05D6\u05D9\u05DD - \"sof oh-nat ha-tah-pu-zim\".\r\n\r\nWere
    you in Israel, then. It was the name of Shalom Chanoch's band.\r\n\r\n><cite>Hebrew
    letters are so beautiful...</cite>\r\nI believe that is because the shapes and
    curves have meaning. The letter forms have meaningful designs, and when a good
    type design put those forms a good tytpe design, their beauty is stunning. Much
    has been written about the Hebrew letters.\r\n\r\n><cite>I went to the cemetery
    a few days ago on the festivity of the dead...</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat is the \"festival
    of the dead\"? A day of yarzheit? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-06 22:20:11'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "I don't recall the band names, but I discovered \u201CThe Orange Season is
    Over\u201D (the album by Tamouz) because I got hooked by the work of Ariel Zilber
    first. Maybe the band you mention is another thing. I see Ariel lyrics are sometimes
    criticized as ingenuous and nationalist, but (although I can't get properly the
    meaning) I instantly liked the optimism and joyful quality of his music.\r\n\r\nAbout
    the letterforms: I entirely agree. That, to a lesser degree, is what I see in
    any thorough work involving creativity. If you do not recognize you live within
    a creation, I can't see actual beauty, just a wandering logic. :=)\r\n\r\nWith
    \"festivity of the dead\" I meant the day we (as catholics) pray for and set in
    communion with the dead, liturgically it's the day following the festivity of
    all saints (November, 1). I'd like to know about yarzeit but I fear that we'd
    be hacking Mike's thread too much\u2026 :=)"
  created: '2008-11-07 15:35:18'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "piccic,\r\n\r\nYou might be right, maybe Ariel Zilber's band was named Tappuz
    and Shalom Chanoch's band. Anyway, they were all friends and used to play together
    too.\r\n\r\nHow did you access Israeli music from America? I was a teenager living
    in North Tel Aviv. So, for me it was natural. I also understans the lyrics, and
    the nuances etc.\r\n\r\nYou could go to www.gotalmud.org and join the blog there.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-07 18:52:45'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "From America? I thought it could be seen from my comments that I am Italian\u2026
    :=)\r\nI hope to keep only the positive elements of any culture I get in touch
    with\u2026\r\nAs for Ariel, I think I was advised by an Israeli young fan with
    whom I talked in a music file sharing community. Then I listened to his recent
    works, and I enjoyed so much his music that I bought some records online from
    some Israeli seller. Ariel then was so kind to give me even a personal email reply,
    and another young fan translated roughly for me a song I absolutely from the recent
    album \"Anabel\" (\"Lev Amitz\", i.e. \"Brave Heart\").\r\n\r\nAnd for you, how
    has it been to grow up simultaneously in USA and Israel? (I was looking at your
    profile). I feel we should stop hacking Mike's thread, however\u2026 :P"
  created: '2008-11-07 19:53:10'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "piccic,\r\n\r\nI didn't read your profile, and your accent could be picked
    up in your words. Id I was Italian, I'd be insulted if I mistaken for an American.
    Sorry 'bout that.\r\n\r\nAmerica has many greatnesses, and a very outgoing caring
    people at times. But culturally leaves much to be desired, except of course folk
    music. :)\r\n\r\nLet me do my due diligence now..."
  created: '2008-11-08 23:12:06'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "piccic,\r\n\r\nI chose to discuss this personal stuff with you at: http://gotalmud.org/blog/category/israels-stuff/.
    Please go there to respond."
  created: '2008-11-09 01:27:37'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "That's great, many thanks Israel. I will drop as soon as I have a quiet minute\u2026\r\nP.S.
    I would not be offended if mistaken for any other culture. In fact, the only time
    in which I came to the US I was constantly mistaken for either a German or a French,
    but I see what you mean: there are so many negative aspects to US culture that
    there is always the risk to overcome a true American identity, imbued, in a good
    deal of cases, by a magnificent jewish heritage as well.\r\n\r\nExamples: almost
    all the big names of the comic book industries, from Jules Schwartz to my beloved
    Jack Kirby (Austrian jew roots, wonderfully expressed in his comic book art)."
  created: '2008-11-09 12:05:25'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "My principal in Israel at the American Intl. School there gave a speech at
    our high school graduation party.\r\n\r\nHe said that having spent our teenage
    years abroad, we would never feel fully at home in the US.\r\n\r\nHaving lived
    back in America for over 20 years, I have found this very true.\r\n\r\nI speak
    English like an American, but don't identify with the culture. Having said that
    I won't to add: As a Chassidic Jew, I have learned to see the good in people.
    Having been to Europe, Israel, Russia (and living in multi-cultural Brooklyn),
    I see how Americans do have some outstanding traits that are found much less elsewhere.\r\n\r\nI'm
    sure if you visited America, you might have picked up on that, if you left Mahattan."
  created: '2008-11-09 13:13:22'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Surely there's a uniqueness for any culture, but I think the focal point
    is to be able to have an appropriate definition of \"culture\". There is a book
    by french historian Louis Dollot, talking about the concept of personal culture
    as opposed to the emerging concept of \"mass culture\".\r\nBut we'd better discuss
    this on your page, or Mike's font thread will be full of \"white noise\"\u2026
    :=|"
  created: '2008-11-09 14:09:05'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: Tell me also over there what white noise is. Is it the opposite of black silence?
    :)
  created: '2008-11-09 15:31:54'
- author:
    name: Michael Cunliffe Thompson
    picture: 109540
  body: "\"Hebrew letters are so beautiful\"\r\n\r\nI'm back again...\r\nI don't think
    all Hebrew letters are beautiful. Some are nondescript and others just don't fit
    to their fonts despite the best efforts of the designer. I take this to be true
    not because I sit on high and deign to judge on some \"aesthetic\" grounds which
    glyphs are inherently good and which are not but because I do have an objective
    measure. This is simply the number of times I have redesigned a glyph. Why it
    was redesigned doesn't need to be considered here. I can just take the number
    itself. I don't actually count design changes but I do remember making changes
    to certain glyphs again and again...\r\n\r\nThe winner is <strong>Mem</strong>.
    \ It has a stupid chubchik stuck on the top left.\r\nClose runners up are <strong>Tet</strong>
    and <strong>Sin</strong> which should be different yet not too different. \r\nAlso
    <strong>Gimmel</strong> is has this stupid appendage on the lower left.\r\n<strong>Lamed</strong>
    must be tall. The long neck is no problem. One makes it as long as possible. The
    problem with the Lamed is the lower part. Different designers have quite different
    solutions and so the designer is free to choose (or to be indecisive).\r\n<strong>Tsadeh</strong>
    is a solid balanced glyph but Tsadeh Sofit is weak and spindly.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ugly_ducklings_4331.jpg]\r\n\r\nThe
    version of the font is the last release. \r\nSurely the next will be better?\r\nMike"
  created: '2008-11-10 03:04:40'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Unfortunately I have no familiarity with the Hebrew letters, but I guess
    Israel was speaking of their \"archetipal\" forms. Since a tradition holds them
    divinely given, it's probably the gesture associated with letters which is important.\r\nIn
    fact I have developed a personal convinction that, if you draw letters keeping
    into account how they have become that way, they hold more strength.\r\n\r\nSo,
    Mike, I guess you could have some space to modify them, anyway.\r\nFrom what I
    see the different styles allow for pretty radical changes. Less than Latin, but
    nonetheless there is quite room for working on them\u2026 :=)\r\n\r\nP.S. Sometimes
    your type looks not evenly spaced, but as I said I'm unfamiliar with the forms,
    and it's difficult to judge from bitmaps. The forms look fine, however.\r\nP.S.2:
    With \"white noise\", I meant the disturbing element."
  created: '2008-11-10 15:47:51'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Thank you for sharing the meaning of white noise.\r\n\r\nAll outline font
    software is rendered as a bit-map. On a monitor, the resolution is particularly
    low, but nowadays most every font is in the TrueType, PostScript, or OpenType
    font formats, which are all are defined as mathematical outlines, and not as bit-maps.\r\n\r\nSome
    outline system fonts are \"hinted\" to render better on a monitor at small point
    sizes.\r\n\r\nAs a graphic artist, I agree that certain Hebrew letters are more
    beautriful in design that others, like the aleph, mem, and even taf.\r\n\r\nAs
    you point out, when you draw letters with intent, their is a superior quality
    to them than to those simply drawn without thought of meaning.\r\n\r\nIn Hebrew,
    we have this tradition, both in holy writings, and even in mechanically produced
    writings.\r\n\r\nFor example, a sofer scribe drew a Sefer Torah scroll after immersing
    himself in a mikva ritual pool, and thinking about the special meanings and associations
    of each letter he composes.\r\n\r\nThe Shlavita brothers, owners of the famous
    printing presses in Shlavita, Poland in the late 18th century, immersed the printing
    plates containing configured Hebrew letters of the Talmud and other significant
    works in the mikva ritual pool before printing with them.\r\n\r\nHowever, these
    outstanding customs are rarely practiced today.\r\n\r\nUsually, each letter has
    a meaning, and significance. Much has been written about this. \r\n\r\nI am of
    the opinion that each letter in a word contributes to the meaning of that word.
    As most Hebrew words have three letter roots, words with share in common the same
    first two letters, in the same order, will have similar or related meanings. The
    third letter provides a particular application of that general meaning.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    much discussion has been devoted to the shapes of the letters, where they have
    open spaces or closed. Are they upwards, downwards, to sideways, right or left?
    I don't believe that any other language and letter form is designed to be conducive
    to this form of analysis."
  created: '2008-11-10 17:07:57'
- author:
    name: Michael Cunliffe Thompson
    picture: 109540
  body: "piccic\r\n\"Sometimes your type looks not evenly spaced\"\r\nYou are right.
    I am spending more time on this for the next version. I am reviewing the design
    of the entire font so as to reduce or largely eliminate the need for kerning.\r\nMike\r\n\r\n-------------------------------------------------------------------\r\nMichael
    Cunliffe Thompson\r\nSeascapes and Landscapes of New England and...\r\nHebrew
    Calligraphy at http://cunliffethompson.com/font"
  created: '2008-11-11 00:35:21'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Mike,\r\n\r\n><cite>I am reviewing the design of the entire font so as to
    reduce or largely eliminate the need for kerning.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe truth is most
    every Hebrew typeface only requires very few kerning pairs.\r\n\r\nIf you devote
    much thought and time to adjust the side-bearings, ie. the space on each side
    of the letter, very little effort must be spent on kerning.\r\n\r\nKerning, as
    you know, adjusts the appearance of space between the letters. So, even though
    a kerning pair may reduce or increase the distance between the letter pair, the
    overall look will be improved, and the distance between all the various pairs
    of letters \"appear\" to be consistant.\r\n\r\nThe classic pairs are the daled
    and gimmel (from right to left), and the reish and gimmel, as there is a perceived
    large gap between them, due to the right bottom void of the daled or reish, and
    the leftward incline of top of the gimmel.\r\n\r\nOther known pairs are the gimmel
    and daled or reish, daled and beit; zayin and taf, yud and beit; nuhn and daled;
    ayin and daled (sometimes); reish and beit; shin and taf (sometimes); taf and
    daled; taf and yud; taf and lamed; and taf and kuf.\r\n\r\nIf you do not plan
    to use it for text with nikkud, you could make a set of ligatures in FontLad or
    any font editor, and then create an OpenType font in Volt which will automatically
    replace the pairs with the correct ligatures, and then the kerning could be put
    to rest. Good night!"
  created: '2008-11-11 02:37:57'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "In general, with Type1 (and OTF), you have very limited possibilities for
    hinting.\r\nHinting is a very important thing, but working on it is a big effort,
    repaid mostly if you generate TrueType or TrueType based types.\r\n\r\nMy friend
    Fabrizio Schiavi is one of the few designers (not only here in Italy) putting
    a lot of care into hinting (not being a large enterprise, I mean). When he designed
    his typeface Sys:\r\nhttp://www.fsd.it/fonts/sys.htm\r\nhe adjusted the geometry
    of the forms to help the hinting process.\r\nOur common friend Oded Ezer (http://www.odedezer.com/fonts.html)
    asked Fabrizio to design a Hebrew version (you can see it in the page I linked:
    scroll down, it should be called \"Systeza\", with Hebrew writing). To work on
    the hinting requires a thorough dedication, and I prefer to concentrate on the
    design as a whole. Besides, it's such a \"technology dependent\" thing that I'm
    unsure if it's worth such a big effort in the long term\u2026\r\n\r\nI have the
    impression that this thing of the word roots is the most wonderful character of
    Hebrew language, although I don't know them. I have epiphanies each time I get
    into the meaning of a word. Not something you have to \"rationally hold\". It's
    really like a gift you receive: as you get the \"transversal\" meaning of a word
    (even if it has been translated into Greek in later codes, it seems it holds a
    good part of this), whole worlds opens before you, at the innermost level\u2026\r\n\r\nI
    understand Hebrew needs little kerning, if the letters are spaced evenly, but
    this goes also for Latin, if you take enough care to design well-thought forms.\r\nOf
    course, any cursive form benefits from this, in any script\u2026"
  created: '2008-11-11 15:31:27'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "piccic,\r\n\r\n><cite>...(and OTF), you have very limited possibilities for
    hinting.cite>\r\n\r\nIs this correct?\r\n\r\nAs I understand it, OTF are divided
    into 2 kinds: the PostScript flavor, and TrueType flavor. Dianne Collier told
    me that she hinted system fonts for MicroSoft. I believe that she was refering
    to OTF of the TrueType flavor.\r\n\r\n><cite>I understand Hebrew needs little
    kerning, if the letters are spaced evenly, but this goes also for Latin, if you
    take enough care to design well-thought forms.\r\nOf course, any cursive form
    benefits from this, in any script\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nDepending upon the design,
    certain Hebrew letter pairs create large gaps of empty space, that can be significantly
    reduced by kerning.\r\n\r\nFor example, the beit \u05D1 by nature protrudes a
    little on the lower right. When the daled \u05D3 or reish \u05E8 are in front
    of the beit: \u05D3\u05D1 \u05E8\u05D1 , there is a gap that can be reduced through
    kerning, or if there is no nikkud a ligature can be created for the pairs in FontLab
    (or another font editor), and a GSUB routine can be defined for them in Volt.\r\n\r\nCursive
    or handwriting fonts are very complex, and could benefit enormously from ligatures,
    or even other amazing effecta."
  created: '2008-11-11 15:59:00'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "<cite>Is this correct? As I understand it, OTF are divided into 2 kinds:
    the PostScript flavor, and TrueType flavor. Dianne Collier told me that she hinted
    system fonts for MicroSoft. I believe that she was refering to OTF of the TrueType
    flavor.</cite>\r\nYes, it is. TrueType flavored OpenType fonts bear the .TTF suffix,
    while Type1 flavored ones bear the .OTF suffix. I was referring to OpenType as
    Type1 OTF, which is the direct \"descendant\" of the Type1 legacy, and has the
    same \"limitations\" concerning hinting. As far as I can get, the limits of Type1
    are closely related to the more economic number of points.\r\n\r\nI thought such
    simple OpenType tasks (ligature) could be defined simply by using the code within
    FontLab. What does Volt do? Maybe Mike would need Volt just because he does not
    use FontLab\u2026"
  created: '2008-11-11 19:42:48'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "</cite>\r\nWell, there is a way to fool the OS into thinking it is PostScript
    .otf, when really it is TrueType in its origin.\r\n\r\nThe main difference between
    a PostScript .otf and a TrueType is in two things:\r\n1. Bezier curves and Quadratic
    curves\r\n2. 1000 versus 2048\r\n\r\nVolt is not a font editor. You still need
    FontLab, Fontographer or FontCreator to create the font.\r\n\r\nAs screen resolution
    improves, hinting will go away like bit-maps. Maybe, another 5 years.\r\n\r\nI
    know that FontLab can make ligatures using the LIGA command. I never saw any.
    I don't know how easy it is. FontLab is code-based.\r\n\r\nVolt is graphical.
    Volt uses the GSUB command. I see the results. I use it every day. It's not hard
    at all. Volt is free. "
  created: '2008-11-11 23:08:08'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "I think we were talking of slightly different things.\r\n\r\nThe differences
    you underline are actually the basic format differences between Type1 and TrueType.\r\nOpenType
    simply starts from the old formats, offering two kinds of possible OpenType output:
    the .OTF flavored, which retains the bezier curves, and the .TTF one, with quadratic
    curves.\r\nBut they are both OpenType, it's just the suffix .TTF which could fool
    you. You have got to open the face in FontLab to see if there's some OpenType
    code included.\r\n\r\nThe code for generating OpenType substitutions is really
    easy (at a basic level).\r\nI have had a super-quick look at the VOLT page, and
    it seems more or less the same thing than\r\n[[http://www.microsoft.com/typography/developers/volt/images/all_ligs.gif|this]]\u2026"
  created: '2008-11-12 21:00:16'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "piccic,\r\n\r\nThe real advatantages of OpenType are much greater than those
    related to file format or the way curves are defined. This is merely <strong>technical</strong>.\r\n\r\nThere
    are also <strong>functional</strong> advantages, which few fonts have mastered
    yet, to my limited knowledge. These advantages are more seen in non-Roman languages
    and the placement of diacritics.\r\n\r\nThe examples which you showed in the \"this\"
    link, about are very simple subsitutions. True, you don't need Volt to do this,
    as very basic substitutions can be done in FontLab (although I never saw anyone
    actually do this).\r\n\r\nWhere Volt really outshines FontLab are the complex
    positioning of multiple diacritics under and/or over a base letter, as is required
    in Biblical Hebrew. This is achieved with the GPOS command. An ingenious way to
    address multiple diacritics is to first have them replaced by a ligature and positioned
    correctly. This is done with the GSUB command, which is processed before the GPOS
    command.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Diacritics_4270.jpg]\r\n\r\nAt
    this time, it can not be done in FontLab, plus we do not see a graphic example,
    as OpenType programming is code-based, and not graphical, in FontLab.\r\n\r\nAt
    this time, FontLab should be the font editor only. Or it could be Fontographer,
    or FontCreator. I personally prefer Fontographer's superior interface and flexible
    feature set to create the fonts. Then, I use FontLab to generate the actual but
    interim font file. Finally, I use Volt to do the heavy OpenType development work,
    and \"ship\" the final font product.\r\n\r\nI suggest that Mike uses the lower
    cost easy to use FontCreator, and then cost-less Volt to do the sophisticated
    stuff. He doesn't need FontLab, since he knows the FontCreator interface already.\r\n\r\nIf
    he was focusing on Latin languages, he could center everything on one tool, like
    FontLab.\r\n\r\nAdam, I've been using Fontographer for over 20 years. I helped
    Jon Von Ehr at Altsys revamp Fontographer's interface and feature set from 1.x
    to 2.x to 3.x to 4.01. FontLab needs to be seriously overhauled. I suggest that
    you use Fontographer as a front end, as a wrapper for FontLab. Make one product
    in two versions, Light for $399, and the full version for $799.\r\n\r\nFontLab
    is a very powerful program, but a pain in 'a - -' to use."
  created: '2008-11-13 01:26:09'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "<cite>Where Volt really outshines FontLab are the complex positioning of
    multiple diacritics under and/or over a base letter, as is required in Biblical
    Hebrew. This is achieved with the GPOS command.</cite>\r\nMay I ask you what happens
    when you generate the typeface? If you re-open it, are the final glyphs \"decomposed\"?\r\nIn
    FontLab I use anchors to define combined glyphs, although, of course, we do not
    have super-complex combinations. Besides, I generally prefer to draw accent glyphs
    specifically (I do not have experience yet, but I recall I edited some Polytonic
    Greek which my friend Panos designed for me, and I ended up getting rid of the
    \"composed\" accents to specifically design them. I mean, the \"dieresistonos\"
    accented letters made me redesign a custom combination of Dieresis and Tonos,
    since overlapping the two did not gave satisfactory results (you need to have
    enough space between the two dots of the Dieresis).\r\nI don't understand what
    you mean by saying \"an ingenious way to address multiple diacritics is to first
    have them replaced by a ligature and positioned correctly\".\r\n\r\nAs for FontLab,
    I never used Fontographer. I tried, but I totally hated the clumsy interface,
    although it was a very solid program. To design, I always used FontStudio, which
    was buggy but light-years ahead in terms of interface and glyph editing. Then,
    as FontLab came out I hated it as well, up to version 4.x. In version 4.x, everything
    changed. True, the interface is still quite a mess (too many buttons and ways
    to accomplish single simple tasks, and the menus organization is bad), but nonetheless
    it's an effective program. I often jump back and forth from FS to FreeHand while
    I design, since each program have unique ways to treat the drawing process (I
    often find useful to blend forms, and make curve editing in one or the other)."
  created: '2008-11-13 14:15:27'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "piccic,\r\n\r\nAre you trying to make an ancient Greek typeface for the Bible?
    If yes, perhaps, we can work together here, as I was to do similar projects that
    I am doing for Biblical Hebrew, for Ancient Greek, Vietnamese, Thai, and other
    languages.\r\n\r\nI use FontLab, but it was renamed as FontStudio. I think that
    it's the same thing.\r\n\r\nDo you have a Macintosh or Windows (XP or Vista?)
    ? If you have a Mac, then you can download a free demo at http://www.fontlab.com/font-editor/fontographer/.
    Try it. It is very intuitive and easy to use, but lacks some of FontLab's or FontStudio's
    capabilities (but FL or FS lack very basic simple things that Fontographer can
    do on the editing level.\r\n\r\nHence, I use Fontographer as an editor to create
    the font. Then, I use Font Lab or Font Studio to generate the font as TrueType,
    and add any advanced features that it offers. Then, I complete the TrueType font
    in Volt, say the project. Close Volt. Then, I reopen the TT font in FL or FS,
    and generate it again as OpenType. Then, I reopen Volt, open the OpenType font,
    import that project, and \"ship\" the final OpenType font.\r\n\r\nBe sure to append
    all the names, as .volt (in Volt) or .fl (in FontLab or FontStudio) to avoid confusing
    then. I call the final shipped product just its font name with no suffixes, but
    save it in a special folder.\r\n\r\nIf you do not use Volt, then I don't see how
    you could contextual substitute without the GSUB routine, or accurate placement
    of diacritics without the GPOS routine.\r\n\r\nAbout decompossing glyphs, I need
    more information.\r\n\r\nTwo last things about Volt and FL or FS, \r\n\r\n1) All
    development work you did in Volt can be saved 100% in a project file, and only
    in part in the shipped final OpenType font,and totally lost if openned later in
    FL or FS.\r\n\r\n2. The number of glyphs in FL or FS must correspond exactly to
    Volt, or everything goes haywire.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-13 16:32:08'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "<cite> Are you trying to make an ancient Greek typeface for the Bible? </cite>\r\nNot
    specifically. As I said, most of the work which I wish to finish, is informed
    by reflections on the  \"post-modern\". In fact, I always keep an eye on the idea
    of being able to set a Bible if the face is enough \"text-friendly\", so I will
    probably add Polytonic Greek in the end, but as a start I wish to keep the work
    self-contained, or I will never put things to completion.\r\n\r\n<cite> I use
    FontLab, but it was renamed as FontStudio. I think that it\u2019s the same thing.
    </cite>\r\nNo. Here you mean the new name of FontLab, which is FontLab Studio.\r\nI
    used to use FontStudio (owned by Letraset, but written by Ares), which ceased
    to be supported a lot earlier than Fontographer (around 1992, I think).\r\n\r\nI
    have a license of Fontographer 4.1.X (part of the old Macromedia \"suite\"), but
    I stopped using it, since I used it just for font generation and I no longer need
    it since I have FontLab Studio 5. I would never use Fontographer as an editor
    to create a face\u2026 I feel its interface \"entirely alien\".\r\n\r\nWe are
    abusing your thread Mike, I think I will start a new one\u2026 :=("
  created: '2008-11-13 18:58:55'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "A last thing. Fontstudio (from the Flickr page of Eric Van Blokland):\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/letterror/2059323123/?addedcomment=1#comment72157609011978334\r\n\r\nPlus,
    a handy creation by my friend Antonio:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/38539"
  created: '2008-11-13 19:03:40'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I recall FontStudio or LetraStudio - one of them, I think the latter. I even
    bought it, as I later bought Icarus too and its big clunky scanner.\r\n\r\nBut,
    I got a long string of very interesting jobs, like a Thai typeface for Smith-Corona
    (they needed the code in PostScript Type 3), a font logo for Estee Lauder in Cyrilic,
    fascinating candy wrapper logos in Arabic for Nestle of Canada (you typed it on
    the US keyboard and didn't have to know Arabic), Vietnamese, Georgian, Greek,
    Ukrainian, Belo-Russian etc.\r\n\r\nSo, I had no time to learn them, even just
    ther interface.\r\n\r\nI kept with Fontographer until a few years ago. In the
    old days, the Altsys people were very kind and warm, and implemented most of my
    multiple pages of suggestions. I wish FontLab Studio had them. When Aldus bought
    them, they celebrated with a big bar-b-que in Plano, Texas. They called me in
    Rochester, NY, and very warmly invited me to join, which I would have. They claimed
    jokingly, \"We're gonna have the biggest fattest juiciest steaks in the whole
    wide world! Please come. You'll drive down, join us, at sleep at Jon's house.\"
    I am an Orthodox Jew, who eats only kosher food and drink kosher wine. So, I refused
    politely, explaining it was one of my kid's birthdays.\r\n\r\nAnyway, I started
    a new blog. We can move this dialog to over there, and this cab be reserved for
    Mike's Hebrew stuff."
  created: '2008-11-13 22:19:32'
- author:
    name: Michael Cunliffe Thompson
    picture: 109540
  body: "Wow! gohebrew and piccic have had quite a chat since I last looked in.\r\nMost
    of it about advanced software tools and mostly well over my head.\r\nBack to simple
    stuff...\r\n\r\nIsrael,\r\nThanks for listing some of the best known pairs of
    Hebrew letters that often need kerning.\r\nI'm looking at that now.\r\nMike\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-14 21:18:17'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Sorry, Mike, I apologize.\r\nIt was just my enthusiasm since I know almost
    nothing of Hebrew scripts\u2026\r\n\r\nI just wish to add Antonio's \"Automatic
    Text\" works with any glyph, and string of glyphs, no matter if Latin or not,
    encoded or not.\r\nI know you are not using FontLab, but it may be handy\u2026\r\nHere's
    an example (typeface: Erica by Yanek Iontef, which has no Unicode since my copy
    is Type1):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AT_Antonio_5212.jpg]\r\n\r\nP.S.
    The \"daggerdbl\" thing is just because, being not Unicode, the Type1 has the
    Aleph in that slot\u2026 :P"
  created: '2008-11-14 21:39:15'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Mike, I have downloaded the previous release of your type family, right now.\r\n\r\nI'd
    love to comment on it, I hope to do so when I am more familiar with Hebrew letters.\r\nIn
    the meantime, although it seems the drawing can be refined, I have to say it looks
    really well-conceived and \"craftful\".\r\nIt's always a problem to learn to digitize
    letters well, this no matter the script\u2026"
  created: '2008-11-14 22:12:56'
- author:
    name: Michael Cunliffe Thompson
    picture: 109540
  body: "piccic,\r\nThanks for suggestion to use \"Automatic Text\". The approach
    may be useful in a technical sense however it seems to me a step in the wrong
    direction.\r\n\r\nMy situation is that I am able to read Hebrew if I know what
    it's about, if I don't know what the Hebrew text is about I have difficulty in
    reading it. If I have an audio of prose or singing then its much easier for me
    to follow the Hebrew. Using the keyboard to enter Hebrew is very slow and if nikud
    are involved it's quite painful!\r\n\r\nIt seemed that to make a font fluid and
    natural I had to develop some new skills. Fortunately, the Internet has come to
    the rescue. I can listen to any part of the Old Testament and follow this in a
    display using my own font. I have the choice of hundreds of Israeli songs on You
    Tube and for almost any Hebrew song can find the lyrics in Hebrew. For many songs
    the Hebrew transliteration and English translation may be found.\r\n\r\nListing
    to a song and following the text displayed in Mike Hebrew has greatly improved
    the way I \"see\" the text. In particular I can now see whole words rather than
    letters.\r\n\r\nTo test a font I seek to choose expressive texts as much as for
    my enjoyment as for a technical goal. On my web site are some examples.  I have
    about thirty texts with audio (or video) to match and am using these to improve
    the shape of common words and also the appearance of the entire page.\r\n\r\nMike\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-14 22:37:07'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "<cite> My situation is that I am able to read Hebrew if I know what it\u2019s
    about, if I don\u2019t know what the Hebrew text is about I have difficulty in
    reading it. </cite>\r\nSuch a \"plug-in\" is just an aid in preliminary setting
    of the basic spacing. It's not meant to generate texts, just to help in having
    strings to see how each letter's sidebearings works alongside with the others.
    In general, for my typefaces I do exactly as you are doing, and I entirely agree
    that, to properly evaluate text, you have to set something meaningful (even better
    if it's of particular meaning to you).\r\nNonetheless I try to fine-tune the sidebearings
    before setting full sentences with custom strings of glyphs.\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-14 23:03:21'
- author:
    name: Michael Cunliffe Thompson
    picture: 109540
  body: "MOST COMMON PAIRS OF LETTERS\r\nI'm now working on getting the spacing correct
    between characters. To do this efficiently it would be good to have a list of
    the most common pairs of letters. Not all pairs of letters but the (say) twenty
    most common pairs. I could then get the spacing of those perfect.\r\n\r\nThis
    seems like the kind of task that a writer of pearl scripts could dash off\r\nor
    maybe the list is published somewhere?\r\n\r\nMike"
  created: '2008-11-21 02:09:50'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Mike, no matter what the letter forms of the script are, I still think you'd
    get an ideal basic spacing by doing a comparative text for each glyph. I.E. if
    you are evaluating an Aleph, use a similar string\r\n|\u05D0| O\u05D0O S\u05D0S
    I\u05D0I V\u05D0V  \u05E1\u05D0\u05E1 \u05D1\u05D0\u05D1 \u05DF\u05D0\u05DF \u05E9\u05D0\u05E9\r\n\r\nAdd
    as many comparision pairs as you need, and compare them in subsequent lines.\r\n\r\nOnly
    after that, start by evaluating actual text, and only when you are entirely satisfied
    with the basic sidebearings, then start to consider adding some kerning\u2026"
  created: '2008-11-22 19:06:46'
- author:
    name: Michael Cunliffe Thompson
    picture: 109540
  body: "piccic,\r\n\r\nWell I suppose we are unlickly to agree!  I am happy when
    I work in a meaningful rather than mechanical way.  What follows is some common
    words in Hebrew and I feel I must get the character spacing right for them because
    they are so common. (The example is NOT an example of good spacing as I'm in the
    middle of designing the letters so they will be spaced well.) \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/most_common_words_3438.jpg]\r\n\r\nI'm
    amused that \u05DC\u05D0 (\"No\") is reported as the most common spoken word in
    Israel!\r\n\r\n\r\nMichael Cunliffe Thompson\r\nSeascapes and Landscapes of New
    England and...\r\nHebrew Calligraphy at http://cunliffethompson.com/font"
  created: '2008-11-29 02:21:03'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "<cite> I am happy when I work in a meaningful rather than mechanical way.
    \ </cite>\r\nSo I am, but you need both. My process is not mechanical at all,
    I'm just bad at explaining it in English\u2026 :=(\r\nWe'll see what I can do\u2026"
  created: '2008-11-29 10:41:22'
- author:
    name: Michael Cunliffe Thompson
    picture: 109540
  body: "Looking through a siddur I don't see any nikud or cantilation below a Mem
    Sofit.\r\nIs this always true?\r\nI like the visual effect of having the bottom
    stroke of the Mem Sofit well below the baseline - it makes it an impressive end
    character to a word.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/large_mem_sofit_4266.jpg]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-02 00:50:24'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I think you should redesign your nikkud to match the letters better.\r\n\r\nThe
    nikkud is too \"straight\" with 90 deree and 180 degree angles, which are traditional
    shapes for traditional designs.\r\n\r\nThe font employs many non-traditional angles,
    which gives it its informal appearance. I suggest the nikkkud should be similar.\r\n\r\nIn
    that way, if I set Hebrew poetry, which often has nikkud, the whole look would
    match.\r\n\r\nI would employ larger elements, with non-traditional and informal-looking
    nikkud to match the letters. Don't be afraid to increase the height of the nikkud.
    This allows the vertical strokes to be at an angle."
  created: '2008-12-02 05:58:27'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "If the nikkud is the squarish accent(s?), I agree.\r\nAt least, make the
    corners rounder, treat them in a way similar to the one you used for the letter
    strokes\u2026 :=)\r\n\r\nP.S. Israel, sorry if I did not post anything, I'm having
    really little spare time and I am trying to devote it to my type work\u2026"
  created: '2008-12-02 21:15:15'
- author:
    name: Michael Cunliffe Thompson
    picture: 109540
  body: "Go hebrew and piccic\r\nAbout the design of the nikud, I agree I need to
    have non-traditional shapes that match my font. More work!\r\n\r\nBut your did
    not comment on my question:\r\nIS IT TRUE THAT MEM SOFIT NEVER HAS NIKUD OR CANTILATION?\r\n\r\nMike"
  created: '2008-12-03 02:53:57'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "The final mem has one nikkud, the chirik, positioned on the extreme right.
    It is used to indicated the correct pronunciation under the non-apparent yud which
    should have appeared before the mem sofi.\r\n\r\nI don't believe that there are
    any cant. marks under th final mem. There are some under other final letters.\r\n\r\nJohn
    Hdson has database for every cant. mark in the Bible, and can tell yu for sure.
    Right, John?"
  created: '2008-12-03 03:06:41'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "The final mem has one nikkud, the chirik, positioned on the extreme right.
    It is used to indicated the correct pronunciation under the non-apparent yud which
    should have appeared before the mem sofi.\r\n\r\nI don't believe that there are
    any cant. marks under th final mem. There are some under other final letters.\r\n\r\nJohn
    Hdson has database for every cant. mark in the Bible, and can tell yu for sure.
    Right, John?"
  created: '2008-12-03 03:07:04'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> IS IT TRUE THAT MEM SOFIT NEVER HAS NIKUD OR CANTILATION?\r\n\r\nSee: 2
    Samuel 24:16; Jeremiah 7: 22;  Judges 18: 17"
  created: '2008-12-03 03:35:17'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: John has database on his pc, but David has a database in his head. Too bad
    he can't burn a CD for me.
  created: '2008-12-03 05:28:01'
- author:
    name: Michael Cunliffe Thompson
    picture: 109540
  body: "Maybe I should add to the release notes for my font:\r\nNOT TO BE USED FOR
    2 Samuel 24:16; Jeremiah 7: 22; Judges 18: 17\r\n\r\nI looked at 2 Samuel 24:16
    and saw the chirik is almost under the previous character and my new design of
    mem sofit did not obscure it. I see also that if delete the mem sofit the chirik
    stays put!\r\nI did not find the promised examples in Jeremiah 7: 22 or Judges
    18: 17.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-05 00:57:20'
- author:
    name: Michael Cunliffe Thompson
    picture: 109540
  body: "When I began this thread I spoke of the horrors of Cabin Fever in New England.\r\nWell
    this winter was more eventful than most... The snowplow got stuck in our\r\ndriveway
    and a second snowplow could not pull it out. Eventually an enormous tow truck
    succeeded. That's not all, we had the Ice Storm. Actually there was no wind, only\r\na
    gentle rain that froze on the branches which eventually fell under the weight.\r\nThrough
    the strangely silent night we could hear the crack and thump of falling\r\nlimbs
    and trees until the power lines had been brought down in hundreds of places. It
    took eleven days for the power to be restored. But now its spring and the \"winter
    work\" on my font is complete.\r\n\r\nSEE THE NEW VERSION  3.2 OF MIKE HEBREW
    AVAILABLE FOR FREE DOWNLOAD AT\r\nhttp://cunliffethompson.com/font\r\n\r\nThe
    font is now more unified in style and the letters fit together better.\r\nI have
    added some new examples of its use to my web site.\r\nMike"
  created: '2009-03-23 22:44:41'
- author:
    name: 386sky
  body: "Fixed all problems with Mike Hebrew Bold:\r\n\r\nFully mixed directional
    glyphs are chosen\r\nAdded ucircumflex and circumflex glyphs"
  created: '2009-08-05 23:32:37'
date: '2008-10-20 03:16:07'
node_type: forum
title: Mike Hebrew - A Work in Progress

---
