---
author:
  name: nina
  picture: 111699
body: "As my project in the Zurich-based Type Design course, I originally had the
  idea of digitizing, and thereby slightly modernizing, this metal face that has been
  mostly forgotten by typesetting history.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/erstes_alphabet_4163.png]\r\n\r\nI
  had fallen in love with it (with its lowercase a in particular); I like its funky
  proportions and its, sometimes quirky, mix between being clear & clean, being curvy,
  being 1910 style 'modern', and even being 'modern' still. So, I figured that making
  something new & usable that should, in a way, breathe a similar spirit as this old
  face would make for a great project. \r\n\r\nHowever, finding said spirit, extracting
  it and deciding about other features and details, proved very difficult when sitting
  in front of the original letterforms with tracing paper. My imagination was glued
  to the original shapes; my involvement dwindled, & so did my motivation.\r\n\r\nOn
  Saturday, I decided I would just give the idea a shot of not just copying the sans,
  but trying to design a <em>slab serif font</em> that would still be based on this
  one, albeit more loosely. I like monoline slabs, I like extended fonts, and I have
  never seen a slab with these proportions that does not look awful, so it seemed
  like enough of a challenge :). I did a quick pencil sketch of what it might look
  like, scaled it down on the photocopying machine, & was pretty amazed: this could
  work out really nicely (especially once I actually started drawing and wouldn't
  just stick serifs on the existing letters). :)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/slab_1_3781.jpg]\r\n\r\nSo,
  new plan: making a sans and a slab as a matching pair. No contrast in the slab either,
  similar proportions, not-too-huge serifs. To my big surprise, Andr\xE9 Baldinger
  (who is one of our teachers in this class) then suggested even starting out with
  the slab, & <em>then</em> moving on \"back\" to the sans. He said something in the
  vein that I need to emancipate myself from my model. I think that was the single
  best piece of advice I could possibly have gotten at this point.\r\n\r\nOn my way
  home, I thought about possible names for a typeface I could already vaguely picture
  in my mind. I got home around 8:30pm and continued drawing letters. Sitting there
  poring over the e and wondering if I could open it up more. So I did. I drew another
  e. An r, an n. I started inking in the letters to see them in black. I wondered
  about the g and if this would allow for a two-storey g. \r\nWhen I checked the clock,
  it was 2am.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/slab_3_5597.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/slab_4_6099.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/slab_2_4385.jpg]\r\n\r\nThese
  are obviously raw sketches (baseline is jumpy, sizes are off, so are weights, and
  I can't draw), but they capture pretty well the direction I want this to take. I
  admit I cheated with the proportions \u2013 the e looked horrible, I had to make
  it narrower, although I kind of liked the wider proportions. Will have to try and
  get that width back.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure about the two-storey g. This one is too
  bold, which makes it even more difficult to decide if it fits in; and it's also
  kind of, uh, badly drawn, and the ear is horrible. I guess I will decide about such
  things once I have more letters, and have really nailed the proportions. \r\nI think
  this version of the s works better than one with 'outside serifs'; also, the resulting
  flat curves of the s correspond to the e, which I've opened up quite a bit.\r\n\r\nIn
  general what I like about the slab idea is that serifs can balance out some of the
  differences in detailedness (uh) in this typeface. What I mean is, I really like
  the original a, g, and \xDF, but these letters don't really fit in with the rest
  of the typeface because they're so detailed (especially the \xDF). Once I add serifs,
  I figure this contrast between busy and boring letters might be easier to balance
  out. (Which does not mean I may not still change the \xDF.)\r\n\r\nI think what
  I love most about the slab project is that it does emancipate me from the original
  alphabet above \u2013 without me throwing the latter out the window."
comments:
- author:
    name: agostini
    picture: 111280
  body: "Hi altaire\r\ncould you give my the details of the course in zurich?\r\nAs
    i will go back home next year and was looking join\r\na type design course. Or
    is there anything in basel?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-19 22:46:06'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "J\xF6rg,\r\nUnfortunately, Basel is pretty much dead (or hibernating, hopefully),
    type design wise.\r\nClosest from Basel is the type design course in Zurich (<a
    href=\"http://vvk.zhdk.ch/castypo.html\">Website</a>), which is part-time (berufsbegleitend);
    it takes place on two days (Fri/Sat) every two weeks for two semesters (10 months
    or some such, from September to June or July). I only started about a month ago,
    so I can't say too much yet except that it's really good, although you'd likely
    learn even more if you can do a full time course (Reading or Den Haag).\r\nLet
    me know if you have any more specific questions, I'll be happy to answer them
    :)"
  created: '2008-10-19 22:57:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I decided I would just give the idea a shot of not just copying the sans,\r\n>
    but trying to design a slab serif font that would still be based on this\r\n>
    one, albeit more loosely.\r\n\r\nBeautiful.\r\n\r\nConcerning the \"g\" I would
    try these:\r\n1) A Koch \"g\"*, which we don't see nearly enough.\r\n2) Start
    the join just left of 6 o'clock (the very bottom of the bowl), keep the join short**,
    and make the end of the tail overshoot the join on the left.\r\n\r\n* http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/adobe/kabel/book/opentype-ps/386937/character/0067/CP2/1/\r\n\r\n**
    And probably make it angular.\r\n\r\nThat said, the form in the original is charming
    and distinctive, so I might go with that monocameral form, especially if this
    is a display face (see below). Emancipation is one thing, shunning is another.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    if you maintain that huge x-height, you need to either shoot for a display face
    (tight spacing), or shoot for small sizes (8 and under) and give it more weight.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-19 23:52:28'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "another idea is the g from Cheltenham:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/bitstream/cheltenham/cheltenham/opentype-tt/243952/character/0067/CP2/1/\r\n\r\ncheers"
  created: '2008-10-19 23:54:42'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Concerning the \"g\", huh. I must say that, and I feel quite unprofessional
    saying this, Kabel gives me the creeps. Seriously \u2013 that is one g I cannot
    stand looking at, so chances are pretty slight I'm going to use it. ;) To use
    a more serious objection, it is very constructed and I'm trying to get away from
    the geometric model a bit. (I know Koch has used the same principle for the \"g\"
    in other fonts that aren't as geometric, so there goes this line of argumentation,
    but I still can't stand it.)\r\n\r\nI'll try your second suggestion tomorrow (it's
    1am here, so no more work today), that sounds interesting, although I can't quite
    picture it yet.\r\n\r\nRegarding the original \"g\", that's quite interesting.
    It was one of my favorite letters from the beginning. Apparently it is also so
    distinctive that people either love it or hate it. Most people I've shown the
    original sample have commented on the g very quickly and in very extreme ways,
    favorable or not. So I'm not sure this g should be the default g at least \u2013
    also because it is distinctive in a way that recalls its historical roots (it
    feels very Jugendstil to me). \r\nI will definitely try and see how it works,
    though.\r\n\r\n<em>Also, if you maintain that huge x-height, you need to either
    shoot for a display face (tight spacing), or shoot for small sizes (8 and under)
    and give it more weight.</em>\r\n\r\nAah, unsolved question number one. I kind
    of like that extreme x-height, but you're right in that it does suggest being
    used for either very large, or very small sizes. And I have to admit that picturing
    actual uses for this font is totally beyond me at the moment. I guess I have to
    do some more thinking there. ;->"
  created: '2008-10-20 00:03:26'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thanks, Simon \u2013 the Cheltenham g is indeed quite interesting in this
    context! I'll try that out and see if I can manage to squish that descender into
    the almost non existant space (maybe I should enlarge the ascenders and descenders
    after all \u2026)."
  created: '2008-10-20 00:06:02'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em> Once I add serifs, I figure this contrast between busy and boring letters
    might be easier to balance out.</em>\r\n\r\nThe potential flaw in this argument
    is that you're also making the busier letters even busier, since they're getting
    serifs, too. (And letters like o and e remain as \"boring\" as originally, so
    arguably you're *increasing* the range of busyness.) \r\n\r\nI agree with Hrant,
    the one-story g is one of the more likable letters in the original font; seems
    to me like you're struggling to find a solution to a problem you don't need to
    have.\r\n\r\nIt's also a good point to think of a target size for this. That would
    help decide whether and what size serifs, I imagine."
  created: '2008-10-20 00:08:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> people either love it or hate it.\r\n\r\nAs Spiekermann has expressed many
    times (concerning the \"g\" in Meta) that's often exactly what you want! When
    people argue about something, that's superb free publicity. And love* from a minority
    is much better than tepidity from a majority. Dieu vomit les tiedes.\r\n\r\n*
    Which I personally believe cannot exist without hate.\r\n\r\n> picturing actual
    uses for this font is totally beyond me\r\n\r\nThe more experience you have, the
    more that's OK, because your instincts can tell you if something is viable if
    your logic is unwilling. In your case, even though your speedy progress seems
    impressive, I would suggest deciding which way to go before doing too much more
    work. Making an interpolated weight range and postponing the decision on the final
    weight(s) is often a great idea, but spacing does affect the ideal letter bodies
    greatly.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-20 00:16:09'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"And letters like o and e remain as \u201Cboring\u201D as originally,
    so arguably you\u2019re *increasing* the range of busyness.\"</em>\r\nShoot, that's
    true. I forgot about the letters that don't get serifs, and thought of it as \"raising
    the overall level of busyness by the degree of serifs\", but obviously that's
    not true.\r\nStill, when I scaled that first sketch down, I liked the busier overall
    impression and felt it makes the font more lively, so that certain \"busy details\"
    at least don't get all the attention by themselves ;).\r\n\r\n<em>\"As Spiekermann
    has said a number of times (concerning the \u201Cg\u201D in Meta) that\u2019s
    often exactly what you want! When people argue about something, that\u2019s superb
    free publicity. And love* from a minority is much better than tepidity from a
    majority.\"</em>\r\nThat's probably a good point :) \u2013 plus, it makes people
    remember your typeface. \"Oh, that's the one with the weird g?\"\r\nI'll try that
    again, definitely. I'll just try to avoid that horrible Dracula-esque underbite
    it has in that first sketch up there, where I tried both \"g\"s.\r\n\r\n<em>\"Dieu
    vomit les tiedes.\"</em>\r\nHow true."
  created: '2008-10-20 00:24:40'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Great work! I really enjoy reading your posts about this project. I think
    that you made the right decision when you chose to design a slab instead of a
    revival. Before you go with the two-story <strong>g</strong> consider using the
    single-story design and playing more with the design of the serif. Some sort of
    odd angle on an already interesting design might lead to something special!
  created: '2008-10-20 01:26:29'
- author:
    name: agostini
    picture: 111280
  body: "cheers altaire\r\nI will have a proper read after work..."
  created: '2008-10-20 03:31:08'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "James,\r\nWhen you say play with the design of the serif on the g, do you
    mean the ear or the terminal of the descender? (I don't even know if it's possible,
    or makes sense, to have a serif on the descender, but I like the analogy to having
    a serif on the top part [hook?] of the a.)\r\nThanks for your comments!"
  created: '2008-10-20 06:34:05'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Other options for a two-story g that may be worth considering:\r\n\r\n1)
    make the upper bowl very small (and not wide) and rely on the lower, enlarged
    bowl to match the width of the other letters.\r\n\r\n2) an unfinished lower bowl,
    as can be seen in this [[http://www.forthehearts.net/Kulby|\"Kulby\"]] font.\r\n\r\nI
    have my doubts whether either of these would be workable stylistically with the
    existing alphabet, but you may want to play around with them."
  created: '2008-10-22 21:33:46'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Cool, interesting suggestions! The \"unfinished\" one would be a \"Danish
    g\", right?\r\nI'm looking forward to playing around with the different g shapes
    \u2013 a bicameral g is an incredibly exciting thing to be approaching for the
    first time :-). I do kind of suspect the monocameral one makes more sense in this
    font, but I'll need some more letters to judge that. (I'm currently in the office
    work part of my week, but will be delving into this again tomorrow & in the weekend.)"
  created: '2008-10-23 07:52:33'
- author:
    name: axian
    picture: 110101
  body: It looks an awful lot like Zeppelin by Storm Type. Turning it into slab would
    be... interesting.
  created: '2008-10-25 07:25:24'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Uhh! Thanks for pointing out Zeppelin. Hadn't seen that before. :-/\r\n\r\nI've
    seen slabs with those kinds of proportions on old posters, hand-drawn stuff, but
    not in digital form \u2026 we'll see. I do like the slab idea; though at the moment
    I'm battling the technical problems of not being able to draw a smooth m. It's
    a wicked learning process ;-)"
  created: '2008-10-27 08:37:31'
- author:
    name: tesa
  body: "hallo, interesting project you\xB4re working on. Sorry ich schreib mal auf
    deutsch das ist leichter.. also ne serif version daraus zu machen kann ich mir
    ganz gut vorstellen. Aber ehrlich gesagt, so sch\xF6n es f\xFCr sich ist, passt
    dein kleines g nicht so recht dazu, bei den geringen unterl\xE4ngen sieht es arg
    gequetscht aus. Da solltest du meiner Meinung nach lieber drauf verzichten, ein
    solches g einzuf\xFChern. Die Serifen k\xF6nnten auch noch winziger sein und vielleicht
    abgerundet? Ich finde die Modernit\xE4t des Orginals k\xF6nnte durch zu starke
    Serifen etwas verloren gehen. Aber ein sch\xF6nes Projekt, ich bin auch ganz beeindruckt
    von deiner Gedult das alles per Hand zu zeichnen.. oder ist das beim Baldinger
    ein mu\xDF? Ich hab auch mal Bleisatz gemacht, das war ganz meditativ irgendwann..
    f\xFCr nen Entwurf ist das sicherlich auch besser, aber dann kommts doch auf die
    details an.\r\nWeiter so! Ist ganz spannend! \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-08 19:13:58'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Danke f\xFCr den Kommentar! Handzeichnen hab ich jetzt erstmal aufgegeben
    \u2013 ich bin da einfach zu langsam, zu obsessiv und zu ungenau. Von Baldinger
    kam das weniger mit dem Handzeichnen, er arbeitet meines Wissens eher digital,
    w\xE4hrend Hunziker (die beiden unterrichten den Projektunterricht gemeinsam bzw.
    abwechselnd) sehr vom Handzeichnen her kommt. Gemeint ist das auf jeden Fall so,
    dass man intensiv mit Handzeichnungen anf\xE4ngt, aber am Ende, denke ich, muss
    ja auch jeder seinen Workflow finden und ich komme da am Screen halt schon immer
    besser klar (obsessiv bin ich auch da, aber ich verzweifle nicht ganz so schnell
    ;-) ).\r\n\r\nSo just to follow this through in English, I put my sketches on
    a big pile and actually started building letters in FontLab today \u2013 which
    was hugely liberating! I'm just too brainy sometimes, and tend to agonize over
    details & decisions forever instead of just trying them out (for which the pen
    & paper definitely felt like more of a barrier than the screen, even FontLab,
    is now). I've been playing around, trying stuff, finding some shapes and details
    I actually (roughly) like, and please forget about that metal face because it's
    fading into the distance quite rapidly.\r\n\r\nThe funny thing is I just re-read
    this thread, as well as <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/50660\">the one about
    the Ss serifs</a>, and what many of you said to me almost two months ago makes
    perfect sense now. I guess I was just too much in agonizing and brainalyzing mode
    back then.\r\nSo, I will be back with this \u2026 shortly. :)"
  created: '2008-12-11 23:18:41'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Hrant said, two and a half months ago:\r\n<em>Concerning the \u201Cg\u201D
    I would try these:\r\n1) A Koch \u201Cg\u201D*, which we don\u2019t see nearly
    enough.</em>\r\n\r\nThe craziest thing just happened.\r\nYou know how it is when
    you hate spinach as a kid, & then avoid spinach for years and years until at some
    point, you get into this awkward situation where you just can't refuse it \u2013
    and then you realize it's actually really, really good! And then of course, you've
    missed half a lifetime of spinach.\r\nI had that with the Kabel g last night.
    Totally crazy. That is one wild and wicked g! And here was I thinking all the
    time that it was 'ugly', just because it was different. Very, very strange. \r\n(I
    hope that doesn't happen with the Rotis e, otherwise I'll get worried.)\r\n\r\nI
    started making g's at some point last night, and next thing I knew it was morning.
    (-:  I now have seven different g's; I think two or three of those may be usable
    (though of course they're not uh, final yet). I actually really like the Kabel-based
    ones (although I still have to figure out how to make them look less like Kabel
    itself).\r\nYeeh, I did Souvenir too. More for fun and to try out more variants\_\u2026
    It's, uhm, enormous.\r\n\r\nOh, I lengthened the ascenders and descenders. Considerably.\r\n\r\nWill
    post the complete lc alphabet, hopefully, within the next few days (m, v, w, x,
    y, & z are still missing). Until then, here are a few g's.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gagging_3503.jpg]"
  created: '2009-01-05 11:00:38'
- author:
    name: nora g
    picture: 113099
  body: Hi Nina, nice work! in my opinion it is the g in the fourth line on the left
    side that works well, and even better, the g in the second line on the right side.
    Good luck!
  created: '2009-01-05 11:18:12'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thank you, Nora. :-)  \r\nI must admit I like the one on the bottom left
    too, but the problem is it doesn't work at small sizes. I'm pretty close to abandoning
    the concept of at least a 'classically shaped' bicameral g in this font, since
    I'm aiming to make this work for small text."
  created: '2009-01-05 11:46:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nina, I had the same thing with eggplant (a staple\r\nfood of my maternal
    grandparents' village, Urfa).\r\n\r\nKoch \"g\": I remember my first impression
    was not positive, but then I realized it's da bomb for lo-fi work. And recently
    I've been getting a strong vibe that it will become stylistically very du jour
    before the end of the decade. You heard it here first.  :-)\r\n\r\nIn the ones
    you've made, the spike in top two of the right column are clashing; you might
    try a more stubby form there. I think the bottom one of the right column might
    turn out ideal, but the head does need to be smaller. And the second one on the
    left is still a very strong candidate.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-05 19:25:50'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Hrant! Eggplant rocks. My main problem was this <a href=\"http://www.restaurantgalerie.ch/essen_trinken/vermicelle.JPG\">sweet
    chestnut paste dessert</a>.\r\n\r\nThanks for the pointers. You're right of course
    about those spikes, I took them back. \r\nYou really like the Souvenir-style one?
    I'm kinda torn there. But, I'll put some more work into it and see if I can make
    it work.\r\n\r\nAt the moment, I'd probably feel best with the second one on the
    left as the standard g. I'd also very much like to put in a Kabel-ish one. Although
    I'll be curious what everyone will say once I post the rest of the letters."
  created: '2009-01-06 09:45:40'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: I just uploaded the full lowercase alphabet, v1, <a href="http://typophile.com/node/53395">here</a>.
  created: '2009-01-12 23:20:18'
date: '2008-10-19 22:21:18'
node_type: blog
title: 'Sans to slab: First sketches'

---
