---
author:
  name: Chris Allen
body: "Afternoon all,\r\n\r\nI'm currently looking at how the study of the effects
  of [[aesthetics]] on [[legibility]] can help to improve the reader experience.\r\n\r\nNow
  I know this is a very much debated area, the whole area of \"how do you measure
  legibility\" (of which http://typophile.com/node/41365 is a great thread), and the
  fact that aesthetics are subjective (as I believe is legibility to a point - reader
  preference, familiarity, etc.).\r\n\r\nWhat I am looking at, is if the conducting
  of legibility tests, followed by subjective aesthetics tests (in which various samples
  would be created with varying levels of creative elements and the same tests applied
  as in the legibility studies as well as preference, etc.) to see if it is possible
  to find a balance point between the two. The theory is that if you can find a point
  where the legibility is maximised, and then find the point where the aesthetics
  don't negatively affect the legibility, then you can effectively improve the reader
  experience.\r\n\r\nMy thought behind the possible application of this is in uses
  such as study materials and required reading. For example if you can increase the
  aesthetics to a point where they are maximised without decreasing the legibility
  of the text, can you in theory improve the reader experience, and would it have
  an additional effect on other aspects; retention, comprehension.\r\n\r\nI know this
  possibly sounds a little vague, but I'm really interested in people's thoughts on
  this.\r\n\r\nThanks   "
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/clockwork_big_3484.jpg]'
  created: '2008-10-23 18:24:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/four_5747.png]'
  created: '2008-10-23 18:26:23'
- author:
    name: uppercaseH
    picture: 115755
  body: Wow, what is that woodcut?
  created: '2008-10-23 19:16:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It's by Reynolds Stone.\r\n\r\nMore here:\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/31775\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-23 21:32:57'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Nick's got the right idea. Be sure to play Beethoven during the testing.
    ;-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-23 22:56:08'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Screw it. Who needs to read anyhow.\r\n\r\n(aek chew alley, I agree with
    you that aesthetics are an important component of legibility. They're also what
    gets left out of any legibility testing I'm aware of. It is absolutely crucial
    to any understanding of legibility, readin' ritin' and comprehension in general.
    Aesthetics is the part of design that gets dismissed immediately by those folks
    who want to figure out how reading works. After all, designers just want to make
    things look attractive and beautiful, right?, And this gets in the way of real
    scientific understanding. Right?. But really - what is, or, are aesthetics, other
    than the way we humans tend to like to have things organized so that we can comprehend
    them. A chart, or a dense passage of text that can be described as \"Pleasing
    to the eye\" is probably better, i.e. more readable and comprehensible than one
    that could be described as \"A dog's breakfast\". \r\n\r\nBut, how do you test
    for the aesthetic component in any credible way without spending hundreds of thousands
    of dollars? In all seriousness, more like Millions of dollars. It's not a small
    problem. I do know how far a hundred grand will get you and that's really not
    much to write home about. Personally, I think that good designer or artists understand
    aesthetics in their bones. It's a non verbal kind of intelligence and unless the
    results of any such research are applied to further developing those skills for
    \ future designers, I really don't see the point. Scientifically design type is
    like scientifically through basket balls... You may know all the physics, but
    it doesn't mean you can through a ball. \r\n\r\n  \r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-10-24 03:12:54'
- author:
    name: Chris Allen
  body: "Russell -\r\n\r\nInteresting comments you make there, especially those about
    the cost of the aesthetics testing. Do you think it's possible though to look
    at these criteria on a case by case basis and then build almost a kind of process
    for creating reading materials that maximise the reader experience whilst retaining
    the highest possible level of legibility. Maybe it's more from a user testing
    perspective rather than a definitive 'these are aesthetics' perspective?\r\n\r\n<em>Aesthetics
    is the part of design that gets dismissed immediately by those folks who want
    to figure out how reading works</em>\r\n\r\nThis is part of my frustrations also,
    and the idea is to look to see if you can keep a partial focus on the aesthetics,
    so when it comes to layout and design of the material as opposed to just the 'science'
    of the text, you can ensure that the legibility isn't compromised. It's all born
    out of a frustration with complying with standards and legibility, and how you
    can make them work together.\r\n\r\nSorry if I'm rambling, I've currently got
    the lurgy and am not thinking quite straight! "
  created: '2008-10-24 09:37:14'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "uh, oops. what I meant to type at the end was: \r\n\r\n\"Scientifically designing
    type is like scientifically throwing basket balls... Knowing all the physics doesn\u2019t
    mean you can throw a ball. \"\r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-10-24 16:23:43'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "In the article <cite>Measuring the reading experience</cite> in Typo Magazine
    Issue 22, I wrote about my experiences in attempting to measure aesthetic aspects
    of typography. It\u2019s known that people perform better on cognitive tasks after
    being induced into a good mood by receiving a gift or seeing something pleasing.
    I examined if it was possible to do this with typography and found improvements
    both on the candle task (a cognitive task) and a reduction in the amount of activity
    in the corrugator (frowning) muscle after reading with better typography.\r\n\r\nIt
    doesn\u2019t cost millions of dollars to do this. In fact I did a live demonstration
    of this effect at ATypI in Helsinki with the remote associates task (a different
    cognitive task). After listening to me drone on for a while, I asked the audience
    to find the word in common with <cite>swiss, cottage, and cake</cite> (answer
    = cheese). Perhaps half of the audience found the correct answer. Then after listening
    to the highly entertaining Herr Spiekermann for a minute, I asked the audience
    to find a different remote associate, which about three quarters of the audience
    found. It didn\u2019t cost a penny to run.\r\n\r\nCheers, Kevin\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-24 16:56:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...after reading with better typography...</em>\r\n\r\nWhat were the
    two type specs?"
  created: '2008-10-24 18:57:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nick's image post likens to An Andalusian Dog.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AndalusianDog_3947.jpg]\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-24 19:10:20'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "<cite>What were the two type specs?</cite>\r\n\r\nThere are five studies
    with 3 different pairs of document styles discussed in the article. One pair is
    of good and poor page layout including good and poor image placement. Another
    pair either included or omitted OpenType layout features such as ligatures and
    small caps. The third pair had either reasonable h&j, or had severe problems with
    rivers. There are pictures of the document styles in the Typo article.\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-24 20:44:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Kevin,\r\nI have not seen studies showing benefits of layout since Ulm Hochscule
    fur Gestaltung journals of the late 1950s [written by Gui Bonsieppe]. Do you know
    of any more research in that area being done? There are loads of stuff on legibility
    but little on typographic layout.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-10-24 22:17:44'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "There is a lot of work on typographic layout by Tinker & Patterson, Luckiesh
    & Moss, and others from the 20s to the 60s, but quite a bit less since then. I\u2019m
    not familiar with everything that\u2019s been done recently, but Mary Dyson at
    University of Reading has focused much work on typographic layout including line
    length."
  created: '2008-10-24 23:26:00'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "There is also the unnecessarily maligned research by Song & Schwarz showing
    that your perception of the content itself is impacted by the typeface used. This
    is another interesting way to study the experience of reading a document.\r\n\r\n<a>http://typophile.com/node/46304</a>\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-25 00:14:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks, Kevin!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-10-25 01:04:20'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "re the cost... Granted, Kevin - All I know about the cost of research has
    to do with a single project, that was too way expensive and not very productive
    of useful information. Still, I can extrapolate from that, and say that if one
    got, say 10% of a useful result at one price, then a wild guess at the cost of
    100% a useful result will be at least 10 time as much. :o)\r\n\r\nI think that
    perhaps what your experiment at ATypI showed was that what most of us already
    intuit from personal and professional experience is valid and common to all of
    us and it's measurable. But where does one go from there? To prove that rocket
    prolusion actually works, all you need is a balloon, but building on that knowledge
    enough to get to the moon is not going to come cheap. \r\n\r\nNot that anyone
    really needs to go to the moon. :o)\r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-10-25 04:42:51'
- author:
    name: Chris Allen
  body: "Kevin - Thanks some really insightful comments there, I shall have to look
    up your article, hopefully we have that journal at the uni where I work, as for
    the other authors you mentioned, are there any particular articles by them that
    you know of, or is a general search the best way forward?\r\n\r\nAs far as I am
    aware with Mary Dyson's research the focus is more on screen factors, but does
    cover a wide and very interesting range of subjects. I think it might be interesting
    to see how her results and findings translate to print?"
  created: '2008-10-25 06:30:29'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...the unnecessarily maligned research by Song & Schwarz...\"\r\nIt would
    be fascinating to hear when Kevlar could condone necessary malignment in his field,
    if not here. A two-font, one-document, 20 or so 20-something subjects, dead-end
    studied to within one thin human hair thickness of anecdotal, and he loves it!\r\n\r\n\"...showing
    that your perception of the content itself is impacted by the typeface used...\"\r\nNO
    KIDDING!? Song & Schwarz doesn't do that though, preferring to let the results
    become muddied by badly conceived type selection and by badly implemented type
    composition.\r\n\r\n\"Arial is the best font for reading\"  (says Song). 'Nuff
    said? Maybe not. How does finding a remote associate via presentation, have anything
    whatsoever to do with reading? \r\n\r\nThere now, I've strained my left corrugator
    muscle.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-26 14:54:18'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "There are ways to criticize every study, but sometimes it's more useful to
    talk about the positive aspects of projects.\r\n\r\nThe question being discussed
    is how to measure aesthetics. The typographic conditions in the Song & Schwarz
    may not be terribly useful, but along with the studies I wrote about in Typo,
    these are possible methodologies for measuring the reading experience that go
    beyond letter legibility and reading speed measurements. With these methodologies
    you could use your own typographic expertise to compare conditions that you find
    interesting. It's a choice between improving on the existing research or criticizing
    from the peanut gallery.\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-26 22:38:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "What can one say about scientists when they study an area of human endeavour
    and discover and \"prove\" what has been common knowledge for hundreds of years,
    to the point of being a banality? By way of apology for their abject tunnel vision,
    one might say that their methodology is correct, and that they should be encouraged
    to improve. Raise your game, indeed! \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/isaac1_5358.jpg]"
  created: '2008-10-27 01:29:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Scientists do science, which is a methodology that tends to limit the scope
    of individual experiments so as to ensure a solid basis for furture work, rather
    than overreaching itself. This narrow experimental focus may indeed look like
    'tunnel vision', and it often guaranteed to make any individual experiment appear
    either insignificant or banal to an outside observer, especially one who may have
    extensive practical or anecdotal experience of the thing being studied. But the
    point of any individual experiment is not to answer a grand question, but to see
    whether the result contradicts or supports the results of other experiments. And
    occasionally the results will contradict the beliefs of the non-scientific practitioner,
    and that's when things get interesting for the rest of us.
  created: '2008-10-27 01:52:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>This narrow experimental focus may indeed look like \u2019tunnel vision\u2019,</em>\r\n\r\nI
    wasn't conflating a particular instance of tunnel vision (Song & Schwartz) with
    the scientific method in general.\r\n\r\nHowever, I do think that Blake's <em>Newton</em>
    is relevant.\r\nDesigners have tried to reduce type design to mathematical principle
    for centuries, but it never works."
  created: '2008-10-27 05:15:12'
- author:
    name: nora g
    picture: 113099
  body: 'There is a quote of Paul Renner (he of all people ;-), but I don''t know
    the correct translation in english: The believe in counting and measuring seduces
    to mistakes in all kind of arts.'
  created: '2008-10-27 09:23:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "For me science measures only what it sees in nature. Behavioral science only
    measures what it thinks it sees in human behavior. Humans often think and do things
    that are not visible or measurable. The products developed by humans can be analyzed
    by science after creation but not until then. Measuring a product after creation
    does not necessarily yield a path for science to create a better product of a
    similar kind. Patterned simplification can lead to measurable malfunction.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-10-27 16:08:25'
- author:
    name: Chris Allen
  body: "There are some really interesting things being said here. [as a designer]
    I can understand the frustration of trying to reduce design & typography to a
    set formula, it does in some ways take the creativity out of design, but could
    you also use it for the reverse effect?\r\n\r\nI'm quite interested as it would
    appear that some of the views here are against using scientific research at all
    in the design process. Considering this, do you feel that the science could fit
    into the process, even if it is just to create a process? Does anyone feel that
    the research would be useful in qualifying design choices to clients, after all,
    I know how annoying it is when a clients only qualifying statement is \"because
    I like it\".\r\n\r\nDo you think you could do a study into the emotional reaction
    to a typeface, a simple \"what feeling does it conjure for you?\" to see if there
    is a correlation between opinions to help inform typographic choices? \r\n\r\nPlease
    bear in mind that I'm in no way suggesting that scientific or subjective market
    research should take over from intuitive decisions on the part of the designer,
    after all, it is what the training is for, but how do you guys feel about this?
    \ "
  created: '2008-10-27 17:54:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "What Chris said.\r\nMarket research and product development can use scientific
    principles to test how well a design <em>might</em> work.\r\nBut how a creative
    product tests (which may be compared to polling) and how it performs when launched
    are two different things.\r\nThere's no such thing as a sure thing, and sequels
    are rarely as good as the original.\r\nThere's no substitute for 10,000 hours
    of experience."
  created: '2008-10-27 18:43:31'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>Science once told us that Plato was a Planet; now it says, not so.</em>\r\n\r\nWasn't
    it <em>Philosophy</em> that told us that, not Science? ;-)"
  created: '2008-10-27 20:00:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Science can havr its place and its value. We must, however, guard against
    results being presented as scientific being placed on a pedestal and viewed as
    absolute truth because the name \"Science\" has been attached to it. Science once
    told us that Pluto was a Planet; now it says, not so. I don't pretend to know
    which conclusion is correct but it is clear that scientists can error as much
    as the rest of us. All scientific results need to be scrutinized and questioned.
    All research methods and procedures need to be examined and questioned without
    being held in awe. To me, the biggest issue is that the conclusions that are drawn
    from data are made by humans. The data may be correct but the conclusion may be
    wrong. If data tells me that regressions in reading are greater when a reader
    comes across a word in italic, that may indicate that italic is harder to read
    or it may also tell us that the reader is pausing to contemplate why that word
    is in italics or just triggers a memory like \"I remember reading that book in
    college.\" Both may be true but how do we know? There is judgement in analyzing
    data just as there is in designing a glyph visually. Either can be misjudged.
    The difference is that we just say the designer made a human error while we are
    not so quick to be as critical of anything residing  in the realm of science.\r\n\r\n
    ChrisL"
  created: '2008-10-27 20:47:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Whoops, that was supposed to be Pluto! I just corrected it but now my post
    moved down to the bottom :-/\r\n\r\nSorry!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-10-27 20:50:00'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'Chris, the kind of test you are talking about is too all embracing to be
    realistic/useful as a scientific test. I think you can do useful science in support
    of typography but ideally it should be done in consultation with type designers
    so that it is not as naive as it has often been historically. But similarly, all
    this gnashing of teeth about scientists coming in to stamp all over our nice typographic
    grass  is a bit silly as well and frankly just as naive. '
  created: '2008-10-28 08:05:56'
- author:
    name: Chris Allen
  body: "Eben - I'm completely aware that the second half of the tests are very subjective
    and don't really constitute a scientific test, but the idea is that if you were
    to couple these with scientific tests for reading speed, comprehension, retention,
    etc. then you could use them to an advantage. I'm trying to find if there is a
    benefit in using subjective aesthetics testing to benefit the scientific part
    of the research, the 'case study' part being \"can it benefit the reader experience\"\r\n\r\nI
    understand the need to include type designers, or at least designers who are aware
    of the essentials of type design. I am a graphic designer with a strong interest
    in typography, I am working on designing my own typefaces, and also work a lot
    with graffiti and handwriting (one of my interests is the crossover that these
    have with typography, where the lines blur, etc.) so I'm not <strong>too</strong>
    naive, but I don't profess to know all about the area.\r\n\r\nI don't think this
    'teeth gnashing' is all naive and silly, as it tells a lot about how the designers
    feel about the process. You get to the point where you can find out exactly <strong>why</strong>
    they feel like this and then you can find a way either around, or to turn this
    to the advantage and use it to aid the process. Surely that's of benefit, analysing
    problems to find solutions?"
  created: '2008-10-28 09:06:13'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">I\u2019m trying to find if there is a benefit in using subjective aesthetics
    testing to benefit the scientific part of the research, the \u2019case study\u2019
    part being \u201Ccan it benefit the reader experience\u201D<\r\n\r\nThis is excellent.
    But it is completely wrong. However, the fix is simple: simply invert it to 'the
    case study part being \"do [good aesthetics] <em>detract</em> from the reader
    experience?\"'\r\n\r\nIt stands to reason that good aesthetics are noticeable
    as such, and the time spent noticing them will be time wasted on admiring aesthetics
    when all time spent reading needs to be spent . . . reading.\r\n\r\nThe problem
    with type designers today is that they are obsessed with harmonious aesthetics
    to the detriment of readability. Graphic design is not, in many respects, a good
    foundation for readable type design. Because what the graphic designer finds beautiful,
    harmonious and attention-getting is a thrust that does not relate at all to what
    the reader finds easy to read. \r\n\r\nI see graphic design as being primarily
    about a kind of macro experience and type design as being primarily a kind of
    micro experience. (That's a very bad way of expressing it but the best I can do
    at this moment -- enough maybe to get the germ of the idea across?) This was brought
    home to me when I had a glance at Paul Hunt's Reading project. The typeface seems
    to have tentacles that want to reach into the very fibres of the paper. Here,
    I thought, one could see a design axis, a design will, a design theory, a design
    practice, a praxis, that was relevant to <em>reading</em>.\r\n\r\nIt was brought
    home to me in a different way when I saw a large dual column edition of Shaw's
    essays set magnificently in metal Fournier. The pages all but read themselves.
    \r\n\r\nThe moral of that experience was one I have felt was paramount since I
    first tried to design type: nobody, nobody, nobody, is ever going to get <em>reading</em>
    until they start designing single-size fonts. A single master used at multiple
    sizes is always a fatally maimed 'monstrico'. Nor is there the slightest justification
    for single-master/multiple size fonts other than money, money, money. \r\n\r\nYou
    can ask: 'where is the money for us to design single-size fonts? We can't afford
    to spend ten years, rather than one, on a text design that only a few will buy.'\r\n\r\nMaybe
    the answer lies in T.S. Eliot's prescription that the poet needs to have a job
    separate from poetry.\r\n\r\nCertainly, if you look at what is happening today,
    with the designers who <em>are</em> designing single size type, that is what happens.
    Two examples: Robert Slimbach's new Garamond (which with four entirely separate
    optical multiple masters can be permitted, for this argument, to count as single-size)
    was designed <em>entirely in his spare time</em> over a period of many years.
    In this he is still following the direction of Sumner Stone who cannot possibly
    be making enough money from the great Cycles family to compensate him for the
    endless thousands of hours of development and sheer <em>being</em> that it cost
    over a period of more than a decade, and continues to cost. \r\n\r\nSo I guess
    my larger point is that there is no point in talking about readability until you
    have thought through some of the obstacles to readability which have been set
    in motion by the direction that typeface design has taken since, roughly, 1960. "
  created: '2008-10-28 12:49:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"the kind of test you are talking about is too all embracing to be realistic/useful
    as a scientific test.\"...\r\n\r\nEben, of course it is! That is my point and
    it is not the scientists fault. The reason more tests are not done and that more
    useful results don't come out is that there are so many variables to control,
    which are so far not possible to control, as to make both the test too complex
    or the data too vague. Other issues are that there is very little financial support
    for this arena of work and the potential of monetary profit is small.\r\n\r\n\"all
    this gnashing of teeth about scientists coming in to stamp all over our nice typographic
    grass is a bit silly as well and frankly just as naive.\"\r\n\r\nWho said that
    scientists are coming in and taking our turf? Not me. Scientists are not coming
    in and there is very little work done in the area of typography. My beef is not
    with the scientists--there are several in my family. My beef is with the rest
    of us who jump beyond the scientists conclusions and give the studies greater
    weight than even the scientists who made them. Scientists are not afraid to question
    each other but we are afraid to question results or to limit the scope of results
    to the level intended by the scientists. Scientists work incrementally. They take
    a small piece of the puzzle and analyze what bits they can and build upon the
    previous work done by others, Other scientists take different chunks either independently
    or cooperatively. After years, there is a body of work which others look at objectively
    and may prompt yet another study. This goes on for years. The scientists are not
    in awe of each other; they just work and read what others have published.\r\n\r\nWe
    all need to stop being so full of ourselves and just look at our role pragmatically,
    even naively. When we pull and push control points about in FontLab, we are experimenting,
    too. It may not be rigorous scientific method but we control some variable and
    change others. I have prattled long enough.\r\n \r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-10-28 13:00:04'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/41577\">Legibility vs. Comfort</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/29048\">Reading Research: What is needed?</a>\r\nand
    maybe even\r\n<a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/5908\">Display v. Text</a>"
  created: '2008-10-28 15:22:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Paul,\r\nAh, yes, back in the day when we had meaningful discussions here
    on Typophile :-)\r\nThanks for finding those threads!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-10-28 15:36:47'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Kevlar:\"It\u2019s a choice between improving on the existing research or
    criticizing from the peanut gallery.\"\r\n\r\n...oh let's not forget the peanut
    gallery, the Other... who actually measure the humans of specific groups and outfit
    them with aesthetics to fit. Or, who you callin' peanut gallery, peanut gallery's
    peanut gallery? ;)\r\n\r\nCA: \"...it would appear that some of the views here
    are against using scientific research at all in the design process.\"\r\n\r\nOn
    the contrary, that is how we work: the client feels dark we lighten the type,
    the clients feel happy we put on the swash. Seriously though, our process of outfitting
    clients with fonts, a subset of the font selection process for sure, is a scientific
    progress from an unknown through a growing known, to an optimized legible aesthetic
    for some kind of foreseen reader experience. We do not do this arbitrarily, but
    rather progress from small to large glyph repertoires, one to more styles, and
    from general to specific composition, in search of specific complimentary and
    contrasting typographic aesthetics, to reach that foreseen reader experience.\r\n\r\nI
    am against most reading research that does not involve reading. I have never been
    against good scientific research, which I define for one thing, as offering identification
    of the type(s) used, and the composition(s) and includes in the results, these
    specifications and examples of the typography as presented to the study subjects.
    I have also never been against good scientific research on scientific research
    on design legibility and aesthetics, as Kevlar talks a lot about. But as one can
    see, sometimes, some forget where the peanut gallery is, and where the use of
    scientific research is just another live wire in the design business.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-28 15:38:36'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Chris: <em>We must, however, guard against results being presented as scientific
    being placed on a pedestal and viewed as absolute truth because the name \u201CScience\u201D
    has been attached to it. Science once told us that Pluto was a Planet; now it
    says, not so. I don\u2019t pretend to know which conclusion is correct but it
    is clear that scientists can error as much as the rest of us.</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    reclassification of Pluto isn't evidence of scientific error: it is evidence of
    science being done. Scientists are the least likely people to put scientific results
    on a pedestal, since they <em>know</em> that future science will probably demonstrate
    the inaccuracies in those results."
  created: '2008-10-28 16:56:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>where is the money for us to design single-size fonts?</em>\r\n\r\nI've
    designed several, some as commissions, some as retail.\r\nFor instance, a text
    font for the Globe and Mail newspaper, and a revival of a 19th century book face.\r\n\r\nOf
    course, people will use them at sizes other than for what they were originally
    created.\r\nHowever, that is their prerogative.\r\nThe idea that a typeface will
    only work at a given size is mistaken, because it ignores the contribution of
    the typographer, and the effect that different layouts, media, and reading environments
    have on the effect of type and process of reading, not to mention the variability
    of reading skills and style, and content.\r\n\r\nThis is not to say that the idea
    of size-specific fonts is wrong, just that text fonts work within ranges, and
    the specification is as much the typographer's as the foundry's--and online, the
    reader's. Isn't this appropriately post-modern for the 21st century, multiple
    authorship?"
  created: '2008-10-28 17:13:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "John,\r\nI quite agree! Scientists are NOT the problem, WE are. Perhaps you
    missed my other comment a few posts below the one you quoted: \"Scientists are
    not afraid to question each other but we are afraid to question results or to
    limit the scope of results to the level intended by the scientists\"\r\nAn example
    of what I mean is a recent quote taken out of context. There was a study done
    regarding screen fonts on web sites. The only fonts tested were bundled fonts
    in certain screen read situations. The quote taken out of context said something
    to the effect \"therefore, Arial is the best font for reading\" leaving out all
    the conditions of the study and making the reader think that Arial is the best
    font for reading anything anywhere anytime. The researcher did not say or intend
    this but never the less some non-scientist (I can't recall but I think he was
    an editor of some sort) jumped all over it and took it as god's gospel because
    it was \"science\". You can be sure that a true scientist would have been quick
    to point out his error.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-10-28 17:50:36'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\u201CThe reclassification of Pluto isn\u2019t evidence of scientific error:
    it is evidence of science being done.\u201D [John Hudson]\r\n\r\nThis obscures
    the fact that nothing new about Pluto was actually revealed (though it seemed
    at first that someting new about Plato was being proposed): the reclassification
    of Pluto had to do with a redefinition of planethood. Taking this into the realm
    of metaphor though, if Socrates was the sun, might Plato not be admitted to planethood
    after all?\r\nSee: http://www.space.com/scienceastronomy/060824_planet_definition.html\r\n\r\nHow
    my comment about reclassification on account of redefinition applies to the issue
    at hand is that, if legibility or readbility are operationalized in terms of eye
    movement patterns (saccadic amplitude and the absence of regressios), or ease
    of visual word form resolution (as quantified by the size of the word superiority
    effect), rather than simple reading speed, or the simple <em>discrimination affordance</em>
    of letter shapes under compromised conditions caused by distance or illumination,
    what counts as a legible or readible font might be expanded or contracted or reclassified.\r\n\r\nImproving
    the reader\u2019s experience can of course involve all of these things, but often
    includes much more, including introducing elements that enhance expressive specificity
    but have measurable \u2014 but non-fatal \u2014 perceptual processing costs. Some
    of the \u2018much more\u2019 might only be accessible to anecdotal report."
  created: '2008-10-28 22:40:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"including introducing elements that enhance expressive specificity but
    have measurable \u2014 but non-fatal \u2014 perceptual processing costs. \"\r\n\r\nWell
    said, Peter!\r\n\r\nWhen the elements of a fonts design or positioning are purposely
    strayed from best practices of reading in order to enhance comprehension of meaning,
    your conditions are met. \r\nAn example might be the word \"Help\" in one instance
    set in white in Clearview on a plain green background; in the second instance
    the same word \"Help\" hand scribbled in red (as if traced in blood). In the second
    case, the legibility factors are negatively impacted but the communication is
    enhanced without another word being added.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-10-29 00:23:44'
- author:
    name: PJay
    picture: 109541
  body: "I'll give you a good example of how typeface design impacts readability.
    Penguin puts out an excellent set of historical atlases in 9\" x 7\" softcover
    format, text by Colin McEvedy. The text was originally printed in Times Roman
    at about 8, perfectly legible and a pleasure to read. The layout encouraged comprehension.
    Later, they reprinted these books, same size, but with the typeface changed to
    one (I forget which right now and I'm too lazy to track it down) with a relatively
    higher x-height and at slightly larger size, reducing the white space. The design
    is less attractive and the text less legible, never mind that the point size is
    bigger. I wanted to sue.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-29 23:40:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...a good example of how typeface design impacts readability.</em>\r\n\r\nWell
    no it's not, because you go on to contradict yourself:\r\n\r\n<em>...the point
    size is bigger.</em>\r\n\r\nHow is it possible to know whether it's typeface or
    type size that's affecting readability?\r\nOr, for that matter, leading.\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-30 03:06:40'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Pluto! Pluto? ;)\r\n\r\n\"Scientists are the least likely people to put scientific
    results on a pedestal, since they know that future science will probably demonstrate
    the inaccuracies in those results.\"\r\n\r\nAnother way of saying it is that 'scientists'
    who do put results on a pedestal, ready to defend it in all cases, are suspect
    as is their science.\r\n\r\n\"How is it possible to know whether it\u2019s typeface
    or type size that\u2019s affecting readability?\"\r\n\r\nExactly, or other composition
    affecting the results that most studies seem utterly oblivious of. Most don't
    even bother to publish the compositions used in the studies. These things and
    more make any amount of maligning of Song & Schwarz, e.g. insufficient. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-30 12:43:33'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\u201CHow is it possible to know whether it\u2019s typeface or type size
    that\u2019s affecting readability?\u201D\r\n\r\nIn my ICTVC 2004 presentation
    I said a tabulation of the perceptual processing impact of manipulating type-form
    microvariables is maddeningly elusive. I tried to suggest we look at specific
    determinants of \u2018perceptual discrimination affordance\u2019 in letters or
    specific determinants of the effective and automatic formation of \u2019word-level
    codes\u2019 with words, like lateral interference or crowding, response-bias,
    cue value and computation costs as some of the areas that are effected.\r\n\r\nIt
    is not enough to change a variable, measure the effect along a single raw dimension
    like reading speed and then conclude \u2019readability\u2019 is improved. This
    becomes blinding. We go around in circles. We stop trusting our cultivated vision
    and craft wisdom. We kid ourselves into thinking we have understood readability
    in this way. We've gained no understanding at all of what our type-forming micro-decisions
    actually <strong>do</strong> <em>in perceptual-processing terms</em>. We can sense
    and experience what occurs, but we haven't deepened our vision and craft wisdom
    with evidential knowledge about what occurs. Yet, intelligent design requires
    just that. \r\n\r\nWe need to know, for example how spacing affects the formation
    of word-level codes. How does too wide or overly tight spacing disrupt this? Why?
    What are the tolerences? \r\n\r\nOr we need to know, does decreasing stroke contrast,
    or making it variable effect the cue-value of distinctive features in such a way
    that word-level codes are harder to assemble in the visual cortex.\r\n\r\nMany
    sciences have acheived this level of specificity and particularity. Why not the
    science of reading?"
  created: '2008-10-30 16:55:25'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "This reminds me of the old show \"What the Fed Chief Said?\", before it didn't
    matter.\r\n\r\n\"...I said a tabulation of the perceptual processing impact of
    manipulating type-form microvariables is maddeningly elusive.\"\r\nLearning how
    users employ their eyes and brains to read, is hard?\r\n\r\n\"I tried to suggest
    we look at specific determinants of \u2018perceptual discrimination affordance\u2019
    in letters or specific determinants of the effective and automatic formation of
    \u2019word-level codes\u2019 with words, like lateral interference or crowding,
    response-bias, cue value and computation costs as some of the areas that are effected.\"\r\nIf
    you break the rules of good typography, like over or under track, that's your
    best route to finding out what's gone wrong?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-11-01 11:51:35'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: David, it is easy to take the piss, and no doubt tempting with such thick
    prose -  but actually lateral interference or crowding, response-bias, cue value
    and computation costs are all specific and distinctive ideas which have emerged
    from psychological testing. I am about to study this crowding thing and with any
    luck the others because I am going to run a test to see if some CALT shapes I
    am going to design as replacements to the regular letters aid in speed and or
    accuracy when reading. The final shape of the test and the extensiveness of it
    are TBD. And as I said I need to come up to speed in the primary lit for this
    kind of testing. But I am hoping to find something nifty! If you would be willing
    to talk to me about it as it's getting designed that would sure be "pukka" as
    they say here in Old Blighty. Wadda ya say?
  created: '2008-11-01 16:10:24'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\u201CIf you break the rules of good typography, like over or under track
    [...]\u201D\r\n\r\nDavid, I think it's not so hard to see that over-tracking causes
    the word to fall apart as an integral object-like unit, and under-tracking leads
    to crowding, but wouldn't it be nice to know precisely why both these things disrupt
    reading, or how exactly having an integral object-like unit improves reading?\r\n\r\nExplain
    to me in perceptual psychophysical or perceptual-mechanical \u2014 perceptual
    science \u2014 terms why it is important \u2014 if it is \u2014 that the cluster
    of letters form an optically integral or cohesive object-like unit. Why might
    it be important that the word as a visual unit resist easy deomposition into it's
    constitutent letters?  Isn\u2019t this the implicit belief that motivates type-design?
    Talk to me about the work that the visual cortex performs in reading that makes
    this desirable or mandatory.\r\n\r\nKnowing this might give weight to our fetishistic
    attention to spacing."
  created: '2008-11-01 21:35:41'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<em>and under-tracking leads to crowding, but wouldn\u2019t it be nice to
    know precisely why both these things disrupt reading ... or how exactly having
    an integral object-like unit improves reading?</em>\r\n\r\nAs far as I see, rather
    than describing too tight spacing, \"crowding\" actually results from <em>good</em>
    spacing -- \"crowding\" in the way Eben uses it is formation of \"gestalt\", or
    what you seem to call an \"integral object-like unit\" which, with the subject
    at hand, may safely be called \"word\". The latter part of the quote I don't understand
    though. What \"how exactly\"? Ideal reading conditions means words that are distinguishable
    and recognizable as such. What riddle is there that needs to be solved?\r\nBy
    the way, I am amused by the term \"crowding\", especially when confronting it
    with the older \"gestalt\". Both acknowledge the same phenomenon but approach
    it from opposite directions. It looks like the \"crowding\" is rooted in Anglo-American
    philosophic tradition which is obsessed with reducing everything to smallest particles
    as if these had some built-in evidence, but gets trapped in the un-answerable
    question, how come that we are able to get from these particles to a unity? From
    sensual impressions to conceptions, ideas, objects? (The \"reference\" problem.)
    \"Crowding\" nicely reflects this, alluding to a bunch of particles lumped together
    <em>somehow</em>. \"Gestalt\" instead starts out with concepts, ideas, objects
    -- the unity which \"crowding\" acknowledges, wants to explain, but does not really
    know how. From a \"gestalt\" perspective, perception is perception of objects,
    period, and particles are recognized only in as far as they form unity.\r\nOff-topic."
  created: '2008-11-02 01:02:46'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Aesthetics improves legibility.\r\n\r\nAesthetics draws the eyes' attention
    during reading.\r\n\r\nLegibility then promotes it movement, while digesting meaning
    along the way.\r\n\r\nThis then is the secret of a very food text typeface. A
    text typeface is used to promote successful reading. When the text typeface incorporates
    subtle but attractive aesthetics without sacrificing legibility, the reading process
    advances to a successful conclusion."
  created: '2008-11-02 01:20:56'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Karsten, it is possible both to track too tightly and hurt readability, and
    too loosely and hurt readability. In both cases the \"gestalt\" of words is hurt,
    but in different ways. Peter's theory is a gestalt theory of reading, not an 'atomistic'
    one, if you take the atoms to be letters.  \r\n\r\n\"Crowding\" refers to close
    proximity that hurts quick identification of letters. It is something there is
    a whole literature on, Peter tells me. The connection of it to the ease of what
    Peter calls \"word form resolution\", or what you could call \"word gestalt\"
    is complex, and not yet studied. "
  created: '2008-11-02 13:08:55'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Karsten, Eben hasn't said how he defines crowding, but in the psychological
    literature the follwing is a representative: \u201CCrowding is defined as impaired
    recognition of a suprathreshold target due to the presence of distractor elements
    in the neighborhood of that target.\u201D [from: Christopher W. Tyler and Lora
    T. Likova, \u201CCrowding: A neuroanalytic approach\u201D Journal of Vision (2007)
    7(2):16, 1\u20139 http://journalofvision.org/7/2/16/]. I\u2019m not sure I'd say
    it underlies the seeing of gestalts as wholes.\r\n\r\nYou asked, \u201C[w]hat
    riddle is there that needs to be solved?\u201D I\u2019m not sure it\u2019s Chris
    Allen\u2019s so I probably shouldn\u2019t press it, but my riddle is, is the current
    way of schematizing reading, as for instance, an automatic process mediated by
    the activation of abstract letter identities, correct? If it is, it might be difficult
    to understand why it is important that the cluster of letters form an optically
    integral or cohesive object-like unit / gestalt.\r\n\r\nThe current way of schematizing
    reading would put letter-form construction into the domain of legibility, or as
    I like to say, perceptual discrimination affordance, and gestalt-integrity into
    the domain of aesthetics. I want to believe, however, that there are \u201Cperceptual
    processing in reading\u201D reasons for attending, in type design, to issues of
    gestalt integrity, or as I like to say, the optical-grammatical cohesiveness of
    the letter cluster, considered as a bounded map of black and white sub-letter
    forms.\r\n\r\nTo make progress with Chris\u2019s question it might be important
    to resolve this <em>fundamental disconnect</em> between the priorities of type
    design and a central aasumption of the science of reading."
  created: '2008-11-02 13:36:51'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Indeed I read your remarks in the light of what I read about crowding before
    -- and placed your remarks in the same category. My mistake. Thanks for the clarification
    and also for an additional article.\r\n\r\nI am aware that crowding is described
    as something negative, disturbance rather than formation, yet think one might
    reinterpret it as formation rather than disturbance. I see traces of such a reinterpretation
    in this <a href=\"http://lpp.psycho.univ-paris5.fr/pdf/PapersPC/2001/Cavanagh-4-2001-673-674.pdf\">introductory
    article</a> but may err.\r\nMy problem with the conception of crowding is in its
    implicit premises. Bill, as you indicate, these studies deal with crowding only
    in so far as it disturbs identification of <em>individual</em> letters -- which
    presupposes an atomistic model of perception. Moreover, they try to explain perception
    as a mere technical process, as mechanics of the eye and brain. There is nothing
    wrong with describing the \"technical\" conditions for perception, but if the
    goal is to <em>explain</em> perception on this level alone, I fear they are on
    the wrong track.\r\n\r\nInterestingly, the article which you recommend in your
    latest post refers to this one -- Korte: \"Ueber die Gestaltauffassung im indirekten
    Sehen\", 1923 -- and I am curious to read it. At least the title makes direct
    reference to gestalt. (It looks like crowding, as dealt with in articles today,
    is the result of transplanting a observation from gestalt context into an atomistic
    context. Need to read this text.)"
  created: '2008-11-02 17:08:58'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Karsten, there are many more papers where the Tyler / Likova paper comes
    from. See: http://journalofvision.org/7/2/\r\n\r\nI think you\u2019re quite right
    that \u201Cthese studies deal with crowding only in so far as it disturbs identification
    of individual letters.\u201D The Patrick Cavanagh review deals with peripheral
    vision. It helped me see that the important function of crowding in parafoveal
    preview is to constrain it to assembling \u2018accurate ensemble statistics.\u2019
    Wxactly what these ensemble statistics are or have a bearing in is unclear, but
    they go beyond just \u2018envelope structure,\u2019 or other markers of simple
    word-shape. Foveal vision is still required in visual word-form resolution, but
    what occurs there is contextualized and facilitated by this assembly process.
    \r\n\r\nMost studies don't deal with crowding in foveal vision. I think crowding
    comes into play under various conditions in foveal vision. I'd love to explore
    this with you and others further, but maybe in a new thread."
  created: '2008-11-02 19:23:30'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Many thanks! Reading and getting hold of the older article may take some
    time.\r\n\r\nIf Mr Allen doesn't object, maybe better stay here. Otherwise we
    end up with two parallel discussions."
  created: '2008-11-02 19:52:00'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I would prefer that you stay here too - as long as it's okay with Chris.
  created: '2008-11-02 21:09:09'
- author:
    name: Chris Allen
  body: "Eben/Karsten,\r\n\r\nMore than happy for this to stay in the thread, it's
    a tangent, but still as far as I can see totally relevant to the discussion.\r\n\r\nJust
    like to say I'm very appreciative of the in-depth discussion on this thread and
    would like to thank everyone as it has given me a lot to think about. Sorry for
    not responding at all, but as well as trying to digest all this new information,
    I've been working on a draft of material for my tests which has kept me terribly
    busy these past few days!\r\n\r\nAgain thanks.\r\n\r\nChris."
  created: '2008-11-02 23:08:09'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...if you take the atoms to be letters.\"\r\nYes, well, we've been there
    before. Only people who don't know enough about the parts that are smaller than
    letters, consider the letter the atom. Sheedy et al fell into this pit of uselessness
    when they concluded that the for-centuries-beloved-of-readers Garamond e is the
    least readable of all e's. lol.\r\n\r\n\"...it might be important to resolve this
    fundamental disconnect between the priorities of type design and a central assumption
    of the science of reading.\"\r\n\r\n...might? ;) It should be clear that most
    \"science of reading\" is no more related to type design, than the \"practice
    of type design\" is related to the creation of charts for eye exams. The convenience
    of common symbols (letters), and the words we have in common for the names of
    letters used on eye charts, does not seem to stop \"scientists\" from confusion
    over the difference between seeing letter, and reading words, lines, paragraphs
    and pages and pages of text.\r\n\r\nWhen one's definition and study of \"crowding\"
    is another's definition of  \"normal everyday composition for the purpose of reading\",
    (as in Tyler & Likova), I say you have 20/20 proof!\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-03 13:12:33'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "David, my feeling about Tyler & Likova: transpose their discussion of \u201Cencoding,
    labels, conjuncton and attention,\u201D and especially \u201Cnetwork relaxation
    minima\u201D to the domain of my role units (your \u201Cparts that are smaller
    than letters\u201D) and entire bounded maps (full typographic words), and we've
    made a start toward understanding how visual wordform resolution \u2014 a species
    of the genus: gestalt vision / gestaltauffassung in <em>direct</em> vision  \u2014
    works in a way that is sympathetic to expert-level type design and type-formatting
    attunements."
  created: '2008-11-03 15:10:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...sympathetic to expert-level type design...</em>\r\n\r\nPhilosophically
    that 's not possible. In type design aesthetics *is* functionality, and aesthetics
    is impervious to scientific analysis.\r\n\r\nIn other kinds of design, it may
    be possible to separate function from visual style, but not type, because it only
    exists to be looked at.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-03 17:09:57'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "If type only exists to be looked at, then it shouldn't be used for making
    distracting things like words. Words pull attention away from how it looks to
    what is being said.\r\n\r\nI can be categorical as well. In type design aesthetics
    and functionality are intertwined. Functionality is foundational; aesthetics a
    humanistic <em>experience-improving</em> virtue or <em>plus value</em>. Good spacing
    plays a role in rapid automatic visual word-form resolution. It also looks nice.\r\n\r\nPhilosophically
    type design is feature-manipulation. The perceptual processing impact of feature
    manipulation  \u2014 to what degree it affords or promotes seamless or effortless
    network relaxation inside the visual cortex, for instance \u2014 is not, in principle,
    impervious to scientific analysis. Every feature-manipulative move has an aesthetic
    or gestural-atmospheric impact as well. That aesthetics resists quantitative formalization
    and technological control or automation doesn't mean the structures it puts in
    place, or the type of experience it promotes can't be rigorously explored. "
  created: '2008-11-03 20:38:27'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "'but not type, because it only exists to be looked at.'\r\n\r\nThese speaks
    the wise auteur of Fontesque. "
  created: '2008-11-03 23:08:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>If type only exists to be looked at, then it shouldn\u2019t be used for
    making distracting things like words. </em>\r\n\r\nWhat I mean is that other design
    objects have functions that are independent of how they appear to the eye.\r\n\r\nNow,
    the aesthetics of, say, a chair, may be how it feels to sit in, or of a knife,
    how it feels to cut with, and in that sense the aesthetics is very functional
    and no different than with type. But don't people usually use the term aesthetics
    as part of a duality which splits \"mere\" visual styling from the \"ugliness\"
    of mere function? I don't believe you can do that with type. If it doesn't work
    it has poor aesthetics; it can't have good aesthetics and not work.\r\n\r\nIf
    you look at the words to appreciate the shape of their letters, that's not reading,
    is it?\r\n\r\n<em>Good spacing plays a role in rapid automatic visual word-form
    resolution. It also looks nice.</em>\r\n\r\nExactly; there is no difference. Spacing
    is quite literally all about looking nice (\"precise\").\r\n\r\n<em>That aesthetics
    resists quantitative formalization and technological control or automation doesn\u2019t
    mean the structures it puts in place, or the type of experience it promotes can\u2019t
    be rigorously explored.</em>\r\n\r\nAgreed, but people expect that such exploration
    will lead to scientific principles which can be used to engineer predictable results,
    and that's not possible--at least, not at the \"expert\" level you alluded to
    Peter."
  created: '2008-11-03 23:27:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>These speaks the wise auteur of Fontesque.</em>\r\n\r\nWith somewhat
    better grammar than you, monsieur.\r\n\r\nI think you would agree that Fontesque,
    even the Text version, is not an ideal face for extended reading, and in that
    sense, isn't its awkward aesthetics concommitant with its functionality?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-03 23:32:56'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "<em>What I mean is that other design objects have functions that are independent
    of how they appear to the eye.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm much more comfortable with that.
    Unlike in some other design domains both the functionality and the aesthetics
    of typographic objects are tied up with how they look.\r\n\r\n<em>Agreed, but
    people expect that such exploration will lead to scientific principles which can
    be used to engineer predictable results, and that\u2019s not possible \u2014 at
    least, not at the \u201Cexpert\u201D level you alluded to [\u2026]</em>\r\n\r\nPerhaps,
    but case-specific affordance ranges and thresholds can be fairly tightly scripted.
    And these thresholds and ranges impose practical benchmarks or constraints. At
    distance x and type-size y typeface z will not be easily readable under nightime
    driving conditions from a distance d assuming a driving speed s for people with
    20 / 20 vision."
  created: '2008-11-04 02:57:49'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Unlike in some other design domains both the functionality and the aesthetics
    of typographic objects are tied up with how they...\"\r\ndisappear. And don't
    you forget it! :)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-11-04 20:10:49'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "My riddle again, this time framed in Denis Pelli & Katherine Tillman\u2019s
    terms.\r\n\r\nDenis Pelli & Katherine Tillman write (The uncrowdend window of
    object recognition, <em>Nature Neuroscience</em>, 2008): \u201DSome objects are
    recognized through a single combining of features over the whole object, whereas
    other objects require separate combining over each of several regions of the object.
    The distinct regions define parts. In an object with multiple parts, each part
    must be recognized before they are all joined together.\u201D\r\n\r\nWhat is the
    case with words?\r\n\r\nIs the combining metaphor right?\r\n\r\nIf reading involves
    the former, improving the experience might involve facilitating a single combining
    of features over the whole object; if reading involves the latter, improving the
    experience might involve facilitating separate combining over each of several
    regions of the object.\r\n\r\nWhat should type do?\r\n\r\nCognitive and perceptual
    science seems biased toward the latter; tpyographers and type designers seem biased
    toward the former."
  created: '2008-11-04 23:59:16'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">Is the combining metaphor right?\r\n\r\nWhere's the metaphor? \r\n\r\n>Cognitive
    and perceptual science seems biased toward the latter; [typographers] and type
    designers seem biased toward the former.\r\n\r\nThat's because what a good type
    designer/typographer knows how to do is:\r\n\r\nfacilitate separate combining
    over each of several regions of the object\r\n\r\nby:\r\n\r\nfacilitating a single
    combining of features over the whole object."
  created: '2008-11-05 15:13:17'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Peter Quoting Study: \"In an object with multiple parts, each part must be
    recognized before they are all joined together.\u201D\r\n\r\nSo, reading some
    arabic or most chinese, carpet or carpentry appreciation, landscape, seascape
    or sky cape recognition, follows recognition of each part? What should type do?
    As it must do everything for all readers, it does. No one here should tell you
    there is no recognition by letter any more than anyone \"out there\" should tell
    us that there is no recognition by word. \r\n\r\nPeter:\"Explain to me in perceptual
    psycho-physical or perceptual-mechanical \u2014 perceptual science \u2014 terms
    why it is important \u2014 if it is \u2014 that the cluster of letters form an
    optically integral or cohesive object-like unit.\"\r\n\r\nIt is important \u2014
    I know it is \u2014 that the cluster of letters form an optically integral or
    cohesive object-like unit, for if any of the thousands of clusters expected from
    a cluster-making mechanism fail to present clusters of sufficient optical integrity
    or cohesive object-like unitization, (or proper cluster separation or deunitization),
    then the mechanism responsible for the failure will not likely yield sufficient
    financial rewards to allow its maker future cluster-making mechanism occupation.
    \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-07 14:29:08'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\u201CNo one here should tell you there is no recognition by letter any more
    than anyone \u201Cout there\u201D should tell us that there is no recognition
    by word.\u201D [David Berlow]\r\n\r\nNo one does. It\u2019s just how these things
    are schematized \u2014 given what is know about human physiology, the structure
    of the visual cortex, information processing and neuro-mechanics \u2014 that gets
    me going. \r\n\r\nBut why should that matter? Typography and type design have
    gotten pretty far with it\u2019s own type-tribal inuitions about these thiings.\r\n\r\n\u201C[\u2026]
    facilitate separate combining over each of several regions of the object by: facilitating
    a single combining of features over the whole object.\u201D [Bill T]\r\n\r\nI\u2019m
    not sure this can be done. I'm assuming wide spacing and closed forms would do
    the former, while rhythmic spacing and forms open to each other might do the latter.
    Also, closed forms might be more susceptible to crowding.\r\n\r\nInstead of integration
    or combining, I think in terms of quantization. This involves resolving the information
    derived from the retinal and ganglion projections of stroke complexes into role-units,
    like stems and bowls and counters. As I see it now, quantization occurs at salient
    centres, but simultaneously and interactively all across the bounded map or uncrowded
    span. Combining isn't done, and parts (in the Pelli / Tillman sense) don\u2019t
    emerge as labelled entities, but role-unit identities and direct associations
    are noted and calculated, along with positional information.\r\n\r\nWhen a criterial
    amount of information at the role-unit level is resolved, lexical identity emerges
    and the reader moves on."
  created: '2008-11-09 15:54:27'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I started reading about crowding over the weekend( Pelli / Tillman etc). It's
    pretty interesting!
  created: '2008-11-09 17:37:18'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: I worry the reading experience could become so efficient as to bypass comprehension,
    so that vast areas of white pages would need be inserted to allow the brain to
    catch up with what the eyes had entered as data.
  created: '2008-11-09 18:13:22'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "You worry about that happening as a consequence of what? \r\n\r\nFrom what
    I have read so far ( not enough ) the crowding effect is many things including
    a bottleneck to speed that isn't going to go away anytime soon."
  created: '2008-11-09 22:01:27'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Small joke Eben. As a consequence of the letters and setting being super-optimized
    through the application of scientific principles.
  created: '2008-11-09 23:35:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...reading experience could become so efficient as to bypass comprehension\"\r\n\r\nThat
    may have happened already, James. There is no sure way to tell if a regression
    eye movement is caused by difficulty reading or to pause for comprehension of
    the text already read :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-11-10 00:31:14'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: 'The world may never know. It would be difficult to call the possibility of
    the test subject becoming distracted negligible in any scenario I can conceive.
    Sometimes getting solid data depends on ignoring the right things I suppose. '
  created: '2008-11-10 00:50:52'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"No one does.\"\r\nOh?\r\n\r\n\"Typography and type design have gotten pretty
    far with it\u2019s own type-tribal inuitions about these thiings.\"\r\n\r\nI'm
    going to assume you mean intuitions and things,  and that you don't imagine us
    as natives of the polar regions meeting with Scandinavians in tribal conclaves.
    But corrected, it's a flawed statement nevertheless, because it ain't \"our\"
    intuitions we work towards you know. You do know that don't you? it's the tribe
    of readers, that's gotten us this far thus far.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-11-10 13:12:32'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "By tribal I meant intuitions largely specific to the type-design and typography
    elite. And it <em>is</em> your intuitions, not those of the tribe of readers.
    Of course it\u2019s the everyday reading actions of ordinary human readers in
    their reading that either stumble over or bite effortlessly through what you provide.
    But it\u2019s you who acts on your own ideas about the root causes of their stumbles,
    where your readers may only be able to express frustration and report symptoms.\r\n\r\nThe
    intuitions are probably pretty good, but it might be nice to know they're not
    out to lunch in evidence-based theory-of-reading terms."
  created: '2008-11-10 19:27:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Peter, I think David's point is that the type designer's intuitions about
    what works is ruthlessly tested by the market place of publishers and readers.
    So most of type design lore, such as related in Tracy's Letters of Credit, does
    reflect the input of readers over the centuries. As they say, the shoemaker may
    be better at making the shoe, but it is wearer who says whether the shoe pinches.
    \r\n\r\nIf we get to really good tests, I'm sure they will confirm much of existing
    lore. But there will be surprises, as there always are when breakthrough science
    is done. It hasn't happened yet, but as I have said I think it can and will. "
  created: '2008-11-10 19:40:41'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: Bill, there is a distinction between practical intuitions about what works
    and craft-based intuitions about the perceptual mechanics of reading. I think
    the higher service of science to typographers and type designers is in informing
    us about the latter.
  created: '2008-11-10 19:57:03'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: I think Unger also talks about some of the aspects discussed in this thead
    in his book [[http://typophile.com/node/36251|While You're Reading]]. At least
    an interesting read abount reading in general and what influence typedesign/typography
    (thus aesthetics) have on the process of reading.
  created: '2008-11-11 00:31:40'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Yes, Jelmar\u2019s right. Many aspects of reading are effectively discussed
    in Gerard Unger\u2019s engaging <em>While You\u2019re Reading</em>. See especially
    the chapters \u201CDisappearing Types, \u201DThe Process,\" and \u201CReader\u2019s
    Eyes.\u201D The account is accessible, worth-while and as Unger himself says,
    \u201Cgreatly simplified.\u201D\r\n\r\nTo my mind Unger takes at face value too
    much of what is concluded about foveal vision and parafoveal preview in the studies
    his account relies on. In a section that relates to the specifics at hand, Unger
    writes: \u201CIn one model, each letter is read individually and words are similarly
    compiled one by one. Meanings are then allocated to each word and the words are
    then assigned to their places in the sentance. In this way a text is reproduced
    and comprehension built up in a step-by-step process. This may be how it works
    with children learning to read and at the same time learning to link sounds to
    letters. In the case of experienced readers the process may be different. Once
    the experienced reader has got going, he is thought to project ahead of him, as
    it were, expectations regarding the content. He takes in the text several words
    at a time, testing his expectations [\u2026]\u201D\r\n\r\nThe \u201Ceach letter
    is read individually\u201D might seem innocent enough, but how might the process
    be different in the case of experienced readers, if it is? Other models of how
    reading might be different at the letter-assembly stage are not discussed."
  created: '2008-11-11 15:31:03'
- author:
    name: Denis Pelli
    picture: 115062
  body: "\"No one here should tell you there is no recognition by letter any more
    than anyone 'out there' should tell us that there is no recognition by word.\"\r\n\r\nActually,
    we did a study to measure how much each of these processes contributes to reading.
    We went to a lot of trouble to use methods that would be convincing. What do you
    think?\r\n\r\nPelli, D. G., & Tillman, K. A. (2007) Parts, wholes, and context
    in reading: A triple dissociation. PLoS ONE 2(8): e680. http://www.plosone.org/doi/pone.0000680\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-12 12:18:01'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Prof. Pelli, thank you for pointing to your article; I had not seen that
    paper before. As one of the people who has been strongly advocating the view that
    letters are the primary route to word recognition, I think this is a nice demonstration
    that there is are whole word and context components to word recognition.\r\n\r\nI\u2019m
    struggling with the context only condition (+S \u2013L-W). Earlier studies that
    asked readers to predict the next word in a sentence found that people could only
    guess the next word ~20% of the time, and function words made up most of the correct
    guesses. How were you able to get the accuracy rate up to 80% in order to measure
    the reading speed of this sentence: \u201CeE TbF FrD Qt fHe nQcM A\u201D? Presumably
    there is accurate word length information here that wasn\u2019t present in earlier
    studies, but 80% still seems high even with infinite time. Was some sort of adjustment
    made to get a RT for this condition?\r\n\r\nCould you explain how was Table 2
    created from Table 1? I haven\u2019t figured out how you made that transformation.\r\n\r\nCheers,
    Kevin Larson\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-12 22:27:24'
- author:
    name: Denis Pelli
    picture: 115062
  body: "dear kevin\r\n\r\nthanks, good points. \r\n\r\n<em>\"I\u2019m struggling
    with the context only condition (+S \u2013L-W). Earlier studies that asked readers
    to predict the next word in a sentence found that people could only guess the
    next word ~20% of the time, and function words made up most of the correct guesses.
    How were you able to get the accuracy rate up to 80% in order to measure the reading
    speed of this sentence: \u201CeE TbF FrD Qt fHe nQcM A\u201D? Presumably there
    is accurate word length information here that wasn\u2019t present in earlier studies,
    but 80% still seems high even with infinite time. Was some sort of adjustment
    made to get a RT for this condition?\"</em>\r\n\r\ngood question. no, there's
    no adjustment, but bear in mind that a difference between our method and \"guess
    the next word in the sentence\" is that our observers, because they had unlimited
    response time, could also use context information from the FOLLOWING words in
    the sequence of 6 if it helped them. you are asking how people still managed to
    read well enough to measure an 80% threshold in the hardest cases. it was mostly
    a matter of getting some practice with the substitutes (overcoming the knockout),
    and partly that even letters that did have substitutes weren't always substituted
    (randomly, they were occasionally \"substituted\" by themselves). in the demo
    that you quote, we did all the substituting possible, to maximize the intensity
    and purity of the experience for the readers of our article. we talk about this
    in the methods: \"The L knockout by substitution is quite effective, but not total.
    We attribute the residual reading rate (50 word/min) in the triple-knockout condition
    (see Table 1) to letter decoding, i.e. we think that L as reported here slightly
    underestimates the true value of the process. We tried making the knockout more
    severe (by not allowing a same-letter substitution when alternatives were available)
    but, as one would expect, this makes some conditions untestable because the observer
    cannot reach 80% correct at any presentation rate.\" thus, in the \"S-only\" case
    that you ask about, we think observers were still getting some help from L. \r\n\r\n<em>\"Could
    you explain how was Table 2 created from Table 1? I haven\u2019t figured out how
    you made that transformation.\"</em>\r\n\r\ngetting from table 1 to table 2 is
    a matter of fitting the LWS model (R = L + W + S + e) to the measured reading
    rates, minimizing the error across all 8 conditions. table 1 shows the measured
    rates and table 2 is the model fits.\r\n\r\ndoes that help?\r\n\r\nbest\r\n\r\ndenis
    and kat\r\n\r\nDenis Pelli\r\nKatharine Tillman\r\n\r\np.s.\r\nall our papers
    are available at our web site as PDF files. we are very interested in the discussion
    here about the role of aesthetics in legibility and hope to address that in future
    work.\r\nhttp://psych.nyu.edu/pelli/"
  created: '2008-11-13 20:21:41'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'Thanks Denis! '
  created: '2008-11-15 01:23:15'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Fabulous! As one of the people who has been strongly advocating the view
    that letters are only among the routes to text recognition, I believe this is
    the best demonstration I've seen that there are whole word and context components
    to the process.\r\n\r\nFrom the study: \"We can be confident that each of these
    three manipulations affects only one of the three sources of word information
    in the text.\"\r\n\r\nI can't be confident in this unfortunately. In the study's
    analogy to a store, this study uses lying customers (surrounding mangled words)
    to come 'round and \"shout\" at the sales people while they are trying to understand
    their chosen customer (word). This is done, e.g. by alternating case in words?
    I cannot help but think this is over-doing it (shouting), as opposed to using
    small caps instead of uppercase, and systematically replacing only ascending and
    descending letters (whispering the word shape away).\r\n\r\nTo put S&S's study
    into this study's store analogy, one'd be asking the store management if they
    thought the sales force would think it easier to serve a crowd of \"expected customer
    types\", or whether it'd be easier to serve a heavily accented crowd of unexpected
    tourists, who also (by mistake) turn out to be 8 inches tall and very hard to
    hear.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-15 13:24:16'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Denis, I share David\u2019s sense that this moves the discussion forward,
    especially in the characterization of W.\r\n\r\nHowever, I can\u2019t be confident
    either that each of your three manipulations affects only one of the three sources
    of word information in the text.\r\n\r\nMy holistic process \u2014 let\u2019s
    call holistic: H \u2014 involves more than your W. Your W is my holistic process\u2019s
    <em>parafoveal</em> component, which I think of in <em>ensemble-statistics</em>
    terms rather than <em>word-shape</em> terms. My holistic process H also has a
    <em>foveal</em> component. The foveal component of my H is letter-feature based,
    but transgraphemic, or letter-boundary transgressing. In other words, it relies
    on location, identity and direct association information existing at the granularity
    of letter parts and evoked forms, but it doesn\u2019t rely on channeling that
    information into independent letter slots. Instead of channeling information into
    slots my foveal H-process samples letter-parts and evoked form information simultaneously
    from all locations within the whole. The whole is considered as a bounded map
    of letter-parts and evoked forms, that is, as a bounded map of blacks and whites.
    (Channeling can however be successful in alternating case.)\r\n\r\nThis is like
    your \u201Cone-step assembly (features to word),\u201D except that the \u201Cfeatures\u201D
    the assembly of ensemble statistics \u2014 your W \u2014 relies on are probably
    of a different order than those which are available to foveal vision.\r\n\r\nMy
    foveal H-process description uses ideas about feature-analytic processing developed
    by Frank Smith in his 1967 dissertation; ideas about pattern-unit processing developed
    by Neal Johnson prior to 1979, and ideas about identification matrices developed
    by Richard Golden in 1986.\r\n\r\nIn my scheme parafoveal pre-processing \u2014
    your W \u2014 facilitates but doesn\u2019t replace the foveal component of my
    H. In other words. I\u2019m not convinced that your W process <em>is</em> actually
    \u201Ccommon to both central and peripheral vision.\u201D\r\n\r\nSo here we have
    not one, but two, two sources for H, and together they provide an alternative
    processing path, not an additive compliment, to L \u2014 or so it seems to me.\r\n\r\nWhen
    the foveal component of my H fails in the silent substitution paradigm, the perceptual
    processing system tries L. The letter-based identification mechanism isn't absent
    here, but the L-mechanism has to contend with misleading letter cues, so makes
    allowances for the possibility of substitutions, slowing sense-following down
    dramatically.\r\n\r\nThe only condition in which the foveal component of my H-process
    <em>doesn\u2019t</em> encounter problems is with normal upper and lower case.\r\n\r\nI
    wonder what this does to your analysis.\r\n\r\nInterestingly, I discovered while
    trying to read your paper with partially fogged-up glasses, I could read the L-knockout
    text with remarkable ease and accuracy. When my glasses cleared up the L-knockout
    text again became very tough-going. "
  created: '2008-11-15 20:29:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hello Dennis, \r\n\r\nI have been discussing Peter\u2019s theory with him
    for some time, and have come up with some experiments to test it against the current
    received views which Peter calls \u2018slot processing\u2019. These are tests
    of \u2018gestalt\u2019 effects that are different from those you have so far identified,
    as Peter notes above. Kevin Larson has also expressed some interest in these experiments
    being carried out.\r\n \r\nIn order to understand the \u2018gestalt\u2019 effects
    that Peter writes about, it has helped me to put this in terms of a model that
    captures at least some features of his ideas, and makes it easier for me to think
    about the issues. Let me explain the model, and then the experiments.  \r\n\r\nThe
    model I call a \u2018matrix-resonance\u2019 model. The idea here is that visual
    processing will identify sub-letter features, and place them into a structure
    similar to positions in a number matrix, as in matrix algebra. The position in
    such a word matrix would indicate spatial relations to other features in the word.
    Sub-letter features would be coded in some way like \"left ascender\" or \"counter
    open on the right\", and would have an indicator of spatial position in relation
    to other features. \r\n\r\nNow sub-matrices can be \u2018read\u2019 out in matrix
    algebra by multiplying the matrix with another matrix that has a bunch of zeros
    in the appropriate places. Similarly, the features in a word matrix could be analyzed
    into letter matrices, and identified as letters. And I think that in fact happens.
    \r\n\r\nBut simultaneously, in parallel processing, and following Peter\u2019s
    ideas, I think a whole word matrix \u2018resonance\u2019 process is going on.
    If a single pitch tone rings out in a room it will \u2018paint\u2019 vibrations
    over the whole room, but only a lampshade that is \u2018tuned\u2019 to the right
    pitch will resonate. Similarly, I think that the brain simultaneously \u2018paints\u2019
    the whole visual memory bank of word matrices, and if one matrix pattern stored
    in memory \u2018resonates\u2019 then that is immediately identified as semantically
    the right word.  And the process of resolution into letters is dropped, as the
    eye makes the next saccade.\r\n\r\nWhether the matrix is read as a word or as
    letters depends on a number of factors. If the word is unfamiliar it will require
    the breakdown into letters. Also, if the reader has an attentional \"set\" to
    proofread, there will also be a breakdown into letters.  But generally, in my
    view, there is a bias favoring reading the matrix as a whole as a word. That is
    to say, the whole word matrix is sent to all the stored record of matrices of
    role units associated with semantic word meanings. And when it \"resonates\",
    to use my earlier metaphor, with the stored matrix then the meaning is checked
    as sensible in context, and the eye moves on--or at least doesn't back track.\r\n\r\nThe
    basic a priori argument for such a scheme is efficiency. After all people instantly
    recognize Chinese characters, where even the \u2018radicals\u2019 that make up
    other characters often have as many strokes as a short English word. Why shouldn\u2019t
    the brain take advantage of this pattern recognition capacity, and bypass an elaborate
    \u2018look up\u2019 process? \r\n\r\nFurthermore, the matrix doesn't have to match
    memory exactly. There is probably some kind of partial resonance, which is good
    enough to pick out a word, so as long as there are not competing words that are
    'rung' by the matrix. Thus wrong spelling, broken letters are not even noticed.
    \r\n\r\nThe point about this model, which is supposed to articulate Peter\u2019s
    theory\u2014though he may not agree with all of it\u2014is that word gestalt may
    be defined DIFFERENTLY from external word shape or just what is seen in the parafovea.
    \ If this model has any validity, there is often not letter by letter processing,
    even though this kind of processing would fall in your \u201Cletter\u201D category.\r\n
    \r\nHow would one test for the existence of such such a sub-letter feature word
    pattern view, verses a letter by letter parallel processing only?  I\u2019ll explain
    the experiments in my next post, and why they are in fact likely to be sensitive
    to the kinds of issues types designers are typically focused on in their work.
    \r\n"
  created: '2008-11-16 02:39:11'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I discovered while trying to read your paper with partially fogged-up glasses...\"\r\n\r\nYou
    must luuuuuuv Cleartype! ;)\r\n\r\n\"After all people instantly recognize Chinese
    characters...\"\r\n\r\nDo all people instantly recognize Chinese characters? This
    is the parallel wheel upon which many of these experiments must also turn, whether
    the study likes it or not. \r\n\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-11-16 12:50:13'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "So in the matrix-resonance model, we do parallel processing, but we are able
    to process and identify the word from patterns of sub-letter features across a
    whole word. We don\u2019t always have to first resolve the sub-letter features
    into letters. That\u2019s the basic point Peter has been arguing, and he convinced
    me of it after I was initially skeptical.\r\n\r\nBeing a former student of Popper,
    I knew the key issue in science is of devising tests, preferably crucial ones,
    for any theory; otherwise it\u2019s not really part of science. The question I
    was wrestling with is: how in the world can you show that such processing is going
    on, given that if you can see the sub-letter features you can also see letters.
    \r\n\r\nAfter reading the part of Kevin Larson\u2019s [[http://www.microsoft.com/typography/ctfonts/WordRecognition.aspx|Science
    of Word Recognition]] article on the word superiority effect (WSE), I got an idea.
    \ The word superiority effect shows up when sets of letters are flashed at a person,
    followed by flashing a \u201Cmask\u201D,  typically a line of xxxx, to the observer.
    \ The mask is supposed to stop visual processing, because it puts new information
    into the visual cortex, overwriting the old. The idea, of Reicher, was to study
    just  the visual processing. When you do this kind of test, it turns out that
    people are better at identifying letters in words than in non-words. \r\n \r\nSo
    if the initial word flashed was \u2018made\u2019, people will be better at saying
    correctly that the correct missing letter in \u201Cma_e\u201D is a \u2018d\u2019
    and not a \u2018k\u2019\u2014better than if it were a non-word, such as \u201Cdmae\u201D
    and you showed them \u201C_mae\u201D and gave them the alternatives d and k. As
    Kevin notes, this word superiority effect has always been the best argument for
    the existence some kind of word-gestalt effect, known on Typophile, thanks to
    Hrant and following Taylor & Taylor\u2019s text on reading, as the \u2018Bouma\u2019
    (rhymes with trauma :). \r\n\r\n\r\nFollowing Peter\u2019s view, and my experience
    designing a typeface family, it seemed to me that if you more widely spaced\u2014tracked
    out\u2014the letters, this should at some point destroy the word superiority effect.
    \ The idea is that the distances between the different letter parts in a word
    like \u201Cthe\u201D are important, and not only the relative distances between
    parts of individual letters. So increasing the spacing between letters would mess
    up the word-gestalt, or Bouma. Hence the WSE would vanish at greater spacing.
    And that would show that more than letter identification is important.\r\n\r\nNow
    I told this to Kevin at TypeCon in Seattle, and he was interested. Then Peter
    did a literature search\u2014and he has made an amazingly broad and deep study
    of the reading science literature\u2014and found that indeed this test had actually
    been done\u2014and I was right in my prediction, which had been based on Peter\u2019s
    ideas. The WSE did go away with wide tracking. The original paper on spacing and
    the WSE was by Purcell, Stanovich, and Spector in 1978, with follow up articles
    by Holender in 1979 and Purcell and Stanovich in 1982. \r\n\r\nNow the fly in
    the ointment has been that mixed-case words liKE this ExAMpLe also show a word
    superiority effect. This led almost all researchers around 1980 to think that
    the WSE was some kind of memory and guessing effect, not a word gestalt effect,
    and to adopt the view that reading is totally by letter processing in parallel,
    with no trans-letter effects. However, as Peter pointed out to me, in these mixed-case
    tests there was a significantly time between the showing of the group of letters
    or word and the showing of the \u2018mask\u2019. This time lapse is known by the
    awkward term \u201Cstimulus onset asynchrony \u201C (SOA).\r\n\r\n\r\nMy conclusion
    has been that there are two WSE effects. One is influenced by orthography, and
    kicks in with longer exposure to the letters (longer SOAs). The other is more
    a word gestalt effect that is clear at short times, before the information goes
    further up the processing chain. This goes with my \u2018matrix-resonance\u2019
    model, explained in the first post. \r\n\r\n\r\nSo based on this idea, I predict
    that with longer exposure to the letters, the word superiority effect will re-appear
    even with the widely spaced letters. \u2013Or to make it sound much more impressive:
    the WSE will reappear at longer SOAs :)  This will establish that there is a WSE
    that is due to word gestalt effects, as well as one due to memory effects. In
    other words, this will show that the typographer\u2019s distinction between legibility
    of individual letters and readability of text is valid. Or in other words, the
    Bouma rides again :)\r\n\r\nNow I should emphasize that the word gestalt effects
    here are not simply the word outline, or what can be seen blurrily in the parafovea,
    which you, Denis have tested for. This, I supposed is a gain in skipping words
    and in knowing where to plant a fixation, based on information gained in the parafovea.
    But there is much more to word-gestalt processing than this, if Peter is right,
    and if my model has any validity. \r\n\r\n\r\nThis is only one experiment, and
    I would propose a series involving the kinds of things that type designers are
    concerned with. These I\u2019ll post next.  \r\n"
  created: '2008-11-16 18:22:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Before I get to more experiments, a couple of responses:\r\n\r\nDavid, I
    left out a comma. It should be: \"After all, people instantly recognize Chinese
    characters.\" Also I shouldn't have written 'instantly', which is an exaggeration.
    I meant that proficient readers of Chinese can recognize them probably as quickly
    as we recognize letters. I don't know about tests of this though. \r\n\r\nI am
    also aware that most Chinese characters are composed of two to four sub-characters.
    However, even the sub-characters (radicals) often have more strokes than a short
    English word. The point is that these basic characters are not modular in the
    way that alphabetic words are, and yet there is extremely rapid recognition. Of
    course we also very rapidly recognize faces, which are far more complex than letters.
    The basic point is that we humans have immense powers of pattern recognition.
    I don't see why our brain would forgo using them while reading. It seems to me
    it would prefer the seemingly quicker path of recognizing the word from the word
    pattern of sub-letter features, as Peter has argued and my model elaborates. \r\n\r\nDenis,
    from the point of view of Peter's theory, and my model, with letter substitution
    you are not preserving 'whole word reading' and knocking out letter reading. You
    are just preserving whole word reading in the parafovea. In the fovea letter substitution
    knocks out the pattern of sub letter features. Thus by letter substitution you
    are completely defeating the kind of whole word reading that Peter thinks is going
    on routinely. \r\n\r\nWhat you are doing with alternate case is quite different:
    forcing parallel processing of letters. You report that Frank Smith found that
    alternating case slows reading by 21%. That 21% may indicate in fact the difference
    between the efficiency of on one hand using word-pattern reading plus advance
    information from parafovea gains, and on the other hand using parallel processing.
    There could in normal reading conceivably be no word recognition by parallel processing
    of letters at all. The word patterns may always be winning out. Now I would not
    go that far, but the point here is that you are not testing for the kind of whole
    word reading that Peter theorizes exists and that my model represents. \r\n\r\nCrucial
    tests are crucial in that they hit one theory and not another in their results.
    But these tests miss addressing Peter's view, and my model. \r\n\r\nIncidentally,
    in Peter's view, historically the abandonment of word gestalt approaches around
    1980 was based on the mistake of thinking that all there was to a gestalt view
    was the external outline of the word. According to Peter, people such as Frank
    Smith and Hermann Bouma were struggling with richer views, though these never
    got clearly developed. \r\n\r\nI'll defer description of my further experiments
    testing Peter's view and my model until my next post.   "
  created: '2008-11-17 17:43:33'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: track
  created: '2008-11-17 18:57:22'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I'll just chime in regarding William's point about people recognizing Chinese
    characters on the character level.\r\n\r\nLike many Koreans of my generation,
    I'm generally horrible with Chinese characters, as Chinese characters have been
    largely phased out of day-to-day usage in Korean. I can read a lot more than I
    can write, and I can vaguely recognize a whole lot more than I can recognize with
    certainty.\r\n\r\nI can recognize the character \u7279 for instance, but wouldn't
    be able to recall how to write it. Also, I might vaguely recognize a character
    like \u5BF6, but I wouldn't be able to tell if a few minor strokes were changed
    around as long as the overall pattern was not too different.\r\n\r\nClearly I'm
    not reading these characters by looking at their modular components\u2014I don't
    even necessarily know what these are. I'm \"reading\" these characters by (vaguely)
    recognizing their overall shapes and pattern, not by looking at the details.\r\n\r\nI
    get the sense that reading happens mostly on a level above that of the individual
    letters when I read texts in other scripts, but with Chinese characters it really
    is obvious."
  created: '2008-11-17 19:30:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Ok, here are some additional tests showing the presence of word-gestalt reading,
    in the manner suggested by Peter and in accord with my model, using the Word Superiority
    Effect. \r\n\r\nFirst, instead of simply spreading the letters out by tracking
    more widely, I would suggest doing irregular spacing of letters, accordion-like.
    In his book \"While You're Reading\" Gerard Unger has an example like that, and
    I think it will destroy the Word Superiority effect even more effectively than
    wider spacing. \r\n\r\nSecond, I would try whiting out portions of all the letters
    in a good text font, but leaving default spacing and everything else alone. I
    would predict that the WSE will be even more dramatic in these cases. People will
    be able to read words on the basis of the partial letters present, but have a
    much more difficult time with identifying letters in non-words. I think this would
    be a particularly dramatic demonstration of the way the brain uses sub-letter
    features across a word to get a word image. \r\n\r\nThird, I would keep spacing
    the same, but mess up the rhythm of the type face by having some very wide letters,
    such as very circular bdeopq, along with very narrow ones. I think that will also
    mess up the WSE. In fact the (horrible for text) typeface \"University Roman\"
    already does that. But I would take one of those faces with a lot of widths--such
    as David Berlow has produced--and mix up widths. \r\n\r\nFourth, I would randomly
    alternate regular and bold weights within the same word. Again, I think this may
    disrupt the WSE. \r\n\r\nFifth, I would compare the effect of gradually wider
    tracking with very round faces, like Helvetica, with ones based on the oval, such
    as Meta. I think that in order to get good word image very wide and round faces,
    particularly sans, they have to be spaced too close, and this causes crowding
    that hurts readability. This may affect the WSE. \r\n\r\nIn fact I would also
    test the same spacing disruption with a good sans and serif of similar width (equalizing
    for x-height), and see if that affects the WSE. My theory is that it is hard or
    impossible to get the balance of word image and wide enough spacing for legibility
    with a sans compared to a serif. This might show up in the WSE. \r\n\r\nThese
    issues of even color and good rhythm are ones that good type designers are concerned
    with. David Berlow has talked about them as enabling type to \"disappear\" as
    the reader is reading. They may only make a difference of less than 5% to reading,
    but that 5% may be the difference between screen and print, or between a good
    text font and a bad one. \r\n\r\nFinally, let me say that I do expect that such
    disruptions will show themselves in ease of reading, where by 'ease' I mean a
    combination of reading speed and comprehension over time. \r\n\r\nThese factors
    may not show up with easy materials for a short time, because the reader may be
    able to adjust for mildly adverse situations. However, if eg you have a series
    of SAT reading questions for people to do over a 3 hour period, with the goal
    to be getting as many right as possible, answering all, then I think you will
    get a measure of reading ease. The worse face for texts type, or the worse the
    combination of setting and type, the worse will be the performance. Also I would
    expect reports of fatigue. \r\n\r\nKevin has pointed to a 1948 book were there
    was no decline in reading performance over time, but this hasn't been repeated,
    and I suspect the methodology was flawed.   \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-17 22:03:47'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "More from me. I stumble over the idea that Pelli and Tillman\u2019s dissociations
    reveal indepenent reading processes, which each contribute a given number of words.\r\n\r\nI
    wonder if it would be less troublesome to say that Pelli and Tillmans manipulations
    measure three interacting factors rather than three independent processes. Reinterpreting
    Pelli and Tillman, could we say effective role-unit quantization is the largest
    factor in determining reading speed, grammaticality plays an important role, and
    interfacilitation comes in third. Ease of quantization into role-units accounts
    for about 61 percent, grammaticality accounts for about 22 per cent, and the affordance
    of interfacilitation within the quantization process accounts for the rest, about
    18 percent.\r\n\r\nI doubt if it\u2019s quite that simple though, because the
    knockouts Pelli and Tillman use introduce various bottlenecks. For example, alternating
    case probably introduces two: a componental abstraction \u2014 separate integrations
    over distinct areas \u2014 bottleneck (which probably affects attentional effort),
    and a sophisticated guessing bottleneck (which probably causes more reliance on
    grammaticality).\r\n\r\nIf they are interacting factors, changing levels of grammaticality
    or levels of interfacilitation affordance should change the amount of role-unit
    quantization required.\r\n\r\n[Interfacilitation: when the visual cortex sees
    role a (for example a bowl or stem) at position x within a full bounded map, role
    b at position y, and role c at position z, this may facilitate a more accurate
    and quicker decision about what exists at position w.]\r\n\r\n[role units are
    things like strokes and counters. They are elements of intermediate complexity,
    existing between simple features (like curvature, or abscence of closure) and
    letters (which in the word context are identifiable as parts). Some studies purport
    to show  that intermediate complexity features are optimal for the basic visual
    task of the classification of wholes.]\r\n\r\n\r\n[quantization is my name for
    the process that moves from detection of simple features to discrimination of
    distinctive role-units. I use quantization because this process is not purely
    bottom-up. It is driven by learned perceptual knowledge of these structures of
    intermediate complexity]"
  created: '2008-11-24 00:06:19'
- author:
    name: Denis Pelli
    picture: 115062
  body: "Sorry to be so slow responding. I was hounded by reminder letters for overdue
    reviews. They\u2019re now done. Phew! \r\n\r\n<strong>David \u201Cdberlow\u201D
    (Nov. 15):</strong> <em>\u201CFabulous!\u201D</em> Thanks! \r\n<em>\u201CThis
    is done by \u2026 alternating case in words. I cannot help but think this is over-doing
    it.\u201D</em> You are certainly right in noting that there are subtler ways of
    disturbing word shape. (I like your suggestion of alternating case using small
    instead of large caps.) However, your concern does not apply to the needs of our
    paper. We estimate the value of the process (word shape) by how much the reader
    slows down when we knock it out. The finding, surprising to some, is that knocking
    out word shape causes only a small reduction in reading rate. Thus, the fact that
    we used a really brutal method (alternating case) yet still had only a small effect
    makes our result all the more convincing. Thus, given the conclusion that our
    paper was arguing for, it is helpful to err on the side of \u201Coverdoing it\u201D.
    (If we had obtained the opposite result then it would be have been desirable to
    go back and try something subtler, such as you suggest.)\r\n\r\nSorry, I could
    not figure out what you\u2019re referring to as <em>\u201CS&S\u2019s study\u201D</em>.\r\n\r\n<strong>Peter
    \u201Ceene_son\u201D (Nov. 15, 17)</strong>: <em>\u201Cthis moves the discussion
    forward\u201D</em>. Great. Thanks!\r\n\r\n<em>\u201CHowever, I can\u2019t be confident
    that each of your three manipulations affects only one of the three sources of
    word information\u201D</em>\r\nOur paper gives reasoning and evidence to reach
    this conclusion. To challenge the conclusion you have to challenge the evidence
    or the reasoning. Simply describing another theory has no bearing. The reason
    that we give for concluding that the knockouts were selective is that the effect
    (in word/min) of each knockout on reading rate was the same, independent of whether
    the other knockouts were present or not. \r\n\r\n<em>\u201CInterestingly, I discovered
    while trying to read your paper with partially fogged-up glasses, I could read
    the L-knockout text with remarkable ease and accuracy. When my glasses cleared
    up the L-knockout text again became very tough-going.\u201D</em>\r\nWow! That
    is very interesting. I\u2019ll try that myself. Thanks!\r\n\r\n<em>\u201CI wonder
    if it would be less troublesome to say that Pelli and Tillmans manipulations measure
    three interacting factors rather than three independent processes.\u201D</em>\r\nIs
    your theory consistent with our data? That would be very interesting.\r\n\r\n<strong>Bill
    \u201CWilliam Berkson\u201D (Nov. 15-17):</strong> I like your matrix-resonance
    theory. It puts all the elements together in a novel way. And I also like, very
    much, that you propose experiments to test it. However, as you may already have
    noticed, suggesting a new experiment is a bit like suggesting a new typeface.
    It is very unusual for a type designer to create a new face that somebody else
    suggested (unless, of course, it\u2019s a client paying for the privilege). Similarly,
    scientists usually do their own experiments. If you want to create a new typeface
    or do a new experiment, usually, you have to do it yourself. However, for pilot
    data, it can be quite informal, just printing a few sheets and taking simple measures
    that don\u2019t require any fancy equipment. \r\n\r\nAs for the Word Superiority
    Effect, I agree with you and Kevin when you say, <em>\u201Cthis word superiority
    effect has always been the best argument for the existence of some kind of word-gestalt
    effect\u201D</em>. However, that was before my paper on this (Pelli et al. 2003).
    We replicated the effect, but presented a mathematical analysis showing that the
    effect is not big enough to be compelling evidence for a word-based process. The
    effect can be accounted for by a letter-based process. No one has contested our
    conclusion, so the word-superiority effect (of the typical size measured) is no
    longer good evidence for a word-based process. I\u2019m afraid this reduces the
    impact of the elegant word-superiority-effect experiments you proposed here. \r\n\r\nPelli,
    D. G., Farell, B., & Moore, D. C. (2003) The remarkable inefficiency of word recognition.
    <em>Nature,</em> 423, 752-756. \r\nArticle:\r\nhttp://www.psych.nyu.edu/pelli/pubs/pelli2003words.pdf\r\nSupplementary
    demonstration:\r\nhttp://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v423/n6941/extref/nature01516-s1.pdf\r\n\r\nI
    think that the results presented in that paper are consistent with your matrix-resonance
    theory. Our results indicate that the word is not just one feature, nor is a letter,
    the features must be smaller than a letter. Which agrees with your theory.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    we have another, later, paper showing that the word cannot be recognized unless
    the letters are separated (Martelli et al. 2005). This is the \u201Ccrowding\u201D
    effect that Peter has mentioned several times. I don\u2019t think that your matrix-resonance
    theory can cope with these data, because, according to your theory, the break
    between letters should not matter.\r\n\r\nMartelli, M., Majaj, N. J., & Pelli,
    D. G. (2005) Are faces processed like words? A diagnostic test for recognition
    by parts. <em>Journal of Vision,</em> 5(1), 58-70, http://journalofvision.org/5/1/6/\r\nPelli,
    D. G., & Tillman, K. A. (2008) The uncrowded window of object recognition. <em>Nature
    Neuroscience,</em> 11(10):1129 - 1135. \r\nhttp://psych.nyu.edu/pelli/pubs/pelli2008uncrowded-complete.pdf\r\n\r\n<em>\u201CThus
    by letter substitution you are completely defeating the kind of whole word reading
    that Peter thinks is going on routinely. \u2026 you are not testing for the kind
    of whole word reading that Peter theorizes exists and that my model represents.\u201D</em>\r\nYes,
    that\u2019s right. We were not aware of your theories at that time. But I think
    that the Martelli et al. paper above presents strong evidence against the matrix-resonance
    model. Letters do matter.\r\n\r\nWhen you say, \u201Ca series of SAT reading questions\u201D,
    what does \u201CSAT\u2019 stand for? Speed-accuracy tradeoff? Scholastic aptitude
    test?\r\n\r\nI\u2019ll respond to your fatigue theory in my next post.\r\n\r\nBest\r\n\r\nDenis\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-24 05:17:11'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Denis, thanks much for your reply. \r\n\r\nObviously, I will have to read
    your papers that you reference to see whether or not I find your tests and arguments
    convincing. That will probably take me some time, as I have a crush of other work
    to deal with right now. \r\n\r\nI would just note at the outset that the matrix-resonance
    model I suggested does not dictate how much of reading is by letters and how much
    by word pattern of sub-letter features; it just allows that some of it is. I don't
    know how much of it is, but I do think that there is at least enough to be of
    importance to the issues dealt with by type designers. \r\n\r\nAs David Berlow
    mentioned, either in this thread or another recent one, whether the foundry can
    close the sale of a font to publications often depends on type designer creating
    type that becomes 'invisible' when you read it. 'Invisible' means that you are
    unaware of the type for most of the time reading, and just absorb the meaning.
    There are also intervals when you orient yourself on the page, looking at headlines,
    first lines etc., and there you do 'see' the type, and aesthetics have a strong
    impact in these intervals.  \r\n\r\nThe factors that contribute to 'invisibility'
    include even color, good spacing, and letter proportions that have good rhythm.
    These may affect reading speed or fatigue only by a few percent, but it is enough
    to make the difference between good and bad type, or between the relatively low
    resolution screen and high resolution printed matter. \r\n\r\nThere a possible
    confounding factor here on the issue of word-gestalt vs letter reading, and that
    is that these factors may allow for more ready letter identification. But the
    word superiority effect may allow us to separate what is going on, which is why
    I suggested those experiment. Again, I'll have to read your papers to see whether
    I'm still optimistic about this being an indicator.\r\n\r\nI would point out,
    as you reply to Peter, that you reference an alternative theory and experiments,
    but do not account here attempt to respond to and account for the Stanovich et
    al results that I \"predicted\", namely the decay of the word superiority effect
    with greater spacing. Stanovich himself dismissed it (in a rather ad hoc manner
    IMHO) as being somehow due to confounding effects of masking. Going to longer
    exposure times--long SOAs--would undermine this masking explanation, if I've got
    it right. Whatever the truth is about reading, it needs to account for the spacing
    effect. By the way, Kevin is on your side in being skeptical about the WSE indicating
    anything important; but he has been open-minded enough to think it's worth testing,
    and I'm grateful for that. \r\n\r\nOh, I see I also failed to mention another
    indicator of ease of reading, other than speed and comprehension: how easy it
    is to proof-read a text and catch errors. That's a noticeable difference between
    screen and print, as most people can testify.    \r\n\r\nYes, by SAT I meant the
    Scholastic Aptitude Test. These reading tests are already standardized as regards
    difficulty, and are pretty tough, so they would be used to test whether speed
    or comprehension or both decay with time, and hence fatigue, using different type
    and formats.\r\n\r\nI think such tests would be revealing, as I don't think there
    have been really good tests of the 'goodness' of text type for reading, to discriminate
    better and worse type, and better and worse layout. This is really a different
    testing issue than letter vs word processing, though it may be related.\r\n\r\nAs
    to what scientists do, your description is not quite accurate. A lot of scientists
    collaborate on tests that others conceive, including very often junior ones with
    a senior professor. Collaboration with colleagues on an equal level is also not
    that uncommon. Collaboration with someone outside academia is unusual, but there's
    actually no law against it :) "
  created: '2008-11-24 15:06:10'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Denis, my first response questioned whether, under a different \u2014 and
    I think fuller or richer \u2014 account of reading, the knockouts you propose
    \u2014 straight-forward though they seem \u2014 are properly selective, or at
    least selective in the way you say they are, and consequently whether they lead
    to pure additive-factor measures of the processes you say they do. My second reply
    was to suggest that your results might indeed be compatible with \u2014 or at
    least potentially informative about \u2014 components of such an alternative point
    of view.\r\n\r\nBill, assuming a purely sub-letter feature based process is routine
    for skilled readers reading ordinary extended blocks of text, and is the key to
    invisibility during immersive reading, it would be useful to know not only how
    much, but under what circumstances a letter-process (componental abstraction)
    occurs.\r\n\r\nDenis, I'll try to respond to your comment about the Martelli et.
    al. paper presenting strong evidence against the matrix-resonance model in a day
    or so."
  created: '2008-11-24 17:08:58'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Denis: \"The finding, surprising to some, is that knocking out word shape
    causes only a small reduction in reading rate.[..]\"\r\n...over a six word span,
    using attention deflecting mid-word uppercase letters which are usually found
    seeking attention for recognition of specific mid-word caps. :) The more brutal
    the methods used to \"enlighten\" the process, the less likely you are to reach
    a conclusion that matches <em>our</em> results, which is, after all the \"experimentation\"
    is over, what counts to actual readers of actual text. \r\n\r\nI should also add,
    that the letter-<em>only</em> recognition camp, has used this kind of study to
    justify  technologies afflicting millions of users with both bad letter shapes
    and bad letter spacing. So, there may be a lot to what you say, but when the words
    pile up and the resolution sinks, your studies become less useful to readers,
    and apparently useless to us. For when bad type and typography, that well below
    the norms produced by trained type and graphic designers, are the starting points
    for reading studies, we can not only shrug.\r\n\r\n(S&S in my previous post, refers
    to Sung & Schwartz)\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-25 14:24:31'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Denis: \u201CThe finding, surprising to some, is that knocking out word shape
    causes only a small reduction in reading rate.[..]\u201D\r\n\r\nMy way of saying
    this might be, \u201Cthe finding is that forcing the visual cortex to use the
    alternative letter-by-letter path causes a significant (18 percent) reduction
    in reading rate.\r\n\r\nBut I expect there will be other costs: a significant
    increase in the attentional effort required, and a subsequent decline in ease
    of sense-following.\r\n\r\nThis would all make sense if fast reading depends on
    <em><strong>resisting</strong></em> <strong>isolating</strong> to identify, and,
    instead, relies on <em><strong>promoting</strong></em> a direct, foveally-based
    <strong>compounding</strong> of featural and configural information all across
    the bounded map. \r\n\r\nAgain, featural here means: \u2018role-unit\u2019 and
    \u2018evoked-form\u2019 information, or strokes and counters information. Configural
    information can be of two sorts, first order and second order. First order configural
    information is direct association or local combination information about role
    relationships \u2014 for example, if and where a bowl combines with an ascending
    or descending stem. Second order configural information is more global relational
    information \u2014 for example, whether the counters form a sequential circular
    / tubular-and-open-at-the-top / circular and-open-to-the-right pattern, or some
    other pattern.\r\n\r\nIn the sense that first order configural information is
    compiled, letters matter, or are used."
  created: '2008-11-25 16:32:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Much respect to Pelli & Tillman for their work, which has produced fascinating
    results.\r\n\r\nHowever, I think their procedure underestimates the effect of
    context (S).\r\n\r\nThe premise that \"We tend to read by serial object recognition\",
    and the subsequent use of RSVP, are off the mark.\r\nIf we read, as P&T say, by
    \"a series of fixations, rather than a continuous sweep\" (quantum, not wave?),
    this is at odds with their experiments, which employ a method that constrains
    the reader into a passive mode analagous to a continuous sweep of single words.\r\n\r\nReading
    uses serial fixations as an active process, saccadic movements (with significant
    regressions) probing long tracts of text, often skipping words. \r\n\r\nHow does
    the reader decide where to make each next fixation?\r\nFrom information perceived
    in the parafovea. So reading proceeds by saccadic probing, directed by lexical
    analysis (fuzzy logic) of parafoveal information.\r\n\r\nThis is \"W\" and \"S\"
    processing, which is \"knocked out\" by the RSVP method, so how can meaningful
    conclusions be made about the role of S (context) in particular, if the participant's
    ability to actively incorporate it by saccadic probing is denied, with visual
    contextual awareness restricted to a single letter on each side of the word at
    hand?\r\n\r\nGiven that fast readers spend less time in fixations, and have less
    regressions, we can deduce that expert readers are better interpreters of parafoveal
    information, i.e. \"S\", context.\r\n\r\nThis is consistent with the way one learns
    to read, moving up from parts of letters to syllables, to words, &c. &c. \r\n\r\nP
    & T's concept of \"context\" is lexical, not visual, and does not account for
    one's awareness, during normal reading, of text in blocks. Typographic layout,
    if you will. \r\n\r\nIt seems to me that the operant space-time dimension of reading
    is much larger than a few words. Multiply the 2.5 to 3 second span of consciouness
    by the number of saccadic movements per second, and we have about twelve saccades
    in play, two of which, on average, are regressive. I theorize that in the moving
    window, which encompasses a good long sentence, the reader creates a perceptual
    construct--a dynamic grammatical image propelled by the meaning it divulges--using
    the culmulative \"spatial mapping\" associated with saccadic movement to organize
    the fine details at the centre of fixations, and the fuzzier information in between,
    into a coherent semiotic whole, realized in notanic (Cartesian) space. \r\n\r\nWhat
    kind of saccadic movement occurs during RSVP? It doesn't turn off, so it would
    seem to be \"regressive\", in the sense that it would attach itself to lower level
    reading functions, focusing on letter details. "
  created: '2008-11-25 23:13:44'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"However, I think their procedure underestimates the effect of context (S).\r\n\r\nTo
    say the least.\r\n\r\n As dedicated to \"science\" as these i dotters and t-crossers
    are, they seem to think \"reading\" is closer to an eye chart exam than a novel
    experience. ;P\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-11-26 11:45:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "What I find amazing is the a human can read pretty damn well even under what
    would be described as very bad conditions and still comprehend what is said. Bad
    type, bad lighting, bad printing, blotty paper, water stains, poor spelling, all
    lowercase, texting shortcuts, bad handwriting, torn pages, don't prevent us from
    reading. I think the human perception/reception/comprehension is pretty amazing
    and functions extremely well. I wonder if we make too much out of reading studies
    and assume there is a problem that is type related when there is not? Except for
    handicapped readers with vision problems, dyslexia, or some other physical issue,
    are we wasting a lot of time for very little gain? These are questions, not statements
    of opinion.\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-11-26 15:45:30'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "<em>This is \u201CW\u201D and \u201CS\u201D processing, which is \u201Cknocked
    out\u201D by the RSVP method</em>\r\n\r\nThat is a testable prediction. With W
    and S knocked out, people should  read slower with RSVP than normal reading, but
    the data says that people read faster with RSVP (though few enjoy it).\r\n\r\nIt
    might be easier to think of a regressive saccade as looking at something you\u2019ve
    looked at before, rather than a eye movement that isn\u2019t left-to-right. When
    looking around the world during non-reading activities you fixate on objects 3
    to 4 times a second. Sometimes your eyes move to the left, sometimes to the right,
    sometimes in just about the same location (though with a slight movement). A regressive
    movement here could be to the left or right depending on where you just looked.
    RSVP eye movements aren\u2019t left to right because the words stay in roughly
    the same place, but they\u2019re not regressive eye movements because new words
    appear.\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-26 17:02:13'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"but the data says that people read faster with RSVP (though few enjoy it)\"\r\n\r\nIs
    the hallmark of reading \u2014 smooth sense-following \u2014 affected?"
  created: '2008-11-26 17:21:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>That is a testable prediction. With W and S knocked out, people should
    read slower with RSVP than normal reading, but the data says that people read
    faster with RSVP (though few enjoy it).</em>\r\n\r\nThat's what the data says,
    within the closed loop of the test, which considers S (context) to be lexical,
    rather than visual.\r\n\r\nIn other words, in RSVP the contextual S component
    of the reader's closure on the meaning of the word being viewed is based purely
    on the lexical meaning of words previously read, not, as in \"real\" reading,
    using information from the full space-time visual awareness the reader has of
    the text: approximately 12 saccades, and a considerable amount of typography.\r\n\r\nSo,
    knocking out lexical context is not the same as knocking out visual context, even
    if they ARE both knocked out in RSVP.\r\nIt might have meaning within the closed
    loop of the RSVP test, but what does that tell us about the role of S in real
    reading?\r\n\r\nHow to explain the greater speed of RSVP?\r\nIn RSVP results,
    \"S\" accounts for 22% of reading rate. In normal reading, the percentages may
    be different. If the values of L, S, and W are indeed additive, lets assume that
    the 60% slowdown of normal reading is produced by more time spent on S--now the
    values of L and S become almost identical.\r\n\r\nOne thing the difference in
    speed between normal reading and RSVP might suggest is that the extra time, in
    normal reading, devoted to awareness of a larger visual field of text, shows how
    important visual context it is to \"smooth sense-following\", when reading is
    considered as more than just \"object recognition\". \r\n\r\n<em>RSVP eye movements
    aren\u2019t left to right because the words stay in roughly the same place, but
    they\u2019re not regressive eye movements because new words appear.</em>\r\n\r\nSorry
    for the confusion over \"regressive\"; I meant that looking at details of letters,
    rather than whole words, was \"regressive\", in the sense that it harks back to
    how one learns to read. Can't resist word play.\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-26 18:17:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I wonder if we make too much out of reading studies and assume there
    is a problem that is type related when there is not?</em>\r\n\r\nThank, you Chris.
    This is what I have been saying for years.\r\n\r\nI am interested to understand
    how we read, and hence in studies of reading. But the fact that it is difficult
    to determine everything that is involved in reading shouldn't make us think that
    reading is difficult, let alone that there is a pathology of type design. 'Readability'
    is not the product of reading studies, it is the prerequisite subject of study."
  created: '2008-11-26 21:27:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "John,\r\nI have yet to see a study can can truly differentiate the differences
    in typefaces well enough to be of much value. Serif vs sans is hardly enough information.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-11-26 22:04:29'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Chris, the purpose of reading studies is to understand reading. If its mechanism
    is better understood, it may help those with dyslexia, as well as shed light on
    many other issues, including those concerning type.  \r\n\r\nI don't think that
    many reading studies focus on type--quite the contrary.\r\n\r\nHowever, I am of
    the opinion that there are small but still significant differences in readability
    due to type design and layout design. Scientific research can potentially shed
    light on these variables, though it hasn't done much so far. \r\n\r\nDenis, you
    write about my matrix-resonance model: \r\n\r\n\"I don\u2019t think that your
    matrix-resonance theory can cope with these data, because, according to your theory,
    the break between letters should not matter.\"\r\n\r\nThis is absolutely not a
    correct characterization of my theory. The separation of letters is on my theory
    vitally important because the sub-letter features have to be detectable by the
    eye for the ensemble pattern to be recognized. I expect that either too much crowding
    or too much spacing will destroy the Word Superiority effect. Optimal spacing--within
    a certain range--is important to readability. \r\n\r\nIn my view type lays down
    a grid, roughly twice as fine as the 'n', and our perceptual apparatus has been
    trained to pick up salient sub-letter features falling on and deviating from the
    grid. Further, as Peter has related to me, there have been Fourier transforms
    done on pictures of type that confirm the presence of such regular, but not exact,
    frequency of features. In effect we type designers have to 'tune' our letters
    to get it right! And honestly, that's how it feels in making decisions on letter
    width and proper spacing. \r\n\r\nIndeed, in Peter's view spacing for good readability
    of type is actually at an interval where crowding would normally make object identification
    in the fovea more difficult. The key thing is the play of type forms against the
    grid, and the matching of that to the inner matrix. \r\n\r\nI haven't had time
    to study your papers that you think refute the importance of the Word Superiority
    Effect, though Peter doesn't think they do this--he will post later on this no
    doubt. As will I, but it will be a while, alas. \r\n\r\nHappy Thanksgiving all!"
  created: '2008-11-26 22:25:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I don\u2019t think that many reading studies focus on type\u2014quite the
    contrary.\"\r\n\r\nI didn't say that there were. The problem is that the few that
    do have an impact far beyond the intension of the scientists doing the study--as
    well as getting more attention then they deserve from editors and clients who
    become armed and dangerous. We have beat this discussion to death many times here
    so I won't persue it any further and get the cannons roaring again.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-11-26 22:53:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Chris Allen's original post wasn't about readability research, but about performance
    testing of typographic products.
  created: '2008-11-27 00:10:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It has been so long that I looked at the early posts on this thread that
    I didn't remember. Sorry, I will just shut up now and go about my business :-/\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-11-27 00:25:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>I am of the opinion that there are small but still significant
    differences in readability due to type design and layout design.</em>\r\n\r\nHow
    are we defining 'significant'?"
  created: '2008-11-27 03:13:39'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John, you ask: \"How are we defining 'significant'?\"\r\n\r\nBasically, if
    it shows up subjectively that readers consistently find it more comfortable to
    read one in extended text rather than another, that is a good enough test for
    me. Subjective self-reports would be good enough. It would be necessary to design
    the questionnaire so that the subjects judge reading experience--and the results
    are not confounded by report on the type as display or pet theories of the reader.
    \r\n\r\nAnd, by the way, I think you could show a difference in subjective result
    pretty easily by, for example, reducing leading way beyond what is ordinarily
    acceptable.  \r\n\r\nOf course, I would prefer to have more objective measures
    that correlate with the subjective ones. For example, the fatigue test I mentioned
    above--or a test for ease of detecting typos, which I also mentioned. In extreme
    cases, it might show up simply in reading speed in a relatively short period.
    \ \r\n\r\nFor example many people report they don't like reading extended text
    on screen, and they also find it easier to proof what they have written in print.
    The subjective report is significant to me, and I think it would be easy to test
    the relative errors in proofing. "
  created: '2008-11-27 04:01:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill, first you wrote 'I am of the opinion that there are small but still
    significant differences in <strong>readability</strong> due to type design and
    layout design', and now 'if it shows up subjectively that readers consistently
    find it more <strong>comfortable</strong> to read one in extended text rather
    than another, that is a good enough test for me'.\r\n\r\nOne of the reasons I
    have avoided getting heavily involved in this thread is that I don't think it
    is clear what the discussion is about. On the one hand, the original post referenced
    'improved reader experience', and on the other hand it referenced 'legibility',
    and seened to presume a correlation that has not been defined."
  created: '2008-11-27 04:43:00'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Chris, I do think this thread has covered some new ground, so I hope you'll
    bear with us.\r\n\r\nAlso, as I said before, a tabulation of the perceptual processing
    impact of manipulating type-form microvariables is maddeningly elusive. So I'm
    not as confident as Bill that we'll soon be able to gauge specific impacts. I
    think John is quite right in implying that pure and simple readability is a fairly
    wide plateau. I\u2019ve used the plateau image before, but it actually comes from
    reading Denis Pelli and his associates. The image is of a steep rise, than a wide
    plateau followed by a gradual decline. This is where I'd look for impacts: where
    the steep rise starts; where does the plateau sit; how wide is it?\r\n\r\nThirdly,
    some readers might find little practical benefit in arguing about whether reading
    is wholistic in some sense, or by parts. But to me what's at stake is the self-understanding
    of typographers and type designers in what they're doing. If reading is holistic
    in the sense Bill and I elaborate, then there are functional, perceptual processing
    reasons for type designers to do what they are doing to guarantee the gestalt
    integrity in optical terms of the words their letters are to form. A by parts
    view gives a much less clear picture of why this might be important from a \u2018perceptual
    processing in reading\u2019 point of view, so the \u2018tuning\u2019 obsessiveness
    of type designers becomes an aesthetically fetishistic tribal quirk.\r\n\r\nFinally,
    Denis: despite some reservations, I think the reasoning in the Martelli, et. al.,
    paper is basically sound, if and only if isolation to identify provides the only
    release from crowding. I think you may be right about this when it comes to paravoveal
    vision, but for foveal vision I think the idea of Hess that \u201Cin flanking
    conditions where contour interaction is evident, the visual system shifts it scale
    of analysis to more relevant higher spatial frequencies\u201D might be of some
    use. If the shift in spatial scale of analysis to more relevant higher spatial
    frequencies also relieves crowding we are back into the domain to Bill\u2019s
    Matrix Resonance model. The shift fails in parafoveal vision, because the parafovea
    only supports coarse sampling, but can succeed in foveal vision, where the density
    of receptor cells is much higher."
  created: '2008-11-27 13:41:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John, I think there are some very clear issues here. I myself find lengthy
    posts here--such as mine!--difficult to read on screen, and prefer to print them
    out. And I know I proof read less well on the screen. I have heard many others
    report the same thing. This is a reality, and a good theory of reading should
    be able to account for it. Do you deny that these things are a reality?\r\n\r\nIn
    pioneering research in psychology it is often not clear exactly what concept will
    be useful in building a theory. As experiments are done, that can be clarified.
    For example I have heard that the \"introvert/extrovert\" scale has held up pretty
    well as a testable and real phenomenon, while other concepts from the early 20th
    century have not held up so well. \r\n\r\nIf you refuse to investigate something
    because it is not yet operational, then you block scientific progress. For me,
    my late Uncle Ben Lieberman's definition of readability is sufficiently clear
    to try to make it more operationally testable: \"Readability is the ease with
    which the eye can absorb the message and move along the line.\" This contrasted
    with \"Legibility is the ease with which one letter can be told from another.\"
    And that has an illustration moving from a b to an old style italic h, with the
    foot turned in, to a roman h. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-27 15:32:30'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Bill, strictly speaking, the eye does not absord the message, it just moves
    along the line. I don't think the first part of the definition is sufficiently
    clear at all.\r\n\r\nHerman Bouma defined legibility (1979) as \"the technical
    quality of the text close to the centre of vision.\" For him this includes both
    the quality of the symbols proper (sharpness, type, font, size, luminous contrast
    with background) and such layout factors as distances between lines.\u201D  He
    writes, \u201C[p]roper guidance of the eye along and between the lines requires
    suitable margins, vertically aligned line beginings, and interline distances more
    than 3-4 percent of line length.\u201C And he continues, \u201C[l]egibility factors
    are sufficiently know both in graphic design and in psychology: what seems lacking
    are thorough checks on such information and a translation in terms of rules of
    thumb and quick standard experiments to make the proper notions generally applicable.\u201D\r\n\r\nBouma
    then goes on to say, \u201C[t]he quality of the content of a text is usually referred
    to as \u201Creadability\u201D and includes ease of comprehension.\u201D\r\n\r\nWe
    might want to parse this differently, but in terms of discussions between typophiles
    and psychophiles it gives us a reasonable point at which to jump in."
  created: '2008-11-27 16:02:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Peter, you're right that \"readability\" is often used to refer to the quality
    of the writing, of how easy it is understand quite apart from graphic qualities.
    I think in using 'eye' Lieberman was metaphorically trying to indicate that whatever
    the graphic qualities of the text contribute to ready comprehension, that is \"readability\"
    in the context of type design and graphic design. Here what is referred to is
    a combination of speed, comprehension and comfort that come from graphic qualities.
    Now that concept is very broad, but it still is clearly distinguished from 'distinguishing
    one letter from another'. \r\n\r\nThe important issue here is that there is more
    to the graphic side of ease of reading than the ability to recognize individual
    letters. That I think is the same issue you and and I and many type designers
    differ from the current view of most reading psychologists. "
  created: '2008-11-27 17:50:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I myself find lengthy posts here\u2014such as mine!\u2014difficult to
    read on screen, and prefer to print them out... a good theory of reading should
    be able to account for it.</em>\r\n\r\nAre you on Mac or PC? \r\n\r\nSlightly
    more seriously:\r\nLet's suppose that younger people, such as the 17-25 year olds
    in the P & T research, don't have your screen-reading problem.\r\nHow could one
    know whether the effect is caused by physiological aging, or by cultural and technological
    changes? (On the principle that such reading preferences are performance factors
    that are hard-wired during the learning process.)\r\n\r\nI suppose it could be
    theorized that the room for evolution in reading norms occurs in the margin of
    error of scientific data.\r\n\r\nIn any event, reading theory that doesn't account
    for demographics...\r\n "
  created: '2008-11-27 18:02:42'
- author:
    name: innovati
    picture: 114494
  body: "It took me years to identify the pattern.  I've always been a big reader,
    but then my paper reading almost dropped off to nothing.  Most of that had been
    fiction.\r\n\r\nWhat I didn't recognize until later is that I'm still reading
    just as much, if not more, but now most of that's on the screen.  Wikipedia, blogs,
    forums.\r\n\r\nNow, I'm young, and so I've grown up having both screen and paper
    to read, but when it comes to types of reading I certainly have a very well defined
    preference.\r\n\r\nIt's brutal so try to sit through a fiction book, but I can't
    read a book on a screen.\r\n\r\nFor informative writing, like how-tos or step-by-step
    articles, I have to have it on the computer (no recipe books here).\r\n\r\nFor
    news and magazines, must be paper. (although I do skim PDF magazines and really
    enjoy those visually, bt I look at them, instead of reading them.\r\n\r\nOn screens
    I prefer sans-serifs, and on paper I prefer serifs.  I'm not sure of any underlying
    reason why, or if others are like me or it's just a personal preference, but I
    hope this information helps.\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-27 18:16:18'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Bill, again strictly speaking, I don't think graphic quality contributes
    <em>directly</em> to ready comprehension. The relationship is at best indirect.
    I think graphic quality <em>does</em> contribute directly to rapid automatic visual
    word-form resolution and to ease of navigation where information design is involved.
    And I think it can be shown that ready comprehension or smooth sense-following
    tends to be enhanced if visual word-form resolution \u2014 the foundational mecahnism
    in reading \u2014 is rapid, comfortable and robust.\r\n\r\nI we want to think
    of readability as a typographic measure, and express it in a way science can use,
    we should at a minimum explicitly tie it to my foundational mechanism, or an alternative
    to it, distinguishing between type-1 and type-2 readability."
  created: '2008-11-27 19:04:21'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I myself find lengthy posts here\u2014such as mine!\u2014difficult to read
    on screen, and prefer to print them out.\"\r\n\r\nNot wanting to give in to the
    slime, I have transitioned to setting the Mac to read what I write and I \"proof\"
    that way instead of using timber.\r\n\r\n\"I suppose it could be theorized that
    the room for evolution in reading norms occurs in the margin of error of scientific
    data.\"\r\n\r\nThough not nearly fast enough for the current crisis in writing,
    reading, and science. That's the one thing I wish all these threads were about.
    :)\r\n\r\nCheers! "
  created: '2008-11-28 12:30:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: http://www.coldtype.net/Assets.08/pdfs/1108.Reader31.pdf
  created: '2008-11-28 20:44:58'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Denis, to add to my previous comment to you. From a follow-up to Hess, I
    learned letters are broad band stimuli that require integration across spatial
    frequencies. The Hess, et. al., paper is \u201CThe foveal \u2018crowding\u2019
    effect: physics or physiology?\u201D Robert F. Hess, Steven C. Dakin, Neil Kapoor
    (2000); the follow-up in question is \u201CEfficient integration across spatial
    frequencies for letter identification in foveal and peripheral vision.\u201D Anirvan
    S. Nandy and  Bosco S. Tjan (2008). \r\n\r\nMy tests with fourier transforms reveal,
    however, that classically readable types, spaced according to long-established
    typographical standards reveal a very specific sort of narrow phase alignment,
    especially in the horizontal direction, where the vertical stems and the vertical
    parts of curves lie. This suggests to me that visual tuning to this narrow phase
    alignment channel at the granularity of strokes might be important in normal immersive
    reading, whereas categorical perception in letter tasks depends more on integration
    <em>across</em> frequencies. \r\n\r\nTesting spatial tuning in letter identification
    versus immersive reading tasks, and correlating this with WSE results for when
    phase alignment is normal and disturbed, might confirm whether or not narrow phase
    alignment might indeed be necessary for reading, and integration across spatial
    frequencies less critical than in letter tasks. This could add a lot of weight
    to my surmise about a shift to higher spatial frequencies relieving crowding,
    clearly dissociate \u2018by parts\u2019 processing and our version of holistic
    processing, and thus place matrix resonance back on the table, as I said before.\r\n\r\nAdding
    to this is the recent find that \u201CThe visual cortical \u2018word form area\u2019
    is selective for high spatial frequencies in humans but not monkeys\u201D (Bilenko,
    Rajimehr, Young and Tootell, 2008)!"
  created: '2008-11-30 21:13:21'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "To follow up on Peter's point about the higher frequency of letter parts
    as opposed to letters, here is an experiment to test this. \r\n\r\nThe model I
    am advocating is that the letter parts are fitting roughly on a grid, or a regular
    interval, about the width of the two sides of the n--rather than the advance width
    of an n, which would be the letter interval. The brains of proficient readers
    click onto that grid, and slot letter features into a mental matrix, as I described
    above. \r\n\r\nIf that is so, then it is likely that the WSE would be destroyed
    more effectively by irregular spacing or irregular letter widths, as compared
    to simply tracking a word more widely or more tightly. In other words an   \r\n\r\na
    cc or dion   ef fec t    li k e    t hi s\r\n\r\nwill mess up word identification
    more than \r\n\r\nr e g u l a r          w i d e        s p a c i n g \r\n\r\nlike
    that. (edit: the \"smart\" formatting of Typophile replaces multiple word spaces
    so I can't show it just as text here! I'll try to get to doing some GIFs soon.)
    \ Examples like this are given in Gerard Unger's \"While You're Reading.\"\r\n\r\nSo
    I think that the grid-matrix matching idea predicts that the WSE will be destroyed
    by irregular spacing, where the variations of the same amount, consistently applied,
    would not destroy the WSE by itself. So first we could take the visual angles
    at which Stanovich et al. got the WSE to vanish, then go below that until the
    WSE re-appears. Then we would use that unit irregularly, and that should destroy
    the WSE, even though it exists when that spacing is regular. \r\n\r\nWe could
    also mess up the rhythm by expanding and condensing letters, and I think that
    would equally mess things up.\r\n\r\nFurther this could be checked against the
    Fourier transform pictures that give an objective measure of how much the grid
    is messed up, and how that correlates with the vanishing of the WSE. I think that
    would be powerful evidence of the importance of regular frequency.\r\n\r\nNow
    you could still argue that regular frequency simply helps identify letters, though.
    But I think that doing the same tests with blanked-out letter parts will be the
    strongest argument for the matrix resonance model. Then irregularity of spacing
    will cause readability to immediately fall apart. This may even be evident even
    in raw reading speed. Our ability to read regularly spaced letters with missing
    parts--and not read well at all those with irregularly spaced or formed letters
    with missing parts--will show that there is something in the matrix resonance
    model. Irregular spacing should not be so much of a problem in letter identification,
    but it will be in word image built directly from letter parts. \r\n\r\nps. Denis
    it just occurred to me that you could also do a kind of triple comparison somewhat
    similar to what you did in your recent paper: first regular reading speed, then
    letters with irregular spacing, then letters with sub-features blanked out, then
    letters with features blanked out and irregularity. It seems to me that the on
    the matrix resonance model you would expect that the reduction of speed for the
    combo of features blanked out plus irregularity would be greater than the sum
    of the irregular spacing of full letters and the blanked out letter parts only.\r\n\r\nThat
    wouldn't require the whole WSE testing stuff, maybe.    \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-01 00:40:40'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"The brains of proficient readers click onto that grid, and slot letter
    features into a mental matrix, as I described above.\"\r\nAbsolute nonsense. Global
    thinking and the long and previously untortured practice of type design will re-inform
    you on this when you have time. ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-03 12:10:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "David, what exactly is nonsense? \r\n\r\nIn writing 'letter features' I meant
    'sub-letter features', such as joins, open counters in a left or right direction,
    ascender on the right or left, etc. \r\n\r\nAre you saying that we don't use a
    word pattern of sub-letter features, but first resolve into letters, as Denis
    favors? \r\n\r\nBy 'grid' here I mean a fairly regular sequence of vertical elements,
    as well as elements falling near the base line or x-height. They deviate somewhat
    from regularity, which is where the information on what letter part or letter
    we are looking at comes from. I thought this was a view you advocated. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-03 15:16:37'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "David, would it help to say that the receptive fields in the visual cortex
    are phasally tuned in relation to a task, so when visual information, black and
    white, in the horizontal dimension is narrowly phase aligned at the granularity
    of strokes and counters, it is easier to handle the information all at once and
    as a group with space-delimited boundaries, rather than by subdividing into independant
    processing cells?\r\n\r\nI hate to inflict this on the practice, but when I take
    my type-practice/craft-wisdom-derived apriori\u2019s into science, I see a massive
    disconnect. Type designers can probably work perfectly well without solving the
    disconnect, provided they are able to stay focussed and aren't knocked off course.
    My choice has been not to dismiss the science or lay it aside, but to try and
    work through the disconnect. Surely there is room for that. However, maybe I'm
    not the man for it. It\u2019s labyrinthine, and I'm possibily delusional, or not
    knowledgable enough.\r\n\r\nNo one needs to watch, and maybe it\u2019s important
    that they don't.\r\n\r\nI interpret your attention to kerning and tuning strokes
    in relation to each other as fine-tuning proper salience, engineering distinctive
    cue-values and embedding a font and type-size specific phase alignment. Is this
    not of use? It\u2019s not up to me to tell you how to acheive it. Just that this,
    in psychological, perceptual-processing terms, is a <em>functionally relevant</em>
    dimension of what your engagement with letters amounts to, and why.\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-03 15:58:51'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Bill: \"David, what exactly is nonsense?\"\r\nSorry, not nonsense, but I
    think it is not sensible to describe a model for a multi-script species that sounds
    so Latin script dependent. And Bill, when you propose to test anything by radically
    altering the spacing, I can't picture trying to get people to play chess after
    one has rearranged the squares into stripes.\r\n\r\nPeter: \"...it is easier to
    handle the information all at once and as a group with space-delimited boundaries,
    rather than by subdividing into independent processing cells?\"\r\nIf it is easier
    to handle any information all at once rather than by subdividing into independant
    processing cells, don't you?\r\n\r\nThe original post is not the issues we're
    talking about though: \"The theory is[...] find a point where the legibility is
    maximised, and then find the point where the aesthetics don\u2019t negatively
    affect the legibility, then you can effectively improve the reader experience.\"\r\nLegibility
    and aesthetics are not solved in that way, are they? Except for this pesky web
    thing, legibility and aesthetics are solved together, to a specific legibility
    and aesthetic, of a presentation method, for an audience. That's one of the few
    cool things that's different for me about going to the eye doctor, and believe
    me, I believe I am my ophthalmologists most entertaining patient.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-04 15:15:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I can\u2019t picture trying to get people to play chess after one has rearranged
    the squares into stripes.\r\n\r\nI can't either, but that is what the test is
    supposed to show. Are you understanding the aim of the tests? \r\n\r\nThe relative
    distances of the different letter sub-parts in a word in relation to each other
    are important in Peter's theory and my model, and not only the relation of letter
    sub-parts within a letter. The relative positions of parts within a letter, enabling
    letter identification, should be the only important thing according to the 'slot
    processing' view of Denis Pelli and others. \r\n\r\nThe deterioration effect (dramatically
    slowing reading, destroying the WSE) of disruptive spacing thus contradicts 'slot
    processing', and shows the importance of 'gestalt' effects in reading words. Clear?\r\n\r\nFinally,
    this is not specific to latin type. Greek, Cyrillic, Hebrew, and Chinese all have
    the modular, regular rhythm that I am talking about when I say \"grid.\" I can
    also see it in South Asian scripts. I don't know about Arabic script, but I suspect
    the same is true for it.    "
  created: '2008-12-04 15:39:07'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Bill: http://130.15.90.245/interpretation_of_resuts.htm.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-12-05 20:57:10'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "David, you asked: \u201CIf it is easier to handle any information all at
    once rather than by subdividing into independant processing cells, don\u2019t
    you?\u201D\r\n\r\nThat's a nice piece of lateral thinking, if I get your drift.
    In analytic contexts, I distinguish levels of functioning \u2014 like sense-following
    and visual word-form resolution \u2014, or normative domains \u2014 like optical-grammatical
    integrity and gestural-atmospheric force \u2014, while recognizing they are inextricably
    interwoven as you suggest when you say, \u201Clegibility and aesthetics are solved
    together, to a specific legibility and aesthetic, of a presentation method, for
    an audience.\u201D\r\n\r\nFunctional constraints interact, and the claims imposed
    by distinct normative domains intersect to form a multidimensional workspace."
  created: '2008-12-07 22:26:36'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>The relative distances of the different letter sub-parts in a word
    in relation to each other are important in Peter\u2019s theory and my model, and
    not only the relation of letter sub-parts within a letter.</em>\r\n\r\nBut that
    is possible without recourse to the idea of a 'grid', which is what I think David
    and I object to in your model. Denis Pelli's work indicates a contributing role
    of word shape in reading (considerably less than the role of letter recognition,
    but still significant and, apparently and interestingly, additive: if word shape
    is messed with, the reduction in reading speed is predictably reduced). What is
    a word? It is a group of letters in proximity, separated by space from other groups:
    the relative distance of the proximity and the space is what defines a word (at
    least in our writing system). Pelli has published another study (I don't know
    if it is referenced in this thread, not all of which I have been able to read;
    Kevin Larsen showed it to me last week), in which the particular parts of letters
    necessary to recognition are identified, i.e. the parts without which users are
    unable to reliably recognise the letters (not many surprises in these results
    for me). So what we can presume contributes significantly to word recognition
    is these crucial parts of letters <em>in proximity</em>. I don't see that a 'grid'
    is a necessary or useful concept to add to that of proximity.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-09 05:23:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John, you write \"I don't see that a 'grid' is a necessary or useful concept
    to add to that of proximity.\"\r\n\r\nThe issue is the utility of a 'grid' over
    the whole word vs a 'grid' over just individual letters.  \r\n\r\nWe know that
    the brain is able to orient letter parts within some kind of grid. The relative
    orientations and distances of different parts of a letter are important to its
    recognition as a particular letter. For example, if we take the top intersection
    of a \"b\" and slide it up, it will \"read\" as a cap D. And if we rotate a \"b\"
    180 degrees, it will read as a \"q\". So our brain has some way of coding distances
    and orientations that are on the printed page. \r\n\r\nFurthermore, these informational
    points consistently fall in certain places in the letter, such as x height and
    baseline--what I am calling the grid on the page. As you know that grid is actually
    on the screen when you design letters, and you take care as to where and how your
    letter parts fall in relation to that grid. Furthermore the rhythmic regularity
    of spacing and letter widths means that there is some approximate grid over the
    word also. \r\n\r\nSo this is what I am talking about when I write of information
    in a 'grid' on the page being fit into a 'matrix' in the brain. \r\n\r\nThe question
    I am putting, and I think my experiments will shed light on, is whether we are
    *directly* using information of the location of letter parts within one letter
    of a word in relation to parts within other letters in the word. By \"directly\"
    I mean without first resolving the letter parts into individual letters. \r\n\r\nIn
    other words, question is whether the brain first resolves the letter parts in
    \"the\" into \"t-h-e\", identifying all the letters, and doing a look-up. This
    is the current received view, which Peter calls \"slot processing\". \r\n\r\nWhat
    Peter and I have been suggesting is that it is more efficient for the brain to
    directly recognize the whole pattern of sub-letter features within the word, without
    the interim step of identifying the letters. Thus the crossbar of the t next to
    the ascender of the h, next of the middle bar of the e would read semantically
    as 'the' without ever needing a process of individual letter identification and
    word look up.  \r\n\r\nNow, there is no question but that our brain is capable
    of identifying such whole word patterns. As I mentioned, there are plenty of Chinese
    characters in which the parts are not meaningful on their own, and that have as
    many strokes as a short English word. And proficient Chinese readers have no problem
    in recognizing them in a flash. \r\n\r\nThere is also no question whether we can
    do 'slot processing'; that fact that we can read mixed-case words shows that we
    can do letter identification and look up. But we also read such mixed case words
    20% more slowly, as Denis reports above. So it is less efficient. Why is that?\r\n\r\nPeter
    and I suggest that is because we read many words directly by the word pattern
    of sub-letter parts, and that this is more efficient, faster. That's why Peter's
    idea of pattern recognition, and my model is useful. It explains why mixed case
    reading is slower. It also explains why, as I anticipated on Peter's theory, the
    Word Superiority Effect disappears with spacing--the word pattern image is messed
    up, even while the individual letters are preserved. \r\n\r\nIn my view, Peter's
    theory and my model will explain the results of the experiments I suggest, whereas
    the slot processing view will not.\r\n\r\nIf you and possibly David--though I
    don't know what he thinks--believe my theory is useless, please explain why the
    WSE disappears with extra spacing, and why reading mixed case is 20% slower, and
    how slot processing can explain the experiments I have proposed if they have the
    results I expect. \r\n\r\nPeter's and my theory would explain all these and slot
    processing would not, so far as I can see. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-09 15:13:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Wordspace is just a convention.\r\nThat's not what language sounds like,
    where the words are run together, as on Trajan's column.\r\n<strong>You</strong>could<strong>remove</strong>wordspace<strong>and</strong>print<strong>alternate</strong>letters<strong>in</strong>different<strong>weights</strong>,
    or remove thewordspace between articles/prepositions and thewords thatfollow them,
    or break every thing up in to syl la bles--and there would still be plen ty of
    leg i bil ity.\r\nYou could transfer wordspace to the temporal dimension, with
    RSVP.\r\n\r\nBy all means wordspace, but not necessarily wordspace.\r\n\r\nThe
    same premise applies to every apparently hard facet of typography.\r\nSure, selectively
    remove parts of letters, and it looks like you've discovered which parts of letters
    are essential to reading.\r\nBut that just shows what conventions our culture
    has settled on, and the associated techniques that are hard-wired when we learn
    to read as children.\r\nDepart from normal, and you slow down.\r\nPlay soccer
    with a rugby ball, and the game will slow down.\r\nDoesn't prove that roundness
    is the basis of ball games.\r\nPlay tennis with a shuttlecock; doesn't prove that
    ballness is a quality of games.\r\nAs Wittgenstein famously asked, what is a game?"
  created: '2008-12-09 17:00:22'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick, the interword space is a convention 'of our writing system', as I wrote.
    I am obviously talking about what constitutes a <em>visual</em> word in that system,
    not what constitutes a linguistic word. Of course there are other means that could
    be used to distinguish words, but they are not the means normally used in our
    writing system for more than a thousand years; nor do I think any of them provide
    as good readability. [The different weights for different words is particularly
    bad and, thanks to Denis Pelli, we now have a pretty good idea <em>why</em> it
    is bad: we have to adjust to different spatial frequencies for each word.]\r\n\r\nBill,
    I don't think your idea is useless by any means: I was querying your use of the
    term 'grid', which implies to me something much more regular than, perhaps, you
    mean. I've spent much of the past two days looking at <em>nasta'liq</em> text,
    so this might have influenced my reaction to the term 'grid'. But you seem to
    be using the term in a very loose way that seems not too different from my ideas
    of proximity and distance."
  created: '2008-12-09 18:54:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em> there are other means that could be used to distinguish words, but they
    are not the means normally used in our writing system for more than a thousand
    years;</em>\r\n\r\nEvenAthousandYearsOfAcculturationDoesn'tQualifyAsystemAsInherentlyMostReadable.\r\nItIsAmistakeToAssociateBiologicalMechanismSoDirectlyWithCulturalConvention.\r\nCertainlyTheUnbeatenPathIsHarderToWalk,ButThereAreManyWaysToMakeApath.\r\nHowWeWalkApathTellsUsSomethingOfWalking,AndMayHelpUsToWalkThatPathBetter,ButTellsUsLittleOfHowToChangeThePath--AndPathsMustChangeAsTheGroundShiftsBeneathUs.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-09 19:42:20'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John, yes, I didn't mean that features need to fall exactly on a rigid grid.
    The \"lines\" on the grid are rather fuzzy bands. Frequency ranges might be more
    accurate. The important thing for my model is that there are expected regularities
    of where sub-letter features fall within a word and on the page. And the eye and
    brain have learned to spot and slot those features into mental matrices for words.
    \r\n\r\nThe nature of a \"model\" such as I have suggested is that it is intended
    to have key structural features similar the reality of what is going on, and not
    that it is an actual accurate description. \r\n\r\nNick, I don't see the relevance
    of the conventionality of writing; it's not an issue. There is no question but
    that shapes of the letters are conventional, not given by nature. The question
    is how our brain visually and cognitively processes these conventional signs in
    order to identify words and get meaning. What it can do more slowly and quickly
    can, I think, be a clue to what is going on mentally. "
  created: '2008-12-09 20:04:03'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "ItIsAmistakeToAssociateBiologicalMechanismSoDirectlyWithCulturalConvention.\r\n\r\nNick,
    experience with words causes a localizable area of the cerebral cortex to emerge
    as a Visual Word Form Area, so it's not just a matter of associating a biological
    mechanism too closely with a cultural convention. Moreover, the space between
    words allows the visual cortex to open up discrete 'object files' for what I've
    been referring to as bounded maps on the basis of information from parafoveal
    preview. This indexing of what is to come in the visual stream is the basis for
    the further processing that happens in foveal vision during a fixation, setting
    the bounds for the detailed featural or role-unit indexing that happens there."
  created: '2008-12-09 20:42:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...experience with words causes a localizable area of the cerebral cortex
    to emerge as a Visual Word Form Area... the space between words allows the visual
    cortex to open up discrete \u2019object files\u2019...</em>\r\n\r\nThisTooActivatesTheVisualWordFormArea,Isurmise,WithoutDiscrete\"ObjectFiles\".\r\nYouAreDeducingFromOurCulturalConventionForVisualWords--DiscreteSpacing--ThatThisIsHowTheBrainWorks,AndThatAnythingElseBiologicallyCompromisesReadability."
  created: '2008-12-09 21:40:46'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick, are you trying to argue that the brain can adapt to any reading convention
    equally well, with equal reading speed and comfort? That it's only a matter of
    training?\r\n\r\nI think that's false, and evidence is in the regularity of all
    scripts in all languages intended for extended reading. For example, even color
    seems to be an ideal for all text faces, whether Latin, Chinese, Hebrew or whatever.
    Is that an accident? I think not. "
  created: '2008-12-09 21:55:48'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Nick, why did space between words become part of \u2018the grammer of legibility\u2019
    as Malcom B. Parkes claims in <em>Pause and Effect: An Introduction to the History
    of Punctuation</em>, and facilitate the rise of silent reading as Paul Saenger
    narrates in <em>Space Between Words</em> if as culturally evolved convention it
    didn't have some adaptive excellance in functional-anatomical terms that would
    allow it to persist."
  created: '2008-12-09 22:53:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick, conventions develop for reasons. Some of these reasons may be cultural
    or aesthetic, but many of them are functional: people adopt things that work.
    I am certainly not identifying cultural convention with biological mechanisms,
    as you imply; I am saying that a mechanism for visually distinguishing words based
    upon relative proximity and distance seems to have been a really good idea. It
    is not a 'cultural' convention; at the least, it is begging the question to call
    it such. It is not something that was rooted in our culture or expressive of some
    extragraphic cultural value. It was an innovation at a particular place and time
    that very quickly became widely adopted and became the standard convention, I
    believe, because of its usefulness. You seem to be implying that conventions are
    functionally interchangeable, i.e. that a different word-distinguishing mechanism
    would be just as good from a readability perspective. But I indicated a specific
    reason why changing weight for different words would be problematic for readability,
    since we have strong evidence that different types have different spatial frequencies
    and readers need to adjust for these.\r\n\r\n[By the way, the fact that human
    beings <em>can</em> adjust for different spatial frequencies, and hence can read
    across a wide range of weights, widths and stroke modulations, is something that
    can be added to the portmanteau of [[readerability]].]"
  created: '2008-12-10 00:05:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Nick, are you trying to argue that the brain can adapt to any reading
    convention equally well, with equal reading speed and comfort? That it\u2019s
    only a matter of training?</em>\r\n\r\nNo, I'm saying how can you know it can't?\r\nAnd
    empirically?\r\nI'm pointing out the flaws in making deductions about how reading
    works based on RSVP testing of 17-25 year-old English speakers in the 21st century.\r\nAs
    for even color, surely text without spaces has more even color?\r\n\r\n<em>...if
    as culturally evolved convention it didn\u2019t have some adaptive excellance
    in functional-anatomical terms that would allow it to persist.</em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    it seems likely that's true. But to then deduce that the part of the brain which
    lights up when it sees words is responding to \"discrete object files\" is a non
    sequitur. There are many ways that the brain can isolate words from letter streams,
    as I showed a few posts ago.\r\n\r\nWord-as-discrete-object is a calculated intellectual
    construct dependent on memory, not seen.\r\nLetters and ligatures are no doubt
    seen as discrete objects, but it's not logical to argue that a collection of non-contiguous,
    non-overlapping things are seen as a singular item. \r\n"
  created: '2008-12-10 00:39:26'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Word-as-discrete-object is a calculated intellectual construct dependent
    on memory, not seen. \r\n\r\nI think printed-or-written-word-as-discrete-object-like-entity
    is an ordinary, describable, everyday, lived-experiential fact. I hope eventually
    to be able to show that it's also a scientifically fertile and viable perceptual-psychophysically
    safe a priori."
  created: '2008-12-10 01:32:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">how can you know it can\u2019t?\r\n\r\n\"Know\" is a very strong word that.
    I'd say I hypothesize for good reasons. I can easily make a page extremely hard
    to read by violating rules that are followed by every script. Eg., they are all
    written in straight lines, and generally with uniform spaces between lines, also
    uniformity as far as spacing of units within a line. The fact of similarities
    from Chinese to Hebrew to Latin script writing lends plausibility to a common
    biological influence. "
  created: '2008-12-10 03:38:17'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Bill said: \"even color seems to be an ideal for all text faces, whether
    Latin, Chinese, Hebrew or whatever.even color seems to be an ideal for all text
    faces, whether Latin, Chinese, Hebrew or whatever.\"\r\n\r\nI have seen a ton
    of scripts that are new to me here at Reading and the one thing that struck me
    is how uneven the color of most scripts seems to be. Not least calligraphic Arabic.
    Japanese too looks a great deal like raisin bread. This is why I don't buy the
    idea that page wide evenness is a universal value. But on the individual glyph
    level ( assuming your script uses that structure - it may not) I think a certain
    common urge to harmony can be seen. And on the page too there can be more than
    one kind of harmony like there is more than one system of notes in music. \r\n\r\nSo
    put a bit more simply, I think it's richer and more complicated situation than
    the notion of even color can support. \r\n\r\nAlso, my respect for the portmanteau
    grows."
  created: '2008-12-10 20:29:33'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>Letters and ligatures are no doubt seen as discrete objects, but
    it\u2019s not logical to argue that a collection of non-contiguous, non-overlapping
    things are seen as a singular item.</em>\r\n\r\nLet's back up a bit here. The
    conventional word space <em>is</em> a visualisation of the word, a mechanism that
    indeed allows us to <em>see</em> \u2018a collection of non-contiguous, non-overlapping
    things\u2019 as a unit based upon proximity of those things within the unit and
    relative distance from other collections. This isn't in any sense \u2018not logical\u2019.
    A \u2018collection\u2019 is a singular noun: your own term implies unitisation
    of multiple things grouped together.\r\n\r\nWe have strong evidence that the length
    of words perceived in the parafovaea influences saccade distance, so that is one
    obvious way in which the visualisation of words, as separated by spaces, contributes
    to how we read. But that is a discreet reading phenomenon from word recognition,
    which is demonstrable by the fact the saccade distances remain predictable whether
    the words ane os arn nct rcaclahlc. What remains at issue is the cognitive process
    by which either word shape, or sub-word shapes other than individual letters,
    contribute to word recognition. Denis Pelli's study indicates a quantifiable contribution
    of word shape to reading speed, which is considerably smaller than the contribution
    of letters (as I would expect) but still significant.\r\n\r\nWhat I understand
    Peter and Bill to be questioning is <em>how</em> the contribution of the letters
    takes place, positing that familiar patterns of proximal shapes may be recognised
    as units between letter and word. This isn't unreasonable, and certainly not illogical,
    since we know that individual letters are recognisable if key features remain
    identifiable even if the rest of the letter is degraded, <em>and these features
    are not necessarily contiguous.</em> I other words, we already know that \u2018non-contiguous
    non-overlapping things\u2019 can be recognised as \u2018singular items\u2019 --
    in this case letters --, so it isn't unreasonable to posit that e.g. a pair of
    letters might be recognised in a similar way.\r\n\r\n[None of this should be taken
    to imply that I accept the models that Peter and Bill put forward as true. Only
    that I don't think they are illogical.]"
  created: '2008-12-10 21:41:47'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Eben, I think calligraphy in is not such a good comparison, unless it is
    a formal hand. The formal scribal hands, intended for extended reading, are more
    regular than other hand writing. I don't know about Arabic, but I would bet that
    anything for extended text would be much more regular than when the purposes are
    more decorative. And type is generally more even than hand writing, because of
    the greater ability to adjust the weights of strokes and joins. \r\n\r\nJapanese
    is a special case because they regularly mix more than one script. I think I remember
    someone writing here on Typophile that the different scripts are deliberately
    differentiated, so that the reader can immediately recognize which script is being
    used, and interpret it accordingly. So it is an interesting case, and I don't
    know enough to say anything about it. Perhaps if there are any Japanese graphic
    designers they could tell us about issues of color and mixing scripts. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-10 22:29:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>I don\u2019t know about Arabic, but I would bet that anything for
    extended text would be much more regular than when the purposes are more decorative.</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    standard formal literary hand for most Arabic text, and the model for Arabic text
    typography no matter how debased, is the <em>naskh</em> style. Like all the classical
    styles, naskh is rule-based and the proportions of letters are strictly defined
    relative to the pen width (which makes the idea of a bold or light naskh meaningless:
    if you change the weight to size proportions of the letters you no longer have
    naskh). But the nature of the rules are such as to allow considerable variation
    in performance through the use of discretionary alternate forms, elongations,
    etc., as the rules permit. Complexity gives the illusion of freedom, but once
    one starts analysing what is happening at the level of letters and their connections,
    the rules become apparent.\r\n\r\nAs announced at TypeCon, Brill Academic will
    be publishing Tom Milo's <em>Grammar of the Arabic Naskh Script,</em> which describes
    the rules of the naskh style in terms of competence and performance."
  created: '2008-12-10 22:47:35'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "John Hudson: \u201CNone of this should be taken to imply that I accept the
    models that Peter and Bill put forward as true.\u201D\r\n\r\n[reacting to your
    \u201Cput forward as true\u201D]\r\n\r\nLudwig Wittgenstein / <em>Vermischte Bemerkungen</em>:
    \u201CDas eigentliche Verdienst eines Kopernikus oder Darwin war nicht die Entdeckung
    einer wahren Theorie, sondern eines fruchtbaren neuen Aspekts.\u201D [ What a
    Copernicus or a Darwin really achieved was not the discovery of a true theory,
    but of a fertile point of view. ]\r\n\r\nJohn: \u201C[\u2026] positing that familiar
    patterns of proximal shapes may be recognised as units between letter and word[\u2026]\u201D\r\n\r\n[not
    sure if I can identify with that]\r\n\r\nWhat I'm positing is that, when it comes
    to familiar words, recognition for skilled readers occurs directly from role-units
    and role-unit evoked forms, \u201C<em>without mediation through [internal] letter
    representations</em>.\u201D [ Paller & Gross / 1998 ] Letters contribute by supplying
    the role units (bowls and stems) and the role-unit evoked forms (counters). I
    think what Bill and I are proposing is that recognition doesn't happen through
    a complex combinatorial arithmatic that proceeds in heirarchical steps from simple
    features to entire words. Recognition happens simply and directly on the basis
    of a read-out of identity, local combination and location at the role-unit level.
    Something like the combinatorial arithmatic may happen at various levels when
    we are learning to read, encounter unfamiliar words or words in unfamiliar scripts,
    but not in what I'm calling the 'rapid automatic visual word-form resolution'
    that characterizes the immersive reading of motivated fluent readers.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    this doesn't feel like a fertile point of view to those who don't already share
    it, or can't readily assimilate the terms."
  created: '2008-12-10 23:59:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Copernicus and Darwin were so fertile because they had theories that did
    capture fundamental truths, even if there weren't totally correct. Wittgenstein
    doesn't get it right, as usual. \r\n\r\nI'm not ready to declare Peter to be Copernicus,
    but if he's right, and I suspect he is, it is because he is on to something fundamental
    about reading. \r\n\r\nWhat that something is, as Peter noted to me recently using
    a phrase in yet another paper, is that visual processing of words does not stop
    with identification of letters. In the slot processing view, once letters are
    identified visually, everything else is cognitive. There is a shift to abstract
    units, the letters, and these are used in some kind of combinatorial look-up process.
    But the fact that computers are good at spell-check in this way doesn't mean that
    our brains are. \r\n\r\nIn fact almost all of us are pretty pathetic when it comes
    to arithmetic, compared to a computer. And I have no problem reading all kinds
    of words that I would probably misspell, as I am a poor speller. All of which
    says to me it is likely that something different is going on in the brain, more
    like the matrix resonance model I explained above. In this, visual processing
    is not restricted to identifying letters, but a whole visual word pattern of sub-letter
    units is represented in a matrix. And then that matrix paints our whole visual
    word memory bank, and when something resonates, bingo, the meaning attached is
    sent on to further cognition. \r\n\r\nTo me the fact that we are bad at arithmetic
    compared to a computer, and great at pattern recognition compared to a computer,
    means that something significantly different is going on in my head from the way
    the computer I'm typing on now is programmed.  "
  created: '2008-12-11 03:06:27'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "The paper I quoted is \"Cracking the Orthographic code: An introduction,\"
    by Jonathan Grainger. In it Grainger writes: \u201C Individual words are undeniably
    the building blocks of the reading process, <em>and a word is primarily an orthographic
    object</em> [...] [my emphasis], and later, \"[\u2026] the central idea here is
    that there is a pre-emption of visual object processing mechanisms during the
    process of learning to read.\" That is, visual processing gets us to spellings,
    and then one of various complex and computationally heavy post-perceptual computational
    schemes take over.\r\n\r\nIt's the pre-emption of visual processing idea that's
    got me up in arms.\r\n\r\nThe word-as-primarily-an-orthographic-object idea is
    in stark contrast to the Noordzij notion of the word as primarily a visual rhythmic
    object constituted by the whites of the word and the black of the letters. In
    the scheme Bill and I are proposing, processing can 'stop with' information at
    the role-unit (black) and evoked form (white) level."
  created: '2008-12-11 04:25:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Peter: <em>What I\u2019m positing is that, when it comes to familiar words,
    recognition for skilled readers occurs directly from role-units and role-unit
    evoked forms, \u201Cwithout mediation through [internal] letter representations.\u201D
    [ Paller & Gross / 1998 ] Letters contribute by supplying the role units (bowls
    and stems) and the role-unit evoked forms (counters).</em>\r\n\r\nThat's pretty
    much exactly what I meant by 'familiar patterns of proximal shapes may be recognised
    as units between letter and word'. But you express it much more precisely. Thank
    you."
  created: '2008-12-11 07:00:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">processing can \u2019stop with\u2019 information at the role-unit (black)
    and evoked form (white) level.\r\n\r\nI think it's important to add that the information
    about letter parts or aspects also includes their relative location within the
    whole word. That's what the model of the 'matrix' is supposed to express: the
    location in the matrix would correspond to relative position in the visual representation
    of the word. \r\n"
  created: '2008-12-11 12:50:03'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Thanks John. It's important that what we're proposing here be clear and not
    confused with conventional word-shape views.\r\n\r\nBill, I think that's right.
    The information that needs to be compiled includes information about relative
    location within the whole word or bounded map. Also included is 'local combination'
    detection. This involves where, on the whole word template or map, joins and vertices
    sit. (The latter qualification might make it seem as if in my scheme letter identity
    is coded after all. But I don't think that's necessarily implied)"
  created: '2008-12-11 14:47:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I wonder what Mr William of Occam would have to say about all this?\r\n\r\nIt
    seems to me that we have a number of reasonable hypotheses about what might happen
    during reading, any or a mix of which might well be true, but I'm not sure if
    any of them are <em>necessary.</em>"
  created: '2008-12-12 02:11:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Occam's principle only applies if you can't distinguish between alternative
    hypotheses by experiment. And even then its importance is debatable. \r\n\r\nHere
    I am suggesting experiments whose results will, I think, seriously question the
    slot processing view, and follow from the matrix resonance model. Hence Occam
    is irrelevant.\r\n\r\nAs to what is necessary, no hypothesis is necessary. As
    Bertrand Russell said about the \"economy of thought\" view of science (Ernst
    Mach): \"The greatest economy of thought is not to think.\"\r\n\r\nBut if you
    want to learn, then developing alternative hypotheses and testing them against
    one another has proven extremely helpful in advancing our understanding of the
    world and ourselves.  \r\n  "
  created: '2008-12-12 04:10:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I was responding to Peter's use of the word 'need': <em>The information that
    needs to be compiled includes information about relative location within the whole
    word or bounded map.</em> To be fair, though, his comment should be read as presuming
    the validity of your hypothesis and not, as it first struck me, as begging the
    question.\r\n\r\nThis is a very long thread, and I did not read all of the middle
    section. Can you direct me to the post that outlines your proposed experiment(s)?"
  created: '2008-12-12 06:07:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John, in a long post on Nov 15 I lay out the matrix resonance model; it is
    a model mechanism for the kind of visual processing that Peter has been arguing
    for. On Nov 16 and 17 I describe the experiments. On Nov 24 I reply to Denis Pelli.
    On Nov 26 is my rebuttal to his reply. On Nov 30 I propose some additional experiments.
    \r\n\r\nAll of these are alas very long posts, but if you print them out the will
    be easier to read. Of course that's an indication that there's more to reading
    than slot processing of letters :) \r\n\r\nHmmm. That was a joke, but it just
    occurred to me that it would be interesting to test printed material of the same
    coarse dpi as the screen, and see if, eg ability to proof read and the reported
    reading comfort deteriorate the same as they do on screen. This would get at whether
    the back-lighting is a problem with screen text, or it's mainly the resolution
    issue. Not a test of orthographic processing vs gestalt processing, but could
    be revealing.  "
  created: '2008-12-12 15:36:22'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "<em>it would be interesting to test printed material of the same coarse dpi
    as the screen, and see if, eg ability to proof read and the reported reading comfort
    deteriorate the same as they do on screen. This would get at whether the back-lighting
    is a problem with screen text, or it\u2019s mainly the resolution issue.</em>\r\n\r\nMy
    guess is that resolution is the primary problem and not the backlight. To finish
    the test design you would want printed copy at high and low resolution and backlit
    text at high and low resolution. To get high resolution backlit text, you can
    print to transparency material. When you put transparencies onto a white screen,
    the text looks amazing. So very crisp. Interestingly, you get color fringing effects
    created by the RGB subpixel structure on the screen.\r\n\r\nI would love to see
    this study done as it is an interesting question, but don\u2019t have the time
    to do it myself right now. If there is a student interested in taking this up
    as a project, I would be happy to collaborate with them. I think we have code
    around here for printing text at lower resolution than the printer\u2019s native
    resolution. Relatedly, there was an article in the October issue of Human Factors
    on optimal text versus background color combinations. I haven\u2019t read it yet.\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-12 21:02:56'
date: '2008-10-23 17:00:36'
node_type: forum
title: Legibility/Aesthetics - Improving the reader experience.

---
