---
author:
  name: Jesse Bennett-Chamberlain
  picture: 110114
body: "Hey guys, \r\nIt's been awhile since I've created a logo, and have been stuck
  on this one for my church. The logo on the left is our current logo which I did
  around 5 or 6 years ago. The 2 on the right are a couple of possibilities that I'm
  working on. \r\n\r\nThe goal of the logo is to signify a bit of a fresh start, and
  attempt to make the logo / church look a little more approachable and friendly.
  \r\n\r\nIs it working? Too clich\xE9? Any suggestions?\r\n\r\nThanks!\r\nJesse"
comments:
- author:
    name: sch2525
    picture: 112170
  body: I like the top right one. Although I can't really speak to the technical stuff
    (i.e. kerning, tracking, etc.) too much, I think the k-e need to be a tad tighter.
    The type and the mark look very cohesive otherwise.
  created: '2008-10-24 17:49:19'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "Is this a map? And the dot is the church's location on the road? If not,
    I don't get the dot and the dot doesn't work too well, for me.\r\n\r\nSharon"
  created: '2008-10-24 20:16:39'
- author:
    name: Jesse Bennett-Chamberlain
    picture: 110114
  body: "Thanks for the feedback guys... \r\n\r\nNo... it's not a map Sharon, but
    I can see how it looks like one now. It's an attempt at mixing a lake / mountain
    landscape image with a person celebrating. I suppose that it still needs some
    work though :)\r\n\r\nAny other thoughts?"
  created: '2008-10-24 20:50:07'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: Jesse, I like it. I would agree on the upper right version. Having done a
    lot of church-related design, I picked up on the figure. It has a nice feel. I'm
    not totally sold on the choice of typeface though, and I'm not sure why. I do
    think it's an improvement for sure.
  created: '2008-10-24 22:04:12'
- author:
    name: Jonathan Clede
    picture: 110376
  body: "I saw the landscape/person immediately, before I read your explanation.\r\n\r\nThe
    right-hand version is better because it looks like it's moving to the right (i.e.
    forward)."
  created: '2008-10-24 23:35:20'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "Rounded couple reminds me of olympics. Right most column remind me of a swimmer.
    I wouldn't relate this logo with church even though it's a very nice and eye pleasing
    logo. It's just not the right one to me.\r\n\r\nApproachable? Friendly? How about
    open hands? Maybe with a clover it's in nature surroundings. Or a leaf or something.
    But yes. It won't be logo evolution. More like a revolution.\r\n\r\nAnyway. To
    me it doesn't resemble anything to what it represents. Even worse. It looks like
    it's something completely different.\r\n___________\r\n<em>Robert Koritnik</em>"
  created: '2008-10-26 19:29:12'
- author:
    name: sch2525
    picture: 112170
  body: "I disagree with litera. It doesn't have to resemble what it represents at
    all. I saw the landscape/person before I read the post too. Even though it didn't
    say \"churh\" to me right away, once I found out that the logo was for a church,
    I saw a cross and a dove (and I'm not religious, so I don't tend to notice things
    like that often).\r\n\r\nI think it's a fresh departure from the \"traditional\"
    church \"logos.\""
  created: '2008-10-27 13:55:46'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I think this is a nice redesign. I agree that the rightward movement of the
    figure in the right column is more pleasing, though you do complicate the reading
    of it as the features are inverted from how they appear in the name. Any chance
    you could rename the place \"Mountlake\"? ;-)\r\n\r\nThe typefaces may be a touch
    sterile but even so I think you have the welcoming mood you're looking for.\r\n\r\nThe
    rounded horizontal rectangle called to my mind a TV screen, but that was sixth-
    or seventh-impression."
  created: '2008-10-27 16:43:58'
- author:
    name: Jesse Bennett-Chamberlain
    picture: 110114
  body: "Very good feedback so far guys... thank you very much. After giving it a
    couple of days, I'm not quite settled on the design either... and think it needs
    to be a bit simpler to work. \r\n\r\nI'll post back when I come up with something
    else. \r\n\r\nThanks again, \r\nJesse"
  created: '2008-10-27 22:45:07'
- author:
    name: Jesse Bennett-Chamberlain
    picture: 110114
  body: "I wanted to try something a little more simplistic. I know leaves are somewhat
    cliche in the world of logos right now, but for a local church that's not really
    exposed to trends, I think it might be ok. \r\n\r\nAny thoughts on this direction?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture964_5687.png]\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-28 15:50:51'
- author:
    name: jakes
    picture: 116060
  body: I like this version much better. The icon kind of looks like between a leaves
    & a candle flame...which is cool. Your first versions with a cross & a dot are
    so redundant imo.
  created: '2008-10-28 16:11:29'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "It's handsome and likeable, though it looks a bit like an eco renovation
    of a natural-gas utility. Could something be done with the gradient to reduce
    the gas-flame impression?\r\n\r\nThe almost-but-not-quite alignment of the stem
    and the left stroke of u is irksome."
  created: '2008-10-28 17:02:41'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "Oh yes. Candle/leave. Eliason makes good comment on departing too from gas
    companies, but otherwise yes. This looks much better and goes better with a church.\r\n___________\r\n<em>Robert
    Koritnik</em>"
  created: '2008-10-29 07:53:42'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: I like this direction even better. I would agree on the natural gas reference,
    although I didn't see it at first. I saw a combination of a leaf and a flame.
    Love the choice of Omnes too. Maybe if the leaf had some perspective or angle
    to it? Nice work.
  created: '2008-10-29 13:16:46'
- author:
    name: Chris Kelly
  body: the leaf/flame feels right, it feel like a much more "together" logo, it makes
    the others seem more suited for a resort of some kind..or is that just me? The
    top right logo form the original batch is also very good though.
  created: '2008-10-29 13:21:09'
- author:
    name: innovati
    picture: 114494
  body: "I feel that the original midle column was the one that struck me the most.
    \ Blame the directionality on my laft-handedness but I felt that the action pointed
    towards the right (more dynamic or so I'm told) is better, but the question is,
    which is more important for a 'worship centre', movement and advancing, or meditation
    and slowing down?  I feel strong arguments could be made for both, but you have
    to admit it's far less common to see a left-leaning logo so it might stand out
    in the mind better.\r\n\r\nI never understood the whole 'worship centre' thing.
    \ In my experience it differs from a church because there isn't 'crowd surfing'
    or 'sprinting up and down the aisles' in church.  Oh that was one scary experience
    having to dodge sprinters just to get a seat.\r\n\r\nI am somewhat turned off
    by the latest logo because to me, I see a tree, a flame and then the first combination
    that pops into my head is: Natural Gas / Environmental\r\n\r\nAlso, I feel that
    the type choice (please don't lynch me) in the first one will last longer than
    in the latest one.  I feel that the latest one has a shorter lifespan and will
    feel 'dated' longer.\r\n\r\nI hope you will continue to develop the original middle
    column idea and see where that leads you as you explore other options too."
  created: '2008-10-30 05:42:37'
- author:
    name: Jesse Bennett-Chamberlain
    picture: 110114
  body: "Thanks for all the feedback guys, you've been very very helpful. I think
    I'm going to refine each of these options a tad more and see if I can make them
    a little more solid. \r\n\r\nI came up with another quick option after seeing
    an image on istock that I thought was interesting. I'd love to hear some feedback
    on it.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/20081030-tmnnt3auseeiti56uig3acuduw_4333.png]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/20081030-rfw417rbnas7tk21xmmxc5iyhy_6216.png]"
  created: '2008-10-30 15:06:52'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Too storybookish; your previous ideas have more potential in my opinion.
  created: '2008-10-30 15:35:28'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "I saw leaf and flame immediately and really liked that direction. It's an
    attractive symbol for a Christian church. \r\n\r\nSharon"
  created: '2008-10-30 17:25:16'
- author:
    name: sch2525
    picture: 112170
  body: "Hey Jesse, I'm a fan of the leaf/flame mark, as well. But a couple things
    to consider: how will it look at small sizes and in b/w? As it, you might lose
    the step/wick and would look like a teardrop at small sizes.\r\n\r\nThe kid the
    with ladder looks too complicated - what is he holding? and in b/w, it looks like
    he's climbing to clean some specs off the wall. Good idea, but not the most practical
    for this use, in my opinion at least.\r\n\r\n-Scott"
  created: '2008-10-30 17:48:45'
- author:
    name: nvhladek
    picture: 112094
  body: "The leaf/flame was striking. I think you've got it. Unless you don't think
    you do, of course. It's always refreshing when you don't have to have a cross
    in a church logo. \r\n\r\n--\r\nNick Hladek"
  created: '2008-10-30 22:43:19'
- author:
    name: bpotstra
    picture: 112489
  body: "Hello, \r\n\r\nI'm the other designer working with Jesse on this seemingly
    impossible church logo. Here's yet another concept we've drawn up...thoughts?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_11_5577.png]"
  created: '2008-10-31 01:48:10'
- author:
    name: innovati
    picture: 114494
  body: "that's a nice one too, and it works in 1 colour!\r\n\r\nI think it's kind
    of got that 50's googie feel to it to (a good thing, it's casual and informal).\r\n\r\nWhat
    I do wonder though, is if you are using 4 elements to construct the cross, what
    do the four stand for?  I recall seeing this logo from the Christian Missionary
    Alliance, where each element represents one of their core values as a denomination.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/emblem30_5816.png]\r\n\r\nI
    don't want to assume your Worship Centre is of pentecostal affiliation, but is
    there a way that your design could (even if not in a way as obvious as the CMA)
    reference the number of key points or a significant number just to be consistent.\r\n\r\nFour
    makes me think of the four corners of the earth, that's the first thing that pops
    into my head, and while looking at your logo, I do think that (I know I'm weird
    eh?)\r\n\r\nHope this provides some insight and some feedback, keep up the great
    work!"
  created: '2008-10-31 06:47:29'
- author:
    name: bpotstra
    picture: 112489
  body: "Thanks for the feedback!\r\n\r\nInnovati, you're correct to think of the
    'four corners' analogy here, that was my thinking as well when designing the logo.
    Also that the four corners come together to form the church, as represented by
    the cross. \r\n\r\nAt first I didn't want to use a cross in the logo because it
    could be a bit clich\xE9. Now though, we've decided that its a perfectly good
    method of representing the church, and have figured out a way to 'freshen up'
    the image. \r\n\r\nI continued sketching this idea out, and here is the progress...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sketch_4967.png]"
  created: '2008-10-31 19:36:34'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: The solid color panes with white lines between (from 30.Oct post) can better
    suggest mosaics or leaded stained glass - I prefer them to these latest contourless
    gradient rectangles.
  created: '2008-10-31 21:16:18'
- author:
    name: innovati
    picture: 114494
  body: "agreed.  All logos should work in 1 colour, and the gradient ones don't allow
    for that.  Sure the logo can be spiced up to suit the occasion, but I feel that
    as a mark the previous incarnation with the separation lines worked better.\r\n\r\nI
    like the concept, and to address your fear of the clich\xE9, I don't think in
    this case the cross is being used out-of-context or in a clic\xE9 way.\r\n\r\nThe
    cross will always remain relevant, but where it most clich\xE9 is when designers
    attempt to integrate it into a place where it doesn't belong, at any cost. We've
    all seen crosses replace 't's in words that don't need it, or incredibly cross-suggestive
    layouts where it doesn't help the content.\r\n\r\nWhat you've done, create a cross
    through the joining of independent elements, or creating a cross-shaped-hole inbetween
    the rectangles so me is a first, you've surely found a new way to show the same
    image.  Far from clich\xE9 in my eyes.\r\n\r\nI think the proportions could use
    a slight amount of tweaking, but I have nothing to suggest other than the feeling
    that it's not 100% done yet (sorry I can't be of more help)\r\n\r\nKeep working
    on it, I'll stick around to give my 2\xA2 as long as it's helpful!"
  created: '2008-11-01 05:33:30'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "I favor the leaf/flame concept. This last idea comes off as just a bit too
    generically Christian for me.\r\n\r\npenn"
  created: '2008-11-01 05:34:37'
- author:
    name: Jesse Bennett-Chamberlain
    picture: 110114
  body: "Thanks for all the feedback so far everyone. It's been very much appreciated.
    I have another concept that I'd like to float past you for feedback. Thoughts?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture1055_3950.png]"
  created: '2008-11-12 21:57:12'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: 'Ladder idea: very nicely done, but not for this "client" IMO. Hands: no.
    I liked the leaf direction. But I have to say I really like the overlapping gradients.
    I prefer the ones without the white cross in the center, where it''s more subtle.
    I could see that being very cool as signage, with overlappying pieces of amber
    or colored glass. Obviously the cross is central to the church, and this presents
    it in a unique way. FWIW, I''m in the buckle of the bible belt, and have seen
    a lot of church-related design.'
  created: '2008-11-12 22:07:36'
- author:
    name: TypoJunkie
    picture: 112264
  body: "Nice logos guys!\r\n\r\nI think the leaf/flame works best, once you move
    away from gas companies; I also like the last one: the coming together to form
    a cross seems like a church-y thing to go with. And the moving man/mountain-lake
    one works as well, I think.\r\n\r\nThe ladder one looks like a movie company (I
    can't imagine why\u2026); it just doesn't say \"church\" in my opinion; the one
    with the hands is WAY too obvious, so I'd discard it.\r\n\r\nOverall, I think
    you've done a great job! Good stuff!"
  created: '2008-11-13 20:31:48'
- author:
    name: Jesse Bennett-Chamberlain
    picture: 110114
  body: "Thanks again for all your advice everyone... it's be super helpful. \r\n\r\nIt's
    amazing what a day or two will do to change your perspective on a logo. I was
    loving the hands / dove thing when working on it, but now think it looks ridiculous.
    \r\n\r\nHere's my latest concept. Hopefully I'll still like it in a couple of
    days from now :)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_4819.jpg]"
  created: '2008-11-14 00:54:15'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "I usually stay away from church threads and logos ... but there's some really
    nice ideas in what you've presented.\r\n\r\nwell done.\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic
    Design Melbourne</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.bicyclefilmfestival.com.au\">Bicycle
    Film Festival</a>\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-14 01:43:48'
- author:
    name: Jesse Bennett-Chamberlain
    picture: 110114
  body: "Thanks Paul!\r\n\r\nHere's the last concept applied to different internal
    ministries... \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture1073_4125.png]"
  created: '2008-11-14 17:38:20'
- author:
    name: jakes
    picture: 116060
  body: definitly loving the latest version...nice! One minor comment regarding the
    hand/dove symbol, I would make it a bit rounder at the tip of the fingers/wing
    otherwise it might looks like a claw.
  created: '2008-11-14 17:46:42'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "This is working well. \r\nThe \"global missions\" sphere looks too much like
    the AT&T logo to me - would that be an issue in Canada?"
  created: '2008-11-14 18:09:37'
- author:
    name: innovati
    picture: 114494
  body: "@ eliason:  well, here in Canada the most we see of AT&T is on american TV
    networks or ads on the internet.  Still a widely recognizable mark, it's certainly
    the first thing I thought of, even before reading this.\r\n\r\n@ all:  I really
    like this solution too, because it's scalable and it really combines the imagery
    well.\r\n\r\nGreat work!"
  created: '2008-11-15 00:22:35'
- author:
    name: Jesse Bennett-Chamberlain
    picture: 110114
  body: "Good call on \"the claw\" Jakes... I'll work on making that a bit more friendly
    looking. :)\r\n\r\nAgreed on the AT&T logo as well. Definitely too close. \r\n\r\nI'm
    going to make some more refinements on this early next week, and keep you posted.
    \r\n\r\nThanks again for the help!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-15 02:43:36'
- author:
    name: michaelbrowers
    picture: 111225
  body: "Jesse,\r\n\r\nA number of the logo concepts have potential. It seems like
    a direction is evolving for this logo project, so I will wait to comment until
    your next round of refinements.\r\n\r\nHas Lakemount Worship Center seen, or commented,
    on any of the concepts? If so, what has their feedback been so far.\r\n\r\nNice
    work. It is has been enjoyable to watch the process so far.\r\n\r\n-----------------------\r\nMichael
    Browers\r\nwww.michaelbrowers.com"
  created: '2008-11-16 00:42:58'
- author:
    name: cslem1
  body: "I'm loving the latest one. It seems like it represents a church the best,
    but brings in a quality feel with the play of images there. And I love the variations
    for the different sections. You have a great logo that is both witty, and has
    quality and versatility. What more could you ask for?\r\n\r\nbut if your track
    record is like it has been with creating better logos each time...I'd like to
    see if you can beat this one!\r\n\r\ncourtney"
  created: '2008-11-16 01:52:35'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'Love the hand/dove. '
  created: '2008-11-18 20:48:39'
- author:
    name: Jesse Bennett-Chamberlain
    picture: 110114
  body: "Here's an attempt to make the hand not look so scary, and bring a bit more
    warmth to it. Once I changed the icon, Gotham was looking a little too stiff for
    it, so I've paired it with Omnes instead. Any other suggestions would be much
    appreciated!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture1115_5360.png]"
  created: '2008-11-19 21:35:41'
- author:
    name: Jesse Bennett-Chamberlain
    picture: 110114
  body: "Some more I just came up with for different ministry options... \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/20081119-fpbanafniagfdj3frhp5dxtsh3_5700.png]"
  created: '2008-11-19 22:24:25'
- author:
    name: robbiefa
    picture: 113487
  body: "The gray is a little strong but I have to say I really like it! \r\n\r\nGreat
    work!"
  created: '2008-11-19 23:30:30'
- author:
    name: michaelbrowers
    picture: 111225
  body: "Excellent work. The various ministry options create a dynamic logo system
    or Lakemount to use in different areas. My only recommendation is that the leaf
    in the worship center   option and the flame in the prayer ministry option might
    be shaped to similarly. \r\n\r\n-----------------------\r\nMichael Browers\r\nwww.michaelbrowers.com"
  created: '2008-11-20 00:27:47'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "Nice. Good dynamics to the mark.\r\n\r\npenn"
  created: '2008-11-20 01:34:51'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "I liked the non-outlined version better, because it looked more refined.\r\n___________\r\n<em>Robert
    Koritnik</em>"
  created: '2008-11-20 08:07:33'
- author:
    name: rlynch
  body: "Great progression. Nice work!\r\n\r\nRoss"
  created: '2008-11-20 12:26:52'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>I liked the non-outlined version better, because it looked more refined.</em>\r\n\r\nFWIW,
    I had this same reaction. The outline is overbearing relative to the words to
    my eyes; it and the misregistration makes it look a bit childish, like the logo
    for a Montessori school. "
  created: '2008-11-20 14:03:57'
- author:
    name: Jesse Bennett-Chamberlain
    picture: 110114
  body: "Here's the two side by side. I've refined the non-outlined one in hopes that
    it doesn't look too much like a claw. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lakemount_logo_6119.png]"
  created: '2008-11-20 15:30:39'
- author:
    name: Mr Austin
    picture: 116267
  body: What is the typeface in the 'Let's Connect' logo?
  created: '2008-11-20 15:54:46'
- author:
    name: Jesse Bennett-Chamberlain
    picture: 110114
  body: Archer italic
  created: '2008-11-20 16:56:50'
- author:
    name: jakes
    picture: 116060
  body: I like both versions. The one without the outline has a more contemporary
    feel to it. The outline one definitely works better on a big signage though.
  created: '2008-11-20 18:29:18'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "The version with the offset outline seems a little less current. But, that
    could be because I'm old and have used that style before in the last 10 years.
    :^P I like them both though. Age isn't a reason to avoid using a style.\r\n\r\nEdit:
    I'm waffling. I think I do prefer the version without the outline because it implies
    a little more elegance. But, on the other hand I could equally say I prefer the
    other version because the outline and the offset implies a level of casual and
    openness."
  created: '2008-11-20 19:54:37'
- author:
    name: Jesse Bennett-Chamberlain
    picture: 110114
  body: "Thanks for your feedback... I'm sort of waffling on the outline direction
    as well. Part of me likes it, and part of me doesn't. It might just come down
    to how it's actually used. \r\n\r\nCan I shift gears for a bit and ask for some
    advice on the type itself? Is Omnes working? Do any other typefaces come to mind
    that might work better?"
  created: '2008-11-20 20:31:23'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'I think Omnes is working. It is one of the least uptight rounded sans. '
  created: '2008-11-20 21:05:21'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: "Outline version: no, no, no. Visually the hand symbol is stronger and clearer
    in the original form. The offset outline is trendy, but will date quickly. It
    also looks plugged up, and causes you to lose the nice space in between the fingers.
    Also, I preferred your original rendering of the hand. I don't see any way it
    would look like a claw. The way the fingers tapered in the original version looked
    more like feathers, I think you've lost some of the elegance in the new version.\r\n\r\nI
    think Omnes is a perfect compliment to the symbol, with the tapered endings. Nice
    job.\r\n\r\nI think you've gone past the solution in this latest version...\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-20 21:16:00'
- author:
    name: innovati
    picture: 114494
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/kleenex_6574.png]'
  created: '2008-11-21 05:15:39'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "Anyway.\r\nType works very well with the symbol.\r\nI like the non-outlined
    version better (as I said already once before).\r\n___________\r\n<em>Robert Koritnik</em>"
  created: '2008-11-21 16:34:03'
- author:
    name: Jesse Bennett-Chamberlain
    picture: 110114
  body: "Just to keep you posted on this. My church decided to hold off on the logo
    redesign until a later date when we get a new building. Makes sense to me. \r\n\r\nAnyone
    need a church logo? http://www.incspring.com/brand_details.php?brand_id=2442"
  created: '2009-02-24 17:41:49'
- author:
    name: Martijn van Berkel
    picture: 116039
  body: "Very nice logos I've seen here in this topic, great job! :D\r\nWhat's the
    rounded typeface used in your later logos?\r\n\r\nKind regards,\r\nMartijn van
    Berkel"
  created: '2009-07-25 22:50:31'
date: '2008-10-24 16:36:03'
files:
- filename: Lakemount Logo 2.1.png
  uri: public://old-images/Lakemount Logo 2.1.png
node_type: forum
title: Lakemount Worship Centre Logo

---
