---
author:
  name: hrant
  picture: 110403
body: 'So after a long delay, I&#39;ve finally compiled something that I feel could
  really help type designers: a list of the most frequent letter-pairs according to
  actual language, so that designers can better figure out what pairs need kerning.
  The following list is for English, and it&#39;s derived from the venerable Brown
  corpus &#40;by Kucera &amp; Francis&#41;. It&#39;s not a huge corpus by today&#39;s
  standards &#40;&#34;only&#34; about a million words&#41;, but it&#39;s nicely generic
  &#40;not limited to Shakespear, newspapers, or the Bible like some other corpora&#41;
  and there&#39;s been a lot of derivative research based on it - which is in fact
  what actually allowed me to do this, since I don&#39;t yet have the Brown corpus
  as a digital file; I compiled the files from a linguistic analysis book by Dominic
  Massaro, where all pairs in all 3-7 letter words from the Brown corpus were quantified
  &#40;in fact in all word positions&#41;. For the 2-letter words I went through the
  Brown corpus myself: there were about 25 of them - although they account for ~20%
  of English text! <BR> <BR>The list is broken up into three frequency groups. The
  cutoffs are pretty arbitrary, but what I tried to do is group them such that there&#39;s
  a triple difference: group 2 is three times the size of group 1, and group 3 is
  triple group 2. In this way a designer can decide how &#34;deep&#34; he wants to
  go. <BR> <BR><a href="http://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/kf_pairs.rtf" target="_blank">http://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/kf_pairs.rtf</a>
  <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
comments:
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Thanks Hrant!  That was a true scholar&#39;s effort. <BR> <BR>ChrisL
  created: '2004-06-05 19:50:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Interesting and laudable work, but I think you are mischaracterising its usefulness
    when you say &#39;designers can better figure out what pairs need kerning&#39;.
    <BR> <BR>I used to take this approach to kerning, but I now favour full-on, exhaustive,
    class-based kerning. Few fonts are used exclusively for one language, and it difficult
    to make predictions beyond one orthography to anticipate what kerning pairs might
    be important for other languages. So &#39;linguistic kerning&#39; is of limited
    value unless you have a pressing technical need to significantly limit the number
    of kerning pairs in a font. Letter pair frequency analysis should be seen as a
    good mechanism for filtering and reducing kerning information, not for building
    it.
  created: '2004-06-06 01:15:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'It&#39;s so flattering to have your constant &#34;special attention&#34;,
    John...  :-/ <BR> <BR>There are two reasons to make a kern for a letter pair:
    if it&#39;s very awkward &#40;like &#34;AV&#34;&#41;; or if it&#39;s slightly
    awkward but very common &#40;like &#34;st&#34;&#41;. Linguistic frequency data
    helps a lot for the latter&#42;. Since any form of design is concerned with efficiency,
    kerning absolutely everything is basically wasteful &#40;in at least two ways&#41;,
    and smart pair lists can only help&#42;&#42;. Mana-16 has 1500&#43; pairs, but
    it still consiously avoids many hundreds more. <BR> <BR>&#42; Similarly, minding
    the spacing of the most frequent 100 words in English -which cover 45% of typical
    text- makes your fonts better faster. So you can work on another font. <BR> <BR>&#42;&#42;
    Part of the reason is that you simply can&#39;t kern &#34;Ta&#34; and &#34;T'
  created: '2004-06-06 05:07:25'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: Great, this is cooperative spirit.
  created: '2004-06-06 05:32:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Hrant, you misunderstood me -- perhaps because you assume that I&#39;m picking
    on you --: I was not saying that what you have done is not useful, I was pointing
    out that its usefulness might be different from how you characterised it. This
    sort of linguistic information is useful, but I think it is most useful for filtering
    kerning data. And this is <i>not</i> the same as building kerning data. <BR> <BR>Luc&#40;as&#41;
    de Groot has the most extensive set of linguistic kern data that I&#39;m aware
    of, and he points out that this is the key to generating a manageable set of pairs
    that a&#41; are really useful and improve text for the languages covered in a
    predictable way, and b&#41; is small enough to work in all applications. The latter
    is the primary reason for wanting to filter kerning to the most frequent pairs.
    Many applications cannot support fonts with very large numbers of kern pairs &#40;Tom
    Phinney recommends no more than 3,000 standard kern pairs in a font&#41;. So the
    usefulness of linguistic kerning data is linked to technical limitations in specific
    font formats and applications, and in addressing these limitations the kind of
    data that you have compiled <i>is useful</i>. <BR> <BR>Through making fonts for
    companies like MS, though, I&#39;ve grown impatient with the process of making
    fonts to address software limitations or bugs. Many font developers are in an
    endless game of catch-up with software: always trailing in the wake of the latest
    versions, always trying to figure out what bugs exist or what parts of a given
    font format have been implemented and which have not. I try to avoid being in
    this situation, and design to the font specification and for software that is
    doing what it should, not what the app developers have bothered to do. This isn&#39;t
    always possible, of course: if a client specifically says &#39;I need this font
    to work in X application on Y operating system&#39;, then I need to do everything
    I can to make this possible, including linguistic filtering of kerning <i>if there
    is a significant limit on kern pair support in that application.</i> Again, this
    is why I see linguistic kerning as primarily a tool for filtering kerning data,
    not for developing it. <BR> <BR>There are a lot of languages in the world &#40;probably
    somewhere between 4,500 and 6,200, depending on how you count dialects&#41;. Of
    these, a very large number are written in the Latin script, with more or fewer
    diacritics. Many of these languages use &#39;common&#39; letters to represent
    different classes of phoneme, e.g. <i>w</i> is a vowel in Welsh, which significantly
    affects the kind of pair combinations in which it frequently occurs. The more
    of these languages one tries to support, the less useful letter-pair frequency
    information becomes, because the number of frequent pairs expands rapidly. <BR>
    <BR>When I started trying to build linguistic kerning data, my interest was less
    in frequency pairs per se but in determining which diacritic letters would be
    likely or unlikely to occur in sequence, based on a&#41; what groups diacritics
    were used by a given language and b&#41; how they were used for a language&#41;.
    But I soon came to the conclusion that a person could spend <i>a very long time</i>
    compiling such data, and still only scratch the surface, because every new language
    you research changes filters based on previous languages. At some stage, this
    process ceases to be efficient unless you decide that your fonts are only going
    to offer intentional kerning support for a fixed subset of languages &#40;which
    is where Luc is, I believe&#41;, i.e. other languages may be supported, but only
    by accident. <BR> <BR>OpenType GPOS, class-based kerning is the only current mechanism
    that offers an efficient way of providing kerning for multiple scripts and languages
    in a single font. Such kerning inevitably includes support for pairs that do not
    actually occur in any language, but by removing the need to filter kern data in
    order to address application limitations, it saves a huge amount of time building
    linguistic kerning filters and amassing the huge amount of data necessary for
    such filters. Ask yourself, how should type designers be spending their time:
    making new fonts and spacing them, or researching letter frequency or diacritic
    use in hundreds of languages in order to try to accomodate yesterday&#39;s software?
    <BR> <BR>So, again, I&#39;m not criticising what you&#39;ve done, only tried to
    put its usefulness in context. I think it is important that, before font makers
    go out and start trying to define kern pairs based on frequency in specific languages,
    they consider the broader picture. This is especially important because of changes
    in font and layout technology.'
  created: '2004-06-06 17:29:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; So the usefulness of linguistic kerning data <BR>&#62; is linked to
    technical limitations <BR> <BR>But also cost-effectiveness of human effort. <BR>
    <BR>&#62; unless you decide that your fonts are only <BR>&#62; going to offer
    intentional kerning support <BR>&#62; for a fixed subset of languages  <BR> <BR>Which
    is a highly realistic decision. <BR>Brute-forcing too many pairs is worse. <BR>
    <BR>&#62; how should type designers be spending their time <BR> <BR>I guess by
    striking a balance between quality and efficiency - and linguistic data helps.
    <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-06-06 17:44:52'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'This reminds me, ironically, of your comments re. modernism and control on
    the ATypI list. My approach to kerning these days is based on recognising an effectively
    unconquerable ignorance: we cannot know for what languages a font might be used,
    and we do not have time or resources to document every language on the planet
    to determine what kerning data might be important for each language; ergo, we
    should develop technologies and strategies for kerning that  acknowledge this
    ignorance.'
  created: '2004-06-06 17:55:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: <i>Brute-forcing too many pairs is worse.</i> <BR> <BR>But what is &#39;too
    many pairs&#39;? The only limitation on number of kerning pairs that I recognise
    are technical limitations, i.e. bugs in software. As soon as you start supporting
    diacritics in kern data, the number of kerning pairs starts mushrooming. I&#39;ve
    flattened class-based kerning in a number of OT fonts with similar character sets
    &#40;pan-European Latin, Greek and Slavic Cyrillic&#41;, and they tend to have
    between 26,000 and 35,000 pairs. But that&#39;s only &#39;too many pairs&#39;
    in terms of legacy applications that cannot support more than 3,000 pairs without
    crashing. As class-based kerning, this represents reasonable and effective kerning
    for <i>hundreds</i> of languages, achieved without needing to compile individual
    data sets on those languages. That is both quality <i>and</i> efficiency.
  created: '2004-06-06 18:03:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: '<i>But also cost-effectiveness of human effort.</i> <BR> <BR>Yes, this is
    my point: I have come to the conclusion that compiling linguistic data as a basis
    for kerning is not a cost-effective use of human effort because the payback is
    intentional support for at best a subset of languages. A much greater number of
    languages can be supported by accepting ignorance and providing exhaustive kerning
    by way of classes. It is important to realise just how efficient class-based kerning
    is relative to defining individual kern pairs.'
  created: '2004-06-06 18:12:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Regarding Modernism/control: I&#39;ve never advocated design hooliganism
    &#40;like in the 90s&#41;. Control is important, but one example of where control
    can go too far is implementing kerns that &#34;do not actually occur in any language&#34;.
    I&#39;ve been guilty of that myself, but the more linguistic data I have the less
    justified such purism will become. <BR> <BR>&#62; we should develop technologies
    and strategies <BR>&#62; for kerning that acknowledge this ignorance. <BR> <BR>Agreed
    - which is what I meant by &#34;determinism&#34;. But determinism doesn&#39;t
    necessarily lead to brute-forcing, it can just as well lead to <i>necessary</i>
    lapses in quality. <BR> <BR>&#62; The only limitation on number of kerning pairs
    that I recognise are technical limitations <BR> <BR>No, because the human effort
    required still remains. <BR> <BR>If class-based kerning makes the kerns for &#34;Ta&#34;
    and &#34;T'
  created: '2004-06-06 18:18:58'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Cap to lowercase combinations need quite a few exceptions to what one might
    get from class kerning alone. But cap to cap combinations need no exceptions AFAIK,
    and lowercase to lowercase rarely need exceptions. <BR> <BR>So, at least half
    the time, using class kerning promoted both efficiency and quality. The remainder
    of the time, one has to do more work--but never any more than one would have to
    do when dealing with plain old pairs. <BR> <BR>T
  created: '2004-06-07 02:01:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Hrant, have you done any work with class-based kerning? Your paradigm seems
    to be very pair-based, and I think this really is yesterday&#39;s technology.
    <BR> <BR>When you say &#39;control can do too far ... implementing kerns that
    do not occur in any language&#39;, I think you are missing my point re. class-based
    kerning, which is that you gain exhaustive kerning coverage automatically and
    at very little cost in terms of human effort, font size or processing time. <BR>
    <BR>Also, it is worth noting that pairs that do not occur in any language are
    typically pairs involving two diacritic letters that are not common to any orthography
    or which cannot occur side-by-side in any orthography &#40;a good example, and
    something I tend to filter just because I do <i>know</i> that they are unneeded,
    are pairs involving the '
  created: '2004-06-07 02:02:41'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: 'Another thing to keep in mind is that within a font: <BR> <BR>- classes are
    the most efficient way of dealing with kerning, especially for large character
    sets <BR> <BR>- suppressing or modifying pairs within classes takes more space
    than leaving the class kern as is. This is not an argument for leaving in an inaccurate
    value where there should be an &#34;exception&#34; to override it, but there is
    absolutely no reason to suppress &#34;unnecessary pairs&#34; within the font,
    in a class kerning environment. <BR> <BR>I&#39;m glad that Adam and I are repeating
    our talk on class kerning for the Type Tech Forum at ATypI Prague. It&#39;s a
    powerful, but often misunderstood, tool. <BR> <BR>Cheers, <BR> <BR>T'
  created: '2004-06-07 04:15:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; But cap to cap combinations need no exceptions <BR> <BR>Unless you
    make your accented caps shorter - which I&#39;ve done in Mana-16 - and I&#39;ve
    seen done elsewhere. But I agree it&#39;s rare. <BR> <BR>-- <BR> <BR>&#62; have
    you done any work with class-based kerning? <BR> <BR>Not yet, I admit. And I&#39;ll
    probably like it when I get around to it. But the point is that -like anything
    else, including linguistic data- its usefuless is not absolute, it depends on
    individual designers, and what they feel they need to do. No solution or method
    is equally valid for all of us - note for example how even highly accomplished
    designers vary in their use of hand drawing &amp; scanning, versus direct bezier
    design. And in my case for example I frankly don&#39;t make enough fonts with
    enough characters to really need class-based kerning, at least as far as I can
    tell &#40;but maybe I&#39;m wrong&#41;. <BR> <BR>&#62; one should never assume
    that there is no .... <BR> <BR>While I think &#34;never&#34; is not what design
    is about - if you get my meaning. <BR>It&#39;s the anti-control thing again. <BR>
    <BR>-- <BR> <BR>And there&#39;s something else: the &#40;potential&#41; usefulness
    of linguistic pair data isn&#39;t limited to kerning. As Eric Olson has demonstrated,
    such data can be useful in deciding what ligatures to include for example. And
    it can even help determine not only spacing, but actually letterform details too!
    Since it&#39;s all related, and a glyph doesn&#39;t exist in a vacuum. <BR> <BR>I
    have a nice list of <i>trigraphs</i> brewing, and kerning doesn&#39;t even go
    there! <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-06-07 05:58:50'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Actually, kerning goes there just fine. Just not your old-fashioned pair kerning.
    But in OpenType you can kern trigraphs or longer combinations if you like. <BR>
    <BR>T
  created: '2004-06-07 08:22:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: I&#39;d forgotten about that! Great news. What apps support it? <BR>BTW, does
    class kerning handle greater-than-digraphs? <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2004-06-07 16:10:39'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: '&#62; What apps support it? <BR> <BR>Heck if I know. AFAIK, nobody has built
    a test font for more-than-pair kerning. Without seeing it tested, I wouldn&#39;t
    want to assume that it works. Painful experience and wise advice has lef me to
    be from the &#34;if it hasn&#39;t been tested, it doesn&#39;t work&#34; school.
    <BR> <BR>&#62; Does class kerning handle greater than digraphs? <BR> <BR>Yes and
    no. Class kerning meaning the table of classes against classes is inherently oriented
    towards kerning one glyph against another. But one would use contextual kerning
    statements to do kerning of more than two glyphs in a string, and there&#39;s
    no reason you can&#39;t use classes in contextual kerning statements &#40;just
    as one can in contextual substitution statements&#41;. <BR> <BR>T'
  created: '2004-06-07 16:31:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: MS Office on Windows supports contextual kerning for any scripts for which
    OT kerning is automatically handled as part of basic shaping, e.g. Thai, Arabic,
    Hebrew, etc. <BR> <BR>I&#39;ve made Thai and Arabic fonts that use contextual
    kerning. It works.
  created: '2004-06-07 16:40:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Does that mean kerning can be &#34;cascaded&#34; depending on context &#40;if
    you know what I mean&#41;? <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2004-06-07 17:14:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'Fontographer&#39;s &#34;Kerning Assistance&#34; has been doing class-based
    kerning since 1993/4. <BR> <BR>For a basic Latin font without excessive kerning
    of non-accented lower case characters, you can kern all your cap-cap, cap-lc and
    lc-lc, all your accented characters, non-alphetics, and still come in under 2,000
    pairs. <BR> <BR>&#42;&#42;&#42; <BR> <BR>However, if you want to kern for &#34;DotCom&#34;
    words &#40;which is where I draw the line&#41;, it could go a bit higher...  <BR>
    <BR>&#42;&#42;&#42; <BR> <BR>It should be pointed out that class based kerning
    is only as discerning as the user makes it. For instance, it is tempting to lump
    V and W into the same kern class, but only if the angles of the stems are identical,
    which is frequently not the case.  <BR> <BR>&#42;&#42;&#42; <BR> <BR>The perfect
    use for multi-character kerns: in abbreviated titles. If you kern your periods
    tightly to the caps &#40;on both sides!&#41;, something like &#34;Y.Y&#34; has
    the letters colliding, so a 3-glyph exception would solve that problem &#40;which
    also fools InD&#39;s Optical Kerning&#41;. But man, it would be so much work it
    would only be justified if you could amortize it over a large set of accented
    characters. '
  created: '2004-06-07 17:57:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; Fontographer&#39;s &#34;Kerning Assistance&#34; has been <BR>&#62;
    doing class-based kerning since 1993/4. <BR> <BR>And Font Studio way before that!
    <BR> <BR>&#62; it would only be justified if you could amortize it <BR> <BR>Or
    automate it... <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-06-07 18:02:52'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Yes, class-based kerning is not new, nor is it unique to OpenType. <BR> <BR>Of
    course, one shouldn&#39;t forget that there is a difference between classes as
    a way of generating kern pairs, and building the classes into the fonts to make
    for a more compact representation of kerning. <BR> <BR>One could easily automate
    construction of classes. It would need some tweaking, but could work pretty well.
    The automated class construction could be based on a static list, by looking for
    glyphs with identical sidebearings, or by some combination. My approach involve
    a static list, plus analysis of glyph names, and using that to do both class-based
    kerning and class-based spacing. <BR> <BR>Cheers, <BR> <BR>T
  created: '2004-06-07 19:17:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; analysis of glyph names <BR> <BR>Ah, so for example if you saw &#34;grave&#34;
    in the name of a lc character, you would automatically not kern it &#40;or kern
    it less&#41; when it came after a UC, like the &#34;T&#34;? Clever. <BR> <BR>hhp
    <BR>'
  created: '2004-06-07 19:22:17'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'I&#39;m not sure what you mean by &#39;cascaded&#39;, Hrant. Here are some
    examples of things I&#39;ve done with contextual kerning: <BR> <BR>When vowel
    or other marks are applied to Arabic text, they may collide with adjacent letters
    if the base is narrow or if the letters are kerned. There are two ways to solve
    this: by contextually repositioning the marks or by contextually rekerning the
    letters. Neither solution is appropriate to all situations, so the Arabic fonts
    I&#39;ve worked on sometimes move the mark and sometimes move the letter, depending
    on the specific context. <BR> <BR>In Thai, the tall vowel signs need to be kern
    off the marks above preceding letters. Since the marks may be stacked two deep,
    kerning need to be contextual and to account for single marks or sequences of
    marks.'
  created: '2004-06-07 21:26:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Interesting elaboration - thanks. <BR> <BR>What I was trying to ask &#40;clumsily&#41;
    is whether a kern can depend on the existence/size of a <i>previous</i> kern.
    Contextual kerning, if you would. This would allow an entire word to be set looser
    based on what some pairs in the word are doing - although I guess -if you build
    a table big enough- what you&#39;re describing could do the same thing? <BR> <BR>hhp
    <BR>
  created: '2004-06-07 22:48:54'
date: '2004-06-05 17:31:49'
node_type: forum
title: Linguistic Kerning

---
