---
author:
  name: babyDahl
  picture: 116080
body: "I am still pretty new to freelance, but things are moving so fast now. I need
  an few figures from you guys on how much your would charge for something such as
  a letterhead, business card and logo design?? My client is starting up his new consulting
  company and needs this designing. He asked me how much it would cost, so I said,
  you give me a fair price and we can go from there, he came back with \xA3200. I
  was thinking more along the lines of \xA3300/\xA3400. I did some work recently for
  his hair salon which he was very impressed by, and we also get along great. But,
  it has potential for more and more commissions as he likes my work a lot. I also
  charge by the project. I don't want to scare him off by overcharging cause he is
  a polite guy and don't want him to feel like I am ripping him off.\r\n\r\nPeace
  guys!\r\n\r\nDahl."
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>\u2026he came back with \xA3200.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s a not nearly
    enough.\r\n\r\n<cite>But, it has potential for more and more commissions as he
    likes my work a lot.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe only potential this has is the potential
    for him to tell the same bullshit to the designer who does his web site for \xA3200,
    his advertising for \xA3200, and so on. Tell him that if he wants a \xA3200 identity,
    he can go buy a stock identity online. Otherwise, give him an estimate based on
    your hourly rate and then charge him for the work you do."
  created: '2008-10-28 15:21:38'
- author:
    name: _null
  body: "totally agree with James.\r\nAlso, try to work by the motto of: \r\n\r\n\"your
    only worth as much as you charge\" - Paul Arden\r\n\r\nProvided your honest, and
    you can break down your fee to a client; studio costs (software and machines need
    paying for), personal expenses, materials, proofing costs, and a profit! They
    shouldn't have a problem, and if they do...There's plenty more clients in the
    sea.\r\n\r\np.s. you got some tight handstyles going on! I have no idea where
    your finding fat markers in Derby tho...I always had to visit the graff store
    in Nottingham to stock up!"
  created: '2008-10-28 17:08:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>letterhead, business card and logo design</em>\r\n\r\nThis is more than
    the sum of the parts, it's a corporate identity.\r\nThat's why you should charge
    your client more for this, and rationalize it similarly.\r\nHopefully, your client
    will understand.\r\nAlso, you may find that designing an identity can be quite
    time consuming, more than the sum of the parts, in fact..."
  created: '2008-10-28 17:51:32'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "The equation: \r\n\r\nAmount of money you want to make in a year to cover
    your salary, expenses, insurance, rent, etc DIVIDED BY the number of *billable*
    hours you can work a year = your hourly rate\r\n\r\nThat's a simplification, and
    doesn't take into consideration premium talent or service, but it's surprising
    how few people actually even figure that basic equation out before trying to figure
    out what to charge for their time."
  created: '2008-10-28 18:11:43'
- author:
    name: babyDahl
    picture: 116080
  body: "Well, I went back and said I would charge \xA3350 for the project, whether
    it takes a week or 1 day to complete, it's the fixed price he pays. The only problem
    is that he knows I don't have a lot of experience with clients and my client folio
    isn't huge, so he is using this against me. \r\n\r\nThis is what he replied to
    in my email.\r\n\r\nHi Daniel\r\n \r\nDont't take this the wrong way as it's only
    friendly advice, as you're a nice guy.  Clearly, you have talent to produce what
    you do without formal design education.  I offered you the work just because I
    thought it may build your portfolio to include work for actual clients.  Although
    I'm not a designer, I have briefed agencies myself and through large corporates
    from anything as small as an A6 flier, to a \xA32m re-brand of a global bank,
    so I understand that a logo with letterhead and business card should be one man-day,
    which makes your daily rate \xA3350.  If you had 5 years experience you could
    absolutely start charging \xA3350-450 p/d (outside London).  Just by way of contrast,
    the best design agency in Derby that I used charged their senior designer out
    at \xA3400 p/day and that included their overheads.\r\n \r\nI've had to build
    up myself and the best thing you can do is to start to get some real examples
    in your portfolio that shows you can design in different styles against a client
    brief.  That does mean, in the early days, offering lost leads and heavily discounted
    rates to build up.  When you have the experience you can demand the higher fees.\r\n
    \r\nSo I'm not undervaluing you but I don't value the logo over \xA3200 and would
    find a designer who work for that fee.\r\n \r\nLet me know what you think.\r\n\r\nOk,
    so what do you guys think of this??\r\n\r\nThanks for the advice so far. \r\n "
  created: '2008-10-28 19:12:05'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I understand that a logo with letterhead and business card should be one
    man-day\"\r\n\r\nThis sounds like a logoworks client more than someone that actually
    knows the amount of work that should go into a quality logo solution. I'd say
    'thanks, but no thanks'.\r\n\r\nIf they only want \xA3200 worth of quality, you
    need to decide if that level of quality is worth anything in your portfolio.\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-28 19:49:42'
- author:
    name: _null
  body: "This is my personal opinion, and it may not be the best...\r\n\r\n\u2022
    Nick's nailed it, it's a corporate identity (which would be a brand bible) With
    deliverables including assorted stationary.\r\n\r\n\u2022  I think \xA3350 is
    more than fair, considering your environment. You've even given him a fixed price!\r\n\r\n\u2022
    \ this comment of his I find quite disrespectful: \"I offered you the work just
    because I thought it may build your portfolio to include work for actual clients.\"
    Clients will always try the \"I'm doing you a favour line...\" don't buy it. Seriously!\r\n\r\n\u2022
    He makes a point of \xA3200 for the logo, this could be fair. Solely for the logo.
    I would take that, and tell him to find another designer to produce the stationary.
    The latter is the labour intensive part, liaising with printers, proofing costs
    and the general logistics involved. Also, the logo will take you further than
    the stationary folio wise...\r\n\r\n\u2022 If your doing it right, corporate stationary
    shouldn't be done in a day...what exactly does he think his \xA32m global bank
    rebrand went on? The one day designer doing the whole thing for \xA3400, is your
    average kall kwik mac monkey - which goes back to James' point about off the shelf...\r\n\r\n\u2022
    Lost leads is just stupid. Only work free or cheap if it's something close to
    your heart.\r\n\r\n\u2022 Don't be afraid to say no...because you'll be laughing
    your socks off when you see what he gets for \xA3200.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-28 19:50:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>letterhead, business card and logo design</em>\r\n\r\nThis is more than
    the sum of the parts, it's a corporate identity.\r\nThat's why you should charge
    your client more for this, and rationalize it similarly.\r\nHopefully, your client
    will understand.\r\nAlso, you may find that designing an identity can be quite
    time consuming, more than the sum of the parts, in fact.\r\nQuite apart from measuring
    the value of your work based on time and expenses, there is the value of the brand
    you are creating as intellectual property to be considered, which could last for
    decades and ultimately be an important part of the value of a large company.\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-28 20:02:21'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Its amazing to me that design schools don't get into teaching the business
    of design. Such a shame. \r\n\r\nI did a week-long type design workshop at a major
    design school in Philadelphia last year, and they were proud of the fact that
    they offered their students nothing in the way of business courses. Stunning!\r\n\r\nWhen
    I was teaching I'd always make sure we spent at least one class going over the
    basic calculations (presented here by Aluminum) of hourly rates, markups, how
    to calculate a price for work and the like.   \r\n\r\nMy students were shocked
    to hear that marking up bought services for your client was an acceptable business
    practice. I'm going through a studio renovation and the General Contractor is
    quite up front about the 20% mark-up he adds to electrical, plumbing and painting.
    I certainly have no problem with it\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-28 20:57:38'
- author:
    name: babyDahl
    picture: 116080
  body: "My reply to him was:\r\n\r\nI totally agree with what you are saying. This
    wasn't just for the logo, it was for\r\neverything including business card design
    and letterhead. I guess I have learned a\r\nlesson from this, never tell the client
    what past experience I have. As for design in\r\nderby, derby has nothing much
    really to offer and the standard is pretty poor. I don't\r\ncharge per day either,
    I charge by project. Every designer has their ways of charging,\r\nI'd rather
    charge by project. If it took 2 weeks to get right, you still pay the same as
    you would if it took 2 hours. I fix the price based on the average timescale I
    can do this in.\r\n\r\nHis latest reply:\r\n\r\nHi Daniel\r\n\r\nI'm only trying
    to help. The offer is there If you want to build your portfolio and earn\r\nsome
    money, let me know.\r\n\r\n\xA3200 for logo, letterhead and business card design.\r\n\r\nYou
    need to get more commercial experience Daniel before you start to charge full\r\ncommercial
    rates.\r\n\r\n\r\nMy business brain is awful!:-( \r\n\r\nYou people seem to know
    what your talking about and I really dunno what to do. I totally agree with you
    all, I can't see him finding better for \xA3200 as mentioned. He seems to think
    that because I don't have commercial experience I can't charge a good price regardless
    of the standard of work I produce. I really think I am going to refuse from the
    comments I have read."
  created: '2008-10-28 21:31:55'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "The more crap like this I see the more tempted I am to just cut my losses
    with design and get a job doing something else. I\u2019m getting really sick and
    tired of having to compete with the chop shops. "
  created: '2008-10-28 21:40:18'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Its amazing to me that design schools don\u2019t get into teaching the
    business of design. Such a shame.\"\r\n\r\nYep.\r\n\r\nOne story that has always
    left a thorn on my side was being newly out of school working at a firm and volunteering
    for a local AIGA portfolio review event. In the evening, they had a panel of respected
    professional designers on stage so students could ask questions. When the questions
    petered out, I offered one up to keep things rolling along the lines of \"When
    should a person start thinking and talking about salary with a potential employer?\"\r\n\r\nNow,
    I thought that was a really good question, as in my years of college, the topic
    never came up. In fact, the first time it came up with on my first interview where
    the president of the company asked me what I wanted. Which, of course, is the
    worst time to suddenly think \"oh crap! I never thought about that!\"\r\n\r\nWell,
    the panel seemed unanimous in saying that it was an absurd question and salary
    should be the last thing talked/worried about.\r\n\r\nSadly, 10+ years into my
    career and a half dozen jobs later, I realize they were right. It's still the
    norm for salary to be discussed at the tail end of a job negotiation.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    I'm way off base, but I just find it completely backwards. It's naive to think
    we all work because we love the work. We may, but we work to make money. \r\n\r\nGrr.\r\n\r\nAnyways,
    so yea, stick to your guns. You are worth what you are worth and nothing less
    and you don't want a client that is going to try go talk you out of that simple
    fact.\r\n\r\nAlong terminals great pricing story, the one I always liked is: Call
    up your local licensed, highly recommended plumber and ask them their hourly rate.
    Charge at least that much. \r\n\r\n\"I can\u2019t see him finding better for \xA3200
    as mentioned.\"\r\n\r\nThat's the route I'd take. Let him find a solution for
    that price. He'll either a) love it, in which case you'll learn that he wasn't
    necessarily interested in quality anyways or b) he'll come running  back to you
    asking you to fix it for him.\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-28 21:56:10'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "One last analogy:\r\n\r\nPretend you are a chef. Your menu should consist
    of fine wines, wondrous steaks, elegant pastries, etc.\r\n\r\nA customer walks
    in asking for a burger and fries for $3.99. You could accommodate him, and he
    may be very satisfied, and you did make $3.99, but did it really further your
    career to any extent? Probably not.\r\n\r\nI'm not saying it's not OK to make
    $3.99. I've built plenty of cheap designs for clients that just wanted that...a
    cheap solution. But don't feel compelled that you have to, or think that it will
    do much for the portfolio."
  created: '2008-10-28 22:00:45'
- author:
    name: babyDahl
    picture: 116080
  body: "Hmmm, aluminum your last line just made something click, I don't need this
    job for portfolio work, I can just do a personal project based on the same subject
    if I wanted to and it wouldn't be for a client. I know for a fact, I can produce
    work as good as any designer in my area and if he wants to settle for a quick
    job at \xA3200, so be it. I one day will see the crap he gets and I will smile
    with joy."
  created: '2008-10-28 22:09:36'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "When prospective clients start putting you down to get you to lower your
    price, that's the time to walk out. EVERY time I have had this happen and tried
    to work something out, they ended up wanting more concessions and more and more
    and more. It is a dispiriting relationship that will NEVER enrich your portfolio
    because it will affect the work you do for them. \r\n\r\nAs Tom Rushlow, an incredible
    salesmen I worked for said - \"Get them to say yes, or push them off the cliff\".
    Now's the time to mentally push them off the cliff. Wish them well and forget
    about it and go on to your next project. Don't waste any more time wondering if
    it will work - it won't.\r\n\r\nI said that all very firmly because I have experienced
    this same behavior in clients and I think it is absolutely the worst relationship
    you can enter into. But I'm not you, so you'll have to make your own decisions
    and have your own experiences.\r\n\r\nBTW - I love your site, your work, and your
    creative ideas. You are definitely worth your price.\r\n\r\nSharon"
  created: '2008-10-28 23:57:31'
- author:
    name: fi
    picture: 113733
  body: "\r\nDoes anyone else think that guy comes off as really slimy? \r\n\r\n\"You
    need to get more commercial experience Daniel before you start to charge full\r\ncommercial
    rates.\"\r\n\r\nI thought you just had to do commercial quality work to get paid
    at a commercial level. \r\n\r\nDid you notice that he threw in your first name
    in the middle of that sentence just to patronize you? \"Daniel let me tell you
    how it really works my son\" \r\n\r\nI don't charge commercial rates for my work
    because I know its weak sauce, but your work looks top notch. "
  created: '2008-10-29 01:10:16'
- author:
    name: boardman
    picture: 110337
  body: 'I just want to second all of the excellent advice here. Charge at least what
    you''re worth and try hard to stick to your guns. It''s not easy when you''re
    starting out. My first job was for $100.00 and I did a great job - but the client
    still wasn''t happy. You might tell the client this: "While I appreciate your
    advice and your concern for my career, I will seek out clients that value my services
    appropriately." Short and to the point.'
  created: '2008-10-29 03:09:44'
- author:
    name: acnapyx
    picture: 113394
  body: "Maybe I'll put the things short and frank. Getting the job done - with desired
    quality! - is one thing, negotiating the price is something waaay different. \r\n\r\nOne
    of the hardest things I have to do is explaining clients exactly <strong>why</strong>
    they should pay such price. At least in my experience, the client most of the
    time does not care how big is your portfolio, neither is so much interested in
    high quality, but prefers to make a 'winning deal' - i.e. getting best results
    for nearly nothing. If the quality is most important factor, client should accept
    your quote and discuss specific quality requirements, not drive a hard bargain.
    \r\n\r\nHow you define how much your work is worth paying for? Well, my principle
    is never to underestimate yourself. If you're satisfied with \xA3300, ask \xA3400-450,
    so you can have the chance to lower your price to accomodate the client's needs
    (if it's really worth it). I do not believe this is the case though.\r\n\r\nSo,
    when dealing with slimy guys trying to sell you bullshit in the manner of '<em>I'm
    doing you a favour</em>', let them rot in their slime. Such relations with the
    client are simply not worth it, and unsurprisingly often lead to subpar designs.
    Unless I desperately need these money, I would turn down his offer, and even ridicule
    him for the last mail you quoted - quite close to his own manner of patronizing.
    My reply would be '<em>So you still cannot find someone to do it for such price?
    Keep looking, good luck in finding one</em>'. I'm not the most polite guy, when
    my effort is underestimated.\r\n\r\nIn fact you in my opinion have made already
    two mistakes: letting him to quote a base price you can discuss later, and demonstrating
    you have 'not that huge' portfolio. My policy is always to give my quote first,
    and then negotiate. Unless, of course, you desperately need the money..."
  created: '2008-10-29 04:01:04'
- author:
    name: babyDahl
    picture: 116080
  body: "wow, thanks guys, great to read these replies. Just to say that my portfolio
    is pretty big with around 40 designs printed at a2 on 225 gsm somerset enhanced
    velvet paper. I am very proud of it. The only down fall is that most of my work
    in there is personal projects and not varied enough. Thanks to Sharon and fi for
    taking the time to look at my work, and I appreciate the confidence boost to believe
    in myself more. \r\n\r\nThis guy obviously doesn't value his new business to much
    if he is willing to spend \xA3200 on these jobs. After all, his logo, etc will
    be representing his business. After much thought and reading on here, I did tell
    him that I wasn't interesting in a reasonable way, but I was very tempted to tell
    him my real heated feeling.\r\n\r\nMy reply.\r\n\r\nAfter much more thought and
    loads of advice from fellow designers, I have decided to\r\nreject the offer of
    \xA3200. For some reason you seem to think that cause I lack commercial experience
    I have to charge a low price no matter what my standard is. For \xA3200, you will
    not get a a logo, letterhead and business card designed to a high standard. You
    must really undervalue your new business pretty low if you are gonna trust some
    poor designer to design this stuff for you at a price of \xA3200. If you want
    to pay that for a logo alone you will be lucky to find a stock logo. You know
    the fact I don't have commercial experience and use that to base the price on
    which is totally undervalued. Jason, I like you and were pretty much on the same
    level when it comes to knowing where to take a design, but I can't work at this
    offer. Also, it isn't a one day job, the logo will take days to research, etc
    and that's excluding the business cards and letterhead. Would you really want
    me to do all that in a day?? Good design takes time.\r\n\r\nI don't think you
    realize how much effort went into that flyer I designed for eye candy. I spent
    so much time on that and I really hope you appreciate it. It also should show
    you that I can produce work for clients.\r\n\r\nYou have your rates for your salon
    and I have my rates. If I walked into a hairdressing\r\nsalon and knew a stylists
    didn't have much experience, it wouldn't matter in the\r\nslightest, if he/she
    did a good job, I would pay a good price regardless.\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-29 09:05:16'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "My rule of thumb in pricing is based upon the capitalistic theory of \"whatver
    price the customer will bear\", and \"perceived value\".\r\n\r\nThe higher the
    price, the greater is the \"perceived value\".\r\n\r\nSince people like a bargain,
    I always \"discount\" a very high price. Like \"a 50% off introductory offer\".\r\n\r\nSay
    I want a $2,500 for a job. I'll price it at $5k, and offer \"a 50% off introductory
    offer\".\r\n\r\nI'll list the cost of the various item, totalling well over $5k.
    I'll write that the group discount for all the items brings the price down to
    $5k. 50% off is $2,500.\r\n\r\nIn this way, the customer thinks he got a bargain,
    and you get the amount you want.\r\n\r\nMy teacher and mentor in college taught
    me, \"shoot high\" - for you can always lower your price. If you start out too
    cheap, and raise the price later, you'll lose the customer forever. \r\n\r\nIf
    you start out higher, you will be perceived as high end and quality. If you start
    out too low, you will be perceived as cheap, not so good, and barely professional.\r\n\r\nIn
    your specific case, estimate howw many hours it took to do the job, and add any
    additional hours that the customer would think it should take at most. Multiply
    all the hours by a rate per hour that you think you're worth. Double it, and quote
    the job. Mention that since this is the first time that the customer gives you
    a project, he's entitled to an introducy discount of 50%.\r\n\r\nHe is happy,
    and so are you."
  created: '2008-10-29 09:15:27'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Its amazing to me that design schools don\u2019t get into teaching the
    business of design. Such a shame.</em>\r\n\r\nAmen! I wish the MA at Reading would
    have had a (small) business module."
  created: '2008-10-29 09:23:37'
- author:
    name: clashmore
    picture: 114206
  body: "The whole \"Do it on the cheap so you can build your portfolio\" routine
    is such a pain in the ass. The sad thing is that it probably works on some people.
    Don't be a sucker.\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-29 12:29:38'
- author:
    name: bemerx25
    picture: 112539
  body: All this discussion makes me happy that my college offered a "business practices
    for artists" course and (I believe) made it required for all BA/BFA students.
    Yes we do this because we love it, but part of why we love it is that it pays
    the bills.
  created: '2008-10-29 13:43:07'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I would rather do a job for free than for a price I felt was too low. I would
    tell this to my students, who were constantly being taken advantage of under the
    guise of \"Your a student, do this job for peanuts to build your portfolio.\"\r\n\r\nIf
    a beginner truly needs the work for a portfolio, doing it for free allows them
    to maintain all the control. You can't be pushed into places where you feel uncomfortable,
    because your response is \"I'm doing this for free\".\r\n\r\nYou'll get the results
    you want, under the time constraints that work for you. And let's face it, getting
    $200 for a $3000 job, and relinquishing all the power in the relationship is no
    way to stay healthy."
  created: '2008-10-29 14:45:55'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "What I want to know is why these people know to look for young designers
    to sucker in this way. Nobody pulls this with young electricians or plumbers (then
    again, they have good unions). Is ripping off designers chapter two of <em>Starting
    a Small Business for Dummies?</em> I\u2019ve also noticed that this tends to come
    from certain industries: small service-oriented businesses, mom-and-pop shops,
    and photographers seem to make up 90% of these requests. I\u2019ve never seen
    a plumber, electrician, lawyer, or restaurateur trying to screw designers like
    this. Even non-profits are usually good about just asking for pro-bono work up
    front instead of the \u201Cit can be for your portfolio\u2026\u201D scam. "
  created: '2008-10-29 16:09:32'
- author:
    name: babyDahl
    picture: 116080
  body: Lol, James, you speak straight to the point and I like it. Your so right!!:-))
  created: '2008-10-29 16:48:30'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Jeez\u2026 305 pounds is around 500 euro, right? That's what I charge friends
    for a simple Identity (logo, letterhead, business card, one more item) with no
    more than 2 colours. Mind you: real friends, not casual acquaintances.\r\n\r\nAnecdotal:
    A famous advertising guy in the Netherlands (no longer amongst us) had great advice
    regarding pricing: the amount you charge for any service must be a little painful
    for the client, but not enough to make him bleed.\r\n\r\nWhen I did serious work
    (I am semi-retired now, or on an extended sabbatical) I always asked clients what
    they had budgeted for a project. Sometimes it took some convincing before tehy
    would tell, of course. That budget I would divide in two. One half for creativity,
    the other for execution (printing etc.). And I would include my mark up in the
    latter half. Worked pretty good\u2026\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2008-10-29 19:59:22'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "I've posted this before, but here goes.\r\n\r\nA typical conversation I've
    had with clients when I was stating out:\r\n\r\n<strong>Them:</strong> So, you
    are a designer..is that like, you work with computers and stuff?\r\n<strong>Me:</strong>
    Well I do, but it\u2019s just a small fraction of it, a computer is just a tool..\r\n<strong>Them:</strong>
    Year, right, so, what is it that you do? A Designer of what?\r\n<strong>Me:</strong>
    Well, what you see around you, posters billboards, books, signage, packages..websites
    (on rare occasions)\r\n<strong>Them:</strong> Ah ! So you are a webdesigner!\r\n<strong>Me:</strong>
    Well not so much, I dabble on occasion but..\r\n<strong>Them:</strong> Hey, you
    know what, my daughter needs a logo for her band, I still have a few minutes before
    I have to head back, can you make one for her before I leave?\r\n<strong>Me:</strong>
    Well, see now, designing a logo takes a lot of effort, and it\u2019s not just
    a mark, what we do is create identity systems..\r\n<strong>Them:</strong> Don\u2019t
    be ridiculous, I see logos every day, they are tiny things, you can make a dozen
    in five minutes. I\u2019d do it myself, but I can\u2019t draw, tell you what,
    just draw me a picture and I\u2019ll put in the text and everything, My cousin
    showed me how to do shadows and other cool things in Photoshop!\r\n<strong>Me:</strong>
    Identity design is probably the most difficult discipline within the field of
    graphic design, it requires one to sift through countless concepts to arrive at
    a finished, concise form that embodies a whole score of ideas, is unique, and
    pleasing to the eye. You have to appeal to the target, and after all, a logo is
    just a tip of the iceberg. A logo by itself is just a mark, what makes it magic,
    is an expansive and detailed identity system, that establishes a particular style
    to all areas of visual communication, from architecture to the color of your toilet
    paper.\r\n<strong>Them:</strong> Well, that's just a load of corporate nonsense
    isn\u2019t it? It\u2019s just a way for you guys to raise your price. All I need
    is a simple little logo. I don\u2019t even mind if it only has two colors, and
    I can add the shadow myself. I was going to order it from one of those online
    logo places, but they are charging $50! Isn\u2019t that ridiculous? 50 bucks for
    a tiny picture. Who\u2019d ever pay that? If you want payment, I can give you
    this gift certificate for $35 at Quick-E-Mart. How about that?\r\n\r\n<strong>And
    then you accept their commission, because they are distant friends of your relatives
    and you can\u2019t say no, or for that matter, ask for a fair price:</strong>\r\n\r\n<strong>Me:</strong>
    Here are three directions that we can take to develop your identity.\r\n<strong>Them:</strong>
    Oou! It looks pretty good, but I don\u2019t like the green.\r\n<strong>Me:</strong>
    The green is there to blah-blah-blah... but it doesn\u2019t matter. What we have
    to decide, is which of the three do we pick and work on further.\r\n<strong>Them:</strong>
    Oh, I think the left one is the best of the bunch, but I thought about it some
    more this past week, and I think we should have strawberries. I\u2019ve asked
    my friends and my partner, they all agree, that strawberries are a good positive
    image.\r\n<strong>Me:</strong> Eh?\r\nThem: And here is a font that I fond on
    the web, it\u2019s modern and forward-looking.\r\n<strong>Me:</strong> But..\r\n<strong>Them:</strong>
    So, if you could just take that design on the left, put a strawberry on top, and
    write the text in ZZ_Type_Kool, we\u2019ll be golden.\r\n<strong>Me:</strong>
    Hang on a minute... /Writes up a 2-page essay explaining the value of quality
    design, the difference between kitsch and avantgard, the meaning of professionalism
    and the role of a designer as conceptual communicator./\r\n<strong>Them:</strong>
    /After skipping through to the least sentence in the essay/ Stop being difficult!
    I am paying you money, and should be entitled to get what I ask. I even found
    you the font (ZZ_Type_Kool) so you don\u2019t even have to search for one. My
    insurance company needs a pink strawberry on top of a shining golden spear, and
    I expect to get it. If $100 I paid is not enough, I can add 20 more for your troubles.\r\n<strong>Me:</strong>
    So why do you even need a designer?\r\n<strong>Them:</strong> I can\u2019t draw
    strawberries. Look, I\u2019ve worked with other designers before, and it was always
    very easy, I tell them what I want, they do it and get paid. See what they did
    for me? /shows a juggernaut of piss and glitter/\r\n<strong>Me:</strong> But that\u2019s
    horrible!\r\n<strong>Them:</strong> All designers say that about the work of all
    other designers! And it only cost me $50.\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2008-10-29 22:13:14'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I'd be very careful about posting verbatim email on this forum. Google loves
    Typophile. You'd be surprised how many clients (potential clients) have tracked
    down threads such as this. \r\n\r\nOn the other hand I think you do need to stand
    up for what you are worth. It is a very nasty thing to take advantage of someone.
    Especially based upon some pre-conceived notion of lack of experience. "
  created: '2008-10-30 00:01:12'
- author:
    name: innovati
    picture: 114494
  body: "I can understand the challenge of charging what you're worth when starting
    out - that's where I am right now, but what the experienced people have said is
    so true, if you settle for less you really are restraining yourself, not the client
    or the design.\r\n\r\nI'm glad you rejected the offer, I was on the edge of my
    seat reading this thread!"
  created: '2008-10-30 04:58:04'
- author:
    name: victor ivanov
    picture: 111726
  body: "i just wanted to give my two cents to people who are starting out.\r\n\r\nAlways
    ask for a deposit, because you <strong>will</strong> get bad clients. My 1st freelance
    job which was a website, I have priced very generously, and on the last stages
    of development the client has disappeared. Thus I have waisted my time doing something
    for him and gained nothing. Now I don't start the job until the deposit is in
    my bank."
  created: '2008-10-30 05:43:18'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: It is always the charity priced jobs that stiff you it seems.
  created: '2008-10-30 15:10:15'
- author:
    name: victor ivanov
    picture: 111726
  body: 'it makes sense in a weird sort of way. By offering a low price, designers
    only bring down the value of their own work, causing the client to have less respect
    for it. '
  created: '2008-10-30 15:25:28'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "I second Miss Tiffany's advice about Google.\r\n\r\nTo that I would add:
    if indeed your posts here are verbatim what you sent to your client, consider
    adding to polish to your writing style. Addressing a client in the same manner
    as your mates doesn't help the point you're trying to make. 'cause, gonna, stuff,
    etc gotta go, yo! If he is one of your mates from the pub, carry on."
  created: '2008-10-30 20:28:55'
- author:
    name: Chris Kelly
  body: "Advice i was given (but is easier said than done) is ask the client what
    their budget is, even if you have to push them for it. if they wont tell you (and
    they usually wont) then you suggest a very high sum. they will recoil in horror
    and reveal a price, apparently this tends to me more than what you would have
    offered. Dont rip people off. Every client is equal. Dont work for free. Know
    what clients to turn down.\r\n\r\nOprion: great quote, for better or worse, a
    familiar story :-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-31 00:44:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "This thread isn't quite right.\r\n\r\nTo all you professionals who think
    Daniel should charge more, let me ask (if you have a formal training)--was your
    education worth nothing?\r\n\r\nDaniel is a novice designer with no formal education
    and little experience.\r\n\r\nSurely if a \"client\" is starting a business and
    wants to save money wherever possible, it's OK to hire, and nurture, a talented
    and cocky, relative amateur and pay him a minimal amount for what y'all think
    will turn out to be a \"juggernaut of piss and glitter\"?\r\n\r\nHis client's
    advice is quite realistic. Daniel hasn't had the opportunity to build a portfolio
    of student work (at his own expense), so the client is doing him a favour by offering
    to pay for helping develop his portfolio with a real-world project, whereas if
    Daniel had gone to design school, he would have had to pay for developing a portfolio
    of imaginary projects himself. \r\n\r\nWhen you buy services, don't you pay according
    to your perception of the provider's worth, and save money when you can? Don't
    you ever use bundled fonts, freeware, stock photography?\r\n\r\nAs Maynard James
    Keenan put it, \"Before you point your finger..."
  created: '2008-10-31 02:26:32'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "What gets my dander up is that the guy thinks he's doing you a favor (for
    your portfolio) by hiring you at all.\r\n\r\nMy experience (and at this point
    I have quite a lot) is that no job is ever as simple as it seems. I still make
    that mistake - taking a little less than I want just because I think I can do
    the job quickly - and then it turns into a nightmare and you start to really hate
    the client and the job. Based on his condescending notes to you, my guess is that
    he'll be hell to work for.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, you could take him up on
    his offer, do exactly one day's work, take his money and tell him to shove it.
    I wouldn't advise that course though."
  created: '2008-10-31 03:42:01'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "i agree with nick.\r\n\r\nwhile i totally believe you need to charge what
    you are worth, you need to take into account your perceived worth.\r\n\r\ni do
    turn down clients when they won't pay what i'm asking (and my rates are actually
    quite low), and yes, it has cost me some potential work, but it's also saved me
    heaps of stress for work i am not proud of and that does not cover my expenses.\r\n\r\ni
    often have friends asking me to work for free, and most of the time i don't, so
    when they come to me one of my first questions is 'are you willing to pay for
    this?' if they say no, then i say thanks, but no thanks.\r\n\r\ndaniel, i think
    you did the right thing to be upfront about your rates and stick to them, it makes
    life easier working with people who value you and your work, and not having the
    stress of working for people who don't.\r\n\r\nall the best!"
  created: '2008-10-31 04:45:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...his condescending notes to you...</em>\r\n\r\nI don't see that Patty.\r\nHe's
    telling it like it is.\r\nFrom his perspective, it could be a nightmare bringing
    a novice up to speed, but going through that is a price he is prepared to pay,
    if not in money.\r\n\r\n<em>...getting $200 for a $3000 job...</em>\r\n\r\nJames,
    do you think Daniel can provide $3000 worth of value?\r\nWhat client in their
    right mind would pay him a professional rate?\r\nIsn't he the \"uneducated kid
    with a computer\" who drags down the value of design work?\r\n\r\nIt seems to
    me we should be educating clients about the value of working with trained professionals,
    not dissing them for underpaying people with no qualifications or experience.\r\n\r\nDaniel,
    I should say that even without training or experience your work may be brilliant
    and worth $3000, and that's another factor in Simon's idea of \"perceived\" value.\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-31 04:49:32'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Rule of thumb:\r\n\r\nIf you feel that you must do it cheap, and you feel
    (I hope) that your effort is worth more, I suggest that you put a higher price
    written on the invoice, and credit the client with an introductory discount (if
    he's a first time customer), or some other phraseology. \r\n\r\nAsk you accountant,
    for there also may be tax implications as well, to take the amount that you discount
    off you taxable income."
  created: '2008-10-31 10:30:39'
- author:
    name: babyDahl
    picture: 116080
  body: "I am not saying I am not agreeing with what the client is saying, cause I
    am, but even by my standards I felt \xA3200 was low. Yes, I don't have training
    but why should someone have training, are you telling me that every top designer
    is trained. What's wrong with being self taught. I appreciate my client for being
    upfront, and I have learned so much from the experience and have taken all advice
    for next time. I am a shy guy and don't have a great deal of intelligence, had
    problems at school, but have designed since I was 15 and now I am 23. I do own
    a lot of books in graphic design and have mainly learned from these, and loads
    of practice.\r\n\r\nNick - I do have a portfolio to a high standard of work, but
    it could be a lot better in the sense of being more varied. At the moment I am
    teaming up with a fellow designer to launch our own online design agency. He has
    the intelligence which will lend itself to me. I guess I just need a little TLC.
    I also do photography and own a very good DSLR, I also take my own shots for projects,
    I use commercial fonts and have all the software. \r\n\r\npeace."
  created: '2008-10-31 13:07:21'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "babyDahl,\r\n\r\nMany very good graphic artists and graphic designers are
    self-taught. As you point out, you have 8 years of design training and education,
    plus actual practice.\r\n\r\nAs I tried to stress, customers often pay according
    to perception and years of paid experience.\r\n\r\nYou are young. That is a blessing
    in itself, worth much more than getting paid a lot for a job. \r\n\r\nUnfortunately,
    age does work against you; if this is one of your early jobs, customers feel that
    it is worth a smaller amount than you, like a certain \xA3 amount per hour. So,
    the total of \xA3200, divided by the number of hours the customer thinks you needed
    to do the job. \r\n\r\nEven though you may feel its worth a higher amount, I found
    after many years of paid experience, reputation and recommendation is valuable
    more than the money of one job. A happy customer recommends you over and over.
    A good name goes out far and wide. This leads leads to endless more jobs. As time
    goes on, your age and paid experience increases, and you will receive more and
    more for every job. The most important factor is a happy customer."
  created: '2008-10-31 14:42:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>What\u2019s wrong with being self taught.</em>\r\n\r\nNothing.\r\nJames
    Montalbano (Terminal Design) and myself are both self-taught type designers.\r\nMy
    question about the value of a design education was to graphic designers, not so
    much a criticism of you but of client-bashing.\r\n\r\nI'm a member of a professional
    organization, a Registered Graphic Designer, and have been working since before
    digitization. So I'm very familiar with the refrain about uneducated kids with
    computers undercutting the profession, and the characterization of their work
    as \"piss and glitter\"--so I find it strange that when someone such as yourself,
    who would appear to fit that profile, comes along, that the response here is that
    you should \"charge more\", as I don't see a logical connection for that advice.
    \r\n\r\nThis thread is all very abstract until we actually see your work, and
    know how well it's performed."
  created: '2008-10-31 15:35:10'
- author:
    name: jayyy
    picture: 109661
  body: "Daniel,\r\n\r\nAs was said before here, your value is all about perception
    first. This may or may not even be influenced by the quality of your work to date,
    depending on what client you are working with and how design savvy they are.\r\n\r\nIn
    reference to this perceived value you have made a couple of huge mistakes. Firstly,
    you asked HIM to tell YOU how much to pay you! Secondly, your correspondence to
    him was quite unprofessional. This further goes to downgrade your perceived value.\r\n\r\nI
    agree with Nick's comments too - you have no formal design education and a small
    portfolio so you cannot charge $3000 for an identity system because you cannot
    provide that level of service and experience to deliver value on that.\r\n\r\nWhat
    I would have done in this situation is go right in with a price that will pay
    you for your hours. Figure out what a decent hourly rate would be, say \xA315
    per hour (which is $24), and lets say you determine that it is a weeks work for
    you (\xA315 x 40 = \xA3600). Quote him this price and let him know what your rate
    is and that there is no way you can complete the project in less time, nor would
    you work for less than that per hour. Give him a comparison of a professional
    rate, say at \xA335 per hour would be \xA31800.\r\n\r\nIf you always try to compete
    on price, there will always be someone who will undercut you. You must compete
    on value and service and be competitive on price. If someone purely wants to talk
    price, get out."
  created: '2008-10-31 18:40:54'
- author:
    name: timgarnham
    picture: 113878
  body: "<a href=\"http://freelanceswitch.com/rates/\">freelance switch</a>\r\nhas
    a quite useful tool for working out what rates you have to charge- by working
    out your own costs. \r\n\r\nAlso, if you think that your portfolio is a bit thin
    on the ground, then do some projects for your-self.\r\nThese will hopefully be
    executed to the best of your ability, since you should enjoy them. And they will
    also be easy to discuss, because you enjoy them.\r\n\r\nIf you need the money,
    take the work, if you need the work, you will probably be better of doing something
    for yourself, as opposed to a client who under-values your ability.\r\n\r\n-\r\n\r\n[[http://www.zerotwonine.co.uk|zerotwonine]]"
  created: '2008-10-31 20:24:41'
- author:
    name: innovati
    picture: 114494
  body: "oh hi there Nick, when I saw Registered Graphic Designer the first thing
    that popped into my head was RGD?  I was in toronto on Tuesday for DesignThinkers,
    it's a shame I hadn't realized you were in toronto or I could have met you!\r\n\r\nBut
    you raise a number of great points about education versus experience.  I was going
    to point out the RGD as an example of quality assurance.\r\n\r\nIn Ontario Canada,
    where Nick and I live, we have an organization called the RGD, Registered Graphic
    Designers of Ontario.  No, you don't need to have any formal deign education to
    join the RGD, but you must pass a test proving your knowledge is at a certain
    level on-par with our current college design education.\r\n\r\nIt's relatively
    easy and possible for somebody trained elsewhere besides Ontario, to come here
    and take the test and pass and become RGD, just as it's painless for somebody
    with life experience to take the test and become and RGD.\r\n\r\nWhat having that
    title allows you is a bargaining token.  It doesn't matter whether you went to
    school or not, if you're RGD they have some assurances that you do *know* your
    stuff, and you can use that by saying: hey, I'm RGD, what's that worth to you
    to have a tested and proven designer working for you.\r\n\r\nI'm not surewhat
    similar groups or organizations exist where you are, but that might be a sort
    of proof of your skill, as well as some insurance that could make potential clients
    feel reassured that you do know your stuff, even if you don't have an extensive
    portfolio to show them.\r\n\r\nAs for getting a portfolio, I recognize your need
    to eat, and I don't want to discourage you from professional work, but I will
    share a little secret with you.  I have done professional work, school work and
    personal work, and the work I find is often the strongest is the personal work.
    \ Why?  Because I'm more passionate about the charities and causes I'm providing
    the work for.\r\n\r\nI have been involved in a number of open-source projects
    who are starving for designers, you can literally take your pick, but the oppurtunities
    and experience I have gotten in 3 years of open-source development were equal
    to 3 years of professional work in jobs I couldn't get yet.  Game design, UI design
    and software user experience design.\r\n\r\nI would strongly recommend you go
    find a church organization, a charity, a student group at a local school or an
    open-source project that you identify with, and one you feel passionate about,
    and design a few posters, identities, web layouts or whatever they need.\r\n\r\nI
    hope this advice helps, I'm a young designer myself and I'm sure my advice is
    worth pennies compared to some of the greats on this forum :-)"
  created: '2008-10-31 20:35:55'
- author:
    name: amingo
  body: "More than anything, we need to move away from the idea that design is a service
    and see it as a product. We are not selling time. We are selling objects of value
    that, if done well and taken care of, will outlast us all. Every time we agree
    to sell our product for less than what it's worth, we drive down the value of
    design for everyone and give more business to the $50 logo clowns.\r\n\r\nThere
    is nothing wrong with giving a price break from time to time but your estimate
    should reflect the application of that discount so that the true value of the
    product is known and future expectations are set. Set up a standard discount for
    start-up companies or non-profit organizations and stick to it. Establish a top-of-the-head
    average price point for basic products so that you can speak confidently about
    it when asked.\r\n\r\nKeep in mind, too, that every hour you spend working on
    an undervalued job is an hour lost that could be spent on something of value.
    There is nothing worse than giving up a weekend to a client that doesn't respect
    your time and talent.\r\n\r\nFinally, check out one of the many pricing guidelines
    available. My personal favorite has been the \"Pricing & Ethical Guidelines Handbook\",
    published yearly by the Graphic Arts Guild. It will answer just about any question
    you can throw at it and will give you the insight and confidence you need to talk
    about pricing and process with clients.\r\n\r\nGood luck!\r\n\r\n\r\nTM\u2122"
  created: '2008-10-31 21:33:37'
- author:
    name: amingo
  body: "More than anything, we need to move away from the idea that design is a service
    and see it as a product. We are not selling time. We are selling objects of value
    that, if done well and taken care of, will outlast us all. Every time we agree
    to sell our product for less than what it's worth, we drive down the value of
    design for everyone and give more business to the $50 logo clowns.\r\n\r\nThere
    is nothing wrong with giving a price break from time to time but your estimate
    should reflect the application of that discount so that the true value of the
    product is known and future expectations are set. Set up a standard discount for
    start-up companies or non-profit organizations and stick to it. Establish a top-of-the-head
    average price point for basic products so that you can speak confidently about
    it when asked.\r\n\r\nKeep in mind, too, that every hour you spend working on
    an undervalued job is an hour lost that could be spent on something of value.
    There is nothing worse than giving up a weekend to a client that doesn't respect
    your time and talent.\r\n\r\nFinally, check out one of the many pricing guidelines
    available. My personal favorite has been the \"Pricing & Ethical Guidelines Handbook\",
    published yearly by the Graphic Arts Guild. It will answer just about any question
    you can throw at it and will give you the insight and confidence you need to talk
    about pricing and process with clients.\r\n\r\nGood luck!\r\n\r\n\r\nTM\u2122"
  created: '2008-10-31 21:33:58'
- author:
    name: babyDahl
    picture: 116080
  body: "Nick, if you want to see my work, please check my web siteand behance portfolio
    at \r\n\r\nhttp://babydahl.co.uk \r\nhttp://behance.net/babydahl \r\n\r\nI'm not
    just a guy with a computer, i'm very serious as to where my design is concerned.\r\n\r\nPeace."
  created: '2008-11-01 01:10:06'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I remember getting some really great pricing advice from a NYC Illustrator
    back in the mid 80s. \r\n\r\n...remainder redacted..."
  created: '2008-11-01 18:34:13'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I had the opportunity to know and work with John Peters, the late great magazine
    consultant.\r\n\r\n ...remainder redacted..."
  created: '2008-11-01 18:34:31'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Nick,\r\n\r\nIf he is just a guy with a computer trying to get some design
    work then f#@k him. Just another chuckle head in a world of chuckle heads.\r\n\r\n...remainder
    redacted..."
  created: '2008-11-01 18:35:14'
- author:
    name: web_tech
  body: "Hi Dahl,\r\n\r\nIt's very difficult to say that how much you should charge.
    You should see work and decide yourself that how much time it will take to finish
    then you can quote the right amount for the work. Hope this will help you.\r\n\r\nThanks,
    kunal\r\n<a href=\"http://www.web-designer-india.com/\"> Web Designer India </a>"
  created: '2008-11-03 06:49:30'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: ^ Has web_tech's account been hijacked or is he just a spammer?
  created: '2008-11-03 15:15:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Nice try James, but your clients will still be able to track down your indiscretions
    on internet archives...
  created: '2008-11-03 18:23:05'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "FWIW, I\u2019m going to side with Nick. When I was posting before I assumed
    that Dahl was a young professional and not someone starting from scratch. With
    no school or professional work under one\u2019s belt, getting <em>any</em> paying
    work is a big deal."
  created: '2008-11-03 18:39:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Just to clarify my position, I don't think there are any villains here.\r\nLike
    the man said, \"if I'm the man, then you're the man, and he's the man as well...\"
    --which is to say that in business much is negotiable by everyone and all parties,
    and the bottom line is the bottom line.\r\nSo I don't find the attitude of BabyDoll's
    client insulting, it's just a negotiating position.\r\nIt would be an insult to
    someone with a design education or more experience, but that's a hypothetical
    unreality.\r\nFrom his standpoint, to maximize his remuneration, Daniel can make
    the case for the quality of his work and his commitment."
  created: '2008-11-03 19:04:58'
date: '2008-10-28 13:57:52'
title: How much do I charge my client???

---
