---
author:
  name: SuperUltraFabulous
  picture: 111522
body: "http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/bergsland/artichoke/\r\n\r\nI saw this on myfonts,
  read the blurb at the bottom, and there's no reference to Chris Costello.\r\n\r\nIf
  you compare this Artichoke and Papyrus there are essentially the same face.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.costelloart.com/papyrus.html\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/letraset/papyrus/familytree.html\r\n\r\nFoul
  play?\r\n\r\nMikey :-|"
comments:
- author:
    name: Katharina
    picture: 112995
  body: With some tinkering.
  created: '2008-10-31 15:58:13'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: 'Identical: no. A blatant rip-off: unquestionably. He does add an italic.
    But since the price is marked WAY down my guess is nobody''s buying.'
  created: '2008-10-31 16:49:01'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: No one would dare clone Papyrus and risk "The Mummy's Curse" would they?
  created: '2008-10-31 16:56:52'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/papyrus_4084.png]\r\n\r\nDerivative,
    but not identical. What I can't get, is why anyone would go through the trouble
    of creating something like that.\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2008-10-31 17:09:12'
- author:
    name: Kottis
  body: "Looking at that sample i notice that the \xABnotches\xBB on every letter
    seem to be in the same place\u2026or am i wrong? The Artichoke sample is a little
    blurry, but it's pretty evident in the stem of \xABt\xBB. The \xABs\xBB seems
    a dead giveaway too. "
  created: '2008-10-31 17:24:28'
- author:
    name: cjLaughlin
  body: "Kottis is right, if it was uniquely created, you would think the notches
    would at least be in different places.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-31 17:30:00'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "And when I mean they are essentially the same face, I mean that Papyrus was
    plopped in an outline editor and out came Artichoke.\r\n\r\nTo Patty Fab... Bergsland
    refers to Artichoke as a strong seller.\r\nhttp://bergsland.org/fonts2006-07.htm\r\n\r\nMikey
    :-("
  created: '2008-10-31 17:46:03'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>What I can\u2019t get, is why anyone would go through the trouble of
    creating something like that.</cite>\r\n\r\nTo make money, of course. Myfonts
    has many customers who are no professional designers. They can be fooled easily.
    And if you set the price low enoiugh, those fonts will sell. \r\n\r\nHere is an
    overlay (with the change in  weight removed):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Bild-26_3520.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
    really wish MyFonts would check all new releases for rip-offs.  There are enough
    experts out there, even among the MyFonts staff, who could spot these rip-offs
    easily. "
  created: '2008-10-31 17:54:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It looks like they just squooshed Papyrus about ten percent and overtightened
    the sidebearings, then chopped the ascenders a bit.. It looks like the guy figured
    15 minutes of work might gain him a few bucks for a while.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-10-31 18:12:15'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: 'Well at least he acknowledges he ripped someone off. This is the selling
    copy: The roots of this font are obvious, but it is a radical reworking into a
    full 650 glyph OpenType Pro font design with many changes made to make it more
    readable, and easier to use in a standard text setting.'
  created: '2008-10-31 19:00:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"standard text setting\"\r\n\r\nHuh? Yup, now it is a text face!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-10-31 19:21:09'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "Naturally!\r\n\"It is designed for text use in body copy.\"\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2008-10-31 20:24:50'
- author:
    name: solfeggio
    picture: 112465
  body: "Egad! Now Papyrus will never die. It's begun to spawn mutants! \r\n\r\n<em>Happy
    Halloween ;)</em>"
  created: '2008-10-31 20:25:57'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Huh? Yup, now it is a text face!\r\n\r\nHave you ever read a spa flyer?
    The \"waxing\" list alone often runs to two pages. ;-)\r\n\r\n>it is a radical
    reworking into a full 650 glyph OpenType Pro font design with many changes \r\n\r\nExactly!
    Brazilian support is a must."
  created: '2008-10-31 20:28:05'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>The \u201Cwaxing\u201D list alone often runs to two pages.</cite>\r\n\r\nWow,
    I just learned more about Simon\u2019s private life than I ever wanted too\u2026"
  created: '2008-10-31 20:56:16'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Let me tell you about the horrors of papyrus.\r\n\r\nMy wife liked it, so
    she started growing it in the small pond in front of the house. But it won't survive
    North Carolina winters outdoors, so we have to move it into the house during the
    winter months. It lives in water, so we have one of the few houses in a colder
    climate with year-long mosquitoes. Indoors. Also, when a stalk falls over, the
    cats like to chew on the leaves. Then they throw up.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-31 21:01:48'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: Charles, does this papyrus-growing mean you're thinking of going back to older
    publishing technologies? :)
  created: '2008-10-31 21:23:36'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">My wife liked it, so she started growing...\r\n\r\nMaybe it was drying it
    and smoking it and then posting to typophile that was the bad idea? ;-)\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-31 22:04:06'
- author:
    name: acnapyx
    picture: 113394
  body: "For me the important question here is: should we judge Mr. Bergsland as harsh
    as the Gasoligne guys, for example? And should we bring in again the discussion
    about the originality of type designs?\r\n\r\nOr maybe David himself would explain
    the similarities?"
  created: '2008-11-01 01:53:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I would not judge this person as harshly as Gasoligne. This person made no
    attempt to hide the copying. Also, everyone on earth already has Papyrus due to
    bundling so no profits were siphoned away. I would perhaps question the logic
    in bothering to do it and assume this person is not in possession of sufficient
    business sense to be able to see the futility of his actions. He may have built
    it but nobody is coming.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-11-01 04:05:14'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Chris> No one professional at least, but I still think if you make even a
    dime off of stealing someone else's work the original designer should get a cut
    or all your profits.\r\n\r\nMikey :-)"
  created: '2008-11-01 17:04:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I agree with you, Mikey.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-11-01 18:59:54'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Has anyone notified MyFonts?
  created: '2008-11-01 19:38:54'
- author:
    name: Stephen Rapp
    picture: 111901
  body: "MyFonts is good on their word when something is brought to their attention.
    but beyond that I don't think there is much attention given to the checking the
    originality of designs. I suspect there are a lot of fonts on the site that are
    of questionable origins. \r\n\r\nI was looking at a font of Lettering Delights
    a while back on MyFonts and so I followed the links to the LD site. Turns out
    there were several recognizable fonts there including P22 Dearest, T26 Lassigue
    D'mato, and my own Shoebop (with Veer). When I emailed the company the web person
    removed them and the \"CEO\" emailed me saying he would comply with my request
    to remove them and look into the matter with their font guy. I don't know who
    was making fonts for them, but at $3 retail they definitely aren't labored over.\r\n\r\nStephen"
  created: '2008-11-01 23:14:42'
- author:
    name: Bergsland
    picture: 116137
  body: "In answer to the original question, the roots are obvious. My hope is that
    it is an example of the sincerest form of flattery. It comes from a fresh trace
    and it is modified quite a bit as an exercise in making a font I couldn't use
    into one that I now use all the time. Yes, it has sold some (a few dozen copies),
    but it is certainly no threat to Papyrus. \r\n\r\nI'm releasing one next week
    that is a tracing of a printed page of Erasmus, one of Solo's old display fonts.
    It too is heavily modified (and it is only part of a new study on making a book
    font family I can actually use). I really like it and I am making it mine while
    tearing it apart to try and see why it is so attractive to me.\r\n\r\nHere are
    some comments on  why I did Artichoke:\r\n\r\n1. Seeing how Chris did it.\r\n\r\n2.
    Make a font I could actually use\r\n\r\n3. Yes, I did spend a ridiculous amount
    of time on it. Well over a hundred hours, as I recall.\r\n\r\n4. Yes, I am pleased
    with the result. I use the font often and I can not use Papyrus much as is is
    because it is missing too many crucial things for me: my normal OpenType set with
    small caps, lining, oldstyle and small cap figures, and so on\r\n\r\nI hope it
    is not too offensive to you all. It is not a nefarious plot. Myfonts only approved
    it after they saw my original tracings. It is certainly not an attempt to make
    money on Chris. It will probably end up in a new display font eventually. Remember,
    I'm just an old graphic designer hack who is very surprised that his font designs
    actually sell.\r\n\r\nThanks for your time,\r\nDavid Bergsland\r\n\r\nFont designer,
    graphic designer, writer\r\nhttp://bergsland.org\r\nhttp://bergsland.blogspot.com/"
  created: '2008-11-02 14:04:13'
- author:
    name: luciamenendez
    picture: 115239
  body: They are both ulgy.
  created: '2008-11-02 14:52:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: " Quite true, Lucia, I agree. The trouble is, we have no right to prevent
    production of type designs we dislike. We do have a right to prevent taking someone's
    intellectual property (good or bad) and using it for profit--however meager that
    profit. I certainly hope Mr Bergsland requested and received permission from the
    original designer and foundry before beginning his tracing and copying. Perhaps
    Mr Bergsland would be better served to create truly original designs. He might
    then see that a mere 100 hours is nothing when it comes to type design.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-11-02 15:22:21'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: ">Perhaps Mr Bergsland would be better served to create truly original designs.
    He might then see that a mere 100 hours is nothing when it comes to type design.\r\n\r\nOr
    vintage fonts that have not yet been digitized. \r\n\r\nReworking Papyrus certainly
    seems to me like an exercise in futility. I can't imagine why one would rework
    one of the world's most overused fonts in order to USE IT MORE. Yet, that's a
    personal choice, however strange. Profiting from it... seems a bit sleazy to me.\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-02 17:58:30'
- author:
    name: boardman
    picture: 110337
  body: Is it double double indemnity when someone copies a horrible font, makes it
    worse, sells it, AND has poor taste?
  created: '2008-11-03 03:07:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It is kind of like stealing someone's farts, cloning them and then charging
    people to smell them :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-11-03 03:18:52'
- author:
    name: solfeggio
    picture: 112465
  body: "Above, Mr. Bergsland claims Artichoke \"has sold <em>some</em> (a few dozen
    copies)\" whereas on his website he advises us: \"Be sure to check out the releases
    of the past two years. They include the <em>most popular fonts I've ever released</em>&mdash;
    Brinar & Artichoke,\" and elsewhere there, Artichoke is termed \"another <em>strong
    seller</em>\" (all emphases mine). \r\n\r\nA disconnect? Misleading, perhaps?
    Well, maybe not: If his \"strong seller\" has sold \"a few dozen copies\" only,
    perhaps the others are by comparison downright dormant. Deservedly so, if that's
    the case, for in casting a glance over his displayed wares one is hard pressed
    not to notice there's more than a mere whiff of familiarity to them all. \"Derivative\"
    alone won't cut it. \r\n\r\nSo much the worse for us all &mdash; not to mention
    easily gulled consumers.\r\n\r\nChrisL has it spot on: \"Mr Bergsland would be
    better served to create truly original designs.\"\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-03 03:58:04'
- author:
    name: cslem1
  body: "I do know that in an advanced typography course, one of our assignments were
    to take two fonts (that we did extensive research on for the first 3 months) and
    make a hybrid font. This of course was only an exercise, and was in no way meant
    for us to call this our own design. it was rather to see how letterforms were
    proportioned to one another, and to come out of it with a new product. This just
    sounds very similar, just this guy decided to see if he could sell his. But eh,
    it someone buys it, then they aren't worried about quality let alone design.\r\n\r\ncourtney"
  created: '2008-11-03 14:26:49'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"their font guy\"\r\n\r\nI'm so glad to hear that MyFonts has at least one
    'font guy' on staff. ;0)"
  created: '2008-11-03 15:12:31'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "@Bergsland:\r\n\r\n<em>In answer to the original question, the roots are
    obvious. My hope is that it is an example of the sincerest form of flattery.</em>\r\n\r\nYour
    hope is vain in the extreme. You are not fooling anybody here. What you hope people
    will see as \"imitation\" is in fact plagiarism, a knock-off, a rip-off of somebody
    else's typeface design. Call it what it is.\r\n\r\n<em>It comes from a fresh trace
    and it is modified quite a bit as an exercise in making a font I couldn\u2019t
    use into one that I now use all the time.</em>\r\n\r\nWhether you steal a digital
    font's outlines directly by importing the font file into Fontlab, or whether you
    auto-trace a print of the same font, makes no difference to me. I won't claim
    to speak for how others here see the two methods, but I see both methods as theft
    and theft only.\r\n\r\n<em>Yes, it has sold some (a few dozen copies), but it
    is certainly no threat to Papyrus.</em>\r\n\r\nA paper-thin justification. That
    it isn't shooting up the starlets or best sellers charts does not justify your
    plagiarism.\r\n\r\n<em>I\u2019m releasing one next week that is a tracing of a
    printed page of Erasmus, one of Solo\u2019s old display fonts. It too is heavily
    modified (and it is only part of a new study on making a book font family I can
    actually use). I really like it and I am making it mine while tearing it apart
    to try and see why it is so attractive to me.</em>\r\n\r\nYour methods of font
    production are, at a minimum, very questionable. Certainly it cannot be deemed
    \"typeface design\". IHacking other people's fonts and calling the resulting violation
    your own is plagiarism. Your methods of font production amount to the kind of
    ass-clownery that gives our industry a bad name. I am stopping short of making
    an ad hominem personal attack on you David, an argument against you as a person.
    Instead I ridicule your working methods and pour icy cold water on your plagiarized
    fonts and lack of ethics.\r\n\r\n<em>I hope it is not too offensive to you all.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    am disgusted by it. Please remove your Artichoke font from the market and destoy
    all copies and work files.\r\n\r\n<em>It is not a nefarious plot. Myfonts only
    approved it after they saw my original tracings. It is certainly not an attempt
    to make money on Chris. It will probably end up in a new display font eventually.
    Remember, I\u2019m just an old graphic designer hack who is very surprised that
    his font designs actually sell.</em>\r\n\r\n(much laughter!) As if saying that
    is supposed to redeem you or somehow appease your peers. I'm not moved, not even
    by a fraction of an em. Remove Artichoke from your website and remove it from
    Myfonts before several other font makers and I start lobbying John Collins and
    Laurnece Penney to have it removed from Myfonts for you.\r\n\r\nOh yes, I'll do
    it too (lobby Myfonts). You can put money of that.\r\n\r\n@Darrel: <em>I\u2019m
    so glad to hear that MyFonts has at least one \u2019font guy\u2019 on staff. ;0)</em>\r\n\r\nI
    guess you're joking at least a little there. For the record, Myfonts employ several
    very well-informed and experienced font people. Laurence Penney and John Collins
    are just two of them.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-11-03 15:45:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Personally, I don''t understand why MyFonts allowed this. I don''t think
    they should have. '
  created: '2008-11-03 15:55:21'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "David Bergsland: Shame on you.\r\nMyFonts: Shame on you too."
  created: '2008-11-03 16:13:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I agree, Bill, I never understood that tracing thing. I can understand in
    a revival where you go back to a Letterpress printed page of a historic typeface.
    I don't understand it for a current face designed as digital. What is the point?
    Certainly, the quality of the outlines is quite bad so it is no improvement over
    the original. While I don't care for the original Papyrus, at least is is a competent
    drawing. This Artichoke thing is just crap. This is the kind of thing that can
    give MyFonts a bad name.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-11-03 16:23:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "MyFonts follows the letter of the law. As long as there is no \"point piracy\",
    it's OK.\r\nIf they had to make judgement calls on derivative fonts, they would
    continually be in contentious situations.\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-03 16:36:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I guess you are right, Nick. They would then need a fleet of \"Lawyer Guys\"
    and then could not afford a \"Font Guy\" :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-11-03 16:39:04'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I agree, Bill, I never understood that tracing thing. I can understand
    in a revival where you go back to a Letterpress printed page of a historic typeface.\"\r\n\r\nI
    have trouble seeing a clear line between the two.\r\n\r\nIt seems that if one
    just uses the term 'revival' to begin with, they can save some time fighting those
    that claim it to be theft.\r\n\r\nGranted, in this case, if there were no permissions
    granted, I'd have to side with this being a lazy remake of a known, current, protected
    typeface.\r\n\r\nBut many many fonts have been created from doing just the same...tracing
    a classic instance of type found in the wild on a sign, in lead, on wood (in fact,
    I've created fonts that way), etc.\r\n\r\nPerhaps that's where the line is drawn...copying
    a typeface that has already been made into a digital font leans towards theft.
    Copying a typeface found on a box in an antique store leans towards 'revival'. "
  created: '2008-11-03 17:08:30'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "Dez: <em>It is kind of like stealing someone\u2019s farts, cloning them and
    then charging people to smell them :-)</em>\r\n\r\nG R O S S !"
  created: '2008-11-03 17:08:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Sorry, Fredrik, It was a weak moment. Perhaps not the right image for most
    folks to care to visualize :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-11-03 17:45:08'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "I would be surprised if every toy shop owner individually tested each toy
    he or she puts up on sale. This is simply not feasible. \r\n\r\nBut please be
    assured that we at MyFonts always review cases immediately whenever there is a
    complaint (no matter whether the complaint came from the party who claims that
    their rights have been infringed, or from someone else). Our policy is to remove
    the font from sales temporarily until the issue is resolved. \r\n\r\nHowever,
    when it comes to fresh digital versions of typeface designs that some people view
    as derivative (such as Adobe's Myriad, FontFont's City Street Type, Linotype's
    Basic Commercial, Monotype's Arial or quite a few faces from the Bitstream library),
    we employ industry standards, which, well, are not perfect. \r\n\r\nI should also
    stress that in any case, the original rights owner always has the options to follow
    the conflict resolution path widely accepted in civilized countries, i.e. a court
    of law. \r\n\r\nBest regards,\r\nAdam Twardoch\r\nMyFonts typographic consultant\r\n\r\nPs.
    Thanks to William Berkson for bringing this thread to our attention. "
  created: '2008-11-03 18:44:33'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">a court of law. \r\n\r\nThat has some problems, as does the more popular
    \"court of public opinion\". It would be nice to have third court made up of industry
    leaders that could give disputed new designs an originality rating.\r\n\r\nI'm
    thinking something modeled after this...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/250px-BarbossaCourt_6533.jpg]\r\n\r\nWho
    would be on the \u201CBrethren Court\u201D and who would be King? "
  created: '2008-11-03 20:22:48'
- author:
    name: solfeggio
    picture: 112465
  body: "<em>\"... and who would be King?\"</em>\r\n\r\nDavid Berlow, of course &mdash;
    and that's even if we have to draft him!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-03 21:03:25'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">Myfonts only approved it after they saw my original tracings\r\n\r\nOriginal
    tracings? I may not know much about the font industry but I can clearly say that
    tracing someone else's work is not very original or creative. \r\n\r\n>100 hours\r\n\r\nThis
    is no time at all for a type designer.\r\n\r\n>I\u2019m just an old graphic designer
    hack who is very surprised that his font designs actually sell\r\n\r\nAs we all
    are."
  created: '2008-11-03 22:39:43'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: Dezcom made me spit coffee all over my screen.
  created: '2008-11-04 00:26:03'
- author:
    name: chrissam42
    picture: 109770
  body: "I just wanted to point out for the record here that Stephen's reference to
    the \"font guy\" thing was referring to Lettering Delights and not MyFonts!\r\n\r\n>
    I followed the links to the LD site....\r\n> When I emailed the company the web
    person removed them...\r\n> ...and look into the matter with their font guy.\r\n\r\n-ChrisL
    #2, MyFonts Webmaster in full defense mode ;)"
  created: '2008-11-04 01:43:14'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "After listening to Adams corporate boilerplate I kind of think Mr. Costello\u2019s
    opinion should matter the most...\r\n\r\nShouldn\u2019t Chris Costello be notified?\r\n\r\nMike
    Diaz"
  created: '2008-11-04 06:22:19'
- author:
    name: solfeggio
    picture: 112465
  body: "Mike: <em>\"Shouldn\u2019t Chris Costello be notified?\"</em>\r\n\r\nFor
    my part, an e-mail's been sent. Add your voice independently if you wish. There's
    contact info on his website (the URL for which was mentioned in the original posting
    above).\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-04 06:48:04'
- author:
    name: fi
    picture: 113733
  body: 'This thread delivers. '
  created: '2008-11-04 08:51:42'
- author:
    name: fi
    picture: 113733
  body: 'This thread delivers. '
  created: '2008-11-04 08:51:53'
- author:
    name: chrisc
  body: "Hi Guys\u2026 Chris Costello here,\r\n\r\nThanks for the emails. I suppose
    now is a good time to chime in.\r\n\r\nThis is not new. Check out my Rouge\u2019s
    Gallery of Type Design Thieves:\r\n\r\nRip-off: Parchment \u201Cby Rick Mueller\u201D
    \r\nhttp://www.fontspace.com/rick-mueller/parchment-mf\r\n100% counterfeit free
    font\u2026why?\r\n\r\nRip-off: Fidelma, \u201CDesigned by Patricia Lillie\u201D:
    http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/lillie/fidelma/\r\nA complete bastardization of Papyrus
    that retains only wisps of the original feel.\r\n\r\nRip-off: Ereshkigal \u201CDesigned
    by David Nalle\u201D and sold by Scriptorium http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/scriptorium/ereshkigal/\r\nSee
    below for more of David\u2019s original work\u2026\r\n\r\nOriginal design by Chris
    Costello: Blackstone: http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/chriscostello/blackstone/ \r\nDuring
    my \u201CJagged Edge Period 1983-88\u201D :) \r\n\r\nRip-off: Gaiseric, \u201CDesigned
    by David Nalle\u201D and sold by Scriptorium http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/scriptorium/gaiseric/\r\n\r\nMr.
    David Bergsland has now earned himself a place of honor as the most recent member
    of this fellowship. \r\n\r\nWith the love/hate thing that swirls around Papyrus
    set aside, the font is still, without question, a completely unique and original
    design\u2026 there is nothing else like it in the world, except for these poorly
    executed fakes. I used no references, \u201Ctracings\u201D or other crutches to
    create it\u2026 Papyrus simply came forth from a flurry of hand-drawn sketches
    (I still have the original doodles). As a professional illustrator and graphic
    designer, I really consider myself an amateur font designer. I do not have many
    fonts available for sale and I am just learning FontLab. It just so happens that
    the few fonts I have designed turned out to be hot sellers and are thus widely
    imitated. With the exception of Letterpress Text (a respectful tribute to the
    classics), every font that I have created is entirely original. \r\n\r\n\u201CArtichoke\u201D?
    Please, David\u2026 I\u2019m just not flattered anymore. This is an argument that
    has angered true type designers since the advent of the computer and the accessibility
    of font software to just about anybody. You obviously input Papyrus, moved a few
    points here, a few transformations there and output \u201CArtichoke\u201D. Papyrus,
    like any original font design, does not need to be improved\u2026 it is pretty
    much what the designer intended it to be and does not require the touch of an
    \u201Cold hack\u201D \u201Cto make it more readable, and easier to use\u201D.
    If you feel the need to customize it for your own use that\u2019s fine, but repackaging
    it and selling it under a different name is cheap, opportunistic and wrong. \r\n\r\nBut
    it\u2019s not the money issue that bothers me. I sold the rights to market Papyrus
    to ITC a long time ago and my royalty payments are modest. You are siphoning more
    of their revenue than mine, and I have informed them of your actions. What bothers
    me and many others is that you find this practice of \u201Ctracing\u201D, \u201Cderiving\u201D
    or otherwise copying other peoples work then passing it of as your own to be perfectly
    fine. Is this what you teach to your students? Do you address this subject in
    your books? \r\n\r\n\u201CArtichoke started with adding a roughened, light edge
    to the character widths of my popular humanist sans font families.\u201D\r\n\r\nWere
    you implying that you added the rough edges or are you giving me credit for the
    rough edges I created on the original?\r\n\r\n\u201CI was trying to create the
    light, airy feel of hand-scribed letters on a rough natural surface.\u201D\r\n\r\nReally?
    I\u2019m sorry if I did I not do a good enough job creating the light, airy feel
    the first time around.\r\n\r\n\"I did spend a ridiculous amount of time on it.
    Well over a hundred hours, as I recall.\"\r\n\r\nWhy in the world would anyone
    spend this much time being redundant? Could the answer be found in the following
    quote:\r\n\r\n\u201CDavid started to design fonts for sale rather than for self
    entertainment.\u201D\r\n\r\nSomebody also mentioned earlier that 100 hours is
    nothing for a true type designer. Very true! I spent months handcrafting the original,
    and have spent countless hours digitizing my other hand-drawn fonts. You have
    done nothing here worthy of respect. There is not much I can do legally to stop
    you from what you are doing, but ethically speaking, you need to stop selling
    \u201CArtichoke\u201D and simply keep it for your own use. \r\n\r\nI confronted
    the \u201Cdesigner\u201D of \u201CFidelma\u201D and she swore up and down it was
    not a rip-off. You cannot argue with someone who does not hold on to reason. I
    respectfully asked David Nalle to stop selling \u201CEreshkigal\u201D and \u201CGaiseric\u201D
    but got no reply. Sadly, this issue of stealing intellectual property speaks volumes
    about the \u201CSomething-for-Nothing\u201D culture that has been cultivated by
    the Baby Boomers over the past three decades. As I segue into social commentary
    mode, check out this quote from a charged and very revealing article below:\r\n\r\n\u201CThis
    generation lacks self control, morals, a work ethic, and savings ethic. Based
    on the recent actions of our government and corporate leaders, we seem to lack
    any ethics at all.\u201D\r\n\r\nhttp://www.speroforum.com/site/article.asp?id=16602\r\n\r\nI\u2019ll
    leave it at that. This is a font forum. My rants on pop culture, U.S. foreign
    policy, the economy and politics can be found elsewhere. \r\n\r\nIf you are going
    to call yourself a designer, then design\u2026 don\u2019t simply imitate, then
    profit from the hard work of others. \r\n"
  created: '2008-11-04 22:16:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Bravo, Chris Costello!\r\n\r\nWhile I readily admit that I am not fond of
    your typeface I also fervently state that it is truly yours and should not be
    open to thieves and pirates to pretend is theirs. I hope that Bergsland willingly
    removes his atrocious pirated version from sale or distribution. \r\nYou are right,
    too many people think that because something is easy to steal that they somehow
    are granted license to do so. \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-11-04 22:45:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Well said, Mr Costello.
  created: '2008-11-04 23:14:46'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Chris Costello thank you! I appreciate your sentiments. \r\n\r\nWhile Papyrus
    may be over used. It is still original. If someone wanted to make a new spin off
    it why not consult the original designer? But no, Bergsland strident attitude
    did not make room for the high road.\r\n\r\nYes, ethic and morals have gone down
    the tubes. Unfortunately its not limited to the indies either- its even prevalent
    at the corporate level. \r\n\r\nFake:\r\nhttp://www.linotype.com/304434/ginkgo-family.html\r\n\r\nReal:\r\nhttp://www.underware.nl/site2/index.php?id1=dolly&id2=roman\r\n\r\nPeople
    that work with type and appreciate the real thing will never go for these fakes.
    Its really so sad for the forgers because their reputations get tarnish and then
    they have not a whole lot left over in the end. Sad for them.\r\n\r\nMike :-)\r\n\r\nCAN\u2019T
    WE JUST KEEP IT REAL?"
  created: '2008-11-04 23:47:51'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "I would like to inform you that MyFonts has removed the Artichoke font from
    sale, further steps pending. Thank you for bringing the matter to our attention
    and for your valuable input. \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam Twardoch\r\nMyFonts typographic
    consultant\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-05 03:56:14'
- author:
    name: solfeggio
    picture: 112465
  body: "That's a solid step in the right direction. Let's hope MyFonts also takes
    into consideration Chris Costello's remarks on the other rip-offs of his work
    that are presently being sold through MyFonts. I think his comments should be
    construed as a clear complaint. \r\n\r\nIf not, why not consider this posting
    of mine a complaint? After all, Adam, you said it: \"we at MyFonts always review
    cases immediately whenever there is a complaint (no matter whether the complaint
    came from the party who claims that their rights have been infringed, or from
    someone else).\"\r\n\r\nIn my view, action on such obvious cases can only work
    to further enhance the standing of MyFonts among the broader community of designers
    / vendors.\r\n\r\nLet's all hope for a quick, equitable resolution of this particular
    situation.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-05 04:47:55'
- author:
    name: alanw
  body: "All seriousness aside, along with an indesign tutorial where he recommends
    vertically and horizontally scaling type because \"otherwise the words will seem
    to disappear\" (http://bergsland.org/pneumatika/indesigntutorials/1-indesign.html),
    does anyone not find this list of 'party supplies' to be a little bizarre?\r\n\r\nhttp://bergsland.org/pneumatika/indesigntutorials/3-indesign.html\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/3rd-01_5661.gif]"
  created: '2008-11-05 10:22:41'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "<em>does anyone not find this list of \u2019party supplies\u2019 to be a
    little bizarre?</em>\r\n\r\nYup, I supposed even the US had adopted the Metric
    System by now :)"
  created: '2008-11-05 11:50:24'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: Well, not that it takes great effort, but someone sure knows how to party
    harder than me.
  created: '2008-11-05 12:11:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I am delighted to see this, Adam. \r\n\r\nI hope this will be a continuing
    policy, and that it will mark some new professional standards on this issue of
    copying. Not law, but professional standards. \r\n\r\nI do think that the cases
    you mentioned are arguably either quite different from this case, or are now moot.
    \ \r\n\r\nFirst of all, with the consolidation of Monotype and Linotype, many
    of the most egregious copying cases, such as Arial and Helvetica, are now moot,
    as they have common ownership.  \r\n\r\nAs to Bitstream, those faces were a product
    of the anarchy of the initial period of change to a new technology. As I understand
    it, the leader of the type division of Linotype was fired, and not allowed to
    digitize those faces, some of which he had directed development of. He and others
    founded Bitstream, the first digital typefoundry, and digitized what had been
    hot metal faces, most of them classics by long dead designers. Then Linotype did
    their own versions. And Bitstream is now giving proper credit, as I understand
    it. \r\n\r\nI really don't think Myriad vs Frutiger is in the same class as these.
    Myriad is heavily indebted to Frutiger, but it is a systematically thought out
    new design, with new terminals and curves, a softer aesthetic, and new italics
    and condensed versions. \r\n\r\nIn any case, these issues were \"litigated\" in
    the court of public opinion before MyFonts came into existence, so it is understandable
    that MyFonts wouldn't take up these issues. And, of course, they are part of Bitstream.
    \ \r\n\r\nThe kind of copying and clumsy manipulation that this case represents
    really shouldn't get over the bar at MyFonts. I hope your decision here sets a
    policy that even if legal such clearly unethical practices won't be allowed to
    run rampant at what I suppose is the leading reseller of fonts. "
  created: '2008-11-05 15:02:19'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">he recommends vertically and horizontally scaling type\r\n\r\nThat explains
    the bad job he's done condensing the proportions of Papyrus without looking at
    the stroke widths and contrast"
  created: '2008-11-05 19:39:08'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Mike there are others fonts much more similar to Dolly than that. '
  created: '2008-11-05 22:07:50'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Hi Tiff: \r\n\r\nReally cause\u2019 very little looks modified from the original
    Dolly. The upswung ear on the letter g looks reduced from Dolly\u2019s bold. He
    changed the a and made a few other touches but its resounding Dolly.\r\n\r\nWhat
    other faces are close to the Dolly than this Ginkgo?\r\n\r\nMikey :-)"
  created: '2008-11-05 23:54:40'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Hi Chris, nice to get some sense of the guy who did Papyrus. Contrary to
    a lot of others I really like P \u2014\_it is an original. Eight or nine years
    ago (somewhere during mayor relationship number 2) I designed an identity for
    a local restaurant with P. Never got paid, because they went back on the deal.
    But \u2014 I still see P a lot where I am, so if you would like to start a Hall
    of Fame on your site (or a Hall of Sh\u2026) I would gladly take some pictures
    and mail them to you,\r\n\r\n.. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2008-11-06 00:34:47'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Tiff, there are a lot of Dollies around nowadays \u2014 it\u2019s like those
    skinny jeans. One brands ignites a lot of others. And presto: you get to look
    at a lot of slightly overweight bare mids. Or worse (I try avoid my eyes and have
    seen a lot of sky the last couple of years). Thank Obama, my GF has a good sense
    of fashion. she prefers highwaisted jeans. BTW he is a brilliant photographer.\r\n\r\n.
    . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2008-11-06 00:40:19'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: Dederon what else?
  created: '2008-11-06 01:26:42'
- author:
    name: solfeggio
    picture: 112465
  body: For those who might not have noticed, not only is "Artichoke" now removed
    from MyFonts and Fonts.com, but also Mr. Bergsland has removed it from his site.
    Positive stuff all ... if it's not mere interim measures or a tactical eyewash.
    Watch and pray, as it were.
  created: '2008-11-06 07:25:44'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Thanks Adam and thank you solfeggio for the report. Much appreciated.\r\n\r\nI
    think David Bergsland has a conscience and we should extend to him the kind of
    respect and good will we would expect to be extended to ourselves. I call upon
    typophilers to show restraint in the following ways:\r\n* stop hammering David
    now, this one is over\r\n* give David a second chance, so to speak\r\n* stop calling
    him \"Mr. Bergsland\" because it's a trite form of put-down. He has a name you
    know: David.\r\n\r\nDavid, if you're still reading please rest assured I bear
    no on-going animosity towards you. You've done the right thing by us your peers,
    and I thank you for cooperating and listening to reason.\r\n\r\nBert, and typophilers
    in general&#8212;\"Tiff\" likes to be called \"Tiffany\", thank you.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2008-11-06 07:58:05'
- author:
    name: solfeggio
    picture: 112465
  body: "Minor obiter: <em>stop calling him \u201CMr. Bergsland\u201D because it\u2019s
    a trite form of put-down.</em> It was never intended as as such on my part. Instead,
    it's merely a matter of being polite. To be clear, consider the evenhandedness:
    in private correspondence I have addressed Mr. Costello as \"Mr. Costello,\" not
    as \"Chris,\" even though I doubt he'd mind the informality.\r\n\r\nSome folks
    regard the overly-casual use of first names as a status leveler, while others
    do not view it so. Similarly, \"Mr.\" as an honorific oughn't be read mal fide
    as snide. \r\n\r\nSometimes a cigar is just a cigar, after all, though other times
    they're loaded. ;)\r\n\r\nBest regards,\r\nErnie \r\n(by which name you may all
    freely call me)"
  created: '2008-11-06 08:37:46'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I'm not trying to start a hunt for Dolly look-a-likes. I'm simply saying the
    design of Dolly is very good and it doesn't surprise me that there aren't more
    homages. (And derivatives.)
  created: '2008-11-06 19:57:39'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Tiffany> alrighty then\r\n\r\nWell, I\u2019m glad I posted this thread. We
    all need correction sometimes in our life. I\u2019m pretty sure <em>David</em>
    has learned his lesson (albeit in a public forum). Copying someone else\u2019s
    work can only lead to embarrassment, even dishonor. \r\n\r\nI look forward to
    original productions of his. David can only get better as a designer from this
    point.\r\n\r\nLike James said, this is over.\r\n\r\nI thank everyone for their
    participation and keeping their comments above-board.\r\n\r\nMike Diaz :-)"
  created: '2008-11-06 20:13:54'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>I\u2019m not trying to start a hunt for Dolly look-a-likes.</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    funny, i'll tell you why in another thread."
  created: '2008-11-06 20:24:26'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Like James said, this is over.\r\n\r\nDon't jinx the thread! When people
    say that things tend to spin up to the low 200's."
  created: '2008-11-06 20:34:05'
date: '2008-10-31 15:54:10'
title: Isn't this just modified Papyrus?...

---
