---
author:
  name: Si_Daniels
  picture: 110446
body: "Assume this is a new study...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.newstrackindia.com/newsdetails/32722"
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'Next up, students instructed on how to do laundry: Arial vs Old English (a
    hard-to-read font that looks like it was written with a pen).'
  created: '2008-10-31 21:57:29'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Assume this is a new study...\"\r\nWhy? It looks like the same study to
    me, i.e. useless to anyone but the utterly typographically ignorant who also need
    instructions. ;p\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-11-01 11:59:06'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "What\u2019s sad is Song & Schwarz getting picked up by every cheesy news
    site on Earth, but the only people who read the Yaffa story about Clearview HWY
    are probably smart enough to not demand designers use Arial in the first place."
  created: '2008-11-01 14:29:41'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: This is the same study. While I enjoy roasted peanuts (fancy!), does anyone
    want to propose an improvement to the Song & Schwarz study? If the article was
    about a painting technique, would people think the technique easier to perform
    if they were reading about it in Brush script than in Arial? Which fonts would
    be better than Arial for convincing people that an exercise program is easier?
  created: '2008-11-01 14:50:09'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>\u2026does anyone want to propose an improvement to the Song & Schwarz
    study?</cite>\r\n\r\nFor starters, bring more typefaces into the mix. Two just
    isn\u2019t enough. The sample needs to be much larger. And before the faces are
    chosen a very serious consideration of what makes a typeface easier to read really
    needs to be considered\u2014I doubt that many people could write a convincing
    explanation of why Arial is more readable/legible than brush script that most
    undergraduate design students couldn\u2019t shoot full of holes. "
  created: '2008-11-01 16:14:03'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...does anyone want to propose an improvement to the Song & Schwarz study?
    \"\r\n\r\nYes. I would like S&S to publish the composition they used in the study.
    Any other suggestions would have to follow examination of these/this composition(s).
    Thanks!\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-11-04 20:19:51'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Hyunjin Song was kind enough to send me the Word document that contained
    their test material. The study participants saw printed documents, so that will
    eliminate the letterspace rounding errors. This image contains the first four
    bullet points from the recipe stimulus. Any given participant either gets the
    page with the recipe in 12 point Arial or get the page with the recipe in 12 point
    Mistral. When printed the first line in the Arial stimuli is 14.9cm long from
    the bullet to the period after tofu.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/song
    schwarz_3412.PNG]"
  created: '2008-11-05 23:45:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "That's pathetic.\r\nThe easy way to get a significant outcome (and justify
    your funding) is to start with a preconceived result and make one option \"designed
    to fail\".\r\nHow can you take this seriously Kevin?\r\n\r\nNow, if they had budgeted
    a typographer into the mix, and said \"Arial and Mistral, a recipe with the same
    copy (text)--do the best you can with each,\" then maybe you'd have a fair comparison.
    But still la-la land science, because those just aren't typefaces that professional
    designers use for recipes.\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-05 23:56:04'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "You should at least set these fonts to the same x-height. What kind of science
    is this?\r\n\r\n(BTW I bet that Mistral would win in that case\u2026)\r\n\r\n.
    . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2008-11-06 00:34:10'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Nick, I think you continue to misunderstand the point of this study. They
    found that people who read the recipe in Arial thought that it would be faster
    to complete the steps in the recipe. It\u2019s utterly boring to say that one
    was designed to fail. It\u2019s 12 point Arial and 12 point Mistral. They are
    what they are.\r\n\r\nBert, your prediction is more interesting. You are predicting
    that a larger point size of Mistral would result in people believing that the
    recipe is easier than with Arial. Could you generalize this prediction? Since
    it is also then easier to complete the recipe with the larger point size of Mistral
    than the smaller point size of Mistral, is it true with all other fonts that will
    perform better with larger point sizes? Alternatively, is there some point size
    for Mistral that will result in the people believing that the recipe will be easiest?\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-06 01:12:21'
- author:
    name: solfeggio
    picture: 112465
  body: '<em>Sheesh!</em> As designed, the whole rigmarole is utterly ludicrous. Might
    as well give one group of test subjects recipes printed in R. Crumb''s hand-lettering,
    say from the "Zap Comix" heyday, and the other group the identical recipe printed
    in Schaftstiefelgrotesk and afterwards ask them which version might demand more
    culinary discipline. And to think this so-called study was financially underwritten
    to boot. [<em>shakes head in disbelief; exits stage left</em>] '
  created: '2008-11-06 01:36:36'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "I'm posting this on behalf of Norbert Schwarz:\r\n\r\nHi Typophiles -- Kevin
    kindly forwarded the link to this discussion and I have to say it's amusing. If
    you had ever bothered to read the paper you discuss with so much engagement, you
    would have noticed that it is NOT about type fonts. It is about inferences from
    the subjective experience of ease of processing and in other studies we use manipulations
    like ease of pronunciation, figure-ground contrast, repetition, distraction etc.
    All we care about is that our <em>difficult</em> condition differs from our <em>easy</em>
    condition in terms of experienced ease of processing. Arial and Mistral meet this
    criterion.\r\n\r\nNo typographer is needed to figure that out and no position
    has been taken in your turf wars. Relevant papers are at\r\nhttp://sitemaker.umich.edu/norbert.schwarz/metacognitive_experiences\r\n\r\nBest,
    Norbert Schwarz\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-06 02:30:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "OK, it is not about typefaces or typography, fine. Then what IS it about
    and what did you learn from your exercise? With utmost certainty, any fool can
    see that the Arial version is easier to read/\"Follow\" than the mistral version.
    Do you really need to test this?  If you had a condition called \"Lighting\" where
    one page would be read in normal roomlight and the other would be read in a room
    lit with only one match 5 feet away from the page, would you need a test to tell
    you that participants preferred the condition with roomlight? \r\nThe problem
    is that people read only your conclusions and are totally thrown off by your professional
    jargon. The take the simple words \"Arial was chosen by a great margin to be the
    favorite to read recipes\" and the next thing you know, everyone with a blog or
    newsletter is hailing Arial as the end all typeface for everything. These are
    not scientists, mind you, these are average Joes and Janes who think they are
    being scientific. Be careful how you word conclusions. It can do damage.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-11-06 04:36:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>it is NOT about type fonts</em>\r\n\r\nAnd yet you suggest that one \"type
    font\" is measurably easier to process than another?\r\nThat is not true. \r\nYou
    might just as well say that a trumpet is easier to hear than a piano.\r\n\r\nIt
    <em>shouldn't</em> be about fonts.\r\nIt should be about typography.\r\nBecause
    it is not the choice of typeface, but the way it is set which determines its readability.\r\nAnd
    yet you blithely speak of \"easy to read type fonts\" as if such things exist
    objectively.\r\nThat has more typographic truth than scientific truth.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nWhat
    scientists don't seem to be able to grasp is something that designers are very
    familiar with, namely that the metacognitive qualities of typography are as much
    cultural as physical.\r\n\r\nAs I said before, one doesn't have to read the text
    to infer the difficulty of the task.\r\n\r\nTo test the veracity of that proposition,
    try the experiment with a langauge that the participants don't understand.\r\nThe
    results would be similar. Participants would infer that the Arial recipe is easier,
    and the Mistral recipe harder.\r\nAnd yet this experiment is predicated on <em>ease
    of processing</em>?\r\n\r\nThe typographic component of this experiment demonstrates
    that if something is made to look as if it's hard to do, people will think it's
    hard to do. Surely that is axiomatic, and not in need of scientific study?\r\n\r\nPlease,
    stop spreading the rumor that the readability of typefaces can be scientifically
    measured.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-06 04:39:11'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "<em>it is NOT about type fonts\r\n\r\nAnd yet you suggest that one \u201Ctype
    font\u201D is measurably easier to process than another?\r\nThat is not true.</em>\r\n\r\nIt
    was not the goal of Song & Schwarz to pick a great font. They were using fonts
    to study how outside factors affect the understanding of the content. I find it
    interesting that the font choice impacts how hard it is to cook a recipe or complete
    an exercise program. I\u2019m surprised that no one else has found this the least
    bit remarkable?! It is though clear, based on the results of this scientific study,
    that 12 point Arial was processed more easily than 12 point Mistral. Many here
    have said that is obvious, and I agree with them.\r\n\r\n<em>Please, stop spreading
    the rumor that the readability of typefaces can be scientifically measured.</em>\r\n\r\nYou
    should quit putting science on a pedestal. Everything in the material world can
    be measured scientifically. That fact just isn\u2019t that remarkable anymore.\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-06 07:20:26'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Presumably Song and Schwarz could have made the Arial hard to read and the
    Mistral less of a strain with the opposite result from a font point of view. But
    font choice <em>per se</em> shouldn't be considered the independant variable here,
    but how much of a strain text is to read in perceptual processing terms. It doesn't
    surprise me that the subjective perception of how hard an argument or a set of
    instructions is to follow, can be impacted by the objective reality of how hard
    might be the perceptual psychophysical resolution into recognizable word-forms
    of the text itself.\r\n\r\nKevin, I like your \u2018pedestal\u2019 counterpunch.
    Yet, I\u2019d amend your \u201C[e]verything in the material world\u2026\u201D
    sentence to read: everything in the material world that has a quantitative dimension
    can be measured scientifically. (The qualitative aspects that cling to items in
    the material world often don't and can\u2019t, though behaviour responses to qualitative
    aspect show strong and identifiable patterns or regularity.)"
  created: '2008-11-06 14:35:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>It is though clear, based on the results of this scientific study, that
    12 point Arial was processed more easily than 12 point Mistral. </em>\r\n\r\nThat
    is not clear at all, it is hypothetical.\r\nA thorough test would have had the
    participants actually carry out the instructions, and see, for instance, which
    group of students actually lost weight or whatever, those who followed the Arial
    instructions, or the those who followed the Mistral text.\r\nThere is a distinction
    between being able to read text, being able to understand what it means, being
    able to use it as instructions, and being motivated by it to carry out the instructions.\r\n\r\n<em>I\u2019m
    surprised that no one else has found this the least bit remarkable?!</em>\r\n\r\nWell,
    working with the \"metacognitive\" qualities of type is what graphic designers,
    art directors, and typographers do for a living every day, so no, it appears to
    be notable only to those who don't get that. \r\n\r\n<em>Everything in the material
    world can be measured scientifically.</em>\r\n\r\nGood old scientific hubris.\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-06 15:01:02'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Nick, without having read the study, I\u2019m assuming that actually it <em>is</em>
    probably clear that the 12 point Arial was processed more easily than the 12 point
    Mistral. But my point was that that\u2019s just circumstantial, and says nothing
    about the inherent readability or legibility of the fonts. I doubt this was even
    the question. Certainly it sounds like it wasn\u2019t the focus of the test. \r\n\r\nThe
    starting pont would probably have been to use a set of stimulu that was hypothetically
    clearly different on the easy to process / difficult to process spectrum. Some
    intuitive or experietial fore-knowledge of how Mistral at 12 point versus Arial
    at 12 point performs would have had to have been involved. I'm assuming difficulty
    in processing was gauged before it's effect on following instructions, etc was
    tested.\r\n\r\nI also think you might be reading past Kevin\u2019s important caveat
    \u201Cmaterial\u201D when you make your sweeping disclaimers. My emendation \u201Ceverything
    in the material world that has a quantitative dimension can be measured\u201D
    (let\u2019s drop the \u201Cscientifically\u201D for now) is almost tautological.
    The only important caveat seems to be what's stated in the uncertainty principle.
    \r\n\r\nMy world is not so easy to slice up.\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-06 16:45:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>it is probably clear that the 12 point Arial was processed more easily
    than the 12 point Mistral.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, if \"processing\" means \"in one ear,
    out the other\"."
  created: '2008-11-06 17:29:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "We have to ask ourselves what is the utilitarian value of a given typeface--what
    is its intended use and how well it succeeds in that intended area. Arial and
    Mistral are not matched to the same functional arena. Mistral is a strictly display
    face intended to mimmic handwritten personal notes. It is supposed to be warm
    and fuzzy and used for very brief little clumps of text. The atmosphere Mistral
    lends is what it is all about. Arial is a derivative of Helvetica with very little
    detail that is intended to work reasonably well both onscreen and printed in low
    rez home printers. It is a default face which everyone on Earth has been quite
    accustomed to do to it being bundled with everything computer related for decades.
    If I were to set a page in both fonts and ask a group of subjects which font gives
    a warmer, friendlier look, and it came out to be Arial, then you would have some
    data that would raise eyebrows and cause a recount.\r\nAnother way to look at
    it is if I ask a group of people which cutting tool they would choose to cut firewood
    with and showed them a chain saw and a pair of scissors. Would anyone need to
    bother counting the votes?\r\nIf I were to go back and replicate your exact test
    but substitute Arno for Mistral, I might find out something a bit more usable.
    Even better, If I were to compare a dozen respectable text faces of different
    kinds, I might find out even more.\r\nHowever, this is not about typefaces so
    why bother testing typefaces at all?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-11-06 18:37:05'
- author:
    name: rcc
    picture: 112031
  body: "@ChrisL: <em>However, this is not about typefaces so why bother testing typefaces
    at all?</em>\r\n\r\nAfter having read through the less-than-lucid prose in the
    studies made available at the link above (yes, all of them), I think the exercise
    is roughly tantamount to finding a visual corollary to the judgment under uncertainty
    principle and precious little else. In a famous and subtantiated finding, Tversky
    & Kahneman showed that people tend to regard propositions that they do not understand
    as more risky, regardless of their intrinsic risk, and to regard things they do
    understand as less risky, again without regard to intrinsic risk.* See the parallel
    between printouts set in clear-as-bell Arial or squint-to-read-it Mistral, content
    be damned? \r\n\r\nIn a word, it's boneheaded. Taken as a whole, the results and
    self-referential citations among these studies end up telling us less about inferences
    from the subjective experience of ease/difficulty of visual processing and far
    more about the researchers themselves. The studies lack intellectual rigor, are
    poorly designed, and serve only to perpetuate careers. How they managed to sail
    this stuff past peer review amazes &mdash; no, wait, take that back: said peers
    were doubtless typographically clueless as well or the project wouldn't have commenced.\r\n\r\nNick
    Shinn is right to implore: \"Please, stop spreading the rumor that the readability
    of typefaces can be scientifically measured.\" It's a pity these canards can be
    so easily foisted on the masses. Just because the snakeoil salesman has a degree
    and can show us charts and graphs and statistics doesn't make the product any
    less snakeoil.\r\n\r\nSo sounding more like a cop at an accident site, let me
    assure you \"There's nothing here to see, folks, so please move along.\"\r\n\r\n\u0386\u03BD\u03C4\u03B5
    \u03B3\u03B5\u03B9\u03AC for now.\r\n\r\n* Amos Tversky and Daniel Kahneman, \"Judgment
    Under Uncertainty: Heuristics and Biases,\" Science [185] 1974, pp. 1124-1131.\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-06 19:32:43'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "<em>We have to ask ourselves what is the utilitarian value of a given typeface</em>\r\n\r\nChris,
    you\u2019re making a good point here. Song & Schwarz showed that it\u2019s possible
    to measure a difference in the perception of content. The particular fonts they
    used were not particularly interesting, and that was not the point of their study.
    Their study fits into a larger program of work that is not related to typography.
    Somebody interested in typography could build on their work by making more interesting
    typographic choices.\r\n\r\nYou describe Mistral as warm, fuzzy, and useful for
    mimicking handwritten personal notes. An interesting hypothesis based on the Song
    & Schwarz methodology would be to set a personal note in Mistral and some other
    font that isn\u2019t useful for mimicking handwritten personal notes, and then
    asking the readers how warm and fuzzy they feel towards the author of the note.
    This is quite different from asking if the font is warm and fuzzy. It\u2019s measuring
    that the font is having an impact on the perception of the content. It might be
    the case that with a change in content, Mistral makes the text easier to process
    than Arial (or whatever font). Does anyone want to make that prediction?\r\n\r\nSong
    & Schwarz ran one study. We were able to learn something non-obvious from it.
    There are many possibilities that we didn\u2019t learn from the study. We learn
    by answering one question at a time because no study can answer every question.\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-06 19:38:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"It\u2019s measuring that the font is having an impact on the perception
    of the content. It might be the case that with a change in content, Mistral makes
    the text easier to process than Arial (or whatever font). Does anyone want to
    make that prediction?\"\r\n\r\nNow that would be worth doing. This is what I was
    getting at above. This is also not as predictable. My guess would be that their
    would be differentiating data and some sort of a curve as opposed to the slam
    dunk in the original study prompting this discussion.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-11-06 21:30:30'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "For what it's worth, I \u2014 an informed typophile (if I may say so myself)
    \u2014 find Schwartz's line of research, as elaborated in the abstracts on his
    site and the snippets of his \u201CMetacognitive experiences in judgment and decision
    making\u201D that I've read, <em>prima facia</em> both worthwhile and informative.
    It surprises me that type designers should attack a research program in which
    metacognitive impacts on how textual content is perceived or understood, when
    a good part of their activity has this as an implicit premise! [img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2008-11-06 22:55:28'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "We learn by answering one question at a time, though answers of this study's
    question size come in bunches, or dozens per second in Type 101.  But, okay, if
    it is about inferences from the subjective experience of ease of processing, and
    the widespread and most read answer from this study is that Arial is the best
    font for reading, <em>and</em> if the study is NOT about type fonts, I've become
    bored to confusion. Except that I  think it's fair to say that science is not
    ready for types like us, and types like us are not ready for science like this.
    Or if the scientists agree, that the fly is dead, go get a smaller hammer, or
    try a bigger fly, then I agree that progress has been made. \r\n\r\nKevlar: is
    it true with all other fonts that will perform better with larger point sizes?
    \r\nNo, and there is one MS \"study\", Times vs. Georgia in the under card, and
    Helvetica vs. Verdana in the main event. You should read it. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-11-07 13:23:05'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "<em>No, and there is one MS \u201Cstudy\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nThank you for providing
    a straw man response for my straw man question. I\u2019m impressed that you would
    cite a study as your evidence. \r\n\r\nThe context for this question was that
    Bert proposed that a larger size of Mistral would perform better than Arial. i.e.
    With a larger point size of Mistral people would perceive that the above recipe
    would take less time to complete. I expected that the hypothesis would be some
    sort of curve, that Mistral would perform poorer with a size too small or too
    large, and was hoping to hear a prediction of the optimal point size. Since this
    is all known and trivial to you, would you please enlighten me about the optimal
    point size for Mistral for allowing recipes to be perceived as quickly to complete?\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-07 16:42:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"would you please enlighten me about the optimal point size for Mistral
    for allowing recipes to be perceived as quickly to complete?\"\r\n\r\nI think
    you misunderstood him. I think he was indicating the the xheight differences between
    Mistral and Arial are so great that it was not a fair test. It was not to say
    that there is an optimum size where Mistral would perform better than Arial but
    a size where the two fonts would be perceived to be the same size to the reader.
    Point size does not tell the story. As is always the case with typefaces, you
    have to consider all the variables, not just the point size.\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Mistral_4995.png]"
  created: '2008-11-07 17:05:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I would still predict that Arial would be preferred even with Mistral enlarged
    because a contiguous script like Mistral with numerous irregularities and mimicking
    handwriting is clearly harder to read than a more regular typeface like Arial.
    This just takes one variable out of the mix and gives a more fair test--more fair
    but still pointless.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-11-07 17:09:53'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Bert did say that he though Mistral would perform better than Arial if the
    x-heights were matched, but I was asking a different question. What is the size
    at which Mistral will perform best? There is a lot of data that reading speed
    is fastest for text faces at 11 point plus or minus a point. But I don\u2019t
    know if reading speed will correlate perfectly with perception about the content.
    (i.e. will the recipe be perceived as easiest to complete in 8 point, 11 point,
    or 14 point Arial). And I don\u2019t know the point size of Mistral that will
    result in the fastest reading speed, so I don\u2019t have a great starting point
    for hypothesizing which point size of Mistral will cause the recipe to be perceived
    as easiest to complete. I agree other factors need to be considered, so it would
    be fine specify the leading or other variables when predicting the point size
    at which Mistral will perform best.\r\n\r\nCheers, Kevin"
  created: '2008-11-07 17:23:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"There is a lot of data that reading speed is fastest for text faces at
    11 point plus or minus a point.\"\r\n\r\nYou will notice that you said \"text
    faces\" above. Mistral is not a text face and never could be whatever the size.
    \ You also said the test measured \"reading speed\" but Mistral does not qualify
    as a font to be used when reading speed was an issue. It is kind of like saying
    we would race a Formula 1 Ferrari race car against a paraplegic guy in a wheel
    chair. This is not a race that would ever happen. Comparing several handwriting
    script fonts to see which one was more effective in getting the subjects to respond
    to a call for action might be a more fair and more valuable test.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-11-07 17:36:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "To answer you question more specifically (even though it does not help any),
    I would guess that Mistral would need to be about 50% bigger in point size than
    Arial to give its best shot at it pretending to compete.\r\nThink of it like a
    Golf handicap. If I were playing Arnold Palmer, you could give me a 50 shot handicap
    and I would still loose very badly because I don't play Golf at all. Or going
    back to my scissors and chain-saw example; you could give the scissors user a
    3 hour head-start over the chain-saw user when cutting a log to stretch out the
    test but the results would not change.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-11-07 17:50:28'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Sorry, I\u2019ve been dancing around the idea I\u2019m trying to convey.
    Let me try again. I think the Song & Schwarz methodology could be particularly
    valuable for studying display faces. With display faces we are not trying to get
    out of the way of the content, but are actively trying to impact it. Mistral is
    a warm and fuzzy display face trying to mimic handwriting, but it\u2019s not clear
    to me what the best size is for conveying warm and fuzziness. What would happen
    if we had three versions of a thank you note in 12 point, 24 point, or 36 point
    Mistral? Which version would cause the reader to feel maximally warm and fuzzy
    about the author of the thank you note?\r\n\r\nCheers, Kevin"
  created: '2008-11-07 18:55:38'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "From my point of view, all that\u2019s needed (for the Song and Schwartz
    test to be interesting and informative) is one thing that clearly promotes and
    another thing that demonstrably disturbs rapid automatic visual word-form resolution.
    The version that promotes should sit squarely on the rapid automatic visual word-form
    resolution affordance plateau, and the version that disturbs should be at or near
    the visual word-form resolution threshold.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2008-11-07 19:00:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Kevin,\r\nMy guess would be that your answer would be something approximating
    real handwriting size in the eyes of the beholder, however, there is no standard
    writing size (see Declaration of Independence). I am not convinced that size matters
    much in your scenario. I would feel that other attributes might give more or less
    credence to \"Warm-and-Fuzziness.\" Perhaps printing color and texture of paper
    (handmade paper with deckled edge may be better than normal bond). Mistral is
    one of the first typefaces to attempt to mimmic human handwriting and predates
    OpenType. Some of the newer fonts like \"Dear Sarah\" may fit your scenario better.
    You might be better served comparing several handwriting fonts in your sample
    and include Mistral to see how it faired against a control font like Times New
    Roman.\r\n\r\nWhat do you see as the likely control factors in Warm-and-Fuzziness?
    You mentioned size of text but why? I would think things which can further humanize
    the text would be better. There also may be a backfire effect in your test. Much
    of the junkmail we receive is in faux handwriting to try and trick the reader
    in to thinking a real person is writing them a personal letter. It has got to
    the point where if I see a letter addressed in a faux handwriting font, I toss
    it without opening it because it is disingenuous.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-11-07 21:20:08'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Chris, I have no idea what factors control warm and fuzziness. Perhaps size
    doesn\u2019t matter, but what if we test that. Either we would find out that your
    intuition was correct and size doesn\u2019t affect warm and fuzziness, or we find
    that one size was more warm and fuzzy than another size. If 36 point Mistral was
    more warm and fuzzy than 12 or 24 point, would that be valuable information than
    you could use?\r\n\r\nPrinting color and/or texture of paper may also impact warm
    and fuzziness. If we test different printing colors and find that one results
    in more warm and fuzziness, is that valuable information? \r\n"
  created: '2008-11-08 00:54:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "All the things I envision as having value for me involve many variables.
    All the variables interact in a symbiotic way to make a graphic design piece work.
    I don't see how one variable without the others in combination is very helpful
    in communication to action proposals. The kind of bit-at-a-time testing of variables
    you are talking about may work in highway sign legibility where the variables
    are more predictable--size, speed of vehicle, distance, lighting, brightness contrast,
    difference ratio, proximity to event, height, day/night usage, font, color, ground
    color, etc. All of that is complex enough without adding human attitude change,
    emotion, communication of feelings, and desired action on the item in question.\r\nGraphic
    designers operate under quick deadlines and small budgets. I can't imagine the
    kind of research you describe as being doable under those constraints and I can't
    see what degree of certainty your tests would bring. That is why most testing
    of graphic design is just focus testing of complete designs with the goal of the
    participants in just choosing which of the submitted designs works best for them.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-11-08 02:09:25'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Kevin, Mistral has a very different gestural-atmospheric force than Arial.
    I'm not sure I would describe it\u2019s g-a force as warm and fuzzy. Warm and
    fuzzy aren\u2019t descriptors that readily come to mind with Mistral. To stay
    with Song and Schwartz, gestural-atmospheric force is a metacognitive reality.
    I think gestural-atmospheric force impacts perceptions of content. It might play
    a role in signalling the modality of the content the reader should expect. This
    signalling could be important from a strategic formatting point of view.\r\n\r\nArial
    might lead a reader to expect ordered instructional content; Mistral, spirited
    call-out snippets or vignettes. Readers may viscerally register a momentary or
    persistent disconnect with Mistral for instructional content, which might affect
    the allocation of attention. Exploring content-modality signalling through gestural-atmospheric
    force characteristics might be worthwhile."
  created: '2008-11-08 14:17:05'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Geeze, someone answer the question, is it Schwartz's \"It's NOT about FONTS,
    (you stupid non-functioning type literati)\" or Sung's \"Arial is the BEST font
    to READ! (you frightened font menu-munching type illiterati)\" ?\r\n\r\nKevlar:
    ...would you please enlighten me about the optimal point size for Mistral for
    allowing recipes to be perceived as quickly to complete?\r\n\r\nZero. That is,
    when serving Mistral in recipes to be perceived as quick to complete, zero is
    the correct answer, except as Peter suggests, perhaps, when the complete recipe
    is \"Open Here\", or \"Remove Plastic Cover Before placing in Microwave for 1
    minute\", which may be stretching it. \r\n\r\nKevlar: With display faces we are
    not trying to get out of the way of the content, but are actively trying to impact
    it.\r\n\r\nSee!? when you stop dancin' around it trying to marginalize the center,
    you can make sense. Unfortunately, (just for your argument), S&S's study was a
    text problem.\r\n\r\nSo there are two clear ways to improve S&S now.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-09 12:57:37'
- author:
    name: badslicer
    picture: 114666
  body: "I agree with CrisL, the readability of this fonts, Arial & Mistral can not
    be understood or even compared if set in the same body size. The sample with Arial
    in a small body size close to Mistral in a bigger body size makes both very readable.\r\n\r\nA
    idea: Compare Arial & Helvetica at the same body sizes. Then come out and say
    that Arial is better. Or compare Mistral and Brush Script at the same body size,
    to compare. Just a thought."
  created: '2008-11-09 16:56:31'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I have to agree with Chris and others. The comparison between a 12 point
    Arial and 12 point Mistral is an unfair and unrealistic comparison. You can't
    base any conclusions on such a comparison, because pointsize doesn't actually
    tell you a whole lot about how large or small letters are. The only thing you
    can conclude from the current comparison is that, at the same pointsize, Arial
    has a bigger body size than Mystral. But we already knew that.\r\n\r\nSo, as many
    people have already said: if you want to compare those typefaces objectively,
    <em>you have to set them to match x-height/body size</em>, to 'equalize' them
    as much as possible, otherwise you are basically forcing the outcome?"
  created: '2010-02-01 00:45:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Manufacturer's attribution of point size is nominal, and somewhat arbitrary.\r\nFor
    instance, digital URW Futura has a different x-height (measured in units of em)
    than Adobe Futura.\r\nSo to base typeface-comparison research on point size is
    sloppy science.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/g_4208.jpg]"
  created: '2010-02-01 01:28:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Kevin: <em>They found that people who read the recipe in Arial thought that
    it would be faster to complete the steps in the recipe.</em>\r\n\r\nHahahahahahahahahahahahaha!\r\n\r\nI
    think generalisation of the results would require some kind of prefatory statement:
    \u2018Presuming subjects with a poor grasp of causal relationships....\u2019"
  created: '2010-02-01 03:52:16'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "I\u2019m mystified that typophilers aren\u2019t excited about this study.
    \r\n\r\nAs Norbert Schwarz said above, their goal was not to study something specifically
    about typography, but to study the subjective experience of ease of processing.
    That Mistral and Arial have different x-heights is irrelevant to them. They could
    have compared 8 point Mistral to 12 point Arial, or compared 8 point Arial to
    12 point Arial.\r\n\r\nWe may not find the specific comparison made in this study
    informative, but the methodology shown here is very useful. It demonstrates that
    typography impacts how we understand text. People reading the exact same text
    thought that the recipe would take longer to complete when it was written in one
    typographic treatment versus another. That is fascinating.\r\n\r\nHas anyone ever
    asked you why good typography matters? This study addresses that question.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-01 16:44:05'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'To be honest I don''t think people can get past Arial, and to a lesser degree
    Mistral. If they''d used Myriad vs Bickham or Helvetica vs Zapfino people here
    would likely respond differently. Imagine giving a talk wearing a Sarah Palin
    t-shirt, Arial in this study has the safe effect on its credibility.   '
  created: '2010-02-01 16:56:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Si is right, they have unknowingly interjected bias into the study. It is
    like having choices "The Big Bad Wolf" and "Little Red Ridinghood" and asking
    a kid who they would rather walk with in the woods.
  created: '2010-02-01 17:01:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>That is fascinating.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, isn't it amazing!\r\nWhat's more,
    there is a multi-billion dollar industry, that's been around for ages, based on
    the premise that the design of visual communications (they are known as \"advertisements\"
    or sometimes \"corporate identities\") forms an important part of the message.
    Awesome! \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-01 18:01:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I\u2019m mystified that typophilers aren\u2019t excited about this study.\r\n\r\nI
    believe you.\r\nBecause it parallels the dismissal of anecdotal typographic evidence...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-01 18:12:26'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>It demonstrates that typography impacts how we understand text. People
    reading the exact same text thought that the recipe would take longer to complete
    when it was written in one typographic treatment versus another. That is fascinating.\r\n</em><em>\r\nHas
    anyone ever asked you why good typography matters? This study addresses that question.</em>\r\n\r\nActually,
    I don't think it gives us answers that we didn't already know, at all. Everyone
    on this forum already knew from experience that good typography matters and that
    it makes the message more readable, because that has been the whole idea of typography
    for at least 600 years, and that is why we are typographers. :)\r\n\r\nWhen you
    do a study like this, with comparisons, you <em>have</em> to eliminate all outside
    variables and make that which you are comparing as equal to each other as possible.
    Otherwise the comparison is biased from the start. When you set it 12 to 12 the
    conclusion is obvious, because it is evident that a typeface with a tiny body
    size won't be as readable as the huge-bodied typeface with very open shapes. You
    don't need people to fill in a form to determine that. And furthermore, you should
    do several more comparisons with different typefaces to further eliminate bias..."
  created: '2010-02-02 20:37:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I suppose the other question that I should ask about this study is what degree
    of cooking experience the subjects had? I can imagine that the same test might
    produce different results when taken by professional chefs, who are going to be
    quickly relating the <em>content</em> of the recipe text to a body of experience
    and knowledge, and by non-cooks who lack that experience and knowledge. In that
    case, one might conclude that the <em>form</em> of a text provides an interpretative
    handle for people who don't have any other frame of reference.
  created: '2010-02-02 21:23:19'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: x-height, cooking experience &c. are independent variables than can easily
    be refined, through multidimensional counterbalancing, by conducting followup
    studies where you simply refine your materials, experimental design, population
    and data analysis. Science is, as design, is an iterative process.
  created: '2010-02-03 05:49:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>People reading the exact same text thought that the recipe would take
    longer to complete when it was written in one TYPOGRAPHIC TREATMENT versus another.</em>
    (My emphasis.)\r\n\r\nKevin, I think you have expressed that correctly.\r\nThe
    problem is that the font used, not the treatment, is getting the credit for making
    the difference, and before you know it, Arial is being bandied about as the go-to,
    go-faster typeface.\r\n\r\nPerhaps it would be better to not mention the names
    of the typefaces used in these tests, as it is such a distraction.\r\n\r\nAfter
    all, if the fonts in this study had been described as Font a, \"a legible, grotesk
    sans serif\" and Font b, \"a connected handwriting script\", that would have been
    quite adequate for scientific purposes, would it not? (These descriptions are
    the top MyFonts tags for the two faces).\r\n\r\nBy mentioning the names of the
    fonts used, researchers run the risk of becoming unwitting pimps for commercial
    products, and their serious theoretical work being mistaken for mere product testing."
  created: '2010-02-03 10:36:19'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Without mentioning the names it would not be possible for another scientist
    to reproduce (support or refute) the results. The commercial point is very interesting
    \ however. It would be possible to say \"Font A\" and \"Font B\" thereby not plugging
    a product, which I think good. You may be on to something there Nick. I could
    design a typeface, then conduct hundreds of sloppy experiments solely in an attempt
    to broadcast it's name as a marketing ploy. In order to reproduce a study where
    the fonts aren't named, you would have to contact the experimenters directly which
    would place a moral obligation on the scientist to share the information so that
    the community could validate their work. \r\n\r\nIt has been my experience that
    not all research scientsts, especially ones in fields with commercial application,
    are willing to give away their materials, data &c in fear of getting scooped.
    I'm still new at this however, and have only come across this problem a handful
    of times. For the most part, research scientists I have contacted are more than
    wiling to share their information as it only increases the likelihood of them
    getting referenced.\r\n\r\nRegarding Nick's commercial point, I think there may
    be a parallel in medical research and drug names. Is there a doctor in the house?"
  created: '2010-02-03 15:30:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Why do they have to use the same fonts?\r\nThey don't use the same subjects.\r\nSurely
    one \"legible grotesk sans serif\" is as good as another, if it's being compared
    with a \"connected handwriting script\".\r\nAnyway, I'm doubtful as to whether
    researchers are really interested in reproducing one another's experiments.\r\nWhere
    are the follow-ups to this Song and Schwartz affair?\r\n\r\nI'm aware of one study,
    Yager et al., 1998, that compared a \"Dutch\" and \"Swiss\" typeface. Times vs.
    Arial/Helvetica, I would imagine.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-03 16:20:44'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "\"I'm doubtful as to whether researchers are really interested in reproducing
    one another's experiments.\"\r\n\r\nReproducing results is a <strong>major</strong>
    aspect of all scientific research. How else would we validate results? Pointing
    to confounds is simple, but if the reported results are significant, and there
    are confounds that go unnoticed or unreported, then we are accepting false data
    as true. Imagine the implications of this type of approach in the case of medicine.\r\n\r\nI
    have not read Yager, but for Times versus Helvetica see:\r\n\r\nRudi, W. et al
    (1993). Performance differences between Times and Helvetica in a reading task.
    <em>Electronic Publishing 6(3)</em>, 41\u2013248.\r\n\r\nNot much can be drawn
    from this study however as they failed to counterbalance the order in which subjects
    received the conditions."
  created: '2010-02-03 16:53:52'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "\"<cite>\r\nWithout mentioning the names it would not be possible for another
    scientist to reproduce (support or refute) the results. </cite>\"\r\n \r\nYes
    it would. They could call them Font A, Font B etc. as Nick suggests and the fonts
    can be embedded in the report documentation. Or, how about defining specific criteria
    for specific features and elements of a typeface. \r\n\r\nIt is the job of font
    makers or font distributors to substantiate claims of legibility, just as it is
    with drug companies. Not scientists studying general principals of legibility
    and readability. Any mention in a scientific report of specific fonts, (which
    are products), in a scientific study of legibility amounts to an endorsement (or
    condemnation, depending on the outcome) of that product, which I doubt is the
    intended take-away of those conducting the research. And is most certainly unfair
    to all those designers and retailers of fonts that could be equally as good as
    or better than those that happen to get used in legibility tests, such as Arial,
    which is there, in no small part because it is a bundled font that happens to
    be the default sans serif typeface on PCs, and we all have a pretty good idea
    of how that hapened. \r\n\r\nThere isn't some magic bullet than can't be defined
    which one font has and another doesn't which makes one font more legible than
    another. It's is as simple as such things as relative x-height, weight, contrast,
    width to height ratio, tracking, how open or closed Apertures are, relative bowl
    size, presence or absence of confusable characters and so on. These are the things
    science and engineering exist to measure and evaluate. When comparing fonts they
    are completely at sea without either ignoring specifics and simply referring to
    a short list of fonts, which I suppose are regarded as generic examples of various
    types of fonts and referring to them by name, or delving right in there and measuring
    everything to come up with some generic criteria. \r\n\r\nFor what it is worth,
    the AODA (Accessibility for Ontarians with Disabilities Act) specifies that fonts
    for use on signage in public buildings must:\r\n\r\n<cite>\r\n.2 Have a width
    to height ratio between 3:5 and 1:1 (using an upper case X for\r\ncharacter measurement);\r\n.3
    Have a stroke width to height ratio between 1:5 and 1:10;\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nGod
    knows where that spec came from, but there it is. It doesn\u2019t seem unreasonable.
    It does seem arbitrary, but outside those parameters, fonts used for wayfinding
    signage do tend to seem too narrow or too wide and too light or too bold. This
    ratio by the way makes Tiresias SignFont non-compliant on signage in Ontario.
    \ \r\n \r\n \r\n "
  created: '2010-02-03 17:39:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Reproducing results is a major aspect of all scientific research.</em>\r\n\r\nMy
    awareness of reading research is pretty skimpy, but it looks like each researcher
    wants to do their own thing their own way, rather than repeat someone else's project.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-04 00:32:59'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick, the point is not that all experiments are repeated, but that every
    experiment must be repeatable such that it can be independently verified that
    the results are reproducible. If you conduct an experiment that no one else is
    able to repeat, then your results don't count for anything because they can't
    be verified. The circumstances under which an experiment is actually repeated
    vary, but this typically happens if the result is counter-intuitive or contrary
    to the results of other, related experiments, or if the procedure appears in some
    way possibly flawed to another researcher, or if a later experiment produces a
    result that makes the earlier result suspect.\r\n\r\nThis isn't particular to
    reading research. It is how experimental science is conducted."
  created: '2010-02-04 02:16:00'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "They were kind enough to show us:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/files/song%20schwarz_3412.PNG\r\n\r\nHere
    was the crit:\r\n              <strong>\"That's pathetic.\"\r\n\"You should at
    least set these fonts to the same x-height. \"\r\n   \"As designed, the whole
    rigmarole is utterly ludicrous\"</strong>\r\n\r\nThen <em>You</em> told us Schwartz
    said: \"...if you'd read the study you would have noticed that it is NOT about
    type fonts...\"\r\n\r\nWell, <strong>I </strong>read the study. So <strong>I </strong>
    said: \"the widespread and most read answer from this study is that Arial is the
    best font for reading, and [yet S says] the study is NOT about type fonts, (?)\"\r\n\r\nGet
    content, target content, design solution so content hits target. \r\n\r\nI thought
    they taught this in business school. Studies have, after all <em>convincingly</em>
    proven that students (the subjects of this study), have an extremely low tolerance
    for any recipe not ending in debauchery of some kind. \r\n\r\nYou can say, this
    is <strong>not </strong>about who the subjects are, and you can say that this
    is <strong>not</strong> about typography, and you can say that this is <strong>not</strong>
    about fonts, or content, <em>but then what's it about?</em> \r\n\r\nThey got one
    right here so far, up to now, to this point, in part one... for an arbitrary match
    of content and target, something interesting happens when everything is wrong
    about the type and typography of sample B, and less is wrong about sample A.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-04 13:34:57'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "David,\r\nHere is a newspaper article about the larger Schwarz program of
    research. Perhaps it will clarify what they were demonstrating. I'm confident
    that it never occurred (or to me) that their study could be used to sell more
    copies of Arial.\r\nhttp://www.boston.com/bostonglobe/ideas/articles/2010/01/31/easy__true/?page=1\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-04 17:44:45'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Oh good, thanks. \r\n\r\nYou now have the ultimate power in all the universe
    over disfluency. ;)\r\n\r\nWhat will you do?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-02-04 20:22:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I think I'm beginning to understand this cognitive fluency stuff.\r\nResearch
    has been done on reading and sound.\r\nHow would investigation of another sense,
    taste, work out?\r\n\r\nSubjects would be given two bowls.\r\nOne contains Fruit
    Loops\u2122 and milk, the other an equal amount of jalapeno tortilla chips and
    milk.\r\nHow much of each is eaten in a given period of time is measured.\r\n\r\nBased
    on the general theory of cognitive fluency, it can be predicted that, \"if it
    tastes bad, don't eat it\".\r\nAlthough the study is not, of course, about cereals,
    news services would pick up the story, \"Fruit Loops\u2122 is best for breakfast,
    scientists find\".\r\n\r\nPeople eat food for nutrition, but this research would
    demonstrate that, because of cognitive processes, taste is also important.\r\nSo
    there may be commercial applications.\r\n\r\nFascinating."
  created: '2010-02-05 11:50:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: After Nick's research was published, a perplexed scientist would attempt to
    reproduce the experiment but would replace the fruit loops with wassabe. Results
    would show that no body ever wanted breakfast anymore except for in Japan and
    Mexico.
  created: '2010-02-05 15:21:36'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Almost Nick, but your example isn\u2019t about cognitive fluency. With reading,
    the main effect isn't about the speed, ease, or completeness of the reading itself,
    but about the effect on cognition. People estimated that the completion of non-reading
    tasks would be faster after reading about them with better typography. In your
    example, we don\u2019t care if people eat fruit loops faster or more completely.
    Instead we\u2019re interested in what effects the more delicious breakfast has
    on your cognition. Will the more delicious breakfast make people predict that
    they will complete a later task more successfully?\r\n\r\nI completely agree with
    you that newspaper accounts of scientific inquiries are too often misleading or
    completely wrong. I thought the Boston Globe article I pointed to was well written.
    \r\n"
  created: '2010-02-05 15:22:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Will the more delicious breakfast make people predict that they will
    complete a later task more successfully?</em>\r\n\r\nWhen tasting, task-prediction
    isn't relevant to cognitive perception.\r\nIt's not the cognitive purpose of tasting
    food to instruct people on how to complete tasks, as was the case with looking
    at the recipe cards.\r\nThe purpose of tasting food is to determine, or predict
    if you like, whether it's good to eat.\r\n\r\nSurely the principle of \"if it
    tastes bad, don't eat it\" concerns the principle of cognitive fluency, as applied
    to mental processing of taste perceptions.\r\n\r\nIn my cereal test, measurement
    of how much, or how fast the participants eat, indicates the degree of cognitive
    fluency they are experiencing tasting the food. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-05 18:33:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Kevin: <em>People estimated that the completion of non-reading tasks would
    be faster after reading about them with better typography.</em>\r\n\r\nWhich is
    why I'm inclined to suspect that the subjects didn't understand anything about
    the nature of the non-reading task. Anyone who has made sushi before already knows
    how long these tasks are going to take, and that experience will inform their
    estimation. So what the results of the study suggest to me is that typography
    influences cognition in the absence of other cognitive 'handles'."
  created: '2010-02-05 21:42:57'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "<em>So what the results of the study suggest to me is that typography influences
    cognition in the absence of other cognitive 'handles'.</em>\r\n\r\nI\u2019m sure
    that you are correct that your experiences will impact your task time estimations.
    Cognitive fluency predicts that if you find it easy to make sushi-rolls, you will
    underestimate how long it actually takes, and you will overestimate how long it
    takes if you think they are difficult to make. People are not particularly accurate
    at estimating the duration of tasks even if they just completed the task. I\u2019ve
    asked study participants how long they just had been reading. With a better typography
    condition, I found people underestimating how long they were just reading by 25%
    on average (discussed at ATypI-Helsinki).\r\n\r\nI would still bet that sushi-roll
    making participants will also predict that sushi-roll making is faster when reading
    the recipe with the good typographic condition than the poor typographic condition.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-05 23:43:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Kevin: <em>I would still bet that sushi-roll making participants will also
    predict that sushi-roll making is faster when reading the recipe with the good
    typographic condition than the poor typographic condition.</em>\r\n\r\nAgreed.
    I would be interested, though, to know if such estimations were closer to accurate
    than those of inexperienced sushi makers."
  created: '2010-02-06 01:19:06'
date: '2008-10-31 21:28:02'
node_type: forum
title: Song and Schwarz love affair with Arial rolls on...

---
