---
author:
  name: Ulrich22
  picture: 116133
body: "I know this question has been asked dozens of times but does anybody no where
  i can get NeutraFace Display Thin or the set free? I visited this site months ago
  and a user and i donwloaded it free. Please can anybody give me this free, cuz im
  broke, i cant buy it for 243.\r\nPlease, whoever user has it please i have a copy.\r\n\r\nI
  will be using the fonts for very important college essays and on my videos for acceptance
  into Video Production schools. Please if you have it i really need it."
comments:
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: What will you be using the fonts for?
  created: '2008-11-02 17:28:02'
- author:
    name: Ulrich22
    picture: 116133
  body: I will be using the fonts for very important college essays and on my videos
    for acceptance into Video Production schools. Please if you have it i really need
    it.
  created: '2008-11-02 17:47:48'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Nobody here will tell you where to get commercial fonts for free. Instead
    of worrying about fonts you can\u2019t afford, look at the fonts you can. <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/PurchaseOptions?familyid=79195&id[]=159302\">Museo
    Sans can be purchased in individual weights for $16.50 or as inexpensive packages.</a>"
  created: '2008-11-02 18:17:33'
- author:
    name: Ulrich22
    picture: 116133
  body: Somebody here on this website has it, i downloaded it from here b4, and i
    cant order things online, cuz i live in the bahamas and have no credit card. Please
    if someone has it, can ihave a copy of NEutraface please.
  created: '2008-11-02 19:14:00'
- author:
    name: Ulrich22
    picture: 116133
  body: Please
  created: '2008-11-02 21:35:06'
- author:
    name: "G\xFCnniGutenberg"
  body: "uuuhm....\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nNo."
  created: '2008-11-02 22:08:53'
- author:
    name: clashmore
    picture: 114206
  body: "Alright, what the hell, I'll give it to you.\r\n\r\nSIKE! "
  created: '2008-11-02 22:53:47'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "So, first you were broke, and now it\u2019s the missing credit card.\r\nAnd:
    Last time I checked Florida was not part of the Bahamas (that\u2019d carry the
    Swing State thing a little too far).\r\n\r\nGo here:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/wiki/FAQ_free\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-02 23:08:18'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "i strongly believe that a good designer can use whatever tools they have
    available to make great work. of course pro fonts are better than non-pro ones,
    but i've seen plenty of examples of work done with legal, free (or cheap)fonts,
    that is great.\r\n\r\nif you can't afford to buy pro fonts, look for quality free
    type, or stretch yourself and see hoe you can make the bundled system fonts work
    for you. \r\n\r\nalso, i know this has been said before, but if you do get into
    video production, and start making videos, do you expect people to buy them from
    you? if yes, then why are you happy to not pay for fonts that are not free?\r\n\r\nhave
    you heard the saying 'what goes around, comes around'?"
  created: '2008-11-03 00:23:34'
- author:
    name: solfeggio
    picture: 112465
  body: "FWIW, the user profile links to a YouTube \"homepage\" (http://youtube.com/ulrich228)
    which in turn reveals (possibly falsely, possibly not) that Ulrich22, a.k.a. Camden
    Brooks (?), is a high school kid, purported \"video production schools\" notwithstanding.
    In any case, twerps ain't allowed to play with grownup typefaces &mdash; unless,
    of course, they can filch daddy's credit card or otherwise pony up requisite cash.
    \r\n\r\n\"Somebody here on this website has it,\" he says. Doubtless true enough,
    as a plain declarative, but they <em>paid for</em> such wares (i.e., not warez).
    He further claims to have \"downloaded it from here b4\". Not a chance, lad. Not
    on a bet.\r\n\r\n'Nuf said? No? Then go here: http://typophile.com/wiki/FAQ_free"
  created: '2008-11-03 01:02:23'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: Perhaps Ulrich22 is trying to communicate through his avatar to tell us that
    he eventually will join the good side.
  created: '2008-11-03 01:04:46'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: I have a copy. What color do you need it in?
  created: '2008-11-03 01:26:26'
- author:
    name: Ulrich22
    picture: 116133
  body: Black or any colour,post the link please.
  created: '2008-11-03 01:52:55'
- author:
    name: Ulrich22
    picture: 116133
  body: Please
  created: '2008-11-03 01:59:23'
- author:
    name: quicksilversigns
    picture: 114705
  body: Where does Florida get mixed into this?
  created: '2008-11-03 02:08:38'
- author:
    name: Ulrich22
    picture: 116133
  body: "I live in the bahamas so i cant order those things and i have no credit card\r\nPlease
    jupiterboy, i you have can i have a copy please."
  created: '2008-11-03 11:21:35'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: Ulrich, this is called pirating. It is ILLEGAL to give out copies of licensed
    typefaces. When you license a typeface you license it for a certain use. Whether
    you live in the Bahamas, or Timbuktu, you should make the most of the tools you
    have. If your acceptance into school is dependent upon having a copy of Neutraface,
    then you have bigger problems than a lack of fonts. Find some freeware fonts to
    use instead. Good luck.
  created: '2008-11-03 14:12:12'
- author:
    name: victor ivanov
    picture: 111726
  body: "what's really funny is that he actually asked for this on Typophile, a place
    where people probably count pilcrows instead of sheep prior to going to sleep.\r\nspeaking
    of sleep, i sure need some...\r\ni like pilcrows."
  created: '2008-11-03 14:39:12'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Maybe you should try these new, free, Dalton Maag fonts instead: http://www.dmjx.dk/presserum/skrift.html
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-03 14:52:12'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: "Here's another good, FREE, typeface you can use:\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/50437"
  created: '2008-11-03 15:11:14'
- author:
    name: Ulrich22
    picture: 116133
  body: Thanks for nothing
  created: '2008-11-03 21:01:37'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "It's not (just) that you are asking for illegal copies of a font, it's that
    you're doing it here.\r\n\r\nIt's like walking into the police station to ask
    where you could score some pot."
  created: '2008-11-03 21:31:25'
- author:
    name: bemerx25
    picture: 112539
  body: Since he's paying nothing, it must mean the advice is priceless!
  created: '2008-11-03 21:39:26'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "You are welcome. Your enthusiasm is admirable, however you did not ever get
    a pirated font from Typophile nor will you ever.\r\n\r\nThis thread reminds me
    of the junkie that ran up to the cop and complained that someone stole his dope."
  created: '2008-11-03 23:34:39'
- author:
    name: cslem1
  body: "Wow, I can't believe this thread has gone on this far. Ulrich, I do understand
    the love of a font, and the deep deep desire to own a copy that you could use...but
    there are rules and laws. Buy it, or find a version that you can afford. No one
    here will give it to you, and if they do, it's a shame.\r\n\r\nInstead of asking
    for the font, ask people where you can find close versions for an affordable price,
    there are TONS of similar fonts for almost everyone worth owning. To an untrained
    eye, it will look practically identical. That is a question you will have answered
    with enthusiasm from this board.\r\n\r\ncourtney"
  created: '2008-11-04 00:10:10'
- author:
    name: Ulrich22
    picture: 116133
  body: im telling you, i got a copy from this website before when somebody asked
    the same question
  created: '2008-11-04 01:06:12'
- author:
    name: brockfrench
    picture: 113153
  body: I have a copy I can mail you. What is your home address & telephone number?
    (lulz)
  created: '2008-11-04 14:50:58'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: Camden, no one is going to send you the fonts. they're not free. please stop
    asking. thanks.
  created: '2008-11-04 15:22:50'
- author:
    name: PLEASE_CANCEL_ME
  body: "Hey, does anyone have the H&FJ library i could have?\r\n\r\njames\r\n\r\nhehe,
    i couldn't resist."
  created: '2008-11-04 16:56:30'
- author:
    name: innovati
    picture: 114494
  body: "oh hey itc_james, I had a great idea, why don't I submit a r\xE9sum\xE9 to
    H&FJ this week....but I don't own any of their fonts :-(  \r\n\r\nIf you get all
    of the H&FJ library I'd love to borrow a few from you so I can use them in Word
    when I make my r\xE9sum\xE9, I think they'd really appreciate seeing their fonts
    used in professional software like Word and really impressed that I actually bothered
    to download their fonts!\r\n\r\n*sigh, rolls eyes*"
  created: '2008-11-04 17:16:17'
- author:
    name: Dan B.
    picture: 114033
  body: Ulrich must have downloaded the font before using his old account, since the
    current was registered just before he asked for it... ;-)
  created: '2008-11-04 19:34:55'
- author:
    name: Ulrich22
    picture: 116133
  body: Yea i did
  created: '2008-11-04 20:47:47'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: Commercial fonts are worth the money.
  created: '2008-11-04 23:38:08'
- author:
    name: gerald
  body: Most school essays &c. are set with Comic Sans. Try that, it's almost identical
    to Neutraface.
  created: '2008-11-05 06:38:22'
- author:
    name: innovati
    picture: 114494
  body: "Well, looking at this from the other perspective, although it's not impossible,
    it's unlikely our friend Ulrich is using any sort of professional typesetting
    software for his essay anyway, so the majority of the advanced features in a pro
    font could never be used anyway.\r\n\r\nIf he's using a simple word processor
    like Word of OpenOffice he won't even have abilities like kerning or any sort
    of meaningful control over the type.\r\n\r\nUlrich22, yes, I agree with you that
    Neutraface looks nice, but for high school the teachers often require Times New
    Roman.\r\n\r\nBefore using any custom typeface at all, check with you teacher
    to see what they expect.  For my english classes I had Font, Size, Spacing, Margins
    all required to be specific values.  We didn't get marks off if it was wrong,
    in my school if it was wrong it didn't get marked. The end.\r\n\r\nI'm gonna make
    a suggestion, don't tear me apart on this one.  For me, when I look at Neutraface,
    it reminds me of the same feeling as Futura and Century Gothic. (especially the
    Capitals)  Check to see if you have Futura or Century Gothic already, you often
    have one of the two pre-installed.\r\n\r\nBest of luck,\r\ninnovati!"
  created: '2008-11-05 13:51:05'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Yea i did\"\r\n\r\nOK, you win. Have a good day!"
  created: '2008-11-05 16:28:35'
- author:
    name: Scott Leyes
    picture: 112337
  body: "Tahoma = Neutraface (just kidding)\r\n\r\nWhat irks me is that Ulrich is
    so pissed off... hey guy, maybe you DID download the font from here (which I seriously
    doubt), but it's not here any more. Get over it, and don't flame the folks that
    are telling you so. We all use fonts, and we actually BUY them.\r\n\r\nI'm not
    made of money either, but I bought Neutraface (and Neutra2 when it was released)
    -- I haven't recouped my investment yet, but probably will eventually. But as
    a (occasional) type designer, I take issue with the idea of posting them for free.
    Yes, (unscrupulous) people do it, but NOT HERE. \r\n\r\nTry limewire.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-06 00:38:42'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Did Hrant use a new Nomen to get all of us Typophiles excited?\r\n\r\nI wonder.\r\n\r\n.
    . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2008-11-06 00:43:42'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "It's the attitude more than the request that appalls me. Not everyone (especially
    a high school kid) knows about font piracy, he made what he thought was an innocent
    request. More educated minds on this forum told him his request was illegal and
    now he's pissed!\r\n\r\nUlrich, if you are still reading, you learned something
    here - that font sharing is illegal. Rather than get all nasty about it, use a
    free font for your school project (people were kind enough to send you some links)
    and try to save up some money to buy Neutraface down the road. It is a lovely
    font but NOBODY here is going to give it to you.\r\n\r\nBTW anyone have a copy
    of Nobel they can send me? Jes kiddin'...."
  created: '2008-11-06 19:50:18'
- author:
    name: xtianhoff
  body: "I want to thank Camden/Ulrich/BahamaBob and all the Typophiles for the most
    enjoyable read I've had all week.\r\n\r\nThis does sort of have an Papazianian
    feel to it. If this is Hrant, bravo!"
  created: '2008-11-06 20:30:51'
- author:
    name: Jasonrobb
    picture: 112635
  body: "You guys are so stingy with the typefaces!\r\n\r\nHere you go Ulrich: {link
    removed by moderator}\r\n\r\nEnjoy! \"NeutraFace\" in all it's glory!"
  created: '2008-11-06 20:45:21'
- author:
    name: pbusell
  body: I am looking for a postscript version of this Neutra typeface--or a suggestion
    of something similar. Can anyone help?
  created: '2008-11-06 20:46:12'
- author:
    name: innovati
    picture: 114494
  body: "this thread would never give me up, it would never let me down, it would
    never run around or desert me.\r\n\r\nI hope a lesson has been learned here these
    past couple of days..."
  created: '2008-11-06 20:53:59'
- author:
    name: jonsel
    picture: 111354
  body: "<em>a place where people probably count pilcrows instead of sheep</em>\r\n\r\nI
    thought we counted stolen sheep."
  created: '2008-11-06 21:10:49'
- author:
    name: kolber
    picture: 116076
  body: Hilarious.
  created: '2008-11-06 21:12:32'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: He probably gave up and went with Century Gothic?
  created: '2008-11-06 21:34:05'
- author:
    name: Chuck Green
    picture: 116170
  body: "For what its worth, here's my take on font piracy.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.ideabook.com/tutorials/design_business/the_suicide_of_design.html\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-06 21:59:33'
- author:
    name: Kooldez
    picture: 111501
  body: "Ulrich is 14 or so...\r\nWere you never 14?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-06 22:05:18'
- author:
    name: Ulrich22
    picture: 116133
  body: "Umm this topic probably doesnt need to continue, cause today i attained the
    entire NeutraFace set, by doing some serious google searching.\r\nBut you guys
    were helpful and taught me alot even tho its illegal, i just love the font, im
    sorry.\r\nNo more font sharing after this for me, i got my NeutraFace wish."
  created: '2008-11-06 23:28:05'
- author:
    name: Kooldez
    picture: 111501
  body: "There you go.\r\nFire is out and a lot learnt...\r\n\r\n\r\nGood luck Ulrich\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-06 23:36:41'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: 'good for you? '
  created: '2008-11-07 06:04:18'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "After reading this thread one thing is apparent\u2014they can\u2019t teach
    honesty at school.\r\n\r\nWhen I get old this is the generation that\u2019s is
    going to care of me?\r\n\r\nMikey :-/"
  created: '2008-11-07 07:09:20'
- author:
    name: innovati
    picture: 114494
  body: "SuperUltraFabulous, I how do you think adults of the time felt during the
    hippie movement?  look where they are now...\r\n\r\nTimes change, people mature,
    and there is nothing new under the sun.  People are people and will always be
    the same way."
  created: '2008-11-07 07:20:56'
- author:
    name: Ulrich22
    picture: 116133
  body: "All im saying is i got my desired font and learnt my lesson.\r\nBut i think
    i can learn alot from this site, because im a font freak too.\r\nIm sometimes
    wonder if its Normal when i see posters around and know the exact font of it."
  created: '2008-11-07 11:49:39'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: did you really learn a lesson though? i don't think a lesson is ever really
    learned unless it is translated into a course of action. maybe you'll learn the
    lesson next time...
  created: '2008-11-07 12:28:37'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "@ James Puckett\r\n\r\nWell done for suggesting sensible alternatives!"
  created: '2008-11-07 13:08:48'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: Damn kids. GET OFF THE LAWN!
  created: '2008-11-07 13:47:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"a place where people probably count pilcrows instead of sheep\"\r\n\r\nAs
    long as they don't shag sheep:-).\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-11-07 14:35:24'
- author:
    name: innovati
    picture: 114494
  body: I wonder if Ulrich still would have learned his lesson had google not turned
    up what he was looking for.
  created: '2008-11-07 14:46:26'
- author:
    name: Ulrich22
    picture: 116133
  body: Actually yea i did, i had found a free font that looked just like Neutraface,but
    i cam across this page on a font site where someone said their secret to find
    fonts free on google, and i decided to do it and found Neutraface on google, the
    complete set. I had learnt mylesson when i got the font that looked just like
    Neutraface font named(Fusi)but when i cam across the page i just decided to give
    the secret a try and it worked.
  created: '2008-11-07 22:06:55'
- author:
    name: innovati
    picture: 114494
  body: "You know, I really want a Car.  I mean, I can continue taking the bus here
    around town and it takes me everywhere I go, but I want to spice things up a little.
    \ I saw a car I wanted, but I didn't have enough money for it.\r\n\r\nI could
    find somebody who has one and maybe they'd give it to me.  But I tried that and
    it didn't work.\r\n\r\nI found a car that somebody was giving away that looked
    almost like it, but that's not good enough for me.\r\n\r\nI went to google and
    I found instructions on how to hotwire it, so I did!  I learned my lesson today
    that stealing cars is wrong, but I went out and did it anyway.\r\n\r\nNow that
    I know how to hotwire cars and have already shown that if I want one enough I
    can easily justify stealing it, I promise a group of strangers that I'll never
    do it again.\r\n\r\n\r\nI think the point of you really having learned a lesson
    is that you would have found the font, and not taken it.  Character isn't what
    you do when the spotlight is on you and everybody is watching, character is whether
    or not you do what you do when <em>nobody</em> can see you, and you're all alone."
  created: '2008-11-07 22:36:23'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: ^ this would make a really moving puppet show for VBS.
  created: '2008-11-08 00:43:44'
- author:
    name: Ulrich22
    picture: 116133
  body: "innovati i get your point. I still haven't learn my lesson, but at the end
    of the day i attained my font and satisfied. Sorry i didnt pay for it, if i had
    the money i would. thats all im saying.\r\nCase closed."
  created: '2008-11-08 03:05:54'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I saw a car I wanted, but I didn\u2019t have enough money for it.\"\r\n\r\nHe's
    not stealing a car. \r\n\r\nYea, using unlicensed software is not nice, but let's
    not get carried away with our analogies."
  created: '2008-11-08 03:28:55'
- author:
    name: innovati
    picture: 114494
  body: "true, the product may not be the same, but the attitude, mentality and decision
    making process <em>is</em>!\r\n\r\nDon't graphic designers go through the same
    design process no matter what size of project they make?\r\n\r\nI'm trying to
    dig past the object he's taking, and go deeper into what he thinks about it.\r\n\r\nWould
    you be satisfied if you hadn't gotten the font, in the end?\r\n\r\nNow that you
    have taken it, will you, as soon as you have the money, go ahead and pay the back,
    or simply keep what you have stolen and make no attempt at repaying them when
    money does come along?\r\n\r\nI won't deny ever having pirated something, but
    I find it hard being one of the few in my college who pays for Adobe's wonderful
    software tying to explain to people that you get what you pay for.  I'm a big
    fan of open-source software, free or shared licencing, creative-commons and I'd
    love to see everything under that licence, but some things cost money to make,
    and if i want to see them continue, I'm very happy to trade my money for somebody
    else's work.  Car or typeface.\r\n\r\nCase closed."
  created: '2008-11-08 08:33:00'
- author:
    name: Ulrich22
    picture: 116133
  body: Yea...
  created: '2008-11-08 13:18:47'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: I think what Ulrich22 doesn't get is that he is robbing another person, or
    rather other people, in this case Christian Schwartz and the folks at House Industries
    who market Neutraface. The font seems very abstract, but behind it are real people,
    who don't get paid for their work.
  created: '2008-11-08 15:24:47'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\r\n\"I think what Ulrich22 doesn\u2019t get is that he is robbing another
    person\"\r\n\r\nHe's not. He's infringing upon someone's copyright. For his own
    use. Not for profit.\r\n\r\nYes, wrong. But a very different shade of gray than
    grand theft auto.\r\n\r\nWe've gone astray, though. Through this long crazy thread,
    I think we've lost sight of the real question: Why is 90210 using Neutraface?\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-08 21:35:56'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: :-D
  created: '2008-11-10 04:58:03'
- author:
    name: innovati
    picture: 114494
  body: "fonts aren't like songs or movies, they are software.\r\n\r\nObtaining and
    using software outside of the license it's sold or released under, is theft, not
    copyright infringement."
  created: '2008-11-10 05:04:02'
- author:
    name: cslem1
  body: "I don't think it's the act that it appalling, it's the fact that he came
    to a place full of type designers...people that actually live off of designing
    type (not just by the money, but the love of doing the job) and ask us to give
    him something that a fellow type designer(s) spent A LONG time and effort into
    doing. There should just be some acknowledgment that what is has done and will
    defiantly do in the future (regardless of what he claims)...is very very wrong.
    It's just a slap in the face, saying that saving up for a great font is not worth
    it if you can google search and find it.\r\n\r\ncourtney"
  created: '2008-11-10 17:10:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Perhaps it is just the ease of getting things on the internet that is at
    fault but it seems a fair number of today's young people not only see no wrong-doing
    in getting pirated fonts but feel that they are entitalled to get them free just
    because they want to. Sometimes you have to earn something or earn the money to
    buy something. The \"I am young so it is ok\" rationalization just doesn't cut
    it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-11-10 18:20:54'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "It's fine to chastise someone for not respecting copyright law. It's a good
    thing. It should be done. \r\n\r\nBut when we get carried away with it ala the
    RIAA, then we're not really helping the cause and are only aggravating the situation.
    We become the grumpy old man yelling at the kids to get off the lawn. \r\n\r\nYea,
    that'll keep some of the kids off his lawn. It'll also likely get his house egged
    at some point.\r\n\r\nIt's incorrect to equate digital copyright infringement
    with a) property theft and b) pirating for profit (reselling) because it isn't
    the same as either of those.\r\n\r\nIt's akin to the anti-gay marriage folks trying
    to equate gay marriage with bestiality and polygamy. There is no correlation and
    only makes the person arguing that look more insane in the eyes of the opposition."
  created: '2008-11-10 18:52:57'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "hahaha! Typophile doesn't like the term for 'human-animal intercourse', I
    guess.\r\n\r\nUh...er...not that I blame 'em! ;o)"
  created: '2008-11-10 18:55:01'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">The \u201CI am young so it is ok\u201D rationalization just doesn\u2019t
    cut it.\r\n\r\nWe should revisit this in ten years. How will Ulrich22 feel then
    about people downloading movies and what-not from the Web? By then he will have
    graduated from film school top of his class, and will be a few years into his
    new career - assuming of course that McDonalds hasn't completely automated the
    burger flipping process by then. ;-)\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-10 19:13:45'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Who knows, maybe we will be stealing cows to make our own burgers.
  created: '2008-11-10 19:31:37'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Darryl, isn't the only difference here that intellectual property, rather
    than tangible property, is being stolen? \r\n\r\nYou seem to be saying we shouldn't
    chastise the thief because he might be peeved with us. I say, let him be peeved.
    \r\n\r\nFutile efforts of any kind are not recommended, but that fact that good
    enforcement doesn't exist for a lot of digital property doesn't mean we should
    get confused about what is wrong, or the harm done.\r\n\r\nI have a lot more sympathy
    from someone from a poor country violating copyright than I do for students in
    general, by the way.  "
  created: '2008-11-10 19:57:42'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"You seem to be saying we shouldn\u2019t chastise the thief because he might
    be peeved with us\"\r\n\r\nNot at all. I specifically stated \"It\u2019s fine
    to chastise someone for not respecting copyright law.\"\r\n\r\n\"isn\u2019t the
    only difference here\"\r\n\r\nThat's more what I'm getting at. There are many,
    many differences. IP laws aren't black and white, nor are the harms done by various
    types of infringement.\r\n\r\nWhen a group vilifies a certain group above and
    beyond their true crime, they risk being ignored as a whole. \"Reefer Madness\"
    didn't get taken as seriously as the producers had hoped. Suing grandma for downloading
    Brittney spears didn't garner the Record labels much respect. I'm just trying
    to make it clear that there's a line there somewhere when chastising jumps into
    'crazy old cat lady' territory and people like Ulrich start rolling their eyes
    at us.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-10 20:59:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "But saying, \"That's OK, little Ulrich, at least you are not stealing cars.\"
    does not make it clear enough to Ulrich that he is supporting and encouraging
    criminal activity. Letting him off the hook morally encourages his behavior with
    a subtext of \"it is ok to commit small crimes\".\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-11-10 21:20:09'
- author:
    name: Kooldez
    picture: 111501
  body: "Omg! This topic's still alive?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-10 21:41:15'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"But saying, \u201CThat\u2019s OK, little Ulrich, at least you are not stealing
    cars.\u201D\"\r\n\r\nI think that on Typophile, people see this as black and white.
    You are either an evil pirate out to destroy the type designers life, or you are
    a hard working type designer who must put every person who has an illegal copy
    of a font in jail.\r\n\r\nNow, to be fair, that makes sense in the context of
    what this place is...a place for type designers (which makes the OP's original
    request all the more ironic).\r\n\r\nAll I'm trying to do is bring some perspective
    into the picture. If you truly want to get through to these folks, we need to
    be pragmatic about it. He's *not* stealing a car, but what he's doing isn't right,
    either.\r\n\r\nIf this place were Mormonphile, I'd probably have a tough time
    convincing anyone that gay marriage is NOT the worst crime in human history.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-10 22:14:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "You are talking about descrimination there, not the same.\r\n\r\nAt any rate,
    we could argue this till the cows come home and not agree. I am not saying that
    stealing fonts is as big a crime as stealing type. I am saying that it is a crime--perhaps
    more on the level of shoplifting. You do still go to jail for shoplifting though.
    \ This was my last post to this thread. Kooldez is right, we have run it far past
    what it was worth.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-11-10 22:49:39'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "I hate it when the cows come home and don\u2019t agree."
  created: '2008-11-10 23:01:06'
- author:
    name: Ulrich22
    picture: 116133
  body: "Listen guys\r\nHow am i the one who stole font?\r\nI just was simply interested
    in NEutraface and searched google for it only to find out that its a pay font
    and while searching the through link is saw somebody had the file in their website
    index obviously they had bought it and uploaded it. (Link removed by moderation.)\r\nI
    just simply came across in my search, and just clicked it and download it.\r\nYou
    guys just took this way out of proportion saying that i violating laws and metapohrically
    refering my situation to stealing a car.\r\n\r\nThis is how i will refer it to
    that.\r\n\"Somebody bought a car. They decided they probably werent interested
    in the car so they put the car on their yard saying its free for takes. I go up
    to yard ask for keys and drive off with car.\"\r\n\r\nnow tell me how that sounds?
    cuz thats all i did. did i steal the car? The person who owned the site where
    i got neutraface from knew that when its on a separate page anybody else can download
    it.\r\nIm sure some of you will agree with me.\r\nEven though i became aware that
    the car was free, picture this scenario\r\nI was looking for a Ford Camaro. I
    saw one that was for sale for cash and another that the owner was just giving
    away for free. What do i do? Hmmmm?\r\nAnswer that."
  created: '2008-11-10 23:09:38'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Please edit that link out of your post. Thanks.
  created: '2008-11-10 23:19:42'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Just because you found the font through Google and some site (which will
    be getting an email shortly) posts it in a public way DOES NOT mean it is free
    to download. '
  created: '2008-11-10 23:24:54'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Ulrich - it does seem that you still don't understand font copyrights. Everyone
    who uses the font has to license it. If I license Neutraface I am not allowed
    to just pass the font on to whoever I please, unless I transfer the license to
    them and stop using it myself. Whoever had the font on their site was breaking
    the law, and by downloading it so were you.\r\n\r\nThis thread has gotten a bit
    out of hand, but I do find it disturbing that you still don't see that what you
    did was wrong. Just because someone is offering a pirated font for free does NOT
    make it ok to download it.\r\n\r\n>Im sure some of you will agree with me.\r\n\r\nNo,
    I don't think so. Maybe when you grow up you will understand."
  created: '2008-11-10 23:39:14'
- author:
    name: Ulrich22
    picture: 116133
  body: "Yes i understand it was wrong, but at the time i wasnt thinking about it.
    what do you want me to do about it? delete the font from my computer? will that
    make everything better.\r\nThe fact is i understand that was wrong what i did
    but i cant do anything about it. It was on the site and i downloaded it, its too
    late. and mistiffany, no purpose sending them an email cuz the site has been checked
    in a while.\r\n\r\ncase closed."
  created: '2008-11-11 01:31:22'
- author:
    name: Ulrich22
    picture: 116133
  body: "I understand this situatuion distrubs and concerns most of you because you
    are typefacers, and i aplogoize and my apologies to the creators of the font and
    House Industries.\r\n\r\nI'd like to learn about creating fonts and stuff so i
    wont have to download them unknowing they aren't free anymore."
  created: '2008-11-11 01:34:34'
- author:
    name: guiyong
    picture: 115599
  body: "I search also this free fonts? Maybe my new post could have an amalgamation
    here?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/51522"
  created: '2008-11-11 01:53:22'
- author:
    name: robbiefa
    picture: 113487
  body: "I'm going to try be very careful how I approach this thread as the topic
    is so heated. I really don't want an onslaught of hate towards myself.\r\n\r\nI
    would say the majority of typophilers have used a pirated version of a typeface
    at one point or another. <em>With the exception of a hardcore few of course.</em>
    As a recent design graduate I can understand Ulrich's need and want for a typeface.
    I find very little harm in a student using a typeface for personal college projects,
    once they understand and appreciate the value of the typeface. \r\n\r\nI would
    then encourage the student to pass on the enthusiasm & knowlegde for typography
    to his clients in the future. This is the point when a typeface should never be
    illegally used \u2013 <em>when there will be profit made from it's use.</em>\r\n\r\nIf
    type designers would like to encourage people to buy their fonts they should market
    accordingly. Lets face it, we're in a world of free music, free videos and free
    software. Just look at Museo for a prime example of how to promote a typeface
    in this modern era of piracy. Remember it's just like fishing.\r\n\r\nI hope this
    doesn't offend anyone, I just think it's smart to pick your battles. \r\n\r\nRobbie."
  created: '2008-11-11 02:42:12'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: The fountain isn't here nor can it bound found by starting here. But there
    are some foundries who have some fonts with free (or non-commercial) licenses
    and those are included in the <a href="http://typophile.com/node/44453?">FAQ Free
    Fonts</a> in the Typowiki.
  created: '2008-11-11 02:43:00'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"You are talking about descrimination there, not the same.\"\r\n\r\nI was
    referring to the context of the crowd I'm speaking too.\r\n\r\nI also don't think
    we disagree. We're on the same side of the argument. We're just wearing slightly
    different shades of gray.\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-11 03:03:19'
- author:
    name: Jasonrobb
    picture: 112635
  body: "It's come to my attention that at least one person actually thinks I posted
    Neutraface to this thread. When indeed I did not!\r\n\r\nFor the record, the link
    I posted above, which was \"removed by moderator\" was in fact a renamed Century
    Gothic.\r\n\r\nPerhaps a lame trick to play, but it was found humorous by at least
    one other person on this thread, Tom Hodgins.\r\n\r\nIf I've ruffled any feathers,
    or offended anyone, I am sincerely sorry. It was a mistake to JOKE about sharing
    fonts. \r\n\r\nClearly, I won't consider joking about such a serious offense on
    Typophile ever again. Pardon my immaturity. I'll check it at the door from now
    on.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nJason Robb"
  created: '2008-11-11 03:08:05'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Jason, I think you got cleaned in a general sweep, which may have included
    a link to download the font in question as well as whatever you had linked to.
    FWIW
  created: '2008-11-11 03:17:57'
- author:
    name: Jasonrobb
    picture: 112635
  body: "Thanks, but I received an email from one of the House Industry boys, reprimanding
    my actions.\r\n\r\nIt was originally linked to Rick Roll'd. *Sigh* should have
    left it as such.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oHg5SJYRHA0"
  created: '2008-11-11 03:39:55'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/90210_poster_5808.jpg]\r\n\r\nI feel
    weird saying this, but...Neutraface actually kind of works in that context. Odd."
  created: '2008-11-11 04:07:17'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Jason I can stand by what you said. I'll make sure they know who did what
    and where. I thought it was funny.
  created: '2008-11-11 06:49:34'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>The fact is i understand that was wrong what i did but i cant do anything
    about it.</em>\r\n\r\nthis is what is wrong with America (and most likely the
    rest of the world) in general. people refuse to be responsible for their own actions:
    'it was the circumstances that made me do it!' i find this a very poor excuse
    for bad behavior. (yes, it's not murder, but still bad behavior is just that:
    bad)"
  created: '2008-11-11 12:11:46'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: 'And clearly the remedy is understood because he mentions deleting the files. '
  created: '2008-11-11 12:33:01'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Well, perhaps when he gets decent employment after his schooling he might
    decide to actually purchase the fonts.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-11 18:02:24'
- author:
    name: cslem1
  body: "we can only hope.\r\n\r\ncourtney"
  created: '2008-11-11 22:46:46'
- author:
    name: Ulrich22
    picture: 116133
  body: "Im glad we've all come to an agreement.\r\nAny further comments before this
    thread is officially put to rest?"
  created: '2008-11-11 22:48:55'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: 90210 again, hollywood is really running out of Ideas.  Well at least there
    is a African American in the mix.  Back to the issue, don't compare font theft
    with car theft it is just plain ridiculous (230$ font 30,00$ car).  The kid made
    a mistake he is only 14!  with the introduction of the internet it is impossible
    to stop font theft and more important software piracy.  At one point we all have
    committed this crime (font's and software) wether one likes to admitted it or
    not. When I was a student I had to use unauthorized copies of software, however
    once the money rolled in all of the unauthorized copies were traded in for the
    real deal.
  created: '2008-11-13 21:21:19'
- author:
    name: Ulrich22
    picture: 116133
  body: Anymore comments anyone? Im sure some of you Typefacing Alumnis want to throw
    sumtin in my face.
  created: '2008-11-13 21:50:36'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: no, we're just bored of you and you now. go thy way and sin no more!
  created: '2008-11-13 22:31:59'
- author:
    name: cheshiredave
    picture: 110433
  body: "@Ulrich: the horse has pretty much been beaten to a pulp, and I do think
    you've gotten the message. I will only add two notes:\r\n\r\n1. This is more than
    a lesson about stealing fonts; it's a life lesson that sometimes you can't afford
    the things you want, and if you really want whatever those things are (typefaces,
    cars, elections), you should save up.\r\n\r\n2. You're a young designer. And though
    Neutraface is indeed awesome, I recommend you spend more time getting to know
    the classics. For example, most likely you have Adobe Garamond Pro.* Of course
    it's very different, but it's just as elegant as Neutra in its own way. Become
    an expert with what you have, and you'll become a good enough designer that you'll
    be able to afford any typeface you desire.\r\n\r\n*This is potentially a whole
    other can of worms, as everyone here has his or her favorite Garamond variation.
    But I've loved Adobe Garamond since way before it came bundled, so that's what
    I'm recommending.\r\n\r\n- - - -\r\n\r\n@Jason: The last time I saw this thread
    the link was the RickRoll, and I thought it was hilarious, even though I suspected
    that was where the link was going to go. You're right; you shoulda kept it there.\r\n\r\n-
    - - -\r\n\r\nAnd finally:\r\n\r\n@Jupiterboy: \"What color do you need it in?\"
    FTW!\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-13 22:37:21'
- author:
    name: Ulrich22
    picture: 116133
  body: "Somebody  must have contacted the site where i got Neutraface from cuz it
    isnt up anymore\r\n\r\nwell at least i made backups"
  created: '2008-11-13 23:03:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cuttingThread_3824.JPG]\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-13 23:19:28'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "Dude, Camden - you don't have any idea who you are dealing with. Of course
    your resource isn't distributing Neutra any longer. You said too much on Typophile!
    <strong>p0wned!</strong>\r\n\r\nAlright team. You take his arms and legs and tie
    'em together. Somebody get a blind-fold and some spray paint. I've got an IP address
    and USB key. WHere is Uli? We are going to need him to staple some documents to
    this kid's shirt and stick his head in the toilet."
  created: '2008-11-13 23:57:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/05-toilet_4450.jpg]\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-14 00:27:33'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Maybe we can get Furioustype to talk him to death.
  created: '2008-11-14 01:14:55'
- author:
    name: Ulrich22
    picture: 116133
  body: "Yea Yea\r\nwell if the closed down the page to bad, i have my copies backed
    up. i know i shouldnt have told you where i got it from."
  created: '2008-11-14 01:57:04'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Ulrich> We can talk about you forever if we like. We pay for our licenses.
    You don\u2019t. You are not sorry. So stop checking in on this thread. Go play
    on myspace or something. Your membership to Typophile should deleted anyway."
  created: '2008-11-14 02:15:23'
- author:
    name: Ulrich22
    picture: 116133
  body: mmm hmm sure whatever, the threads dead anyway. Im done. Thank you all for
    you comments and such.
  created: '2008-11-14 22:16:43'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Last word much?
  created: '2008-11-14 23:19:36'
- author:
    name: innovati
    picture: 114494
  body: "I &hearts;\r\njupiterboy"
  created: '2008-11-15 00:01:51'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: heehee
  created: '2008-11-23 23:51:39'
- author:
    name: Ulrich22
    picture: 116133
  body: "After one year ago, I've returned! How are you guys!\r\nP.S. still lovin'
    Neutraface"
  created: '2009-11-08 00:50:27'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: well, not quite a year...
  created: '2009-11-08 12:14:51'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "Although I find Ulrich absolutely annoying, I do think some of you are taking
    everything a bit too seriously. Of course copyrights are serious business, but
    I do wonder why piracy seems to affect you emotionally. Not that it's bad to have
    morals though... In a moment I will shed some light upon an other, deadly serious
    aspect of copyrights. I would also like to say in advance that you are likely
    to disagree with the things I'm going to say, or prove me wrong. And feel free
    to do so. I don't pretend to know everything, but I'm skeptical about the things
    I read in this topic, and which I've read many times before as well. So I have
    my own theories, and you might find it interesting to see it from my perspective.\r\n\r\nI
    must admit I've never bought a typeface once in my life, for the simple fact that
    I have no or little money to spend (I'm a student without time for a job). However
    I do plan on buying all the typefaces I like slowly but surely, probably starting
    with Futura. As a student I think it's slightly justifiable to obtain typefaces
    illegally for the simple fact that although I do commercial work already, it doesn't
    provide me with a constant income yet. So I can perfectly understand Ulrich in
    that sense. However I am offended by the way he approached this community about
    this typeface, especially considering Neutraface isn't that expensive. He is a
    total moron, comes off as unintelligent, and on top of that seems to enjoy the
    attention, whether positive or negative.\r\n\r\nI've read this whole thread and
    it has been both interesting and amusing (especially the comment \"What color
    do you need it in?\"), but you've all shed light on only one aspect of the copyrights,
    which is unlikely to affect Ulrich morally and intellectually. Certainly it's
    bad to go against the law, and certainly the designers should get payed for their
    work, although you're not going to convince me that those designers are poor.
    I get particularly annoyed when someone gives that argument about something of
    a larger scale, like Adobe or Microsoft products. They have a constant income
    of millions of dollars, so relatively speaking piracy doesn't seem so bad in that
    context. But I'm dwelling off. The other aspect of copyrights is that it protects
    you as a customer as well, and that's the aspect that Ulrich doesn't seem to realize
    yet. It's easy to say piracy is a bad thing, but you rarely hear about the consequences.
    As a full-fledged designer doing commercial work, you will protect yourself by
    purchasing typefaces. If one of the organizations find out you make use of illegal
    software or illegal typefaces (in my country there is an organization called BREIN
    whom actually does check commercial designers), you will risk getting a mighty
    fine as large as the price of a house. You will be paying that debt off for the
    duration of your career. If Ulrich wants to take that risk, by all means let him
    be. It doesn't affect you.\r\n\r\nMay I remind you that the creators of these
    products are not losing money due to piracy. Most of them are full-fledged designers
    with a constant income, and the selling of typefaces serves as extra income. If
    it would be their only income, their products would be a lot cheaper. It's true
    that a designer will invest a lot of time into the creation of a typeface, but
    let's compare it with the music industry. A band also invests a lot of time into
    creating their music, but their CD's aren't for sale for $50 or more, but for
    $20 or less. Also, the price of their CD doesn't depend on the quality or success
    of their music. A band like Muse can't ask $100 for a CD just because they're
    considered brilliant by many. The typefaces industry differs quite dramatically
    in that aspect, as the goal isn't to sell as many licenses as possible. The Ensched\xE9
    Font Foundry for example comes off as elite, with font families between 2000 and
    3000 euro. I absolutely love their typefaces, but I highly doubt there is a change
    in quality compared to Neutraface for example, so why is it 5 times more expensive
    (especially considering the fact that Neutraface consists of 71 fonts)?\r\n\r\nAlso
    keep in mind that although piracy is illegal (and should be), there's a big difference
    between stealing and copying. I'm tired of the comparison with stealing cars.
    If I could obtain a car by illegally copying it from an other car, and the initial
    car remains unaffected and still belongs to the original owner, I would be MUCH
    more likely to take the risk and go against the law. It might be unethical, but
    don't take it too seriously. And may I also remind you that in many cases, the
    copyright of a typeface doesn't belong to the initial designer, so it's not even
    certain they will see some or any of the money regenerated from selling licenses.
    It's the same with a band and a label. The band makes the music and the label
    gets most of the profit."
  created: '2010-01-01 07:00:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Unlike music, a typeface is a tool used to help make a product which is sold
    to make money. A music CD is the end product. The potential volume of sales for
    a music CD is in the billions, for type, it is only in the thousands. A graphic
    designer who buys the font can pass the cost of the type on to his client. The
    purchaser of the music CD has no way to recoup their outlay of funds.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2010-01-01 18:55:30'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "Absolutely true of course. However I do wonder if it's still in balance.
    A typeface like Trinit\xE9 costs $4,846. There's something about it that I adore,
    but there are many things wrong with it as well. In use, the typeface looks unbalanced
    (which does give it a certain authentic letterpress quality though). There are
    some kerning problems, and it has no ligatures. I think that's a big issue, especially
    considering the high price. For such a price you would expect the typeface to
    be entirely complete. So pass the cost of the typeface on to your clients all
    you want; I still think the price is not always in balance in regard to the quality
    of the typeface. The concept of \"as long as there are still people buying it,
    there's nothing wrong with the price\" is very much present in the typeface industry,
    which is not necessarily a bad thing, but it does explain why there's so much
    illegal obtaining of typefaces. The \"absurdly\" high prices of some typefaces
    merely serve as a marketing tool to create a sense of elitism."
  created: '2010-01-01 21:22:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Trinit\xE9 perhaps costs $4,846 but this is an absurd amount compared to
    the typical font which costs between $20 and $50. If a graphic designer buys a
    font for $30 and uses it on only one job, he/she is still going to cover his costs
    even if it is a small job. If that same designer uses that same font again and
    again, he profits from it each time. I can still use fonts I purchased in 1986
    and they  cost much more back then!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2010-01-01 22:21:15'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "<em>A music CD is the end product.</em>\r\nNot strictly true, at least in
    the UK. Bars, coaches etc have to buy licenses to play music in the UK."
  created: '2010-01-01 23:08:27'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Hi Martin,\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t see your point. \r\nIn addition to what <a
    href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/28266#comment-158429\">Bert wrote in an earlier
    thread</a>:\r\nWhy should all typefaces cost the same? Different foundries aim
    at different markets. TEFF offers book typefaces and thus seem to focus on publishing
    houses. An approach that obviously has proved to be successful, as you can tell
    from the offerings of Dutch bookstores.\r\nThe ordinary freelance graphic designer
    just doesn\u2019t belong to their target audience. Yes, you could call that elitism.
    Or conscious positioning. It also offers some protection \u2013 against overuse.
    And, to some degree, piracy: Someone who paid a four-digit amount for a type family
    is less likely to hand it on to some friend.\r\n\r\nTrinit\xE9 is famous for its
    \u2018automatic ligatures\u2019. Learn about this clever design principle in <a
    href=\"http://books.google.com/books?id=sR9g5xPPJVQC&lpg=PP1&pg=PA161#v=onepage&q=&f=false\">Dutch
    Type (p 161)</a>.\r\n\r\nOn a different note: While discussion and disputation
    is very welcome on Typophile, please try to refrain from ad hominem attacks. Calling
    a fellow discussant \u2018a moron\u2019 etc. crosses the line, imho. Thank you.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-02 13:07:06'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "My point was essentially that I can better understand why piracy is involved
    in the typeface industry than in other industries, particularly the music industry.
    While listening music is a luxury, typefaces are practical, so there's actual
    need for it, even though the customer base is smaller than in the music industry.\r\n\r\nAs
    for TEFF, I must have been blind. Everything about TEFF breathes \"publishing
    houses\" as their target audience, yet I never really realized it. Thank you for
    the clarification on that. As for Trinit\xE9's automatic ligatures, I had no idea
    about that either. I've used Trinit\xE9 only once before, and that was for a sort
    of heading, which didn't require ligatures. However I noticed the absence of ligatures.
    Automatic ligatures is very clever. I didn't know about that principle, though
    as logical as it may be.\r\n\r\nUlrich comes to a typography community to try
    to obtain a certain typeface in an illegal way, and when he later finds the typeface
    for free elsewhere, he tells this community the source. Now I call that stupidity,
    and it annoys me very much. I think \"moron\" is an appropriate insult in this
    context, or would you be more comfortable with \"silly goose\"? I'm not here to
    insult or disrespect people, but he just crossed MY line."
  created: '2010-01-02 16:15:00'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Alright, thanks for your reply, Martin.\r\nI agree that typefaces are practical
    and there\u2019s an actual need for them. But there\u2019s no absolute need for
    Trinit\xE9 (for everybody), is there? ;-)\r\nYes, I don't endorse Ulrich\u2019s
    attitude either. Glad we have cleared this up.\r\nF"
  created: '2010-01-02 17:46:26'
- author:
    name: Ulrich22
    picture: 116133
  body: Ahh yeah whatever, point is i still got the font, and you guys are still here
    whining and bla bla. Ohh moron. Yeah whatever man. You take life too hard.
  created: '2010-02-23 22:42:16'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "This was by far the most interesting thing I've read today. Fantastic thoughts
    on typography, fonts, intellectual and physical property, font colors, and learning/unlearning/learning/unlearning
    lessons.\r\n\r\nGood stuff."
  created: '2010-02-23 23:35:29'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Morans_5537.png]'
  created: '2010-02-24 00:20:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: LOL!!!
  created: '2010-02-24 00:39:18'
- author:
    name: Ulrich22
    picture: 116133
  body: No im not broke, i just refused to pay for it cause its too expensive and
    im only a teenager.
  created: '2010-02-24 23:37:42'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\"Please can anybody give me this free, cuz im broke, i cant buy it for 243.\"\r\n\r\nGlad
    to hear your finances have turned around. Not many film school graduates make
    it to the fries station. Well done!"
  created: '2010-02-24 23:44:37'
- author:
    name: brockfrench
    picture: 113153
  body: Lars Ulrich is crying somewhere...
  created: '2010-02-26 03:24:23'
- author:
    name: Jennifer E. Dahl
    picture: 110983
  body: Wow...wow...wow...
  created: '2010-02-26 03:37:50'
- author:
    name: Chris G
    picture: 110812
  body: "YouTube have had enough:\r\n\r\n\"Ulrich228 has been terminated due to multiple
    or severe violations of our Community Guidelines and/or claims of copyright infringement.\""
  created: '2011-02-01 15:05:46'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: Good!
  created: '2011-02-24 17:26:04'
date: '2008-11-02 16:34:40'
title: New 90210 font - NeutraFace

---
