---
author:
  name: Henrik Birkvig
  picture: 111075
body: "Sponsored by Danish publishing company Aller (hence the name) and designed
  as part of the Danish School of Media and Journalisms new CI. \r\nI art directed
  and the good people of Dalton Maag, London (Bruno Maag, Marc Weyman and Ron Carpenter)
  designed and produced. Apart from being the corporate font for our new CI, the fonts
  are for free download at [[http://www.dmjx.dk/presserum/skrift.html]].\r\nHenrik
  Birkvig\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I\u2019m confused by the license. While the license is addressed to all downloaders,
    item 10 implies that Aller is licensed to DSMJ only for use by the school. I don\u2019t
    see anything in the license stating that the DSMJ can make the font available
    to the general public or that, as an entity other than DSMJ, I have any license
    to use the fonts."
  created: '2008-11-02 23:34:36'
- author:
    name: Henrik Birkvig
    picture: 111075
  body: "Sorry for the confusion. I talked to Bruno Maag and agreed just to let their
    EULA follow the fonts. But you can download and use them for any purpose you want
    to \u2013 but of course not rename them and re-release them.\r\nHenrik"
  created: '2008-11-03 09:19:56'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Well, the fonts are great. Free Bruno Maag type is going to become popular
    pretty quickly!
  created: '2008-11-03 14:48:45'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: 'Henrik if you agreed to let their EULA follow the fonts, then doesn''t that
    mean that the points of the agreement follow as well? I would ask them to update
    that EULA to show that anyone can use these fonts, but which I personally don''t
    understand why it would be in their interest to do so. '
  created: '2008-11-03 15:16:31'
- author:
    name: bruno_maag
  body: "OK, there seems to be some confusion regarding the EULA. This is a special
    arrangement. All IP rights are with Dalton Maag on this font family. The DSMJ
    has the right to distribute the fonts freely as part of their 'exclusivity' for
    the next two years. \r\n\r\nThe EULA also states that the fonts may be used on
    up to 25 workstations after which they become commercial. So, a corporate user
    will actually have to pay a license fee.\r\n\r\nThe EULA is there to ensure that
    users don't distribute the fonts themselves, as much as there are no modifications
    or reverse engineering. It is a protected font product like any other commercial
    font. \r\n\r\nSo, I can put your minds at rest. The DSMJ is fully within their
    rights to announce this free download. As a user you may use the fonts in your
    work as you wish, as long as you follow the EULA.\r\n\r\nBruno Maag\r\nDalton
    Maag Ltd"
  created: '2008-11-03 15:40:55'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: Henrik/Bruno, thanks! The type looks great.
  created: '2008-11-03 16:37:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Bruno, your strategy could backfire.\r\nIf foundries can't make money off
    sales to less than 25 workstations because the market is full of free fonts like
    Aller, they may adopt a similar tactic and compete in \"your\" niche. "
  created: '2008-11-03 18:41:40'
- author:
    name: nithrandur
  body: I like the alternates for the A in the display. This is really nice! Thank
    you.
  created: '2008-11-04 01:23:28'
- author:
    name: bruno_maag
  body: "I would like to say here, that it is not our usual policy to publish free
    fonts. In fact we don't give away any of our fonts.\r\n\r\nThe case of the Aller
    font family is different in that the client has paid for the development and negotiated
    the right to widespread distribution for the next two years. It's not that different
    to fonts being distributed with Windows. As we retain all the rights to the fonts
    we have full control over future developments and in two years time we have the
    opportunity to further exploit the fonts.\r\n\r\nBruno Maag\r\nDalton Maag\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-04 12:47:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>It\u2019s not that different to fonts being distributed with Windows.</em>\r\n\r\nIf
    a foundry makes free fonts available for one platform, that can lead to corporate
    sales for the other, and I've heard the theory that this accounts for a lot of
    the sales of the old sans faces such as Helvetica. Not sure how well that model
    would continue to work in the OpenType era.\r\n\r\nMy philosophy of font marketing
    (and digital ethics) changed considerably when I read Chris Anderson's essay on
    \"Free\" in Wired, although I haven't got around to incorporating my new attitude
    into any marketing plans yet. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-04 16:06:20'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: As a .gov-er by day, I always appreciate a quality free font. Thanks!
  created: '2008-11-04 16:36:20'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">The EULA also states that the fonts may be used on up to 25 workstations
    \r\n\r\nPerhaps the company could download the fonts twice or three times giving
    them 50 or 75 workstations? Or suggest that their users to downlaod the fonts
    directly? "
  created: '2008-11-04 17:13:44'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "The fonts are beautiful! \r\n\r\nBut of course nothing ever turns out right
    for me. Why would it? Anyway...\r\n\r\nI get this error. Also the light weight
    is not linked with regular and bold.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture4_4944.png]\r\n\r\nMikey
    :-)"
  created: '2008-11-05 06:46:24'
- author:
    name: bruno_maag
  body: "Ok, two answers:\r\nA download does not count as a license. The license talks
    of installation of 25 workstations. That means if you have the fonts installed
    on 75 workstations you are in defiance of the EULA, whether you downloaded the
    fonts once or a 100 times.\r\n\r\nThis is the typical Fontbook bug. It's been
    around for blimmin' ages and Apple (the lifestyle company) have done nothing to
    remedy it. This error occurs when TTF fonts are loaded with a missing 'fpgm' table.
    This table is necessary for hinted fonts but in unhinted fonts it has no effect
    whatsoever. You can safely ignore this warning. We ought to issue an update I
    guess.\r\n\r\nYou can only link for font styles together. The fonts are engineered
    so that the Bold can be accessed via the 'B' button in Office apps. That necessitates
    that the Light has to be separated into its own font family. The way the fonts
    are engineered at present give the most thorough formatting compatibility, accross
    platforms and documents possible.\r\n\r\nBruno Maag\r\nDalton Maag Ltd"
  created: '2008-11-05 10:50:11'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: Aller! Very nice, specially the Aller Display. Thank You!
  created: '2008-11-05 23:51:48'
- author:
    name: seml
    picture: 110996
  body: Interesting typeface. Thank you.
  created: '2008-11-06 13:30:58'
- author:
    name: seml
    picture: 110996
  body: Interesting typeface. Thank you.
  created: '2008-11-06 13:31:01'
- author:
    name: microspective
    picture: 111866
  body: "Thanks very much for this typeface.\r\n\r\nRegards"
  created: '2008-11-06 15:20:12'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Thank you for your response and explanation Bruno! \r\n\r\nI appreciate this
    face very much... I plan on giving it a proper workout very soon.\r\n\r\nMikey
    :-)\r\n\r\nPS... I\u2019m glad to see you have a US distributor too :-)"
  created: '2008-11-06 19:22:34'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "\r\nDalton Maag\r\n\r\nThank you Bruno Maag and Dalton Maag, its a gem!"
  created: '2008-11-06 22:05:17'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Next time I see you, Bruno. I'm going to ask you about this project.\r\n\r\nInteresting
    concept for the EULA. The typeface isn't half bad either. ;^)"
  created: '2008-11-06 22:39:17'
- author:
    name: "Anti-Social\u2122"
    picture: 116169
  body: Very Nice. Especially the display face. Thank you
  created: '2008-11-07 05:41:10'
- author:
    name: Vivio Russ
  body: "AWESOME!!! this font rocks, especially the Display!\r\n\r\nare we authorized
    to use it in graphic creations like a logo for example?\r\nI mean, if I sale a
    logo using this font, have i to pay something?"
  created: '2008-11-10 21:45:52'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Read the EULA all the information is there.
  created: '2008-11-10 22:55:50'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Handpicked
  created: '2008-11-10 23:23:04'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I wish it weren't truetype, I don't know what to do with those. Maybe they
    work on the web? Not for print tho.
  created: '2008-11-10 23:45:42'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Patty they are True type flavored OpenType fonts. They work fine here, why
    do you say that?
  created: '2008-11-10 23:51:47'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Why not for print, Patty?
  created: '2008-11-10 23:52:39'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "hey, is there a regualer italic? i can't seen to see it...\r\n\r\noh well,
    thanks anyway, they are nice!"
  created: '2008-11-11 02:19:16'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: ok, i found it... sorry....
  created: '2008-11-11 02:20:31'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Oh I see, they are open type. When I saw the suffix .ttf I assumed TrueType.
  created: '2008-11-11 02:50:02'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: TrueType will still work on a majority of modern RIPs and printers. The days
    of PostScript-only presses are behind us.
  created: '2008-11-11 04:50:37'
- author:
    name: Mitternacht
    picture: 116028
  body: "Thank you, this is a very pleasant typeface. I especially like the regular
    lowercase \u201Ca\u201D and uppercase \u201CG\u201D."
  created: '2008-11-11 06:13:09'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "<cite>My philosophy of font marketing (and digital ethics) changed considerably
    when I read Chris Anderson\u2019s essay on \u201CFree\u201D in Wired, although
    I haven\u2019t got around to incorporating my new attitude into any marketing
    plans yet. </cite>\r\n\r\nNick, could you share your thoughts?\r\nI have not found
    yet a convincing \"philosophy of font marketing\" and I was just talking with
    Chester of these things\u2026 Thanks!\r\n\r\nP.S. What do you think, in general,
    of the idea of \"bundling\" typefaces with software applications, as the perception
    of the public it may be considerably reinforced (in ignorance) to perceive all
    works as \"not to be paid\"?"
  created: '2008-11-11 15:11:01'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "<em>Maybe they work on the web? Not for print tho.</em>\r\n\r\nRather for
    print than for screen, because there is no hinting."
  created: '2008-11-11 15:50:12'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "I would like to ask how Unicode values for Small Capitals are assigned, since
    they are a \"stylistic variation\" and not included in Unicode. I see they are
    also different from the ones usually adopted by Adobe (forgive my question, but
    I am striving to build a sort of standard for myself\u2026)"
  created: '2008-11-11 16:30:44'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "The Unicode code points are in the Private Area.\r\n\r\nIt is possible to
    include characters without a unicode code point, but this way the characters can
    be used with software that allows you to use any UC character (as opposed to programs
    that allows to select <em>any</em> character, such as InDesign).\r\nIt's not really
    necessary for the small caps function.\r\n\r\nIt is a very nice design, looks
    like Myriad but a bit less \"cramped\". Is it inspired by certain Dutch designs?
    (grin)\r\n\r\nBut Windows (on screen) doesn't really like it ... Is it still possible
    to add basic hinting?"
  created: '2008-11-15 22:34:34'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: ".. InDesign doesn't like the family naming scheme!\r\n\r\nIt shows one group
    \"Aller\", containing Regular, Italic, Bold & Bold Italic, one group \"Aller Light\"
    with Light & Light Italic, and one group \"Aller Display\", with a single \"Regular\"
    font.\r\n\r\nInDesign can handle <em>some</em> variations, but it seems their
    system is defeated here."
  created: '2008-11-17 13:58:41'
- author:
    name: bruno_maag
  body: "Thank you all for your comments. I am pretty chuffed with the design myself.\r\n\r\nYes,
    hinting: the font has been autohinted but that, of course, won't do the trick
    if good display is required. If we get some spare time and don't know what to
    do with our hands, we'll do some hard core VTT hinting on it.\r\n\r\nTheunis,
    the font naming convention is intentional. This allows us the same naming for
    all applications, be they graphic or office. It also means that if a doc is created
    in one app, the doc can be opened, imported or whatever, in another wihtout losing
    the font name formatting. And since we're sticking with the 4-style font family
    it works fine in older versions of Win and Unix, too.\r\n\r\nI realise that this
    may be a bit tedious for graphics users where you'd expect to see all styles in
    one font family. But it is a small price to pay for all round compatibility.\r\n\r\nIt
    is our policy to give all glyphs a Unicode value. I realise that a number of these
    are then put on private area. Not everyone may agree with this policy but I believe
    it is important to give access to these glyphs also to people who have no OT feature
    access, such as Word. And since it's Unicode, the glyphs can also be accessed
    using database driven copy, as long as the Unicodes are stringed correctly.\r\n\r\nAnd
    then the question re TTF: it is our policy to produce TTF based OpenType fonts
    since we are confident that they work pretty reliably in a wide variety of environments.
    We create CFF based OT fonts only on demand.\r\n\r\nBruno Maag\r\nDalton Maag"
  created: '2008-11-17 16:17:27'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Those are some good points you make. Every now & then I wake up to realize
    not everyone is using InDesign. (That day will come!)\r\n\r\nMy question re: low
    rez hinting is based upon my preference for high quality fonts for reading on
    screen, such as in Notepad (and as Windows default font for its windows as well).
    Oh well, I'll stick to (checking) hey, today it's Eurostile :-)\r\n\r\nIt sure
    looks to me as a very good book font -- I'm going to propose this to our clients.
    That's doctoral theses from our friendly local medicine university (Erasmus, Rotterdam)
    in small print runs (about 300), so don't expect to see one pop up in book stores
    near you soon.  I'm pretty sure the EULA allows this (...)\r\nBruno, if you'd
    like to see one (if I can push it thru), I could send you a PDF."
  created: '2008-11-17 21:18:51'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "<cite> The Unicode code points are in the Private Area. </cite>\r\nThanks.
    But, assumed I assign to Small Caps (or other stylistic variations) a Unicode
    value from the Private Range area, has a sort of \"standard\" been developed or
    not?\r\nI was oriented to stick with Adobe values, and see those also for the
    Greek Small caps.\r\n\r\nMaybe I should have posted in a separate topic, but I
    am interested to hear what Bruno Maag says on this, if it happens he passes again\u2026\r\n\r\nThank
    you!"
  created: '2008-11-18 14:32:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Claudio, the idea is to make a version of a product free to get it established,
    and then people will buy the non-free versions.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-19 01:42:52'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Adobe's document <em>Unicode and Glyph Names</em>, <a href=\"http://www.adobe.com/devnet/opentype/archives/glyph.html#4\"
    target=\"_blank\">section 4</a>, should answer the question. Also see, same document,
    the entire <a href=\"http://www.adobe.com/devnet/opentype/archives/glyph.html#6\"
    target=\"_blank\">section 6</a>, especially this part (quote):\r\n<cite>The exceptions
    are the AGLv1.2 names which are associated with Unicode Private Use Area (PUA)
    values. These include all the superiors and small cap names. Use of these names
    will, for the purpose of searching text, lead some current implementations to
    map names like \"Asmall\" to the PUA Unicode value from AGL v1.2, rather than
    to the Unicode value for \"A\". We now recommend naming these glyphs according
    to the rules below.</cite>\r\nBetter only study Adobe's latest fonts like Arno
    Pro.\r\n\r\n[Edit: Not meant as a comment about Aller Sans, only addressing Claudio's
    question. Point is, whether you use Adobe's earlier PUA codepoints or not, you
    should have a good reason for your decision.]"
  created: '2008-11-19 10:51:22'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "@Nick: Incredible how I realized this could be good, by experiencing it.
    It has already happened to me as a customer. And I think the \"freebie\" maybe
    does not even have to be a full-coverage weight. it's to test the quality\u2026
    Great! Hope we'll talk about this\u2026\r\n\r\n@Karsten: How would I do without
    you? Thanks, I'll read them\u2026"
  created: '2008-11-20 16:12:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Claudio, AFAIK, \"free\" is one reason Helvetica etc. are top of the sales
    charts.\r\nPartly an historical thing: free on Mac, then had to be licensed for
    PC?"
  created: '2008-11-20 18:30:34'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "I can't get the PC reference (I always used Macs), but thanks\u2026 :=)"
  created: '2008-11-22 19:05:17'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: i've often wondered why helvetica is still top of sales charts... thanks nick!
  created: '2008-11-24 03:37:28'
- author:
    name: bruno_maag
  body: "Theunis, hinting is always a nice thing to have. Unfortunately, the commercial
    reality is that is barely affordable to do for a foundry. It takes about six working
    days for a plain Latin font to be hinted to a good quality. If you add the S/C
    you'll increase that easily to eight days. No one is ever going to pay the premium
    for this in a retail product. The difference between a hinted v. unhinted font
    would be around \xA315 per font.\r\n\r\nYes, please do send me a PDF of the work.
    I would like to see it.\r\n\r\nRe AGL1.2 and PUA - it appears that we haven't
    updated our encoding vectors. I am all for standards. We'll create future fonts
    to follow the AGL standard. But as explained above we had good reason for applying
    PUAs to the S/c.\r\n\r\nBruno"
  created: '2008-11-25 11:05:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Actually, there is simple hinting that can be easily done to a font, in particular
    assigning values to standard stem widths and alignment zones, that sharpens things
    up considerably.
  created: '2008-11-26 16:53:55'
- author:
    name: Vivio Russ
  body: "Miss Tiffany said: \"Read the EULA all the information is there\"\r\n\r\nlol...\r\nMy
    english isn't enough good as I would like so this EULA is really MARTIAN for me
    :/\r\nI just want a simple and clear answer:\r\nAre we authorized to use this
    font in a logo?\r\nYES or NO? nothing more...\r\nthanks in advance..."
  created: '2008-11-26 17:22:06'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "If English is not your mother tongue you may be able to handle a general
    dialogue, with common words.\r\nWhenever I use English I still feel handicapped,
    I can't express properly.\r\nShould I express my thought with decent precision
    I'd have to formulate it in my language first, although the thought structure
    of any language is different.\r\n\r\n@Bruno: what you say about production matters
    and hinting is very interesting.\r\nHow much time do you think it would take to
    develop a systematic production method (excluding hinting), and how much did you
    learn in time from the work of colleagues / other foundries?\r\nIs that so different
    for a small foundry and a bigger one? I guess it all depends on how much you relate
    to \"standards\" or stray from them, anyway.\r\nThat's probably why I find so
    difficult to build one for myself\u2026 :=("
  created: '2008-11-28 15:16:17'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>Oh I see, they are open type. When I saw the suffix .ttf I assumed
    TrueType.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe suffix is the same, because it really doesn't matter.
    TrueType and OpenType (with TT outlines) is basically is the same thing. The myth
    that TrueTypes are bad needs to be buried. \r\nIn fact, as far as I understand
    many of Bruno\u2019s postings, they even prefer TrueType/OT TT over CFF-flavoured
    OpenType because they considered it even a little bit more stable and compatible. "
  created: '2008-12-01 20:44:09'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Ralf, I just prefer OT-flavored since when I have to edit or modify outlines
    to create logos or to add weight, I have fewer control points, and it's a lot
    better for editing.\r\n\r\nIn general I follow the criteria to buy licenses for
    TTF if I have to use faces also for screen work, otherwise I buy OTF."
  created: '2008-12-02 21:19:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>The myth that TrueTypes are bad needs to be buried.</em>\r\n\r\nIt's
    not a myth. In many cases TrueType fonts are not as good as Type1 for display
    work.\r\n\r\nWhen a font is created with PostScript curves, some distortion occurs
    when it's converted to TrueType curves, which happens automatically during the
    font generation process. If my practice is typical, type designers will generally
    draw their glyphs in PostScript mode, and not redraw glyphs to correct the distortions
    for TrueType generation. So there will be slight artifacts in the TrueType versions,
    that may occasionally mar the appearance of type at large display size."
  created: '2008-12-02 23:21:05'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>It\u2019s not a myth. In many cases TrueType fonts are not as good
    as Type1 for display work.</em>\r\n\r\nIf they aren't as good it's the designer's
    fault, not a font format problem or limitation."
  created: '2008-12-03 01:29:22'
- author:
    name: Vivio Russ
  body: "8 days without any answer...\r\nI must have to consider this silence as an
    authorization...\r\nSo I'll use this font in my future logo creations...\r\nThanks
    anyway.\r\nRegards."
  created: '2008-12-03 09:54:16'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: YES!!!!!! Sorry about that Vivio :-)
  created: '2008-12-03 18:01:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>If they aren\u2019t as good it\u2019s the designer\u2019s fault, not
    a font format problem or limitation.</em>\r\n\r\nOne could also blame history
    (the circumstance that saw the design industry using Type1 fonts and everyone
    else TrueType), or software such as FontLab, which creates the artefacts during
    conversion from PostScript curves to TrueType.\r\n\r\nBut I'm not trying to place
    blame, only trying to tell it like it is.\r\n\r\nAnd it's not really a fault to
    publish a font that's almost perfect -- after all, as Bruno notes, very few fonts
    have full, character-by-character hinting.\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-03 20:23:32'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "It probably depends on how delicate the curves (or thin the stems) are\u2026\r\nAlthough
    the automatic addition of points does not seem to bring so much distortion in
    the majority of curves. It would probably be crucial when you have short segments
    inclined, where the addition of a TT control point would move or alter the curve\u2026"
  created: '2008-12-04 15:31:27'
- author:
    name: jabez
    picture: 112785
  body: "I just joined the ranks of appreciative typophiles with Aller Sans. Thanks.\r\n\r\n<em>\"If
    you hit a wrong note, it\u2019s the next note that you play that makes it good
    or bad\" - Miles Davis</em>"
  created: '2008-12-25 03:56:16'
- author:
    name: dinazina
    picture: 113020
  body: "I used Aller Light & Regular with my new business header, see below. Thanks!\r\n\r\nI
    wanted a text font very clean and smooth, but also with a slight warmth to it.
    Museo was close, but too rounded compared to the logo. Aller looks just right,
    I think.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/d-g-header_3515.gif]"
  created: '2009-02-04 19:09:49'
- author:
    name: karo LINE
    picture: 116824
  body: thanks a lot.
  created: '2009-03-02 18:26:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> So there will be slight artifacts in the TrueType versions\r\n\r\nNot if
    you know to avoid certain structures in the original cubics.\r\nOne such trick
    is mentioned in the Curves section here:\r\nhttp://themicrofoundry.com/s_quality.html\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-13 02:31:26'
- author:
    name: FrankSmith
    picture: 113578
  body: "Just wanted to say Thank You for a very very good font.  As a signmaker,
    I'm usually excited by more gimicky fonts, but am actually excited by Aller.  Esthetically,
    I find it very easy to use attractively.  I don't know to what extent signage
    and long-distance legibility was considered or needed by the DSMJ, but I'm finding
    Aller very effective in that regard.\r\n\r\nWhat happens in 2 years?  I want to
    use the font legitimately."
  created: '2009-03-15 13:42:35'
- author:
    name: csr
    picture: 109870
  body: Thanks so much!
  created: '2009-04-22 16:56:52'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Aller Sans in use!!!\r\n\r\n\r\nhttp://search.mylife.com/a/whos-searching-for-you?aid=Surge%20Marketing%20Inc&asid=87220"
  created: '2009-07-21 05:12:12'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Aller Sans in use again:\r\nhttp://www.unieq.nl/"
  created: '2009-08-02 22:42:58'
- author:
    name: davidmarshall
    picture: 117748
  body: "> What happens in 2 years? I want to use the font legitimately.\r\n\r\nLicences
    awarded now are perpetual. The only limit is that the number of users is never
    above 25 in those organizations which have acquired free licences.\r\n\r\nWhen
    distribution rights revert to us it will become a member of our retail library,
    but the free licences will still stand. Those organizations needing more than
    25 users will at that point be able to buy more.\r\n\r\nDave"
  created: '2009-08-03 21:56:31'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Aller Sans looks amazing here:\r\nhttp://www.formspring.com/\r\n\r\nVery
    web 2.0"
  created: '2009-08-23 00:56:00'
- author:
    name: Kerri
  body: "Hi there.  I have more confusion regarding the license for this free font.
    \ I'm working on a web project, and I was under the impression, based on the attached
    license, that embedding it in a website (via @font-face) was allowable.  Though
    it isn't exclusively mentioned, it does say this:\r\n<cite>Font Software may be
    used to create or distribute any electronic document in which the Font Software,
    or any part thereof, is embedded in a format that permits editing, alterations,
    enhancements, or modifications by the recipient of such document.</cite>\r\n\r\nHowever,
    I was having second thoughts and did a google seach for \"embed \"aller font\"\"
    and got this hit:\r\nWeb Embedding Aller FAQ - Dalton Maag (http://www.daltonmaag.com/about/aller_faq.html)\r\nwhich
    explicitly disallows this use.  However, it seems to be in the context of a paid
    font, and nowhere else on the site can I even *find* Aller, so I don't know if
    it applies to the free version of the font or not.\r\n\r\nCan you let me know
    where embedding via @font-face is allowed for this free version?  Thanks!\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-05 04:45:08'
- author:
    name: aric
    picture: 113195
  body: Kerri, it seems pretty clear to me that the page you cite does apply to the
    free version.  If so, embedding of Aller Sans is only allowed in EOT format (so,
    you can use it with @font-face with Internet Explorer only).  However, Dalton
    Maag permits you to use a solution such as [[http://facelift.mawhorter.net/|FLIR]]
    as long as you aren't concurrently serving up more than 25 pages that use the
    font.  As they point out in the [[http://www.daltonmaag.com/about/web_embedding_faq.html|general
    FAQ]], web pages get served up pretty darn fast, so that limit is probably not
    a big deal for most websites, assuming you're only using it for headings and not
    as a text face.
  created: '2010-01-05 07:53:50'
- author:
    name: ironxcross
  body: I'm still a little confused with this EULA, so I thought it best to just ask
    here.. I am developing an iPhone game that I'm going to sell through the iTunes
    store. I would like to use this font in parts of the interface.. I'm obviously
    not selling the font, but the font has to be included in the binary.. is that
    possible through this EULA? Thanks.
  created: '2010-01-08 01:38:27'
- author:
    name: aric
    picture: 113195
  body: "I'm no lawyer and I'm not affiliated with Dalton Maag, but the way I read
    the EULA that wouldn't be allowed.  The first sentence of paragraph 14 states
    pretty clearly:\r\n\r\n<cite>14 You may not rent, lease, sublicense, give, lend,
    or further distribute the Font Software, or any copy thereof, except as expressly
    provided herein.</cite>\r\n\r\nThere are plenty of fonts out there with licenses
    that would work for you.  You might consider the Bitstream Vera fonts."
  created: '2010-01-08 04:24:08'
- author:
    name: filip blazek
    picture: 110363
  body: 'Thanks for Aller, it is a nice typeface. Unfortunately, there is a bug which
    makes this font almost unusable for setting Czech or Slovak languages: non breaking
    space glyph "uni00A0" has zero width. Unfortunately InDesign CS4 (unlike the older
    versions) uses this glyph as a "proportional non breaking space". This space is
    used in Czech, Slovak and probably other languages as well to keep single-letter
    words together with the next word. Slavic languages do use many single-letter
    words, in Czech we have a, i, o, u, v, s, z, k. It is considered a mistake to
    keep single-letter word at the end of a line, so there is a plugin (distributed
    to all InDesign owners for free by the official distributor) which automatically
    replaces spaces by non breaking spaces after those single-letter words. When using
    Aller, the result is pretty bad: the space is replaced by a zero width characters
    so in fact the text is no more readable... Please consider copying the space width
    to uni00A0. Thanks!'
  created: '2010-04-28 13:43:25'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Filip,\r\nwhile this bug is not corrected, you can do a workaround. Create
    a GREP style changing this glyph to the same from another font. Although not ideal,
    it will let you use Aller Sans."
  created: '2010-04-28 23:25:15'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "I would contact Dalton Maag and let them know about the bug. Maag and company
    are perfectionist so I\u2019m sure they would be interested in developing a fix
    for you (and the typographic community at-large):\r\n\r\nhttp://www.daltonmaag.com/contact.html\r\n\r\nMike
    Diaz :-)"
  created: '2010-05-17 00:10:53'
- author:
    name: Aniossar
  body: "Hello,\r\nCan I use Aller Sans in making a logotype of a company?"
  created: '2010-07-02 19:57:31'
- author:
    name: Cilyan
  body: "Hello,\r\nThat's a very nice work, but according to the EULA, \"You are not
    permitted to produce a Derivative Work of this Font Software\". Moreover, a font
    description can harldy be considered as Font Software and it is hard \"to give
    commands (whether by keyboard or otherwise) that are followed by the Font Software\"
    considering that the \"Font Software\" are inerte files. So there are two possibilities,
    \r\n- either the license is invalid a one can potentially do whatever one wants
    with your font,\r\n- or the license is valid and then it simply prohibits to use
    it.\r\n\r\nMaybe you should have a look at http://creativecommons.org/choose/
    if you want to distribute freely your work but keep your rights safe.\r\nSo nice
    work, but I won't use it as I am not sure that I have the right to :("
  created: '2010-08-17 21:37:34'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "The term \"Derivative Work\" is even explained in the EULA. So no doubt about
    that. \r\n\r\nI am pretty sure, Dalton Maag is familiar with CC licenses, but
    this was a design for a client and they are free to set up their license accordingly. "
  created: '2010-08-18 07:59:09'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Were you guys speaking of Aniossar\u2019s post regarding logotypes?\r\n\r\n\"Derivative
    Work\" does not apply to logotypes.\r\n\r\n\"Derivative Work\" applies to altered,
    edited, appended, or otherwise customized works based on the original font files.\r\n\r\nMike
    Diaz :-)\r\n\r\nPS... not that I have ever read EULA agreement in my entire life.
    :-)"
  created: '2010-08-24 07:30:26'
- author:
    name: nodatalog
  body: "Can somebody help me with the Aller font usage (I have little experience
    with font styles usage).\r\n\r\nMy understanding of the font styles is as follow
    (when creating styles in a word processor or presentation software - not a designer
    here)\r\n\r\nRegular -> usage paragraph styles\r\nLight -> usage (that's a good
    question - maybe short paragraph, e.g. intro)?\r\n\r\nthe Aller regular is very
    thick (bold) on screen and on print. I am wondering if regular is suitable to
    be used as paragraph style, or if I had to use the Light version instead?\r\n\r\nIt
    is about reports, A4 paper, font size text 12 pt, leading 0.08 mm (software: OOo
    Writer).\r\n\r\nThanks"
  created: '2010-09-01 00:28:22'
- author:
    name: yoodle
  body: "> problemas en el link de la descarga\r\n> problems with the download link\r\n\r\nPorfavor
    avisenme en la soluci\xF3n del problema\r\nPlease let me know in the solution
    of the problem\r\n\r\nThanks\r\nGracias"
  created: '2010-09-28 22:35:25'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: 'Aller - still free: http://www.daltonmaag.com/about/aller.html'
  created: '2010-09-29 06:12:27'
date: '2008-11-02 22:36:47'
title: 'Aller Sans: High quality fonts for free download'

---
