---
author:
  name: cuttlefish
  picture: 111881
body: "An uppercase display experiment I cobbled together in a day and a half. It's
  really rough, but might have potential.\r\n\r\nThe darn \"insert image\" link isn't
  working for me, but the PDF is uploaded. I'll amend this post if I can from another
  browser.\r\n\r\nEDIT: \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/EffluentOne-sample_5148.png]"
comments:
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/effluenttwo-sample_4739.png]\r\nHere's
    a little update. I did up the lowercase except for k, and the g still needs a
    lot of work. On screen the lowercase letters look HUGE next to their UC counterparts,
    but it all looks fine on paper. Something feels wrong, helll I can see it's wrong,
    but I am not sure why.\r\nNew PDF up top."
  created: '2008-11-10 23:25:31'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Nobody seems interested in talking about new regular type anymore, always
    going to the Logo/ID section.\r\n\r\nThat's OK I can critique myself.\r\n\r\nThe
    lc a has the most character of these characters, but the lower curve needs to
    be smoothed out a bit.\r\n That f is a joke, right? Just an upturned j with a
    cross bar. I do like those inset curled ball terminals on the f, t, and j, though.
    Hard to say if that feature fits in with an otherwise wide font though. Try stretching
    them out, like the tail on the Q.\r\n\r\nKeep working on that g. The line weights
    seem about right but it's still too dark."
  created: '2008-11-11 01:10:02'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Don't worry I'll be in to give a more in depth critique....just been busy
    with some non-type stuff.\r\n\r\nThe firs thing I'd do though is the uc H.  While
    the U traditionally has two different stresses on the vertical strokes, the H
    does not, both are thick.\r\n\r\nI like the inset balls.  But push the ball of
    the r in some.  you can have skinny rs and be okay.  \r\n\r\nAlso, a problem I
    noticed I had in Coru\xF1a the other day you have too.... the Ss look like they
    were made with entirely different angles and curves.  both fit the font, but they
    don't fit each other I don't think, if that makes sense.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro
    es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB.
    (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-11-11 03:26:58'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Oh, I know about the H. I tried it with equal stems and it just looked way
    too heavy, but I'll try that again.
  created: '2008-11-11 03:34:50'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: BTW, I REALLY want to change the name on this one. "Effluent" is neither marketable
    nor appropriate.
  created: '2008-11-11 04:24:37'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "While I don't tend to like typefaces with too high a contrast, this one has
    potential. The one thing that sticks in my eye is the spurs on the K and the R.
    Also, the offset in the crossbar of X and x make them a tad too alephy for me.
    \r\n\r\nCan you provide some text in your sample? I realize you may not have done
    spacing yet, but it's still helpful for judging letter forms."
  created: '2008-11-11 17:55:58'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I've made some improvements and d most of the letters look a lot better,
    but when I did a test text print at 12pt it looked absolutely terrible! There
    is a problem of uneven color to say the very least (not that even color is a supreme
    goal in and of its self, but well, you'll see soon enough.) The thin parts of
    the high-contrast strokes frequently disappeared at that size. Clearly this isn't
    meant to be used so small, but it's too wide for titling. Maybe its destiny is
    in signage?\r\n\r\nThe x-height is huge, so much that the lowercase overpowers
    the caps. 'm not sure how this can be repaired.Making the cap stems heavier might
    help.\r\n\r\nI want to give it another pass before I show a new sample, but it
    shouldn't be too long now."
  created: '2008-11-20 09:08:26'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: this looks really nice, keep it up!
  created: '2008-11-24 13:54:48'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I made the curved shapes of the lc letters lighter, straight stems of the
    caps heavier, a bunch of other tweaks and some new characters and here is what
    I've come up with:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/effluentthree-sample_6232.png]\r\n\r\nI
    also made a sample with dummy text set at 12pt. I haven't done anything with the
    spacing other than set arbitrary sidebearings, so that will need a lot of work
    but it should give you some idea of how it's coming along. It's in the new PDF
    in the attachment list."
  created: '2008-11-25 21:31:33'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Well, those numbers still need some work, and those cut-in terminals on the
    f, t, and j, though nice on their own, look like they belong in  a different font.
    But what would be the solution? Do I pull them out like I did on the r? Do I replace
    them with straight tapers like off the bottom of e? Or would a really long hook
    with a ball like on the cap J work?
  created: '2008-11-27 03:19:58'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Uppercase alone is wonderful, but there's something about the size and width
    of the lowercase that bothers me. I think it's too wide, the x-height too high,
    and also i think the letters are unexpectedly round. I love the lowercase \"t\"
    and \"j\". I'm no expert, so my critique goes at the whole concept, and it is
    very dependent on which direction choose.\r\n\r\nUC: The top left serif of \"N\"
    is wierd. \"W\" bothers me, and the left stroke on \"\xC6\" falling from the E-shape
    serif as well. The lower part of B ends straight on the right side of the stem,
    but \"E\" is rounded. Is that done on purpose?\r\n\r\nForgive my bad terminology."
  created: '2008-12-05 17:22:08'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: '"K" is unbalanced in my eyes. There''s a wierd spot where the two bowls meet
    in your "B". The top right serif in "Y" (on the left side) needs to stick out
    a bit more. The thin strokes on "X" doesn''t visually hit each other. I would
    keep the first "S" as an alternate, but the lower ball terminal is different from
    the upper. I think the upper is best.'
  created: '2008-12-05 17:31:43'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "<cite>The lower part of B ends straight on the right side of the stem, but
    \u201CE\u201D is rounded. Is that done on purpose?</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, I found
    that the B looked way too heavy with all the internal corners rounded. Squaring
    that one kept it balanced to my eyes. \r\n\r\nI don't know what to do with the
    Ws . I may have to beat them with a mallet. I agree with you on the faults of
    the lowercase. the x-height and overshoots are what you'd expect for a text face,
    but with the extreme contrast that would be impossible in this case. I'll try
    tightening them up a bit."
  created: '2008-12-09 08:56:37'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "For the W maybe just take out the middle serif.  Much as I'm a fan of the
    3 and 4 pointy Ws, here just the two with a half-center will work best.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-12-09 12:52:41'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Any of you folks have a suggestion for a name? "Effluent" means sewage, and
    that hardly seems appropriate for this.
  created: '2008-12-09 17:35:59'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "All right, I think I've tackled most of the problems with the lower case.
    \"k\"s are still giving me trouble. Anyway, a new sample will be up soon.\r\n\r\nThe
    name \"Elefont\" is already taken, isn't it? That's not quite what I hope to call
    it anyway, but there it is out there.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-12 03:54:34'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Elefant? :) I'd love to see the next sample!
  created: '2008-12-12 13:17:44'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Un <b>elefante</b> se balanceaba // An elephant was balancing\r\nsobre la
    tela de una ara\xF1a. // on a spider's web\r\nComo ve\xEDa que no se ca\xEDa,
    // Since he saw he wasn't falling\r\nfu\xE9 a avisar a otro elefante // he went
    to tell another elephant\r\n\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina
    que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por
    Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-12-12 16:42:43'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: I just redid all the numbers, and should be ready to post a sample shortly.
    Still haven't come up with a better name, though.
  created: '2009-01-18 23:03:32'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/EffluentFourscreenshot_3780.png]\r\n\r\nOK,
    here you go,, version Four, with all that stuff I've been talking about.\r\n\r\nThe
    ball-ended Ss are in the font, but not shown on the sample. New PDF is up top
    too."
  created: '2009-01-19 00:07:02'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "I'm coming back to this with fresh eyes. This is what's bothering me: \r\nI
    think \"a\", \"e\" and \"o\" are too wide. \r\nThe thin part of the curve in \"h\"
    and \"n\" looks wierd. \"m\" is better.\r\nThe right stem on \"H\" is very distracting.\r\n\"S\"
    and \"s\" are both a bit wide in my eyes.\r\nThe mid section of \"W\" and \"w\"
    doesn't really work.\r\nThe right leg on \"k\" should stretch further out to the
    right.\r\nThe thin stroke on lc \"x\" still doesn't visually align.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not sure about those numerals. I think 5, 3 and 7 look great, but the others need
    some more work."
  created: '2009-01-19 21:48:15'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "The thin stroke of the \"x\" rarely aligns in didones, especially at heavier
    weights. Not much I can do about that.\r\n\r\nI'm surprised nobody has mentioned
    the hooked serifs on the \"p\" and \"r\".\r\n\r\nWell, anyway, the next iteration
    has even more changes, including further work on the numbers. They will play along
    with each other even if I have to beat them with a mallet!"
  created: '2009-01-23 01:47:57'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I've come to the conclusion that the ultratight inset ball terminals on the
    f, t, j, and long s really don't play nicely with the other letters so I'll be
    trying something different here and save those things for something else.\r\n\r\nThis
    could also mean changes for the g, r, y, \xDF, and Q, but I'm not sure yet"
  created: '2009-01-28 22:03:30'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "So, in replacing the inset ball terminals, should I go thin, as on the c,
    or spurred, as on the S? Or should there be balls on longer stems, as on the r,
    y, 6, or 9?\r\n\r\nAlso, the lc \"l\" looks really excessive when doubled. What
    can be done about that?"
  created: '2009-01-29 20:58:55'
- author:
    name: Yehan
    picture: 112677
  body: "I really really like this face. I think you should keep some of the quirky-ness
    you took out in some of the previous versions and make alt glyphs. I really thought
    the W the last time round was quite cute. The whole font(the first pic) had this
    quirk about it I really enjoyed.\r\n\r\nTHAT said, I'm totally for you making
    the letters more standard so we all don't get irritated when you finally make
    the font available.\r\n\r\nThe f and j bother me in that they come back onto themselves.
    And the ear on the g is really really tight. Might get lost...give it some space
    - ala the r? \r\n\r\nOther than that I think it's coming along really nicely..very
    very nice!"
  created: '2009-01-30 09:18:30'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "4 0 and 1 are the numbers that most bother me.  The 4 and 1 are just too
    angular.  The 0 suffers some of the same problems of the H: normally they have
    stress on both sides and here they only have it on one side.\r\n\r\nThe inset
    terminals work, but you might want slightly thinner strokes as your approach,
    thus the inset appearance isn't as strong, but will still be recognized, and should
    flow a bit better.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas
    nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2009-02-03 01:17:20'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: The zero still needs to be distinct from the O, and since these are lining
    numerals I'm going with the half-contrast style zero. There is certainly precedent
    for it. As for the 4 and 1, it's hard to make figures customarily composed of
    straight lines that aren't angular, but I'll see what I can do.
  created: '2009-02-03 03:12:02'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "The four and one both have lots of precedences with curls.\r\n\r\nThe top
    of the four remember doen't need to connected, and you can take the left edge
    to curve and end with a nice ball point.  The part of the 1 that sticks out can
    also be made to curve downwards, if you've ever seen a European write a 1 you'll
    know what I'm talking about.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina
    que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por
    Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2009-02-03 21:16:58'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Time for yet another update!\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/EffluentFive-sampleA_5884.png]\r\n\r\nYou
    will notice a lot of changes this time, some small, others far less subtle than
    previous go-arounds. \r\n\r\nNearly all the lowercase are slightly narrower, the
    H is symmetrical, the inset ball terminals have been replaced with hairline hooks,
    the J has a spurred hook, the leg spurs on K and R have been replaced with convex
    curves, ear of g and tail of y are relaxed a bit, new tail on the Q, modification
    to the \xDF, leg of k adjusted, several of the numbers have been redone (the 6
    and 8 still bother me, though they are improved) and a bunch of smaller changes
    throughout.\r\n\r\nnew PDF of the sample up top"
  created: '2009-02-14 22:27:09'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: Oh, that final version of the K is much, much nicer.
  created: '2009-02-14 23:47:13'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "symbols and junk:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/EffluentFive-symbols_6589.png]\r\n\r\nPDF
    of this page up at the first post"
  created: '2009-02-15 21:02:46'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: I think I've resolved the closed-S "8" and open "4" but I'm thinking I may
    want to go with the stacked-ovals "8" instead, as appears more common in Didones.
    The more I study my design and its relation to other typefaces, I'm discovering
    a lot of grotesque influence here, which is kind of weird, I guess.
  created: '2009-03-08 22:15:21'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Now thay I get it together, the changes are more subtle than I expected.
    Some of the spacing issues are addressed. The most obvious changes are the 8 and
    narrower a and g, but there really is a lot of stuff going on in there; yet another
    alternate 4, for example.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/EffluentSix-sample_5535.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/EffluentSix-symbols_4611.png]\r\n\r\nEffluentSix
    PDFs are up top."
  created: '2009-03-12 03:47:56'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "I think this has improved a lot since the start. \r\nThe various different
    terminals (hooks, balls and thin lines) seems like a mistake.\r\nSame goes for
    serifs and rounded white corners.\r\nBoth S's are falling over.\r\nI personally
    don't like Ww and a\xE6. \r\nLove the alternates!"
  created: '2009-03-12 13:01:03'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I get what you're saying about the S's and I think I've fixed that, changing
    the angle of the spine to match the new 8, though that does result in making them
    narrower.\r\n\r\nI'm not quite sure what you mean about the serifs/terminals/white
    corners. I don't think they're all perfect, of course, but lots of fonts have
    varied terminal features, even [[http://typophile.com/ad/redirect/55757/|Jeanne
    Moderno]]. Please, if you could, hone in on what seems wrong to you and how it
    could be corrected."
  created: '2009-03-13 17:17:32'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Hi Jason,\r\nI think there are some interesting quirks in the shapes and
    the experimental feel of this is nice, so there's no reason this shouldn't be
    even better than Jeanne Moderno that you referenced. \r\nHowever, I do agree with
    some of the comments earlier. I think there's a bit of disharmony between the
    terminals as well. \r\nIn particular, to my eye, it looks like there's something
    missing on f and j's terminals. I like the barbs on C and G but somehow it doesn't
    work so well for me the other way up on the J. I'd make k's lower leg fancier
    somehow. g and s look oval when I think they could be rounder, look at the eszett's
    curve. The tail of Q feels a bit small. The dip of the V and v looks a bit left
    of centre and I would nudge it right. I don't like Ww and a\xE6 either. On adu
    the tail looks a bit floating next to the overshooting curve of the bowls. \r\nThe
    numerals are really interesting, I like the grooves in 137. Can you put a similar
    white cut into the 8 (where the hairline crosses the diagonal), or disconnect
    the ends there? Your alternate 2 and 4 are great.\r\nLook forward to seeing how
    this develops :)"
  created: '2009-03-13 19:04:09'
- author:
    name: mehallo
    picture: 109684
  body: "Thought I'd weigh in, since my types have been mentioned. :)\r\n\r\nThere's
    a lot of interesting stuff going on in your alternates. REALLY interesting stuff
    that's not quite syncing with your basic alphabet.\r\n\r\nSuch as in your second
    esset, @, copyright symbol that could carry your face in a whole, cool direction.\r\n\r\nLOVE
    that second alternate 2 - it's very ... Eastern European.\r\n\r\nLeslie Carbarga
    says it in his Font/Lettering Bible (I'm paraphrasing): anything goes, even mistakes
    - but once you make your decision, repeat it and do it often.\r\n\r\nI see lots
    of little decisions here - but they're not consistent throughout.\r\n\r\nFor example,
    consider taking your @ construction and applying the cool 3D-like strokes to your
    other characters. You could even build an entire alphabet from the way you structured
    your @! The smooth stroke on the bottom with the calligraphic flourish, really
    interesting treatment. What would your other letters look like if they had this
    treatment? Lowercase y, God, even the tail on the Q would benefit sooo much!\r\n\r\n\r\nSome
    other thoughts:\r\n\r\nDon't be afraid to throw a lot away (edit!) in favor of
    getting everything cohesive/working well together. You should see the cutting
    room floor on any of my fonts!\r\n\r\nWhen researching 19th Century Fat Faces,
    I've run across a lot of unusual edges and components that you could also be incorporating.
    With all the small foundries (that eventually made up ATF) producing very odd
    versions of Modern type, there's a lot to reference and build off of; just apply
    what you find in a consistent manner.\r\n\r\nBodoni himself was a tinkering fool
    - with the money and resources to overwork his lettering ad nauseam. Octavo.com
    has a great digital version of his specimen book, there's a TON of stuff in there
    that to this day still hasn't been mined (except for a few font designers who
    have been building off of it). Look at Bodoni's odd numbers - and imagine all
    your round shapes going in that half moon direction. That would be SOOOO cool.
    \r\n\r\nReally, this is a display face, it doesn't have to be totally legible.
    (did I actually say that? That's so not me.)\r\n\r\nStop looking at Tiffany, it
    seems to be holding you back (my opinion). What you're doing is different than
    Tiffany's approach, you could actually end up doing something better. \r\n\r\nStop
    looking at my fonts, they seem to be taking you in my direction and really, you
    have potential to do something unique here if you just create something totally
    ... You. You have some incredible elements in there - you just have to focus on
    a few of them and go for it.\r\n\r\nThe name is good. Memorable. But if you really
    don't like it, that's up to you. Some of the best fonts do have horrible names.
    \r\n\r\n\r\nAlso: take your time. Focus on one letter and work that until its
    finished. Then work it again. Trying to do a whole alphabet at once will just
    drive you mad and you'll end up with some good forms and some forms that haven't
    been fully realized. DON'T RUSH IT and you'll have a better product!\r\n\r\nAnd
    insane as this sounds, I spent 10 years on Jeanne Moderno. Rod Cavazos saw my
    first sketches back in 1998 and it's been a really fun journey, I've learned a
    TON about modern types - and I'm no where near finished yet (there is more jeanne
    on the drawing board) \r\n\r\n:)\r\n\r\ns."
  created: '2009-03-14 23:01:00'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "While the first version (caps only in a day and a half) seems rushed, it
    was little more than a sketch. I just sketch directly in FontForge sometimes.
    It helps to keep my thoughts organized, though it is limiting in its way. (I sketch
    type on paper too but it seldom looks like this).\r\n\r\nEffluent is a pretty
    sounding word that is synonymous with sewage. It nicely reflects the low self-esteem
    of this designer, but I question whether that will impair its marketability.\r\n\r\nLikewise,
    the alternates I show are also largely sketches or designs I've rejected from
    the main line; most will likely be eliminated from the final font but they may
    see life in another project. I've already tossed out those inset ball terminals
    I had on f,j and t, and the barb on J is gone in the next version.\r\n\r\nThank
    you Steve for your input. I only mentioned Jeanne Moderno as a point of comparison
    since it is broadly in the same genre of high-contrast modern type that has recently
    in everyone's face here since it became featured here on Typophile. I hadn't even
    been aware of it before then. Sorry about that."
  created: '2009-03-15 14:31:28'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: I just took a look and now see why you think I might have been influenced
    by Tiffany, but honestly, I've not been looking at that before. I might have seen
    it years ago in a specimen book, but I'm not using it as a reference.
  created: '2009-03-15 18:52:18'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "The problem with the W/w may stem from trying to maintain the same angles
    as V and A. That makes them unbalanced if I try to extend one or both of the middle
    arms all the way to the top, or makes them too wide if I don't cross them. But
    if I change the angles, they start looking wonky other ways. I'll have to try
    again on those.\r\n\r\nThe thing I really can't figure out is what to do with
    the b and q serif. I don't like the ones they have and am tempted to give them
    the curl like on a, d, p, and r, but I'm not so sure that's right on all the places
    it already is."
  created: '2009-03-15 21:14:10'
- author:
    name: mehallo
    picture: 109684
  body: "Hey, wasn't accusing you of anything :), just wanted to say:\r\n\r\nYou have
    a lot of ingredients and flavors in your recipe. \r\n\r\nTry distilling it down
    to protein, vegetable and a seasoning or two and you'll end up with a better product.
    Less is, of course, more. :)\r\n\r\nAnd\r\n\r\nIf you don't use the name, I'd
    looooovvvvee to steal it. \r\n\r\nBut then again, Garbage is one of my favorite
    bands, so what do I know? :)\r\n\r\nBest of luck!\r\n\r\ns."
  created: '2009-03-15 22:15:46'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Sometimes I come off a little defensive. I need to not do that so much.
  created: '2009-03-15 22:47:55'
- author:
    name: mehallo
    picture: 109684
  body: Go make type. ;)
  created: '2009-03-17 19:46:43'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I posted a new update to Palormak before turning back to this. Always jumping
    from one font t'nother.\r\n\r\nI made the parentheses, braces, and brackets vertically
    asymmetric. I think it was so they'd look good with either lowercase or all-caps
    or number settings without a baseline shift. I'll have to thoroughly test them
    to see if they actually do that."
  created: '2009-03-19 22:35:09'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: OK, I'm now sorely tempted to replace all the hooked serifs with the flat
    one as seen on the northwest corner of "n". It feels too damn conventional, but
    it may be the only right thing left to do. Maybe I should show off version 7 before
    I do anything drastic.
  created: '2009-04-03 23:02:39'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/EffluentSeven-sample_3608.png]\r\n\r\nUpdated
    since v5 and/or 6:\r\n\r\n%, 1, 2, 4, 7, 8, @, D, J, Q, S, T, U, W, X, a, b, c,
    e, g, s, w, z, \xA7, \xB5, \xC6, \xDF, \xE6, \xF0, \u03A9, \u03C0, \u2022\r\n\r\nSuperscript
    and subscript numbers added also. I'll get the symbols chart up soon.\r\n\r\nMeanwhile,
    I changed many of the lowercase serifs to hooks, as is most usually seen at the
    base of \"a\". I'm not terribly happy with them, so what, if anything should take
    their places?"
  created: '2009-04-07 19:36:38'
- author:
    name: bemerx25
    picture: 112539
  body: Nice work. The ball terminal off the top of the number 4 strikes me as not
    quite fitting. But that's the only thing so far that's sticking out to me. As
    for the lowercase serifs - well you can't really terminate them with a ball approach
    (at least I can't see that being feasible for most of the LC) . So hook or perhaps
    a slim flattened serif (like your UC letters have) may be the only real options.
    Hope this helps.
  created: '2009-04-08 02:55:09'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I can't seem to make a 4 fit no matter what I do to it.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-09 04:41:51'
- author:
    name: bemerx25
    picture: 112539
  body: Hmm. What if it uses just a hairline, no terminal or serif?
  created: '2009-04-10 04:17:59'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: I think I've found a solution to the 4. Will come back soon to show it off
    along with the rest of the font. We'll also get to see if [[http://www.bean-osx.com/Bean.html|Bean]]
    makes a better type layout tool than TextEdit.
  created: '2009-06-03 09:03:53'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I've been away from thin for THIS long? Ugh.\r\nAnyway, I've expanded the
    selection of currency marks. Here you go:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screenshot
    from 2012-09-16 02:55:27_6350.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screenshot
    from 2012-09-16 02:58:29_6034.png]"
  created: '2012-09-16 11:06:11'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: I guess it's OK to bump this.
  created: '2014-02-17 21:26:05'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "I'm diggin' those currency glyphs! \r\n\r\nMy current project is a LP and
    CD jacket design for a rap artist, and when I went looking for a decent currency
    symbol font I found that there's not much out there that has a complete currency
    glyph char ...so, keep going cuttlefish!"
  created: '2014-02-17 22:36:05'
date: '2008-11-07 18:50:22'
files:
- filename: EffluentOne-sample.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/EffluentOne-sample.pdf
- filename: EffluentTwo-sample.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/EffluentTwo-sample.pdf
- filename: EffluentThree-sample.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/EffluentThree-sample.pdf
- filename: EffluentFour-sample.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/EffluentFour-sample.pdf
- filename: EffluentFive-sampleA.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/EffluentFive-sampleA.pdf
- filename: EffluentFive-symbols.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/EffluentFive-symbols.pdf
- filename: EffluentSix-sample.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/EffluentSix-sample.pdf
- filename: EffluentSix-symbols.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/EffluentSix-symbols.pdf
- filename: EffluentSeven-sample.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/EffluentSeven-sample.pdf
node_type: forum
title: 'Effluent v7: New W, w, lots of other stuff. Hooks or no?'

---
