---
author:
  name: Curioustype
  picture: 112066
body: "For those who are unaware, Igino Marini has developed what he calls \"Ikern,\"
  a program/service/concept that generates kerning for type. According to most everything
  I've read about it, the entity that is \"Ikern\" works quite well. But it raises
  questions for me.\r\n\r\nFirst (and should he visit this site perhaps he could provide
  a response), Mr. Marini has been particularly vague when it comes to, well, pretty
  much everything other than generic explanations of the hows and whys of IKern, choosing
  instead to focus more on the positive reviews given by designers for whom IKern
  has been successful. \r\n\r\nSince these are designers I would tend to believe,
  I can only assume Mr. Marini has developed what to some could be an extremely valuable
  program/service/concept. The only problem is, as of today IKern is still very much
  the man behind the curtain. And as far as I can tell, the only real way to find
  out anything about it is to contact Mr. Marini directly via email.\r\n\r\nAm I the
  only person who feels uncomfortable about this? All I really want to know are the
  essentials: is this or will this become \"software,\" available for purchase at
  some point? If it's a \"service\" only, what are the costs? What is the turnaround
  time? How in general terms does the program/service work?\r\n\r\nI also am one who
  believes Mr. Marini has created something that stands a chance of becoming quite
  successful in a variety of ways, but for my own personal reasons I simply don't
  feel comfortable going on fishing expeditions, regardless of how friendly the fish
  might be. Not just in this case, but at all. Therefore, does anyone have the kind
  of basic information on IKern I've asked above?\r\n\r\nAdditionally, if IKern was
  able to produce quality results - and I have no reason to doubt it does - would
  it be something you'd use? Would you buy it if it was released as software? I just
  find the whole thing intriguing but strangely mysterious."
comments:
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: <a href="http://ikern.com/k1/">iKern</a>
  created: '2008-11-09 00:29:46'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: I've seen the site, and been through it top to bottom. That's kinda the point
    here - none of the questions I asked in my original post are answered on the site.
  created: '2008-11-09 00:50:23'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: I was simply adding a helpful link, so that others might be able to get there
    and possibly comment on your questions. :-)
  created: '2008-11-09 03:19:38'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: "step 1. contact Igino\r\n\r\nI've contacted him about iKern, and he answered
    all my questions promptly via email. \r\n\r\nBecause he has created something
    proprietary, and because it's probably something that others might want to duplicate,
    I can respect his decision not to reveal all the machinations behind the curtain.\r\n\r\nnothing
    mysterious or nefarious to report. :)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-10 03:51:06'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: I have an idea why he would be so guarded against disclosing some things,
    for which I do not blame him at all. However, some of the most basic information
    wouldn't be letting the cat too far out of the bag. Such as whether or not it's
    something he does himself or relies on software to complete, the costs, turnaround
    time, etc. I'm sure eventually I'll just email him but before doing that it would
    be nice to know at least some general information; particularly the cost of this
    service. I'd be wary of paying for this service now only to have his creation
    released as software and available for purchase at a rate less than the cost of
    the service. The secrecy of the whole thing just struck me as being strange, that's
    all. I can only wonder how many others are like me, who are not prone to inquiring
    about any kind of product or service without having more information.
  created: '2008-11-10 03:52:40'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: "well, i'm a curious type, too. But a point to consider: Take a look at other
    people who do backend work on typefaces. How many of them post their rates on
    their site? I can't think of any. Would they want their rates revealed on a public
    forum such as Typophile? Would you want your rates and/or proprietary methods
    revealed here?\r\n\r\nIt seems respectful to keep that type of specific information
    out of this thread, unless it's provided by Inigo.\r\n\r\nHis site reveals quite
    a bit. \r\n\r\nFurther curiosity can be satiated with an email\u2014no fishing
    expedition required. :)"
  created: '2008-11-10 05:02:11'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Re <em>program/service/concept</em>\r\nand <em>does he himself or relies
    on software to complete</em>:\r\nFor the designer, it is service, not a program
    to be had. This is said on the website. Google a bit (\"ikern site:typophile.com\").
    Igino Marini has contributed to two or three Typophile discussions and answered
    this and other questions already.\r\n\r\nRe <em>generic explanations of the hows
    and whys</em>:\r\nAs far as can I see, iKern is based on abstract ideas about
    spacing. A description of this tends to be \"abstract\" too. Yet the <a href=\"http://ikern.com/k1/?page_id=9\"
    target=\"_blank\">description</a> is not abstract-as-business-talk but abstract-as-technical.
    (Designers hate abstraction, I know.) Perhaps it helps to know that English is
    not Igino Marini's first language -- nor is it mine -- and I know very well how
    hard it can be to explain conceptions that are far from trivial.\r\n\r\nRe <em>positive
    reviews given by designers</em>\r\nor, which seems to be your question, quality
    of results:\r\nDifferent designers have different ideas about what good spacing
    is. Speaking for myself only, I can say that I was surprised how good iKern's
    results are. (To put it this way: After trying test words on the MyFonts site
    I think that iKern may help you improve the spacing of Morning Sans.)\r\n\r\nOther
    issues have been dealt with by beejay and others already.\r\n\r\nIf you feel more
    comfortable with an application that you can install on your own computer, there
    also is <a href=\"http://fonttools.org/\" target=\"_blank\">KernMaster</a>. Whether
    service or application or manual work, or a combination of two or all three, really
    depends on you, your expectations, or how much you want to control everything.
    The latter causes me to do everything by myself but I am aware that this is irrational
    and not always backed up by facts, and am trying to get rid of this attitude."
  created: '2008-11-10 10:24:37'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I never knew that KernMaster actually auto-kerns. And even if I have to use
    dollars to buy it, if the output is good, it\u2019s worth the money! As I DTL
    product I expect it to be good, but would anyone care to comment about the quality
    of the output?"
  created: '2008-11-10 15:18:49'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: It is sad to see so many of my fellow young designers come here looking for
    ways to automate or sub out fitting and kerning. These are just as essential to
    typeface design as drawing outlines. The way to properly space a font is to do
    it yourself. The way to learn how to properly space a font is to keep designing
    and spacing new fonts. Your first fonts are not going to be fit well. But whose
    first fonts have good outlines or lettershapes either? You will get better. Do
    not invest money trying to find short-cuts. Work hard. For a long time. It will
    be worth it in the long run.
  created: '2008-11-10 15:27:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Drawing the outlines the first time is not the last time. The interaction
    of spacing and kerning causes us (well, at least me) to revisit the outlines to
    delve into fitting and redrawing. In the process, I can see problems in the drawing.
    I don't know how to pluck one part of the process out and make sense of the rest.
    Perhaps, like Karsten, I want to control it all. I am still learning what makes
    the whole thing tick. I may never have the whole answer but I have always needed
    to know how things worked.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-11-10 15:39:54'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "That's a good point, Chris. I can't design a typeface without taking its
    spacing into account, and often adjust the shape of letters to address spacing
    problems. \r\n\r\nI don't imagine Ikern, or anything similar, would be much help
    at all with a connecting script, for example. The only way to fix the spacing
    in a connecting script is to change the shapes of the letters. \r\n\r\nMaybe it's
    possible to draw all the letters first, then space the letters, the end. To me,
    it's a loop, not a one-way street."
  created: '2008-11-10 16:23:46'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Like Chris and Mark, I have found that modifying letters in the process of
    kerning is something I feel a need to do. This has been particularly true with
    the swash letters that are part of the font I am finishing. IKern sounds very
    good, but I think having a application such as FontMaster, that I can deal with
    interactively, altering letters if I want, is something I would be more comfortable
    with in the future. (This first time I felt I had to do it all to develop my eye;
    in future I would judge a computer-generated result better.)\r\n\r\nBecause I
    suspect a lot of designers feel like Karsten, Chris and Mark, I have a feeling
    that IKern might prosper better as an application rather than a service. But of
    course I don't know. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-10 16:48:46'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: "I love all the interesting comments here. Among them:\r\n\r\n\"For the designer,
    it is service, not a program to be had. This is said on the website.\"\r\n\r\nI
    realize it's a service in regards to interaction between Mr. Marini and a designer.
    My question was more along the lines of, does he go into a font and kern it after
    applying some script/formula/whatever, or has he created actual software for it?
    I'm thinking in terms of compatibility here.\r\n\r\n\"After trying test words
    on the MyFonts site I think that iKern may help you improve the spacing of Morning
    Sans.\"\r\n\r\nNo kidding ... I totally suck at kerning and spacing. But not for
    lack of lengthy, frustrating effort. What especially drives me nuts is the difference
    in the appearance of kerning just between two different applications. If I test
    the kerning in Quark, it's almost guaranteed to look different how it appears
    in Microsoft Works. And that's just kerning. Even checking the spacing in Notepad
    vs. Wordpad is mind-boggling. All of which of course fails to even mention how
    it all looks in print. In many ways it's like a house of cards. As an aside, I
    think you'll see an ongoing correlation between my confidence and knowledge in
    kerning with the cost of each released typeface.\r\n\r\n\"I can\u2019t design
    a typeface without taking its spacing into account, and often adjust the shape
    of letters to address spacing problems.\"\r\n\r\nI'd love to hear some examples
    of this. I would assume this also means you often adjust the spacing to address
    problems with the shapes of letters, correct? Just curious, because relying on
    one without the other, in my mind, makes one more important than the other.\r\n\r\n\"Do
    not invest money trying to find short-cuts. Work hard. For a long time. It will
    be worth it in the long run.\"\r\n\r\nI work very hard and am definitely improving
    at it, if not due to sheer repetition. However I'm not sure I'd call effective
    automated kerning a \"short-cut.\" I wouldn't call it the end all, be all either.
    At this point I'm still trying to feel my way around because I see so many different
    avenues both taken and available. For example, I've seen highly talented designers
    turn over an entire typeface to be kerned by another individual, who then does
    it manually and not by applying automation. Is that considered a short-cut? If
    I had a partner who was a kerning whiz but didn't like drawing letters, would
    teaming with him/her be a short-cut? There are all kinds of considerations and
    approaches; and while I continue to grind away at learning the concept as you
    suggest, ultimately my goal is discovering what works the very BEST, all things
    taken into account.\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-10 17:34:33'
- author:
    name: begsini
    picture: 110929
  body: "\r\nwait, designers \"hate abstraction\"???\r\n\r\ni'm a designer, and i
    love abstraction. value it. could not design without it. "
  created: '2008-11-10 21:18:59'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>I\u2019d love to hear some examples of this. I would assume this also
    means you often adjust the spacing to address problems with the shapes of letters,
    correct? Just curious, because relying on one without the other, in my mind, makes
    one more important than the other.</em>\r\n\r\nAn example of adjusting the shape
    of a letter might be changing the position or size of the ear or the bottom loop
    on a two-story lowercase \"g\". When it stands alone, it might look great, but
    it might not fit well next to other letters, and cause gaps or crowding.\r\n\r\nKerning
    is meant to address problems with spacing letters with irregular profiles. Some
    letter shapes have unavoidably irregular profiles (T, L, Y, A, etc.). Sometimes
    these shapes can be altered to lessen the need for kerning.\r\n\r\nI don't see
    how anyone can design a typeface by only considering the shapes of the letters
    in isolation. Characters in typefaces don't exist to be seen in isolation, they
    are meant to look good next to each other. Spacing is not more important than
    character design, or the other way around. They should ideally be considered simultaneously."
  created: '2008-11-10 21:56:35'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I don\u2019t see how anyone can design a typeface by only considering
    the shapes of the letters in isolation.</cite>\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t see how using
    an automatic kerning tool implies drawing the letters in isolation. There\u2019s
    no reason to assume that no preliminary spacing is being done by people working
    this way. I see no suggestion on the part of Igino or curious designers that automated
    process are not being performed in a vacuum and that if a pair doesn\u2019t work
    when the spacing is generated, that the flaw goes unfixed. Just like when using
    a computer to interpolate weights, autospacing is still going to need watching.
    But it does allow for designers who can\u2019t be font designers full-time to
    finish typefaces in much less time, and perhaps do a better job than they would
    if they can only fit in time between work/kids/etc.. "
  created: '2008-11-10 22:14:36'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Okay, so that was a bit of a straw man.\r\n\r\nWhen I started making digital
    fonts, I would draw the characters in Illustrator and then import them into Fontographer
    to do the spacing. I didn't realize until I started using FontLab and had to abandon
    working in Illustrator (because Illustrator import was seriously deficient back
    then--it's better now), that I was making a lot of work for myself by separating
    the drawing from the spacing. When I draw a font now, I keep the metrics window
    open and space the font at the same time I'm drawing it. When I'm done with the
    drawing, I've also done most of the spacing. The only spacing step left is the
    kerning. The only reason the kerning is done separately is because it has to be
    done systematically. If you do it as you go along, it's easy to overlook combinations.
    Plus, you can't know what the problem combinations are until you get the normal
    spacing and drawing finalized. \r\n\r\nTo me, it's all one organic process. When
    I'm finished, everything is just the way I intended. I love finding ways to save
    time and effort, and I use every short cut I can, but not on the design part.
    I see spacing primarily as a design activity, not a routine task I can leave to
    an algorithm.\r\n\r\nI'm not saying there's no value to Ikern or other auto-spacing/auto-kerning
    services or applications. For some situations (maybe yours), it probably would
    save time and effort. I just can't imagine working that way."
  created: '2008-11-10 23:15:36'
- author:
    name: iginomarini
  body: "\u201CThe 'iKern' enigma\u201D is a very good title. I will surely use it
    on my site: it will be a new section for the people who think it'll be worth reading
    it! I really think there is an enigma: why Mr.Miller has spent more time on this
    thread than he would have spent writing me directly? For the other readers I could
    copy and paste at this point: on the very first page of my site I wrote: \u201CI\u2019d
    be glad to let you test iKern\u201D. After everyone's own eye, testimonies are
    what more nearer to the direct experience I can conceive. I would like all the
    type designers I worked with would describe their experience. Some did and I thank
    them. Some don't want to go public this way. And I can't blame them: there's no
    lack of judges. And people ready to put in a bad light other people's work.\r\nHas
    anybody experienced the whole iKern's process so to say that feedback between
    metrics and shapes is impossible or adversed? Karsten tested iKern and his opinion
    is important for me. Who said that using iKern means designing without sidebearings
    in mind? In my site I wrote: the designer remains responsible for \u201Chaving
    primed\u201D the metrics themselves. iKern is just a tool: it won't add originality,
    style, expertise or mastery. It will serve you with the best metrics possible
    whenever you want. For your utility and advantage only. Usually I send 1 or 2
    intermediate versions. Lately I sent 9 final versions in a period of 2 weeks.
    It's not to push a button.\r\n\r\nTo Mr. Simonson: obviously when letters have
    to touch, design and spacing are the same thing and it's not the iKern's game,
    but... One year ago I've been challeged to space a font with letters some touching
    and some not. In that circumstance I added instructions to selectively force contacts
    and change sidebearings accordingly so to have no kerning. That development stopped
    there because it was just a trick really out of the core concept and less elegant
    than just setting manually. About adjusting shapes for letterfitting purposes.
    I have in mind the Fell Types: a good result can be achieved even with some of
    the most technically wrong typefaces ever. Are you sure that, if one would dare
    to \u201Coptimize\u201D them, they would still shine? You also wrote: \u201CI
    see spacing primarily as a design activity, not a routine task I can leave to
    an algorithm\u201D. I wrote on my site explanations, and I will add more and more,
    trying to make understand that iKern is like a car, not an automatic pilot. It's
    alternative to the feet, not the brain.\r\n\r\nTo Mr. Reynolds:  You wrote: \u201CThe
    way to properly space a font is to do it yourself\u201D. Do you think that the
    type designers fully satisfied of my work are less competent than you? How would
    you consider a type company willing to \u201Cinvest money\u201D in a \u201Cshortcut
    sad to look for\u201D like iKern?\r\n\r\nIgino Marini"
  created: '2008-11-11 01:47:07'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Fair enough. I didn't mean to criticize your software/service directly (which
    I admit I don't know much about). And thank you for clarifying what it does with
    your car analogy. I think I understand now.\r\n\r\nI was mainly trying to say
    that you can't not think about spacing when designing a typeface. It seems foolish
    not to."
  created: '2008-11-11 03:09:12'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Spacing is part of typeface design and integral to letter design. That's
    how I work. I have no views on Ikern.\r\n\r\n@igniomarini: <em>Do you think that
    the type designers fully satisfied of my work are less competent than you?</em>\r\n\r\nWhat
    gives you that idea? You're making an ad hoc assumption there about the way Dan
    Reynolds thinks, and we would all be better off if you did not try to read between
    the lines like that or put thoughts into people's brains.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-11-11 04:14:35'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "In brief, Dan, Mr Lozos and Mr Simonson say: Designing letterforms means
    at the same time designing the white space within and inbetween them, so designing
    and spacing go hand in hand.\r\nIgino says: \"Who said that using iKern means
    designing without sidebearings in mind?\"\r\n\r\nLet me split up the discussion
    into two, to make it more clear that there is no contradiction at all. Rather
    there are two issues discussed at the same time:\r\n\r\n(1) <em>Designing type.</em>\r\nAn
    experienced designer does work as Dan, Mr Lozos and Mr Simonson describe, he designs
    with both black and white parts in mind. And of course he would space letters
    as part of the design process, to determine the overall rhythm, and be able to
    evaluate the word image and check individual letterforms' integrity.\r\n\r\n(2)
    <em>Learning to design type.</em>\r\nBefore even considering to use any automatism,
    one should have learned -- the hard way -- what spacing and kerning is about.
    And this is what Dan wrote: \"The way to learn how to properly space a font is
    to keep designing and spacing new fonts.\" There is no way around it. One doesn't
    <em>learn</em> by being served results nor by reading one or two books about type
    design.\r\n\r\nAs to (1), Igino acknowledges this.\r\nAs to (2), Igino's concern
    is not teaching type design but spacing letters.\r\n\r\nRelying on automatism
    or service -- what about human assistants? -- still requires that a designer knows
    what he does and wants. He must look at the work and criticise. Of course one
    cannot criticize without having trained the eye before which, again, requires
    practice, not just being served results or reading books.\r\n\r\nIn so far, I
    do not see any controversy here. The point that is of more interest to me is another
    one: That in type design praxis one may not get around making use of some kind
    of automation, in the long run."
  created: '2008-11-11 06:30:55'
- author:
    name: iginomarini
  body: "To James: You wrote: \"What gives you that idea? You\u2019re making an ad
    hoc assumption there about the way Dan Reynolds thinks, and we would all be better
    off if you did not try to read between the lines like that or put thoughts into
    people\u2019s brains\".\r\n\r\nI just posed a question. Which thoughts are you
    talking about? Maybe are you reading between the lines and putting thoughts into
    my brain? \u201CThe way to properly space a font is to do it yourself\u201D is
    a statement that can't be read between the lines by anyone speaking a language.
    I haven't found another way, except the question, to incorportate a statement
    posed in a postulate form inside a discussion, that is, as far as I know, to share
    experiences and renounce for a while to the absence of doubts.\r\n\r\n \r\n"
  created: '2008-11-11 07:51:30'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "Very well said, Karsten.\r\n\r\n@ James: Please take into account that Igino
    very often has to defend his iKern. He's a nice guy."
  created: '2008-11-11 08:39:18'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I think that iKern is an interesting service. Anyone has the right to use
    it. If they are happy with the results, I am happy that they are happy! \r\n\r\nHowever,
    I do not see a benefit in my workflow of incorporating something of that external
    nature into the process. \r\n\r\nIf a type foundry asked for my recommendation
    (I work at a type foundry, although they have never asked for my opinion on this
    matter), I would not give a simple, one-word answer! On the other hand, I would
    express my skepticism. First of all, a large type foundry is unlikely to enjoy
    giving a typeface to space and/or kern to an individual using their own software.
    If in XX years, that foundry wanted to reproduce the workflow, and said designer/service
    were no longer in business, that would be bad. Second of all, many typefoundries
    are proud of their spacing and kerning habits, because they produce a sufficient
    level of quality across their product range.\r\n\r\nPersonally, as a typeface
    designer (and I am one, albeit a young one), I do not see the benefit in any method
    of spacing and kerning other than spending lots of time doing it yourself. This
    is my opinion, and is not meant as an attack on anyone else's. "
  created: '2008-11-11 12:08:02'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "I do not understand the foundry-related arguments.\r\n(2) Since kerning is
    considered part of design and thus left to type designers, a foundry-as-publisher
    does not have spacing/kerning habits, nor is it of relevance to a foundry whether
    the type designer spaced/kerned manually or not. And since spacing/kerning is
    done by the designer, it is him who pays for kerning (currency being hours) not
    the foundry -- in this respect a foundry does not even need to have an opinion
    about kerning methods. All that counts is quality of the result.\r\n(1) The result
    of iKern is sidebearings plus a kern feature. Manual spacing/kerning also results
    in sidebearings plus a kern feature. Both Igino Marini and a type designer may
    go out of business and worse, as human beings, are likely to pass away one day.
    I never heard that the latter is a problem for any foundry. Once font data is
    there it is there, and nobody cares how it came into being."
  created: '2008-11-11 13:51:54'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Once font data is there it is there, and nobody cares how it came into being.\r\n\r\nSmall
    correction: font users indeed have no reason to care, but creators of new fonts
    may be very interested in techniques that worked well and those that save time!"
  created: '2008-11-11 13:57:23'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Oh, Karsten, I very respectfully disagree :(\r\n\r\n(2) Having a designer
    carefully space and kern is a spacing/kerning habit. When foundries release designs
    produced by external designers, they still stand behind the data, it is part of
    the brand they work with. While each font in a foundry may have been designed
    by separate designers, the fonts are still produced and released uniformly. A
    foundry may have an \"art director\", who looks over designer submissions and
    makes suggestions for improvement. It has long been the case that many designers
    do not submit one round of completed files, but several different, improving versions.
    When a foundry or a library releases a new typeface design, the fonts represent
    a process between the designer and the foundry. Even if the foundry does not do
    the spacing and the kerning (and they shouldn't), they still do care how their
    fonts are spaced and kerned, and how they appear in print, onscreen, etc.\r\n\r\n(1)
    It is always important how products you distribute come into being. Companies
    with traditions or with \"long tails\" very often go back into their archives.
    Perhaps a custom client wants to have a version of a typeface, with just slight
    variations, or more weights/styles/etc. It is good to be able to go back into
    the native files, and be aware of how things were produced, as well as to be able
    to repeat these results (or at least closely repeat them). Sure, you could re-kern
    a font so that it had the same values as an iKerned font. But if a foundry used
    iKern for all its new releases, and it then canged the character set of a font
    five years later, it would ideally want to send the new font data back to re-iKerned
    before its re-release. With one man operations, this is difficult to guarantee.\r\n\r\nI
    should state that of these two points, number two would be more important to me
    if I were a foundry/distributor/reseller/etc. than number one."
  created: '2008-11-11 15:12:39'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "No worries about disagreeing.  :)\r\n\r\n(2) I am aware of the process you
    describe. And still the foundry is interested in the result -- quality standards
    to be met. The way in which a designer arrives at the result only becomes relevant
    if there is a need for improvement, then indeed one asks, and what is your approach,
    conceptually, that lead you to, uh, this?\r\n\r\n(1) I do not see why, in your
    example, someone would want to entirely <em>re-kern</em> an expanded font to imitate
    previous kerning, if kerning already exists and only needs to be expanded. There
    simply is no difference between iKern output and manual output, in formal terms,
    both is a kern feature, i.e. kerning + class information. If you expand the glyph
    set, you'll end up doing some kerning additions, regardless of who/what the kerning
    in the first place."
  created: '2008-11-11 16:58:58'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: "This is all terrific stuff; I especially enjoy and appreciate debates in
    which both sides have equally valid positions. To respond directly to a few things:\r\n\r\n1.)
    Believe it or not, Mr. Marini, I am somewhat shy when it comes to one-on-one interaction
    of any kind. However, I can't say that's the entire reason I addressed the Ikern
    issue here. I'm not sure I know the main reason to be honest. If I had to guess
    though it would be this: Without knowing more of the fundamentals regarding your
    service, I'm afraid one of two things would likely happen. Either A.) I'd feel
    guilty for taking advantage of what seems to be a great service or B.) I'd get
    all excited about the whole thing and find out I couldn't afford it. \r\n\r\nIt
    would be different if I knew IKern might be released as software, at which point
    even if I couldn't afford it at first I'd at least be able to rearrange my already
    minimal finances and \"splurge.\" I guess my whole point, then, is with more up-front
    information, many of my questions could be answered without the need to disclose
    any proprietary information. I'd suspect there are many people who might consider
    this service but would be embarrassed should they realize it was not affordable
    for them; and those same people might not feel comfortable with accepting any
    \"service\" for nothing.\r\n\r\n2.) I thought this comment was profound: \"This
    first time I felt I had to do it all to develop my eye; in future I would judge
    a computer-generated result better.\" I believe this is important as well because
    no one is saying designers are frothing at the mouth to completely eliminate the
    kerning process via automation. I think most if not all simply feel like they
    have a better chance at success, kerning-wise, if they are provided a \"launching
    pad\" so to speak and then make adjustments from there. \r\n\r\nBesides, the bottom
    line is this: even for those who insist on doing things manually, I would think
    amidst a thousand kerning pairs there would have to be at least a few identical
    ones between your manual work and that of a program. And if that's the case, then
    how is it different to kern a typeface with X amount of space between characters
    (pre-kerned) and Y amount of space between  characters (after automated kerning
    is applied)? Even if the latter was off, certainly it would seem to have pointed
    a designer in the right direction. I can't imagine IKern creating a +44 kerning
    figure to a pair you'd actually kern at -50. However if IKern generated a value
    of -26, wouldn't you still be closer to the final manually generated value than
    if you'd started at zero? \r\n\r\nIn the end it's all about analyzing - be it
    what IKern produces or what you do manually. I think if one were to fully understand
    the results IKern generates and adjust as needed - even if it requires adjusting
    every single potential pair - in the end you'll still have the kerning you want
    for your typeface. As for me, if obtaining the best kerning for a font required
    me to sing the national anthem and manually kern only the letter \"G,\" I'd be
    at \"OH say can you see,\" before anyone knew it."
  created: '2008-11-11 17:49:02'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "@Ignio: <em>I just posed a question. Which thoughts are you talking about?
    Maybe are you reading between the lines and putting thoughts into my brain?</em>\r\n\r\nNope.
    You did not just \"pose a question\". It wasn't an innocent question. You phrased
    it in a leading way, leading to your own conclusion about how Dan thinks by way
    of suggestion and implication.\r\n\r\n<em>\u201CThe way to properly space a font
    is to do it yourself\u201D is a statement that can\u2019t be read between the
    lines by anyone speaking a language. I haven\u2019t found another way, except
    the question, to incorportate a statement posed in a postulate form inside a discussion,
    that is, as far as I know, to share experiences and renounce for a while to the
    absence of doubts.</em>\r\n\r\nCome again? Can yopu put it in plainer English
    please?\r\n\r\n@Jos: <em>@ James: Please take into account that Igino very often
    has to defend his iKern. He\u2019s a nice guy.</em>\r\n\r\nToo much an assumption
    of bad faith on my part, and more reading between the lines coming from both Jos
    and Ignio here. I never implied Ignio is not a nice guy. I only questioned his
    rhetorical stance and what *appears to be* an attempt to put thoughts into Dan's
    brain. I even took the time to explain that I have no views on IKern. I *did say
    as much*. I'm not taking anyone's side in this discussion. All I'm doing  is defending
    one participant.\r\n\r\nBut a few of you are determined to see my intervention
    as some kind of attack.\r\n\r\nThe thing that would help most is to cease assuming
    bad faith. It gets none of us anywhere. I did not assume bad faith regarding Ignio's
    question for Dan. He asked a leading, loaded question, plain and simple. If Ignio
    can't see that or admit it, that's his problem, but it shouldn't be Dan's problem.\r\n\r\nDo
    you people think you can handle that? Evidently you can't deal with it without
    abreacting, since the response has not been rational, and typically full of logic
    holes. I don't think I am asking or driving at a lot. It isn't exactly harsh criticism.
    I'm trying to reason with you guys, and it looks like at least one of you is determined
    to turn a polite discussion into a pissing match. I won't say who because personal
    remarks abot typophilers as people don't belong at typophile.\r\n\r\nIgnio said:
    \"Do you think that the type designers fully satisfied of my work are less competent
    than you?\"\r\n\r\nThat's a leading, loaded question and quite suggestive. Hardly
    innocent. You literally asked if Dan thinks the type designers happy with his
    work are incompetent compared to himself (Dan).\r\n\r\nMan, you people wouldn't
    last five minutes in my world (with the exception of Dan and Chris).\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2008-11-11 22:54:34'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "James, don\u2019t be so harsh \u2014 there are cultural factors in play here.
    If you\u2019d transpose Ignio\u2019s reactions into Italian you would understand
    there is no malice intended. \r\n\r\nYou, on the other hand, could be a bit more
    considerate, or one would have to classify your stance as typical American, which
    would be ironic, right?\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2008-11-11 22:58:31'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "> I\u2019m not taking anyone\u2019s side in this discussion. All I\u2019m
    doing is defending one participant.\r\n\r\nWell ... that's exactly what *I* did.
    No reading between the lines."
  created: '2008-11-11 23:09:58'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I'm not put off by any of Igino's comments about iKern. It is his product,
    and I am sure that he is proud of it. I am also sure that there are many customers
    who are happy with its results. I only lament the general discussion that there
    might be a way to simplify spacing and kerning in the typeface design process.
    In general, I have to say that I tend toward James Montabalno's comments in many
    of the previous thread about this topic. Thank you for trying to clarify things
    anyway, James.\r\n\r\nWhat interests me most are typefaces. Not concepts or even
    processes, but typefaces\u2026 the end result. I like good typefaces. I think
    that most good typefaces are produced a certain way, and that there is certain
    evidence pointing to this, but hey! I could be wrong.\r\n\r\nBert, I wouldn't
    classify James or his responses as typically American. Although, I have to admit
    that I don't know what typically American is\u2026 and I'm not sure that there
    is anything typical about all Americans ;-)"
  created: '2008-11-11 23:11:56'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'James is Australian. '
  created: '2008-11-11 23:17:57'
- author:
    name: iginomarini
  body: "I would like to say to everybody, and particularly to Dan, that I've never
    felt as being under attack. If there is an 'enigma' it is: why every time the
    word iKern appears on Typophile the same discussion raises? Since nobody questions
    the quality of its output, then is the context that have to be wrong. The metrics
    are in charge of the designer when he designs and also of the typographer when
    he set: these are the latest remarks. Every time cristicisms consist in traditional
    paradigmas applied to a process that's different and there's no way I could let
    envisage that difference. There is no discussion when someone says: I did so for
    years so this is the right way. It's just like writing posts in the critique section
    without having seen the fonts \u201Cdiscussed\u201D. This is what I don't like.
    Anyway I'm the first to admit that my communication could be not enough. I've
    already begun to write new texts focused on these themes that, I'm sure, will
    make the picture clearer. Just wait. In the between I keep asking: test and judge
    yourself. If we were to find two parties in this thread they would be, in the
    end: those who didn't test iKern and those who did. Is this meaning something?\r\n\r\nIt
    seems to me that Dan essentially described Linotype that surely have one of the
    most, if not the most, wide and structured \u201Cproduction department\u201D.
    On the other side there are one-man companies that probably don't sell licenses
    to institutions, banks or similar (for the moment). All the rest is in the between.
    I think that spacing and kerning are costs in any case. I can only say that to
    have, for example, an 800 glyphs font spaced and kerned in a few hours could make
    some difference somewhere. I'm not only referring to costs and timelines (that
    are money too). I'm referring to the fact that this possibility could shift the
    (market / dimensions structure) ratio and the (quality / dimensions structure)
    ratio to higher levels.\r\n\r\nAbout iKern being a service: I don't think it will
    be a service the way it is today forever. iKern consists of two parts: an engine
    and a post processing module. The tuning of the engine really depends on the glyphs'
    shapes. The typographical choices are mainly done inside the post-processing module.
    I wouldn't be worried to give it away as a program so that designer could craft
    their own fonts by themself. Or maybe one day as a plugin for InDesign or Quark.
    Who knows? It will be the argument of one of my next texts. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-12 00:43:11'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "Following the info that was provided about iKern I figured Mr. Marini like
    to keep his trade secrets to himself and advertise his product, instead of showing
    a chart with the moving parts. Sounds like old school and it is his prerogative.
    Just email him if you need the service he provides. Looks pretty clear and simple.
    Imagine T. Edison talking widely about his light bulb, showing up the drawings,
    the pictures?\r\n\r\n*****\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enigma_machine\">|\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\|
    The Enigma Code Machine |\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\|</a>\r\n\r\nWidely utilized
    during WWII to encode transmissions across the empire. As the encoded messages
    were, after encoded, transmitted via radio waves it was just a matter of time
    until the Allies cracked the hardware and the code, ending the atlantic and pacific
    wars. |\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\|"
  created: '2008-11-12 00:48:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Igino, doesn't it make more sense as a plug-in for FontLab, or as alternate
    like FontMaster? From what you explain, the Font designer has a number of choices
    to make to 'tune' IKern, and also once the metrics are set hopefully the user
    of InDesign or Quark won't need to do much further kerning, if any. \r\n\r\nKarsten,
    if you've tested both IKern and FontMaster, how do you compare the results and
    ease of use? "
  created: '2008-11-12 01:00:58'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: '@MissTiffany - typical australians... (i''m one too...)'
  created: '2008-11-12 02:10:17'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>\u2026doesn\u2019t it make more sense as a plug-in for FontLab, or
    as alternate like FontMaster?</cite>\r\n\r\nGiven a recent post to the ATypI list
    by a type designer whose Fontlab plugin is widely used and rarely paid for, it
    might not."
  created: '2008-11-12 02:22:47'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "<cite>James is Australian.</cite>\r\n\r\nAh, that explains it.\r\n\r\n. .
    .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2008-11-12 19:46:14'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "[Software messing things up, sorry.]\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2008-11-12 19:47:58'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: "For the record, I think Mr. Marini is getting a bad rap here in some ways.
    It's almost like people believe Mr. Marini is developing the \"Death Star\" to
    use against the Rebel Typographic Forces on his way to conquering Earth. The truth
    is, whether anyone wants to believe it or not, he might be sitting on something
    quite lucrative before all is said and done.\r\n\r\nHowever, to respond to this
    statement: \"Imagine T. Edison talking widely about his light bulb, showing up
    the drawings, the pictures?\"\r\n\r\nIf my history is correct (and good luck to
    me on that), Edison never made a dime on the light bulb, or anything else he invented,
    instead choosing to name it something like a necessity for humanity.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    I wasn't particularly concerned with the inner-workings of IKern, just the fundamentals.
    Sorta like, \"This a light bulb and it creates light through electricity. Though
    in the test stages, we expect it to be released for general consumption by the
    public in X years/months, at an approximate cost of $X.XX.\" Or, \"we plan to
    provide light bulbs to everyone who'd like to have one before the end of the year
    1903, at a cost of $X.XX per month, or X.XX per usage hour.\" As it is now, all
    that's being said is, \"We've got this thing, a light bulb, that will light your
    home like nothing before it. We'd be glad to test one in your home,\" without
    stating what comes after the test, whether or not it will be widely available
    or merely rented to those with the means to afford it, etc. \r\n\r\nI'm not necessarily
    complaining about the lack of information, I just live in America where people
    come out of the womb suspicious of the big guy with the blue mask and shiny tools
    in his hand. \"Hey, whaddya planning to do with that thing??\""
  created: '2008-11-12 20:31:12'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'For what it''s worth, I suspect that Igino Marini has "built a better mousetrap",
    but that selling it as an application is a better way to go. But then I certainly
    have no expertise on marketing, so I could well be wrong. I am pretty sure that
    it will be easier to sell an application, rather than a personal service, to type
    designers. But how the math--and money--would work out in the long run for Mr.
    Marini I have no idea. '
  created: '2008-11-12 20:55:31'
- author:
    name: acnapyx
    picture: 113394
  body: "I already wrote an answer in the beginning of this thread, and while considering
    if I should post it (it was quite in the harsh tone of Mr. Arboghast), finally
    decided not to. After all, I did not want to dampen anyone's reputation (especially
    Igino's, whose name in fact was so often misspelled in this thread that it sounds
    really humiliating). \r\n\r\nBut - just for the matter of discussion: you can
    in fact compare the results of iKern and KernMaster in quite simple way: take
    a typeface that is known to be kerned with iKern; save the kerning to AFM and
    strip the values to have a set of kern pairs to load into KernMaster. Then try
    to kern the same font. With same set of kern pairs I think you can judge which
    one is better.\r\n\r\nI have to admit Fell Types are not the best examples to
    use, but the results with same list of kern pairs differ substantially. I have
    done this comparison quite long ago, and I haven't kept the results, but sometimes
    KernMaster offers negative values where iKern has calculated positive ones for
    the same pair. So, I trust the intentions of the developers of such algorythms,
    but no software is perfect. \r\n\r\nPersonally I do not feel comfortable outsourcing
    kerning work, and although it is a tedious task, I often rewrite so much the KernMaster
    results that I ask myself why I attempted to automate the kerning in the first
    place. Of course I heavily suck in spacing and kerning, so I need a crutch to
    get the thing halfway, but I do not rely on such software that much, so I still
    do the spacing/kerning by hand - not least to improve my skills.\r\n\r\nPersonally
    I would prefer seeing iKern at least as a web-based service, served by scripts
    on a webserver, if Igino does not want to distribute it as a software. I would
    prefer to do the things myself, alter some settings and see the results in real-time.
    But after all, this is Igino's work, so the decision about how it should be used
    is left to him. If iKern was offered as a software, surely I would try to scrape
    my savings and 'splurge' (hope this happens someday). Until then, I'm not that
    much interested - just curious."
  created: '2008-11-12 20:57:42'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I wasn't trying to say anything specific about Australians. I was only making
    a correction. :^P\r\n\r\nI think it is unfortunate that people have to be so negative
    and can't just discuss things in a way that promotes education. "
  created: '2008-11-12 21:02:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Igino Marini deserves credit for attempting this effort. I have not tried
    it or even spoken to him but I would be curious to see how his service works.
    \r\nI don't think anyone here is trying to insult Igino, I just think we are a
    curious bunch and many of us have been bitten by anything that sounds like it
    is automatic or says it is time-saving. Anyone who has ever tried FontLab's auto-kerning
    can tell you it is a nightmare to fix the mess that it makes and you are better
    off staying away from it. I assume iKern must  be much better than that if Jos
    praises it.\r\nWe have to distinguish the difference between learning what good
    spacing and kerning is (along with becoming skilled in our craft) and having a
    time-saving tool that produces respectable work. The proof is in the pudding but
    most of us have yet to test it.\r\n\r\nTo Igino I will add that if anything I
    said was taken by him as derogatory or insulting, I am sorry and I assure you
    it was not intended. I wish you great success in your work.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-11-12 22:23:59'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: A short story about how I got to know iKern ... For some years I was looking
    for a tool that could do a good auto-kerning job. I first came across iKern via
    Typophile, but because Igino's previous email address was heavely spammed I didn't
    get a reply. In March 2008 I read the"from Moleskine to market" article on iLT
    from Kris Sowerby where he mentioned he did his kerning with the help of Metrics
    Machine from Tal Lemings. I tried to contact Type Supply, but again didn't receive
    a response. Karstens site put me on the trail of DTL Kernmaster, which I thought
    I should keep i mind because it looked like a great option. When I was working
    on a new version of Anivers Igino contacted me via my blog and I recieved a reworked
    version of my earlier Anivers regular. I wasn't aware at that moment that iKern
    could also do auto-spacing. Igino was able to capture the spirit of Anivers with
    a spacing and kerning that made it sing. That really convinced me and we decided
    to collaborate on the iKerning of the complete Anivers family. In the process
    different versions were send to and from and always I felt I was in control of
    the workflow. You can [[http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/exljbris/anivers/|*test*]]
    the free regular end result for yourself. After that Fertigo Pro and Museo Sans
    followed.
  created: '2008-11-13 00:24:05'
- author:
    name: iginomarini
  body: "At this point I think a clarification is needed. Every discussion on iKern
    as a marketing model, are out of place from the beginning because simply there
    is no a planned marketing model. iKern is not my job and is not my living. I see
    Jos has talked about how we first met on Anivers. He hasn't talked about his efforts
    to convince me to be paid because otherwise he would have felt like stealing.
    This is my marketing model! So if I had to spend six years developing a project
    to make some money being this project an autometrics tool then I wouldn't be that
    smart. If I wanted more money I would have worked more. Just simply. I spent a
    lot of time on iKern because I don't sleep too much! But, mainly, because it satisfied
    an inner exigence. I've conjugated an ideal of beauty, simplicity, essentiality,
    lightness and truth with logic, method and complexity. My arid talents. I've found
    my personal way to create something. It still makes me somewhat happy. This is
    the real reason. What's more I'm also an engineer. That's why I had to make something
    that works well. Having this thing in my hands it seemed natural to me to propose
    type designers to enjoy. I thank Chris for his wish of success. My success already
    is when the iKern's output is defined \u201Cfantastic\u201D, \u201Camazing\u201D
    and so on by everyone used it. My success is when someone thanks me for having
    solved his problem. My real satisfaction is when Jos says: \u201CIgino was able
    to capture the spirit of Anivers with a spacing and kerning that made it sing\u201D.
    \r\nI have already said that today iKern is a service. I'm imagining how it will
    be tomorrow. Today I feel comfortable this way for many reasons not being the
    last that it's still a work in progress and that I wouldn't want to be in the
    position of having to defend my job because of others' errors. Not in this phase
    when I have still a lot to do defend my job itself! I still think the service
    it's a good way. On my site I've tried to explain, and I will do more, why it's
    not a conceptual error to conceive an intermediate figure between the type designer
    and the typographer. Type designers and typographers permitting! About the costs.
    I have to say it's not me who decided my basic fee. So I'm confident it's correct.
    I say basic fee because I keep the freedom to decide case by case. Let's say it's
    the equivalent of three hours of work: so everyone spending more than three hours
    spacing and kerning a font should be glad."
  created: '2008-11-13 03:56:53'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "Hi Igino and Jos, one question, does the type designer do much spacing themselves
    before handing the files over to iKern, or does the iKern service look after that?\r\n\r\nand
    to those who have been against this initiative, how is it different to hiring
    a 'spaceing and kerning specialist'? I'm pretty sure i've heard it's not uncommon
    for some type designers to have their files optimised by others (usually from
    the foundry.\r\n\r\nAll this talk of spacing a kerning makes me wonder why Mrs
    Eaves has not been re-spaced for text settings, does anyone know why?"
  created: '2008-11-13 04:32:22'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: 'Yes, I do space myself, because it is part of the design, but much more global
    than before. Often I ask Igino for an iKern pre-run when I''ve determined how
    I want most characters to be spaced. '
  created: '2008-11-13 08:59:12'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "I have no experience or opinion of iKern. But, as something of an aside,
    I'd like to point out that historically the type designer was not always the person
    who did the fitting.\r\n\r\nDwiggins left all of the spacing of his types to the
    Mergenthaler drawing office, under the supervision of C.H. Griffith. Dwiggins
    had a very specific and cultivated sense of what made for good spacing -- he knew
    it when he saw it and was frustrated when he didn't. He would make general suggestions
    on the overall spacing he felt was appropriate to any given design he was working
    on, commenting about key starting-point sidebearing values on his drawings. And
    he would give feedback on proof after proof. But he did not do the fitting himself,
    and generally deferred to Griffith's direction. \r\n\r\nAs I tried to draw out
    in my talk at ATypI in Vancouver many years ago, Dwiggins may have had an excellent
    sense of good spacing, but he was completely wrong-headed about how to achieve
    it. There is a lengthy correspondence between the two men, through the years,
    about good spacing (\"picket fence,\" Dwiggins would say). But WAD had some naive
    thoughts about how to accomplish it. In his defence, I am convinced that if he
    had had the opportunity to do the work himself, he would have pretty quickly realized
    the error of his ideas.\r\n\r\nIn at least one instance, when the fitting of the
    first Falcon design could not be achieved to the satisfaction of the two men,
    the conclusion was finally reached that there was something fundamentally flawed
    in the design. Dwiggins scrapped the first Falcon and started over completely,
    \"root and branch.\"\r\n\r\nMy point is that while we today consider the shaping
    of letterforms and their spacing as an integral practice (and there's certainly
    a strong tradition of that as well), there is important precedence for a collaborative
    and even specialized approach to the process. What I understand of Jos and Igino's
    collaboration, with designer and engineer working in concert, sounds very similar
    to WAD and CHG's relationship.\r\n\r\n-- Kent.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-13 14:12:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I have not worked with Inigo, so can't really comment on iKern. I have used
    KernMaster, and while I ended up completely revising the results I will probably
    try it again on future projects: the results were not satisfactory, but they were
    heading in the right direction and helpfully indicated which pairs might need
    kerning (I used a large bore shotgun approach, with a giant list of potential
    pairs for KernMaster to chew over).\r\n\r\nIn response to Dan's comments, I do
    think it is absolutely critical for designers to understand how to space type
    correctly by eye, including kerning. But like many other designers I've talked
    with over the years -- and like David Kindersley before us --, I have the nagging
    sense that somehow it should be possible to automate the process, or at least
    much of the process. And the reason for this is that what I do when I am spacing
    type is systematic, and where there is a system there is the possibility of analysis
    and modelling. The problem I find with auto-spacing methods I have looked at to
    date is not that they don't work, in a general sense, but that they don't work
    the way I work, i.e. that they don't space type the way I space type and hence
    produce different results than I would produce."
  created: '2008-11-13 18:05:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Igino, I think the discussion keeps coming around to marketing because from
    the discussion here, and another I had off line, it seems that type designers
    strongly prefer an application to a service. It is under their control and in
    the long run cheaper to them. \r\n\r\nI understand your feeling reluctant to release
    it as an application if you are still not completely happy with it. But that is
    not the general way with software. Developers publish reasonably good but imperfect
    versions and then sell upgrades. Why not do that, providing type designers can
    deal with the interface reasonably easily? \r\n\r\nAnd as far as blame, nobody
    expects any font software to be perfect, and of course we grumble, but so what?
    The reality is that we're grateful for whatever help we can get, and many will
    pay for it.  \r\n\r\nOh, and from what I can tell on Igino's site, the principles
    behind IKern are something like the method John Hudson once described here, of
    having a shaped envelope around a glyph rather than side bearings. Not the same,
    but some kind of 'spaciness' assigned to each glyph. That seems like a good idea,
    and why I suspect that IKern may be better than the alternatives, though I don't
    know. "
  created: '2008-11-13 19:11:29'
- author:
    name: iginomarini
  body: "Just a rough test with Constantia with default parameters. Above the font
    as is and below iKerned. Kerning can be made tighter or looser in the post-processing
    phase. Sidebearings remain the same unless fine tuned (not here). Fine tuning
    is done varying parameters not moving the sidebearings themselves. By the way
    I often used Constantia as a test font for serifs during development.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IKtestUpp_6548.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IKtestLow_5738.jpg]"
  created: '2008-11-13 20:34:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'This is interesting, Inigo. But I think your lowercase sample of Constantia
    ''as is'' is incorrect: there is indeed kerning between a v a y a that is not
    shown in this image (respectively -50 -20 -40 -20).'
  created: '2008-11-15 03:03:40'
- author:
    name: iginomarini
  body: "Excuse me, John. iKern doesn't have a GPOS reading function but reads only
    the plain 'kern' table. So before importing I had to convert existing kerning
    values having to filter them because the whole body wouldn't entered inside. I
    have lost those lowercase pairs. I'm sorry. Fortunately from an autospacing point
    an analysis is still possible because, as I already said, in iKern kerning can
    postprocessed (by the way chosing a tighter fitting for display size and a looser
    one, as is my example, for text setting) but spacing can't. I have corrected the
    previous image and this it is:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IKtestLow2_5606.jpg]\r\nBeing
    here I think it could be useful to show how this different tightening is. So I've
    prepared another picture showing two possible iKern outputs. Above is applied
    the \"kerning strenght\" level I usually use producing fonts without specific
    request. Below an higher \"kerning strenght\" level that I think is more adapt
    for display setting (even if this a difference that is more noticeable on uppercases).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IKtestLow3_3555.jpg]\r\n\r\nHope
    this helps\r\n\r\nIgino"
  created: '2008-11-15 09:32:31'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: "There is some delightfully heady stuff in this thread. Along the lines of
    automated kerning vs. manual kerning, however, I do have a question to pose to
    the more \"purist\" of the designers here who strongly favor manual kerning:\r\n\r\nHow
    would the following differ from your process of manually kerning an entire text
    typeface, assuming the quality of the results would be the same and assuming the
    font is well-spaced:\r\n\r\n1.) Run the typeface through any of the automated
    kerning programs, be it FontLab's, FontForge's, KernMaster, Lean Mean Fat Reducing
    Kerning Machine, whatever.\r\n\r\n2.) Use the recently discovered (so I was late)
    wonderful script \"automatic text,\" by checking each character against the rest
    and adjusting any runaway pairs.\r\n\r\n3.) Generate and apply class kerning.
    \r\n\r\nWould this still be considered falling prey to the sin of automated kerning?
    Especially if time wasn't a factor? Even if this would potentially be adding an
    unnecessary step - some might say just skip step 1 and go right to step 2 - couldn't
    this process be considered \"legitimate\" if in the end it helped a designer produce
    better kerning than he or she might by taking strictly \"manual\" steps? Better
    yet, could the above process not somehow help designers become more familiar with
    the overall concept of kerning?"
  created: '2008-11-15 15:03:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...couldn\u2019t this process be considered \u201Clegitimate\u201D if in
    the end it helped a designer produce better kerning than he or she might by taking
    strictly \u201Cmanual\u201D steps? \"\r\n\r\nThe only auto kerning programs I
    have tried were FOG and FontLab. I don't know about the others. The two I tried
    sucked and took far longer to clean up than what little value they had. I would
    just analyze your glyphs and define classes and then start kerning the key glyphs.
    The auto thing does not teach you anything and it makes a mess to boot. \r\n\r\nIf
    you are already comfortable with kerning and want to try one of the products or
    the service iKern, give it a shot. I would think you would need to have a firm
    knowledge of kerning before you can judge autokerning, though so I would not try
    it until you learn what it is.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-11-15 16:17:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: One of the things I would like to see in an autokerning tool would be interactive
    reiterations (although I realise that the processing load would be very heavy).
    What I am thinking of is a tool within which one could first apply global autokerning,
    and in which one could then manually edit individual pairs <em>and have those
    edits intelligently reflected in the rest of the kerning data.</em> So, for example,
    if I decided that the kerning between av should be tighter, I could edit that
    pair to reduce the space between them; this would automatically tighten all the
    rest of the kerning by a relative amount; but then, if I were to say increase
    the space between another pair, e.g. vo, the kerning data would refresh again
    <em>but</em> would do so relative to both the edited av and vo pairs, i.e. a 'touched'
    pair becomes a fixed data point relative to which all the other kerning is floated.
    [Obviously one would also want options to 'release' edited pairs, to allow them
    to become floating again.] One can see, I think, how editing even a fairly small
    number of pairs will make the effect of each subsequent edit smaller, gradually
    solidifying the kerning, so that if the edited pairs are chosen carefully one
    can obtain desired overall kerning iteratively.
  created: '2008-11-15 19:59:26'
- author:
    name: iginomarini
  body: "John, your system would always have to rely on a model behind the \u201Cintelligent
    reflection\u201D of the kerning data (aside from the basic autokerning to start
    with). You propose a different \u201Cinput method\u201D for this model: \u2018from
    lower level (kerning values) to higher level (\u201Cintelligent reflection\u201D)\u2019
    instead of \u2018from higher level (properties) to lower level (kerning values)\u2019
    as I\u2019m doing with iKern. Your method wouldn\u2019t have an intrinsic safety
    if you choose kerning values in a non congruent manner but you probably would
    object that \u201Cyou know\u201D well the values to use. My system, instead, is
    tailored on me: I wouldn\u2019t know well a priori the right values for the chosen
    key pairs. But I can recognize if they\u2019re good or not when I see them.\r\n\r\nYour
    approach would let you work essentially on an unique configuration you tend to
    since you begin to fix some of the elements. I personally prefer the iKern\u2019s
    \u201Cinput by changing parameters\u201D method: I just have to control what happens
    if I change one element at a time so I always know what I\u2019m doing. And I
    also like the possibility of looking (or let look) at different letterfitted configurations
    in real-time and then choose (or let choose) one of them. And, above all, I think
    is a faster and less tiring method that requires less focused choices to be made.
    But I can understand that you could prefer an approach more tied to your \u201Cforma
    mentis\u201D and relying on your ability and experience.\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-16 03:58:44'
date: '2008-11-09 00:23:35'
node_type: forum
title: The "Ikern" enigma

---
