---
author:
  name: piccic
  picture: 110375
body: "I don't know if it's an intelligent question, but I am trying to understand.\r\nWhen
  you have to generate an OpenType font (OTF or TTF), is it better to consider the
  glyph coverage in terms of \"Unicode Ranges\" or \"Codepages\"?"
comments:
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Sounds like an intelligent question to me, but the answer will likely depend
    on your notion about the eventual use of your font(s). If they are for text, I'd
    say the thing to pay attention to is *languages* -- for example, there are many
    languages that use the Latin alphabet, or are commonly transliterated using the
    Latin alphabet. Slavishly following either a *codepage* or *Unicode range* formula
    will not give you the best coverage of languages.\r\n\r\nFor Latin-based languages,
    see\r\n\r\nhttp://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/2008/08/extended_latin.html\r\n\r\nThen
    there are the non-Latin languages . . ."
  created: '2008-11-08 20:30:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Ciao Claudio,\r\n\r\nYou might also want to look at this link from Thomas
    Phiney as well:\r\n\r\nhttp://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/2008/08/character_set_terms.html\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-11-08 20:42:28'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Many thanks for your considerations.\r\nYes, I was asking mostly for non-Latin,
    as I see more or less the languages are fully covered by the Latin Extended-A
    (Unicode range). In fact, as I did the Extended-A for an unreleased typeface,
    I see it covers most of \"Adobe Latin\" ranges described by Thomas Pinney (great
    resouce, thanks to him!)\r\n\r\nI wish to consider different typefaces in specific
    ways. I do not intend to draw (at first) a large number of glyphs for a typeface
    which is not meant for big, multi-lingual editorial purposes, inversely I wish
    \u2013 if I decide to include a language \u2013 to make the face enough complete
    in its script as well (i.e. Greek with Politonic).\r\n\r\nI guess it's hard to
    reach economic standards in glyph choices, but it helps a lot making all these
    considerations.\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-08 21:03:37'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Just found while you were posting, Chris\u2026 :=) Many thanks.\r\n\r\nIn
    fact, while looking, I still haven't understood properly the \"Names mode\" in
    FontLab.\r\nApperently it may include any kind of encoding (defined by the text
    files with suffix .enc), so you may use it to create handy sets for your own production,
    but Pinney says \"a code page is an encoding\", so are there encodings listed
    in the \"Codepage\" mode which are the same of the ones in \"Names mode\"?\r\nThis
    thing is not clear to me\u2026 :=("
  created: '2008-11-08 21:09:56'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Names mode relates to the older Type 1 format, in which each glyph was given
    a name (but no code). The encoding was supplied by a separate look-up table in
    the font. When you're making OpenType or TrueType fonts, the Names mode doesn't
    have any effect on how the font is generated, but can still be a useful way to
    view a font during development, especially since you can make your own encodings.\r\n\r\nCode
    pages and Unicode ranges are just different ways of slicing up the Unicode gamut.
    Code pages relate to different keyboard layouts for different regions and operating
    systems and often support several languages, while Unicode Ranges are subsets
    of Unicode specific to various languages and purposes.\r\n\r\nThe encodings you
    can select while in Names Mode are similar to code pages, but come from the various
    encodings which have been used for making Type 1 fonts."
  created: '2008-11-08 21:59:55'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: By the way, a lot of font designers like to start with the Macintosh Roman
    encoding in Names mode because it contains all the glyphs needed for the basic
    Latin Mac and Windows code pages.
  created: '2008-11-08 22:03:21'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Enlightening, Mark, many thanks! I suspected something similar but it was
    not so clear to me.\r\nGenerally, while designing, I switch from Macintosh Roman
    to custom encodings I am creating, divided per areas (numerals, for example),
    to the Index mode.\r\n\r\nMy question comes from an indecision on considering
    more Code Pages or Unicode ranges instead.\r\nAs charles_e suggested, the main
    concern is the languages covered (at least for me), so the keyboard layouts should
    come as a consequence.\r\n\r\nMark, may I ask you if you use more the Unicode
    ranges? And, if you don't mind, could you tell me how much you covered with your
    new release of Metallophile? I would have asked Proxima Nova, but I prefer to
    consider a more \"self-contained\" family."
  created: '2008-11-08 22:14:09'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I use pretty much the same Unicode coverage as Adobe does in its \"Pro\"
    fonts (but not Cyrillic or Greek as they do with a few). Basically, most Western
    and Eastern European Latin-based languages. I haven't published anything yet outside
    of Latin-based scripts. \r\n\r\nYou can see the entire character set of Metallophile
    in this PDF:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.ms-studio.com/FontSales/pdf/MetallophileSp8.pdf\r\n\r\nAnd
    Proxima Nova's here:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.marksimonson.com/fontspecimens/ProximaNovaOverview.pdf\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-08 23:46:53'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I set type rather than design typefaces. Over the years, we've made a fair
    bit of money when publishers needed a Latin-based language set, where no font
    had the needed characters. Adobe helps out, their EULA allows their fonts to be
    modified as needed.\r\n\r\nThe only non-Latin alphabets I worry about -- the only
    ones where it would be nice to have both the Latin & non-Latin in the same typeface
    -- are Greek and Cyrillic. By all means include polytonic Greek, all the while
    remembering that the classical Greek period lasted over a thousand years, & not
    all is covered in Unicode.\r\n\r\nBut you delude yourself to think that \"most\"
    of Latin is covered by Latin Extended A. One of the vowels with an ogonek is in
    Latin B, as are the characters needed for Yoruba & Pan Nigerian, and probably
    some other African Languages. Thomas Phinney has pointed out that Tagalog has
    a wide audience. Few of the Native American languages are covered with just Latin
    A, including Apache, Navajo, Kiowa, and Lakota. Some can't be covered with any
    of A, B, and extended additional, but can with with either a *mark* or *ccmp*
    feature. (I believe *mark* isn't currently supported by Adobe, but it is coming.)\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    that's why I think it more important to cover languages than somewhat artificial
    codepoints."
  created: '2008-11-09 00:30:17'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Many thanks, Mark. I think Metallophile (and maybe even Proxima) does not
    include most of Latin Extended-B and the additional glyphs mentioned by Charles.
    That's what I was thinking about, since \u2013 in the end \u2013 I have no specific
    language audience in mind (for Latin), so I am quite torn between the idea of
    keeping the face self-contained and the idea of having a more thorough Latin coverage.\r\nIt
    would be important to see which languages (of wider use) are covered by Latin
    Extended-B. May it be there's somewhere such a resource?\r\n\r\nI spoke of codepeages
    merely to rationalize my design approach, since I am a mess and I always tend
    to lose myself in details (i.e. spending hours to design an accent), so I have
    to find the right balance considering both language coverage and the typeface
    artistic framework."
  created: '2008-11-09 11:48:41'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "Like Charles said, one should base the decision which characters to include
    in a font rather on language support than on Unicode ranges.\r\n\r\nThere are
    some resources about languages (or rather <em>orthographies</em>) and their required
    characters:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.eki.ee/letter/\r\nhttp://www.evertype.com/alphabets/#1.2\r\n\r\nBut
    there's also a definition problem, because often it's not precisely clear which
    characters are really needed.\r\n\r\nTake, for example, German: Ask a German school
    kid and he'll probably tell you the alphabet consists of 26 letters. But what
    about \xE4, \xF6, \xFC and \xDF? That makes it 29, and is widely agreed to be
    sufficient for German. The eki.ee site adds \xE0 and \xE9, so then we can write
    \xBBCaf\xE9\xAB and \xBB\xE0 la carte\xAB, as well as Andr\xE9 and Ren\xE9, which
    are common given names in Germany. But still Mrs Ho\xEBcker and Mr Ru\xEBtz aren't
    happy because they cannot write their surnames, which are proper German names,
    no foreign names btw. For historic texts you might want to add \u017F (long s).\r\n\r\nNot
    to forget foreign names which might occur frequently depending on the kind of
    text that you are setting. Schools in Berlin would definitely need fonts for Turkish,
    Polish, Serbian, French, Croatian, Vietnamese (to name the biggest groups) to
    properly write the names of their pupils (non-Latin scripts would be transliterated)
    in German texts (actually they probably don't care)."
  created: '2008-11-09 13:18:24'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Many thanks, Jens, pages of great interest.\r\nAny of your observations comes
    as precious material\u2026\r\n\r\n<cite>For historic texts you might want to add
    \u017F (long s).</cite>\r\nThis comes always out as an \"automatic\" design, when
    I take the effort to design the eszett/German double s, which is one of my favorite
    glyphs."
  created: '2008-11-09 14:05:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Jens,\r\n\r\nGREAT LINKS!!! Thanks!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-11-09 16:35:41'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Jens -- really good considerations!\r\n\r\nOne remark about <a href=\"http://www.eki.ee/\"
    target=\"_blank\">www.eki.ee</a>: It is a brilliant collection, yet I remember
    that their database contains PUA codepoints which Adobe has used in some of their
    earlier fonts, like <a href=\"http://www.eki.ee/letter/chardata.cgi?search=m+with+circumflex\"
    target=\"_blank\">this one for M/m with circumflex</a>. The site does acknowledge
    this (see \"not an UCS character!\" on the page I refer to) and one should take
    the warning seriously and think twice before using such a codepoint. (And compare
    e.g. with Adobe's current practice.)"
  created: '2008-11-09 20:24:37'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Now that we have Karsten I feel even more confident\u2026 :=)\r\nWhat could
    happen if I use a Unicode value which is not standard?\r\n\r\nThis reminds me
    I have to post another question to see if I can try to set my own 'conventions'
    to assign Unicode values to non-Unicode glyphs (like the Small Capitals)\u2026"
  created: '2008-11-10 15:53:03'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>What could happen if I use a Unicode value which is not standard?</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    results will be unpredictable if the user changes the text set in your font to
    a different font. (By unpredictable results, I mean the glyph that appears in
    place of your non-standard coded glyph will be unpredictable, not that the computer
    might blow up or suddenly transform into a bowl of petunias.)"
  created: '2008-11-10 16:00:44'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "<cite>This reminds me I have to post another question to see if I can try
    to set my own \u2019conventions\u2019 to assign Unicode values to non-Unicode
    glyphs (like the Small Capitals)\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nShort answer is: Of course
    you can. That's what the Private Use Area ranges are for.\r\n\r\nThat said there
    are some organizations that have laid (unofficial, non-binding) claim on parts
    of the PUA for special purposes ([[http://mufi.info/|MUFI]] and [[http://www.evertype.com/standards/csur/|Conscript]]
    being but a couple), as well as corporate assignments, like uniF8FF being used
    for the Apple logo. \r\n\r\nIt's been said many times on this site and elsewhere
    that you're not supposed to give unicode numbers to glyphs like small caps or
    ligatures and to address them solely through OpenType features, but some programs
    won't recognize those off-list characters without a unicode number."
  created: '2008-11-10 23:17:03'
- author:
    name: guiyong
    picture: 115599
  body: "I am new here with little experience. Can a person please tell me in short
    language how to understand this subject? I use Macintosh System 7 for graphical
    purpose.\r\n\r\nAdvancing gratitude.\r\nGui Yong"
  created: '2008-11-11 02:00:46'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I don't know if there is a simple way to explain it, but here is a link to
    a discussion in which that was attempted:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/39726\r\n\r\nSystem
    7.0 (1991) predates the first release of the Unicode standard, but System 7.5
    (1995) and later support Unicode via QuickDrawGX. However, not many applications
    supported QuickDrawGX (and therefore Unicode)."
  created: '2008-11-11 02:38:23'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Hi Gui, if your question becomes clearer (and I'd be curious to hear it)
    we may start a separate discussion, beside mine\u2026"
  created: '2008-11-11 15:44:13'
- author:
    name: Roger S. Nelsson
    picture: 114302
  body: "I did A LOT of research before deciding which glyphs to include in the reworked
    fonts on my site.\r\nThe result (based on -among other things- both eki and wiki
    information ;) is presented in this list of languages:\r\n\r\n[[http://www.cheapprofonts.com/Languages.php]]\r\n\r\nThe
    character set I ended up with is made up by:\r\n- the Mac + Windows standard set\r\n+
    Latin Extended-A\r\n+ 8 glyphs from Latin Extended-B\r\n+ 12 Unicoded glyphs outside
    of those ranges\r\n+ 8 glyphs without Unicode values\r\n(A simple rundown can
    be found in the downloadable PDF Catalog ;)\r\n= 65 Latin-based languages...\r\n\r\nEnough
    for my concept, but your mileage may vary ;)\r\nSo, yes, I think a list of supported
    languages makes more sense for an enduser than codepage/unicode block information...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-11 20:09:30'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Many thanks Roger, much appreciated.\r\nBesides, your initiative looks commendable.
    I'd have not thought of it\u2026"
  created: '2008-11-11 20:22:27'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Roger, would you care to comment on *why* you chose to support those particular
    languages?\r\n\r\nLike many such charts, it seems to focus on European languages,
    even quite obscure ones, over equally easy to support languages from the third
    world, even when the latter are spoken by 100x as many people. For example,Tagalog
    (22M as first language, 90M total), or Yoruba (25M people).\r\n\r\nOf course,
    it's easy to imagine one might sell more copies in Luxembourg than the Phillipines.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-11-12 01:49:16'
- author:
    name: Roger S. Nelsson
    picture: 114302
  body: "Well, Thomas - my main concern was to not stray too far away from my knowledge
    area ;)\r\nMy goal is to make very useable multilingual displayfonts, and so I
    had to know how to properly make the glyphs.\r\n\r\nI have previously done many
    customized fonts to cover northern and eastern european languages, so I felt very
    confident I could do proper letter and diacritic design for all Latin-1 and Latin
    Extended-A glyphs. Then I started looking into which languages would be covered
    by these glyphs, and found quite a few additional languages that would be covered
    by adding just a few additional composite glyphs. So I included those, too.\r\n\r\nThe
    reason I cover some obscure european languages is basically that their glyphs
    are covered by these two Unicode blocks and simple composited glyphs.\r\nI don't
    know specifically the usage of e.g. Rhaeto-Romance, but my fonts have all the
    glyphs needed to write it, so I include it it my language list :)\r\nThe Ibreve/ibreve
    glyphs (from the Extended-A block) are included, although their usage apparently
    are for cyrillic languages...\r\n\r\nMany african languages require modified letterforms
    (hooks and curves and loops and whatnot ;) and as I have no direct knowledge of
    how to properly design these (their history and how they are usually implemented)
    I chose to not include them. Because of their sometimes \"awkward\" letterforms
    they would also make kerning much more time-consuming, and all this extra time
    would work against my idea of low-cost fonts.\r\nAND the Eng character used for
    african languages has a completely different design than the Saami Eng - I didn't
    want to muddle things up with that (as I live in Saami-speaking territory this
    is perhaps the most important reason for me :)\r\n\r\nAs for the asian coverage:
    well, I do have Tagalog covered but I may have it sorted wrong (under F for Filipino)
    - a result perhaps (as mentioned in the beginning) of not knowing enough about
    the language. But the glyphs themselves are pretty straight forward ;)\r\n(I will
    probably have to move this entry to T for Tagalog and also call it Filipino/Pilipino
    ;) \r\n\r\nYoruba is a whole other kettle of fish: I did look into it, but the
    character set is full of non-Unicode encoded glyphs, and I found no conclusive
    information about their design and usage.\r\nSame also for vietnamese: there would
    be too much additional work to learn and implement all the needed glyphs - all
    for covering a market I do not really know how to approach.\r\n\r\nI might expand
    the language coverage for the fonts I rework later, though - but as a start I
    have focused on languages where I KNOW how to properly design the glyphs and at
    least have some idea how to approach the markets. Which I will do more actively
    when I have built up a large enough library of fonts. :)\r\n\r\nMy, what a long
    post! ;)"
  created: '2008-11-12 21:03:48'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: In fact, Jens' links are particularly interesting if you worry about transliteration
    of non-Latin languages. Thanks, again! :=)
  created: '2008-11-12 21:39:02'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Covering African languages can indeed involve some problems; see\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/49307\r\n\r\nHaving
    said that, using the characters found in Unicode (and the composites that have
    to be made up) will cover the needs of many users of Yoruba and Hausa. We have
    run into authors that insist it must be <cite>this</cite> way -- say, a bar under
    a letter rather than a dot -- but the number diminishes as Unicode becomes more
    widely adopted. We recently had an author change her mind after first proof. We'd
    set bars under per her initial request, and she decided in first proof that the
    dot was becoming a standard, so we switched to that. Admittedly far easier for
    a typesetter to make these moves than a type designer.\r\n\r\nBut there will always
    be a move towards standardization and what is easy to achieve. For example, while
    Kiowa properly uses macrons below vowels, the use of the underscore is common,
    because it is easy. And one reason it is easy is because even with OpenType, few
    foundries fill out the combining diacriticals. Once that is done, I'd expect more
    & more people to use the macron below rather than the underline.\r\n\r\nSo one
    point might be to fill out the Unicode ranges for Combining Diacriticals and Spacing
    Modifiers -- Lord, even MS Word will use them, though not always place them correctly.
    But to cover a language with characters using multiple diacriticals not precomposed
    in Unicode requires ccmp or mark, and the latter is not universally supported."
  created: '2008-11-13 03:46:39'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "<cite> So one point might be to fill out the Unicode ranges for Combining
    Diacriticals and Spacing Modifiers \u2014 Lord, even MS Word will use them, though
    not always place them correctly. But to cover a language with characters using
    multiple diacriticals not precomposed in Unicode requires ccmp or mark, and the
    latter is not universally supported. </cite>\r\n\r\nIs that a similar issue than
    the one we have in Biblic (and for poeatry) Hebrew?\r\nI aske because I was talking
    of this with Israel in the Hebrew type area, and I still know almost nothing about
    \"Combining Diacriticals\"\u2026 :=(\r\n\r\nAmazingly interesting remarks you
    make about publisher's choices. Here in Italy it's often a luxury if they worry
    to buy a license for setting Greek in a typeface matching latin. Even big publishers
    sometimes use some shareware Greek, or worse\u2026 :=(\r\n\r\nThank you! :=)"
  created: '2008-11-13 14:19:36'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Ah, sorry I missed Tagalog there! And yes, doing African languages as a group
    gets challenging, but some of them are easy or at least easy-ish.\r\n\r\nBut it
    sounds like you did a lot of homework, and thanks for the explanation of how you
    came up with the character set. It's very interesting to me to understand how
    other folks have tackled the problem of character set definition....\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-11-14 06:31:44'
date: '2008-11-08 20:03:13'
title: OpenType fonts - Glyph coverage strategies

---
