---
author:
  name: scottsullivan
  picture: 115949
body: "Hey friends! I'm doing a little work for a local 'zine' thats going to review
  the local music scene, it's called F4 and I'm designing the logo.  Here I have a
  couple examples, I'm using MUSEO and I want to ask you guys about some legibility.
  I was concerned that the '4' form would not be recognizable in sketch (a) so I broke
  the stroke of the 4 at the top in sketch (b). How do you feel about the legibility
  of sketch a and the odd broken 4 of sketch b?\r\n\r\nplease excuse the rough edges
  of these sketches.\r\n\r\na:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/f41_6144.png]\r\nb:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/f42_5948.png]\r\n\r\nThanks!\r\n-Scott
  Sullivan\r\nwww.trifepdgm.com"
comments:
- author:
    name: cj1100
    picture: 116183
  body: "I am not really sure what the diagonal line in the center is there for. It
    makes the f and 4 hard to see. Also the F kind of becomes an E.\r\ni did some
    real fast tweaking to try and bring out your f more. Cool start though, very bold.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/f42_5948_5217.jpg]"
  created: '2008-11-08 22:17:46'
- author:
    name: bemerx25
    picture: 112539
  body: So I see the F4 and the Apple "Command" shape, I think b is better of the
    two, but needs more refinement - there's weird angles happening that make it disconcerting,
    things not lining up parallel as expected. I'm curious as to what your thinking
    is behind making the rounded squares different sizes? It kind of unbalances things
    to my eye. Maybe drop the lower right rounded square to make the number 4 more
    apparent. I think this is a good concept overall though.
  created: '2008-11-09 04:10:55'
- author:
    name: scottsullivan
    picture: 115949
  body: "CJ- Really appreciate your re-working there, but the loops are supposed to
    flow into each other and I'd really like to keep the form unbroken.  I think what
    makes my 'F' form not an 'E' is the position of the horizontal stroke in the middle
    of the form.\r\n\r\nBEM- Hah the 'command' shape! I definitely didn't intend that
    one (though don't mind it). I made the bottom right square that larger size because
    I just went off the shape that was given by the bottom right strokes of the '4'
    I definitely think what's making this unbalanced is the lower right square, I
    think I'll either cut it out all together or make it the same size as the other
    squares.\r\n\r\n- Scott Sullivan\r\nwww.trifepdgm.com"
  created: '2008-11-09 23:49:02'
- author:
    name: scottsullivan
    picture: 115949
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ffour_6366.png]\r\n\r\nSketch A: The
    bottom right loop is removed without the strokes of the 4 being modified.\r\n\r\nSketch
    B: The bottom right loop is removed and the bottom vertical stroke of the 4 is
    shortened to reflect the adjacent horizontal stroke.\r\n\r\nSketch C: The bottom
    right loop is reduced in size to reflect the other loops.\r\n\r\nLet me know what
    you think!  thanks again!\r\n\r\n- Scott Sullivan\r\nwww.trifepdgm.com"
  created: '2008-11-10 00:12:21'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "is it meant to be legible?\r\n\r\ncause if it's not ... it working.\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com/identity.htm\">Graphic Design Melbourne</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.bicyclefilmfestival.com.au\">Bicycle Film Festival</a>\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-10 01:53:55'
- author:
    name: scottsullivan
    picture: 115949
  body: "I could do without your comment Ratbaggy, I didnt ask for assholes to comment,
    only friends.\r\n\r\n- Scott Sullivan\r\nwww.trifepdgm.com"
  created: '2008-11-10 01:56:40'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "<em>\"I could do without your comment Ratbaggy, I didnt ask for assholes
    to comment, only friends.\"</em>\r\n\r\nwoah! way to jump to conclusions scott.\r\n\r\nI
    don't think it's legible, but it doesn't necessarily HAVE to be - particularly
    being for a younger audience.\r\n\r\nbut hey ... whatever.\r\n\r\ngood luck.\r\n\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic Design Melbourne</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.bicyclefilmfestival.com.au\">Bicycle
    Film Festival</a>\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-10 02:00:46'
- author:
    name: scottsullivan
    picture: 115949
  body: "okay, you're right, I may have jumped the gun there, but you could have worded
    your comment a little differently. Sorry guy.\r\n\r\n- Scott Sullivan\r\nwww.trifepdgm.com"
  created: '2008-11-10 02:03:59'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "I agree about it's illegibility. \r\n\r\nI also don't really get the relation
    to the apple 'command' button. What's F4 got to do with music? Try out some different
    concepts and post them here.\r\n\r\npenn"
  created: '2008-11-10 02:55:12'
- author:
    name: scottsullivan
    picture: 115949
  body: "The \u2318 symbol is the 'command' symbol, and the similarities between the
    two symbols are coincidental. I have no idea why they chose F4, I'm just making
    the logo. I don't have anything to do with the actual production of the zine so
    I can't just tell them to re-do the title. \r\n\r\nI'm pleased with the direction
    that the current F4 symbol is taking, and I'd really like some feedback on the
    most current sketches posted above.\r\n\r\n- Scott Sullivan\r\nwww.trifepdgm.com"
  created: '2008-11-10 03:13:05'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: 'Hey Scott, first off I like the icon overall in terms of how it looks, BUT,
    if you ask for a critique on a typophile one of the main issues will always be
    legibility. The logo you''ve designed doesn''t read "F4." if that''s not a concern
    to you I don''t think you''re going to get much positive feedback from this group.
    If you''re pleased with it go with it! Personally I would encourage you to develop
    your idea into a form where "F4" is more legible. '
  created: '2008-11-10 03:37:46'
- author:
    name: scottsullivan
    picture: 115949
  body: "thanks Chris, first off, I'm all down for a critique here and I'm absolutely
    open to anyone's opinion here, but it's more the tone of a previous comment that
    irked me for a second.\r\n\r\nLegibility is a secondary concern to me, this symbol
    will (hopefully) be seen repeatedly so many times that it will actually become
    more of a \u2318 or something like that where every time one would see it, they
    don't think 'that's the letter F and the number 4' they just say, oh thats the
    F4 zine logo, and if they really actually take a moment to look at the symbol
    they see the two forms.\r\n\r\nNOW! legibility aside, what do you guys think about
    the three sketches in the post above?\r\nBottom right loop on or off?\r\nif off,
    which seems better balanced? the full vertical bottom stroke of the 4 or the shortened
    stroke?\r\nI'm considering rotating the lockup very slightly to the left to keep
    it fresh.\r\n\r\n- Scott Sullivan\r\nwww.trifepdgm.com"
  created: '2008-11-10 04:29:11'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "Sorry scott. Ratbaggy made a very sensible comment. I don't know why you
    felt offended in the first place. Sorry but your logo isn't legible at all. You
    have to read this thread to know it's supposed to say F4. If you don't believe
    us, just print it out and hand it over to strangers. Young or old, majority WON'T
    read it as F4. And if you wan't them to refer to the magazine as F4 magazine,
    they will have to read it somewhere it's an F4 magazine. Otherwise it'll just
    be some symbol magazine. Do you intend to use words \"F4 magazine\" in the headline
    as well?\r\n\r\nSo I guess his comment is legit. If you need your magazine head
    to actually read F4, than you're on a completely wrong track. If legibility is
    not important at all (but originality is) than this is the logo to go.\r\n\r\nAny
    comment is welcome, even though you may see it as negative. You will have to judge
    whether you take some advice or not. No need to label people here as \"as**oles\"...\r\n\r\nAnd
    one more observation: I've seen the lines in the last batch are not straight.
    Maybe that's an error. And they also vary from logo to logo.\r\n\r\nAnd to make
    it look more like mac's command symbol maybe don't put the top stroke of \"F\"
    into two levels. Just keep it straight and go into the top right loop. If you
    intend to keep the two levels, then make the change a bit more to the right, because
    it interferes with the \"F\".\r\n___________\r\n<em>Robert Koritnik</em>"
  created: '2008-11-10 10:13:08'
- author:
    name: scottsullivan
    picture: 115949
  body: "thanks Robert. Yes, Ratbaggy's comment was very sensible and I appreciate
    it, however the wording was a bit aggressive and I felt it to be out of line.
    Granted my response was out of line as well.\r\n\r\nnow, as I stated earlier.
    I don't need the symbol to spell out the exact title of the zine, and I am NOT
    trying to make it look like the command symbol. The guys who are running the thing
    like how it's going. Anyone, is there anything else that is glaringly wrong other
    than the legibility issues before I work this out into a more polished image?\r\n\r\n-
    Scott Sullivan\r\nwww.trifepdgm.com"
  created: '2008-11-10 17:02:17'
- author:
    name: rlynch
  body: "If it's not supposed to be legible as F4, what <cite>is</cite> it supposed
    to look like? It doesn't appear to have any link to music. Is it representative
    of something local?\r\n\r\nI think you need to explain where you're coming from
    with the style and the idea behind the name F4.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nRoss"
  created: '2008-11-10 17:14:45'
- author:
    name: scottsullivan
    picture: 115949
  body: "Okay well, the image is not supposed to look like anything specifically,
    there's no real deep concept here, and I have absolutely no idea why they're calling
    it F4, I think it might have something to do with the names of the four main contributing
    writers. This is really just an exercise in a letter-number combination that appeals
    specifically to a younger audience.\r\n\r\nStylistically, I'm going to try and
    place this in a somewhat similar retro-like category as say the work of [[http://blog.iso50.com/|Scott
    Hansen]].\r\n\r\n- Scott Sullivan\r\nwww.trifepdgm.com"
  created: '2008-11-10 17:44:20'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'Will this logo appear on the cover, and if so, will the characters "F4" appear
    next to it, and if so, in what font will they be? '
  created: '2008-11-10 18:19:02'
- author:
    name: scottsullivan
    picture: 115949
  body: "As of right now, the logo will be on the cover and if the characters F4 appear
    next to the symbol, which they probably will, they will most likely be in Museo
    or Museo Sans.\r\n\r\n- Scott Sullivan\r\nwww.trifepdgm.com"
  created: '2008-11-10 18:23:43'
- author:
    name: bemerx25
    picture: 112539
  body: 'A is the better of the latest bunch but perhaps, to make it even more apparent,
    remove the crossbar connecting the 4 back into the F. I think your 4 would then
    become more noticeable. Or perhaps think about changing the color values so the
    F and 4 would remain black while the connecting "pieces" would be a dark gray.
    Bonus if you can get the color values to blend nicely into each other.  Just some
    thoughts to help the F and 4 stand out a bit more while maintaining your "connected"
    concept. '
  created: '2008-11-10 19:41:59'
- author:
    name: pica pusher
    picture: 111287
  body: "If it's a music zine, that's not coming across. If it needs to say \"F4,\"
    that isn't coming across. I definitely picked up on the Apple \"Command\" symbol
    that some others have mentioned, but that could be because I work at a Mac all
    day.\r\n\r\nThe other meaning I could derive from the sketches, the one I think
    you were going for, is a sort of futuristic (not futurist), slick, electronic
    attitude. If that is your aim I think you're on the right track, and you could
    intensify that message by drawing the next round of sketches on an even more restrictive
    grid.\r\n\r\nI think you could try looking deeper into the meaning you're trying
    to convey, too. Musically speaking, \"F4\" is the note F just above middle C,
    although why that has significance to the zine is beyond me."
  created: '2008-11-10 20:16:01'
- author:
    name: bemerx25
    picture: 112539
  body: But "command" F-4 could also be an homage to screen capturing - or in this
    instance, "capturing" the musical scene.
  created: '2008-11-10 20:25:15'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "bemerx - but ... it's not. its been stated that there's no deep concept behind
    it.\r\n\r\nscott - what other concepts have you got? it seems pretty clear that
    the consensus is the current version isn't really working on many/any levels.\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic Design Melbourne</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.bicyclefilmfestival.com.au\">Bicycle
    Film Festival</a>\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-10 22:14:53'
- author:
    name: scottsullivan
    picture: 115949
  body: "Paul, I like where this is going. There is no consensus that this is not
    working, I stated before that the people who are running the exquisitely named
    zine like the look of this. The sketches are working on the level of it looking
    cool. A trendy music zine doesn't need a treble clef or some deep meaning that's
    going to be largely lost on anyone but designers. As you said before, this being
    for a younger audience doesn't even need to be legible. sketches coming soon.\r\n\r\n-
    Scott Sullivan\r\nwww.trifepdgm.com"
  created: '2008-11-10 22:45:58'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "wasn't your original question about legibility?\r\n\r\nso it doesn't need
    to be legible? cool then what do you want us to give feedback on?\r\n<br />\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic
    Design Melbourne</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.bicyclefilmfestival.com.au\">Bicycle
    Film Festival</a>\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-10 22:51:00'
- author:
    name: scottsullivan
    picture: 115949
  body: "Partially about legibility..  but since then I've been trying to get feedback
    on three sketches in the post above?\r\nBottom right loop on or off?\r\nif off,
    which seems better balanced? \r\nthe full vertical bottom stroke of the 4 or the
    shortened stroke?\r\nis it cool?\r\n\r\nThis forum isn't only about legibility.\r\n\r\n-
    Scott Sullivan\r\nwww.trifepdgm.com"
  created: '2008-11-10 22:58:07'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "here we go then.\r\n\r\noff.\r\nas a stand alone piece A is more balanced.\r\n\r\nI
    don't think it's cool.\r\n\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul
    Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic Design Melbourne</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.bicyclefilmfestival.com.au\">Bicycle Film Festival</a>\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-10 23:11:12'
- author:
    name: jakes
    picture: 116060
  body: no purpose of having the F4 in it...since you can't read it anyway. Just create
    a cool symbol without it...it's much easier that way.
  created: '2008-11-10 23:21:46'
- author:
    name: scottsullivan
    picture: 115949
  body: "thanks paul haha\r\n\r\n- Scott Sullivan\r\nwww.trifepdgm.com"
  created: '2008-11-10 23:24:19'
- author:
    name: scottsullivan
    picture: 115949
  body: "Jakes! thanks for the suggestion, but I still have to keep the F and the
    4 cause it's a requirement from the client and even though it's not immiediately
    recognizable, you do see the form when you know the name of the zine.\r\n\r\n-
    Scott Sullivan\r\nwww.trifepdgm.com"
  created: '2008-11-10 23:31:55'
- author:
    name: Maxx-W
    picture: 116152
  body: Maybe it is a young thing. I immediately saw 'F4'
  created: '2008-11-10 23:32:01'
- author:
    name: cabbage
    picture: 112029
  body: "So if we're moving past the legible/not-legible debate... There's nothing
    wrong with it only abstractly representing an F4 - however in that case I would
    start to consider the over all symmetry and consideration of every single detail
    in the mark. (and let me try to cut off any misunderstanding by saying that these
    are not intended as rhetorical or patronizing questions - I'm honestly asking...)\r\n\r\nLooking
    at the last A,B,C samples; A and B have top-right and bottom-left loops that are
    almost the same, but they're not. On C the bottom-right loop doesn't match either
    of the two loops. Is this intentional? Do you intend to clean that up later?\r\n\r\nIn
    A the bottom-right-corner line pointing down doesn't quite reach as low as the
    bottom-left loop and the right-pointing line doesn't reach quite as far to the
    right as the top-right loop. Is there a reason for that?\r\n\r\nIf this is truly
    an abstract shape, I'd consider making it highly-symmetric (top right/bottom left;
    top left/bottom right corners identical), then the only places that you  break
    that symmetry (the bar of the 'F' and the top of the '4') will seem much more
    intentional."
  created: '2008-11-11 00:19:34'
- author:
    name: Kirs10
  body: 'On your nov 9 posting, a is the strongest so far but I think it has one loop-de-loop
    too many. Try versions taking away the top right loop and then the bottom left
    loop. Determine which one reads better. Or maybe it just doesn''t need to be entirely
    enclosed. '
  created: '2008-11-11 00:38:43'
- author:
    name: istariskoda
    picture: 116195
  body: "Your initial post asks about legibility. I don't feel like it's instantly
    legible, and I am young (and somewhat trendy, if that's what you mean by hip).\r\n\r\nWhat
    throws me off is the sagging line at the top and the various sized loops. They
    just confuse me. I expect them to be like that for a purpose, and my eyes get
    lost trying to figure out what that is.\r\n\r\nI'm not with my mac right now,
    but I just whipped this up on Paint.NET on my work compy.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/F4_4086.png]"
  created: '2008-11-11 03:16:22'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "and it's loads better.\r\n\r\nnice stuff istariskoda.\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic
    Design Melbourne</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.bicyclefilmfestival.com.au\">Bicycle
    Film Festival</a>\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-11 03:59:09'
- author:
    name: dogg
    picture: 110510
  body: "It seems like you could tinker more with a juxtaposition of pure letter forms.
    Maybe try flipping letters. Since it's only a two-character name, there's some
    leeway as far as legibility goes. A quick thought:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/f4_a_4407.gif]\r\n\r\nDOGG
    : : :"
  created: '2008-11-11 07:06:10'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "Both visual suggestions in the last two posts are much much better than the
    original. They are. More balanced less stressed and quite nice. It proves the
    old rule of making it better by simplifying it.\r\n\r\nSince it's trendy music
    maybe strokes should also have weight variation to make them more melody or music
    like... Only my opinion.\r\n\r\nAnd in the top left of istariskoda's preposition
    where the loop is missing in this exact design there could be a geometric font
    writing of \"F4\". Maybe in Eurostille. It would fit there perfectly and complement
    the symbol.\r\n___________\r\n<em>Robert Koritnik</em>"
  created: '2008-11-11 09:20:49'
- author:
    name: genericboy
    picture: 113715
  body: "Hi guys,\r\n\r\nBeen following this thread for a little while - I really
    love these crit threads, although I rarely have much to add!\r\n\r\nI've just
    been looking at the mark (both the originals and the later suggestions) and my
    personal feeling is that it would be considerably improved by losing the outer
    'flourishes' altogether. I did a little mockup (which incidentally I hate doing
    - feels wrong changing somebody else's work) based on the suggestion istariskoda
    put up a few posts ago:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/f4_5144.jpg]\r\n\r\nFor
    one thing, I think this improves the legibility of the mark a fair amount. It
    also leaves it much more compact, which I always think is helpful for a logo -
    obviously it will mainly be used on the cover, but you never know what other contexts
    it'll end up being used in! I also think paring it down like this might be helpful
    from a 'hip, cool' point of view (saying that makes me feel much older than I
    am) - I think it feels a bit fresher with straight edges and overtones of emoticons/faux-asian
    characters.\r\n\r\nFinally, it'll stop everyone referencing the apple command
    key! Which can only be a good thing :)\r\n\r\nAnyway, it's just an idea. For the
    record, I really like the idea, and think you're onto something - but it's not
    there yet. I sort of think the idea itself is the square with the two protrusions
    - the flourishes are simply decoration.\r\n\r\nGood work with this one, can't
    wait to see how it turns out. Keep us informed!\r\n\r\nAndi\r\n\r\n[<a href='http://www.semibad.com'>semibad</a>]"
  created: '2008-11-11 16:53:23'
- author:
    name: rlynch
  body: "Sorry, just doodling\u2026\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/F4_6522.png]\r\n\r\nRoss"
  created: '2008-11-11 18:14:15'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "Yes generic. I wonder how do you guys feel if you get a straight out suggestion
    in visual form that's better than yours by a margin... What do you do with it?
    Do you stay stubborn and go with your own or maybe try and improve other guy's
    idea if it can be improved at all...? What would you actually do?\r\n\r\nI think
    Andii (a.k.a. genericboy) produced something that can win majority vote on this
    logo. But the question is what will scott do with it?\r\n___________\r\n<em>Robert
    Koritnik</em>"
  created: '2008-11-11 19:52:19'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "The problem I have with a lot of these is that the 'F' could just as easily
    be an 'E'.\r\n\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2008-11-11 20:59:18'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "people have put forward some great feedback, comments and suggestions.\r\n\r\nnow
    ... where's scott got to?\r\n\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul
    Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic Design Melbourne</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.bicyclefilmfestival.com.au\">Bicycle Film Festival</a>\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-11 22:00:03'
- author:
    name: scottsullivan
    picture: 115949
  body: "wow! first off I'd really like to thank everyone who's posted here I really
    appreciate it.\r\n\r\nnow:\r\ncabbage: the loops being matching- no, not intentional,
    these are just little sketches I was working on and will be cleaned up later.
    \ 'pointing out' strokes not matching up on 11/9 A- those strokes are unedited
    Museo strokes and yes, in more refined versions, they'll be a bit more thought
    out in terms of alignment. symmetry- I agree, highly symmetric sounds like a good
    policy here.\r\n\r\nKristen Navin:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/one_3439.png]\r\n\r\nistariskoda:
    yeah those are just in some sketches that I threw together and will be fixed in
    the final. and thanks for the great painted sketch!  I really like the angle at
    the top of the stroke of the four there.\r\n\r\ndogg: thanks for the sketch, kinda
    scary tho.. pointy!\r\n\r\nRobert: eurostile.. hmm\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/two_5196.png]\r\n\r\nAndi:
    great sketch - you're right that does improve the legibility.\r\n\r\nRobert agian:
    See, I do not personally believe that Andi's sketch, as great as it is, is better
    for this specific project. Seeing that the music scene here isn't a european techno
    kind of thing, it just doesn't work for Ohio.\r\n\r\nround 3 sketches coming this
    evening\r\n\r\nthanks again\r\n- Scott Sullivan\r\nwww.trifepdgm.com"
  created: '2008-11-11 22:10:48'
- author:
    name: cslem1
  body: "andi-\r\n\r\nI like that logo. I mean with just coming up with it, it's pretty
    good. It might not read right away as F4, but as soon as I get the relation once,
    I see it without any effort. This is great for the music scene. It's almost like
    an \"in\". \r\n\r\nscott-\r\nI've been reading all the threads, and your logo
    doesn't seem to be progressing too much in the legibility factor. I really think
    it has to be those squares on the outsides of the letter forms. They require too
    much focus, drawing your eye away from already difficult to see letter forms.
    It might just be because they don't serve much of a visual purpose. They don't
    seem to be at that electronica era yet...instead they are sort of mimicking the
    illuminated manuscripts...vaguely.\r\n\r\n\r\ncourtney"
  created: '2008-11-11 22:43:53'
- author:
    name: istariskoda
    picture: 116195
  body: "Was reading over the thread again, and I had another thought. I feel it's
    a shame that the logo doesn't suggest music. What do you think about this?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/F4_4086_6064.png]"
  created: '2008-11-11 23:09:09'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "I think my favorite of the tossed up sketches is Dogg's. Quite simple and
    nice.\r\n\r\npenn"
  created: '2008-11-11 23:53:28'
- author:
    name: gerald
  body: "i really like the top left on this one:\r\n\r\n[[http://typophile.com/files/one_3439.png]]\r\n\r\nalso,
    i am young and obsessed with music so my opinion matters :)\r\n\r\ni would like
    to see this top left version with a longer stem on the top of the \"F\" flowing
    out toward the left (possibly the same size as the 4?)\r\n\r\ni really don't like
    the ones that look like the apple command symbol"
  created: '2008-11-11 23:57:34'
- author:
    name: gerald
  body: "dogg's looks too much like the weezer logo in my opinion\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Weezer_logo_3655.jpg]"
  created: '2008-11-11 23:59:24'
- author:
    name: scottsullivan
    picture: 115949
  body: "legible:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/legible_3714.png]\r\n\r\ntrendy:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/trendy_5836.png]\r\n\r\ngerald?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/eh_6133.png]\r\n\r\n-
    Scott Sullivan\r\nwww.trifepdgm.com"
  created: '2008-11-12 00:07:10'
- author:
    name: dogg
    picture: 110510
  body: "gerald:\r\n\r\nThen again, the Weezer logo is just a bite on the Van Halen
    logo\u2026\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/VanHalen1979_3640.jpg]\r\n\r\nDOGG
    : : :"
  created: '2008-11-12 02:26:53'
- author:
    name: genericboy
    picture: 113715
  body: "<em>Seeing that the music scene here isn\u2019t a european techno kind of
    thing, it just doesn\u2019t work for Ohio.</em>\r\n\r\nYeah, I can totally see
    this. I think this is part of the problem with trying to judge something as 'young
    and cool' - it really depends on the particular subculture. Because of my own
    location and particular musical background, when you talk about a music magazine
    aimed at an edgy local music scene, I automatically associate that with something
    a lot more urban and dance-based (with connections to a completely different graphic
    style, influenced by graffiti culture, etc).\r\n\r\nMaybe it would be helpful
    for you to be a bit more specific about the type of music culture that this magazine
    will cover, and thus the audience it's aimed at?\r\n\r\nAs for the most recent
    batch of sketches - I don't personally think the 'track line' on the second works,
    or adds anything to the logo. The more I look at the third one, the more I like
    it! I didn't really get a good feeling from it at first, but it's definitely grown
    on me - I like the fact that it's become a continuous line with a single flourish
    halfway, rather than a kind of ongoing loop with projections all round. I do think
    that the outer diagonal line of the four should follow the same line all the way
    down - not suddenly having a vertical edge where it hits the crossbar. Does this
    make sense? I couldn't think of a clearer way to say it!\r\n\r\nJust a final quick
    question - are you still using a typeface first and then 'extending' it with vector
    shapes? Your OP seems to suggest this, and if so this is probably why some of
    the sketches are a little uneven. If this is the case, it might be worth working
    on this in a purely geometric way, to make sure that line is a bit more even like
    this - a lot of the time, a geometric logo like this doesn't 'click' until it's
    <em>really</em> even.\r\n\r\nSorry about the essay!\r\n\r\nAndi\r\n\r\n[<a href='http://www.semibad.com'>semibad</a>]"
  created: '2008-11-12 09:27:29'
- author:
    name: davegk
    picture: 112374
  body: "Following the line of thought from istariskoda, here's another graphic form
    combining F4 legibly with a musical connotation...\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/f4_5847.gif]\r\n\r\nDavid
    Goldklang\r\nGraphic Designer/Musician\r\nhttp://www.davegk.com\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-12 22:00:23'
- author:
    name: davegk
    picture: 112374
  body: "or...if you want subtle legibility and bold design, something like this (F4
    is apparent in the negative space)...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/f4-2_6593.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\nDavid
    Goldklang\r\nGraphic Designer/Musician\r\nhttp://www.davegk.com\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-12 22:20:26'
- author:
    name: davegk
    picture: 112374
  body: "variations...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/f4-3_6533.jpg]\r\n\r\nDavid
    Goldklang\r\nGraphic Designer/Musician\r\nhttp://www.davegk.com\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-12 22:33:33'
- author:
    name: gerald
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/f4-2_6593_4472.gif]\r\n\r\nlove this
    one! ^^\r\n\r\ni think that works amazingly well for a bold, counter-culture/indie
    type music mag as well.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-12 23:34:41'
- author:
    name: pandaking
  body: "Just saw this and did a few alterations in paint. By just deleting stuff
    I got these:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/v1_3415.PNG][img:sites/default/files/old-images/v2_5087.PNG]\r\n\r\nI
    now see rlynch had this idea. I will post them all the same."
  created: '2008-11-13 00:59:47'
- author:
    name: cslem1
  body: "davegk-\r\n\r\nCool design, but the swastika relation is unfortunately a
    little too easily connected. It's the very first thing I thought of even before
    I saw the F4. And I knew it was suppose to say F4.\r\n\r\ncourtney"
  created: '2008-11-13 01:52:16'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "Swastikas aren't all bad. It's actually an ancient Indian symbol of good
    fortune, hence the Nazis' use of it :) Not that I made any connection to a swastika
    when I saw it anyway. The concept is nice, but execution could definitely be improved.
    Currently it's too blocky and oddly rotated.\r\n\r\nSo far I haven't seen Scott
    experimenting with any other concepts at all. The current concept you're working
    on (Scott) doesn't resemble any of the retro style or figure interplay seen in
    Scott Hansen's work (as you cited as inspiration in a previous post). I believe
    someone above said something to the effect of your needing to go back to the basic
    figures of the \"F\" & \"4\". I second that comment. It seems like you're just
    trying a little too hard to connect the shapes here. <strong>To me</strong> continuing
    to toy around with your current concept is similar to rearranging the deck chairs
    on the titanic.\r\n\r\n\r\npenn"
  created: '2008-11-13 04:20:36'
- author:
    name: all about seb
    picture: 110631
  body: "<em>To me continuing to toy around with your current concept is similar to
    rearranging the deck chairs on the titanic.</em>\r\nSo well put, this made my
    day. Thanks Penn."
  created: '2008-11-13 07:11:04'
- author:
    name: Curiousity
    picture: 113826
  body: "Nice thread, got a few cents to throw in...\r\n\r\nScott,\r\nIn regards to
    your newest set of sketches, I can see that you want to incorporate the character
    of your base typeface (be it museo, eurostile, whatevs) into the end logo. I think
    this is a good idea, but one that'll need pretty serious formal consideration
    for it to work/pop. Too much character overwhelms the form.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/f4_5640.png]\r\n\r\n<cite>not
    cool</cite>\r\n\r\n\r\nOf the throw downs, I prefer istariskoda's:\r\n\r\n [img:sites/default/files/old-images/F4_4086_6064_6637.png]\r\n\r\n...because
    I'm a sucker for content and like he said <cite>\"it\u2019s a shame that the logo
    doesn\u2019t suggest music.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nYou said  <cite>\"A trendy music zine
    doesn\u2019t need a treble clef or some deep meaning that\u2019s going to be largely
    lost on anyone but designers ... this being for a younger audience doesn\u2019t
    even need to be legible.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nI do not agree. Everything we do as designers
    is communication, and I'm not just harping about legibility here. If you have
    the opportunity to build a mark firmly rooted in the ideals/culture/mission of
    the organization, do it! It will only make the logo better, more communicative.
    Which, in turn promotes audience participation with the piece, which in turn can
    promote brand loyalty. As you're treating the audience like they are intelligent
    consumers. Which is where <cite>\"this being for a younger audience doesn't even
    need to be legible\"</cite> comes in. On one level, I totally understand where
    you're coming from. Most of the stuff these days marketed towards young adults
    is all over the place formally\u2014shooting out, spiraling in, layered beyond
    recognition. (perhaps an appropriate reflection of the current younger generation's
    mindset/mental patterns) However...from an intellectual, socially responsible
    designing level, assuming that a younger audience doesn't deserve/want legibility
    is a very dangerous sentiment.\r\n\r\nWhoa! Sorry if that seems like a lecture...I
    know you're mostly looking for crits. I am 25(young and hip?)...and this stuff
    is in my thoughts right now.\r\n\r\nKeep going! You'll get there! Got any links
    with more info about f4?\r\n\r\n\u2013Rachel B\r\n\r\nPS who said it had to be
    a treble clef?  ugh!\r\nPSS let's see potential \"F4\" pairings with the next
    set...like you said it would be on the cover. (ie type treatment to go along with
    the mark)"
  created: '2008-11-13 08:23:29'
- author:
    name: Curiousity
    picture: 113826
  body: ' '
  created: '2008-11-13 08:25:08'
- author:
    name: gerald
  body: "i just want to STRONGLY emphasize this\r\n\r\nas a mid/late-20s male who
    loves indie/weird/counterculture/hip music, and has somewhere near 4,000 albums,
    i can safely say that i am probably the demographic of this logo/mag/zine/whatever.\r\n\r\nAND,
    if i ever saw some kind of mag/zine about hip music that had a logo that was even
    close to resembling a treble or bass clef or anything near it, i would not buy
    it. i wouldn't even read it. \r\n\r\nspeaking purely as a consumer here, and not
    a designer, those clefs are antiquated and only remind me of classical music a
    la beethoven or mozart or early 19th century jazz, &c.\r\n\r\njust wanted to throw
    that out there\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-13 09:03:19'
- author:
    name: genericboy
    picture: 113715
  body: "Just a thought on the ideas based on musical notation - although it's an
    easy connection to the idea of music in general, I'm not really sure that it works
    in the context. Musical notes to me suggest either a very general musical theme,
    or a subset more along the lines of classical music, sheet music, etc. Although
    it's an obvious shorthand for music in general, it's probably not <em>that</em>
    relevant for a zine dealing with reviews of a more edgy youth music scene, as
    it references music in a 'written' form rather than something a little more dynamic.
    It's also, without sounding too dismissive, a little bit of a lazy solution?\r\n\r\nNow
    that I say this, I've just noticed that since my last preview Gerald has said
    something along the same lines. I agree, there's a big difference between communicating
    'music' in general and appealing to a specific musical subculture.\r\n\r\n[<a
    href='http://www.semibad.com'>semibad</a>]"
  created: '2008-11-13 09:18:57'
- author:
    name: innovati
    picture: 114494
  body: "Wow, I'm fairly certain I'm not the demographic of this magazine either,
    I listen to a steady diet of Nine Inch Nails and <a href=\"http://remix.nin.com\">NIN
    Remixes</a>, but the only thing I've seen in this thread so far that would make
    me interested in picking up a magazine, is DaveGK's top left one in his post called
    <em>variations</em>.\r\n\r\nDaveGK, you are brilliant, this mark is so captivating
    I'd want to buy that magazine just so I had a copy of the logo to look at.  It's
    sturdy, it's square, it's got a perfect balance of positive/negative space.  It
    clearly communicates both <em>F</em> and <em>4</em>, and it could be reduced down
    to a factions of an inch and still be 100% legible.\r\n\r\nThese are the winners
    in my eyes, and I hope the reasons are obvious:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/f4-3_6533_5413.jpg]\r\n<em>(logos
    by DaveGK)</em>\r\n\r\nI look forward to seeing what you do with this logo."
  created: '2008-11-14 15:24:56'
- author:
    name: genericboy
    picture: 113715
  body: "Yeah, I've got to say that I really like the righthand version of that one.
    I don't think it works at all without the 45 degree rotation - having the '4'
    on its side makes it look too much like just an overwrought 'F', and having an
    arbitrary rotation makes it look kind of messy. But now that I look at it again,
    I could really see that knocked out in white over a full-bleed cover photo. Nice
    work!\r\n\r\n[<a href='http://www.semibad.com'>semibad</a>]"
  created: '2008-11-14 16:42:44'
- author:
    name: wormeater
  body: just had a glance, i agree. the top right one is working best. plenty to work
    with here now scott!
  created: '2008-11-14 17:32:30'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "<cite>These are the winners in my eyes, and I hope the reasons are obvious:\r\n\r\n(logos
    by DaveGK)\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nThese remind me of Enron.\r\n\r\n\r\npenn"
  created: '2008-11-14 21:32:21'
- author:
    name: David Ford
    picture: 115355
  body: "Really interesting thread. \r\n\r\nI don't have a lot to add but if I was
    art directing this i'd say go out of your way to avoid any reference to music
    notes or keyboard commands. I also completely agree that legibility, for this
    project, shouldn't be a driving factor. \r\n\r\nThe earlier posts need a lot of
    work but they have a certain charm and difference and interest to them. The re-works
    that innovati posted above are misguided and totally off-target for this project
    and demographic.\r\n\r\nI would say you need to explore more but try and avoid
    the corporate cleverness posted above - it needs that dirty edge with an 'i don't
    give a f**k' attitude to succeed - not conformity, to be fair i think Scott knows
    where this should be driven from but before you ask questions like 'should the
    right hand loop be there' you need to have an amazing and different concept nailed....that
    ain't it."
  created: '2008-11-14 22:27:52'
- author:
    name: innovati
    picture: 114494
  body: "if you were going for the <em>laissez-faire</em> route, you could just slap
    an <em>f</em> and a <em>4</em> down in a word processor in Helvetica.  oh no wait,
    Arial.\r\n\r\nbingo. enjoy.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/laissezfaire_6030.gif]"
  created: '2008-11-15 00:19:58'
- author:
    name: gerald
  body: "<cite>The re-works that innovati posted above are misguided and totally off-target
    for this project and demographic.</cite>\r\n\r\ni would like to know your reasoning
    for this, because i would personally love to see this or a similar logo on my
    music magazines. "
  created: '2008-11-15 00:34:07'
- author:
    name: Curiousity
    picture: 113826
  body: "hmm\r\n\r\nI feel dumb. I never saw that rework I posted as music notes...but,
    rather,\r\nreferencing a cassette tape. I agree with the \"no music note\" sentiment...\r\nthat
    is if I can still save face in this conversation.\r\n\r\nrachel"
  created: '2008-11-17 17:08:06'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "great discussion.\r\n\r\nshame scott didn't think so.\r\n\r\n<br />\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic
    Design Melbourne</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.bicyclefilmfestival.com.au\">Bicycle
    Film Festival</a>\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-17 22:45:46'
- author:
    name: David Ford
    picture: 115355
  body: "<cite>i would like to know your reasoning for this, because i would personally
    love to see this or a similar logo on my music magazines.</cite>\r\n\r\nReading
    back, I think I sound a bit rude. What I mean is that those iterations have a
    very corporate feel to them - they are fantastic and interesting solutions for
    oil companies and IT Solutions Companies but they miss the mark with the target
    market. I just think the solution, in this instance, needs to be more progressive
    - this job gives the freedom to push more boundaries than a typical identity project.\r\n\r\nRatbaggy
    - I totally agree...why post in the first place?"
  created: '2008-11-18 00:29:16'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "Scott hasn't replied in about a week already. This logo became more like
    a community project now or something?\r\n\r\nScott?\r\n___________\r\n<em>Robert
    Koritnik</em>"
  created: '2008-11-18 09:22:20'
- author:
    name: genericboy
    picture: 113715
  body: "Hi David,\r\n\r\nThat was my initial reaction, which is why I didn't say
    anything until after innovati reposted them. But to be honest, I think a good
    part of that is the dark blue gradient behind the right-hand one - which does
    give it a bit of a 'solutions' type vibe. Take that away though, and knock it
    out in white on a decent full-bleed photo cover, and I think it would look anything
    but. That said, I haven't mocked that up or anything - so it might be just in
    my head. It might (as with everything in this post) also depend on the context
    of your musical background too.\r\n\r\nAndi\r\n\r\n[<a href='http://www.semibad.com'>semibad</a>]"
  created: '2008-11-18 09:27:50'
date: '2008-11-08 20:11:02'
node_type: forum
title: young hip logo

---
