---
author:
  name: guiyong
  picture: 115599
body: "I have heard many men speak of a fountain from which the free fonts come?\r\nI
  search for many time the Optimos and try also the FontShopping but no such luck
  with NO big bucks or Visa card. \r\n\r\nI thank many people in advance for these
  helpful comments.\r\n\r\nYours sincerily,\r\nGui Yong"
comments:
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: The fountain is in a secret cave near the peak of the highest mountain in
    Patagonia. Only the pure of heart may enter. Oh, and you have to have the secret
    word.
  created: '2008-11-11 02:22:52'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: The fountain isn't here nor can it bound found by starting here. But there
    are some foundries who have some fonts with free (or non-commercial) licenses
    and those are included in the <a href="http://typophile.com/node/44453?">FAQ Free
    Fonts</a> in the Typowiki.
  created: '2008-11-11 02:39:56'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: http://maps.google.com/maps?ie=UTF-8&oe=UTF-8&sourceid=navclient&gfns=1&q=fountain%20of%20free%20fonts&um=1&sa=N&tab=wl
  created: '2008-11-11 03:04:44'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: It is directly adjacent to the fountain of youth.
  created: '2008-11-11 03:09:00'
- author:
    name: lunde
    picture: 111902
  body: "I am pretty sure that I saw it in the vicinity of Lost Springs, Wyoming...\r\n\r\n[[http://lundestudio.com/photos/lost-springs-06072006-1]]\r\n\r\nDr.
    Ken Lunde\r\nSenior Computer Scientist, CJKV Type Development\r\nAdobe Systems
    Incorporated\r\nlunde@adobe.com"
  created: '2008-11-11 04:29:54'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: <a href="http://www.fountain.nu/catalogue/probono.asp">Free fonts from the
    Fountain</a>
  created: '2008-11-11 09:29:19'
- author:
    name: robbiefa
    picture: 113487
  body: "Have you tried looking in your shoe? When I can't find stuff I always try
    my shoes\u2026"
  created: '2008-11-11 09:30:36'
- author:
    name: J Weltin
    picture: 111273
  body: Man, what shoe size are you living in?
  created: '2008-11-11 09:59:25'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Gui, don\u2019t let these snots hold out on you. You can get awesome free
    fonts at <a href=\"http://tinyurl.com/yowplg\">2002 Honest Fonts</a>."
  created: '2008-11-11 16:26:34'
- author:
    name: robbiefa
    picture: 113487
  body: Damn it James, why did you give away our Fountian of free fonts!! Atleast
    he'll never find our <em>pot of golden free fonts</em> at the end of the Dafont
    rainbow!
  created: '2008-11-11 17:53:59'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "lol @ <cite>Have you tried looking in your shoe? When I can\u2019t find stuff
    I always try my shoes\u2026</cite>"
  created: '2008-11-11 20:12:23'
- author:
    name: guiyong
    picture: 115599
  body: Greetings to many people for your plentiful comments. But unfortunatly I still
    search for the fountain from which many free font such as the Optimo Pharma and
    please all of the works of Erik Spiekermann do flow, because he is a stingy man....
  created: '2008-11-12 02:27:29'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Next time there's a troll-feeding session can someone IM me? ;-)\r\n\r\nThx,
    Si"
  created: '2008-11-12 06:59:28'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: arrghh!!!!
  created: '2008-11-12 10:57:26'
- author:
    name: 4thfebruary
    picture: 114255
  body: original free fonts also here http://www.fontomas.ru/dload.htm
  created: '2008-11-12 14:32:37'
- author:
    name: Elias
  body: "<em>because he is a stingy man</em>\r\n\r\nThis is hillarious. But maybe
    I just don't get it. Guiyong, you are joking, right?"
  created: '2008-11-12 18:19:11'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: I've often wondered how a person looking for a good fishing spot manages to
    miss all the docks around nearly every corner of the globe only to end up neck-deep
    and gushing blood in an out-of-the-way shark tank.
  created: '2008-11-12 20:18:54'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Sergiy you should add that to the FAQ Free page. \r\n"
  created: '2008-11-12 21:15:33'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: I think there's a font site called tubgirl or something with a fountain of
    something. Maybe fonts.
  created: '2008-11-13 06:19:51'
- author:
    name: h johnston
  body: "All the fonts you will ever need can be found [[http://www.somethingawful.com/fakesa/fontsite/
    | here]]\r\n\r\nConfusious says \"you get what you pay for\""
  created: '2008-11-13 22:00:55'
- author:
    name: pica pusher
    picture: 111287
  body: "<cite>I think there\u2019s a font site called tubgirl or something with a
    fountain of something. Maybe fonts.</cite>\r\n\r\nCome now, Ray, that's just mean."
  created: '2008-11-13 23:28:34'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: "No kidding - incredibly mean thing to post, Ray.\r\n\r\n\r\nI don't get it."
  created: '2008-11-14 02:31:16'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Yes. I don't think Ray's reference to Tub Girl is mean but I think most people
    would agree it is in rather poor taste. Not merely \"poor\" taste but \"rather
    poor\" taste, actually.\r\n\r\nRay, please post an apology.\r\n\r\nThank you.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2008-11-14 15:53:04'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: oh hai. free fnots?/ :D
  created: '2008-11-14 15:56:33'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "@Sergiy: Nice work on Amoebia\u2026 Are you in touch with Jens?\r\nYour \"Liberator\"
    also looks like a nice work. Why did you choose the name \"Liberator\"? Is this
    something historically related to England?"
  created: '2008-11-14 22:35:20'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: google typeoasis, typeart .
  created: '2008-11-15 00:03:43'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Sorry, I don\u2019t get the dis with the tubgirl thing."
  created: '2008-11-15 01:17:46'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: Hi all. I am sorry about that. Bad move.
  created: '2008-11-15 02:21:06'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: It went over my head anyway. :op
  created: '2008-11-15 02:28:34'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: This thread is pure win.
  created: '2008-11-15 03:58:10'
- author:
    name: WType
    picture: 116173
  body: "H, SuperUltraFabulous:\r\n\r\nGo to Google search for \"tub girl\" under
    image- make sure your \"moderation sateserach\" is off, and you shall find it...It
    has got nothing to do with font though...\r\n\r\nBTW- don't look at it if you
    haven't had your dinner.\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-15 06:44:36'
- author:
    name: WType
    picture: 116173
  body: Sory, Typo- Moderate SafeSearch
  created: '2008-11-15 07:02:58'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: "OK, that was THE most disgusting thing I've ever seen in my life. Allow me
    then to make a minor change to weng's above warning:\r\n\r\nBTW - don't look at
    it EVER, before dinner, after dinner, pre-snack, during 4 o'clock tea. Trust me
    - even the most curious people will come back and say \"I wish I hadn't been so
    curious.\"\r\n\r\nRay I am concerned over how you knew about this in the first
    place. Wait a minute ... now I know about it too. Oh man, what a crappy day this
    has been. Literally."
  created: '2008-11-15 14:41:01'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "ohhhhh.... ewwww. \r\n\r\nOkay, I won\u2019t look at what ever that is."
  created: '2008-11-15 17:16:11'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Being 38 and a foreigner I often have to consult http://www.urbandictionary.com/
    to understand what the "youths" are talking about. Definitely "safer" than google
    image search with the filters turned off. '
  created: '2008-11-16 04:11:09'
- author:
    name: WType
    picture: 116173
  body: "It is indeed the most disgusting thing I have ever came across- I didn't
    know what Typodermic was talking about and so many reacted, so I decided to Googled
    it... I for one regret like anything after seeing that piece... (at the same time,
    thank God for Google- nothing is impossible...) \r\n \r\nCuriosity does kill the
    cat... That's the problem with visuals. Once they get into your mind it stays
    forever, and make such a lasting impression that no clever software on earth can
    thrash it...\r\n\r\nAs the old saying goes, \"The eye is the light of the body.
    If your eye is good, your whole body would be full of light.\"\r\n\r\nIt's wise
    to guard what you see... \r\n\r\nAs Graphic Designer, I am sometime thrilled by
    the fact that I am being entrusted with the giftedness of handling one of the
    most powerful thing on earth- the VISUALS- it can either \"break\" or \"build\"-
    just look at all the propaganda posters during the WWII, or the woodblocks of
    communist China during the cold war - those are great designs to be admired, at
    the same time it brings chill down my spine when I think of how many millions
    of young people have lost their lives as the result of these posters...\r\n\r\nIn
    one of the interviews, Bill Gates confessed that he discouraged his sons from
    playing too much computer games for he sees the damages it can bring to them...
    Even the guy realised he have created a moster that can be untamable..."
  created: '2008-11-16 15:11:43'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: 'I agree with you, weng: because I just had to know what the deal was, I now
    feel as though a small portion of my mind has been permanently disabled, requiring
    me to quarantine it forever by covering it with a bunch of those biohazard-logo
    stickers. Isn''t there some kind of pharmaceutical assistance to help curb one''s
    curiousity? Because if there is and you have some, please - TAKE IT NOW before
    anyone else gets hurt.'
  created: '2008-11-16 15:47:36'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Best advertising tagline there is: \"DON'T LOOK\". Sure to get tons of hits.\r\nHuman
    nature, or what?\r\n\r\nWhat was that about Spiekermann -- you're miffed because
    you cannot find his fonts for free? Perhaps he doesn't <em>want</em> them to be
    free. He <em>has</em> the last word to say about that, you know.\r\n\r\nTalking
    about human nature, I decided to check the spelling of his name. \"Spiekerman\"
    gets 84,100 google points, while \"Spiekermann\" only gets 70,000. Funny thing
    is, even [[http://www.computerboek.nl/boek/9780201703399/stop_stealing_sheep_find_out_how_type_works_second_edition_erik_spiekerman|book
    stores]] get it wrong. If you zoom in on the book cover you see it's spelled right
    there."
  created: '2008-11-16 23:44:26'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "You\u2019d be surprised how many people get my first name wrong a well. I
    suppose graphic designers don\u2019t look very closely. Nor do type designers.\r\nSeems
    that most people do not read what\u2019s there but what they presume to be there.
    Which, in fact, is how we manage to read large amounts of text in the first place.
    Just doesn\u2019t work for proper names."
  created: '2008-12-02 23:31:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: However, I suspect that a significant proportion of those who got it wrong
    read a mis-spelling correctly.
  created: '2008-12-02 23:54:44'
- author:
    name: guiyong
    picture: 115599
  body: "But Spiekermann you are proud owner of these more than 100,000 \u2018cool
    fonts\u2019 and you will not make sharing or swaps with any of them :( \r\n\r\n(except
    this FF Dingbests? there are not even ABCs in this??)\r\n\r\nYou are a very unkind
    mann! Erik you must learn many lessons from this man Jos Buivenga, owner of unfortunatly
    only 9 \u2018cool fonts\u2019 but he will offer all of them for swappings and
    sharings at this festive season of givings. If you do not show thought for these
    people not lucky to have 100,000 \u2018cool fonts\u2019 you will find no fullfilments
    and happiness.\r\n\r\nMerry christmas greetings and hope,\r\nGui Yong\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-08 17:48:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Erik doesn't own those fonts.\r\nHe has licensed them from hundreds of starving
    type designers such as myself.\r\nIf he gave those fonts away for free, I would
    have no money to buy medicine for my sick children, and Tiny Tim would die.\r\nGod
    Bless you, Herr Spiekermann!"
  created: '2008-12-08 20:28:32'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: Guiyong - are you serious? geez, what is it with people expecting everything
    for free?
  created: '2008-12-09 05:14:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Guiyong - it may surprise you to learn that some people want to earn money
    from what they do. It's called working for a living. You've come to the wrong
    place with your stupidity. Now shut up and go away.\r\n\r\nWhy do you need 100,000
    \u2018cool fonts\u2019 anyway - that's just greedy.\r\n\r\n\r\nNick Cooke"
  created: '2008-12-09 11:29:56'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: There are not 100,000 cool fonts anyway. I'm sure that the world has over
    100,000 fonts. I know that the world has cool fonts. But 100,000 cool fonts? I
    think not.
  created: '2008-12-09 11:37:17'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: A good designer doesn't need 100,000 fonts! I have to get by with a mere 5,000
    -- and even then, I don't use all of them every day.
  created: '2008-12-09 13:15:38'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Wow, I can't imagine how you can get by with only 5000 fonts O_O
  created: '2008-12-09 13:54:56'
- author:
    name: guiyong
    picture: 115599
  body: "But why does Erik need this 100,000 fonts? He is Deutsch Design Meister right?\r\n\r\nUnfortunatly
    for my plentiful works I make \u2018variety styles\u2019 and for this I need numerous
    fonts."
  created: '2008-12-09 13:59:56'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: (My god, what is this...)
  created: '2008-12-09 14:12:20'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Just keep feeding the troll, guys. I\u2019m sure he needs the snacks."
  created: '2008-12-09 15:29:04'
- author:
    name: guiyong
    picture: 115599
  body: "Do not insult me Mr. James Bucket.\r\n\r\nSincerest regards,\r\nGui Yong"
  created: '2008-12-10 13:36:45'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Mr. Bucket! Haha.\r\n\r\nSo cheesy, that it's great. :X"
  created: '2008-12-10 14:41:46'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: quiyong is Keeping Up Appearances.
  created: '2008-12-10 15:01:49'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: The great Borat of the East has spoken.
  created: '2008-12-10 15:27:30'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Hey, leave the ol' Gui have a little relax. He's just heavy-trolling and
    you're feeding him like a domestic fat cat\u2026 :LOL:\r\n\r\nP.S. I don't know
    what's Tiny Tim but your comment is great, Nick! :=)"
  created: '2008-12-10 16:32:45'
- author:
    name: guiyong
    picture: 115599
  body: Please lady and gentlemans make many respect for Mr. Jos. We salute you kind
    man of givings and much respect for your fight against the evil Spiekermann.
  created: '2008-12-10 17:58:59'
- author:
    name: smongey
  body: "I think by people telling everybody to stop \u2018Feeding the troll\u2019
    is doing precisely that!\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s obviously a joke.\r\nLearn to lighten
    up."
  created: '2008-12-10 18:33:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tiny_Tim_(A_Christmas_Carol)\r\n\r\nNot to be
    confused with:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=skU-jBFzXl0\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-10 19:25:37'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Ah, I always read \"A Christmas Carol\" translated in Italian, so I did not
    recall the characters' name\u2026\r\nA ghost of Christmas past is approaching
    to haunt Guiyong in his bed\u2026"
  created: '2008-12-10 21:07:30'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "@curioustype: <em>I agree with you, weng: because I just had to know what
    the deal was, I now feel as though a small portion of my mind has been permanently
    disabled, requiring me to quarantine it forever by covering it with a bunch of
    those biohazard-logo stickers. Isn\u2019t there some kind of pharmaceutical assistance
    to help curb one\u2019s curiousity? Because if there is and you have some, please
    - TAKE IT NOW before anyone else gets hurt.</em>\r\n\r\nOh deary me, you mind
    has been contaminated. How awful for you. You talk about it  as if you are the
    only person in the world whose mind has ever been contaminated by something unpleasant.
    \r\n\r\nDude, get over it. Try. Just try.\r\n\r\n@guiyong: \r\n\r\n<em>Do not
    insult me Mr. James Bucket.</em>\r\n\r\nGiven how many of us you have insulted,
    and your open contempt for our community and our industry, what James Puckett
    said about you was kind. And you just insulted James by calling him a derogatory
    name. Name-calling is an act small children put on to get attention, and oh boy
    does it work for you. It gets you the attention you crave. Congratulations!\r\n\r\n<em>...the
    evil Spiekermann.</em>\r\n\r\nDude, that's at least two separate ad hominem personal
    attacks you have made against Erik Spiekermann on this thread alone.\r\n\r\nPlease
    read the Posting Guidelines sticky post in the General Discussions area and note
    that Typophile's users are advised to Please refrain from making personal attacks
    on other users. On those grounds you have breached our code of civil conduct thoroughly.
    Future ad hominem personal attacks by you on Erik Spiekermann and other Typophile
    users will not be tolerated.\r\n\r\nAnd you know what ad hominem is, don't you?
    It's a logical fallacy. In other words your personal attacks are invalid arguments
    that amount to \r\nn o t h i n g.\r\n\r\nNothing. Zero, dude. They have no place
    here at Typophile.\r\n\r\n<strong>Just don't do it.</strong>\r\n\r\nYou know,
    I've been in jail. I just got out. What do you think of that, motherfacker?\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2008-12-10 21:21:08'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Oh, no\u2026 Here we go again\u2026"
  created: '2008-12-10 21:38:58'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Does this thread need a timeout?
  created: '2008-12-10 21:41:36'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "<cite>Oh, no\u2026 Here we go again\u2026</cite>\r\nThat's exactly what I
    was thinking.\r\n\r\n<cite>Does this thread need a timeout?</cite>\r\nNothing
    wrong with this thread if we stop troll-feeding.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-10 21:55:29'
- author:
    name: guiyong
    picture: 115599
  body: "I find it good to hear the voice of freedom from Mr. Jos once more. I salute
    this brave fight you are making against the many greedy men such as Spiekermann
    and his close allies Mr. Shinn.\r\n\r\nMs. Arboghast I must make apologies for
    my rude conducts towards Mr. Puckett however I found a necessity to make response
    to the suggestions Mr. Pucketts makes that I eat too much snacks and that I should
    not eat so much. I say to you Mr. Pucketts that I have beautiful \u2018curves\u2019
    figure.\r\n\r\nAlso there is claims that I make invalid arguments against Mr.
    Spiekermann. You will see that I have argued this \u2018evil\u2019 man is owner
    of more than 100,000 \u2018cool fonts\u2019 and you will not share them with any
    body. He also makes unkind joke with the \u2018FF Dingbests\u2019. Erik there
    is not even ABCs in this ?\r\n\r\nPeaceful greeting to the plentiful contributors,\r\nGui
    Yong\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-10 22:56:51'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "<cite>owner of more than (ridiculous number) \u2018cool fonts\u2019 and you
    will not share them with any body...</cite>\r\n\r\nOne more time.\r\n\r\nWhat
    makes you think fonts are free to be shared?\r\n\r\nYes, there *are* free fonts
    on the web. Most of them are crap, and that's why people like Erik Spiekermann
    (who is, by the way, a Prof.Dr. at the University of the Arts in Bremen) spend
    a lot of time and effort making beautiful fonts. That's a full time occupation
    for type designers, not that different from, say, a plumber that plumbs plumbing.
    Now these plumbers may have a lot of lead pipes at home, but surely you are not
    expecting them to \"share them with any body\"?\r\n\r\nBlessed are the individuals
    who <em>give away free quality fonts</em> for their generosity, but pay for quality
    fonts that are not free. Or download all the free fonts you want, the web is full
    of 'em."
  created: '2008-12-10 23:39:35'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: ok, sorry, but what's a troll? my netspeak is not so good...
  created: '2008-12-10 23:40:35'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "It is commonly assumed \"Troll\" comes from \"trawling\", as in \"trawling
    for fish\", and is the accepted Usenet lingo for people who try to gain attention
    and spark off hot-headed debates by posting impopular opinions.\r\n\r\nThey usually
    sit back for a while after their first posting, enjoying the general confusion
    and hubbub that follows. If the thread threatens to die down, they post again.\r\n\r\nPeople
    who react in earnest are \"feeding the troll\", although the same term can be
    used for those who \"edge him on\", e.g., by posting firm-tongue-in-cheek answers
    that usually are meant to provoke, and hopefully to induce the OP (Original Poster)
    into fits of rage and self-defense.\r\n\r\n(Read the entire thread for a live
    example.)"
  created: '2008-12-10 23:50:26'
- author:
    name: robbiefa
    picture: 113487
  body: "You mean Gui Young is just taking the piss? He doesn't want the fountain
    of free fonts?\r\n\r\nhaha!"
  created: '2008-12-11 00:45:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'Yeah, taking old guis for a ride. '
  created: '2008-12-11 02:31:14'
- author:
    name: guiyong
    picture: 115599
  body: "<cite>Erik Spiekermann (who is, by the way, a Prof.Dr. at bla bla bla)</cite>\r\n\r\nMr.
    Theunis de Jong can not appreciate these condescending tones from a man who makes
    gratuitous usings of of this \u2018[[http://www.jongware.com/images/jongware.gif|Abobe
    Photoshop Movie Prime Lens Flare Filters]]\u2019, oops.\r\n\r\nI will assure you
    Mr. Jongs I have had meeting with this Spiekermann and listened to his humorous
    lecturings. However after this fun times it was possible to see this hate inside
    in his eyes for Mr. Jos for example. He is cruel owner of not like you say <cite>ridiculous
    number</cite>; it is approximately 100,000 of the \u2018cool fonts\u2019(I find
    this information from long distance phone call directly to San Francisco).\r\n\r\nYou
    say to me: <cite>What makes you think fonts are free to be shared?</cite> I say
    to you think of this [[http://www.joinred.com|Product Red Campaigns]] in USA.
    They are giving \u2018free iPods\u2019 and American Express cards to children
    of Africa everyday?  iPods are not for free Mr. de Jongs.\r\n\r\nI also do not
    appreciate this comments you make again about my eatings. I make assurance to
    you Mr. de Jongs and your ally Mr. James that I do not have eating problems and
    that I posses sculpted figure, like Michelangelo. \r\n"
  created: '2008-12-11 17:34:19'
- author:
    name: smongey
  body: "Genius!!!\r\n\r\nhahahaha"
  created: '2008-12-11 17:39:54'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: when did typophile get the ability to expand to multiple pages??
  created: '2008-12-12 00:16:36'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "<cite> You mean Gui Young </cite>\r\nAs opposed to \"ancient GUIs\"\u2026\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GUI_(disambiguation)\r\n\r\nGui,
    you are right about the nefarious Herr Spiekermann (which in the past caused typographic
    abominium like [[http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/fontfont/ff_steel/|FF
    Steel *Italic*]] to happen), but I assure you Nick Shinn's heart is soft and sweet
    as his recent typeface Duffy Script, despite his sometimes raw words\u2026 :=)\r\n\r\nPlease
    forgive the troll in me\u2026 :=)"
  created: '2008-12-13 11:59:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: oops
  created: '2008-12-13 18:01:04'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Typophile had the ability for multiple pages from version 1.0 and then it
    broke. Looks like they fixed it.
  created: '2008-12-13 19:25:18'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "They broke the \"new\" markers, though. These still work with single page
    threads.\r\n\r\nOr perhaps I should not be usin' IE 6.0, but it has its endearing
    qualities, such as ...\r\n\r\n... lemme think ..."
  created: '2008-12-13 22:42:14'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>Or perhaps I should not be usin\u2019 IE 6.0, but it has its endearing
    qualities, such as ...</em>\r\n\r\nsecurity flaws? ;)\r\n\r\n> <em>Typophile had
    the ability for multiple pages from version 1.0 and then it broke. Looks like
    they fixed it.</em>\r\n\r\nI wish they had also fixed the fact that you get referred
    back to page one after submitting a post. If I remember correctly this was also
    the case before it was broken, and it's really annoying. :)"
  created: '2008-12-13 22:47:08'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: Theunis, it seems to be broken with all of my browsers as well, so it's not
    IE per se.
  created: '2008-12-14 00:44:04'
date: '2008-11-11 01:45:02'
title: Where will I find this "fountain of free fonts".

---
