---
author:
  name: Theunis de Jong
  picture: 114717
body: "The Dutch government contracted type designer Peter Verheul to design one coherent
  font style for all of its hundreds of sub-branches. The results, appropriately (yet
  unoriginally) called \"Rijksoverheid Serif\" and \"Rijksoverheid Sans\" (\"Govn't
  Serif, Sans\"), will be presented tomorrow. \r\n\r\nSome initial information can
  be found on the designer's website: http://www.studiodumbar.com/main.php\r\n\r\nNow,
  was it money well spent? The font samples look good -- but I'll have to await the
  next tax form before deciding \"I like it\"."
comments:
- author:
    name: NapoleJon
    picture: 113218
  body: Ha, he's my teacher. I remember him showing some sketches, but I can't find
    the samples on the dumbar website.
  created: '2008-11-13 00:05:04'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: There are dream jobs, and then there is designing the identity of the Dutch
    government. Congrats to Studio Dumbar and Peter Verheul!
  created: '2008-11-13 01:45:31'
- author:
    name: WType
    picture: 116173
  body: "Try www.farhill.nl -Peter Verheul's personal home page. \r\n\r\nyou'll see
    some samples there."
  created: '2008-11-13 01:46:01'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Went to his site...\r\n\r\n\"American't.\"  What the hell is that all about?\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-11-13 02:38:55'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I saw it on Peter's website yesterday. There was also an article in the Dutch
    newspaper NRC Handelsblad about it. It had a large high res abc image of the typefaces
    with it. The article itself was also set in the typefaces (normally typeset in
    Lexicon and Lexicon Headline). \r\n\r\nThe serif is reminiscent of Versa (which
    isn't a bad thing) and looks pretty neat in my opinion. It stood up perfectly
    to the newsprint (although NRC is a pretty high quality printed paper). The sans
    however, feels a bit awkward to me. I can't decide if I like it or not. It doesn't
    have as much character to it as the serif. The general style of the typefamily
    doesn't really shine though, so to speak. It looks slightly 'common'. But it's
    possible that that is because it has similar metrics / dimensions to default system
    fonts (Arial or something) so that existing documents don't shift too much?\r\n\r\nBut
    I'm quite sure that it will look excellent when it is applied in some typographic
    work."
  created: '2008-11-13 16:39:42'
- author:
    name: SanderB
    picture: 114771
  body: "I attended the introduction yesterday, Wim Crouwel had a wonderful speech
    about concise and consistent use and implementation with a typeface in a brand
    identity. Peter Verheul had a presentation of the design process of the typefaces
    Rijksoverheid Sans & Serif. \r\n\r\nThere is also a booklet published with the
    complete story, I have written about it at my weblog http://www.designworkplan.com/typography-fonts/rijksoverheid-sans-serif.htm "
  created: '2008-11-14 10:47:17'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: ">> <em>I attended the introduction yesterday</em>\r\n\r\nLucky man :P I wanted
    to attend it as well, but I couldn't arrange to go to. Busy at work with looming
    deadlines.\r\n\r\nAlso, I've studied the Sans a bit better, since there are more
    images around at the moment, and I'm beginning to like it. It has much more character
    than I initially thought."
  created: '2008-11-14 12:36:47'
- author:
    name: Grrrben
    picture: 112992
  body: "Enjoyed the meeting last night!\r\n\r\nDo you have any scan of the article
    Jelmar? I unfortunately can't find it on NRC's website. "
  created: '2008-11-14 14:35:56'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Gerben: I will scan it on monday.\r\n \r\nI don't have it here, it's at G2K
    (ja, je ouwe stagebedrijf, als ik het goed heb begrepen. Ik loop daar nu stage)
    :)"
  created: '2008-11-14 15:02:22'
- author:
    name: WType
    picture: 116173
  body: "Luck guy! we don't live in Dutch and it's a long way to get there from this
    part of the world. \r\n\r\nIs the book available for sale? Any idea how I can
    buy one? (I know SanderB offers a copy to the winner who comments in his blog,
    which I don't think I would be able to win even if I do comment...)\r\n\r\nAny
    English translation in the book? Don't read Dutch..."
  created: '2008-11-16 10:31:58'
- author:
    name: Grrrben
    picture: 112992
  body: I guess you could get a copy <a href="http://www.nijhoflee.nl">here</a> or
    straight from the <a href="http://www.uitgeverijdebuitenkant.nl">publisher</a>.
    The book is mainly Dutch, though some bits and pieces are translated into a few
    other languages in order to show the character set in use.
  created: '2008-11-16 12:53:58'
- author:
    name: WType
    picture: 116173
  body: "Thanks- I clicked on your links for some strange reasons they don't work...any
    idea why?\r\n\r\nI suppose it doesn't matter if it's in Dutch... I also bought
    some Fontshop magazines entirely in Dutch, but still enjoy \"reading\" it though
    don't understand a word. :p"
  created: '2008-11-16 14:30:41'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "(Moderator's maessage)\r\nThe a href tages were not typed in properly. I
    went into his post, and fixed that. Now the links work."
  created: '2008-11-16 15:54:59'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "[[http://www.uitgeverijdebuitenkant.nl/grafisch_ontwerpen/#167|Here is a
    link]] to the publisher with the book (on top).\r\n\r\nAlthough it seems Peter
    Verheul has a [[http://www.farhill.nl/images/01_typefaces/rijksoverheid/OmslagLetterrijk01.jpg|different
    cover]] on his website?"
  created: '2008-11-16 16:00:11'
- author:
    name: Grrrben
    picture: 112992
  body: "Thanks Dan! I tried to edit the post but it seems like that isn't possible
    nowadays (or just today?).\r\n\r\nJelmar, the cover differs a little bit from
    what you see from the publisher's website, although what you see from Peter's
    website is a kind of dust jacket. A folded posterlike thingy wrapping the booklet
    its cover."
  created: '2008-11-16 18:25:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I apologize for snoring.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-16 20:33:27'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "Thank you for sharing.\r\n\r\n\u0192"
  created: '2008-11-16 20:57:26'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "[OT] Fredo,\r\n\r\nNice to see a contemporary use of the old Dutch guilder
    sign! Evidently it's still there, even in brand new fonts (for example, in [[http://www.typophile.com/node/51198|Aller]])."
  created: '2008-11-16 23:31:12'
- author:
    name: WType
    picture: 116173
  body: 'Thanks for fixing the links- it''s working now. '
  created: '2008-11-17 01:11:08'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: ">> <em>Thanks Dan! I tried to edit the post but it seems like that isn\u2019t
    possible nowadays (or just today?).</em>\r\n\r\nI think editing posts has changed
    a while back. I think there is a timer on it now. You can't edit posts anymore
    after a certain time has passed.\r\n\r\n>> <em>the cover differs a little bit
    from what you see from the publisher\u2019s website, although what you see from
    Peter\u2019s website is a kind of dust jacket.</em>\r\n\r\nAh, ok that clears
    that up. :) Is the book any good? I'm thinking about ordering it."
  created: '2008-11-17 02:20:45'
- author:
    name: WType
    picture: 116173
  body: "i think I like the dust jacket...\r\n\r\ni like the font too.\r\n\r\nThe
    fact that a government is serious about their identity and appointed a designer
    to create a new font for them is just GREAT! (Sorry, I come from a country where
    the government doesn't give a damn about fonts and identity. To them, Arial could
    be as good as Helvetica...)\r\n\r\ni wonder how many government would do that?-
    UK? France? US? Italy?... well it's one thing to work on a new ID for a government,
    but quite another to get a specialist to design a new set of font- probably just
    Dutch government would go to that extent? \r\n\r\nA friend of mine who had a chance
    to work with Dumbar couple of years back - I remember him showing me an identity
    and logo he had worked on with Dumbar - if I am not wrong- it's this government's
    logo- the older one."
  created: '2008-11-17 07:00:17'
- author:
    name: WType
    picture: 116173
  body: "To me, Dutch design (including font) always appear to be kind of \"cold\".
    They are always \"undecorative\" and \"quiet\", very \"minimalist\" (unlike the
    others countries, say, the US- The American are always very warm, energetic and
    passionate...) \r\n\r\nJust look at Peter Bil'ak's. It has got the same kind of
    qualities too... (now, again, that's my personal view...)\r\n\r\nI remember reading
    from the book \"lifestyle\" by Bruce Mau- Bruce talked about an experience he
    had with a Dutch client, introduced by his associate, Ram Koolhaa, the great architect.
    At the end of the day, Bruce thought the clients were not interested because they
    didn't seem to display much enthusiasm. \r\n\r\nThis is what Rem said:\" Don't
    be fooled, the Dutch see enthusiasm as a sign of weakness.\"\r\n\r\nI thought
    that reflected in their design too..."
  created: '2008-11-17 07:21:13'
- author:
    name: Pieter van Rosmalen
    picture: 109564
  body: "Dutch design doesn\u2019t excisit.\r\n\r\nPieter"
  created: '2008-11-17 08:47:06'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: ">> <em>Dutch design doesn\u2019t excisit.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat are people trying
    to describe if they refer to 'Dutch Design'?"
  created: '2008-11-17 10:42:11'
- author:
    name: Pieter van Rosmalen
    picture: 109564
  body: "I think what they see as Dutch design is the work of Wim Crouwel and the
    designers who are working in the same way. Very clean and grid wise. But that\u2019s
    not Dutch design because it doesn\u2019t excist.\r\n\r\nPieter"
  created: '2008-11-17 11:03:15'
- author:
    name: WType
    picture: 116173
  body: "\" I am much more influenced by arthitecture, than by graphic design\" -Wim
    Crouwel\r\n\r\nwww.youtube.com/watch?v=I5y3px4ovxE\r\n\r\nwww.youtube.com/watch?v=i-HVW-0eoe0&feature=related\r\n\r\n(just
    look at 1:44 - 1:50)\r\n\r\nI think this guy has a lot of passion. It's amazing
    how omeone who can talk about something which can potentially be \"rigid\" or
    \"boring\", which is the gird and \"constructionism\", with such great passion
    and fun...It's inspiring.\r\n\r\nAnd new alphabet is realy cool-even until today...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-17 11:38:08'
- author:
    name: WType
    picture: 116173
  body: "Let's go for an emotional roller coaster- \r\n\r\nwww.youtube.com/watch?v=DKXmfRllQIc&feature=related"
  created: '2008-11-17 11:48:57'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: ">><em> But that\u2019s not Dutch design because it doesn\u2019t excist.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat
    do you call it then? "
  created: '2008-11-17 13:48:17'
- author:
    name: Pieter van Rosmalen
    picture: 109564
  body: "Good question.\r\nIt think it\u2019s just called graphic design.\r\nWhat
    makes design nowadays done by designers from The Netherlands typical? I don\u2019t
    know. Is it typical?\r\n\r\nBut we are going off topic now. :)\r\nPeter Verheul
    designed a good typeface for the government!\r\n\r\nPieter"
  created: '2008-11-17 14:27:44'
- author:
    name: nora g
    picture: 113099
  body: off topic also ... but, by the way, did you see the new 5 euro-coins of the
    netherlands? http://www.fontblog.de/wunderbare-euromuenze
  created: '2008-11-17 15:26:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think compared to Europe overall, Dutch design (which most certainly exists)
    isn't at all cold. But at least in the realm of fonts things <em>are</em> starting
    to get too formulaic. And there will be a reaction.\r\n\r\nThat coin though rules.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-17 16:45:41'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "My brother e-mailed me an image some time ago. When I saw the coin I thought:
    \"Why didn't <em>I</em> think of that!?\"\r\n\r\nI don't think I will add circular
    text to my font-warping-into-image program (see [[http://typophile.com/node/45299|this
    old discussion]]). After all, Now It Has Been Done Before."
  created: '2008-11-17 16:57:25'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "<cite>Now It Has Been Done Before.</cite>\r\n\r\nI didn't double post! I
    did <strong>not</strong>! Honestly!"
  created: '2008-11-17 16:59:52'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: ">> <em>Is it typical? But we are going off topic now. :)</em>\r\n\r\nI agree.
    Last thing... there is a style of type design that is considered 'Dutch'. You
    know; 'that typeface looks really Dutch to me'. Couldn't the same in some way
    apply to design in general?\r\nProbably more difficult to pinpoint, but I think
    it exists."
  created: '2008-11-17 18:34:26'
- author:
    name: WType
    picture: 116173
  body: "Agree...there is such thing as Dutch design, and is characteristically very
    strong-including the font design. \r\n\r\nIt's something that once you see it,
    you would go, \"AHH! That's Dutch!\"\r\n\r\nwe might not be able to describe or
    quantify it with words, but they sure exist!\r\n\r\n\"Cold\" might not be the
    best word (excuse me for my limited vocab)- \"formulaic\"..may be... but all that
    don't mean it's \"boring\" or \"rigid\". \r\n\r\nOne can't help but to admire
    the highly discipline of these Dutch designers in adhering to straight rules and
    regulation, yet at the same time be creative and acheive a high sense of aethestic
    which is often very pure and serene- only skillful designers with great craftmanship
    can achieve this ...hats off to them... \r\n\r\nI would think it's easier to quantify
    Dutch Design than the Australian...I was trained in Australia...\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-18 13:05:57'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "<cite>Nice to see a contemporary use of the old Dutch guilder sign! Evidently
    it\u2019s still there, even in brand new fonts (for example, in Aller).</cite>\r\n\r\nYeah,
    considering the florin has a 400+ year history\u2026 \r\n\r\nBeing a Dutch designer,
    I can assure you that Dutch Design is as passionate as \u2014say\u2014 Argentinian
    Design. But perhaps Dutch patrons are not as passionate as Argentine ones\u2026\r\n\r\nOT
    I am not as happy as other Typophiles about this One Identity to superside Dozens
    of Disparate Identities. I like diversity. And whether my Tax Forms are laid out
    in Thesis, Arial or whatever, paying is just as painfull to the same measure\u2026\r\n\r\n(Could
    not resist that one, sorry\u2026)\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2008-11-18 14:14:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> \u201Cformulaic\u201D..may be... but all that don\u2019t mean it\u2019s
    \u201Cboring\u201D or \u201Crigid\u201D.\r\n\r\nTo me, in a way it does.\r\n\r\nIt
    would be highly interesting to study for example the evolution of student work
    at KABK: is the difference between the first efforts and the final results basically
    injecting Dutchness into it? The reason I worry is that I see people going to
    the Netherlands from South America for example and suddenly producing very Dutchy
    work. It's a shame.\r\n\r\nAnother problem I have is that Dutch type is blindly
    devoted to chirography, so as pretty as it looks, it's still regressive.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-18 17:14:51'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: ">> <em>Another problem I have is that Dutch type is blindly devoted to chirography</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    exactly what I like about it.\r\n\r\n>> <em>did you see the new 5 euro-coins of
    the netherlands?</em>\r\n\r\nForgot to comment on those. They are excellent. Especially
    the negative space on the '5 euro' side, forming the shape of The Netherlands
    (which I only saw when looking at it for a bit longer)."
  created: '2008-11-19 00:32:07'
- author:
    name: WType
    picture: 116173
  body: "Hrant, I see your point.\r\n\r\nThe same arguement has been made about Basel
    and the Swiss too. What we need to see is some \"rebels\" emerge from within Dutch,
    who disagree with the traditional approach and start doing something entirely
    different.\r\n\r\nDavid Carson kind of played that role.\r\n\r\nAlthough unintentionally,
    he did carry the entire trend to the other extreme for awhile and kind of loosen
    everyone else up a bit. I doubt that his crazy style can be widely accepted by
    the Dutch even today, but at least on the level of international, it was refreshig
    to see his works and it opened up lots of alternatives and experimental treatments
    of type arround the world..."
  created: '2008-11-19 04:28:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> What we need to see is some \u201Crebels\u201D emerge from within Dutch\r\n\r\nIndeed.
    Evert Bloemsma was such a person, although rebels are rarely so humble and mild!
    Tellingly I think, Evert mostly lived geographically away from the Netherlands
    after his education. This is also the case with two other Dutch rebels: RvL, and
    De Groot*. Perhaps I'm reading too much into this, but I would posit that Western
    cultures are typically very good at focusing and refining an ideology, but perhaps
    not as good at harboring the fruitful self-doubt so necessary for true progress,
    and the elevating of tolerance beyond merely accepting the presence of opposing
    viewpoints; to me true tolerance involves embracing and even reveling in the presence
    of things you don't agree with. When tolerance is limited to simply allowing coexistence
    without showing any \"we're all human\" warmth towards your antagonist, that antagonist
    is never going to be really happy, and is going to end up leaving anyway. When
    dissent is cherished instead of merely coldly tolerated, that's when society truly
    benefits. People need to think and say: \"Please tell me what I'm doing wrong.\"
    And that's rare, East or West.\r\n\r\n* Luc[as] has in fact told me that Amsterdam
    was too small for him, and that's why he moved to Berlin. And this \"size\" issue
    might in fact be an allegory of sorts for differing varieties of ideology.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-19 05:23:14'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: It's evident that the less you know about a country and their respective "scene",
    the easier it gets to generalize.
  created: '2008-11-19 13:04:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Very true. That explains why I had a bit of trouble. I've been observing
    The Netherlands and its people for over 30 years, and its type designers for over
    10. I've talked to them, read their books, and analyzed their work. I used to
    be in love with them; now I just like them more than most. To be fair, that happens
    to most everything with age.\r\n\r\nBut also:\r\n- Generalization is a human tool.
    Denying that is disingenious.\r\n- When you're too close to something you can't
    see it clearly.\r\nDon't trust an Armenian to give the best insights about Armenia.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-19 14:48:31'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "Well put! But You're still the n\xBA1 goto-guy when it comes to anything
    Armenian here at Typophile. Or has that mysteriously changed?"
  created: '2008-11-19 15:15:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I try. Plus fonts are much easier than peoples.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-19 15:21:26'
- author:
    name: gferreira
    picture: 110517
  body: "hrant wrote: \r\n<cite>It would be highly interesting to study for example
    the evolution of student work at KABK: is the difference between the first efforts
    and the final results basically injecting Dutchness into it? The reason I worry
    is that I see people going to the Netherlands from South America for example and
    suddenly producing very Dutchy work. It\u2019s a shame.</cite>\r\n\r\nhm. i think
    it's a shame for you to make such statements without actually being there, knowing
    the people & their work etc.\r\n\r\n- gustavo* \r\n\r\n* rio de janeiro / brasil
    + type&media 2005-06"
  created: '2008-11-20 23:08:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What, I have to marry them?\r\nBut a good \"before-after\" study might shed
    some great light.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-20 23:25:08'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "It is called academism for a reason \u2014 there is always the chance of
    developing talents taking up the examples of their instructors, especially when
    they are inspiring. It has happened before (I saw it amongst the painters when
    I attended Art School, when dozens of graduates turned out the same neo-abstract
    shit as the two most famous of their professors) and no doubt it will happen again.\r\n\r\nBut
    I don\u2019t think it is a bad thing \u2014 people evolve and find their own ways.
    Hopefully.\r\nSo \u2014 let\u2019s wait and see\u2026\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen
    BNO"
  created: '2008-11-20 23:35:18'
- author:
    name: abi
    picture: 111936
  body: "Hrant,\r\n\r\nNo, marriage isn't necessary.\r\n\r\nOne of the instructors
    has actually expressed dismay that it is a shame all the work from KABK is bunched
    together and dismissed as being 'Dutch'. The thing is that each student has their
    own flavour and their own ideas of what makes good type (of course some people
    have a taste for the construction of type our instructors utilize). But because
    of the diverse range of backgrounds and the variety of tools we are taught to
    use the end results are actually very rooted in the ideals of the student. Not
    to mention that all our instructors (in their classroom teachings and personal
    work) are very different and have many different opinions on type design, it's
    up to us to pick and choose our path based on the whole array of techniques. Reading
    your comments I get the impression that you haven't seen too much of the past
    work from students in Type and Media (though I must say an online gallery showcasing
    past graduation typefaces would be nice).\r\n\r\nAnd I assure you: the South American
    in our current year is still producing very South American work :)"
  created: '2008-11-21 06:39:44'
- author:
    name: pvanderlaan
    picture: 112305
  body: "<cite>The reason I worry is that I see people going to the Netherlands from
    South America for example and suddenly producing very Dutchy work.</cite>\r\nHave
    you actually seen the work of this south-american student before he enrolled at
    Type & Media? Do you know anything about his background at all? This statement
    is offensive to every south-american person.\r\n\r\n<cite>Another problem I have
    is that Dutch type is blindly devoted to chirography, so as pretty as it looks,
    it\u2019s still regressive.</cite>\r\nAnd this ever-recurring mantra is just as
    formulaic, boring, rigid and downright wrong. Repeating the same message over
    and over again doesn't make it more true, unfortunately.\r\n\r\n<cite>I apologize
    for snoring.</cite>\r\nYou may apologise for insulting, but I know you won't.\r\n\r\n\r\n-Paul
    van der Laan\r\nwww.type-invaders.com"
  created: '2008-11-21 10:08:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> This statement is offensive to every south-american person.\r\n\r\nNot
    to the ones who fight for their culture.\r\nLook at the winners of the last Morisawa
    awards.\r\n\r\nAnd don't talk to me about mantras. \"There's no essential difference...\"\r\nSheesh.
    If it weren't a religion, it would be a joke.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nI do apologize
    for thinking that this thread would be boring. But I can't apologize for my feelings
    of boredom when I look at <em>formulaic</em> design, and for expressing those
    emotions. I do try to keep my emotions in check however, and I would ask that
    you try to do the same.\r\n\r\nThe only saving grace is that any type id for a
    government probably can't escape being formulaic, so I guess the brief was followed
    very well, and that's the primary goal of any good designer. So maybe my complaint
    can be seen in that light.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-21 15:23:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Bert, I've been meaning to reply to your post with a great quote\r\nthat
    was in the back of my mind, but had trouble tracking it down:\r\n\r\n\"The true
    teacher defends his pupils against his own personal influence.\r\nHe inspires
    self-distrust. He guides their eyes from himself to the spirit\r\nthat quickens
    him. He will have no disciple.\"\r\n- Amos Bronson Alcott\r\n\r\nI try hard to
    be like this when I teach, but of course have no idea whether I\r\neven come close.
    As I've said before, the subjugation of individual judgment\r\nand expression
    is the seemingly inescapable dark side of formal education.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-25 06:09:56'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Thanks for that quote, Hrant! Luckily I had a few of those teachers in my
    time\u2026 ; )\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2008-11-25 09:40:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I rediscovered this thread thanks to a new one*, and wanted to show something
    by Verheul that I found about since:\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/typojo/4518419388/\r\nTo
    me that one glyph is worth more than the entire Rijksoverheid font project.\r\n\r\n*
    http://typophile.com/node/102928\r\n\r\nRelated: http://typographica.org/typeface-reviews/quintet/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-10 23:49:45'
date: '2008-11-12 22:20:00'
title: Identity font for Dutch government

---
