---
author:
  name: Yehan
  picture: 112677
body: "I'm sure we all have certain typefaces we know are really brilliant but somehow
  they never seem to get the exposure or publicity the rightfully deserve as examples
  of great type design.\r\n\r\nOne of those for me is ITC Mendoza. I very rarely see
  it but it seems to me that it's a really lovely typeface.\r\n\r\nAnyone else knows
  fonts like this?\r\n\r\n(granted, this is all personal opinion)\r\n\r\nMark"
comments:
- author:
    name: hashimpm
    picture: 109610
  body: Photina, Linotype Centenniel, Melior, Quorum, the list goes on...
  created: '2008-11-13 04:48:11'
- author:
    name: hashimpm
    picture: 109610
  body: Photina, Linotype Centenniel, Melior, Quorum, the list goes on...
  created: '2008-11-13 04:48:51'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: 'Vialog and Aptifer are probably some of the best stuff to hit the Linotype
    line in recent years, and nobody uses them. I find this particularly surprising
    in the case of Aptifer, because it has a killer range of slab weights that I expected
    to be a big with the recent revival of slab type. '
  created: '2008-11-13 05:09:45'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: helvetica.
  created: '2008-11-13 05:23:22'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: I collected some of my favorite underused fonts for the <a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/stewf/sets/72157594511485997/">QBN
    Typecase</a> and <a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/stewf/376079506/in/set-72157594511485997/">ITC
    Mendoza</a> is one of them.
  created: '2008-11-13 05:31:15'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "@hashimpm - my girlfriend recently read Shopaholic and Sister  (UK edition
    i think) which surprised me when i flicked through it as it was set in melior.\r\n\r\nwhich
    at first i was happy about cause i love melior, but for some reason i really didn't
    like it in that book... i think it was too loose and light.\r\n\r\nhmmm..."
  created: '2008-11-13 05:34:41'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: <a href="http://typetease.emigre.com/cgi-bin/fontRender?action=set&fontList=JournTex.ttf,JournIta.ttf,JournUlt.ttf,JournBol.ttf,JournUltBol.ttf,JournTexSma.ttf,JournItaSma.ttf,JournUltSma.ttf&fontSize=0&renderText=The%20quick%20brown%20fox%20jumps%20over%20the%20lazy%20dog.">Journal
    from Emigre</a>
  created: '2008-11-13 05:39:36'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: Noa, Bohemia, Merlo, Today Sans, and I have yet to see a book set in Clifford.
  created: '2008-11-13 05:42:59'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: Joc Line
  created: '2008-11-13 06:17:44'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: Also Indigo, PTL Speech, anything Maniakers, Arrus, Sirenne, Fleischman from
    Bitstream, Kennedy from Galapagos, anything Pampatype, Lazurski, anything Anatoletype,
    Nevia BT Pro from Bitstream, Gilgamesh, Iowan Old Style, Really by Gary Munch....
    and Prado from Berthold Types
  created: '2008-11-13 06:23:33'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "> I have yet to see a book set in Clifford.\r\n\r\nI have a beautiful example
    I'll have to post on Typo someday."
  created: '2008-11-13 06:24:54'
- author:
    name: h johnston
  body: "[[http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/agfa/plantin/ | Plantin]]\r\n\r\nI love this
    font, I have used it for [[http://harleyjohnston.com/ | my own corporate identity]].
    I have only seen it used one place before, but I'm glad it's not used too much.
    The italics are sublime."
  created: '2008-11-13 07:46:23'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: 'Plantin: most prominent recent use is probably <a href="http://www.monocle.com/">Monocle</a>
    magazine.'
  created: '2008-11-13 07:47:36'
- author:
    name: J Weltin
    picture: 111273
  body: "Silica by Sumner Stone.\r\nItalian Old Style by Frederic W. Goudy."
  created: '2008-11-13 07:54:31'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Amen, J\xFCrgen. Join me in pestering Sumner every few weeks for Silica italics."
  created: '2008-11-13 07:59:34'
- author:
    name: J Weltin
    picture: 111273
  body: 'Stephen: I would even offer him to produce it. I have this in mind for ages
    ...'
  created: '2008-11-13 08:14:23'
- author:
    name: Dan Petter
    picture: 115186
  body: "when i read this thread's title, the type nerd living inside my head screamed
    ITC Mendoza, and, slightly less exited, Silica. how late can you be to join a
    party...\r\n\r\nluckily, there's more. i've yet to encounter [[http://www.shinntype.com/|Bodoni
    Egyptian]] in use, and i'd love to see [[http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/arstype/ars_maquette/|ARS
    Maquette]] printed somewhere other than FontShops own promotional material. (if
    single weights were available, i might even take matters in my own hands.)"
  created: '2008-11-13 12:08:15'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Mendoza is a fantastic typeface. Its low contrast makes it great to set type
    in small sizes.\r\nI actually found I owned a license (bundled with some old software,
    I don't recall if it was Freehand), and I hope some day I will have the opportunity
    to use it\u2026\r\n\r\nI do not have a similar feeling for recent faces, besides
    it seems there are so many gems to de discovered among 1980s designs (which went
    overlooked because of the frenzy of the digital avant-gardes, pursuing more display-oriented
    letters)."
  created: '2008-11-13 13:53:58'
- author:
    name: Manlio Napoli
    picture: 111362
  body: ">> I have yet to see a book set in Clifford.\r\n\r\n> I have a beautiful
    example I\u2019ll have to post on Typo someday.\r\n\r\nPlease, do it soon.\r\n\r\nIs
    there any OT Pro version of ITC Mendoza with CE diacritical marks, etc?"
  created: '2008-11-13 14:59:54'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: I do not think that there is yet. Sorry :(
  created: '2008-11-13 16:39:10'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: In the case of Elsner & Flake, their website is a nightmare to search. Bad
    marketing might apply to some of the others.
  created: '2008-11-13 19:55:05'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'Forgive me, that should read "was". They''ve apparently updated: http://www.fonts4ever.com/foundry_detail.php?f_shops_id=8'
  created: '2008-11-13 19:57:41'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'And: I''ll add Stilla to the list. I''ve only seen it used once.'
  created: '2008-11-13 20:00:30'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: I have a Lord of the Rings set in Plantin. It's a delight. Nice and dark too.
  created: '2008-11-13 21:32:29'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: 'Stilla in use: <a href="http://profile.myspace.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=user.viewprofile&friendid=15707569">WFTP</a>,
    <a href="http://www.hijackyourlife.com/Workpages/Goodbye%20Stones.html">lettering
    on poster inspired by Stilla</a>, <a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/stewf/166979683/">clothing
    label</a>, <a href="http://typographica.org/001077.php">a silly thing I did</a>.'
  created: '2008-11-13 22:51:44'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "<cite> And: I\u2019ll add Stilla to the list. I\u2019ve only seen it used
    once. </cite>\r\nStilla is great, although you have to be skilled to use it well\u2026\r\nBut
    I think it's one of those typefaces which do not benefit from an excessive exposure."
  created: '2008-11-14 12:36:34'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: It may be just me, but I don't remember seeing Kepler used very much, or Alisal.
    This despite Robert Slimbach (Kepler) and Matthew Carter (Alisal) not being exactly
    unknown type designers.
  created: '2008-11-14 14:07:36'
- author:
    name: adnix
    picture: 109591
  body: "<cite>i\u2019ve yet to encounter Bodoni Egyptian in use</cite>\r\n\r\nI just
    saw it used in the kid's section of the latest J. Crew catalog. I think it was
    the Roman or Thin weight, not sure as I don't have it in front of me. But I remember
    noticing the type as it was the first time I had seen it in commercial use.\r\n\r\nDavid"
  created: '2008-11-14 21:16:58'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "I have yet to find a book set in FB Alpha Bloc Corde with footnotes in Adobe
    Ponderosa.\r\n\r\nI feel empty inside.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2008-11-15 15:26:26'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: The only place I've seen Kepler used is the <a href=http://cornellsun.com/node/33613>Cornell
    Daily Sun</a>.
  created: '2008-11-15 20:51:00'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "The Ascender Originals almost never come up in discussion but are actually
    pretty nice. \r\nMiramonte is lovely. Metro and Futura\u2019s love child."
  created: '2008-11-16 10:14:04'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Thanks Stephen. I'm gonna have to buy that typeface. It's amazing!
  created: '2008-11-16 23:00:58'
- author:
    name: Yehan
    picture: 112677
  body: "Wow..I gotta check out all these faces. To be honest..I'm quite sick of the
    same stuff being used over and over again...not that they're bad; but we could
    all use some variety once in awhile.\r\n\r\nJust had the opportunity to set a
    book in Mendoza and I've absolutely fallen for it:D"
  created: '2008-11-19 08:42:31'
- author:
    name: jayar
  body: "Jay Rutherford\r\nI used Mendoza along with Interstate Bold for a corporate
    identity project a few years ago. They go great together! I built a font package
    with Mendoza normal, Mendoza Italic, Interstate Bold in the bold position and
    Mendoza small caps in the bold italic position. The contrasts work well, and it's
    easy for the architects to use on their PCs. \r\n\r\nI also used Clifford some
    years ago for a book \u2013 the documentation of a typography conference we held
    here in Weimar in 2001. It was never actually printed, rather the PDFs were burned
    onto a CD and sold that way. Clifford reads really quite well on screen, as well
    as being an excellent text face for print. I'll upload an image when I get to
    a computer where the drive works. \r\n"
  created: '2008-11-26 15:50:37'
- author:
    name: jayar
  body: "Jay Rutherford\r\nHere's the image: \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/TectumCard512_5885.jpg]\r\n\r\nInterstate
    Bold is used on the back, set in 10 pt., for the partners' names. "
  created: '2008-11-26 16:00:48'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I used Stilla recently on a t-shirt for friends surprise birthday party.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/typegirl/3048139893/sizes/l/"
  created: '2008-11-26 20:43:29'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite>Oops! You don't have permission to view this page.</cite>\r\n\r\nTiffany,
    it seems your Flickr settings allow viewing all sizes for friends and family only. "
  created: '2008-11-26 21:07:34'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Fudge.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/whosthirty_3804.png]"
  created: '2008-11-27 00:58:11'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: That's Motter Femina, not Stilla. Similar feel, though.
  created: '2008-11-27 01:16:57'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: :-X I knew that. Today has not been my day for logic. At all. What so ever.
    FAIL.
  created: '2008-11-27 01:20:20'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Still, another great face that doesn't get used much.
  created: '2008-11-27 02:30:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "J\xFCrgen, Stephen, if you manage to convince Sumner to add italics to Silica,
    I will never forgive you. Don't soil such a pristine thing with the impurity that
    is Italic. Silica has a fine weight gradation for a reason - it doesn't need italics
    for emphasis, or anything else.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/stewf/18634518/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-31 01:36:43'
- author:
    name: Yehan
    picture: 112677
  body: '@ Jayar where did you get the OSF for ITC Mendoza. I don''t remember it having
    OSF? Or did it?'
  children:
  - author:
      name: jayar
    body: "Yehan: it was a long time ago that I did this, can\u2019t remember exactly.
      It may be that I opened the file in Fontographer, the oldstyle figures were
      in there and I just copied and pasted them into the normal positions (I have
      done this with a few faces). When I open the font now in FontLab, though, they
      aren't there. I also don't remember where the small caps came from \u2013 if
      I find them, that may be where the OS figures came from. A little detective
      work is apparently in order. I\u2019ll get right on it. "
    created: '2014-01-15 09:46:11'
  created: '2009-01-31 02:01:51'
- author:
    name: illix
    picture: 115899
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Text-ArchitypeTwo3_6347.gif] \r\n Architype
    Bayer-Type is based upon Herbert bayer's 1931 experimental, universal modern face.\r\nI
    love this one. \r\nYou can find it at: [[http://www.foundrytypes.co.uk]]"
  created: '2009-01-31 12:00:48'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Jay\u2019s example reminded me of pairing Metron with Lucida Bright on a
    friends card. Printed on a Heidelberg Windmill. This was before Metron fell into
    a legal mess. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ML_6343.jpg]"
  created: '2009-01-31 13:55:28'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "Joshua Darden's Freight\r\nSumner Stone's Cycles [Eleven]\r\nJean Francoise
    Porchez's Parisine Plus"
  created: '2009-01-31 16:20:10'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Hrant - You are alone in your hatred of italics. The rest of us want versatility,
    not your imagination of "purity".
  created: '2009-02-01 00:27:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "1) Well, not really <em>hatred</em>.\r\n2) Nobody is ever alone.\r\n3) Versatility
    does not exist in a vacuum; things you can't see are tugging on it. And integrity
    has a versatility all its own.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-01 00:56:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW, to reply to the original post: Octavian, Legato, Sangue.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-01 02:08:44'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "WHOA that Sangue is incredible (sorry for shouting)!\r\n\r\nThere are some
    really interesting suggestions in this thread. Great input.\r\n\r\n<em>Parisine
    Plus</em>\r\nI've used this a bunch of times, but feel it's quite difficult to
    make it not talk \r\nin a somewhat conceited girly voice (that descending \"G\",
    uhh). I think \r\nthe \"original\" Parisine family is excellent, though, and amazingly
    versatile. \r\nCould probably also be used more.\r\n\r\n<em>Legato</em>\r\nAmen."
  created: '2009-02-01 10:38:52'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > Joshua Darden\u2019s Freight </cite>\r\n\r\nFreight's a fine face,
    but hardly what I would call \"seldom used\" since it's used all over a few prominent
    magazines. <em>Better Homes and Gardens</em> comes immediately to mind. The other
    titles escape me at the moment.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-01 13:25:58'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: Macworld is another one that uses Freight
  created: '2009-02-03 02:17:40'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Corgi Books used Plantin to set some of the pocket book versions of T. Lobsang
    Rampa's output.\r\n\r\nOne typeface discussed here that is rarely used and which
    deserves more use is Emerson but then the only revival now available has short
    descenders."
  created: '2014-01-15 14:56:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Our Ben Mitchell might have something to say about that...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-01-15 16:27:41'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Just took a look at Silica.\r\n\r\nYes, it has enough weights that one could
    use an intermediate bold instead of italics. Doing so still limits flexibility
    in choosing which weight to use for normal text, though: if this <em>is</em> what
    is intended, it should have had twice as many weights as it does.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    I do have to admit that the design does not seem well suited to a companion italic.
    However, there are many quite similar typefaces out there which have italics,
    so I suspect that it isn't that badly suited to one.\r\n\r\nIf there's a more
    faithful revival of Emerson out there now, that's really good news."
  created: '2014-01-16 00:44:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I love Silica for its lack of Italic.\r\nI was disappointed to hear that
    Stone would actually like it to have one:\r\nhttps://twitter.com/sthoths/statuses/368819562239643649\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-01-16 05:42:47'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: Well, his comments there at least indicate that he is in no rush to add an
    italic, and intends to make sure that a companion italic is suitable before adding
    one.
  created: '2014-01-16 18:01:43'
- author:
    name: tmac
    picture: 117522
  body: "Since this thread has come back up, and since typophile is working, I'm going
    to throw this in:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.ambplus.com/pa/3c.html\r\n\r\nNewut may be
    the first typeface I ever licensed (apart from through other software). I like
    the uniformity of the grey blocks you can make out of it. And it reads well for
    a unicase."
  created: '2014-01-24 07:57:33'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Thanks, Hrant for pointing me to this thread. I've been working on an Emerson
    project for the last couple of years, and I'm taking a very broad approach, digging
    up lots of interesting history, pattern drawings and correspondence, reading about
    Blumenthal and comparing the foundry type with the Monotype conversion. I've settled
    on my approach, but progress is slow as I have plenty of other projects on the
    go, but here's a sneak peek. There's still a need to even out the colour but this
    shows the overall proportions, weight and styling I'm aiming for. There are some
    interesting unpublished italics which I intend to revive too, along with bold
    and possibly other weights. [img:sites/default/files/old-images/EmersonBM_6466.jpg]\r\n\r\nI'm
    interested in the comment about the long extenders; are you referring to the Nonpareil
    revival?"
  created: '2014-03-09 16:37:47'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "I don't see typefaces by TEFF often (some exceptions), though with good reasons.
    I love Ruse for example but the only time I've seen it is in Noordzij's \"The
    Stroke\". I don't think I've ever seen Geronimo in use. Trinit\xE9 I see a couple
    of times per week because there's a little book store in Rotterdam called \"Boekhandel
    v/h Van Gennep\" which features its name in Trinit\xE9 on the window.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/etalage-boekhandel-van-gennep-rotterdam_5321.jpg]"
  created: '2014-03-09 21:52:38'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I've seen Melior and Plantin often enough not to think of them as particularly
    rare. Aldus, the \"book\" version of Palatino, on the other hand, seems to turn
    up only in books typeset in Europe, particularly in German-speaking areas, so
    I would put it at the borderline of this category.\r\n\r\nBut there are <em>many</em>
    excellent typefaces that truly are almost never used - they probably number in
    the hundreds, if not thousands.\r\n\r\nDespite the fact that Sturgeon's Law also
    applies to typefaces, and poor ones vastly outnumber excellent ones. Actually,
    <em>despite that</em> in one way - if poor typefaces outnumber excellent ones
    so much, how can so many excellent ones exist - but <em>because of that</em> in
    another - since so many inferior typefaces exist, sifting through them to find
    good ones is arduous, so it's simpler to rely on a \"gatekeeper\", and only consider
    the most popular typefaces from the biggest font suppliers."
  created: '2014-03-10 02:17:46'
date: '2008-11-13 04:32:59'
title: Excellent but seldom used fonts

---
