---
body: ID, Please?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/img022_3940.jpg]
comments:
- author:
    name: bowfinpw
    picture: 110174
  body: "I can't find anything to match it. I wonder if this is hand-drawn?\r\n\r\n-
    Mike Yanega"
  created: '2008-11-15 17:03:22'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Where is it from?
  created: '2008-11-15 17:39:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Don't try to reverse that out of a photo!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-11-15 19:30:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Maybe the largest cut of Hoefler's Didot?\r\n\r\nBTW Jackie, I noticed you're
    in LA, so I'd like to bring to your attention a typeface design evening course
    on offer at ArtCenter (Pasadena), which I've run twice in the past, and will be
    offered again in the Spring. I also noticed you really like fat, high-contrast
    fonts. :-)  So maybe you can make your own super fat, super elegant typeface!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-15 19:34:24'
- body: hrant, I go to Art Center. what class is this?
  created: '2008-11-15 23:44:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ah!\r\n\r\nIt's called \"Introduction to Typeface Design\", and it runs one
    evening a week for 14 weeks, three hours per session. The next time it will be
    offered is in the Spring. Here's a thread from a previous incarnation:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/30444\r\n\r\nFeel
    free to email me for an eventual reminder: hpapazian at gmail dot com\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-16 02:02:24'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "\"the motivation for creating new fonts, the difference between lettermaking
    disciplines (e.g. calligraphy, lettering) and type design\"\r\n\r\nThere is no
    difference. It is a continuum Hrant. When will you understand that?\r\n\r\nIf
    you are going to offer this course then you have to come at it from an unbiased
    position, otherwise you are doing your students a disservice.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-11-16 02:11:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> you have to come at it from an unbiased position\r\n\r\nNot humanly possible.\r\n\r\nWhich
    is not at all to say that I think \"continuum\" -in the strict, and\r\nuseful,
    sense of the word- is a valid idea here. I discover, contemplate,\r\nand try to
    teach about <em>differences</em>, which is what makes life worth living.\r\n\r\nAnd
    FYI, the main feedback I've gotten from my students is \"wow, I had\r\nno idea
    type design is so complex!\" This is exactly what I love to hear,\r\nsomething
    I would not hear if I simply told them how to make type the\r\nway I like to make
    it. I'm not a monkey trainer, I'm a... scary gate opener.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-16 03:28:39'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "\"Not humanly possible.\" Letters are human manifestations. Absolutely possible
    from one who does not have an agenda! Therein lies the crux!\r\n\r\nThe fact that
    you cannot view the continuum as valid proves my point. The pen, in all it manifestations,
    is the source of letters. Because you have some aversion to the pen, brush and
    chisel says more about your inability to fit in. That is fine. Go off and do your
    little thing! Impress us all with your genius. Is it here yet or do we have to
    wait decades?\r\n\r\nAs to the feedback, that and 3 bucks will get you a cup of
    coffee at Starbucks, been there done that.\r\n\r\n\"I\u2019m a... scary gate opener.\"
    You flatter yourself.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-11-16 04:26:53'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Hey Hrant... why don't you and I teach a class together. That would be painfully
    fun, but truly eyeopening to the students.\r\n\r\nPromise I will leave the guns,
    brass knuckles and knife at home here in Virginia : )\r\n\r\nI am only a two time
    felon! Learned calligraphy in jail. I Photoshopped the bars out of my picture.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-11-16 04:45:15'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "P.s. could that image be a photo of an amber/rubylith or a tired old PMT?
    Just a thought.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-11-16 04:50:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The pen, in all it manifestations, is the source of letters.\r\n\r\nHogwash.\r\n\r\nBut
    don't worry, you and your ilk get generous coverage in my course.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-16 04:57:53'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "\"Hogwash\"\r\n\r\nThen where in the hell do you think letters came from?\r\n\r\nThis
    should be interesting!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-11-16 05:00:28'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Oh wait... they must have come from Transformers. My son plays with those.
    Who would have thought! Imagine digital in 234 AD!\r\n\r\nSo then the source,
    of letters, O enlightened one? I cannot even think of a retort to that dumass
    assertion.\r\n\r\nEdit: No, you have shown your ignorance. To make a statement
    like that shows your true lack of knowledge. I am stunned that they would even
    let you teach a class. Oh, wait, he knows his way around FontLab. Absolutely qualified...
    pass him on!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-11-16 05:26:00'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I too believe it is (the pen in none of it's manifestations), for a Didot
    to be used in Vogue by JH, circa 1995. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-11-16 12:27:10'
- author:
    name: Cubic_DS
    picture: 113085
  body: '[[http://typophile.com/node/50616|See here]]'
  created: '2008-11-17 13:43:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "> The pen, in all its manifestations, is the source of letters.\r\n\r\nThat's
    like saying the source of music is the (insert whichever musical instrument came
    first). The source of anything 'creative' is surely the mind: we're just imitating
    God (made in his image). The tool that was first used to produce it is merely
    coincidental. It doesn't have to inform how things are now best done, or how they
    will be done better tomorrow using different tools. I guess someone wrote with
    his/her finger in the dust of the ground prior to any pen being made. According
    to your logic, it could be argued that the source of letters is some Neanderthal's
    hand with or without a rock in it. \r\n\r\nIf I have understood you correctly,
    I think you would also say that the 'source' of domestic lighting is fire. However,
    today's best and brightest lights today have nothing to do with fire. Hrant may
    or may not be the Thomas Edison of typography (only time will tell - it's said
    that it took Edison more than a thousand attempts before he got a bulb that worked).
    I admire Hrant for wanting to break new ground, that takes character and resolve,
    it's what enterprise is all about. I would be very wary of being the person who
    witnessed Edison's penultimate light bulb experiment and branded him a complete
    waste of time and space.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure why you push your pen argument so
    aggressively. Does it matter that much where letters came from? If so, why, please
    help me understand? Have you ever thought, even for a moment, there may be better
    ways of making letters than with your pens?\r\n\r\nHrant, please show us what
    you've got so far. I and probably more than a few other are  intrigued.\r\n\r\nSorry
    I haven't got a clue about that big A but DB may have nailed it!"
  created: '2008-11-17 15:20:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The tool is merely the extension of the mind and the interface between thought
    of form and rendition of form. I see no advantage in discarding any past or future
    tool or way of working if it helps you get the desired result. Condemning or ridiculing
    someone else's way of working is a waste of time. None of us knows what will shape
    the next good result in type forms. Use whatever you can or want to but there
    is no need to control what others may use. \r\n\r\nMake type, not noise.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-11-17 15:57:16'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "ChrisL\r\nTyped, edited and retyped for almost an hour (before you chimed
    in) with an honest and thoughtful response and lost it... so \"no more noise\"
    other than the fact that I am here for the same reason as everyone else, letters.\r\n\r\nNick\r\nSorry
    if you mistake my passion for aggression. I earn my living with pens, brushes
    etc. as well as FontLab and Fontographer. Don't ever see separating myself from
    our calligraphic heritage. Variety is the spice of life.\r\n\r\nSorry Hrant. Yep,
    I started it, but the fact that you referred to me as \"your ilk\" shows that
    you are not as accepting as you want everybody else to be. \r\n\r\nBack to the
    ink!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-11-17 16:42:11'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Double post... sorry\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-11-17 16:43:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> please show us what you\u2019ve got so far.\r\n\r\nIf I had something valuable,
    maybe I wouldn't show it!  :-)\r\nMostly what I've had worth sharing so far are
    ideas.\r\nSome day it will click for me, and then watch out.\r\n\r\nBut for those
    who need to see actual examples, <em>we</em> do have something so far: Legato.
    Chirofanatics like Michael (they are legion) need to study it and understand why
    it's so special, and why that casts doubt on their regressive, self-validating
    ideology.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-17 16:56:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "Sorry Michael, I pressed 'Post' too quickly. You stick fast to your heritage;
    I wish you well. Not everyone likes the heritage (even if some think that everyone
    is in some measure indebted to it). If Hrant thinks something else is out there,
    I'm going to encourage his endeavour just in case he's right.\r\n\r\nChris, I
    think you're right and I'm sorry for being noisy."
  created: '2008-11-17 16:57:00'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "I rest my case!\r\n\r\nEdit: (I was referring to Hrant's beautiful, respectful
    and conciliatory response, not your note Nick)\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-11-17 17:02:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nick,\r\nThe point is that everyone is right within themselves as long as
    they let their own means drive them to valuable ends. People can be wrong to not
    see others as having value as well.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-11-17 17:03:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Chirography certainly isn't devoid of value.\r\nBut it just as certainly
    impedes progress.\r\n\r\nSome people prefer to celebrate, others prefer to improve.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-17 17:14:40'
- author:
    name: cumlivski
  body: 'Nick Job: The modern lightning has much to do with the fire. The energy comes
    from the combustion of coal/gas/petrol in the power station, or from the nuclear
    reaction, which is almost the same. Sorry for being so pedant, but the relationship
    of pen, brush and computer is similar. The pen/brush isn''t obligatory, but you
    have to mind it.'
  created: '2008-11-17 17:44:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "> The point is that everyone is right within themselves as long as they let
    their own means drive them to valuable ends.\r\n\r\nChris: I love your peaceable
    approach but who decides what are 'valuable ends'? In my opinion some very bad
    men have fully justified their ends as valuable 'within themselves' and been objectively
    very WRONG.\r\n\r\nThat said, Hrant may turn out to be justified that what he
    is concerned with is very valuable, indeed more valuable than supposedly informative
    handwritten forms; who is to say what people will say of him in 500 years' time
    and good luck to him? \r\n\r\nI admire anyone who can draw a beautiful form with
    a pen. I admire Hrant because of his enterprise and boundary-pushing. If Thomas
    Edison walked into a bar, most of us would want to buy him a drink. Even if Hrant
    never has a breakthrough like that, one can't criticise him for his ennui with
    the pen. The guy is restless, eager to innovate and just got bored with it all,
    that's all. OK so maybe he's a little churlish to keep saying, \"Michael, I'm
    bored with the very thing that you cherish.\"\r\n\r\nCumlivski: I can light a
    bulb by riding a bicycle: No fire involved unless I was cycling <em>away from</em>
    a fire, then it may even burn brighter!"
  created: '2008-11-17 22:51:59'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: It is formulated in our minds then exerted through our tools,  Its human effort.
  created: '2008-11-17 23:08:13'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "The funny thing is that if Hrant and I sat down, and after the crowd cleared
    from the initial exchange, he and I would surprise everyone with how much we agree
    on!\r\n\r\n He and I, well, at least me, tend to isolate as a result of our fervency.
    Can you feel the love : )\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-11-17 23:31:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, thanks for the [overly] kind words.\r\n\r\n> he and I would surprise
    everyone with how much we agree on!\r\n\r\nMost of all me.  :-/\r\nIt's not that
    I'm closed to new ideas, it's that I've thought about this topic -and sparred
    about it with the best- for years. In me, the illogic of chirography has overpowered
    its carnal appeal.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-17 23:43:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"who decides what are \u2019valuable ends\u2019?\"\r\n\r\nThe folks who
    use the type that is generated from the work decide and some may decide badly
    in our eyes. As is usual with human endeavor, there are many failures for every
    success. Hrant can find no logic in a calligraphic tooled basis so he need not
    waste his time bothering with it. Perhaps Michael sees it the opposite way so
    he will continue to work as he chooses. Luckily, we are dealing with type here
    and not nuclear weapons so there is no great threat to humanity either way. We
    need not agree on how we work or on what is a good outcome. Humans have argued
    for centuries. When all the dust has cleared, we can have our passions, our beliefs,
    and our opinions. We don't get to judge our own work anyway. We just put it out
    for others to use.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-11-18 00:00:25'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "\"It\u2019s not that I\u2019m closed to new ideas\"\r\n\r\nNor am I to old
    : ) That, hopefully, will get a giggle.\r\n\r\nI don't know that I particularly
    appreciate the the revival of archaic forms. Take for example the proliferation
    of Uncial forms. (I am so tired of calligraphic forms that are regurgitated without
    \ an eye on contemporary design.) Most, to me, seem like wasted effort. I haven't
    seen a good one, Uncial, in decades. I love Lange's Solemnis, but it was a hybrid,
    a contemporary adaptation. Whether it is \"chirographic (calligraphic, pretty
    please Hrant, just for me)\" or not, it was cutting edge way back when. Sort of
    what you are alluding to, not quite, but the same spirit.\r\n\r\nIf you read between
    the lines above Hrant you will see you and I are not so different. O hell... you
    don't even have to read between the lines.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-11-18 00:23:11'
- author:
    name: cumlivski
  body: 'Nick Job: But there''s still the oxidation in it, in the dynamo, accumulator,
    whatever. Rests of the fire in the modern time. The logic is that it works like
    the rules of statics. Your are building the bottom and then you add the appearence.
    We don''t have to pretend, that the sans serifs are constructed after the rules
    of calligraphy. But still you see inside these ephemere bones of a pen.'
  created: '2008-11-18 00:31:02'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "\"Your are building the bottom and then you add the appearence.\" \r\n\r\nJan...
    us outcasts call it dressing the bones!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-11-18 00:45:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I don\u2019t know that I particularly appreciate\r\n> the the revival of
    archaic forms.\r\n\r\nChirography is what's archaic.\r\n\r\n> But still you see
    inside these ephemere bones of a pen.\r\n\r\nToo often people see what they want
    to see. Even in Legato, a font\r\ndesigned by a devoted anti-chirographer, some
    people see the pen.\r\nThe illusion is a succubus, and some of you remain under
    her spell.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-18 00:51:45'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "I tried Hrant. Gave you a bag full of candy and you spit in it.\r\n\r\nNow
    who is the malcontent? Done!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-11-18 00:59:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm sorry if you thought I'm here to fawn.\r\nPlus Halloween was almost a
    month ago,\r\nand I'm not even wearing a costume.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-18 01:52:45'
- author:
    name: Graham McArthur
    picture: 109915
  body: ">> The pen, in all it manifestations, is the source of letters.\r\n\r\n>Hogwash.\r\n\r\nWell,
    how about that?\r\nHogwash, well I never would have guessed it. Many thanks for
    the enlightenment, I have always thought that our alphabet evolved through handwriting.
    I stand corrected, thank you.\r\nHowever I am perplexed to understand how this
    new alphabet will be constructed and what it will look like? Will I be able to
    read it?\r\nIt will be hard to learn to read and understand at first, but I am
    willing to try, so lets see these new letter forms that are not written and have
    no heritage to the pen or its manifestations.\r\nI suppose that Adobe will be
    dropping it's pen tool as well? \r\nHrant, Nick, what new tools are you guys using
    to replace pens, pencils & their electronic equivalents?\r\nAlso what are you
    replacing the current latin lettering system with?\r\nI really want to know as
    I am trying hard to understand your ideas and theory that as yet seems impossible
    for me to visualize. An example will help greatly because I can't visualize ABC..abc...
    etc that do not pay homage to the pen. The pen may not be the starting point for
    todays young type designers, but the letters they are making leave no doubt as
    to the pens heritage, no matter how much they hate the idea.\r\nEnough talk, lets
    see these ideas and theories in practice."
  created: '2008-11-19 02:45:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Graham, if the ideas are not creating even an iota of doubt, all examples
    will do is give you a bigger shovel to make your trench deeper. I have seen this
    time and again, for example with evaluations of Legato. You will see what you
    want to see, deepening the illusion and wasting both your time and mine, creating
    more resentment.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-19 03:00:49'
- author:
    name: Graham McArthur
    picture: 109915
  body: Hrant, I think our situations are reversed.
  created: '2008-11-19 03:20:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, I'm sure you're right. Goodbye.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-19 03:55:41'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "If you can't dazzle them with brilliance, baffle them with bullshit!\r\n\r\nP.s.
    Hrant, you don't seem to shy from creating resentment!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-11-19 04:56:56'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: Artist or Con-artist?
  created: '2008-11-19 06:56:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Artist?! Now <em>that's</em> mean.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-19 14:58:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "Save the hostilities for never.\r\n\r\n> Hrant, Nick, what new tools are
    you guys using to replace pens, pencils & their electronic equivalents?\r\n\r\nTools
    are and always have been improving all the time. It's interesting that you see
    a computer as an equivalent to the pen. I'm not even sure when a pen became a
    pen and stopped being a stick.\r\n\r\nFirst, maybe I'm being naive when I say
    this but, the fact that certain letters are certain shapes is, for me at least,
    nothing more than an 'accident'. You can see this by the way two (phonetic) written
    languages with similar sounds may have completely unrelated shapes to describe
    them, e.g. Hebrew and Latin.\r\n\r\nNext, I think therefore that the skeleton
    of an individual letter (I'm not talking about stress or serifs or angularity
    or anything else) is arbitrary; that is to say, it ought not to make a difference
    if it had been initially described with a stick, with a pen or with another (equally)
    effective method of leaving a mark on another material.\r\n\r\nIt logically does
    not follow to say that the best method of designing a character must be driven
    by what someone's pen (or stick) did hundreds and thousands of years ago on a
    sheet of wax/papyrus/paper/a tree/a cave wall or whatever. That would be like
    saying to an aeroplane designer, don't forget that one of the first methods of
    crossing a large expanse of water involved carving out the trunk of a non-porous
    tree (forgive me if my nautical history is hazy). Technology is continually evolving.
    Don't try to tell me that Boeing think that several logs tied together with twine
    is even remotely useful when designing the next generation of hyper-efficient
    airliner.\r\n\r\nAn A is A-shaped. That the 'pen' was responsible for the skeletal
    shape itself is like attributing the <em>content</em> of this post to the 'personal
    computer'. On one level, of course, it's perfectly true but not very meaningful.\r\n\r\nSo
    answer me this, which came first; writing or the pen?\r\n\r\nHrant, don't go!
    Surely not even you are saying that an A can be a different shape from an A. That's
    what an A is!"
  created: '2008-11-19 15:35:09'
- author:
    name: cumlivski
  body: 'Nick Job: I agree with you. Of course the medium is changing. Of course,
    that an A should not be A-shaped. But then, sudddenly, it takes some time to get,
    that it is an A. That`s the risk of experiment and up-to-date fashion.'
  created: '2008-11-19 16:01:58'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "If the original poster is still around, and looking for a commercially available
    serif face with the extreme weight contrast of the original sample, consider Freight
    Big.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.dardenstudio.com/typefaces/freight_big"
  created: '2008-11-19 16:09:47'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "All of that in a thread about a Modern Style \u2018A\u2019.\r\nYeah, you
    need a pen to draw it by hand.\r\nOtherwise you would\u2019t know what to do with
    the ruler."
  created: '2008-11-19 16:11:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, I haven't left; Graham -and Michael- have left for me.\r\n\r\n> the
    skeleton of an individual letter ... is arbitrary\r\n\r\nIn fact, there is no
    skeleton! The reason for this is simple: when it comes to the <em>purpose</em>
    of type (not necesarily the same thing as why a given person makes type), which
    is to be read, we don't read the black bodies, we read the contrast between black
    and white. A tool that marks the black imposes a dysfunctional design constraint:
    a relationship between the two sides of the black; the relationship should be
    only between the black and the white - we must design the border, not the body.
    This is true even if one is \"minding the white\" when making the black; the pointless
    constraint remains, no matter how hard we try. In the worst case -like a font
    made directly from calligraphy- it becomes a master-slave situation; in the best
    case it's still an unequal marriage, thus non-ideal.\r\n\r\nThe shedding of the
    illusional \"skeleton\" concept is the key that lets type be more than merely
    where it came from - which btw is not just the pen, but a host of other marking
    methods, some much older than the pen. The pen is simply what has come to look
    prettiest to the greatest number of people, becoming crushingly mainstream, and
    thus elevated to a mythical stature, holding us back. We are worshiping a corpse.\r\n\r\nSomebody
    who refuses to see this (which is not the same thing as making non-chirographic
    fonts - I myself am still stuck on the black!) is generally simply afraid of what
    it implies about his body of work, or maybe of what it implies about his adored
    teachers.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-19 17:43:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: Hrant, are you seriously suggesting that the traditional, received form of,
    for example, a letter A, is based on the remainder of the white space once it's
    been 'adulterated' by black? I always thought it was to do with 3 straight lines,
    to a greater or lesser degree. (I am open to being persuaded otherwise, by the
    way.) I'm not sure I warm to my methods of construction (whether or not they were
    influenced by the pen) being described as illusional (delusional?) but I do like
    your willingness to get out of the box that you perceive and to challenge the
    way people think if you sincerely think they've been hoodwinked, as long as it's
    not because you just don't like people, which is how it sometimes comes across
    to me at least.
  created: '2008-11-19 18:53:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I certainly agree that the \"A\" is received, perceived and generally rendered
    as being made of three lines. What I'm saying is that that's not how it's <em>used</em>
    by readers - reading -not creating- being the purpose. As a result, ideal type
    design does not see an \"A\" as being made of three lines (or any other fattened
    skeleton); it sees an \"A\" purely as a certain relationship of black and white,
    unfettered by an illusional metaphoric tool. Arguably punchcutters were doing
    this -to some extent, in practice- from day one, but designers who drew/painted
    shapes and then asked punchcutters to make them were generally throwing things
    off.\r\n\r\nOh, and I like people very much.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-19 19:25:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "I realise you must like people because you seem to really want to help them
    to read better/more easily. I'm not sure if your punchcutter argument holds much
    water. One can't help but think of the shape the ink makes before the space that
    it leaves (probably depends on the individual philosophy of the punchcutter him/herself).
    \r\n\r\nThinking about space as well as ink is the area of typeface design that
    is alien to me. Am I normal or does everyone think in equal measure about black
    and white? I know from my own experience (such as it is) that the black gets a
    whole lot more airtime than the white. Is there any mileage in designing a complete
    font without any black infilling so that the black and white are both white and
    therefore, in theory at least, get equal airtime during the design process?\r\n\r\nStop
    me when I start to talk garbage. I'm really thinking aloud."
  created: '2008-11-19 19:42:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It is indeed very difficult to see the black-white instead of just the black
    (or just the white). I know because I haven't managed it yet! In fact it scares
    me so much that I haven't tried hard enough yet. There might even be some human
    biological impediment that prevents it! The key might be a method that leads to
    abstraction, for example how in Legato Bloemsma conceptualized that \"twisting\"
    the inside whites would break the black's strangle-hold across letters, thus allowing
    glyphs to meld into words (actually, boumas) better. And this leads to a paradox
    inherent to type design*: when you consider that a font isn't the end-result,
    a font is a tool that leads to an end-result, you realize that no matter what
    ideology you use to make a font you <em>never</em> really see it anyway: you see
    individual glyphs, and sets of glyphs, but you can't see what it really is at
    once, or even what a font's user will end up setting (and then his reader seeing).\r\n\r\n*
    Which is absent in calligraphy and lettering.\r\n\r\nSo designing a font is an
    act of abstraction anyway. Not being able to see the black-white directly does
    not preclude approaching a certain fruitful ideal; an ideal that cannot be approached
    via black-centric design.\r\n\r\n> Is there any mileage in designing a\r\n> complete
    font without any black infilling\r\n\r\nDo you mean an outline font? In terms
    of reading that wouldn't work. But tellingly that's how we design fonts (at least
    mechanically) - we edit lines that separate black and white. Many chirographers
    think outline editing is a curse, and some of them (like G Noordzij, IIRC) have
    even tried to invent black-marking font editing systems. To me outline editing
    is a blessing, allowing for the final liberation of type, by helping us get over
    the black.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-19 20:18:05'
- author:
    name: abi
    picture: 111936
  body: "Hrant,\r\n\r\nI have read many of your posts about this topic before and
    usually I am quite the lurker but I thought to leave my two cents this time. I
    believe your characterization of calligraphy/writing based type design is overly
    simplified. As a note I honestly do think your continued arguments in favour of
    Bloemsma's typefaces and his approach are refreshing and will definitely prove
    quite fruitful. You speak of a different construction methodology that certainly
    deserves much study, but the array of letter constructions all take from the archetypal
    letter shapes but not necessarily the same proportions or weight/axis tendencies.
    But I don't think writing based techniques and the idea of black and white relationships
    is mutually exclusive as you make it out to be. \r\n\r\nI should point out that
    I am still in the very early stages of approaching type design and I decided to
    start in a way that made sense to me, which is to look at very traditional methodologies
    and past type design techniques. I believe that history informs much of my work
    as a graphic designer so I have felt it important to look at writing and the origins
    of writing (and writing tools) before looking at ways to break from those tools,
    or elements that can deviate from them. \r\n\r\nBut back to why I think your argument
    against writing models is overly simplified: calling writing based type design
    black-centric really does the methodology and practitioners a disservice, and
    this is mostly because what calligraphy/writing allows is a look at rhythm/spacing/texture
    and not merely the application of a black to a white surface. I believe that letterforms
    are important but they are not designed in isolated conditions, it is really the
    relationship between the letters that is paramount, and therefore the white space
    is an element that is enormously important in writing based designs. Writing is
    important as a way to study these black and white shapes and the many permutations
    that can come from a few simple tools. On a whole I think I believe I give the
    same amount of emphasis to the shapes of the white spaces (counters and the space
    between letters) and the black of the letter, but this is an obvious relation,
    because when you change one, you change the other. Writing based type design is
    not just tracing over some scans with beziers, I see type as a system of letters
    that translates into a groupings of letters (words) that form whole fields of
    texts (and this 'macro' arena is where a study of rhythm and texture is very important).
    \r\n\r\nAbove I have termed writing/calligraphy based type design as a methodology
    and it as a methodology/approach it should be able to exist alongside many other
    methodologies for type design and lettering. I just wanted to say that the issue
    may not be as 'black and white' as you make it out to be."
  created: '2008-11-19 23:11:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Abi, thank you for the detailed and reasoned response.\r\n\r\n> I think I
    believe I give the same amount of emphasis to the\r\n> shapes of the white spaces
    (counters and the space between\r\n> letters) and the black of the letter\r\n\r\nI
    just can't see how.\r\nI might be missing something - I just don't know what it
    might be.\r\nSometimes I can tell I'm missing something; here it just feels very
    solid.\r\n\r\nBut I do agree that it's not so clear cut; I talk of pure extremes
    which I know don't exist - what we make is always somewhere between extremes.
    Talking of the extremes is simply useful to abstract well about a topic.\r\n\r\nFor
    example, there's no such thing as pure reading. Any act of reading involves some
    attention spent merely gazing at the beauty of a page or even a single glyph.
    And I'm the first to admit that calligraphy is beautiful. One of the few fonts
    I've ever purchased is Ex Ponto. Mostly I'm interested in revealing the failings
    of something that's too often given mythical relevance; it's the grasping of failings
    that help us improve, help us right the balance. It's been four years since Legato,
    but we still haven't made anything like it. The balance is manifestly off.\r\n\r\nIn
    any case I am warmly grateful for any challenges to my ideas. Refuting them isn't
    the way forward, assimilating them into a larger view is the only way for me to
    grow. I argue not to overpower, but to catalyze.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-19 23:57:38'
- author:
    name: Graham McArthur
    picture: 109915
  body: "\"* Which is absent in calligraphy and lettering.\"\r\n\r\nHogwash\r\n\r\n\"
    Many chirographers think outline editing is a curse,\"\r\n\r\nI assume by chirographers
    you mean or include calligraphers, perhaps a few ignorant souls, but again: hogwash.\r\n\r\nThanks,
    Nick for your explanation as it reinforces what I was reading between the angst
    against the pen. As Michael tried to explain, calligraphy and contemporary calligraphy
    in particular have more in common with hrants ideas then he realises.\r\nThe major
    difference between us and hrant's 'ideal' is that we have not abandoned the pen,
    nor history as irrelevant. We also realise that rather than place restrictions
    to invention and creativity craft knowledge opens the doors to endless possibilities.
    We have also been playing with drawing outlines and counter spaces for centuries,
    this idea is not new or revolutionary.\r\n\r\nI believe that hrant's 'ideal' is
    misconceived and is the one that is extremely limiting and restricting:\r\n\"So
    designing a font is an act of abstraction anyway. Not being able to see the black-white
    directly does not preclude approaching a certain fruitful ideal; an ideal that
    cannot be approached via black-centric design.\"\r\n\r\nI agree with hrant when
    he says that designing a font is an act of abstraction. All lettering, no matter
    how it is made is a form of abstraction, or more correctly semi-abstraction as
    pure abstraction is non representational and therefore would leave no recognized
    glyph or letters and therefore completely defeat the purpose.\r\nYou do not have
    to denounce and abandon the pen or the 'skeleton' to draw outlines or achieve
    what hrant is trying to articulate.\r\nThe pen and the skeleton are restrictive
    only when married with a lack of understanding of the craft.\r\n\r\nOne last point
    that I know really raises the hackles of more than a few calligraphers; the very
    term chirography is an insult and a known insult. There are so called calligraphers
    with many years of practice who demonstrate a lack of understanding of their own
    craft, so its not surprising that many non calligraphers also remain ignorant.\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-20 00:15:28'
- author:
    name: Graham McArthur
    picture: 109915
  body: Great post abi
  created: '2008-11-20 00:21:52'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "Maybe I can create a font by dragging my index finger  through mud? Forget
    the pen.....J/K\r\nI acknowledge the past with a zeal, embrace the future with
    an open mind and look forward to see what is new."
  created: '2008-11-20 01:25:17'
- author:
    name: abi
    picture: 111936
  body: "Hrant,\r\n\r\nthanks for the thoughful and candid reply. perhaps sometime
    in the future I can make a showcase of some of the sketching techniques I have
    been taught and how they enable a look at the relationship between black and white
    as being intrinsic to how we work out ideas for typefaces."
  created: '2008-11-21 13:07:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "As I argued at length in the \"rule or law\" thread some time ago, historically
    printer's types have taken hand written letters as their point of departure, but
    modified them for greater readability. And by and large this continues to be the
    case. I think both that type has its origins in shapes created by a moving tool
    and that it selectively departs from these are valuable insights for creating
    type today. Not taking into account both aspects I think is limiting. \r\n\r\nSo
    I not in full agreement with either Hrant or Michael. But I have to say that Hrant,
    since he came back posting here, has mainly kept his strong opinions on topic,
    without resorting to personal attacks. I can't say the same for everyone in this
    thread. Dial back the personal attacks, please.\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-21 13:40:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> historically printer\u2019s types have taken hand written letters\r\n>
    as their point of departure, but modified them for greater\r\n> readability. And
    by and large this continues to be the case.\r\n\r\nIndeed. Retrofitting. Non-ideal.\r\nThe
    least I'm asking is: let's admit that's what it is.\r\n\r\nLike trying to kick
    an addiction, admission is the first step. I'm not asking anybody to go cold turkey.
    I don't think I can either. I had bacon this morning. Because I enjoy it. Not
    because I pretend lard is good for me.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-21 18:39:43'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hrant, I guess our disagreement is that I think that the moving front of
    the tool does add a lot of humanity and aesthetic value to letters. \r\n\r\nI
    recently started to learn Hebrew calligraphy, and was delighted to see how much
    the broad pen would do on its own to produce beautiful shapes. And I could see
    where it caused readability problems. But the point is that there is a lot of
    gain as well as problems in written shapes. \r\n\r\nSo I think just saying forget
    about written shapes is a mistake, because you lose something. And unlike you--at
    least in past comments--I don't think there's a great revolution in reading to
    be had by more radical departure from written shapes. I am looking just to better
    'micro-adjustment,' as Peter Enneson calls it, of weights, proportions, joins,
    spacing to improve text type. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-21 19:07:08'
date: '2008-11-15 11:31:58'
title: Serif

---
