---
author:
  name: gohebrew
  picture: 112525
body: "Can the kamatz katan, meteg, and shva-na be automatically inserted by a \"smart\"
  OpenType font?\r\n\r\nDavid and Raphael say not. Israel says yes. John Hudson thinks
  maybe. William just thinks. :) Davis starting to think yes, too.\r\n\r\nIs there
  any different between a kamatz katan, a chataf kamatz, and a chataf kamatz katan?\r\n\r\nRaphael
  says no. Israel says yes. Prof. Dotan wonders. David didn't comment.\r\n\r\nJoin
  the fun, and express your opinion. Loser buys lunch. (watch out, I'm hungry)"
comments:
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael: <cite>Yes, but that is my point. With the furtive patach, you can
    encode it (if people actually want it is another question), but I still don\u2019t
    see how you are going to even encode the kamatz katan. Even with our siddur we
    have made editorial decisions as to what is a kamatz katan or not based on various
    sources and changed our minds. How are you going to allow a person what to do?\r\n\r\nI
    always cite the easy example of the Hebrew word for afternoon which the first
    kamatz is katan according to sefardim and gadol according to ashkenazim (and that\u2019s
    an easy one). You have yet to address this problem.</cite>\r\n\r\n\r\ngohebrew:
    <cite>I would make all the different forms of kamataz katan. People can chose
    which glyph they want.\r\n\r\nChocalate for chocalate lovers; vanilla for vanilla
    lovers; and even strawberry for those daring type.\r\n\r\nIf a GSUB routine can
    be written whereby ordinary kamatzes will be selectively replaced with one form
    of kataz katan, then so it shall be.\r\n\r\nI then make three nearly identical
    versions of the font, each with a different default. If you pay extra, you get
    chocalate. If you pay extra, you get vanilla.\r\n\r\nAbout kamatz katan for Ashkenazim,
    I was told by Israel-based kollel Hemdat HaAretz (the halachic decider for the
    OU) that even for them it is an issue, just not in recognizable pronunciation.\r\n\r\nI
    think they mean on how it impacts the shva-na.</cite>\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-16 14:16:12'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "You are going to need more than 3 flavours of ice-cream.\r\n\r\nHemdat HaAretz
    is NOT the halachic decider for the OU. Please please please check such facts
    first.\r\n\r\nAnyway, I'll tell you what. Try it. Create a font that does what
    you want and see if you succeed. If you do, you are right, if not, I am. :-)"
  created: '2008-11-16 15:01:36'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "BTW, slightly off-topic but I get to show off. The new Koren Siddur is going
    to be launched at the OU convention next week in Jerusalem. I have used a kamatz
    katan, shva na, furtive patach and meteg throughout and it uses the new digitised
    Koren font for the Kriyot with perfectly automatically font-encoded taamey mikra
    for the leyning at the back.\r\n\r\nThe ARCs come back from the printers tomorrow."
  created: '2008-11-16 15:04:13'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: I am almost very sure that I went to ou.com, filled out an ask the rabbi form.
    Later http://eretzhemdah.org/qna.asp?PageId=3 sent me a reply on OU's behalf.
  created: '2008-11-16 17:06:45'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Yes, I confirmed it. It's their kollel of wise scholars.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.ou.org/torah/rebbe\r\n\r\nAsk
    the OU Vebbe Rebbe\r\n\r\n\r\nPlease Ask Your Question By Using This Link!!\r\n\r\nWho
    Will Answer My Question?\r\n\r\nOU's own staff of learned rabbis\r\nQuestions
    about kosher food and certification\r\n\r\nOU Departments\r\nInquiries related
    to an area of concern which can be directed to a relevant department: Community
    and Synagogue Services, the Institute For Public Affairs, NCSY, the National Jewish
    Council for the Disabled, Our Way for the Jewish Deaf, etc...\r\n \r\nBeth Din
    of America\r\nQueries in the realm of marriage, divorce and monetary disputes.\r\n\r\n\r\n<strong>Kollel
    Eretz Hemdah (Jerusalem)</strong><cite>\r\nQuestions regarding Jewish law, philosophy
    and Israel, in consultation with the Chief Rabbinate of Israel.</cite>\r\n\r\n\r\nRabbinical
    Council of America (RCA) Conversion Commission\r\nQuestions about conversion.\r\n\r\nRabbi
    Dr. Reuven P. Bulka\r\nof Congregation Machzikei Hadas in Ottowa, Ontario, Canada.\r\nIssues
    of personal sensitivity.  All questions and answers will be kept strictly confidentially
    \r\n    \r\nPuah Institute\r\nHalachic questions regarding fertility, niddah,
    pregnancy and related matters.  All questions and answer will be kept confidential.\r\n\r\nOther
    halachic or community authorities may sometimes be requested to field specific
    questions."
  created: '2008-11-16 17:16:55'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> I have used a kamatz katan, shva na, furtive patach and meteg throughout
    and it uses the new digitised Koren font for the Kriyot with perfectly automatically
    font-encoded taamey mikra for the leyning at the back.\r\n\r\nPlease post a few
    words with a kamatz katan, shva na, furtive patach and meteg.\r\n\r\nPlease post
    three verses of \"perfectly automatically font-encoded taamey mikra for the leyning\"
    for inspection.\r\n\r\nBut first wait for me to get out my loop."
  created: '2008-11-16 17:20:11'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "Not going to go into the structure of the OU. I think it's off-topic.\r\n\r\nHow
    would you deal with the word \u05E6\u05B8\u05D4\u05B1\u05E8\u05B8\u05D9\u05B4\u05DD?\r\n\r\nhow
    would you like me to post the taamey mikra?"
  created: '2008-11-16 19:00:53'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "Here is a page of the leyning demonstrating taamey mikra for an earlier draft:\r\n\r\nhttp://tinyurl.com/5kexx4\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-16 19:20:11'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Is there any different between a kamatz katan, a chataf kamatz, and a chataf
    kamatz katan?\r\n\r\n> Raphael says no. Israel says yes. Prof. Dotan wonders.
    David didn\u2019t comment.\r\n\r\nRaphael is right. About Prof. Dotan -- I Doubt
    It! You didn't understand him. \r\n\r\n\r\n> Can the kamatz katan, meteg, and
    shva-na be automatically inserted by a \u201Csmart\u201D OpenType font?\r\n\r\nYou
    can NOT do that till you'll solve ( I don't know how) the whole Halakha thing.
    Here's something new: The Yemenite tradition.\r\n\r\nDeuteronomy 1:3\r\n\r\nShay
    La'mora -- sheva Na!\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ShevaSL_5415.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\nYemenite
    chumash -- sheva Nach!\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Tem_4544.gif]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Tem1_6175.gif]\r\n\r\nDeuteronomy
    32:6\r\n\r\nDotan: \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Dotan_4400.gif]\r\n\r\nShay
    Lamorah (and see the note):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Shay32_4995.gif]\r\n\r\nYemenite:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Tem3_4595.gif]"
  created: '2008-11-16 19:34:44'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "\r\nEDIT: not Deuteronomy 1:3; Deuteronomy 1:27\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-16 19:53:45'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "\r\nRaphael,\r\n\r\n> Here is a page of the leyning demonstrating taamey
    mikra for an earlier draft:\r\n\r\nI didn't see your link... :) \r\n\r\nI see
    the sheva na; any text from the Bible is with cantillation? "
  created: '2008-11-20 16:55:25'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: No. Just the readings at the back of the siddur and the three paragraphs of
    the Shema.
  created: '2008-11-21 05:58:51'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael,\r\n\r\nDid you see the publisher Shay Lemorah's Chumash with the
    shvana marked.\r\n\r\n\r\nThis is from Vayikra - Lev.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/shvana-shay_6490.jpg]"
  created: '2008-11-21 06:55:48'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "my critique: \r\n1. putting a football over a Hebrew letter isn't very typographically
    aesthetic imho\r\n2. the chirik under the first lamed is too far to the firght.\r\n3.
    the shva doesn't sit correctly under the resh.\r\n4. The kadma over the nun needs
    to move to the left.\r\n5. the mercha under the chaf is too far to the right.\r\n6.
    The lower nikud in general are too close to the letters.\r\n7. the lower taamim
    have been lowered for some reason. It looks odd to me.\r\n8. The font needs to
    be kerned a little better. The vav and nun need to be closer together for example.\r\n\r\nnot
    exactly what I would call good typography, but that's just my opinion..."
  created: '2008-11-21 11:32:34'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "My intention was not to show you an example of good typography.\r\n\r\nYou
    are a very good typesetter, sensitive to the nuances in the example.\r\n\r\nI
    simply pointed out to you a grammatical issue: placement of a shvana symbol in
    Biblical text.\r\n\r\nAlthough the SLM typesetter was lacking, the custom font
    used has the nikkudot at the hieght of three levels, then the group of lower taamim
    at the middle horizontal height and finally the meteg starts from the lowest vertical
    height.\r\n\r\nDoes Koren use this three leveled system?\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-21 18:23:03'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "absolutely not. \r\n\r\nFirstly, I don't understand why the meteg is different
    from the other taamim.\r\n\r\nSecondly the position of the taamim in Koren is
    according to each taam but in principle it's not lower from the nikud and I am
    confused as to why to employ such a system.\r\n\r\nThe taamim are tertiary to
    the nikud and therefore they are often designed to be lighter than the nikud as
    in Koren, but why should they go off the baseline?\r\n\r\nSorry for being confused.
    I thought this was a typography forum not a grammar forum. I apologise for thinking
    that's why you posted it here.\r\n\r\nBut then again, I'm still confused, why
    are you showing this awful bit of typesetting on such a forum?"
  created: '2008-11-22 18:24:28'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Tyography forum - what made you think that?\r\n\r\nWe share recipees about
    making good techina here.\r\n\r\n(I make the very best techina- it's olive juice
    that's my secret, shh, don't tell anyone! Ask Natanyahu, he had some.)"
  created: '2008-11-23 03:43:53'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael,\r\n\r\nSo you hold that there are only nikkudot, which do not include
    metteg, and taamim, which do include metteg.\r\n\r\nThough the function of metteg
    with nikudot is different than metteg with taamim.\r\n\r\nAthough the metteg's
    graphical form is the same, their grammatical function differs.\r\n\r\nYou also
    think that Shai Lemora's symbol for shvana looks like a football.\r\nDo you think
    Kehot's small asterish looks like a hotdog, or is OK?\r\nDoes ArtScroll's rafe-like
    horizontal line look like a pickle? Sometimes over a vov or even a gimmel it is
    wider than them, like a deflated blimp.\r\nDo you really think bolding and/or
    enlargening the shva is better? At least, it only looks like an overweight shva."
  created: '2008-11-23 03:54:44'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "\r\nIsrael,\r\n\r\n> Athough the metteg\u2019s graphical form is the same,
    their grammatical function differs.\r\n\r\nYes (there's a thread... somewhere.....
    with sample from Kehot)\r\n\r\n> looks like a hotdog, or is OK?\r\n\r\nIt's OK
    if the hotdog is Hebrew National."
  created: '2008-11-23 08:38:48'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Chassidim do not eat HN.\r\n\r\nIs HN O-U?\r\n\r\nWhen I was a kid, HN had
    no kosher supervision, except for the word \"kosher\" in Hebrew.\r\n\r\nEven when
    I was a teen. Twenties. Then, I became Chassidic.\r\n\r\nI heard HN is now O-U."
  created: '2008-11-23 15:42:39'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "personally I think the asterisk is also very tacky but not as tacky as a
    football.\r\n\r\nArtscroll's use of a rafe is better although of course incorrect
    since a rafe has a different meaning, but personally that doesn't bother me. The
    problem with the rafe is that it gets in the way of taamey mikra.\r\n\r\nMaking
    the shva larger is pretty ugly, however it became popular after making the kamatz
    katan larger too. It works graphically much better than a football or an asterisk.\r\n\r\nIf
    there are no taamim, then a rafe also works graphically because a horizontal line
    fits with the letters (eg a patach).\r\n\r\nRegarding the meteg. There is no meteg
    in nikud. However, traditionally just as Artscroll \"incorrectly\" use a rafe
    to indicate a shva na, the meteg was used \"incorrectly\" to indicate a mileil.\r\n\r\nIt's
    like Rinat Yisrael who use an ole to indicate a mileil on commonly mispronounced
    words or a zarka for milra. It doesn't turn the taamim into nikud!\r\n\r\nAlso
    you don't address the bizarre vertical placement of the taamim."
  created: '2008-11-24 06:12:18'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I think the use of a rafe horizontal bar is not proper, because letters have
    different widths, from narrow to wide.\r\n\r\nIf the rafe bar is one size fits
    all, over narrow letters its too wide, and over wide letters its too narrow.\r\n\r\nUsing
    a round symbol like an asterisk is suitable for different widths.\r\n\r\nYour
    rejecting the Kehot asterisk or Shay Kemora's \"football\" ib favor of ArtScroll's
    rafe symbol, or the over emphasized extra bold shva is simply an issue of taam
    verayach - personal preference, with no logic. I like it this way; I don't like
    it the other way.\r\n\r\nSuch lack of logic and reason is not convincing at all.\r\n\r\nFor
    example, the elongated kamatz katan is hardly similar in bold emplasis like the
    highlighted shva. Are you a graphic artist? \r\n\r\nThe one is weighted like the
    other nikkud, but shaped differently. The other is very very differently that
    any other nikkud, and draws way too much attention to itself.\r\n\r\nThe small
    asterisk doesn't fraw any extra attention. Furthermore, according to the Minchat
    Shai's definition of shvana, it never occurs when there is a upper taam in its
    place. I checked.\r\n\r\nNow, this seems to imply that there is a relationship
    between thr tules of shvana and the taamim, even though we don't know what is
    yet.\r\n\r\nI think Rabbi Shmuel Yehuda Winefeld of Shay Lemora chose the football=like
    asterisk inside a circle to distinguish his Minchat Shai-based shvana symbol from
    Kehot's Rav Henna (Hanau)'s asterisk shvana symbol.\r\n\r\nSo, in conclusion,
    ArtScroll's rafe symbol is illogical while Kehot's asterisk symbol is not.\r\n\r\nIn
    my view as a professional graphic artist, there is nothing wrong with the current
    depiction of the kamatz katan.\r\n\r\nRegarding the meteg's widespread usage in
    non-taamim text, \"go fight city hall\" if you think that it will change. It ain't
    gonna happen."
  created: '2008-11-24 06:54:50'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "<cite>I think the use of a rafe horizontal bar is not proper, because letters
    have different widths, from narrow to wide.\r\n\r\nIf the rafe bar is one size
    fits all, over narrow letters its too wide, and over wide letters its too narrow.\r\n\r\nUsing
    a round symbol like an asterisk is suitable for different widths.</cite>\r\n\r\nokay,
    I see your logic, but then again, do you make the patach longer or shorter depending
    on the letter?\r\n\r\n<cite>\r\nYour rejecting the Kehot asterisk or Shay Kemora\u2019s
    \u201Cfootball\u201D ib favor of ArtScroll\u2019s rafe symbol, or the over emphasized
    extra bold shva is simply an issue of taam verayach - personal preference, with
    no logic. I like it this way; I don\u2019t like it the other way.\r\n\r\nSuch
    lack of logic and reason is not convincing at all.\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nI gave my
    opinion. I gave my logic. Why is my logic lacking. You don't have to agree. That's
    okay. But I would point out that most siddurim that I've seen in Israel that mark
    the shva na do so by making it larger thus kind of creating a standard. The asterisk
    is normally used to indicate a note and therefore I find it somewhat disturbing
    in it's position. The football is just daft.\r\n\r\n<cite>For example, the elongated
    kamatz katan is hardly similar in bold emplasis like the highlighted shva. Are
    you a graphic artist? </cite>\r\n\r\nIsn't it? I think it is. Are you a typographer?
    typesetter? doctor? lawyer? I'm confused. Your thoughts are all over the place
    and I don't understand what you are saying.\r\n\r\n<cite>The one is weighted like
    the other nikkud, but shaped differently. The other is very very differently that
    any other nikkud, and draws way too much attention to itself.</cite>\r\n\r\nHuh?
    which one is what? Which one draws too much attention? please clarify this point
    because I think this is interesting.\r\n\r\n<cite>The small asterisk doesn\u2019t
    fraw any extra attention. Furthermore, according to the Minchat Shai\u2019s definition
    of shvana, it never occurs when there is a upper taam in its place. I checked.\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nDoesn't
    it? Who says? I personally find it extremely distracting. It's a personal thing.\r\n\r\n<cite>Now,
    this seems to imply that there is a relationship between thr tules of shvana and
    the taamim, even though we don\u2019t know what is yet.</cite>\r\n\r\nhuh? Again
    I'm lost. To what are you referring?\r\n\r\n<cite>I think Rabbi Shmuel Yehuda
    Winefeld of Shay Lemora chose the football=like asterisk inside a circle to distinguish
    his Minchat Shai-based shvana symbol from Kehot\u2019s Rav Henna (Hanau)\u2019s
    asterisk shvana symbol.</cite>\r\n\r\nwhy? if the asterisk was so good, why create
    yet another symbol? Did Chabad copyright the asterisk?\r\n\r\n<cite>So, in conclusion,
    ArtScroll\u2019s rafe symbol is illogical while Kehot\u2019s asterisk symbol is
    not.</cite>\r\n\r\nHey, I got 100% in logic at University and I'm completely failing
    to see the logic of yours. Both symbols have other purposes. The asterisk is probably
    more well-known than that of the rafe. Also the rafe is actually a taam whereas
    the asterisk has no basis in Bible typography. I think according to that logic,
    the rafe is far superior choice than that of an asterisk. But that's just my logic.\r\n\r\n<cite>In
    my view as a professional graphic artist, there is nothing wrong with the current
    depiction of the kamatz katan.</cite>\r\n\r\nThank G-d. I will inform typesetters
    all over the world that we have Scott's approval on the symbol that has been used
    now in hundreds of thousands of siddur world-wide for over 50 years. People will
    be so relieved.\r\n\r\n<cite>Regarding the meteg\u2019s widespread usage in non-taamim
    text, \u201Cgo fight city hall\u201D if you think that it will change. It ain\u2019t
    gonna happen.</cite>\r\n\r\nHuh? What are you talking about. I have no objection
    to the meteg being used at all. I had it added to the new Koren Siddur that I
    produced. I think it's an excellent way of indicated mileil. Why would I \"fight
    city hall\".\r\n\r\nI just pointed out that it isn't a nikud. The same way that
    the zarka and ole that is used by Rinat Yisrael are not nikud either. They are
    taamey mikra. They are used \"incorrectly\" in both instances, but who cares.
    They solve a problem very nicely. \r\n"
  created: '2008-11-24 08:39:22'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "1. Meteg & Modern Hebrew -- Dictionary: Milel[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Dict_6441.gif]\r\n\r\n2.
    Meteg & Modern Hebrew -- Grammar books (this one is Milra):[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Shavu_4986.gif]\r\n\r\nAnd
    That's It! No poems, novels, magazines....!!!\r\n\r\n3. > Furthermore, according
    to the Minchat Shai\u2019s definition of shvana, it never occurs when there is
    a upper taam in its place. I checked.\r\n\r\nWhere's that definition? page?  \r\nShay
    La'morah -- Numbers 21: \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ShayA_6447.gif]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ShayB_5929.gif]"
  created: '2008-11-25 19:50:03'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David, \r\n\r\nWhat are you saying here?\r\n\r\n>>> Furthermore, according
    to the Minchat Shai\u2019s definition of shvana, it never occurs when there is
    a upper taam in its place. I checked.\r\n\r\n> Where\u2019s that definition? page?\r\n>
    Shay La\u2019morah \u2014 Numbers 21:\r\n\r\n\r\nYour examples support this. They
    of appear above and below other letters in the verb, but NOT NEVER, NO NO NEVER,
    above the same letter with an upper taam!"
  created: '2008-11-25 21:31:36'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Israel,\r\n\r\nI'm saying:\r\n\r\n > but NOT NEVER...\r\n1.  double negative
    is positive\r\n\r\n > above the same letter with an upper taam!\r\n2. every week
    or two you're changing your questions. now is \"above the same letter\".  well,
    not just sheva but also chataf (with lower or upper taam); because they can't
    \"hold\",\"carry\"  the melody. but this is 100% pure cantillation grammar, and
    no point to talk about that right now.\r\n\r\n3 .> according to the Minchat Shai\u2019s
    definition of shvana\r\nagain, where\u2019s that definition? page?\r\n\r\n4. the
    football thing\r\nWinefeld is from Jerusalem; and Jerusalem is yellow; you know...Uri
    Malmilian, Dani Noyman...   :^) \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-25 22:38:29'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nI only appear to be saying:\r\n\r\n1. Poetic license: not be
    taken literally. (I was quoting Shirley Temple. Anyway, it's not \"no never\"
    but: \"no, no, never\" - it's a triple nagative: still negative!)\r\n\r\n2. hmmm.
    From day one, I'm suggesting this (<cite><strong>\"A shvana symbol never occus
    above a letter that has an upper taam\"</strong>, never!</cite>).\r\nCurrently,
    I'm weak in \"cantillation grammar\" and its melody. But, watch out, David.\r\n\r\n3.
    Evidence is from Shay Lemora's relatively recent chumash, which R' Winefeld suggesats
    is based upon Minchat Shai's rules.\r\n\r\n4. Only Winefeld is Chassidic, and
    wears a yellow frock coat on the Sabbath; he's yellow (and never served in the
    IDF, those chassidim. The others were in the IDF; they're not yellow. \r\n\r\nBut
    they all eat 'yerushalmi kugel' - sweet baked spaghetti cakes, even if its not
    the Sabbath. Just becuz it's yummy!\r\n\r\nHave you ever tasted some? Bet ya can't
    eat one!"
  created: '2008-11-26 03:03:17'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nFrom studying patterns, I noticed that whenever the second
    letter was a shva, following a hei hayedi'ah, a hei with a patach, then the shva
    of the second letter was always na and not nach.\r\n\r\nIn your two examples,
    you see that too.\r\n\r\nI posted other examples.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/et_habracha_shvana_6263.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/samples_ha_shvana_4271.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
    am certain that there is a different grammatical rule that these examples fall
    under.\r\n\r\nBut, remember, David, I am seeking to define context based rules.
    At first, Prof. Dotan got emotional, and insisted that this was impossible. Then,
    he though out it for a long time, and concluded it was possible.\r\n\r\nWhen I
    asked R' Rabin in Toronto, he though long and hard about this, and concluded that
    it would take a lot of \"sorting out\", but it was in deed possible. But according
    Rav Henna (Hanau), it was most difficult, but was also possible.\r\n\r\nI think
    the key lies in old Kehot prayerbook which provides over a thousand examples of
    Rav Henna's system, and Shay Lemora's books which provides over a thousand examples
    of Minchat Shai's system.\r\n\r\nWhere would I best read and analyze the significance
    of the seguence of the nikkud, and how one nikkud which precedes another nikkud
    'influences' it. Where is the inter-relationship of different nikkud discussed?\r\n\r\nIn
    a different type of thought, we see that each taam has a dual function in (a)
    cantillation grammar and (b) melody. Where is it discussed the interelationship
    between these two factors and each kind of taam?\r\n\r\nAnd where is each kind
    of taam appearing together with each kind of nikkud discussed?"
  created: '2008-11-26 03:26:42'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "Okay, let's just say, just for fun, that it was possible to encode it into
    a font. So you spend 100s of hours researching it (you must have spent that easily
    on these forums), you spend 100s if not 1000s of hours programming into a font.
    \r\n\r\nNow tell me, after all that R&D how much you going to sell the font for?
    $50? $5,000? Just curious to know if you've thought this through to the business
    side. I certainly wouln't spend all that money on a typeface. It would cheaper
    for me to hire a proofreader..."
  created: '2008-11-26 06:24:17'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael,\r\n\r\nI'm a BT. If I thought only practical 'bout things, like
    money, I'd be in California some place, with more money to \"piss off\", and a
    few girl friends to... um.... hmmm.\r\n\r\nBut at age 22 or 23, I changed, and
    became a Chabadnik.\r\n\r\nI gave up a scholarship at Spertus College (they thought
    I'd be the next Elie Wiesel), a gifted sports car, and a stipend to go out with
    girls every week. Plus I'd be invited for Shabbat every week by a dozen Conservatives.
    All they wanted in return to stay from those \"stinky Lubavs\".\r\n\r\nPretty
    good deal, huh?\r\n\r\nBut, I must have been really dumb. I picked those \"stinky
    Lubavs\". I ended going to yeshiva for years, getting married, having 8 kids,
    and the grandkids keep popping out...\r\n\r\nI learned type design after a rav
    told me to stay away from safrut (because of my being left-handed, with strength
    in my right).\r\n\r\nNow, I graduated to master OpenType thanks to Diane Collier
    and John Hudson. With a little more help from my friends (Rabbi Rabin, Prof. Dotan,
    David Hanuel, and others), I'll get this shvana, kamatz katan, meteg stuff mastered
    too (G-d made these things to figure out and master)...\r\n\r\nMoney is not my
    motivation. \r\n\r\nA person needs money to live. But living is not for money.
    It's only to make a living.\r\n\r\nMy goal is restore Jewish understanding of
    this grammar stuff to where it was before there were maskilim, and Jewish people
    began to lose knowledge of it, like today when 99.9% don't know the grammar of
    their own language.\r\n\r\nI will spend less than a 1,000 hours researching it,
    and less than a hundred hours programming it. OpenType/Volt is brain intersive,
    not heavy in time consumtion - that's why I think you made a big mistake picking
    Tvika.)\r\n\r\nMy goal anyway is to earn money not from this mainly, but from
    other ventures, as seen as www.gotalmud.org and www.gohebrew.com.\r\n\r\n<cite>[Btw,
    \"harbs\" disappointed me a great deal. You made him out to be really great, but
    he seems at best run of the mill - I would not buy anything from PrintIsrael.
    I see that www.fontworld.com is a much better source. Nothing Harbs claimed could
    be substantiated. Also, Kesofsky knows of your work and talents, and respects
    you highly.]</cite>"
  created: '2008-11-26 07:41:52'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "Re making money. Okay. Cool in fact. Not sure if creating a grammar-correct
    font will increase understanding but I don't know if that's important.\r\n\r\nRe
    Tzvika. Why was he a mistake. He drew Koren perfectly. The font is stunning on
    screen and even more so when printed. Tzvika didn't program it in Volt, he just
    drew the font. I have my own programmer for the programming. \r\n\r\nRe Harbs.
    Sorry it didn't work out for you. He has been absolutely invaluable to my work
    and has given hundreds of hours of help to me as well as the few scripts that
    I've commissioned from him to make our Siddur and Tanakh projects work. He has
    come through for me time and time again.\r\n\r\nRe Fontworld. Great. I'm glad
    you have a source that works for you.\r\n\r\nRe Kesofsky. Thanks for the compliment.
    May I ask who he is?"
  created: '2008-11-26 12:08:02'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Israel,\r\n\r\n\r\n> From studying patterns,\r\n\r\n I'm studying patterns;
    end of the week my quilt is ready.\r\n\r\n> 3. Evidence is from Shay Lemora\u2019s\r\n\r\nEvidence?
    are you writing a novel of mystery?  CSI? \r\n\r\n4 months -- soon 5 -- and the
    subject is the same: sheva; you have one book and a half -- Seow + Chomsky;   and
    you want to \"restore Jewish understanding of this grammar stuff... when 99.9%
    don\u2019t know the grammar of their own language.\" ?\r\nBy the time that you're
    done with the vowels (1 vowel = 5 months) I'm going to write 7 books.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-27 03:40:27'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\n> I\u2019m going to write 7 books.\r\n\r\nWhere can I get them?
    BandN.com? half.com? Amazon...\r\n\r\n> Shay Lemora\r\n\r\nI refuse to a part
    of your making fun of R' S.Y.W. He's a fellow Lubavtcher. Have respect. Btw, are
    you his age?\r\n\r\n> end of the week my quilt is ready\r\n\r\nReady? Where it's
    going? I thought in California, they banned quilts when Reagan was governor.\r\n\r\nWhere
    in sunny Calif. are you? Smoggy LA, or foggy SF, or Apple Cupertino? I grew up
    in Santa Barbara when it was really an old fashioned town. Had Split Pea soup
    in Buelton before I saw a piece of pork winking at me.\r\n\r\nDid you know pig
    tail's will go counter-clockwise after moshiach arrives?"
  created: '2008-11-27 06:42:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Raphael: <em>putting a football over a Hebrew letter isn\u2019t very typographically
    aesthetic</em>\r\n\r\nGoal!"
  created: '2008-11-27 13:34:34'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Does Winefeld's football have pig skin? Maybe, someone should tell him that
    it's not kosher. \r\n\r\nWell, if it has the Rabinute hechsher maybe it's kosher.
    Just for Rav Landau, it's not kosher."
  created: '2008-11-28 04:40:08'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: er, not to be too pedantic, but the only prohibition when it comes to pigs
    is eating them... nothing wrong with a pig-skin football.
  created: '2008-11-28 10:09:06'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "did you see my pig-skin shoes, suit, or piggy pets?\r\n\r\nthey're so cute.
    how could you eat 'em?\r\n\r\noink-oink.\r\n\r\ndid you hear the news? rabbi raphael
    saves rabbi winefeld's pig-skin football?\r\n\r\n\"it's kosher, i say\" declares
    raphael. \"i don't care what those heredim say.\"\r\n\r\nyes, raphael takes on
    benei brak.\r\n\r\n\"10% off every koren bible, if you shout out loud on rabbi
    akiva street that pig-skin footballs are kosher. yes, they are.\"\r\n\r\ngreat
    marketing trick, raphael.\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-28 11:37:28'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "I'm confused. Why are you being so rude to me. Was I rude to you?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-30 05:46:53'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I'm sorry. I did not think I was being rude. I only respect you, and value
    your comments, though I disagree with some.\r\n\r\nI believe if placement of shvana,
    kamatz katan, and maybe even meteg, is automatic, then there is hope that knowledge
    and use of it will increase a lot.\r\n\r\nDo I lme my cool if David makes fun
    of me. No. So, don't over-sensitive.\r\n\r\nAfter what happened in India, people
    should feel hurt by others, or feel like getting upset at somebody else.\r\n\r\nWe
    have enough enemies."
  created: '2008-11-30 08:41:51'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "<cite>I believe if placement of shvana, kamatz katan, and maybe even meteg,
    is automatic, then there is hope that knowledge and use of it will increase a
    lot.</cite>\r\n\r\nWe just launched the new Koren Siddur at the OU convention.
    It was very interesting. There must have 200-300 men on shul on shabbat. A lot
    of black hats. A lot of Rabbis from America. \r\n\r\nYou know what? Despite the
    fact that they were using a siddur which had a shva na and a meteg (I'm ignoring
    the kamatz katan because this crowd didn't do Israeli pronunciation), the ba'aley
    tfilla who were a combination of prominent Rabbis and Chazanim still managed to
    mispronounce every word. Even the ba'al koreh was awful and not a single person
    corrected him.\r\n\r\nAll the siddurim put in a meteg, Artscroll has a very prominent
    line and some siddurim have footballs, yet nobody notices. I just wonder if literally
    millions of siddurim mark this already (some for over 100 years) but this has
    had no impact on the supposedly knowledgeable public..."
  created: '2008-11-30 13:44:53'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Just out of curiousity, Raphael, how were they \"mispronouncing\" the prayers?
    I put that in quotes because according to the essay by William Chomsky on the
    shva that came up in these discussions, it is very questionable whether the \"correct
    pronunciation\" was ever correct. He says that historically the current views
    on the correct places to pronounce the shva have their origin in the views of
    David Kimchi, also known as RaDaK. But if I read him rightly--and I am a novice
    at this--these were conjectural attempts to make sense of the Tiberian system
    of nikkud, and are of doubtful value. \r\n\r\nHe says that within living memory
    both Ashkenazi and Sfaradi speakers of Hebrew have followed much simpler spoken
    rules. These have been: 1. Pronounce a shva if it is under a prepositional prefix
    or a conjunctive vav. 2. Pronounce it if it is under the first letter, and the
    first letter is a 'liquid consonant'--yod, mem, nun, lamed, and resh. 3. It is
    the second of two successive shvas. (I suppose the rule about two successive letters,
    eg hallelujah, applies also.)   \r\n\r\nSo, for example in k'tana and g'dola (little
    and big, feminine) the shva at the beginning is a shva nach, contrary to the 'right'
    rules which say that it is sounded. \r\n\r\nSo if ignoring the supposed 'right'
    rules for the shva na is all they are doing 'wrong' my feeling is: \"if this is
    wrong, I don't wanna be right\", to paraphrase a country song. "
  created: '2008-11-30 15:57:39'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael,\r\n\r\nAlthough the OU has ascended in broad respectabilty among
    heredim in the USA, the ignorance about even basic issues is still widespread,
    evcen among those dress like heredim.\r\n\r\nThis only proofs the desperate need
    to increase awareness and educate.\r\n\r\nI believe an automatic feature will
    increase awareness and educate. A teacher simply applies GHB FrankReuhl A to show
    before, and then GHB FrankReuhl B for after. Then, he or she explains the difference.
    \r\n\r\nI believe in a generation or two, things will improve."
  created: '2008-11-30 16:23:18'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "Aha! you assume that the teacher will teach this? Okay, let's go with that.
    How does programming this into a font going to translate to a Cheder Teacher a)
    using the font, b) understanding that it exists in the font and c) teach this?
    \r\n\r\nAlso, regarding the \"fact\" that a taam never falls on a shva na. Well
    the tlisha ktana, being a prepositive taam will fall on it regularly whenever
    you have a word which starts with a shva. Also you will face collision problems
    in many faces with a lamed shva combination."
  created: '2008-12-01 06:14:09'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "The last place is the heredim cheder.\r\n\r\nmy guess is that reform conservative
    and christian bible schools are first.\r\nthen after a few years, progressive
    orthodox schools will come around.\r\nthe heredim will be last, if ever.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nabout
    the tlisha ktana, as you say, no shay lmora shvana symbol collided. please quote
    one place.\r\n\r\nif it does, it's easy to program a gpos for thatcombination,
    if it really exists."
  created: '2008-12-01 07:08:03'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "many people think half empty.\r\nit'll never work.\r\nvery neative.\r\n\r\ni
    think half full.\r\nit might work.\r\nvery positive.\r\n\r\nget it?"
  created: '2008-12-01 07:10:34'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "Re collisions. Okay. Just thought about it off the top of my head. \r\n\r\nRe
    empty. Okay. It might. Not arguing that. Still don't get the point of it, but
    that's just me :-)\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-01 18:30:05'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "@ Telishah: This is Telishah Gedolah and not Ketanah. \r\n\r\nWhen the stress
    is on the first syllable, you're going to see only one telishah (short words--
    two letters); when the stress is on the second syllable (red arrow), then a second
    telishah gedolah is above the accented letter. However, this is an aid; to help
    the reader;  \r\n there's always a second telisha with any word with sheva na,
    or chataf; that said, sheva na, or chataf can't \"hold\" the melody.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Telisha_4728.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\n@
    Shay La'morah: we said million times -- Weinfeld  does not mark every sheva na!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-01 18:39:05'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: Oops. you are quite right. Of course I meant tlisha gdola. I was very tired
    when I wrote that.
  created: '2008-12-02 06:07:20'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Most everybody places a graphic symbol over a shvana in the middle of a word.
    Hardly nobody these days marks the first letter which has a shva.\r\n\r\nThe issue
    of collision ONLY pertains to a shvana in the middle of a word.\r\n\r\nPlease,
    David, cite a single example. Just one.\r\n\r\n18 million dollars in a golden
    poot. Yes, it could be yours. Or mie. Who gets it? Mr. Money Bags wants to know.
    Plus I'll pizza (he he)."
  created: '2008-12-02 06:16:55'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: Raphael, you could be in on the bet, too. But I'm hungry.
  created: '2008-12-02 06:18:00'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "No problem Raphael :)\r\n\r\n\r\nIsrael,\r\n\r\n> Please, David, cite a single
    example. Just one.\r\n\r\none example to show what? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-02 07:15:08'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "Israel,\r\n\r\nYou are correct that most people don't indicate the shva na
    at the beginning of the word and for that reason you were convinced that the shva
    at the beginning of the word is a shva nach!\r\n\r\nIn Koren, you will be pleased
    to know, we indicate the shva na at the beginning of the word.\r\n\r\nI don't
    know if I accept your comment of:\r\n\r\n<cite>Most everybody places a graphic
    symbol over a shvana in the middle of a word. </cite>\r\n\r\nI am pretty sure
    that if I went into a Jewish Book shop in the neighbourhood, I'll find ten times
    more siddurim with a larger shva as a shva na than a rafe or football on top.
    Heck, I don't even have to leave the office... my boss has a nice collection of
    siddurim and... yep they all have larger shvas. No footballs, no rafes, no stars.\r\n\r\nYes
    Artscroll puts a rafe. Chabad puts stars or footballs (don't remember which was
    which), but that's really a minority when you come to Israel."
  created: '2008-12-02 07:22:36'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Raphael, I would be interested in your view of William Chomsky's discussion
    of the shva. Perhaps his view that spoken Hebrew is really more accurate is irrelevant
    for siddurim because there is a tradition since 12th century of influence the
    views of Kimchi, which would put the shva na where Chomsky would not. So the tradition,
    though more recent as Jewish history goes, rules. Is that your view?
  created: '2008-12-02 15:01:47'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Bill -- ohh I'm sorry... I didn't post  about Chomsky & sheva :^) ; there're
    problems with his article --my opinion, of course; but I'll post about that and
    other issues.   \r\n(there's<a href=\"http://www.magnespress.co.il/website_en/index.asp?id=3095\">
    a new title</a> about phonetics, pronunciation, spoken Hebrew -- if I have it
    today or tomorrow I'll add it to the post; if not -- next time)\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-02 16:37:30'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "William,\r\n\r\nI'm certainly no expert, but what our Rabbinical Grammarians
    say is that the pronunciation of the Hebrew in the siddur should reflect the period
    that the prayer was said. So for example, in Koren, the priestly blessing is Ye-va-rekh-kha
    (ie shva nach on 3rd syllable) and not Ye-va-re-khe-kha (ie shva na) as is in
    siddurim such as the Artscroll.\r\n\r\n\r\nUnfortunately I have the luxury of
    an extremely professional staff whom I trust implicity and therefore don't have
    to learn too much grammar (I just ask them what to put where :-) ) so I don't
    really know much more than this.\r\n\r\nThat doesn't sound very professional I
    know, but I can certainly tell you how much I kerned the nun and yud :-)"
  created: '2008-12-02 17:56:37'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'It looks like this Hebrew pronunciation is a giant detective puzzle that
    nobody can quite figure out--something like the rest of life :) '
  created: '2008-12-02 21:12:21'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "\u05DC\u05D3\u05E2\u05EA\u05D9 \u05E9\u05D5\u05D0 \u05E0\u05E2 \u05D5\u05E0\u05D7
    \u05D5\u05D3\u05D2\u05E9 \u05D7\u05D6\u05E7 \u05D0\u05E4\u05E9\u05E8 \u05DC\u05EA\u05DB\u05E0\u05EA
    \u05D1\u05E4\u05D5\u05E0\u05D8 \u05D1\u05E4\u05E9\u05D8\u05D5\u05EA\r\n\u05DE\u05D4
    \u05E9\u05E0\u05D5\u05D2\u05E2 \u05E0\u05E0\u05D9\u05D7 \u05DC\u05E7\u05DE\u05E5
    \u05E7\u05D8\u05DF \u05D9\u05E9 \u05D1\u05E2\u05D9\u05D4\r\n\u05D0\u05DC\u05D5
    \u05DE\u05D9\u05DC\u05D9\u05DD \u05E9\u05E6\u05E8\u05D9\u05DA \u05E4\u05E9\u05D5\u05D8
    \u05DC\u05D4\u05DB\u05D9\u05E8\r\n\u05DE\u05D9 \u05E9\u05D3\u05D5\u05D1\u05E8
    \u05E2\u05D1\u05E8\u05D9\u05EA \u05D9\u05E7\u05DC \u05E2\u05DC\u05D9\u05D5 \u05D4\u05DE\u05DC\u05D0\u05DB\u05D4\r\n\u05E2\"\u05E4
    \u05E8\u05D5\u05D1 \u05D0\u05DC\u05D5 \u05DE\u05D9\u05DC\u05D9\u05DD \u05E9\u05DE\u05E0\u05D5\u05E7\u05D3\u05D9\u05DD
    \u05D1\u05E7\u05DE\u05E5 \u05D5\u05D2\u05DD \u05DE\u05D1\u05D8\u05D0\u05D9\u05DD
    \u05D0\u05EA \u05D4\u05DE\u05D9\u05DC\u05D4 \u05DB\u05E7\u05DE\u05E5 \u05DB\u05DE\u05D5
    '\u05D0\u05E0\u05D9\u05D4' \u05DC\u05DE\u05E9\u05DC\r\n\u05D1\u05E2\u05D1\u05E8\u05D9\u05EA
    \u05D4\u05DE\u05D3\u05D5\u05D1\u05E8\u05EA \u05DE\u05D1\u05D8\u05D0\u05D9\u05DD
    \u05E7\u05DE\u05E5 \u05DB\u05E4\u05EA\u05D7\r\n\u05DE\u05D4 \u05E9\u05E0\u05D5\u05D2\u05E2
    \u05DC\u05DE\u05EA\u05D2 \u05D2\u05DD \u05DB\u05DE\u05E2\u05D8 \u05D5\u05D0\u05D9
    \u05D0\u05E4\u05E9\u05E8\r\n\r\n\r\n\u05E9\u05D5\u05D5\u05D0 \u05E0\u05D7 \u05D5\u05E9\u05D5\u05D0
    \u05E0\u05E2\r\n\u05D9\u05E9\u05E0\u05DD 5 \u05DB\u05DC\u05DC\u05D9\u05DD \u05DC\u05E9\u05D5\u05D5\u05D0
    \u05D1\u05E0\u05D9\u05E7\u05D5\u05D3 \u05D55 \u05D1\u05D8\u05E2\u05DE\u05D9\u05DD\r\n\u05D4\u05E4\u05D5\u05E0\u05D8
    \u05D0\u05D9\u05E0\u05D5 \u05E6\u05E8\u05D9\u05DA \u05D0\u05DC\u05D0 \u05E8\u05E7
    \u05DC\u05D1\u05D3\u05D5\u05E7 \u05D0\u05EA \u05DE\u05E7\u05E8\u05D9 \u05D4\u05E9\u05D5\u05D0
    \u05E0\u05D7\r\n\r\n\u05E9\u05D5\u05D5\u05D0 \u05D1\u05E8\u05D0\u05E9 \u05DE\u05D9\u05DC\u05D4
    \u05D4\u05D9\u05D0 \u05EA\u05DE\u05D9\u05D3 \u05E0\u05E2 \u05D1\u05E1\u05D5\u05E3
    \u05DE\u05D9\u05DC\u05D4 \u05D4\u05D9\u05D0 \u05EA\u05DE\u05D9\u05D3 \u05E0\u05D7\r\n\u05E9\u05E0\u05D9
    \u05E9\u05D5\u05D5\u05D0\u05D9\u05DD \u05E8\u05E6\u05D5\u05E4\u05D9\u05DD \u05D4\u05E8\u05D0\u05E9\u05D5\u05DF
    \u05E0\u05E2 \u05D5\u05D4\u05E9\u05E0\u05D9 \u05E0\u05D7\r\n\u05E9\u05D5\u05D5\u05D0
    \u05D0\u05D7\u05E8\u05D9 \u05EA\u05E0\u05D5\u05E2\u05D4 \u05D2\u05D3\u05D5\u05DC\u05D4
    \u05DB\u05DE\u05D5 \u05E7\u05DE\u05E5 \u05D4\u05E9\u05D5\u05D5\u05E2 \u05EA\u05DE\u05D9\u05D3
    \u05E0\u05E2 \u05D0\u05D7\u05E8\u05D9 \u05EA\u05E0\u05D5\u05E2\u05D4 \u05E7\u05D8\u05E0\u05D4
    \u05D4\u05D5\u05D0 \u05E0\u05D7 (\u05DB\u05DE\u05D5 \u05E1\u05D2\u05DC)\r\n\u05D0\u05DD
    \u05D9\u05E9 \u05D3\u05D2\u05E9 \u05D1\u05D0\u05D5\u05EA \u05D4\u05E9\u05D5\u05D5\u05D0
    \u05EA\u05D7\u05EA\u05D9\u05D5 \u05D4\u05D5\u05D0 \u05EA\u05DE\u05D9\u05D3 \u05E0\u05E2
    \u05D5\u05D4\u05D5\u05D0 \u05DE\u05D1\u05D8\u05DC \u05D0\u05EA \u05D4\u05DB\u05DC\u05DC\u05D9\u05DD
    \u05D4\u05D0\u05D7\u05E8\u05D9\u05DD\r\n\u05D1\u05E9\u05E0\u05D9 \u05D0\u05D5\u05EA\u05D9\u05D5\u05EA
    \u05D3\u05D5\u05DE\u05D5\u05EA \u05DB\u05DE\u05D5 \u05DE\u05EA\u05E4\u05DC\u05DC\u05D9\u05DD
    \u05D4\u05E9\u05D5\u05D0 \u05D4\u05D5\u05D0 \u05EA\u05DE\u05D9\u05D3 \u05E0\u05E2\r\n\r\n\r\n\u05DB\u05E8\u05D2\u05E2
    \u05DE\u05D4\u05E9\u05D3\u05D5\u05D1\u05E8\u05DB\u05D0\u05DF \u05DC\u05D2\u05D1\u05D9
    '\u05D4' \u05D4\u05D9\u05D3\u05D9\u05E2\u05D4\r\n\u05EA\u05DE\u05D9\u05D3 \u05D4\u05D0\u05D5\u05EA
    \u05D0\u05D7\u05E8\u05D9 \u05D4-\u05D4\u05D9\u05D3\u05D9\u05E2\u05D4 \u05EA\u05D1\u05D5\u05D0
    \u05D3\u05D2\u05D5\u05E9\u05D4\r\n \u05D5\u05D4\u05D5\u05D0\u05D9\u05DC \u05D5\u05D3\u05D2\u05D5\u05E9\u05D4
    \u05D4\u05D5\u05D0 \u05DB\u05DC\u05DC \u05D1\u05E8\u05D6\u05DC \u05DC\u05D2\u05D1\u05D9
    \u05E9\u05D5\u05D5\u05D0 \u05E0\u05E2 \u05D4\u05E9\u05D5\u05D5\u05D0 \u05EA\u05D7\u05EA\u05D9\u05D5
    \u05EA\u05DE\u05D9\u05D3 \u05EA\u05D4\u05D9\u05D4 \u05E0\u05E2\r\nGROUP\r\nAnyLetter\r\n
    \ [alef-tav]\r\n\r\nTnuahKetana\r\n   segol\r\n   Ect' Ect'\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n-------------------------------------------------\r\nSUB
    LOOKUP shevanach [RTL]\r\nsheva -> shevanach\r\nCONDITION\r\n  | space\r\n<anyletter>
    Sheva |\r\n<anyletter> <tnuahKetana> |\r\nhe patah <anyLetter> |\r\n\r\nSUB LOOKUP
    FixSheva [RTL]\r\nshevanach -> sheva\r\nCONDITION\r\ndagesh |\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------\r\n\r\n[Context
    Before | Context After]\r\n\r\n\r\n\u05D6\u05D4\u05D5 \u05D1\u05D2\u05D3\u05D5\u05DC
    \u05DB\u05DC \u05DE\u05D4 \u05E9\u05E6\u05E8\u05D9\u05DA \u05DB\u05D3\u05D9 \u05D4\u05E9\u05E4\u05D5\u05E0\u05D8
    \u05D9\u05D3\u05E2 \u05DC\u05D4\u05D7\u05DC\u05D9\u05E3 \u05D2\u05DC\u05D9\u05E3
    \u05E9\u05DC \u05E9\u05D5\u05D5\u05D0 \u05E8\u05D2\u05D9\u05DC \u05D1\u05E9\u05D5\u05D5\u05D0
    \u05E0\u05D7\r\n\r\n\u05D1\u05D1\u05E8\u05DB\u05D4\r\n\u05D0\u05DC\u05D9\u05D4\u05D5
    \u05E4\u05E8\u05D9\u05D3\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-13 23:32:14'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "\u05DE\u05D4 \u05E9\u05E0\u05D5\u05D2\u05E2 \u05DC\u05DE\u05D9\u05E7\u05D5\u05DD
    \u05D8\u05E2\u05DE\u05D9 \u05DE\u05E7\u05E8\u05D0\r\n\u05D4\u05DB\u05DC \u05DE\u05E1\u05D9\u05D0\u05E1
    2 \u05D5\u05D0\u05D5\u05E4\u05D9\u05E1 2007\r\n\u05D4\u05DE\u05D9\u05E7\u05D5\u05DD
    \u05E9\u05DC \u05D8\u05E2\u05DE\u05D9\u05DD \u05D4\u05D5\u05D0 \u05DE\u05D0\u05D5\u05D3
    \u05E4\u05E9\u05D5\u05D8 \r\n\u05D1\u05E9\u05DC\u05D1 \u05D4\u05E8\u05D0\u05E9\u05D5\u05DF
    \u05E2\u05D5\u05E9\u05D9\u05DD\r\nPair Abjusment\r\n\u05DB\u05D0\u05E9\u05E8 \u05D4\u05E0\u05D9\u05E7\u05D5\u05D3
    \u05D7\u05D5\u05D6\u05E8 \u05D1\u05D9\u05D7\u05E1 \u05E9\u05DC \u05D7\u05E6\u05D9
    \u05E9\u05DC \u05E8\u05D5\u05D7\u05D1 \u05D4\u05D8\u05E2\u05DD\r\n\u05DB\u05E2\u05EA
    \u05DE\u05DE\u05E7\u05DE\u05D9\u05DD \u05D0\u05EA \u05D4\u05D8\u05E2\u05DD \u05DC\u05E0\u05D9\u05E7\u05D5\u05D3
    \u05E9\u05D4\u05D5\u05D6\u05D7 \u05D0\u05D7\u05D5\u05E8\u05E0\u05D9\u05EA\r\n\u05DB\u05DA
    \u05D4\u05E0\u05D9\u05E7\u05D5\u05D3 \u05EA\u05DE\u05D9\u05D3 \u05D9\u05D5\u05E9\u05D1
    \u05E0\u05DB\u05D5\u05DF \u05D1\u05D9\u05D7\u05E1 \u05DC\u05D0\u05D5\u05EA\r\n\r\n\u05D0\u05D6
    \u05DE\u05EA\u05E7\u05E0\u05D9\u05DD \u05D0\u05EA \u05D4\u05DE\u05E7\u05E8\u05D9\u05DD\r\n'\u05D3'-'\u05D5'-'\u05E8'\r\n\u05D1\u05E1\u05D9\u05D0\u05E1
    \u05E8\u05D2\u05D9\u05DC \u05D4\u05E4\u05E2\u05D5\u05DC\u05D4 \u05DE\u05D6\u05D9\u05D7\u05D4
    \u05D0\u05EA \u05D4\u05E0\u05D9\u05E7\u05D5\u05D3 \u05E7\u05D3\u05D9\u05DE\u05D4
    \u05D1\u05DE\u05E7\u05D5\u05DD \u05D0\u05D7\u05D5\u05E8\u05D4 \u05D5\u05D6\u05D0\u05EA
    \u05D1\u05D2\u05DC\u05DC \u05E9\u05E1\u05D9\u05D0\u05E1 \u05D0\u05D7\u05D3 \u05DC\u05D0
    \u05D9\u05D5\u05D3\u05E2 \u05DC\u05D8\u05E4\u05DC \u05D1\u05E4\u05D9\u05D9\u05E8
    \u05D0\u05D1\u05D2'\u05E1\u05DE\u05E0\u05D8 \u05D1\u05D9\u05DE\u05D9\u05DF \u05DC\u05E9\u05DE\u05D0\u05DC\r\n\u05DE\u05D4
    \u05E9\u05EA\u05D5\u05E7\u05DF \u05D1\u05E1\u05D9\u05D0\u05E1 2\r\n\r\n\u05D1\u05D1\u05E8\u05DB\u05D4\r\n\u05D0\u05DC\u05D9\u05D4\u05D5
    \u05E4\u05E8\u05D9\u05D3"
  created: '2009-01-13 23:40:14'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/taamim_3618.jpg]\r\n\r\nthis is an example
    usig this technique\r\nnot yet place abov ttamim on keft side of last letters\r\nbut
    you can see how this technique works great"
  created: '2009-01-13 23:54:22'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Eli,\r\n\r\nWhich font design is this? Are you the designer?\r\n\r\nIt is
    both traditional judging from many design aspects, but it is also modern, because
    of different design aspects.\r\n\r\nShall I elaborate?\r\n\r\nUsually, Biblical
    text is set in very traditional designs, like Vilna, Koren, or Hadasa (semi-modern).
    Rarely, is Biblical text set where the stroke width is uniform, as in the sample.\r\n\r\nIn
    a sense a uniform stroke width allows greater readability, like the advantages
    of sans-serif designs, such as Hevetica, versus serif designs, such as Times-Roman,
    but in my opinion non-uniform stroke widths allow the design greater creativity
    in creating a beautifil design, such as Bodoni or Vilna.\r\n\r\nDo you agree?\r\n\r\nIsrael"
  created: '2009-08-27 22:14:15'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "Israel:\r\nabsolutly\r\nUniform design give a more static and cleant look
    and smooth typographic color.\r\n\r\nwhere nonuniform design will give a dirtier
    look because of contrast between horizontals and verticals strokes, but give a
    much more dynamic look.\r\n\r\nreadability has meny aspects in both (uniform and
    non uniform) designs.\r\n\r\n\r\nYes, I'm the designer of this font"
  created: '2009-08-28 14:35:38'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Eli,\r\n\r\nYour design is very good. Does this font have a name? Do you
    have a sans version.\r\n\r\nI created sans and san serif designs based on Ariel
    Hebrew, by my friend Boruch Gorink, a Lubavitcher in Crown Heights Brooklyn, called
    Safed. I think that I posted a sample.\r\n\r\nSafed is also a uniform stroke weight.
    I want to created also a set of non-uniform stroke widths, where the vertical
    stroke widths are wider than the horizonal ones, for the Hebrew only users, and
    where the horizontal stroke widths are wider than the vertical ones, for the Western
    users and/or mixing with Roman languages.\r\n\r\nIn your email message you refer
    to helping, but I am unsure to what you are referring. Are you referring to Volt
    programming?\r\n\r\nShabbat shalom, and a ktiva vChatima tova!\r\n\r\nIsrael"
  created: '2009-08-28 19:46:09'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Btw, I would change the angle of the left horizontal stroke to match the
    tet's left horizontal stroke.\r\n\r\nIn this way, the left space would be roomier,
    and appear not so \"dark\" from a distance.\r\n\r\nI would create a non-nikkud
    version of the ayin, where the right horizontal stroke reaches farther below the
    baseline.\r\n\r\nI would shorten the top vertical bar of the gimmel to increase
    the \"breathing space\". Most designers do not extend the top vertical bar of
    the gimmel to equal the length of the bottom stroke.\r\n\r\nSee the noon for a
    good example.\r\n\r\nI will comment upon the aleph later. There are excellent
    design elements there, but I question the validity of the \"spitz\" in the top
    left hand part. Although the intention to make the aleph match other letters is
    important, I think it may be excessive, as most designers do not do so."
  created: '2009-08-28 19:59:22'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "\"In your email message you refer to helping, but I am unsure to what you
    are referring. Are you referring to Volt programming?\"\r\n\r\nalso, if u r planing
    of developing your fonts with TAAMEY MIKRA and Sheva na/nach Ect'\r\ni might be
    able to help with some usefull info.\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-29 21:52:01'
- author:
    name: Yaronimus-Maximus
    picture: 110981
  body: "ashreichem.\r\nit's really impressive, what you people are talking about.\r\nim
    not sure i understand all of it. :)"
  created: '2009-11-21 08:09:48'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Asrei yoshvei beyteychem\r\n\r\nJohn Hudson told me that the Volt programmers
    at Microsoft observed that Biblical Hebrew represented the ultimate test of Volt
    programming. Is anything more complex?"
  created: '2010-06-29 15:34:24'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "I think that a full hebrew project is the most comlex in the world.\r\nmy
    project for example contains thousands of lines of context"
  created: '2010-07-25 06:18:25'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: Here is a sample of automatic sheva na-nach ect'[img:sites/default/files/old-images/snnqrq_4588.jpg]
  created: '2010-07-25 07:13:14'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>John Hudson told me that the Volt programmers at Microsoft observed that
    Biblical Hebrew represented the ultimate test of Volt programming. Is anything
    more complex?</em>\r\n\r\nThat's not quite what I said, Israel. What I actually
    said is that my VOLT project for SBL Hebrew was the most complex Sergey had seen
    at that date. Since then, I've made the Gabriola display typeface, which is more
    complex than the SBL Hebrew, and am now working on an Arabic project that is more
    complex still.\r\n\r\nBiblical Hebrew is complex because of the contextual behaviour
    of the marks. The Gabriola font is complex because of the multiple stylistic options
    and the contextual behaviour of the letters. The Arabic involves contextual behaviour
    of both letters and marks, as well as contextual interaction between the two.\r\n\r\nBiblical
    Hebrew is certainly complex, but because the rules for mark behaviour are established
    by the masoretic codices, the limits of that complexity are quite circumscribed.
    The actual letters are very regular and do not connect or otherwise interact --
    even in the cursive style, Hebrew is notable for involving very little ligation
    --, so as long as one has worked out the contexts for the vowel and accent behaviour
    one has reached the extent of the complexity.\r\n\r\n[Performing automatic sheva
    na-nach ect' at the glyph substitution level will certainly add to the complexity
    of VOLT contextual lookups, but as I've argued before, I don't believe that semantic
    distinctions should be made at the glyph level even when it is possible, and if
    something requires dictionary support in some instances then that's all the more
    reason for it so be a character level operation.]"
  created: '2010-07-25 23:43:44'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "John, let me disagree with you on that.\r\nfirst, open type operates fast
    and is online, not as a script that takes more time and must be ran every timr
    a change is made.\r\n\r\nsecond. this product is wanted and used bt meny publishers
    who find it very usful.\r\n\r\nthird, becouse their is no unicode for shevana,
    there is no standart where these glyphs should be.\r\n\r\ndoing a task like this
    manualy for an intire TANACH would take years.\r\n\r\nif it works, and works well,
    there is no reason not to take an OT solution.\r\nthis debate what shold be done
    at glyph level and what at thr character level does not cocern me, as long as
    the job is accomplished."
  created: '2010-07-26 05:37:52'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>third, becouse their is no unicode for shevana, there is no standart
    where these glyphs should be.</em>\r\n\r\nMy point is that there should be a Unicode
    for shevana, just as there is to distinguish the different qamats. This is a semantic
    distinction that some users wish to make, and semantic distinctions are properly
    handled at the character level, because they should not be lost just because the
    user changes fonts. I'm happy for you if you have a solution that works for your
    needs, but your needs are not everyone's needs and having a clear understanding
    of what belongs at the character level and what belongs at the glyph level is
    necessary to standardisation of text encoding and display."
  created: '2010-07-26 17:19:28'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "John.\r\nIn normal modern hebrew there is no need for qamats qatqan and sheva
    na.\r\nin traditional hebrew they come to use, but remember, in traditional text
    we use traditional type faces.\r\nFrankruel, Haddasa, Vilna, Droglin, Koren, Ivri.\r\n\r\nPublishers
    from all over the world order my developments, because who ever needs these distinctions
    have no other solution but the solution i provide.\r\n\r\n\r\nuntil now there
    is no other solution like a program or script do complete the task.\r\n\r\nSo
    this argument is more of principle than actual.\r\nif you can come up with a better
    solution, be blessed."
  created: '2010-07-27 07:33:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Yes, it is an argument from principle, but in the area of text encoding principle
    tends to win out eventually. Sheva na was not proposed to Unicode at the same
    time as qamats qatan because there was uncertainty over the best way to encode
    it. Mark Shoulson, who co-wrote the qamats qatan encoding proposal, documented
    three different ways of representing the sheva na in text, as used by three different
    major publishers. If I recall correctly, two involved marks below the letter and
    one involved a mark above the letter. Since Unicode encodes what is 'on the page'
    rather than semantics, this presented a confusing case, and Mark decided to proceed
    with the simpler qamats qatan encoding proposal independent of the sheva na issue.
    Since then, I get the impression that there might be more agreement on the 'proper'
    way to indicate sheva na, and hence an encoding proposal might be easier to produce
    and have approved.\r\n\r\nI've written to Mark to bring this discussion to his
    attention, in case he wants to comment on or correct anything that I've written.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not criticising your fonts Eli, and I understand that your very clever OTL approach
    is the only current option. I'm just saying that a semantically significant text
    entity should be an encoded character, not a glyph variant, and that based on
    this principle sheva na should be encoded in Unicode."
  created: '2010-07-27 17:32:17'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "Jhon, I Get The filling taht you are way up there, and hav influence to change
    things\r\nif so, i wish to have a conversation with yor about some issues.\r\n\r\nmy
    mail is\r\nstudiofried@gmail.com"
  created: '2010-07-27 23:49:22'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "Typograph: John is absolutely correct in that the shva nach should not and
    actually from a grammatical point of view actually cannot be encoded into the
    font.\r\n\r\nWhat you have to know is that the shva na/nach is contextual and
    editorial. For example, let's take the Priestly Blessing. Is it, Yevarekhekha
    or Yevarekhkha? Ie is the second shva a na or nach? It's an editorial decision
    and based on the source of the text."
  created: '2010-10-17 15:12:35'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Eli Fried,\r\n\r\n>  Here is a sample of automatic sheva na-nach etc'\r\n\r\nCan
    you point how it automatic with (before OpenType) and with (after OpenType)?"
  created: '2010-10-18 00:21:27'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "Jhon.\r\nAs a programer I think i could write an application to do this at
    a character level.\r\nBut.....\r\n\r\nAs you understand I am mainly a simple type
    designer who tries to give typographic solutions.\r\n\r\nwhen giving a solution
    as OT it's easier to protect your work than an application that any one can make
    an iligale copy and use it and you can never proove it where with a font you can
    recognize the type face as yours.\r\n\r\nGoHebrew \r\nBefor the Ot Functions all
    sheva's dagesh and qamats are normal."
  created: '2010-10-19 03:35:15'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Eli:\r\n\r\nGoHebrew\r\nBefor the Ot Functions all sheva's dagesh and qamats
    are normal.\r\n\r\nIsrael:\r\n\r\nI do not understand"
  created: '2010-10-19 05:04:33'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Not being familiar with what Qamatz Qatan, Shva Na, and Meteg <em>are</em>,
    I looked them up on the Internet.\r\n\r\nI see that there is more to this than
    the issues addressed in some of the papers about typesetting Hebrew with TeX,
    which discuss such matters as having a symmetry axis for each letter to govern
    positioning of vowel points when more than one vowel point symbol is applied to
    the same letter.\r\n\r\nSpecifically, Kamatz Katan, for example, is an alternate
    form of one vowel point used to indicate an alternate pronunciation <em>which
    no longer exists in modern Hebrew</em>.\r\n\r\nSo the question isn't really \"can
    this be automated\", but rather \"does one wish to automate this\". Many word
    processors include dictionaries for the purpose of spell-checking. One could,
    theoretically, have a Latin font that comes with a very long embedded program
    which also does spell checking, but if that's <em>inside the font</em>, then there's
    no interface with which to override any decisions the font makes to change the
    spelling of a word you want to print.\r\n\r\nThere are things that can't be automated
    within a font in a useful manner even if they're not so complicated that they
    can't be handled algorithmically - because the font is the wrong place to do it."
  created: '2010-10-19 21:59:03'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John S.,\r\n\r\nThe kamatz katan is encoded by Unicode, \r\nthough like the
    shva-na, \r\nit is merely a grammar issue.\r\n\r\nThe kamatz katan is used, but
    rarely.\r\nThe shva-na is much more used, but not always.\r\n\r\nThe shva-na is
    also a grammar issue.\r\nBut the shva-na is not encoded by Unicode.\r\n\r\nWhy?\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-19 23:48:41'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "quadibloc:\r\nmy font allows overriding with other stylistic sets and at
    the keyboard level.\r\nThe simple fact is, many used these fuctions and enjoyed
    them."
  created: '2010-10-20 10:07:25'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "there might be more elegant ways to deal with the matter, but for now it's
    the only prctical way.\r\n\r\npeople don't care for prinsibles, they want a working
    solution for their needs.\r\nwhat shoult be done and how, is not a matter the
    concerns me, \r\nI sleep well at night, and thats what matters :)."
  created: '2010-10-20 10:10:49'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> people don't care for princibles...\r\n\r\nI disagree.\r\n\r\nShai L'Mora
    publishes davka prefer Mincha Shai.\r\nMany argue in Chabad the 5th 6h and 7th
    Lubavitcher Rebbes chose Rabbi Zalman Henna.\r\n\r\nThe Vilna Gaon, and ArtScroll
    wanted Rabbi Eliyahu Bachur.\r\nProf. Aron Dotan vehemently criticized the latter's
    view."
  created: '2010-10-20 15:21:54'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: Eli, did you suggest that Volt should first define each dagesh as dagesh chazak
    and dagesh kal, because this definition is needed to determine whether a shva
    was na or nach, as Bill said?
  created: '2010-10-20 15:25:00'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "gohebrew, i was'nt refering to grammer.\r\nI was refering rather the sheva
    na\\nach solution should be done at the charater level or OT level"
  created: '2010-10-20 15:25:45'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "not only sheva but qamats aswell.\r\n\r\nthere is a rule that sais that any
    qamats that the following letter has a dagesh hazaq the qamats is qatan unless
    you hav a qamats under the letter with the dagesh hazaq such as\r\nLAMA ATA (\u05DC\u05DE\u05D4,
    \u05D0\u05EA\u05D4) foe example."
  created: '2010-10-20 15:29:51'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Eli,\r\n\r\n>>  charater level or OT level\r\n\r\nthis is john hudson's view\r\ni
    think it is incorrect\r\n\r\nwhat is the ot level, if not an ot font?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n>>
    \ any qamats that the following letter has a dagesh hazaq the qamats is qatan
    unless you hav a qamats under the letter with the dagesh hazaq\r\n\r\nso i need
    to define dagesh hazak in order to define a kamatz katan or kamatz gadol\r\nis
    there anything else?\r\nhow do i define a dagesh as either chazak or kal?\r\n\r\nkollel
    revach cites words in prayer that if there is no kamatz katan symbol, it is not
    just mispronounced but means a different word. in short, that word must show a
    kamatz katan.\r\n\r\nis there any word that should have a shva-na, and by not
    showing a shva-na, it s not just mispronounced but means a different word."
  created: '2010-10-20 15:45:30'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "sure, there a sevral.\r\n\r\nVayirau or vayiru\r\non is to hav Yirah (fear)
    and the other meaning to see\r\n\u05D5\u05D9\u05E8\u05D0\u05D5 \u05D4\u05E2\u05DD
    \u05D0\u05EA \u05D4\r\ndid they see him or fear him\r\n\r\nLishney afar\r\nsleeping
    in dirst or two dirt.\r\nTevel - meleail or melera\r\nmelera means world ane tevel
    mileail asur min hatora\r\n\r\nbut mostley mimispronouncing means NO SUCH WORD
    IN HEBREW"
  created: '2010-10-20 15:54:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'John S., the Kamatz Katan is pronounced differently in modern Hebrew, like
    an "o" instead of an "a". Both the question of whether and why have been debated
    here. '
  created: '2010-10-20 15:55:46'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "gohebrew, may I give you tip before you post your next post:\r\n\r\ntype
    away but <em>before</em> you hit the post button on your keyboard do the following:\r\n<li>assess
    whether what you have just said is relevant to the thread (I give away is if you
    start typing in Yiddish or mention that you are Lubavitch, then you probably should
    be rewriting it)</li>\r\n<li>can you rewrite what you have said in less words?
    Remember it takes people time to read this and let's respect that time.</li>\r\n<li>will
    you have more to say? there is nothing more irritating than seeing 10 posts in
    a row from one person. Perhaps ponder your paragraph, have a little break and
    then write a little more (again <em>before</em> hitting the \"Post\" button.</li>\r\n<li>are
    you creating a chillul hashem by what you write? How is what you are writing being
    perceived by somebody else. If you are calling other people names, or accusing
    them of theft, how will you be perceived and how will am yisrael be perceived.
    Look at previous posts by others making comments on this. Is this constructive?</li>\r\n<li>finally
    there are many experts on this forum. Respect their opinions, after all that's
    the point of this forums. This isn't your personal Hyde Park corner.</li>\r\n\r\nI
    have more to say, but inline with point number 2, I'll end this here.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-20 19:21:17'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> ... your personal Hyde Park corner.\r\n\r\nWhat's that?"
  created: '2010-10-20 19:33:27'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: google it.
  created: '2010-10-20 19:41:34'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "There are few things that we do not see eye to eye:\r\n\r\na) the origins
    of the Koren design\r\nb) the geder \u05D2\u05D3\u05E8 of a chilul Hashem \u05D7\u05DC\u05D5\u05DC
    \u05D4\u05E9\u05DD\r\nc) the worthiness of enabling Jewish children to master
    Hebrew grammar\r\n   versus going after only the holy dollar\r\nd) the integrity
    and talent of Tzvika R.\r\ne) the necessity to keep Typophile as sterile and impersonal
    as possible\r\nf) will the NY Yankees win the world series next year"
  created: '2010-10-20 19:52:40'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: Do you know Propect Park is? I have a corner there...
  created: '2010-10-20 19:53:49'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "There are few things that we do not see eye to eye:\r\n> a) the origins of
    the Koren design\r\ntrue.\r\n> b) the geder \u05D2\u05D3\u05E8 of a chilul Hashem
    \u05D7\u05DC\u05D5\u05DC \u05D4\u05E9\u05DD\r\nvery true\r\n> c) the worthiness
    of enabling Jewish children to master Hebrew grammar\r\n versus going after only
    the holy dollar\r\nfairly irrelevant to a forum on font design.\r\n> d) the integrity
    and talent of Tzvika R.\r\nI have never discussed the talent of Zvika Rosenberg.
    This is not relevant to me since I use the Koren font at work which is not Zvika
    Rosenberg's \"talent\". However, with regards to all my dealings with fonts over
    many years and several companies, I have found Rosenberg to be incredibly honest.
    I can only judge a person on my personal experience, but I can publicly say that
    my dealings with Masterfont from my very first dealings when I made aliya in 1993
    at Dfus HaMakor, to the Jerusalem Post, then my only firm and now at Koren has
    been extremely professional and both him and his wife are an absolute pleasure
    to do business with.\r\n> e) the necessity to keep Typophile as sterile and impersonal
    as possible\r\ntrue.\r\n> f) will the NY Yankees win the world series next year\r\non
    this one, I can firmly say that i have no opinion whatsoever. I'm assuming you
    are talking baseball and not cricket right?\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-21 11:01:52'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Is it cricket?\r\n\r\nI am happy for you that your business dealing with
    Mr. Rosenberg and his company Masterfont has been good since 1993, after I made
    yerida in 1988.\r\n\r\nPerhaps, I believe lashon hora and motzei shem rah, improper
    speech and slander.\r\n\r\nI know that I have given font software from Ofek, Masterfont,
    and others in Israel. Most were poorly made, often with missing glyphs. We never
    used their inferior software. \r\n\r\nRather, new outlines with different bezier
    control points were created. Often, new US Copyrights were subject to new US Copyright
    registration, to avoid any legal pikpuk speculation. This has always been my consideration
    since 1986, when I founded Otzar HaOht, the Typeface Treasury, when Tzvika was
    riding a bike to Apple Israel's offices at Yeda Computers.\r\n\r\nEli, I do design
    typefaces. I created the first Arabic font in 1987. I sold Hebrew fonts for bundling
    with laser printers then as well. I created the first set of BeloRussian typefaces
    in 1989, when I sold the first Macintosh typesetting system to the post-Gorbachov
    Minsk-based government.  Later, I created and sold Ukrainian fonts for a printer.\r\n\r\nI
    prefer to revive old designs, as they are not available.\r\n\r\nI seek to do things
    that benefit people. On the way, G-d sends me parnasa via different jobs.\r\n\r\nI
    think the automatic shva-na would be a great accomplishment, despite what you
    and others say. Only G-d knows the future."
  created: '2010-10-21 11:33:15'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "I think on behalf of everyone on these forums, we all wish you the best of
    luck with your automatic shva na. I hope that you indeed accomplish this amazing
    task (heck they mapped the genome). \r\n\r\nLooking forward to seeing the results
    on this forum in the future."
  created: '2010-10-21 12:40:03'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Thank you, Raphael.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-21 12:42:59'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "Gohebrew: your ideas and others about Z.Rozenberg and othe type desighers
    are irellevant and lowers typophile as a proffesional forum.\r\nI do not appreciate
    talk and criticism of other type designers.\r\n\r\n\"I think the automatic shva-na
    would be a great accomplishment, despite what you and others say. Only G-d knows
    the future.\"\r\n\r\nI did it, so i know it can partially be done to a 99%.\r\nbut
    you first have to know your stuff.\r\njust having matirial is not enough\r\n\r\nif
    teaching is your only intention, design a special font for that perpose and i
    will make it work with sheva na\\nach (it would take me 2 minutes)"
  created: '2010-10-21 13:30:34'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> Z.Rozenberg\r\n\r\nfunny, comin' from you"
  created: '2010-10-21 14:42:13'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "can you delete the first shvah-na that begins a letter?\r\n\r\ni do want
    to design a special face for education with every single grammar rule you mentioned
    as glyph, to facilitate teaching those subjects.\r\n\r\nwhat about the shitahs
    of the shvah-na? you how they differ a lot. why?"
  created: '2010-10-21 14:47:32'
date: '2008-11-16 14:05:25'
title: 'Straight from Israel: Raphael''s Comments & Others too'

---
