---
author:
  name: RahimSnow
  picture: 114570
body: "<strong>The Problem</strong>\r\nMany of us have wanted to license a complete
  font family but cannot afford to do so at the present time.  So we purchase only
  one or two weights that we really need.\r\n\r\nBut later when we are able to afford
  the whole family, we are told that we have to either purchase the whole family at
  the full price (essentially paying for the single weights we purchased earlier all
  over again) or we can get a nominal discount.\r\n\r\nFontshop, for example, allows
  you to pay the difference if you buy the single weights and then you buy the whole
  family later inside the same month.  The issue with this is that if you can't afford
  to purchase the whole family right now, that situation is unlikely to change inside
  a month.  It may take you many months or even a year or two to be able to do it.\r\n\r\nThough
  I am sure this makes a lot of business sense from the point of view of the business,
  it is not as friendly & helpful as it could be from the point of view of the consumer.\r\n\r\n<strong>One
  Happy Solution</strong>\r\nIn the economic climate we all now live in, I want to
  point out [[http://www.vllg.com/tastetest.php|Vllg.com's \"taste test\" policy]]
  as one example of what a truly upgrade-friendly consumer-oriented purchasing policy
  looks like.  Their policy states:\r\n\r\n<strong>If you purchase a single weight
  (or more) of any typeface we offer, then return later to buy a family set, we will
  credit you the amount of the original sale.\r\n\r\nHow the program works\r\n\r\nWe
  know that you might want to try out one or two weights of a typeface to decide if
  it's right for a project you're working on. While the MudTyper and PDFs are very
  useful, there is nothing quite like trying out a typeface yourself.\r\n\r\nSo, you
  visit vllg.com and license your \"trial\" font (or fonts) and work with it for a
  while. A couple of hours, a couple of months, or a couple of years.\r\n\r\nIf you
  decide you want to get a family set, just come back to vllg.com and purchase a license
  online. Send us a note on the checkout page or via email and we will deduct the
  original cost of your \"trial\" fonts from your family order. </strong>\r\n\r\nA
  policy like this encourages us to purchase more fonts from them to try out, knowing
  full well that they will allow us to pay the difference if we want to come back
  and get the whole family, even if it is years later.\r\n\r\nWhat do you think of
  this \"taste test\" policy?  Do you know of other upgrade-friendly type foundries
  that are willing to do what they can to help the customer not pay twice for the
  same fonts?\r\n\r\nRahim"
comments:
- author:
    name: jonathanhughes
  body: I think it's a great idea and would certainly encourage me to buy fonts from
    Village. It may initially cause them to lose potential profit, but I think in
    the long run, the goodwill that it indicates will ultimately increase profits.
  created: '2008-11-17 21:20:44'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: 'Seems like a great idea to me. '
  created: '2008-11-17 22:39:10'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: I like the idea and a couple of years ago actually had a scenario with a client
    and a Village font where this would have been perfect. We wanted 1 weight to set
    type and show the client in order to get them to buy the whole family for a branding
    project. In the end we purchased the whole family but it would have been nice
    to go this route.
  created: '2008-11-17 23:45:22'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Sounds like a great idea for customers. But this seems like the biggest threat
    to the font industry since Apple decided it would be a good idea to give away
    fonts with web page downloads. Isn't the font business built on the principle
    of selling the same font to the same users over and over again?
  created: '2008-11-18 00:22:01'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "When I talked to Teresa at FontShop concerning ordering parts of Clifford
    and then if I would get discounted when I purchase the whole entire thing\u2013
    she told me no\u2013 they don\u2019t do that. \r\n\r\nSo FontShop is off the list
    for me.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, VLLG is excellent for that purpose. I plan on
    get the rest of Odile and starting in on National.\r\n\r\nMike Diaz"
  created: '2008-11-18 01:36:34'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "FontShop have never been on my list, and until they change their business
    model to something more realistic and receptive to real-world needs of font buyers,
    I don't have enuff good reasons for putting FontShop on my list.\r\n\r\nDidn't
    one of Typophile's users recently describe Erik Spiekermann as \"a stingy man\"
    ? Yes, it was that Japanese person I can't recall the screen name of who said
    that, and he was branded as \"mean-spirited\" for having the temerity to say it.
    Surely FontShop's inflexible sales policy regarding font family purchases is mean-spirited?\r\n\r\nAnother
    reason they're not on my list has to do with FF Meta being no less homogenous
    or tyrannical than Helvetica. Same old Roman Army, different style. Meh!\r\n\r\n@Sii:
    <em>Sounds like a great idea for customers. But this seems like the biggest threat
    to the font industry since Apple decided it would be a good idea to give away
    fonts with web page downloads. Isn\u2019t the font business built on the principle
    of selling the same font to the same users over and over again?</em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    but with all respect, surely you are overstating the downside for vendors by way
    of exaggeration?\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-11-18 14:29:41'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Isn\u2019t the font business built on the principle of selling the
    same font to the same users over and over again?</cite>\r\n\r\nOf course it is.
    Everybody knows that Adobe created Opentype so they could kill Type 1 and sell
    their forged fonts a second time around."
  created: '2008-11-18 15:39:06'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Yes, but with all respect, surely you are overstating the downside for vendors
    by way of exaggeration?\r\n\r\nTrue. \r\n\r\n>Everybody knows that Adobe created
    Opentype \r\n\r\nNot true. ;-)"
  created: '2008-11-18 16:45:10'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "Didn\u2019t Fred Goudy once describe anyone who letterspaced lower-case as
    a... yes, what was it? Probably was branded as \u201Cmean-spirited\u201D for having
    the temerity to say it as well. "
  created: '2008-11-19 13:14:49'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "Process is also a foundry that will apply the purchase of a few fonts to
    the later purchase of the entire family. I believe that Psyops has the same policy,
    IIRC.\r\n\r\nSharon"
  created: '2008-11-19 13:29:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Rahim, your artfully capitalized thread title is provocative, but you don't
    seem to understand the simple retail principle at work here, Volume Discount.\r\n\r\nThe
    benefit for the seller is to make a larger, immediate sale.\r\nThe benefit for
    the purchaser is a reduced per-unit cost.\r\n\r\nThe fact that the \"full set\"
    contains what may be licensed separately is immaterial.\r\nWhere is the incentive
    if there is no disincentive?\r\n\r\nThe way it work is like this (and I use my
    most recent release, Beaufort Pro):\r\n\r\nSingle font: $59\r\nPackage of ten:
    $299 (unit price 29.90)\r\nBuy two now, package later: $417 (unit price 41.70)\r\n\r\nIsn't
    that still a deal?\r\nAnd you're making out like I'm ripping people off?!\r\nDo
    the math, get a life, make some money, and if you're offered a deal, don't go
    dissing whoever made it because they're not as \"upgrade friendly\" as your greedy
    heart desires.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nHaving said that, I can't deny that the Village
    offer makes a lot of sense.\r\nCanada Type also has an interesting idea, with
    differential licence options for the same product.\r\nAnd of course there are
    \"get this font free, pay for the other family members later\" offers, such as
    those from exljbris.\r\nBut the good old \"family discount\" is still a great
    deal for purchasers."
  created: '2008-11-19 16:02:00'
- author:
    name: RahimSnow
    picture: 114570
  body: "Nick,\r\n\r\nI think you might be reading my comments and the comments of
    some of the other posters as one and the same comments, thinking that they and
    I are saying the exact same thing.\r\n\r\nThe purpose of my post was not to incite
    a riot, but to start a conversation.  And like any conversation, some grievances
    and frustrations will be expressed by certain members of this forum.  And we all
    need to listen to those.\r\n\r\nI admire Village a lot, but that doesn't mean
    I hate and disrespect and am ready to demonize all the the other foundries.  That
    way of thinking has proven to be a dead-end in all walks of life and all areas
    of human thought.\r\n\r\nWhat I am asking is for everyone to \"think about\" alternative
    ways to price their product so that we can all \"help\" each other in these difficult
    economic times.\r\n\r\nIt's really important that we try to \"talk with\" each
    other, rather than \"talk at\" each other, so that some degree of mutual understanding
    might have a chance to take place.\r\n\r\nHaving said that, I understand the retail
    principle well enough.  The question I'm posing is: if the Village offer makes
    \"a lot of sense\" to you, then surely some part of you understands that the retail
    principle cannot be the one-ring-to-rule-them-all approach to selling your product.\r\n\r\nLet's
    keep the conversation going, without getting personal, defensive, and, yes, mean-spirited.\r\n\r\nRahim\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-19 16:23:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Rahim, don't go lecturing me on behavior.\r\nYou are the one who started
    a thread named \"Paying Twice For The Same Fonts\", which is a provocative distortion.\r\nI
    suppose that's one way to start a conversation :-)\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-19 16:30:49'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I am sick to death of people picking on Adobe. \r\n\r\nThere I said it."
  created: '2008-11-19 18:52:50'
- author:
    name: jonathanhughes
  body: "\"You are the one who started a thread named \u201CPaying Twice For The Same
    Fonts\u201D, which is a provocative distortion.\"\r\n\r\nOh, please. Enough with
    the histrionics. Just because it doesn't fit your business model doesn't mean
    he's making a \"provocative distortion.\" Rahim's original post was thoughtful,
    and not in any way an insult to the standard way of doing things for most businesses
    (type foundries, butchers, etc.). He was posing a question, plain and simple,
    and speaking from the consumer's point of view (you know, the people who keep
    you in business). \r\n\r\nAnd no matter how you want to phrase it, you are indeed
    paying for the same font twice from many foundries if you buy one, and then come
    back and pay full price for the whole family. Yes, we understand that that's how
    it's generally done with fonts, and all sorts of other things. Yes, we understand
    that there are volume discounts when buying the whole family at once (which we
    all appreciate). And yes, we understand that the current system works quite well
    for many foundries and that doesn't make them evil. But Village's system is very
    attractive, and certainly in my case would encourage me to buy from them. \r\n\r\nI
    would not expect to go to the hardware store, buy a quart of paint for $10, and
    then come back the next day and have them sell me 3/4 of a gallon at a discounted
    price (i.e. the price of a full gallon minus the $10 I paid for the quart).\r\n\r\nBut
    if they offered that, it would certainly be appealing to a lot of people who want
    to try out paint colors. I doubt anyone thinks that Home Depot is ripping them
    off because they don't offer that. And if I sent an e-mail to Home Depot suggesting
    they do that, I really doubt they'd use the phrase \"greedy heart\" in their response
    to me.\r\n\r\n\r\n\"And you\u2019re making out like I\u2019m ripping people off?!\r\nDo
    the math, get a life, make some money, and if you\u2019re offered a deal, don\u2019t
    go dissing whoever made it because they\u2019re not as \u201Cupgrade friendly\u201D
    as your greedy heart desires.\"\r\n\r\nI think it's safe to say that _that_ was
    mean-spirited."
  created: '2008-11-19 19:01:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "You're right.\r\nI apologize.\r\nSorry, the \"times are tough, sell you fonts
    for less\" approach does tend to get me worked up.\r\n\r\n<em>And no matter how
    you want to phrase it, you are indeed paying for the same font twice from many
    foundries if you buy one, and then come back and pay full price for the whole
    family.</em>\r\n\r\nAnd that's the essence of the family discount? \r\nIt only
    happens if you decide to split your purchase.\r\n\r\nFrom the foundry/retailer
    perspective, there's overhead involved in administering a split-purchase refund.\r\nIt
    may be justified, if it results in a sale that otherwise might not have happened."
  created: '2008-11-19 20:13:40'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: Overhead??? A few mouse clicks is hardly overhead.
  created: '2008-11-19 22:19:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Mikey, office work is more than \"a few clicks\".\r\nFirst, a foundry/retailer
    would have to verify the original single font/fonts purchase, then work out how
    much has to be subtracted from the family fee. Then how is a non-standard amount
    paid? Shopping cart software is set up to handle fixed prices associated with
    specific product packages. \r\nI'm sure the amount of customer service time involved
    would be worth the sale, but there are so many marketing services that can be
    added to a business, and I generally try to keep things simple. I figure a deep
    discount on family packages is practical, as might be offering the basic font
    in a family for free (no Paying Twice there!)--but this refund business just strikes
    me as unnecessarily complicated. \r\nI'd rather by designing fonts (or arguing
    about it on Typophile) than implementing it."
  created: '2008-11-19 22:54:57'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I am sick to death of people picking on Adobe.</cite>\r\n\r\nI certainly
    hope you realize that my post was not at all serious."
  created: '2008-11-19 23:12:27'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: "honestly shinn mate you really need to pull your head in somethimes. You
    come off as being a really rude prick---i would not buy your fonts after youre
    little outburst!!!\r\n\r\n-----------------------\r\nChopper Reid says \"Harden
    the fuck up\".\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-20 01:34:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Sure, I put my foot in my mouth from time to time.\r\nWhich of my fonts have
    you bought in the past Murray?"
  created: '2008-11-20 02:30:03'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "i've used village and their taste test, and yes, it does influence me to
    buy from them. plus they were very helpful and friendly when i had questions (even
    sending me pre-release versions of a weight i needed).\r\n\r\n@James Arboghast
    - i love meta and infact am going to be buying it soon (well my work is). It seems
    a bit extreme to me to stike a foundary/reseller off your list partly because
    they sell a font you don't like. does that mean you would not use myfonts because
    they sell helvetica? \r\n\r\n@Nick Shinn - i agree the standard model is still
    a good deal for customers, and one day i will buy some of your fonts (saving right
    now for alphaville), but deals like the village taste test do make the standard
    model look like it's lacking. as a customer it's more tempting to use that reseller
    as they seems to give me the best deal.  \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-20 02:30:25'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: ">>>>Sure, I put my foot in my mouth from time to time.\r\n\r\nyou seem to
    have a mouth full of foot lately though.....\r\n\r\n>>>>>>Which of my fonts have
    you bought in the past Murray?\r\n\r\nnone, i dont't really like any of them to
    be honest sorry mate. but if I was thinking about it, which i'm not, I would be
    really really put off by youre angry attitude to everyone. \r\n\r\n\r\n-----------------------\r\nChopper
    Reid says \"Harden the fuck up\".\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-20 02:35:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Well that's no loss.\r\nI enjoy a good argument on Typophile, helps me see
    what's what.\r\nLooks like the Village model is a good idea then, might even adopt
    it, if Chester hasn't copyrighted it."
  created: '2008-11-20 02:58:02'
- author:
    name: Village
  body: "Hi.\r\n\r\nThe Taste Test has been Village policy since Day One. In fact,
    it was always our policy at Thirstype in Chicago too. It shows our clients the
    respect they show us by licensing our types. Similarly, all of our licensing is
    cumulative, so that clients can add to the number of computers they have covered
    without any unnecessary extra outlay.\r\n\r\nMost of our policies were created
    to balance our needs with the needs of our clients. We run on the Golden Rule.
    Which is why we have our licensing tables clearly accessible from every typeface
    page, offer Supersets and smaller Essential/Basic sets, and don't make people
    create accounts to use our site. (V2 of the site will allow for clients to create
    accounts if they wish which will make it much easier for them (and us) to manage
    Taste Tests, upgrades, etc.)\r\n\r\nIt's really painless to manage Taste Test
    orders; it takes around 90 seconds to get into our e-commerce system, make the
    necessary adjustments, and send files to clients.\r\n\r\nNick, we have not copyrighted
    the idea at all, although we wouldn't be too thrilled to see another foundry with
    a \"Taste Test\". Any other name is fair game. Another company with a similar
    scheme is Apple, where you can \"Complete My Album\" at the iTunes Store.\r\n\r\nThanks
    to Rahim for the original post. It is interesting to read the discussion it has
    sparked.\r\n\r\nChester Jenkins\r\nVillage"
  created: '2008-11-20 03:51:02'
- author:
    name: jayyy
    picture: 109661
  body: "<cite>You are the one who started a thread named \u201CPaying Twice For The
    Same Fonts\u201D, which is a provocative distortion.</cite>\r\n\r\nC'mon Nick
    - you read newspapers, right? Good copy and editorial needs to utilize \"provocative
    distortions\" to capture attention. And it's perfect because it's true! Albeit
    part of the story.\r\n\r\nHey, you looked in this thread and the title even made
    you comment. With that I jump off the 'get Nick bandwagon'.\r\n\r\nWhat's all
    this hating of FontShop too. I happen to think their online store one of the best
    put together in the market. They also have great support and good marketing through
    publishing great articles, blogs and emails. With the exception of Veer, where
    else can you browse and purchase such a diverse array of type on one site? Please
    don't say My Fonts..."
  created: '2008-11-20 03:58:12'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: 'oh and @MissTiffany - i agree. '
  created: '2008-11-20 04:27:30'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: Times are changing
  created: '2008-11-20 06:39:16'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: I wish I could offer single->family upgrades through MyFonts. If they implemented
    it, I'd be on board.
  created: '2008-11-20 07:43:14'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "@jayyy: <em>What\u2019s all this hating of FontShop too.</em>\r\n\r\nWithout
    taking the word \"hating\" literally, I will make it clear that I don't dislike
    Fontshop. I just find their retailing policy unrealistic, and find many of their
    popular fonts like Meta, Freight and Micro no less homogeneous than tyrant types
    like Helvetica, just different in style but equally regimented. All I am doing
    is exercizing my freedom of choice.\r\n\r\nIs that so unreasonable? I don't think
    so. And I don't think it's asking a lot to try to get typophiles to see that.
    One thing I dislike about the mainstream the way it encourages an, \"If you're
    not with us you are against us\" attitude. Just because I am not pro FontShop
    does that make me anti-FontShop? \r\n\r\nWhy does everything have to be viewed
    in black & white around here? The world is color blind.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-11-20 09:32:13'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "<em>Didn\u2019t one of Typophile\u2019s users recently describe Erik Spiekermann
    as \u201Ca stingy man\u201D ?</em>\r\n\r\nClueless as you are, surely this must
    be one of your more pointless efforts?\r\n\r\n\u0192"
  created: '2008-11-20 10:35:14'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "Rahim, just curious -- did you ever get a discount on a record after you'd
    bought the single and it persuaded you to buy the full album? Or are you of the
    generation that only steals his music off the internet? ;^)\r\n\r\nAnd do you
    also expect to get a font for one fifth of the price because it is licensed for
    five CPUs but you will only use it on your single home computer? :^P\r\n\r\nBTW
    The \"times are tough\" argument is <em>so</em> ridiculous. Times are tough for
    type designers and vendors as well. They also have the right to make a decent
    living. Why is it that in every discussion like this type designers and vendors
    are branded as thieving bastards, and why does everyone feel they have the right
    to determine how much they are allowed to ask for their work? Is there anybody
    telling you how much you are allowed to charge your clients? Don't forget the
    price of type has continually decreased over the past decades and the quality
    these days is unbelievable, with the new OpenType format and whatnot.\r\n\r\nAlthough
    I greatly admire their offerings I don't buy Ensched\xE9 fonts because they are
    out of my price range. But do I bitch and whine about this on Typophile? Do I
    have the presumption to tell them how much their fonts should cost? I appreciate
    Village's TasteTest police, but I don't diss other foundries because they chose
    not to offer this service. It's a free world, deal with it.\r\n\r\nNow stop whining
    and do something constructive."
  created: '2008-11-20 10:47:20'
- author:
    name: Jan Middendorp
    picture: 110288
  body: "Font vendors like to keep things simple (if not totally \"just\") by selling
    either single fonts or packages, considering each purchase a \"new\" purchase.
    There are two good reasons for doing this: money and logistics. There are also
    good reasons to do it differently, if you take into account that a customer's
    goodwill has a certain value -- and if you have the programming skills to conceive
    a system that provides the logistics. \r\nLuc(as) de Groot is one who has followed
    Rahin's logic, reckoning that a customer who is welcomed back by a company that
    remembers and rewards his or her earlier purchases comes back more happily. At
    LucasFonts, anyone who buys a font or several fonts from a family from which he/she
    has already bought fonts using the same login name, is eligible to receive a \"font
    family rebate\" even if months or years have gone by. It took LucasFonts' software
    developer Niels Poppe many hours to figure it out, but it works. It makes people
    like Rahin very happy.\r\nBTW, LucasFonts.com has a new website."
  created: '2008-11-20 13:43:37'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "@Bald Condensed - in regard to music, since iTunes have had the 'complete
    my album' option, yes i do buy a single, then buy the rest of the album. but you're
    right, in traditional music sales i would buy a single, then buy the album with
    the single on it, but it has always feels like a waste to double up. Which is
    why i now buy nearly all my music from iTunes, and for similar reasons will use
    font vendors who offer 'deals' that make is seem like i'm saving more money. it's
    not that the traditionla models are bad, it's just that the newer ones seem to
    offer better value, or at least less waste, whether it's true or not i don't know,
    but it seems that way, and lots of time that's a big deal. \r\n\r\ni agree the
    'times are tough' thing is silly as everybody is in the same boat.\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-20 14:55:06'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "<em>(...) for similar reasons will use font vendors who offer \u2019deals\u2019
    that make it seem like I\u2019m saving more money.</em>\r\n\r\nI haven't got any
    problem with your decision; my remarks have nothing to do with what you bring
    up. To each his/her own, it's up to you to decide where to buy your fonts. Your
    reasoning exemplifies the nature of free commerce in a competitive market -- if
    you don't like the policy of a certain vendor you spend your buck elsewhere.\r\n\r\nI'm
    just reacting against the initial message in this thread. Frankly this whole thread
    seems like it's been started as a malignant effort to manipulate public opinion,
    and the whole basic premise is ridiculous. Let everyone decide for themselves
    how to run their business. And if they do it the wrong way the dynamics of the
    market will make sure they'll either have to adapt or go bankrupt."
  created: '2008-11-20 16:23:12'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "<em>Overhead??? A few mouse clicks is hardly overhead.</em>\r\n\r\nMikey,
    you know I like you, but that must be the absolute <em>dumbest</em> remark I've
    heard in a long while. I even won't go into this. Let me just ask if you ever
    wondered how much time and budget went into designing, developing and coding the
    website where you do those \"few mouse clicks\", and how much it costs to constantly
    improve upon it, update it and keep it running smoothly? And what about the people
    on the other side of the line who are ready to reply to your every question and
    find solutions to your problems?"
  created: '2008-11-20 16:29:07'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "<em>Didn\u2019t one of Typophile\u2019s users recently describe Erik Spiekermann
    as \u201Ca stingy man\u201D ? Yes, it was that Japanese person I can\u2019t recall
    the screen name of who said that, and he was branded as \u201Cmean-spirited\u201D
    for having the temerity to say it. Surely FontShop\u2019s inflexible sales policy
    regarding font family purchases is mean-spirited?</em>\r\n\r\nSo one clueless
    nonce calls Erik a \"stingy man\" and this suddenly exemplifies both the man and
    the company he helped start up (BTW he hasn't been officially part of the organisation
    since quite a while). Who is being mean-spirited here?"
  created: '2008-11-20 16:32:45'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "<em>When I talked to Teresa at FontShop concerning ordering parts of Clifford
    and then if I would get discounted when I purchase the whole entire thing\u2013
    she told me no\u2013 they don\u2019t do that.\r\n\r\nSo FontShop is off the list
    for me.</em>\r\n\r\nMikey, I <em>really</em> resent this remark, especially since
    I'm part of their Research Team and we've spent considerable time looking up fonts,
    compiling extensive lists of options and offering alternatives to people who may
    very well <em>never</em> buy at FontShop for all I know. The sales and support
    people also are always forthcoming, but it's just that this is the FontShop sales
    policy, period.\r\n\r\nWhen I started out the only option was to purchase the
    complete volume at one and a half times to twice the price fonts cost now. The
    situation has improved in such a way that over the past decades fonts became much
    cheaper and now you can purchase single fonts or have numerous configurations
    of font volumes to choose from. Some foundries don't even go through the trouble
    of offering single fonts. So what's the complaining all about?"
  created: '2008-11-20 16:54:02'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: BTW Mikey, so FontShop just is good enough to subscribe to their mailings
    and to get free stuff sent to you, but otherwise they are off the list for you?
    Seems like they are spending more money on you than you are on them. ;^)
  created: '2008-11-20 16:56:40'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "James A.: <em>Why does everything have to be viewed in black & white around
    here?</em>\r\n\r\nWell, ask yourself. Or how would you describe your policy of
    not even considering buying at a certain distributor because they offer some typefaces
    (by different foundries, mind!) that you don't like?\r\n\r\nI'd say <em>that's</em>
    black and white thinking."
  created: '2008-11-20 17:44:25'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "Perhaps a subscription model would be interesting for people who don't really
    need the fonts, but want to \"collect\" them as it were (that's how I read Mike's
    \"I plan on get the rest of Odile and starting in on National.\").\r\n\r\nReceive
    a new weight every month until the family's complete and pay the discounted package
    price in monthly instalments :)"
  created: '2008-11-20 17:51:29'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Yves\r\n\r\n\"The situation has improved in such a way that over the past
    decades fonts became much cheaper and now you can purchase single fonts or have
    numerous configurations of font volumes to choose from.\"\r\n\r\nA very valid
    and telling statement. When I entered the field at a type house the prices for
    a font were outrageous by our standards, not to mention the machinery you would
    have to have had. Fast forward a couple of decades and I giggle at someone whining
    at paying 19.95 for a font, much less a couple of hundred dollars for the full
    family. Discount or no discount!\r\n\r\nFlat out... type is a bargain!\r\n\r\nMichael\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-20 17:52:16'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "I think that Spiekermann thread was just a wind up.\r\n\r\nI\u2019ll say
    that in world of FU phone-tree disinformation that every single font vendor I\u2019ve
    worked with, from the big A down the line, has been been amazingly accommodating
    and totally available. How they price the fonts is up to them. As an independent
    designer, I can attest that having a system in place that minimizes the book keeping
    and clerical time is a must. So what if a smaller foundry doesn't follow every
    pricing trend. I need what they make, and I'm glad to have so many options for
    testing and experimentation, often in advance of a purchase."
  created: '2008-11-20 18:00:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...type is a bargain!</em>\r\n\r\nRight, the glyph sets we're putting
    in fonts these days are ridiculous.\r\nThe cost per glyph is miniscule.\r\nSure,
    people might not need all those foreign languages, and small caps in some weights
    may never get used, but they're there."
  created: '2008-11-20 18:13:54'
- author:
    name: theterrible
    picture: 111271
  body: "We appreciate all of the feedback on our sales policies. \r\n\r\nVillage's
    Taste Test program is indeed enticing from a customer perspective, and I wouldn't
    begrudge anybody who chooses to shop there because of it. But one thing to consider
    is that FontShop currently carries fonts from 66 foundries and growing, while
    Vllg carries 10; formulating a new sales policy with collaboration and unanimity
    amongst so many parties is quite a task. This is most likely why the standard
    among font resellers is a simpler model than Village's exception. And as has been
    mentioned, we feel that we do give back to our customers, and the community as
    a whole, in the form of such offerings as Font Magazine, FontBooklet, FontStruct.com,
    FontFeed, newsletters, etc. \r\n\r\nThat said, we certainly take customer opinion
    seriously, and we'll continue to have internal discussions regarding this particular
    point of sales policy. We'll keep the community posted if any changes are made
    down the road.\r\n\r\nIvan\r\n\r\nFontShop Sales & Support\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-20 18:45:39'
- author:
    name: RahimSnow
    picture: 114570
  body: "Some observations:\r\n\r\n* I started this post to highlight what one foundry
    is doing that is appealing to those who of us that have limited budgets.  I invite
    you to re-read my own words from the beginning.\r\n\r\n* In my second post, I
    explicitly said that even though I admire Village for their \"taste test\" policy,
    it does not mean that I diss other foundries for not having a similar policy.\r\n\r\n*
    I respect how FontShop, Veer, ShinnType, OurType, Type-Together, and so many others
    conduct their business.  If they don't have a similar policy, it's not as helpful
    to me as Village's policy, but so be it.  I still love their work and the amazing
    talent of the designers.  I will still purchase fonts from them.  Some other posters
    on this thread will not.  Can you identify the difference between my approach
    and theirs?\r\n\r\n* I did not use the \"times are tough, lower your prices\"
    argument.  What I said was, in these difficult economic times, a policy like Village's
    Taste Test upgrade policy was appealing and friendly.  \r\n\r\nI'm not *telling*
    other foundries how to price their fonts.  The whole thread started as a conversation
    about what type of purchasing and upgarding policy might be helpful to the limited-budget
    consumer.  At no point have I wanted Village to \"lower\" its prices because I
    think their prices are too high.  It's about the upgrading policy, not the prices.
    It's a subtle distinction but I hope it can be discerned.\r\n\r\n* There's this
    idea that if you don't like my business policy, spend your money elsewhere.  But
    don't try to have a conversation with me about it.  Any such conversation can
    only be \"a malignant effort to manipulate public opinion.\"\r\n\r\nWell, no one
    is lining up outside your office with pitch forks and torches.  This is a forum.
    \ This is a place to have conversations.  It's not just about markets and money,
    it's also about ideas and conversations and exchanges and partnerships and the
    acknowledgment that we are all living in a mutually interdependent ecosystem.
    \  \r\n\r\nEvery new idea was once considered \"a malignant effort to manipulate
    public opinion\" and those who spearheaded these kinds of efforts were quickly
    given a hemlock latte with extra whip.\r\n\r\nIt is simply not helpful to tell
    us to \"stop whining, get a life, get a job, etc\": essentially, drink your hemlock
    and shut up.\r\n\r\nNo one is threatening you and your business and your right
    to earn a living.  Please proceed as usual, and much success to you.  Live and
    let live.\r\n\r\nMy original intent/suggestion was actually very simple:\r\n\r\nVillage's
    Taste Test policy, wonderful idea, wonder if other foundries already do something
    similar, wonder if it helps us make more purchases and helps them make more money
    and support their business efforts.\r\n\r\nWonder if we could create more win-win
    situations in the typeface purchasing world through ideas *like* this, not necessarily
    identical to this?\r\n\r\nI sincerely hope I have been clear about my position.\r\n\r\nRahim"
  created: '2008-11-20 18:59:52'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "That's not exactly how I interpreted your original post, but it's possible
    that the content of some of the comments tainted my experience of this thread.
    Fair enough, point taken -- I apologize for giving the impression laying it in
    on you personally. I was reacting to a multitude of comments, some of which were
    quite mean-spirited and inflammatory in my opinion.\r\n\r\nJust to be clear --
    it's not \"my\" business and \"my\" right of living I'm defending: I don't design
    nor sell type, so nobody\u2019s going to line up at \"my\" office anyway. I just
    happen to personally know a whole lot of people who exercise that profession,
    and I'm <em>so</em> fed up with the recurring attacks on how they choose to earn
    their livelihood. You just have the misfortune of having started one too many
    such a thread.\r\n\r\nAnd can somebody <em>please</em> explain to me why nobody
    is picketing the offices of the movie companies because you don't get a refund
    when you buy a deluxe triple-disc DVD with all the trimmings when you already
    bought a VHS tape of that same movie years ago? Or a refund from the restaurant
    when you notice you're still hungry after eating your starters and you order an
    additional dish?"
  created: '2008-11-20 19:24:24'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Nick\r\n\r\nI checked with the owner of the typehouse I worked for in the
    early 80's. He said he remembered paying between 100 and 200 for each font for
    the typositor. Glad I am doing what I am doing when I am doing it.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-11-20 19:46:00'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "Something else I'd like somebody to please explain to me; I'll give an example:
    \r\n\r\nLet's say I first license Sansa Light. Turns out I need additional weights,
    so I purchase a license for the Sansa 1 volume. And demand a partial refund. But
    then I need even more weights, and I purchase a license for the Sansa Family.
    And demand a partial refund. My client branches out in Central Europe, so I need
    to purchase a license for Sansa Professional. And demand a partial refund. But
    then I want to diversify the design a bit, and I purchase a license for Sansa
    Soft. And demand a partial refund. At some point I need a serif face to match
    all of those, and I purchase a license for Sansa Slab. And demand a partial refund.\r\n\r\nHow
    the flying firetruck do you expect anyone to keep track of this unholy mess? It's
    fairly simple if you are a boutique type shop like Village and it's great that
    they offer this, but for a large font vendor this is a card-carrying logistic
    nightmare."
  created: '2008-11-20 19:49:50'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "\"Flying firetruck\" FTW! I am so using that phrase! \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-20 20:07:54'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: "I think Rahim was asking a simple question, and I think it's a good one.
    I think this program encourages future purchases. \r\n\r\n\"Sure, people might
    not need all those foreign languages, and small caps in some weights may never
    get used, but they\u2019re there.\"\r\n\r\nIs there any way to offer \"basic\"
    versions of these typefaces, with Latin-only character sets? I understand that
    font companies need to recoup the man-hours for drawing all those glyphs, but
    passing the cost on to users who don't need Cyrillic, or extended sets will keep
    me from buying some of these new OT fonts. Meta Basic is a good example. $528
    for book, italic, bold, bold italic for the sans and serif seems steep to me.
    I'm not saying they're not worth it, but I've noticed prices going up, and I'm
    assuming it's partially due to the extensive number of glyphs."
  created: '2008-11-20 20:09:04'
- author:
    name: theterrible
    picture: 111271
  body: 'Chris, there is indeed a Latin-only version of [[http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/fontfont/ff_meta_serif_sans_ot_basic_suite/|the
    Meta Basic Suite]], which costs $458. '
  created: '2008-11-20 20:24:40'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: Thanks for the info.
  created: '2008-11-20 20:28:15'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "Just was told a funny one over iChat:\r\n\r\n\"Dear Apple, I have a G3 --
    do I get a refund when I purchase a MacBook Pro?\" :^D"
  created: '2008-11-20 20:32:51'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: No but they will recycle it for free.
  created: '2008-11-20 20:35:17'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "Touch\xE9. ;^)"
  created: '2008-11-20 20:43:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Is there any way to offer \u201Cbasic\u201D versions of these typefaces,
    with Latin-only character sets? </em>\r\n\r\nThere are all kinds of different
    character sets and glyph sets available from different foundries.\r\nFor instance,
    I sell \"Standard\" versions of Paradigm for $9, with Latin Extended-A character
    set; the Pro versions are $59 and have the same characters, but lots of OpenType
    features. So the idea is that people can \"buy and try\" the $9 fonts and upgrade
    to the $59 ones, the price of the original being relatively negligible so that
    there's no need for a refund."
  created: '2008-11-20 20:49:42'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Nick, if one of your customers needed to get rid of an old Type 1 font in
    an environmentally sensitive way would you be willing to take care of that, say,
    if the font was emailed to you, at no cost.
  created: '2008-11-20 20:59:12'
- author:
    name: RahimSnow
    picture: 114570
  body: "Re: Sansa Light and Flying Firetrucks\r\n\r\nYves, I see the conundrum in
    the scenario you've painted.\r\n\r\nHere's how Village handles the recently refreshed
    Galaxie Polaris v3:\r\n\r\n<cite>Family $249.00</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>Upgrade from
    v1 or v2 $50.00</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>Galaxie Polaris Superset $399.00 (Galaxie
    Polaris & Galaxie Polaris Condensed)</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>Upgrade from v1 or v2
    to Superset $149.00</cite>\r\n\r\nDo people find these kind of upgrade options
    helpful, easy to do business with, etc?\r\n\r\nRahim\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-20 21:00:15'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: 'Go where the deal stands out!  Village sounds like the right place to turn
    to for fonts.  '
  created: '2008-11-20 21:45:36'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: 'Fontshop is great! '
  created: '2008-11-20 21:56:22'
- author:
    name: Nicole Dotin
    picture: 110879
  body: "As Sharon mentioned earlier, we (Process Type Foundry) have the same policy
    as Vllg where if you buy a single weight and want to add to it later from the
    same family, we'll deduct the previous purchase price. We do this for other combos,
    too, not just singles. This is one of the reasons we're happy to publish our own
    typefaces so we can control our policies when fonts our sold through our website.
    But, the benefit of having a contained library to deal with (rather than 66 foundries
    worth of stuff) is that we can relatively easily manage this sort of thing. We
    simply have previous customers contact us and we use a coupon in our cart system.
    Some day we'd like to develop an even easier system.\r\n\r\nAnd, we also offered
    the same sort of discounted upgrade prices mentioned about Galaxie Polaris v3
    when we released Bryant 2. People certainly take advantage of it, but it isn't
    an overwhelming response or something that is a burden. Again, this is the advantage
    of self-publishing - control. However, there are drawbacks to self-publishing,
    just as there are wonderful advantages to having a place like FontShop sell your
    work.\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-20 22:03:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Nick, if one of your customers needed to get rid of an old Type 1 font
    in an environmentally sensitive way would you be willing to take care of that,
    say, if the font was emailed to you, at no cost.</em>\r\n\r\nHmm. First might
    have to conduct an audit of my server farm's footprint."
  created: '2008-11-20 22:25:20'
- author:
    name: agarzola
    picture: 115831
  body: "@Bald Condensed\r\nPeople do, in fact, complain about not only special-edition
    DVD collections of movies previously sold separately, but also multi-season TV
    series packages. Go to Amazon and read to your heart's content how many Seinfeld
    fans that bought every season separately when it came out are pissed that now
    the only way to get the additional bonus materials offered in the latest and greatest
    Seinfeld-collection-to-end-all-Seinfeld-collections is to purchase seasons already
    in their home libraries. I don't know if they're literally picketing, but I'm
    relatively confident nobody's literally picketing at the FontShop doorsteps.\r\n\r\nAdditionally,
    both the DVD and restaurant arguments are inadequate, at best, and I'm sure someone
    here can come up with way better examples to help illustrate your point. The reason
    I say they are inadequate is both the DVDs and appetizers are physical objects
    that the seller can only sell once. Sure, then can sell a lot *of* them, but each
    one is a particular object that gets prepared/manufactured and delivered individually.
    Font files, on the other hand, are generated once and need to be delivered multiple
    times, but the \"manufacturing process\" does not need to be repeated. Please
    bear in mind I'm NOT saying this to mean that font files should then be considered
    lacking worth. What I'm saying is that, for the sake of debate and making your
    point, comparing font products to physical products like food or DVDs is anything
    but adequate, because the value of digital files is measured differently.\r\n\r\nWhat\u2019s
    more, your restaurant example actually helps make an argument for exactly the
    opposite of what you're defending. Why? The price of the main course doesn't include
    what I already had and am being charged for. It's an entirely different product
    that doesn't try to sell me what I already ate. If you found out that the price
    for your hamburger includes the cheese fries you already ate and are already getting
    charged for, you would protest. Same goes for your clever friend's \u2018G3->MacBook
    Pro\u2019 comment. You don't get a G3 included with your MacBook Pro purchase.
    You do, however, get the font you already purchased a year ago included in the
    family pack you're purchasing right now.\r\n\r\nAgain, <strong>I'm not saying
    it's <em>wrong</em></strong> not to offer something similar to what Village offers
    its customers. Not at all. I think the \u2018no upgrade\u2019 model is OK. I'm
    simply pointing out that your arguments are doing anything but help illustrate
    your point, and in fact help illustrate its pitfalls.\r\n\r\n@Everyone else having
    a silly little hissy fit:\r\nI'd like to remind you of an example that does indeed
    apply very, very effectively to the \u2018single font->font family\u2019 upgrade
    scenario. Software licensing. Most (and I think it's safe to say: an overwhelming
    majority of) software developers/vendors offer upgrades to the latest version
    of their software products for a lower price than the full, no-upgrade version.
    In fact, I'd say most consumers (technologically inclined or otherwise) see software
    upgrades as a normal, everyday fact of life: If you already bought the software
    at full price, you can upgrade to the latest version with a discount.\r\n\r\nWhile
    I realize that few fonts actually go through an actual \u2018upgrade\u2019 or
    \u2018versioning\u2019 process comparable to software development, the comparison
    holds water when you consider the following:\r\n\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>what type designers
    are selling is not the design itself, but a license to use the <em>software</em>
    that packages the typeface design into a usable set of glyphs that can be set
    by any typesetting program</li>\r\n<li>the exact code that makes up the \"Regular\"
    weight I purchased a year ago is present in the \"Family Package\" I intend to
    purchase today (this, of course, is not always the case, but I'd be willing to
    bet it describes an overwhelming majority of the cases), which helps make the
    argument that a customer is, indeed, paying twice for the very same, exact, precise
    thing, much like parts of the code that make up my current copy of InDesign CS3
    are present in CS4 (and thus, I'll get a discount when I decide to upgrade)</li>\r\n<li>some
    software vendors offer \u2018lite\u2019 and \u2018pro\u2019 versions of their
    products\u2026 guess what you usually get when you decide to purchase the pro
    version after having purchased and tested the lite version? You guessed it: a
    discount! Again: not always the case, but extremely common (I'd almost call it
    the norm).</li>\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\nAnd let's not forget: software upgrades are ubiquitous
    in the industry. You'll see them everywhere, from Adobe and Microsoft to the small
    one-developer outfit that some programmer is running from his or her guestroom
    during his or her free time from the day job, and everything in between. So this
    <em>the size of my company makes it so that trying something like this would destroy
    everything I've worked so hard for</em> argument, whether it be <em>I'm too small
    to implement it</em> or the hilarious <em>we're too big to implement it</em>,
    is \u2014in a word\u2014 bullshit. Say you don't like it; say you don't agree
    with it; hell, say it is an insult to typeface designers the world over. But don't
    treat it like such a strange notion that's impossible to apply an organization
    such as yours because you're too small, or too big. Unless you mean your <em>ego</em>
    is too big. In that case, you'll have my support.\r\n\r\nWhile I understood Rahim's
    intention correctly from the beginning (<em>let's talk about different alternatives
    to the traditional mainstream model in the spirit of innovation and furthering
    the typeface design industry and market</em>), I find it rather revealing to see
    some type designers adopt a very aggressive attitude right from the get go. Some
    people need to wedge out that huge pilcrow they have lodged in their shoulder.
    So you're a type designer. Big deal. You run a business, like a lot of other people,
    and talking about pricing alternatives to offer your clients/customers shouldn't
    be such a nerve-wrecking experience for you."
  created: '2008-11-20 22:27:47'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'BTW: The only way to buy Fontshop fonts in Norway is via www.luth.no, which
    is a truly miserable website. And the prices doesn''t really appeal neither.'
  created: '2008-11-20 22:30:30'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: And please forgive my bitching! ;) I'm just tired.
  created: '2008-11-20 22:49:11'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "@Bald Condensed - i was simply using the iTunes digital music store as an
    example of how  my buying habits have changed since songs became software. \r\n\r\nif
    fonts were still mostly distributed on cd, then i think your point would be more
    accurate, but since they are mostly available as a digital download, the iTunes
    analogy is more accurate. \r\n\r\ni do not expect music (or fonts) to be free.
    if people choose to give their creations away, that's their choice and i will
    look into them, but i much prefer quality, and will pay for it. the crux of this
    is paying for the same file twice, not paying at all. i want the support and features
    that 'pro' fonts provide, so will happily pay for them.\r\n\r\nand i do get frustrated
    when i have to buy songs again that i've already bought as part of another ep/single/etc
    cause one they are in my iTunes player i just delete the duplicates anyway, so
    it feels like a waste. \r\n\r\nand to be clear, i like FontShop. I will buy from
    them. And i love the ammount of support they give the type community - and customers
    - through all their efforts. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-21 00:07:18'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Hello all:\r\n\r\nFirst I would like to clarify a few things. Yves, I still
    like you too :-)\r\n\r\nI spoke with Teresa at FontShop prior to this thread coming
    up. I called because I had the <em>intention</em> to actually buy type\u2014Clifford
    Nine Pro. $65. Then perhaps later on in the month I would get the 9 italic and
    then the following month the 18 and so on. Eventually, I would nab the whole thing.
    Politely, she told me \u201Cwe don\u2019t do that\u201D and told me purchasing
    the entire package will give me a discount. That would have been my first FontShop
    purchase.\r\n\r\nFine.\r\n\r\nWhat I did purchased instead?...\r\n\r\nThe excellent
    Vincent Banner from Carter & Cone... Vincent is what Times should be!!! \r\nAustralis
    from Latinotype... this one has excellent kerning. BUY IT NOW!!!!!\r\nThe entire
    Ascender Miramonte Pro, which is excellent (If Futura and Metro had a baby this
    would be it.)\r\nAscender\u2019s Ayita which is nice too.\r\nMVB Magnesium Regular\r\nMVB
    Condensed\r\nI also bought MVB Chanson d\u2019Amour.\r\n\r\nOther people got my
    business.\r\n\r\nI do love many of the excellent FontFont Originals. However,
    I seldom (just about never) spend more that a 150 at time on type in one month.
    That\u2019s how I roll.\r\n\r\nI also prefer to buy directly from the designer/indie.
    For example. If I was to purchase Vista Sans. I would not put an order in with
    FontShop. I would call Emigre directly so the designer/foundry would get the full
    profit. Similarly, I would not place an order with Fonts.com to buy Clifford Pro.
    Akira would get a whopping 3 bucks after all the overhead. \r\n\r\nAnyhow, 65
    dollars or 130 or whatever the amount, <em>I will not be penalized in anyway for
    being a customer</em>. I won\u2019t let Adobe do it, FontShop, nor Joe-Blow-Down-The-Block
    Fonts. I never have let them do it. <em>That\u2019s my policy!</em> I feel good
    about that.\r\n\r\nReflecting back, I was one of those people who thought $19
    was too much for a font. I thought Font Bureau was too much too and many others.
    While, I don\u2019t feel that way now. I also know what my budget is and if that
    means that I can only buy a few fonts, then fine. I\u2019ll make it clear- I better
    not be disadvantaged in anyway.\r\n\r\nIf the foundry does not make an allowance
    for my buying pattern of a $100 or less an month\u2014 then I will look for alternatives.
    While others are willing say their okay with the extra loss, I\u2019ll be clear.
    I HATE IT, AND EVERYONE ELSE SHOULD CHANGE! There, I said it.\r\n\r\nI won\u2019t
    save up for type either... that\u2019s too much overhead for <em>me</em>!\r\n\r\nTellingly,
    Yves Peters works for FontShop. Nick Shinn\u2014 shinnfonts. It is no surprise
    this discussion would not appeal to folks who are invested (mentally or otherwise)
    in keeping things the way they are. Dalton Maag let Aller Sans go public\u2014not
    cool with Nick. Adobe bundles type with creative suite\u2014 bad for the business
    say Nick. Ellen Lupton free font manifesto\u2014Yves no likey. \r\n\r\nBut I am
    willing to buy from everyone in the way I demand\u2014that\u2019s all. \r\n\r\nFor
    Yves and Nick>\r\n\r\nIt took, Village 90 seconds to deal with a customer like
    myself. FontShop has much more money and staff behind it than Village, too bad
    for FontShop if they can\u2019t do what Vllg does. A conditional pricing table
    engine (I made that term up) does not sound any more complex than the baroque
    webpage design and programming for FontShop.com. Hire some one! So your example
    of Sansa would be something Vllg can certainly handle\u2014and FontShop, if they
    wanted too?. Also Vllg is no pushover, I wanted to purchase Dolly in parts but
    I couldn\u2019t... I don\u2019t want them to be painted as desperate for business
    in comparison to the larger guys. Vllg is smaller, yet smarter and more flexible.
    I have purchased a style of Odile and the Merlo family. They will <em>always</em>
    get my business because they have made allowance for <em>me</em>\u2014my needs...
    that\u2018s personal service in case you did not know. Chester was also nice to
    talk to. If you re-read his post you can discern he obviously loves his customers.\r\n\r\nAlso
    you said what FontShop\u2019s policy is\u2014no exceptions, but Rahim said he
    bought some fonts and he planned to buy more. FontShop said they would discount
    if it was within the month... why not extend beyond that? Teresa or whoever can
    easily look up my account and charge accordingly. \r\n\r\nMalignant or not, I
    hope this thread does influence other foundries to change their policies. There
    has been enough outcry regarding PDF embedding that its not longer an issue for
    most of my purchases. See... whining does help!\r\n\r\nWhen I happened to have
    a surplus of $300 some time in the future I will give give FontShop a ringy-dingy\u2014on
    the list again.\r\n\r\nSpeaking of stingy... look that word up in the dictionary\u2014you\u2019ll
    see my face. The picture will be kinda light to save money on the ink. I didn\u2019t
    smile\u2014that costs extra.\r\nI\u2019m the guy you take shopping for a car or
    a house. \r\n\r\nNO BODY BEATS MIKEY!\r\n\r\nAkira, I love you, but the policies
    get in the way :-(\r\n\r\nMike Diaz\t\r\n\r\nPS I... In my FontShop account, where
    you can receive special discounts or offers... I have yet to get a single one.\r\n\r\nPS
    II... Jens>>> Yes, I collect. I collect fine art, type, sneakers (over 30 right
    now). A subscription model is intriguing."
  created: '2008-11-21 00:42:15'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "oh and a suggestion on keeping track of the orders:\r\n\r\nusing the sansa
    example, if the customer was given a code when they make each purchase, they could
    then just enter the code (like what FSI has now for discounts) and the cart will
    deduct the correct amount. \r\n\r\nit's simple and helps everyone keep track of
    things. \r\n\r\neg: \r\n\r\nLet\u2019s say I first license Sansa Light. I get
    a Code: SANSALGT\r\n\r\nTurns out I need additional weights, so I purchase a license
    for the Sansa 1 volume, and enter the code: SANSALGT to get the light cost deducted.
    I now get new code: SANSAVOL1\r\n\r\nBut then I need even more weights, and I
    purchase a license for the Sansa Family. I enter code: SANSAVOL1 and get the volume
    1 price i've already paid, deducted. I get new code: SANSAFAM\r\n\r\nMy client
    branches out in Central Europe, so I need to purchase a license for Sansa Professional.
    i enter SANSAFAM and get the deduction like before. new code: SANSAPRO\r\n\r\nBut
    then I want to diversify the design a bit, and I purchase a license for Sansa
    Soft. i would not enter a code here, unless sansa soft is part of a super pack
    that includes all the sansa varieties. \r\n\r\nAt some point I need a serif face
    to match all of those, and I purchase a license for Sansa Slab. same as sansa
    soft.\r\n\r\nlook at how village handle this with the Stag and Stag Sans families:\r\nhttp://vllg.com/Schwartzco/Stag/mudTyper+Weights/\r\n\r\nwhen
    my work upgraded from the the Stag family to the Stag Superset, then to the SuperDuperset
    we only paid the difference from what we had already paid. It made my boss  more
    willing to buy."
  created: '2008-11-21 00:47:27'
- author:
    name: theplatypus
    picture: 115609
  body: "I've been a fan of vllg.com since Glaxie Polaris.  The taste test is great!
    \ I believe such a business model is critical for return customers.\r\n\r\ndaniel"
  created: '2008-11-21 00:50:15'
- author:
    name: RahimSnow
    picture: 114570
  body: "Alfonso,\r\n\r\nYour eloquent, substantive, and psychologically insightful
    post summarizes, develops, and reinforces the spirit of thinking outside the box
    that I was trying to capture in my original post.\r\n\r\nThank you.\r\n\r\nRahim\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-21 01:43:08'
- author:
    name: agarzola
    picture: 115831
  body: "Always glad to help point out what \u2014to me\u2014 should be obvious."
  created: '2008-11-21 02:21:01'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Mikey - you're a smart guy, but so much of what you've said in this thread
    is misinformed that I simply can't respond to the sheer volume of it all just
    now.\r\n\r\nI do recognize many of your frustrations, though. FontShop hates to
    hear that a customer is unhappy and we'll certainly do our best to address the
    situation. We have looked into the feasibility of single-to-package discounts
    and we'll continue to work on a solution. I'd be interested to hear if the other
    major resellers offer such a discount.\r\n\r\nWhat might shed some light on the
    crux of this discussion is what Nicole said:\r\n\r\n> There are drawbacks to self-publishing,
    just as there are wonderful advantages to having a place like FontShop sell your
    work.\r\n\r\nThe difference between a foundry or small retailer like Village and
    a reseller like FontShop is important and there will always be initiatives that
    one or the other does best. I tried to summarize some of these in my <a href=\"http://typographica.org/001157.php\">post
    on Typographica</a> yesterday."
  created: '2008-11-21 02:29:05'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "@Stephen Coles - and you did a great job of that too.\r\n\r\nTo everyone
    else - no one has really mentioned their experiences with other 'big' companies
    like linotype, monotype etc. Does anyone know their take on all this?"
  created: '2008-11-21 03:12:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Mikey, your analysis of me is a bit off.\r\nI haven't criticized Adobe for
    bundling for several years, I've moved on, my philosophy has changed.\r\nI don't
    recall criticizing Dalton Maag for \"letting Aller go public\"--I asked Bruno
    if his strategy might not backfire, as I was interested in his thinking.\r\nI'm
    not \"invested in keeping things the way they are\", I'm a contrarian making debate
    on Typophile.\r\nOr would you rather we stick to glossing and puffery?\r\nNow
    I've seen both sides of the argument developed I've decided to join the rebate
    offerers.\r\nAdmittedly, only for direct sales at Shinntype, if my resellers can't
    handle it..\r\nBut it will be an incentive for people to licence directly (with
    a larger percentage of the price staying with me).\r\nI can't do the kind of marketing
    programs that the top resellers do, but this would be something I could perhaps
    implement."
  created: '2008-11-21 03:24:24'
- author:
    name: RahimSnow
    picture: 114570
  body: "Nick,\r\n\r\nThank you for taking the time to see both sides of the argument.
    \ That in itself is most appreciated.\r\n\r\nThe fact that you will be implementing
    a rebate that makes sense to you and your customers is just a big bright cherry
    on top.\r\n\r\nThank you very much.\r\n\r\nRahim\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-21 03:52:09'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: '@nick - awesome!'
  created: '2008-11-21 05:33:52'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Coles>>> Well it\u2019s either my characterization of Yves and Nick. Or the
    idea of  \u201Cconditional pricing table engine\u201D (which does exist some where
    in some fashion). Or perhaps you think I\u2019m unaware that such thing would
    take ginormous effort/expense to implement at your backend so FontShop can actually
    make <em>less</em> money. Or did I some how mis-understand the policy? The reason
    FontShop has come up in this thread so often from myself and others\u2014we are
    fans.\r\n\r\nNick>>> Honestly, I don\u2019t believe a word you just said. Putting
    in a slightly different way than Muzzer\u2014your outburst conveyed your true
    feelings. <em>Now your really glossing.</Em> Reading between yours and Yves comments
    I smelled fear. Fear of change. Fear of loss. Fear of loosing your station. Status
    quo. Perhaps I\u2019m contrary to those who are contrary those pro-consumerist.
    It\u2019s so clearly apparent that those that sell and those that buy will always
    be at odds. Ying-Yang? I\u2019m a staunch supporter for my side. But just know
    one day that if I plan on buying a Shinn font it would be direct because I always
    felt my purchase supports the artist so you get the most money.\r\n\r\nAlfonso>>>
    BINGO! Dead on!\r\n\r\nMike Diaz"
  created: '2008-11-21 05:34:24'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: '@Mike - why is it so hard to believe that people can change their minds?
    if nick believes adopting a certain business model will increase his sales, even
    if he originally didn''t see the value of it, then he would be silly to not adopt
    it because of pride, or something else. I think it says a lot about nick''s personality
    that he will be open to looking into things. '
  created: '2008-11-21 05:54:00'
- author:
    name: RahimSnow
    picture: 114570
  body: "Stephen,\r\n\r\nI acknowledge and appreciate that FontShop is looking into
    these things and will continue to work on a solution.  And I also acknowledge
    that being a reseller of many other foundries comes with its own overhead & complexities.
    \ I don't pretend to understand all of them, but I can't help but wonder and I
    hope you'll indulge me in this thought experiment...\r\n\r\nWhat about fonts that
    are FontShop originals like FF Meta, FF Meta Serif, etc?  Could some \"taste test\"-ish
    model be applied to them, without requiring all your guest foundries to observe
    the same rules?\r\n\r\nA logo could clearly distinguish between one of your original
    fonts that comes with a taste test policy and another foundry's font where the
    same upgrade policy is not available.  Sort of like when Amazon.com has a \"Look
    Inside\" logo on some books and not on others, just to give a conceptual and not
    a directly related example.\r\n\r\nAlso: if this model helps to support not just
    profitability, but a closer rapport with your customers since many of us have
    felt ourselves leaning a little more closely to those foundries that have such
    taste test policies, would that type of customer loyalty not have its own value?
    \ And, at some point in the future, could this not make a strong case for other
    foundries to give the model a shot?\r\n\r\nI thank you in advance for discussing
    internally and possibly exploring a solution that works admirably for all parties
    involved.\r\n\r\nRahim\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-21 07:28:18'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "> <em>It\u2019s simple and helps everyone keep track of things.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm
    not saying it <em>can't</em> work, but saying \"it's simple\" is trivialising
    the logistics involved for large vendors, and comparing them with small, easy-to-manage
    outfits is an unfair comparison. Here's another example to show you it's not as
    simple as some want to make it seem:\r\n\r\nOurType single font : \u20AC40\r\n\r\nFresco
    1 : \u20AC150 = 6 fonts\r\nFresco 2 : \u20AC150 = 6 fonts\r\nFresco 3 : \u20AC150
    = 6 fonts\r\nFresco 4 : \u20AC150 = 6 fonts\r\nFresco 5 : \u20AC150 = 6 fonts\r\n\r\nFresco
    Family : \u20AC525 = 30 Fonts\r\n\r\nSo if I buy 15 singles over a period of time
    I paid \u20AC600. Does this mean that if I need the remaining 15 then OurType
    should deliver me the Fresco Family and return \u20AC75 on my bank account?"
  created: '2008-11-21 09:55:09'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "> <em>Reading between yours and Yves comments I smelled fear. Fear of change.
    Fear of loss. Fear of loosing your station. Status quo.</em>\r\n\r\nYou obviously
    misread -- that was anger, not fear. The only thing I fear for my friends, colleagues
    and acquaintances is loss of income. I think the general perception of the type
    industry and specifically the profit margins is seriously skewed. The denomination
    \"large\" in large vendors refers to the number of foundries in their catalogue,
    certainly not the size of the operations. Furthermore a font costs less than a
    pair of Nikes, they are not produced for a couple of cents in a sweatshop in South
    East Asia, and the volumes sold are but a fraction of what Nike sells. It's not
    like FontShop or Veer rake in millions and have battalions of web developers at
    their beck and call."
  created: '2008-11-21 10:50:40'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "> <em>Also: if this model helps to support not just profitability, but a
    closer rapport with your customers (...)</em>\r\n\r\nI'll talk for FontShop now
    because I don't know in detail what the other large vendors do.\r\n\r\nYou mean
    the considerable budget FontShop invests in producing <a href=\"http://fontfeed.com/\">The
    FontFeed</a> -- an international blog with three (3!) editors and even more contributors
    --, the two local blogs <a href=\"\">Fontblog</a> and <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.be/\">Unzipped</a>,
    the free online font creation tool <a href=\"http://fontstruct.fontshop.com/>FontStruct</a>,
    <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/services/education/\">Education Pages</a>, <a
    href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/features/fontmag/007/\">Font Magazine</a>, <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/features/newsletters/oct08b/\">FontBooklets</a>,
    sponsoring <a href=\"http://www.typecon.com/\">TypeCon</a> and <a href=\"http://atypi.org/\">ATypI</a>
    amongst many others, and so on... all those things mean nothing when it comes
    to \"supporting a closer rapport with your customers\"?\r\n\r\nOh no, that's right,
    you are correct -- it's not for their customers, it's for the <em>entire community.</em>
    You don't even have to buy anything from FontShop to benefit from all this. :^)"
  created: '2008-11-21 11:18:13'
- author:
    name: agarzola
    picture: 115831
  body: "@Bald Condensed\r\n<em>Furthermore a font costs less than a pair of Nikes,
    they are not produced for a couple of cents in a sweatshop in South East Asia,
    and the volumes sold are but a fraction of what Nike sells.</em>\r\n\r\nAgain
    with the physical object comparison. So yeah, the Nikes cost \"a couple of cents\u2026\"
    <strong>each pair</strong>. They have to make millions of those, then ship them
    worldwide, get them to each distributor, which will then mark it up for the stores,
    who then have to physically store the flying firetrucking things until a happy
    customer just waltzes in and decides to pay the doubly marked up price. So, the
    <strong>actual cost</strong> of each sneaker is hardly \"a couple of cents\",
    when you consider distribution, storage and inventory costs. And then there's
    the marketing. Rake up the hundreds of millions of dollars spent on marketing
    the Nike brand (not to mention the ammount spent on marketing for each individual
    model).\r\n\r\nA typeface family, on the other hand, costs much, much more to
    produce, as you explained, but distribution and storage costs are, I dare say,
    negligible. And the marketing costs incurred by even the largest font vendors
    are hardly comparable to the huge monster that is Nike. So the initial investment
    in the product is considerably large, but you only create it once, and then copying
    it and delivering copies of it is <strong>so not an issue</strong>.\r\n\r\nAgain:
    I suggest you stop comparing font production/sales to the production/sales of
    physical objects that can only be sold once.\r\n\r\nPS. Did you get your \"couple
    of cents\" figure from the same source you got your \"nobody's complaining about
    special edition DVDs\" factoid? Or did it come from that friend your deem so clever,
    the G3/MacBook Pro smartass? Either way, I suggest you look into finding other,
    more grounded sources for your arguments. Or not\u2026"
  created: '2008-11-21 12:34:20'
- author:
    name: agarzola
    picture: 115831
  body: "@Bald Condensed\r\n<em>[\u2026]all those things mean nothing when it comes
    to \u201Csupporting a closer rapport with your customers\u201D?</em>\r\n\r\nWho
    said it means nothing? Rahim didn't. <strong>You did.</strong>\r\n\r\nSeriously:
    you need to chill out, man. It seems that any positive remark towards Village's
    taste test practice (which is what Rahim's comment is) is perceived as negative
    criticism towards FontShop's (and other large vendors') sales policies and practices
    within the industry.\r\n\r\nPersecution complexes are a bitch."
  created: '2008-11-21 12:54:15'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: very good points, alfonso. i may not agree completely with your argument style,
    but i agree 100% on all of your points. this problem is tough especially for AR,
    completist types who <em>have to have</em> every variation. Unfortunately, I haven't
    scraped together enough money yet to buy the entire Beorcana package, but someday...
    I'm putting off buying any until I can buy all because as i see it, there is actually
    <em>disincentive</em> to buy any of them without all the others (the glass is
    half empty, i'm sorry). this may actually hurt font sales if enough type licensors
    are operating in the manner as i do. one never knows until one trys a different
    tack. at least under discounted font selling schemes or by offering refunds you're
    <em>selling more fonts</em> to people who actually want to pay for licenses. Knowing
    that Vllg and Process have user-friendly pricing and buying schemes makes me want
    to return to them first if ever I want to license types I could get elsewhere.
  created: '2008-11-21 13:22:56'
- author:
    name: Jan Middendorp
    picture: 110288
  body: "My post about LucasFonts got a bit lost amid the loud & lengthy exchange
    of standpoints. So I'd like to repeat my point:\r\n\r\n<strong> Hey guys, there's
    a foundry that solved your problem long ago without much ado.</strong> \r\n\r\nNow
    go back to my earlier post and read it, please. \r\n\r\nCheers, \r\n\r\nJan"
  created: '2008-11-21 13:35:06'
- author:
    name: agarzola
    picture: 115831
  body: "@Bald Condensed\r\n<em>So if I buy 15 singles over a period of time I paid
    \u20AC600. Does this mean that if I need the remaining 15 then OurType should
    deliver me the Fresco Family and return \u20AC75 on my bank account?</em>\r\n\r\nNot
    quite that simple. This is what OurType actually offers:\r\n<dl>\r\n<dt>Fresco
    Light & LF Light\r\n<dd>\u20AC40\r\n<dt>Fresco SC Light\r\n<dd>\u20AC40\r\n<dt>Fresco
    Light Italic & LF Light Italic\r\n<dd>\u20AC40\r\n<dt>Fresco SC Light Italic\r\n<dd>\u20AC40\r\n\r\n</dl>\r\n<dl>\r\n<dt>Fresco
    1 package\r\n<dd>\u20AC150\r\n</dl>\r\n\r\nThe trick is: OurType lists the fonts
    included in the package as six separate products, which is kind of confusing (and
    of questionable intent, in <strong>my</strong> opinion). The truth is that the
    package is made up of four purchaseable items (the four listed above). The package
    lists <em>Fresco Light & LF Light</em> as <em>Fresco Light, Fresco LF Light</em>
    and <em> Fresco Light Italic & LF Light Italic</em> as <Fresco Light Italic, Fresco
    LF Light Italic</em>, which gives the wrong impression that purchasing Fresco
    1 package is equivalent to purchasing six separate \u20AC40 items, when in fact
    it is equivalent of purchasing four \u20AC40 items. When you buy the Fresco 1
    package, you might think you're saving \u20AC90 (\u20AC240 <em>vs.</em> \u20AC150),
    but you're really saving ten bucks (\u20AC160 <em>vs.</em> \u20AC150). Not that
    there's anything wrong with that; what's wrong is the (again, in <strong>my</strong>
    opinion) decidedly deceiving way the information is presented.\r\n\r\nSo the entire
    family is actually made up of twenty (20, <strong>not</strong> 30) individual
    \u20AC40 items. So if I purchased half of them individually over a period of time,
    I actually would have spent \u20AC400. Therefore, upgrading to a full family (were
    OurType to offer such an upgrade) would mean they get to charge me \u20AC125.
    No need for any ludicrous credits in my name, as you explained.\r\n\r\nOf course,
    any such \"upgrade\" feature is bound to find its limitations. Say I had purchased
    14 individual font files, incurring in a total expense of \u20AC560. Does that
    mean I should get a refund when I decide to get the remaining 6 font files that
    would complete my family? No, of course not. What it does mean is that as soon
    as I purchase my 13<em>th</em> file in the family (where the total cost would
    reach \u20AC520), the system would alert me to the opportunity to purchase the
    remaining family members for an additional \u20AC5 (thus completing the \u20AC525
    family pack purchase price).\r\n\r\nAnd why not? If type designers and vendors
    price their family packs at a loss, then that's their problem, not the consumer's.
    A family pack should be offered at a price that makes the foundry/designer/vendor
    happy, and then the individual font files (or lesser packages) sold at a higher
    price per \"unit\" (font file). But let's not forget: the idea of higher prices
    for a single font file is to make that single sale worthy of the vendor's effort
    in a small-scale one-time sale, <strong>not</strong> to rake up extra profit when
    a family is sold bit by bit.\r\n\r\nThe main reasons physical products are sold
    at a lower price per unit when purchased in bulk are inventory storage costs and
    manufacturing costs. It saves a vendor money in inventory costs to get rid of
    large quantities of product quickly, and it also saves money to manufacture the
    product in bulk. Inventory storage costs for typefaces is negligible (as they
    are digital files and not very heavy ones at that), and manufacturing costs are
    higher, yet incurred only once and never again for that one eternally duplicable
    font file (as you don't have to keep actually making/designing/compiling/generating
    more and more copies of the font files each time you're making a sale).\r\n\r\nSo,
    once again, you've proven your own arguments dead wrong."
  created: '2008-11-21 13:59:03'
- author:
    name: Co
  body: "Hi everyone,\r\n\r\nAlfonso, allow me to question YOUR intent, by counting
    6 font files as 4.\r\n\r\nLike it or not, OurType does offer Mac PS and other
    'legacy platforms', and, as far as Fresco is concerned, being launched in 2002,
    those were THE main platforms.\r\nAs you know, those platforms do allow only one
    set of figures.\r\nThen, many customers preferred one style of figures above another
    one, and so on.\r\n\r\nSo, fonts with separate lining figures [LF], old style
    figures [osf], Small Caps [SC], ARE separately produced files, that our customers
    can and do choose, if they need them.\r\n\r\nMeanwhile, five years on, OpenType
    is everywhere, and suddenly the Small Caps and Lining Figures, and OSF, and SC
    Figures, and various-width glyphs (not to mention the rest of the evergrowing
    character set) are just thought to be THE Standard character set, and the 6 separate
    files equal 4. Is that it? \r\n\r\nMore, Most of Our clients do buy the legacy
    platforms, rather than OpenType. \r\nSo, 6 font files ARE 6 font files.\r\n\r\nI
    would not want to excuse OurType for its policies, my post is just a reaction
    to your very confident and articulate misinformation, if you like to call it this
    way.\r\n\r\nWe DO try to adjust to the current practices (larger sets and ongoing
    technological update). As far as pricing and distribution is concerned - and with
    all the admiration we do have for Village/Lucas model - we will continue to define
    OUR OWN pricing and logistics policies.\r\nWhich doesn't mean we are not listening
    to all the opinions expressed here.\r\n\r\nAnd last but not least -- \r\nwe do
    nurture quality with lots of research and effort put into new ideas. And we put
    new type faces out there only when we have something new or distinguishable to
    say. Most of our customers return to us because of THAT quality. We hope we do
    not let them down.\r\n\r\nCorina\r\nOurType"
  created: '2008-11-21 15:36:42'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "<em>... A family pack should be offered at a price ...\r\n... the idea of
    higher prices for a single font file is ...\r\n... distribution and storage costs
    are, I dare say, negligible ...</em>\r\n\r\nWould people who do not run a foundry
    or distributor, or work for one please refrain from speculation about their intentions
    and ideas ... ?"
  created: '2008-11-21 15:53:02'
- author:
    name: agarzola
    picture: 115831
  body: "Hello, Corina. Your seemingly righteous retort would be flawless, were it
    not for the fact that I made a point of calling them purchaseable items. In fact,
    I make a point of establishing the difference between font files and items/products
    available for purchase:\r\n\r\n<em> >OurType lists the fonts included in the package
    as six separate <strong>products,</strong> which is kind of confusing (and of
    questionable intent, in my opinion). The truth is that the package is made up
    of four <strong>purchaseable items</strong> (the four listed above).</em>\r\n\r\nI
    do not, nor ever did intend to imply that six font files should really be counted
    as four font files, and I invite anyone to quote me specifically where it is that
    I implied such a thing. What I <strong>did indeed say</strong> is that those six
    font files are sold as four separate items/products inividually, and that <strong>is
    indeed</strong> the case. Now, when Bald Condensed comes here claiming that the
    Fresco 1 package includes six font files <strong>priced at \u20AC40 EACH</strong>,
    that is misinformation. And that is misinformation that, in my opinion, is hinted
    at and even encouraged by the OurType website when we compare the phrasing used
    to sell your Fresco 1-5 packages <em>vs.</em> the phrasing using to sell your
    individual Fresco fonts. If this wasn't the case, why on earth would OurType describe
    it as <em>Fresco Light & LF</em> when sold individually, and <em>Fresco Light,
    Fresco LF Light</em> when sold as part of a package? Why not use the same, exact
    phrasing and be consistent in both instances? Seriously: why not?\r\n\r\nCall
    it what you want. I call that misrepresentation. The description provided for
    the Fresco family packages lead to the conclusion that six individually purchaseable
    items are included in the package, and that is not the case. There are six font
    files, but they are available as four individually purchaseable items, at \u20AC40
    each.\r\n\r\nOr maybe there is no ill intent, in which case the blame rests entirely
    on Bald Condensed misinterpreting <em>\u20AC40 per item</em> as <em>\u20AC40 per
    font file</em>. Either way, my argument still stands: purchasing the font files
    included in Fresco 1-5 packages individually do not amount to \u20AC240 per package,
    but \u20AC160.\r\n\r\n- \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 -
    \u2014 -\r\nWill food for type."
  created: '2008-11-21 16:07:28'
- author:
    name: agarzola
    picture: 115831
  body: "<em> >Would people who do not run a foundry or distributor, or work for one
    please refrain from speculation about their intentions and ideas ... ?</em>\r\n\r\nOh,
    that is just precious. So consumers should not analyze nor question the policies,
    offerings and ideas (or the intentions behind said policies, offerings and ideas)
    made public by the vendors who will so readily take their money in exchange for
    a product or service?\r\n\r\nWhould people who fail to understand the relationship
    between vendor and consumer please refrain from silly, self-serving commentary?\r\n\r\nTry
    this: think of something useful to bring to this conversation. THEN post.\r\n\r\n-
    \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 -\r\nWill food for
    type."
  created: '2008-11-21 16:13:28'
- author:
    name: Co
  body: "Alfonso,\r\n\r\nA single font - Fresco Light & LF - is only one font, not
    two. \r\n[As the ampersand appears to imply]. Thank you for pointing out -- we'll
    change the description of the single fonts entry asap.\r\n\r\nYves somehow gets
    all the bricks in his head, but he IS right - \r\nin one package there are 6 font
    files, and 6 purchaseable items.\r\n\r\nFor the rest, I do stand by my previous
    post.\r\n\r\nCorina\r\nOurType\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-21 16:51:26'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Jan, Yes I caught that. \r\n\r\nProcess, Lucas, Vllg, & PhyOps. "
  created: '2008-11-21 17:42:31'
- author:
    name: RahimSnow
    picture: 114570
  body: "Yves,\r\n\r\nYou write:\r\n\r\n<cite>You mean the considerable budget FontShop
    invests in producing The FontFeed \u2014 an international blog with three (3!)
    editors and even more contributors \u2014, the two local blogs Fontblog and Unzipped,
    the free online font creation tool FontStruct, Education Pages, Font Magazine,
    FontBooklets, sponsoring TypeCon and ATypI amongst many others, and so on... all
    those things mean nothing when it comes to \u201Csupporting a closer rapport with
    your customers\u201D?</cite>\r\n\r\nAll these things are appreciated and contribute
    massively to the community.  No doubt about that.\r\n\r\nWhat I am trying to point
    out is that some of us consider it more valuable that some of this considerable
    budget that FontShop invests might be poured into maintaining some kind of friendly
    upgrade policy?\r\n\r\nI don't see how that means all the other contributions
    are worth nothing to us.  It's not an either/or situation here.  But there are
    priorities.  In the list of priorities, what would I rank as the most important
    to me after the quality of the fonts of course?  A \"taste test\"-like upgrade
    policy.\r\n\r\n1. Font quality\r\n2. Friendly upgrade policy\r\n3. Community support/blogs/conferences/newsletters\r\n\r\nI,
    as a customer, am telling all the foundries that this is my order of priorities.\r\n\r\nBut
    are you saying to me: \"We do so much of #3, why are you not satisfied?  Why are
    you even asking for #2?\" \r\n\r\nAnd I would say to you: \"Why are you making
    me choose one or the other?  I would love to have both #2 and #3.  But if I have
    to choose, I would choose #2 over #3.  Maybe the increased sales from #2 could
    support #3 in ways that you might not be able to see yet.\"\r\n\r\nIt doesn't
    have to be an either/or proposition.  And this is where some creativity in business
    comes in.  There *must* be a way to have all three, even if it means introducing
    #2 by reducing the financial footprint of #3.\r\n\r\nRahim\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-21 17:55:40'
- author:
    name: agarzola
    picture: 115831
  body: "Corina,\r\n\r\nI fail to see where it is that I can purchase Fresco Light
    (no LF, no SC). That's what I mean. Sure, all six font files included in the Fresco
    1 package are purchaseable, but not individually at \u20AC40 per font file. Yet
    your Fresco 1 package listing displays Fresco Light separately.\r\n\r\nI don't
    know how else to explain it. Perhaps I need to ask the right question: If I were
    to purchase the font files found in the Fresco 1 package individually, how much
    would I have to spend? The way Bald Condensed explains it, one would have to spend
    \u20AC240. The way I see it on your website, one would have to spend \u20AC160.\r\n\r\nHere's
    the reason I'm saying it would be \u20AC160 (I hope somebody can illustrate why
    it would be \u20AC240): [img:sites/default/files/old-images/fresco_prices_4800.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nAnd
    before somebody comes here to muddle the waters a bit more with pointless rhetoric
    about why should I be making such a fuss about OurType's pricing system, like
    silly Mr. Kutilek did a while ago, let me clarify the following: Bald Condensed's
    pricing argument relies on this one piece of information. That is why it is so
    important to the discussion that this one pricing issue be clear. I'm sure Mr.
    Condensed didn't have any ill will when he dragged OurType into an already controvertial
    discussion, but he did use their prices as an example, and examples can and should
    be analyzed and questioned, regardless of where they come from.\r\n\r\n- \u2014
    - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 -\r\nWill food for type."
  created: '2008-11-21 18:01:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>2. Friendly upgrade policy</em>\r\n\r\nThe correct term is \"Convenient
    refund policy.\"\r\n\r\nAn upgrade policy would refer to \"trading in\" a Type1/TrueType
    font for the OpenType version.\r\nBold is not an upgrade of Regular.\r\n\r\nAnd
    surely just because you like something because it saves you money, that doesn't
    make it \"friendly\".\r\nIf the refund is productized, it's not a service, and
    is conducted automatically and impersonally.\r\nBut you've given me an idea. Maybe
    if I program a happy-face pop-up for whenever a sale is made, I will be more customer-friendly
    :-)"
  created: '2008-11-21 18:14:52'
- author:
    name: RahimSnow
    picture: 114570
  body: "Jan,\r\n\r\nThanks for pointing out that LucasFonts offers a \"font family
    rebate.\"  Sorry it went unacknowledged in the posts above.\r\n\r\nFrom their
    [[http://www.lucasfonts.com/support/|Support]] page:\r\n\r\n<cite>Once you are
    a registered user of our webshop you will receive a font family rebate whenever
    you license more fonts of the same font family for your organisation! This rebate
    will be calculated automatically each time you log in using your registered e-mail
    address.</cite>\r\n\r\nJan, do you or anyone else know if the rebate is a full
    difference like what Village offers or some other differential discount?\r\n\r\nEven
    if the automatic calculations are complex, it would be helpful to know the general
    intention of the rebate?  Is it nominal or substantial?\r\n\r\nAnyhow, it's great
    that they offer this and it is most appreciated.  I just ordered a specimen catalog
    from them.\r\n\r\nRahim"
  created: '2008-11-21 18:19:13'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "<em>Oh, that is just precious. So consumers should not analyze nor question
    the policies, offerings and ideas (or the intentions behind said policies, offerings
    and ideas) made public by the vendors who will so readily take their money in
    exchange for a product or service?</em>\r\n\r\nI don't want to keep you from analyzing
    and questioning anything, but you didn't analyze but speculate and present it
    as a fact."
  created: '2008-11-21 18:20:54'
- author:
    name: RahimSnow
    picture: 114570
  body: "And just to follow up on Process Type Foundry, as Nicole and Sharon had pointed
    out earlier.\r\n\r\nFrom their [[http://www.processtypefoundry.com/help/ordering.html#license|Help]]
    page:\r\n\r\n<cite>License or Pack Upgrades</cite>\r\n<cite>Perhaps you bought
    Bryant Light and now want to purchase all the weights. Or, maybe you purchased
    a single user license of Klavika and want to upgrade to a 4\u20136 user license.
    If this is the case, contact us and we will make arrangements so you only pay
    the difference between the two rather than the full purchase price of the new
    item.</cite> \r\n\r\nThank you very much for offering a full difference.  It really
    makes a difference to those of us with limited budgets but huge admiration for
    the quality of your work.  My favorites: Klavika, Seravek, and Locator.\r\n\r\nRahim\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-21 18:26:14'
- author:
    name: agarzola
    picture: 115831
  body: "<em> >I don\u2019t want to keep you from analyzing and questioning anything,
    but you didn\u2019t analyze but speculate and present it as a fact.</em>\r\n\r\nNice
    try, Ray Ban. Here's the three quotes you listed:\r\n\r\n<em>A family pack should
    be offered at a price that makes the foundry/designer/vendor happy [\u2026]</em>\r\nIs
    that a statement of fact? Hardly. That is clearly an opinion.\r\n\r\n<em>But let\u2019s
    not forget: the idea of higher prices for a single font file is to make that single
    sale worthy of the vendor\u2019s effort in a small-scale one-time sale.</em>\r\nOh,
    wait\u2026 so the idea of higher prices for a single font file <strong>is not</strong>
    to make that single sale worthy of the vendor's effort in a small-scale one-time
    sale?!! Try again, Ray Ban.\r\n\r\n<em>A typeface family, on the other hand, costs
    much, much more to produce, as you explained, but distribution and storage costs
    are, I dare say, negligible.</em>\r\nOh, wait, so the distribution, storage and
    delivery of lightweight digital files all come at a price comparable to the distribution,
    storage and delivery of hundreds of thousands of Nike sneakers?! Really.\r\n\r\nTake
    your half-assed self-serving pseudo rhetoric home, practice typing it in front
    of a mirror and see if you get any better at coming up with convincing arguments.
    Here's a hint: it'd help if you had <strong>actual</strong> arguments you can
    articulate fully, instead of limiting yourself to little tid bits that are somehow
    supposed to make you seem like you have something to say.\r\n\r\n- \u2014 - \u2014
    - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 -\r\nWill food for type."
  created: '2008-11-21 18:35:49'
- author:
    name: agarzola
    picture: 115831
  body: "More money in my pocket. <\u2014 I call that friendly. It is, of course,
    convenient. But still friendly.\r\n\r\nWhen a design is deemed \"user friendly,\"
    I don't think they mean the design invites me to their home for Christmas or lends
    me a soft shoulder to cry on. I'm sure Rahim doesn't mean that the purchase order
    form should say hi and ask <em>\"how's the family?\"</em> That would be silly.\r\n\r\n-
    \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 -\r\nWill food for
    type."
  created: '2008-11-21 18:36:48'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Pull it in people. This is a very informative thread. Let's not start name
    calling.
  created: '2008-11-21 18:48:24'
- author:
    name: RahimSnow
    picture: 114570
  body: "Nick,\r\n\r\n<cite>2. Friendly upgrade policy</cite>\r\n\r\nUpgrade, as in
    from a single weight to a family set.\r\n\r\nFriendly, as in you're willing to
    financially help me purchase the family set when I have already purchased a single
    weight from you by not making me pay once again for the single weight I already
    have.\r\n\r\nIt's that human dimension of willingness to help that I am calling
    friendly, not the meer transacation of goods seen from some economics professor's
    impersonal and academic perspective.\r\n\r\nAnd yes - a happy face popping up
    here and there would be lovely.  A warm & friendly customer experience, especially
    if it goes into the upgrade pricing policy, goes a long way.\r\n\r\nRahim\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-21 19:02:06'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Yves> Okay now, Lets not make out FontShop out to be a philanthropic organization.
    Yes, I know FontShop put out many valuable tools, but these are <em>promotional</em>
    tools used to get me to buy fonts. As does Fonts.com (fyti) and Adobe (Remember
    Font&Function?).\r\n\r\nThe fact is if I buy all the styles of Clifford separately
    that $390, if I buy the package that\u2019s $330. Sorry, but I\u2019m not giving
    FontShop $60 for pleasure of shopping the way I want to. $60 can be used to support
    another type designer (as I do in my local art community) or buy be some sneakers
    or buy groceries or whatever. All the fabulous things FS comes at a price.\r\n\r\nSo
    who\u2019s being greedy me or FontShop?\r\n\r\nAnd making a presumption, but a
    good one; this would be a serious profit drainer for FS (and mono/lino and anyone
    else). More likely the real reason why it would be a no go. Not resources nor
    available talent but loss of money.\r\n\r\nFor clarification, on the FontShop
    site, I wouldn\u2019t expect that every foundry/designer that FontShop retails
    agree to a Vllg-style retail policy. No biggy for me, I always deal direct anyway
    (I don\u2019t do middle men). I\u2019m just wishing they all would have the Vllg
    spirit.\r\n\r\nAgain using Clifford Pro as an example, I would not care if they
    charged me 80 dollars a style (well I would, but anyway for example)  separately
    but when the all purchases reach 330 I would want all six styles.\r\n\r\nLike
    it has been brought out, this is nothing new to me. I just have never put up with
    it from the very first day I swiped my credit card for type."
  created: '2008-11-21 19:12:58'
- author:
    name: RahimSnow
    picture: 114570
  body: "Corina,\r\n\r\nYou write:\r\n\r\n<cite>We DO try to adjust to the current
    practices (larger sets and ongoing technological update). As far as pricing and
    distribution is concerned - and with all the admiration we do have for Village/Lucas
    model - we will continue to define OUR OWN pricing and logistics policies. Which
    doesn\u2019t mean we are not listening to all the opinions expressed here.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    Village model is indeed admirable, and my hope is that this model or something
    similar might find its way in some form or another in the upgrade policies at
    OurType as well.\r\n\r\nI have often thought about purchasing single weights of
    Versa, but not having a clearly defined and friendly upgrade path has always led
    to hesitation and postponement because I ultimately want the whole family.  Similarly,
    I have had the same situation with FF Meta Serif at FontShop.\r\n\r\nAnd it makes
    me wonder how many other typophiles are going through the same thought process,
    hesitating, postponing, not making the purchase so they can enjoy your work, and
    thereby not giving you the benefit of making the sale--even a small sale--which
    supports your own work and foundry operations.\r\n\r\nThe Village/ProcessType
    model addresses this situation admirably and you can tell from the testimonials
    of the owners of those foundries themselves how satisfied they are to have this
    model in place and how happy their customers have been.\r\n\r\nSo I thank you
    for participating in this thread, Corina.  And thank you also in advance for considering
    the discussions here and discussing them with your colleagues at OurType to see
    how you might respond now or in the future to this invitation to offer a friendly
    upgrade path to your customers.\r\n\r\nRahim"
  created: '2008-11-21 19:27:05'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "> <em>Yes, I know FontShop put out many valuable tools, but these are promotional
    tools used to get me to buy fonts.</em>\r\n\r\nNope, the promotional tools used
    to get you to buy fonts are the FontFont Focus brochures, the foundry and other
    special catalogues, the Newsletters and the industry mailings. Please note I took
    great care not to mention them."
  created: '2008-11-22 00:57:17'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "> <em>Nice try, Ray Ban.</em>\r\n> <em>Try again, Ray Ban.</em>\r\n> <em>Take
    your half-assed self-serving pseudo rhetoric home.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat Tiffany said.
    Don't. :^/"
  created: '2008-11-22 01:01:29'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Wow, you can post *any* explanation for why you don't offer the desired discount
    scheme, and get abused for it! I love this thread!\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-11-22 01:09:23'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Occupation\r\n(self-educated) Designer \r\n\r\n;-)"
  created: '2008-11-22 01:34:28'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: "Agarzola, you're making some good points. Unfortunately your lack of tact
    is, to me anyway, offensive. I see you haven't been around this forum long. Please,
    show some respect. You can make your point in a more diplomatic way. The type
    world is a small one. There are a lot of folks around here, Yves included, that
    give a lot to this forum.\r\n\r\nI can't blame Yves, or anyone else, for taking
    these shots at Fontshop personally. Companies aren't anonymous organisms. They're
    made up of human beings who are all trying to make a living in an industry that
    is faced with pirating, lack of perceived value, and other factors that threaten
    their business.\r\n\r\nAs far as the taste test program goes, I think it's great.
    If Fontshop did it, I would definitely license more type. I like to buy complete
    families when I can, but have bought some that I've regretted. So, I'm much more
    careful these days now that business has slowed down a bit. Knowing that I could
    purchase a few weights to work with and come back later and get the family discount
    would be an incentive for me."
  created: '2008-11-22 03:44:30'
- author:
    name: agarzola
    picture: 115831
  body: "<em> >Wow, you can post *any* explanation for why you don\u2019t offer the
    desired discount scheme, and get abused for it! I love this thread!</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    funny. The way I see it, you can post *any* explanation for why a consumer may
    prefer the desired discount scheme, and get abused for it! In fact, I find <em>abuse</em>
    to be an excellent term to describe the initial reactions of those opposing the
    discount scheme in question.\r\n\r\n<em> >Agarzola, you\u2019re making some good
    points. Unfortunately your lack of tact is, to me anyway, offensive. I see you
    haven\u2019t been around this forum long. Please, show some respect. You can make
    your point in a more diplomatic way. The type world is a small one. There are
    a lot of folks around here, Yves included, that give a lot to this forum.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm
    gonna go out on a limb here and say that I think \"lack of tact\" is, to you and
    a few other people, lack of sugar coating. Because, until now, the only thing
    I think may be perceived as \"lack of tact\" from me towards Yves is telling him
    that his examples are terrible, that they do a better job of illustrating the
    opposition's points and that he should make an effort to find better sources for
    his examples, because each one has failed terribly. How is telling someone their
    examples are terrible \u2014and illustrating precisely how inadequate those examples
    are, as opposed to just saying their terrible without further explanation\u2014
    showing lack of respect? Am I to understand that the fact that Yves has a history
    in this community makes him immune to having his mistakes pointed out? Seriously?\r\n\r\n<em>
    >I can\u2019t blame Yves, or anyone else, for taking these shots at Fontshop personally.
    Companies aren\u2019t anonymous organisms. They\u2019re made up of human beings
    who are all trying to make a living in an industry that is faced with pirating,
    lack of perceived value, and other factors that threaten their business.</em>\r\n\r\nSee,
    there it is again: \"these shots.\" I truly fail to see how anybody has \"taken
    shots\" at FontShop. Whenever anyone here has said something negative about FontShop,
    it has been based on factual information, people relating their actual experiences.
    Yet the only times I see Yves adopt an aggressively defensive position is NOT
    when someone points out FontShop's negative qualities, but when someone mentions
    other (smaller) vendors' positive qualities. Rahim said that he thought the discount
    scheme may result in \"a closer rapport with your customers\", and Yves takes
    that and turns it into an attack on FontShop, asking if all the blogs, and sponsoring,
    and publications, etc. \"mean nothing when it comes to 'supporting a closer rapport
    with your customers'?\" What's more, he adopts a sarcastic tone in the next paragraph:
    <em>Oh no, that\u2019s right, you are correct \u2014 it\u2019s not for their customers,
    it\u2019s for the entire community.</em> I half expected him to include a little
    'rolleyes' emoticon at the end there.\r\n\r\nOh, but he's being tactful, I'm sure.
    His sarcasm is OK, see, because he works for FontShop, so he's got the cred. You
    know what? I don't buy it\u2026 I simply don't roll the way of affording tact
    and respect to a person who initiated his participation in the discussion by attacking
    and just generally being obnoxiously rude and self-righteous towards someone as
    tactful, diplomatic and conciliatory as Rahim has demonstrated to be. Then saying
    he apologizes for his initial reaction, only to go right back to adopting the
    same condescending, reactionary, complex-ridden attitude that characterized his
    first post.\r\n\r\nThat's not to say I don't respect whatever he has brought to
    other discussions on this forum. It's not to say I don't appreciate whatever help
    he has provided in furthering the typeface design industry. It is simply that
    I will not respect nor walk on eggshells around his complete lack of respect,
    tact, good taste or ability to articulate his arguments in an effective way that
    properly defends his point of view. And the fact that I'm a recently registered
    user shouldn't have anything to do with anything, unless we're a pack of gorillas
    and the alpha-male system is in effect.\r\n\r\nThe whole Ray Ban thing, while
    funny to me, was out of place and tasteless, so I stand corrected and agree to
    stop with the name-calling.\r\n\r\n- \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014
    - \u2014 - \u2014 -\r\nWill food for type."
  created: '2008-11-22 04:48:11'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: The lack of tact, to me, was the name calling and overall tone. Not anything
    that you pointed out in the flawed arguments; which I happen to agree with - G3
    trade-in, etc... Maybe I'm giving Yves too much credit, but having been a frequent
    visitor here for a while I know Yves contributes a lot to the forums, but you're
    also right that it doesn't give him a free pass either. I think the conversation
    would be much more constructive without the hostility. While we're not a pack
    of gorillas, dropping into a new "community," virtual or otherwise, with guns
    blazing doesn't sit well with the locals. But that's just me. I reserve the right
    to be wrong.
  created: '2008-11-22 05:20:41'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Yves>>> Okay fine. I appreciate those things. But do you see my point about
    loosing $60 with Clifford? I still don\u2019t believe I\u2019m taking advantage
    or showing non-appreciation for FontShop because I have fundamental problem with
    the way I\u2019m charged.\r\n\r\nI just can\u2019t let myself give someone extra
    money.\r\n\r\nAll this buyer vs. seller debate has been important, but it still
    does not change my appreciation and amazement for the people who really deserve
    the most admiration\u2014the type designer. \r\n\r\nMoney gets in the way.\r\n\r\nMikey
    :-("
  created: '2008-11-22 05:36:55'
- author:
    name: RahimSnow
    picture: 114570
  body: "Everyone,\r\n\r\nNo matter where you stand on this issue: for it, against
    it, curious about it, some shade or hue in between, what I like about this topic
    and this forum is that we are all learning more about each other as a community:
    our convictions, our priorities, our tolerances, our intolerances, and, yes, even
    our blindspots.  It shows how passionate and dedicated everyone is to the art,
    science, and business of type.\r\n\r\nAnd when passions rub up against each other
    (take that imagery where you may...it's chilly outside), language habits and attitudes
    are going to rub up against each other too.  And when that happens, sometimes
    there are skirmishes, sometimes there is diplomacy.  But all that can be sorted
    out.  In fact, conversation is the process by which things get sorted out, no?\r\n\r\nIt
    is just so refreshing that so many people and so many foundries are here participating.
    \ It is significant.  I don't know if other industries have this, if they get
    to have this, but this is very important and powerful.  And I'm so honored to
    be among such excellent and admirable folk (sorry, channeling Bilbo for a second
    there...).  I can't quite get my head around it all just yet, but I can feel it...maybe
    you can too.  And maybe that's why we keep coming back to this board and the love
    of type...\r\n\r\nI think it's time for a group hug.  :))\r\n\r\nRahim\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-22 05:36:59'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Alfonso G\xF3mez Arzola>>> Beside the bad remark, you have been breath of
    fresh air. Welcome to Typophile. Guns Blazing is okay with me.\r\n\r\nMike Diaz
    :-) \r\n\r\nPS... I half \u2019Rican myself, holla!"
  created: '2008-11-22 05:41:33'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Rahim>>>\r\n\r\nGood Job! Thank for being above-board the entire time!\r\n\r\nPersonally,
    I doubt if this will have a major effect on the foundries (big or small). \r\n\r\nBut
    you never know, the economy is getting worse.\r\n\r\nIn the mean time, I plan
    on putting my money where my mouth is.\r\n\r\nThank you!!!!!\r\n\r\nMike Diaz
    :-)"
  created: '2008-11-22 05:52:43'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I'm trying to imagine what a similar discussion between the airlines and
    consumers on airfare policies would look like.\r\n\r\nI'm glad this kind of discussion
    is taking place at all, though I think it could stand to be a tad more civil in
    tone. I'm learning a lot about different points of view, and I'm sure the foundries,
    resellers, and consumers paying attention to the thread will similarly benefit."
  created: '2008-11-22 06:20:05'
- author:
    name: agarzola
    picture: 115831
  body: "<em> >I think the conversation would be much more constructive without the
    hostility.</em>\r\nGranted. We could all do without the hostility, but I'll be
    the first one to admit I'm not a man patient enough to be civil with someone who
    closes his initial remarks on the subject with <em>Now stop whining and do something
    constructive.</em>\r\n\r\nAlthough, in all fairness, I believe it was Mr. Shinn
    who set the hostile tone in his first comment with: <em>Do the math, get a life,
    make some money, and if you\u2019re offered a deal, don\u2019t go dissing whoever
    made it because they\u2019re not as \u201Cupgrade friendly\u201D as your greedy
    heart desires</em> and then top it off in his next comment by calling the thread
    title <em>a provocative distortion</em> on behalf of Rahim.\r\n\r\nMr. Shinn,
    though, apologized and then followed up: his tone has seen great improvement.
    Mr. Yves's sarcastic, self-righteous tone has remained the same.\r\n\r\n<em> >While
    we\u2019re not a pack of gorillas, dropping into a new \u201Ccommunity,\u201D
    virtual or otherwise, with guns blazing doesn\u2019t sit well with the locals.
    But that\u2019s just me. I reserve the right to be wrong.</em>\r\n\r\nI agree.
    But I invite all here to check out my profile, under the 'Track' section, and
    you'll find that I'm not \"dropping into the community with guns blazing.\" It's
    just this one thread. Which is not to say I won't pull an awesome John Woo-esque
    flying-through-the-air-while-shooting-both-guns-at-the-same-time move sometime
    in the near future.\r\n\r\n- \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014
    - \u2014 -\r\nWill food for type."
  created: '2008-11-22 10:59:05'
- author:
    name: agarzola
    picture: 115831
  body: "Mr. Mike D\xEDaz: w00t!\r\n\r\nRicans\u2026 Aren't we all a big bunch of
    half-breeds, in one way or another?\r\n\r\nThanks for the warm, fuzzy welcome.\r\n\r\n-
    \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 -\r\nWill food for
    type."
  created: '2008-11-22 11:02:51'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "@Yves - i know it's not *simple*, but what i was trying to say, and what
    i think some others have expressed, is that their may be ways to do this, so it
    should not be a closed book.\r\n\r\nIf a foundry did keep a record on my account
    of what i buy from them, then alerting me to the fact that i have spent equal
    to the family price in single purchases and offering me the extra fonts from the
    family 'for free' would be helpful and a big incentive.\r\n\r\nas others have
    said, i also hesitate to buy single weights because i know that one day i'll get
    the whole family but at greater cost then if i could afford to buy it at once.
    meta and meta serif are prime examples, there are many different packs and combo's,
    but when it comes down to it, i will inevitably pay more overall all by buying
    single weights overtime, or pay twice for some weights if i buy a pack later on.
    \r\n\r\ni could be wrong, but do the vendors when pricing families consider each
    weight in the family pack to have a dollar value? or are some weights in the pack
    'free'? \r\n\r\nif they do all have a dollar value, then buying a single weight,
    then a pack would mean i am paying for the same font twice. \r\n\r\nin regard
    to the 'upgrades' - when i upgrade to the new version of Photoshop, i\u2019m getting
    extra code that was not in the version i previously had, so is it not similar
    to font families, that by 'upgrading' at a discounted price, I'm getting extra
    code i did not previously have? \r\n\r\ni mean, fonts are software arn't they?
    so should we not treat them like software? \r\n\r\nalso, in reard to the FontFeed,
    Fontstruct etc being not promotional item for FontShop, i don't agree, i think
    they exist to help advertise and promote both FontShop itself - as a great industry
    supporter - and the prdoucts they sell. which is why Fontstruct has ads to FontShop
    products and the FontFeed will usually link only to FontShop products. I even
    experienced a comment i made on the FontFeed being edited by the moderators to
    link to a package i was talking about. i don't mind that, but to say it is not
    in FontShops interest to use these things for promotion is misleading. please,
    just be transparent, say 'yeah we do all these things so that you will see how
    great our products are and buy them' i know that's what i would do if i were FontShop,
    so just be upfront about it. \r\n\r\nand to be clear, i love the support FontShop
    gives the community/industry - but it has to be self-serving to a certain extent
    otherwise it isn't sustainable, and i for one am ok with that, cause i want FontShop
    to continue to do the things it does.\r\n\r\nlike i said earlier, this isn't just
    a FontShop thing, Lino/Mono/Adobe are in the same boat. "
  created: '2008-11-22 11:46:29'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "> <em>Mr. Yves\u2019s sarcastic, self-righteous tone has remained the same.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    cute coming from you. :^D I guess I was stupid enough to take the bait. The next
    comment is devoid of sarcasm, I assure you -- I'd rather you call me Yves, or
    Bald, or Mr. Peters if you really must. Mr. Yves sounds awkward.\r\n\r\nAs I explained
    halfway this very long thread, some of the comments ticked me off, and blinded
    me to the fact that the initial post was <em>not</em> yet another shot at how
    type is priced. The perceived value of type is declining in inverse relation to
    its intrinsic value, and this has made me overly sensitive to these issues. This
    probably wouldn't have happened if I'd joined the discussion early on. My bad.\r\n\r\nIf
    some of my reactions came across as sarcastic and self-righteous, I sincerely
    apologize for that, particularly to Rahim who started this thread without any
    ill intent I'm sure. My online behaviour usually is calm and composed as most
    of Typophile will be able to attest. Fortunately, incidents like these are far
    and long between (less than once a year), but this indeed doesn't give me a free
    ticket for comments that might have seemed excessive to some of you.\r\n\r\nSimon
    and Mike, is it OK if I get back to your comments a bit later on, especially the
    \"I just can\u2019t let myself give someone extra money\"? I still think most
    of us view the situation upside down, so I will make another attempt at explaining
    the logic behind volume discounts.\r\n\r\nNow I have to do some weekend shopping,
    getting groceries to feed my family. ;^)"
  created: '2008-11-22 14:43:34'
- author:
    name: agarzola
    picture: 115831
  body: "<em> >That\u2019s cute coming from you. :^D</em>\r\n\r\n<strong>That's</strong>
    anything <strong>but</strong> cute.\r\n\r\nIn fact, I think it's pretty out of
    line to talk about what would be \"cute\" coming from me having not read nearly
    enough from me to know. But at least now I know not to expect much more from you
    than that, and you can expect me to respond accordingly, as I'm sure you've noticed.
    :)\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, might I suggest you respond to the arguments I and
    others have brought to the table? Until now, all we've seen is you interpreting
    half the comments as attacks on FontShop, and a few ill-conceived examples that
    don't help prove your points.\r\n\r\nHappy shopping! (Really!) :)\r\n\r\n- \u2014
    - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 -\r\nWill food for type."
  created: '2008-11-22 15:04:38'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Alfonso, it may be time to stop. This conversation is falling into a tit-for-tat
    argument, and that isn't going to take anybody anywhere. A foundry isn't going
    to change its policies or operations based solely on one thread in an online discussion
    forum. Neither are customers likely to change their buying habits based on the
    same thread's points either.
  created: '2008-11-22 15:08:23'
- author:
    name: agarzola
    picture: 115831
  body: "I haven't even mentioned anything about foundries or vendors changing their
    policies or operations. In fact, the only thing I've mentioned related to that
    is the opposite: that their policies are theirs and that's fine.\r\n\r\nThe only
    things I've been arguing this whole time, and I believe it to be clear to a few
    readers, is: 1) the bogus arguments being made against Rahim's and other sympathiser's
    proposal/ideas, and 2) the condescending nature of some of the comments made,
    including (but certainly not limited to) <em>get a life</em>, <em>stop whining
    and do something productive</em> and (my personal favorite) <em>if you don't run
    a foundry or work for one, you shouldn't speculate regarding their policies and
    ideas</em>.\r\n\r\nAnd BTW:\r\n<em> >A foundry isn\u2019t going to change its
    policies or operations based solely on one thread in an online discussion forum.
    Neither are customers likely to change their buying habits based on the same thread\u2019s
    points either.</em>\r\n\r\nThat, in my opinion, is no reason not to discuss something.\r\n\r\n-
    \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 -\r\nWill food for
    type."
  created: '2008-11-22 15:23:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Alfonso, for the record, I did argue against the refund scheme Rahim is promoting,
    but only in the sense that I thought it was more trouble than it was worth. \r\n\r\nI
    cussed him out for insinuating that the good old family package discount is a
    boldface Problem, an onerous system by which foundries force poor suffering customers
    to Pay For The Same Thing Twice.\r\n\r\nLike most foundries, I'm quite open and
    receptive to new marketing ideas, but I do have an issue with the way Rahim advances
    his agenda with sweet talk and word bending. I don't use those kind of manipulative
    techniques to market my wares. When I implement the refund policy, that's what
    I'll call it, not \"friendly upgrade\". So no, I'm not feeling the love, no group
    hug, and absolutely no happyface popups, which I'd like to think would make <em>my</em>
    customers gag."
  created: '2008-11-22 20:41:28'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "@Yves - sure, have a good weekend!\r\n\r\n@Nick - I would be one of those
    who wold gag... :-)\r\n\r\nJust something i thought of - if we accept that fonts
    are software, then the precedent of upgrades is very common, even for completly
    different software.\r\n\r\neg - if i buy TypeTool from FontLab, then decide later
    on to 'upgrade' to FontLab Studio, which is a completly different program, i get
    the origional $99 off of the FontLab Studio price.\r\n\r\n>>FontLab Studio 5.0
    for Mac OS X US $649.00 Convert the price into another currency\r\n\r\n>> FontLab
    Studio 5 for Mac OS X Upgrade for registered TypeTool users   US $559.00 Convert
    the price into another currency Please enter your valid TypeTool serial number
    in the Other Notes field of the order form.\r\n\r\nAnd Adobe does a similar thing
    with upgrading from Photoshop to the CS4 Suite (which is more like going from
    one weight to a whole family).\r\n\r\n>> http://www.adobe.com/products/creativesuite/upgrade/\r\n\r\ni
    guess that's the point i'm trying to make. that's all, treat fonts as software."
  created: '2008-11-22 21:39:36'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Simon & Rahim> \r\n\r\nI just had an idea. What about an anonymous poll\u2014here
    on Typophile? (Joe, Zara?)\r\n\r\nMy brain is a little tired right now, but I\u2019m
    sure you can formulate better questions than these:\r\n\r\nIn a scenario where
    the foundry offers single styles of a family and there is a volume discount, Do
    you hold back from buying type because it may cost you more in the long run?\r\n\r\nWould
    you buy more type if it a had a Vllg,Lucas,Process-style sales policy? How much
    more? Little bit to shoppathon?\r\n\r\nMost of the time, do you pay for type or
    does your client, school, boss etc?\r\n\r\nAre you more inclined to buy entire
    families of type or just what you need for your project?\r\n\r\nWhich is more
    important to you, price per font, family cost, or both, neither, other?\r\n\r\nDo
    you buy type impulsively?\r\n\r\nDo you always buy entire families of type or
    just singles or a combination?\r\n\r\nSome one can surely ask better questions
    than these. There are overlappers, but it might lead to interesting results.\r\n\r\nMikey
    :-)\r\n\r\nYves>>> Have fun shoppin\u2019 with the fam! I\u2019m going to have
    dinner with my momma... maybe an art gallery or three too. :-)"
  created: '2008-11-22 22:37:15'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "i don't think a subjective poll would be very useful - because what i think
    i would do now, may change in the future.\r\n\r\ni guess the only way to get 'concrete'
    data, is for the all the foundry/reseller/distributers to share answers to those
    type of questions, then compare the ones who have the 'upgrade' system in place
    to the ones that don't and see if there are different buying habits. \r\n\r\nfor
    example, do village customers usually buy one or two fonts from a family, them
    come back and 'upgrade' or do most just buy the family outright. and how does
    that compare to linotype customers>\r\n\r\ni'm not saying that the foundary's
    *should* share this kind of data in such a place as this, because it may be something
    they would rather keep private, and i understand.\r\n\r\nwhat i am saying is that
    only hard, cold statistics would provide any 'proof' that one system could be
    better than another.\r\n\r\nwe all know my feelings on which system i prefer,
    but that does not mean i'm 'right' to feel that way, it just means i feel that
    way.\r\n\r\ni hope some of that makes sense, i'm really tired, and about to go
    to sleep... "
  created: '2008-11-23 13:54:08'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "This is quite funny -- while shopping I think I noticed a valid analogy to
    what I'm trying to explain. Please bear with me.\r\n\r\nIn the office supplies
    section of the supermarket I saw some pens for sale. One pen costs \u20AC1.90.
    The pens are available in three different colours -- red, blue, and black -- each
    available as single pens. There's also a package with three pens in the three
    colours, one of each colour. This package costs \u20AC4.90.\r\n\r\nCustomers have
    two options. Either they need the three colours, or they don't. Actually a third
    possibility would be that they need one colour straight away, but they're not
    sure if they will need the two other colours in the future.\r\n\r\nAdding the
    price of the three separate colours results in a price tag of \u20AC5.70. As mentioned
    above, the package with the three colours is priced at \u20AC4.90. There are a
    number of reasons for this price difference of \u20AC0.80.\r\n\r\n<ul><li>If you
    buy the three pens in one set you only go through the cash-out system once, so
    it takes less man-hours, effort and administration to move the same amount of
    product.</li>\r\n<li>Part of the price includes packaging and presentation in
    the store; having the three pens in one set uses less packaging, less effort to
    put in the store, and takes up less display room.</li>\r\n<li>As buying the two
    first pens already costs \u20AC3.80, the third pen only costs \u20AC1.10. This
    may persuade the customer to buy the three pens in one package anyway, even if
    he/she is not sure he/she will need all three colours.</li></ul>\r\n\r\nThis means
    the decision is all up to the customer.\r\n<ul><li>The customer buys the three
    pens in one package because of the reduced price, even if he/she may not be sure
    to need all of the colours. But hey, the last one costs less, so it's a bargain.</li>\r\n<li>The
    customer only buys one pen. If he/she wants to complete the collection he/she
    has two options. Either he/she ends up buying the two other colours as well and
    will have spent \u20AC0.80 more, but those expenses are spread over time which
    means they have a lesser impact on his/her budget. Or the customer decides to
    buy the whole package, which is a bit silly because (a) he/she now has four pens,
    with two of the same colour and (b) he/she will have spent \u20AC1.90 more.</li></ul>\r\n\r\nThe
    analogy with fonts works on all counts."
  created: '2008-11-23 17:50:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Except that if you buy one pen and then the package of 3, you end up with
    4 pens.\r\n\r\nWhereas if you do the same thing with fonts, you never have more
    than three fonts.\r\n\r\n(Although legally, you may install your \"Paid For Twice\"
    font on a larger number of computers than the others!)"
  created: '2008-11-23 18:05:33'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "> <em>Except that if you buy one pen and then the package of 3, you end up
    with 4 pens.</em>\r\n\r\nThanks for the addition, Nick, but I think I covered
    this in my last point: <em>\"Or the customer decides to buy the whole package,
    which is a bit silly because (a) he/she now has four pens, with two of the same
    colour and (b) he/she will have spent \u20AC1.90 more.\"</em>\r\n\r\nI'm not done
    yet, please bear with me -- this is quite a comment I'm currently writing. ;^)"
  created: '2008-11-23 18:17:19'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "There has been quite some mis- and disinformation going on in this thread,
    so I'd like to rectify some things.\r\n\r\n<ul><li>Completing a type family is
    <em>not</em> an upgrade -- replacing your font with an improved version of that
    same font is an upgrade. When completing a type family you add different products;
    for example the italic companion of a typeface is a distinctively different item,
    as is a different optical size or a different weight or width. So comparing this
    with upgrading of software is a false representation of the facts.</li>\r\n<li>You
    don't necessarily need to purchase the full package and have duplicates of certain
    fonts. All weights and styles are available as single fonts. The logical solution
    is to purchase the missing fonts, which means that in the end you'll have paid
    a little more and you'll have every single font only once. When you make a choice
    how to purchase your fonts you should acknowledge that each system has its advantages
    and its drawbacks. It would be unfair to want to enjoy only the benefices of the
    system, and expect the reseller to deal with all of the downsides.</li>\r\n<li>Offering
    type families as both volumes and single fonts presents an extra budget, both
    in man-hours and actual cost. And each sale represents administration (invoices
    and payment checks), and often customer support, so logically selling single fonts
    will represent a higher cost for the reseller than selling one single volume.
    Some foundries don't even offer single fonts specifically because they don't want
    the hassle.</li>\r\n<li>I'd like to come back to Jens' observations <em>\"Would
    people who do not run a foundry or distributor, or work for one please refrain
    from speculation about their intentions and ideas ...\"</em> and <em>\"I don\u2019t
    want to keep you from analysing and questioning anything, but you didn\u2019t
    analyse but speculate and present it as a fact.\"</em>. A number of things have
    been presented as being facts by people who haven't got the faintest idea about
    budgets, investments, profit margins, volumes etc. in the type business. They
    have then used these so-called facts to speculate on the (ill) intentions on the
    part of the foundries and vendors and shed them in a negative light. You simply
    can't <em>do</em> that, it is unfair. This is partly why some of my reactions
    may have seemed sarcastic: certain statements were being made which had no relation
    to reality.</li></ul>"
  created: '2008-11-23 18:32:02'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: I'll explain why Process, Lucas, Vllg, & Psy/Ops <em>can</em> afford to implement
    a system with added benefices for their clients -- and why vendors prefer to have
    benefices for everyone, not just their customers -- after dinner.
  created: '2008-11-23 18:35:11'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "What I'm about to write now is based on deduction and my experiences with
    working with FontShop. As I'm an independent contractor I have no actual numbers
    to support my theory, so I won't fall in the same trap many others have fallen
    into and present them as facts. This is what bugs me most -- for all the theorising
    and speculations in this thread most of you <em>simply don't know.</em> I at least
    am willing to admit this, and I'm better informed than most of the non-insiders
    (the insiders being Village, Sharon, Nick, Jens, Ivan, Stewf, Co, and Thomas Phiney;
    I hope I didn't forget anybody).\r\n\r\nBasically it all comes down to pricing
    and profit margins, and system of distribution. A foundry is a more direct link
    to the customer; there is an extra step when purchasing through a vendor/reseller.
    This additional step means the profit margin is less, because the foundry specifies
    at which price a font package should be sold and the type designer keeps the same
    royalty share (BTW this means the \"my purchase supports the artist so you get
    the most money\" is a non issue, really). The lower profit margin should be compensated
    by the higher volume of product sold. Why do type designers sell through vendors/resellers
    then and not directly? Read Typographica.\r\n\r\nI think it's easier for a foundry
    or a co-op like Village to grant their customers extra discounts like the Taste
    Test scheme because they have a bigger profit margin per product sold -- they
    are likely to have sufficient financial elbow-room, and implementing this kind
    of scheme is less complicated as they move less volume. Mind you, I said it's
    easier, but it's not always possible. Certain foundries prefer to set their prices
    lower to have a competitive edge, and as a result their profit margin is not sufficient
    to support this kind of scheme. It's all about offsetting operational costs against
    profit and volume -- how many people does the foundry or co-op employ, what are
    the development and maintenance costs of the website, how much technical and sales
    support does the foundry provide, etc.\r\n\r\nLarge vendors have much, much higher
    operational costs. For example just take a look at the sheer size and complexity
    of their websites, accommodating tens of foundries and tens of thousands of fonts,
    all with their different set-ups and constellations. All these foundries have
    their own policies, so trying to devise a general discount system is not realistic,
    and implementing foundry-specific discount schemes means a considerable investment
    in development. What a large vendor can do are specific coupon actions, like FontShop
    is doing now in Font Magazine and with the industry-specific newsletters for people
    (not just customers, but anyone with a FontShop account!) who completed their
    professional activity in their profile (BTW this also dispels the notion that
    large vendors do nothing with regards to pricing). These discounts provoke a dent
    in no-one's but their own profit margin, not anybody else's -- unless the foundry
    requested a promotional action and are willing to lower their prices of course.
    Now this much I know for sure because I recently discussed this with FontShop
    BeNeLux: to reach a break even on the current promotion consisting of a 15% price
    reduction (not even extra profit) they need to sell <em>40%</em> more fonts.\r\n\r\nSo
    basically it's up to the customer to decide if they prefer to have their own private
    discount for returning purchases, or if they'd rather go for the convenience of
    having a large selection of foundries and fonts available in one spot with occasional
    discounts -- even if they haven't purchased anything previously -- and added benefits
    like free swag, information, blogs et al at the disposition of the entire community.
    Granted, this is a bit of a caricature, but I wanted to restore the balance a
    bit. ;^)\r\n\r\nI hope this makes a number of things clear."
  created: '2008-11-23 20:53:57'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "><em>Also, in reard to the FontFeed, Fontstruct etc being not promotional
    item for FontShop, i don\u2019t agree, I think they exist to help advertise and
    promote both FontShop itself -- as a great industry supporter -- and the prdoucts
    they sell.</em>\r\n\r\nThere's a huge difference between targeted actions and
    hard sell, and the many things FontShop does that guarantee even less they will
    have any return on. For example a large portion of the content of Font Magazine
    has no relation with FontShop product at all, and we continually link to non-FontShop
    foundries in FontFeed posts (Silas Dilworth, Hoefler & Frere-Jones, The Foundry,
    ... check it yourself!) -- the only thing the FontFeed editors will do is link
    to the FontShop website if it's available there, and we won't link to competing
    large vendors because that would be, you know, fairly stupid, even bordering on
    suicidal. :^D Of course you are correct that anything we do is somehow aimed at
    furthering the idea that FontShop is reliable and knows what it's doing, but not
    necessarily at trying to sell you something. So I stand by what I said."
  created: '2008-11-23 21:06:48'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: '*rolls eyes*'
  created: '2008-11-23 23:13:39'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "thanks yves. please understand i'm not attacking you, or fontshop or other
    large vendors.\r\n\r\nas i've stated earlier, i'm really happy with all the things
    fontshop does for the community, and want it to continue. \r\n\r\nas i've also
    said earlier, for me personally, the 'upgrade' system is very handy and is a selling
    point.\r\n\r\nwhen you said that:\r\n\r\n***Completing a type family is not an
    upgrade \u2014 replacing your font with an improved version of that same font
    is an upgrade. When completing a type family you add different products; for example
    the italic companion of a typeface is a distinctively different item, as is a
    different optical size or a different weight or width. So comparing this with
    upgrading of software is a false representation of the facts.***\r\n\r\ndoes that
    mean that when i *upgrade* from photoshop to the entire creative suite, it's not
    really an upgrade either, and that i should buy the rest of the suite program
    by program? it seems adobe and other software companies call adding more programs
    (or pieces of different software) to my 'package' an upgrade, and will give me
    discounts for doing that (both from older versions and single programs out of
    the suite)\r\n\r\n>> http://www.adobe.com/products/creativesuite/upgrade/ \r\n\r\nis
    that not true?\r\n\r\nand if they can do it with programs that are not available
    as a download (like CS4), then maybe there is a way for large vendors to looking
    into it as well. \r\n\r\nbut having said that, i see your point of lower margins
    etc, and see that in the case of fontshop, they have chosen a different way to
    appeal to customers. \r\n\r\n@nick - i've never thought of it being possible that
    i would then have 2 licenses for a single weight if i bought it first, then the
    family later under the normal system. thanks for pointing this out."
  created: '2008-11-23 23:38:58'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "I have no interest in adding to the primary discussion on the subject of
    upgrade/refund policies. But I did want to respond to this side point:\r\n\r\n>
    Yves: <cite> [. . .] because the foundry specifies at which price a font package
    should be sold and the type designer keeps the same royalty share (BTW this means
    the \u201Cmy purchase supports the artist so you get the most money\u201D is a
    non issue, really). </cite>\r\n\r\nYves, I'm not sure if I'm misinterpreting what
    you meant by this, but I would like to clarify that I do in fact make less money
    when Whitman is licensed through a reseller (like FontShop, Fonts.com, Phil's
    Fonts, et al.) than when it is licensed through Font Bureau directly.\r\n\r\nMy
    royalty arrangement with Font Bureau is a percentage of FB's actual revenue from
    Whitman. When a font of Whitman is licensed through a reseller, some portion of
    the fee goes to that reseller, naturally, and the portion that comes to Font Bureau
    is less than if they had made the \"sale\" themselves. They then divide that reduced
    portion according to the agreed percentage and I get my royalty. I can tell you
    from my royalty statements that I do in fact make less per unit licensed through
    FontShop than through Font Bureau.\r\n\r\nThis is not a criticism, just a clarification
    in case anyone else read that statement the way I did. \r\n\r\nThat's the way
    this business works and I have absolutely no problem with it. I am happy to have
    FontShop licensing out fonts of Whitman and reaching new customers. Stephen, Yves,
    and gang have been generous in marketing and promoting Whitman through various
    FontShop vehicles, and FSI deserves all the cut they get. \r\n\r\nFrom what Stephen
    has written, I understand that the arrangement between FontFont (the foundry)
    and its designers is different: the type designer gets a fixed royalty amount
    per font licensed, independent of what channel it's licensed through. So, no matter
    how many additional middle men divvy up the \"sale,\" the designer gets the same
    dollar amount (or Euro or whatever ;-). I think I've stated this accurately, and
    it's an interesting stance. In this case, Yves's parenthetical comment quoted
    here would indeed be true. But I believe this is more the exception, rather than
    the rule. \r\n\r\n-- Kent."
  created: '2008-11-24 16:21:03'
- author:
    name: Village
  body: "I will only address the paragraph in Mr Peters' last series of posts which
    deals with Village:\r\n\r\n<strong>I think it\u2019s easier for a foundry or a
    co-op like Village to grant their customers extra discounts like the Taste Test
    scheme because they have a bigger profit margin per product sold \u2014 they are
    likely to have sufficient financial elbow-room, and implementing this kind of
    scheme is less complicated as they move less volume. Mind you, I said it\u2019s
    easier, but it\u2019s not always possible.</strong>\r\n\r\nPlease note that Mr
    Peters does not have any knowledge of Village's profit margin or other financial
    details, and he is completely wrong in his assertion that our profit margin is
    bigger than that at large distributors. In fact, we offer the industry's most
    generous distributor/foundry share split, in keeping with our co-operative philosophy.\r\n\r\nVillage
    chooses to offer our clients the Taste Test because we feel that it is morally
    right not to charge people for the same thing twice. It's not more complicated
    than that. The size of our company and the volume of our sales are not factors
    in our decision to offer the Taste Test.\r\n\r\nWithout giving away proprietary
    information, I can reveal that orders which involve the Taste Test make up a very
    small percentage of our total sales. It is not arduous in the least for us to
    manage.\r\n\r\n(There are some other inaccuracies Mr Peters has launched which
    I will leave for others to address, as Mr Lew has done.)\r\n\r\nChester Jenkins\r\nVillage"
  created: '2008-11-24 16:40:58'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: Thanks for clarifying this.
  created: '2008-11-24 17:26:21'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "<cite>does that mean that when i *upgrade* from photoshop to the entire creative
    suite, it\u2019s not really an upgrade either, and that i should buy the rest
    of the suite program by program? it seems adobe and other software companies call
    adding more programs (or pieces of different software) to my \u2019package\u2019
    an upgrade, and will give me discounts for doing that (both from older versions
    and single programs out of the suite)</cite>\r\n\r\nAdobe is like the cardealer
    who will give you a \u2018lower\u2019 price for a new car in the form of a trade
    in price for your old one. You probably won\u2019t keep two cars running. Same
    with PhotoShop 6, that won\u2019t even run on a new Mac ; ). And Adobe has you
    locked in a very lucrative upgrade path for years to come. That\u2019s called
    marketing\u2026 [; )\r\n\r\nBut OT: Buying anything is a complex process. One
    has to consider a lot of things. Immediate benefit vs long term. Same with the
    cost. Return on investment. Etc. Doesn\u2019t matter whether it is a fridge or
    a font.\r\n\r\nVillage et al are smart in the sense that they understand their
    market. Selling bits and bytes, there is no loss in taking back a bunch you sold
    before in lieu of an additional sale of a product that has a very low cost/sale
    ratio. You know what software makers say about their product: the first box produced
    is the most expensive, to the order of (tens of) millions of dollars. They start
    raking it in after the cost has been recovered (take a look at MicroSoft\u2019s
    numbers).\r\n\r\nWish that car dealers would do the same as Village cs.\r\n\r\n.
    . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2008-11-24 20:04:30'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Yves>>> \r\n\r\n***<em>Offering type families as both volumes and single
    fonts presents an extra budget, both in man-hours and actual cost. And each sale
    represents administration (invoices and payment checks), and often customer support,
    so logically selling single fonts will represent a higher cost for the reseller
    than selling one single volume. Some foundries don\u2019t even offer single fonts
    specifically because they don\u2019t want the hassle.</em>***\r\n\r\nWhile credit
    card processing, server farm maintenance, etc might be an all-out hassle for a
    small organization, it\u2019s not true for many businesses that are of the same
    scale as FontShop. Myfonts, a competing distributor, would have gone under a long
    time ago if that was the dominating factor... you already know they sell plenty
    of smaller cheaper fonts. As an example, Letraset\u2014while not cheapo in quality\u2014has
    a collection that mostly revolves around display scripts and one-time purchases.
    (Someone important said scripts sell the most) In fact, FontShop distributes fonts
    from foundries whose portfolio revolves around such. Certainly FontShop isn\u2019t
    repelling those foundries either\u2014no\u2014in fact they are being marketed
    to increasingly as we speak. See Coles\u2019s post. Even foundries like Letraset
    with a much lower cost per font than your own collection. \r\n\r\nAren\u2019t
    the billing(customer) and payment(designer- like Akira) systems automated? Someone
    is not punching in these numbers manually all the time right? A check is being
    drawn up each time we make a sale? No. Its culled from a database of receipts
    and however they do, the designer will get a check at the agreed time right? \r\n\r\n***<em>Basically
    it all comes down to pricing and profit margins, and system of distribution.</em>***\r\n\r\nFinally
    we get to it!\r\n\r\nYes, the $60 I used as an example in the Clifford Pro scenario
    is a big deal to me, just as it to FontShop. That \u201Clittle bit more\u201D
    your talking about is a significant part of the business isn\u2019t it?\r\n\r\nFS
    can make big chunk of cash now with 330\r\n\r\nor make charge extra for the buyer
    who wants purchase over time 390\r\n\r\nI suppose if I was the owner of FontShop
    I would not be too thrilled with Vllg-style policy either especially considering
    singles are offered at the higher price per font.\r\n\r\nThis is why I think a
    poll would be relevant in this discussion because I would assert most people buy
    singles or smaller couplings of type. If there poll was that showed that customers
    hold back from buying complete type systems because of the disincentive, it might
    give more impetus for FontShop and others to give serious consideration to the
    Vllg-style license. It would depend if the foundry/reseller wanted to invest in
    a system that was efficient towards the new policy... which would take lots of
    effort. I personally think the many more people would buy type more often and,
    as we all know, FontShop really knows how to market\u2014it would be no little
    secret.\r\n\r\n<em>so trying to devise a general discount system is not realistic</em>\r\n\r\nHow
    about just the FontFont collection? The customer-specific coupons are already
    in place. I am really not interested in thing else with FS, well except maybe
    the foundries that only sell through FS (ARS TYPE), but really your own collection.
    Certainly maintaining what\u2019s your own is easier right? Has FS considered
    offering discounts for underperforming families?\r\n\r\nMike Diaz :-)\r\n\r\nBTW...
    I have <strong>never</strong> had a coupon offer from FontShop. :-( I thought
    it was an Emigre thing: discounts on bland pottery and magazines I would never
    buy or read. When do these coupons come around?"
  created: '2008-11-25 00:39:49'
- author:
    name: Jasonrobb
    picture: 112635
  body: "Is this how most Typophile threads play out, or is this an especially absurd
    one?\r\n\r\nKudos to those with carrying the conversation with objective optimism.
    It's been quite an enjoyable ride."
  created: '2008-11-25 00:42:30'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "These kinds of threads are common.\r\n\r\nOnce you sift past the blah-blah,
    attitudes, and FUD you can make your own mind up as to where you stand on the
    issues. \r\nYou just better like to read\u2014 a lot!\r\n\r\n:o)"
  created: '2008-11-25 00:50:39'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "@mike - i have received a discount from this newsletter:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fontshop.com/features/newsletters/industryfocus/book1/index.html?utm_source=FocusNov12&utm_medium=email&utm_content=WebVersion&utm_term=em&utm_campaign=FocusBook1\r\n\r\nand
    i intend on using the code very soon!\r\n\r\nalso, didn't chester say:\r\n\r\n<cite>Without
    giving away proprietary information, I can reveal that orders which involve the
    Taste Test make up a very small percentage of our total sales. It is not arduous
    in the least for us to manage.<cite>\r\n\r\nso it seems that at least for village,
    the taste test does not increase sales. \r\n\r\nof course this goes against what
    i would expect, as i am one of those who use the taste test.\r\n\r\nbut it's interesting
    that village does it not for sales reasons, but moral ones:\r\n\r\n<cite>Village
    chooses to offer our clients the Taste Test because we feel that it is morally
    right not to charge people for the same thing twice. It\u2019s not more complicated
    than that. The size of our company and the volume of our sales are not factors
    in our decision to offer the Taste Test.<cite>"
  created: '2008-11-25 01:18:46'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I find the taste test an interesting idea, and one that I would consider
    seriously when the adobe.com store infrastructure is enhanced to the point that
    it could support such a feature.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-11-25 04:07:33'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Thomas>>> In your opinion, speaking generally, how difficult would such a
    something be to implement? What sort of technologies would be have to be interfaced
    into your systems to get such an idea going? Pie in the sky and really expensive
    or fairly do-able just plenty of red tape with entities within Adobe?\r\n\r\nYes,
    please keep this idea. I would be valuable to so many people, especially students
    and educators.\r\n\r\n:-) Mikey"
  created: '2008-11-25 05:29:24'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Kinda in between. Hard to justify the cost based on revenue increase, as
    best as I can tell.  But there may be multiple reasons to do the underlying architectural
    improvements, so we'll see if that helps.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT "
  created: '2008-11-25 07:10:27'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: From a marketing standpoint, I can see how consumers would be attracted to
    a retailer that offers consumer-friendly services, even if most of those consumers
    don't take advantage of those services. The fact of their availability promotes
    goodwill.
  created: '2008-11-25 07:39:01'
- author:
    name: agarzola
    picture: 115831
  body: "<em>\"Goodwill?! My taking time out to design typefaces is goodwill enough!!\"</em>\r\n\r\n-
    \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 -\r\nWill food for
    type."
  created: '2008-11-25 11:13:57'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "i just want to say thanks to all the foundry and reseller reps who have joined
    this thread. it's good to hear your thoughts.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-26 05:34:23'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/talk_to_the_hand_4517.png]'
  created: '2008-11-27 00:58:47'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: 'hmmm, mike, to be honest, i don''t why you would feel ''smart'' maybe fortunate
    instead? '
  created: '2008-11-27 02:02:32'
- author:
    name: agarzola
    picture: 115831
  body: "\u2018Fortunate\u2019? He didn't get a gift, Simon.\r\n\r\n- \u2014 - \u2014
    - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 -\r\nWill food for type."
  created: '2008-11-27 02:29:47'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "yes, i realise this, but i don't see how 'smart' applies.\r\n\r\n'fortunate'
    in that village has this policy and he can take advantage of it.\r\n\r\ndoes that
    make sense?"
  created: '2008-11-27 03:04:19'
- author:
    name: agarzola
    picture: 115831
  body: "Well, I would say that we're all <em>fortunate</em> that vendors like VLLG
    offer the taste test and similar schemes in the name of fairness. But I do think
    that Mike's choice is a smart one, from a consumer's point of view. He could have
    chosen a similarly priced \u2014but not similarly \u2018upgradeable\u2019\u2014
    typeface from a different vendor, yet he chose a (presumably) equally satisfying
    typface from VLLG, which gives him the \u2018upgrade\u2019 option discussed in
    this thread.\r\n\r\nSo he got what he needed <strong>and</strong> what he wanted,
    not because of fortune, or luck, but because of a decision he made. And a smart
    one at that\u2026\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s the way I see it. :)\r\n\r\n- \u2014 - \u2014
    - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 -\r\nWill food for type."
  created: '2008-11-27 04:30:06'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "hmmm, good point.\r\n\r\nsorry mike!"
  created: '2008-11-27 06:03:30'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Thank you Alfonso\u2014perfectly worded!\r\n\r\nNo problem, Simon. :-)\r\n\r\nMikey
    :-)"
  created: '2008-11-27 09:35:51'
- author:
    name: genericboy
    picture: 113715
  body: "One thing that I don't <em>think</em> has been addressed is that, aside from
    all matters of policy, a scheme like this is much less straightforward to implement
    on a large, preexisitng site than if you're making that decision from the start
    of the design process. Earlier in the thread, Mr Jenkins from Village said:\r\n\r\n<em>The
    Taste Test has been Village policy since Day One. In fact, it was always our policy
    at Thirstype in Chicago too.</em>\r\n\r\nI actually remember this being the case
    when Village launched their site (which is an excellent example of a site which
    is both beautiful and practical, while I'm at it). As somebody who works primarily
    on the web (only occasionally in any kind of development role) I can vouch for
    the fact that it's a whole different thing to implement something like this once
    a site or application has been out in the wild for even a short while. Updating
    an exisiting system always comes with its own challenges, and there's no guarantee
    that the data stored about customer's previous purchases will be enough to launch
    something like this right off. \r\n\r\nIn this scenario, what do you do? Start
    the new policy only on later purchases? This isn't necessarily a situation that
    will look like a goodwill gesture to existing customers. So at this point, a technical
    difficulty can become an issue of policy - all of which will take time to resolve.
    \r\n\r\nThese are just a few points - obviously I make no claims to know anything
    about the inner workings of any of these suppliers. Just trying to bring something
    to the table that I haven't seen mentioned elsewhere. Certainly not to take away
    from Village's policy, which I think is an excellent idea. But this is <em>always</em>
    the advantage that smaller, newer businesses have over larger competitors - the
    ability to implement bold strategies quickly and effectively, due to having less
    'baggage'. Village should certainly be praised for having such a customer-friendly
    policy, but I don't think at this stage the larger sellers should be demonised
    for <em>not</em> following suit.\r\n\r\n[<a href='http://www.semibad.com'>semibad</a>]"
  created: '2008-11-27 09:38:00'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "you're right about not demonising the larger guys, i agree. \r\n\r\nas long
    as they do make an effort to see if this is something that might eventually be
    workable, i'm cool.\r\n\r\nand as i've said before, both here and on my blog,
    i really like fontshop, as well as village and others, no matter their size or
    policy. as long as they treat me fairly and help me when i need it, i'm happy.\r\n\r\ni
    know some of you are thinking 'but it's not fair to charge twice for a font' which
    of course is how this whole thread got started, and i'm not saying it is fair,
    what i meant was that when i choose to purchase from somewhere like fontshop,
    i accept the way they do business in order to get the goods i want. if, right
    now, that means no taste test policy, so be it. ultimatly, if their products are
    good enough, i'll buy from them.\r\n\r\ndoes that make sense?"
  created: '2008-11-27 12:38:11'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: You make sense Simon. :-)
  created: '2008-11-27 18:43:29'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "thanks mike... i was typing late last night and so was not sure...\r\n\r\n:-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-27 21:36:36'
- author:
    name: Werfer
    picture: 111217
  body: "It took a long time to read this discussion - but it was worth it. I, too,
    think it is great that we not only have those people who use fonts, but also those
    people who produce and sell fonts.\r\n\r\nI personally do not really care whether
    a font is from a lone type designer, or whether it is from Linotype or Adobe.
    If it looks great, then I wanna have it :-))"
  created: '2008-11-28 13:49:43'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "BTW everyone.\r\n\r\nI recently <em>did</em> complete my purchase of National.
    I now have the entire suite. I love it. The upgrade was totally easy.\r\n\r\nBest
    part? Saved all kinds of cash.\r\n\r\nMikey :-)"
  created: '2009-01-14 07:07:30'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: congrats! :-D
  created: '2009-01-14 07:27:44'
- author:
    name: RahimSnow
    picture: 114570
  body: "Hi everyone,\r\n\r\n[[http://www.type-together.com/|Type Together]], the
    foundry that brought you Maiola, Karmina, Bree, Ronnia, etc, also offers a \"taste
    test\"-like policy.\r\n\r\nI just got confirmation from Veronika Burian herself,
    one of the two founders of Type Together, that if you buy single weights from
    her foundry and buy the family package later, they will refund you the price of
    the single weights.  She mentioned that this has always been their policy, and
    they will work on communicating that more explicitly on their new website.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.type-together.com/\r\n\r\nEnjoy!\r\nRahim"
  created: '2009-04-02 21:45:17'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Rahim, thank you posting this information. I wonder if the Taste Test-like
    policy would apply to Type-Together\u2019s resellers like FontShop and MyFonts.
    I ask because I always prefer dealing in US dollars.\r\n\r\nNevertheless, dollar
    or euros\u2014this a great opportunity to snatch some up of their fine collection
    in a painless way.\r\n\r\nMikey :-)\r\n\r\nPS... I further upgraded National to
    the V2 release that includes the Thin, Light, and Black. Easy and pain free."
  created: '2009-04-02 23:15:46'
- author:
    name: RahimSnow
    picture: 114570
  body: "Hi Mikey,\r\n\r\nAs you might have guessed, Veronika just confirmed that
    their policy applies only to Type Together fonts purchased at type-together.com.
    \ Makes sense to me.\r\n\r\nI'm glad to hear how much you're enjoying upgrading
    National through Village's policy.\r\n\r\nRahim"
  created: '2009-04-03 04:53:06'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: i'm pretty sure TypeTrust offer a similar deal, but you'd best check with
    them before buying.
  created: '2009-04-05 16:00:27'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Rahim>>> Type-Together posted the information on upgrades here:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.type-together.com/index.php?action=portal/viewContent&cntId_content=2777&id_section=160\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-08 03:05:43'
- author:
    name: fallenartist
    picture: 111868
  body: "I will definitely use Taste Test-like vendors. Most of the time I just need
    one or two weights for specific project and then, based on experience with that
    type, I buy more weights or upgrade to a full family.\r\n\r\n________\r\n<a href=http://www.lenart.pl>AL</a>
    <a href=http://www.lenart.pl/news>\u25AA</a><a href=http://www.lenart.pl/work>\u25AA</a><a
    href=http://www.lenart.pl/about>\u25AA</a><a href=http://www.lenart.pl/contact>\u25AA</a>"
  created: '2009-04-08 14:41:22'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Add Terminal Design to the list!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-11 03:49:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am certainly in favor of this.  Anyone who purchases single fonts of any
    Dezcom typeface will be credited the amount they paid for it towards purchase
    of the entire family.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2011-02-11 05:16:35'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: Cool Beans Chris!
  created: '2011-02-11 06:27:21'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: "Just wanted to note that we at <a href=\"http://www.grillitype.com\" target=\"_blank\">Grilli
    Type</a> offer the same policy. It's not automated but if you contact us beforehand,
    we will send you a custom link with the reduced price.\r\n\r\nOverall, while I
    understand the motives of bigger foundries not to offer such a thing, I as a graphic
    designer myself want to make the whole experience as convenient as possible. After
    all we compete with much bigger companies and I think that this kind of policy
    will be standard for all smaller foundries quite soon."
  created: '2011-02-14 22:11:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Shinntype offered an introductory discount on the Bodoni Egyptian upgrade
    from Type 1 to OpenType.
  created: '2011-02-14 22:32:33'
- author:
    name: Ed_Aranda
    picture: 117416
  body: "Wow, awesome thread. I stopped reading at 23.Nov.2008, and I know this horse
    has been dead for a while now, but I felt compelled to say that as a consumer
    in a free market, your strongest weapon is your choice of patronage. Just as a
    business has the right to charge as much or as little as they want for what they
    sell, a consumer has the right to decide where to spend his or her money. It's
    only when an industry colludes to artificially control prices that, in my opinion,
    consumers have any leg to stand on when demanding change.\r\n\r\nSo foundries,
    by all means \u2013 charge what you deem appropriate for your fonts \u2013 if
    you're product is good enough, someone will buy it. It's obviously up to the business-owner
    to maintain that equilibrium of price and quality. Just stay honest, and don't
    count on anyone to bail you out if you eff it up!"
  created: '2011-02-14 23:50:48'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Typolar_6712.png]\r\n.\r\n.\r\n.\r\n.\r\nWe
    can add Typolar to the list. \r\nThey have Vinkel and Tanger... very sexy Scandinavian
    types! \r\n\r\nMikey :-)"
  created: '2011-03-17 07:47:43'
date: '2008-11-17 20:58:02'
node_type: forum
title: Paying Twice For The Same Fonts

---
