---
author:
  name: evertype
  picture: 109455
body: "Over on the Wikipedia I'm involved in a rather frustrating [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Template_talk:Typography_terms|dispute
  about typographic classification]]. It seems that most mainstream classifiers (from
  Vox on) have just ignored Gaelic types. Though some specialist literature describing
  them exists (incliuding a [[http://www.evertype.com/celtscript/fonthist.html|page
  of my own]], there doesn't seem to be anything generic that deals with classification
  or subclassification.\r\n\r\nI'm sort of wondering how this oversight can be corrected.
  I'll raise the issue with Mary Anne Bolger [[http://typophile.com/node/51766|tomorrow]]
  but I wonder what people here think.\r\n\r\nMichael Everson\r\nevertype.com"
comments:
- author:
    name: Stephen Rapp
    picture: 111901
  body: "I'm no historian, but I know that the Insular scripts and uncials predate
    the carolingian script which evolved into the blackletters. \r\n\r\nOne reason
    I've been told that uncials and Lombardic versals are tossed in with blackletter
    is that they were seen on the same page\u2014 as in the hierarchy of scripts.
    Personally I think they should be classified separately even if the number of
    typographic samples is a short list. Although type is a product of scribal manuscripts,
    its history in the western world began with blackletter. Even so, if someone creates
    a type design based on Gaelic script or uncial, the history if these forms remains."
  created: '2008-11-19 12:08:05'
- author:
    name: evertype
    picture: 109455
  body: "Uncials per se are a bit of an odd animal. There are Greek uncials. \r\n\r\nI
    doubt that Vox would have classed Gaelic typefaces with Blackletter had he treated
    them in 1954.\r\n\r\nMichael Everson\r\nevertype.com"
  created: '2008-11-19 16:44:31'
- author:
    name: vincent_morley
    picture: 109590
  body: "Hello Michael,\r\n\r\nI missed the Bolger lecture because the first I knew
    of it was when I saw an item in 'The Irish Times' at around 9:00 p.m. on the same
    evening. Obviously, I should come here more often ...\r\n\r\nOn the subject of
    type classification, it is self-evident that Irish type cannot be classified as
    a variety of either Roman or Blackletter type. Neither can it be promoted to the
    status of a distinct alphabet alongside Greek or Cyrillic. Neither can it be consigned
    to the 'rubbish bin of history' given that new designs are still being produced
    and used - albeit more for decorative purposes than for continuous text these
    days.\r\n\r\nIn reality, Irish type represents a third distinct variety of the
    Latin alphabet alongside Roman and Blackletter, having come into existence as
    the expression in metal of the insular minuscule hand just as the others were
    originally the expressions in metal of the humanist and textura hands respectively.
    \r\n\r\nIt is true that some of the more recently designed Irish typefaces show
    other influences - ranging in period from insular majuscule in your 'Ceanannas'
    to art deco in my 'Slimchl\xF3' - but they still fall within the broad classification
    of Irish type. This is defined less by stylistic considerations such as weight,
    contrast or x-height, and more by the basic structure of the letters: 'a', 'd',
    'f', 'g', 'i' (always dotless), 'r', 's' (long variant) and 't' are particularly
    distinctive. \r\n\r\nIf Irish type has previously been overlooked by type classifiers,
    this is hardly surprising: whereas Roman and Blackletter type came to dominate
    western/southern and northern Europe respectively (with the contest for dominance
    in England not being decided in favour of the former until around 1700), the use
    of Irish type was always restricted to an unofficial language spoken on a small
    island on the western edge of the continent - and even in this role it faced strong
    competition from Roman type before finally losing the battle in the mid-20th century.\r\n\r\nBy
    the way, given that the type has never been used in Highland Scotland (although
    the insular minuscule hand remained in use there until around 1700), I feel that
    it is more accurate to speak of 'Irish type' than of 'Gaelic type'. This also
    reflects the established usage in Lynam's 'Irish Character in Print' and McGuinne's
    'Irish Type Design'.\r\n\r\nVM"
  created: '2008-11-22 18:49:21'
- author:
    name: evertype
    picture: 109455
  body: "Sorry you couldn't make it to the lecture, Vincent. I was looking forward
    to seeing you there.\r\n\r\nAs it turns out I seem to have made my case over on
    the Wikipedia, and Gaelic type is now being treated as a top-level\r\n\r\nI have
    to say, I disagree with 'Irish type' as a translation of <em>cl\xF3 Gaelach</em>.
    While it is true that in Scottish Gaelic only standard Roman types were used I
    think \"Irish\" is ambiguous. Antiqua or Blackletter types made in Ireland or
    by Irish designers could be called \"Irish\". \r\n\r\n\xD3 D\xF3naill gives <strong>cl\xF3
    gaelach, gotach, iod\xE1lach, r\xF3mh\xE1nach</strong> 'gaelic, gothic, italic,
    roman, type'. \r\n\r\nI appreciate your argument, but I think \"Gaelic type\"
    is the better term, with due respect to Lynam and McGuinne, who as I noted were
    not trying to classify our types in the context of a top-level distinction with
    other Latin types. So it seems to me that Blackletter/Roman/Gaelic is a better
    fit than Blackletter/Roman/Irish. \r\n\r\nNothwithstanding \"Irish coffee\" =
    <em>caife Gaelach</em>....\r\n\r\nMichael Everson\r\nevertype.com"
  created: '2008-11-29 20:24:43'
- author:
    name: vincent_morley
    picture: 109590
  body: "Hello Michael,\r\n\r\nThinking about this matter since, it struck me that
    there is (or was) another expression in metal of the insular minuscule hand -
    namely the Anglo-Saxon types that were used to print editions of Old English texts.
    See for example:\r\nhttp://www.lib.umich.edu/tcp/docs/dox/asax.html\r\n\r\nI'm
    no expert in this area, but it appears that no complete font was ever produced
    in the Anglo-Saxon style. Instead, it seems that Anglo-Saxon and Roman sorts were
    mixed, giving the resulting texts a rather schizophrenic appearance to the modern
    eye. Of course, the first Irish font took the same approach.\r\n\r\nIn any event,
    the Anglo-Saxon face is clearly a first cousin of the fonts we have been discussing
    (whether they are called 'Irish' or 'Gaelic') so there would appear to be a need
    for an umbrella term that would cover them both. 'Insular' perhaps?\r\n\r\nV."
  created: '2008-12-03 16:40:57'
- author:
    name: evertype
    picture: 109455
  body: "Yes, indeed the Anglo-Saxon faces are interesting. I mention two of them
    alongside the 1571 Queen Elizabeth type at my  [[http://www.evertype.com/celtscript/fonthist.html|Gaelic
    Typefaces: History and Classification]] page. The 1567 Anglo-Saxon type seems
    to have preceded Kearney's type, and in 1667 another Saxon face was made for Old
    English. I wonder how many there were in all. I have an early copy of Johnson's
    dictionary which uses it in the Old English etymologies.\r\n\r\nIt would take
    some study to find out whether a complete font was ever made for Old English;
    that page you pointed to is quite interesting.\r\n\r\nRegarding classification,
    however, I would not go for the term \"Insular Type\" as a substitute for \"Gaelic
    Type\". The reason is that while both the Kearney's Queen Elizabeth type and Day's
    Anglo-Saxon type were what I call <em>Hybrid</em> Gaelic Types, the ones for Old
    English were a dead-end, and did not develop past hybridism into a full class
    of types as the Gaelic types did. I'd class the Anglo-Saxon types as a minority
    variety of Gaelic Types, regardless of what language they were used for. \r\n\r\nNow
    <em>here's</em> something I bet you haven't seen. I've got an old 9\" x 12\" map
    of Ireland, undated but clearly very old. In two places it writes the word <strong>Greenwich</strong>
    in Gaelic script, but as <strong>Green\u01BFich</strong>, with a proper insular
    <em>wynn</em>!\r\n\r\n[[http://www.evertype.com/celtscript/images/learsgail.jpg|Mid-day
    in Greenwich]] from the legend of the map.\r\n\r\n[[http://www.evertype.com/celtscript/images/greenwich.gif|Latitude
    West of Greenwich]] from the bottom of the map.\r\n\r\nMichael Everson\r\nevertype.com"
  created: '2008-12-03 20:28:35'
- author:
    name: evertype
    picture: 109455
  body: "One thing that this makes me think of, Vincent, is the recommended character
    set for Gaelic fonts. I'm including <em>\u01BFynn</em> in mine these days alongside
    the <em>\xFEorn</em> and <em>e\xF0</em> I've always supported. (I've been updating
    my fonts for Unicode lately). I've seen your basic character set. I suspect we
    ought to discuss requirements (must-haves, nice-to-haves) at some stage.\r\n\r\nMichael
    Everson\r\nevertype.com"
  created: '2008-12-03 20:32:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I've added wynn, yogh, and tironian \"et\" to some recent new types I've
    developed.\r\nThose have Unicode points.\r\nI was also rather taken with the shape
    of \"insular g\", but it doesn't have a separate code point, so I left that out.\r\n\r\n<em>a
    rather schizophrenic appearance</em>\r\n\r\nI had particular difficulty adapting
    yogh to the modern style, as all the precedents I found were old-style, and the
    design of the character seems to have never evolved as type has.\r\n\r\nIMO, typefaces
    are ideas that can be expressed in a variety of scripts, within the related Greek-Latin-Cyrillic
    continuum (and no doubt beyond), which includes Gaelic. So there is no such thing
    as a Gaelic typeface, or for that matter a Greek, Latin, or Cyrillic typeface."
  created: '2008-12-03 23:05:32'
- author:
    name: evertype
    picture: 109455
  body: "Insular letters are now in Unicode, because of their use alongside Carolingian
    letters in some books on Irish phonetics and in Edward Lhuyd's 1707 <em>Archaeologia
    Britannica</em>. See this [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gaelic_type#Gaelic_script_in_Unicode|list
    of codepoints]].\r\n\r\nYogh can be a problem, true. \r\n\r\nWhile Cyrillic has
    long been adapted to Roman letterforms (<em>gra\u017Edanskij \u0161rift</em>)
    its first typographic expression was Slavonic type, which I would likewise distinguish
    from Roman and Blackletter and Gaelic. The difficulty in talking about these things
    is often a question of which level of abstraction one is using the words at. For
    instance, you say in your last line \"a Greek Latin, or Cyrillic typeface\". But
    these words are polysemous, and \"Latin\" is out of context here.\r\n\r\nLatin,
    Greek, and Cyrillic are scripts. Roman, Blackletter, Gaelic, and Slavonic are
    typeface classifications. \r\n\r\nLatin script was widely been written in Roman
    type and Blackletter type throughout Europe, with a minority development of with
    insular letterforms in Ireland's Gaelic type.\r\n\r\nGreek script was first set
    in script typefaces festooned with ligatures, mimicking the manuscript tradition.
    Greek lower-case certainly developed on its own, though its upper-case has pretty
    much always conformed to Roman type (not Latin script!) conventions, and in the
    last 50 years has certainly seen a lot of development (successful or unsuccessful)
    in Roman letterforms for its lower-case. \r\n\r\nCyrillic script was first set
    in Slavonic typefaces (from 1574), but Peter I introduced Roman type to Cyrillic
    letterforms in 1708 and they've been used there ever since.\r\n\r\nThere has always
    been a continuum (not least because Greek typefaces were made in Italy, for instance),
    but in terms of <em>classification</em> I think that Roman type, Blackletter type,
    Gaelic type, and Slavonic type are solid distinctions which can be described and
    applied fairly clearly, modulo hybridism.\r\n\r\nMichael Everson\r\nevertype.com"
  created: '2008-12-04 09:10:25'
- author:
    name: vincent_morley
    picture: 109590
  body: "You're right Michael - I haven't come across wynn in an Irish text before.
    Thinking about it, its use is quite logical, although it must have caused a few
    heads to be scratched when that map appeared (around 1900 would be my guess).\r\n\r\nI'm
    afraid I can't follow your argument that Anglo-Saxon typefaces were 'a minority
    variety of Gaelic Types'. While the use of 'Gaelic' instead of 'Irish' is merely
    imprecise, its application to the Anglo-Saxon types is simply wrong: they were
    cast to print Old English, they lacked characters essential for printing Irish,
    and they contained characters not used in Irish (with the interesting exception
    of your map). Also, if you apply the term 'Gaelic' to both the Irish and the Anglo-Saxon
    typefaces, what will you call the Irish typefaces (given that you've already ruled
    out 'Irish')?\r\n\r\nIt seems to me that Irish and Anglo-Saxon type are two independent
    expressions of the same script. The fact that the latter was used  only for antiquarian
    purposes proved to be an obstacle to its further development, but in principle
    it should be given equal status with Irish type in any system of categorisation.\r\n\r\nIt's
    interesting that both Nick and the Wikipedia article (did you write it?) use the
    term 'insular' when referring to particular letter forms, so I still think that
    is the obvious umbrella term for all the metal typefaces inspired by the insular
    scripts. \r\n\r\nYes, I agree that it would desirable to give some thought to
    agreeing a minimum character set for Irish/Gaelic fonts. You'll be familiar with
    Ciar\xE1n \xD3 Duibh\xEDn's arguments against a separate encoding for the tall
    's' and 'r'. I always felt that he was right at the level of pure logic but the
    practical utility of having those letters in the same font as the short forms
    has weighed more heavily with me.  However, the assignment of new code points
    to those letters, as well as to insular 'd', 'f', 'g' and 't', has greatly increased
    the scope for confusion. Ideally, one should be able to set an Irish text in Duibhlinn
    or Seanchl\xF3 or Gadelica, and then change to Times New Roman, Courier, Helvetica
    or any Unicode-compliant font. I can't see that happening if these insular code
    points are used and I'm drifting toward's Ciar\xE1n's view that every 's', irrespective
    of the shape of the glyph, should be coded to 00A2. Open Type features may provide
    a practical way of including alternative glyphs in the same font in due course.
    I'll need to think it over some more, but that's the way I'm leaning at present."
  created: '2008-12-05 02:21:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Latin, Greek, and Cyrillic are scripts. Roman, Blackletter, Gaelic, and
    Slavonic are typeface classifications.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think those are typeface
    classifications, not any more, not with large OpenType fonts.\r\nIt is possible
    to produce Roman, Blackletter, Gaelic and Slavonic variants of the same typeface,
    as stylistic sets within the same font.\r\nSurely this is the logical outcome
    of the OpenType/Unicode distinction between character and glyph?\r\n\r\nI guess
    I wasn't up to date with \"insular g\" etc. being Unicoded.\r\n\r\nIsn't wyn just
    an archaic glyph form for w?\r\nWhy does \"insular g\" warrant a separate Unicode
    point when, for instance, both single bowl g and double bowl g share one Unicode
    point?\r\nIt seems to me that a lot of Unicode proliferation is just for the sake
    of it."
  created: '2008-12-05 05:23:08'
- author:
    name: vincent_morley
    picture: 109590
  body: "<cite>It is possible to produce Roman, Blackletter, Gaelic and Slavonic variants
    of the same typeface, as stylistic sets within the same font.</cite>.\r\n\r\nAny
    comprehensive system of typeface classification has to be diachronic rather than
    synchronic: i.e. it should be equally applicable to metal typefaces from the 18th
    century as it is to the latest Unicode-compliant digital font. It follows that
    it can't be based on current design practice but rather on the lines of development
    through the ages. Arguing that Greek should be merged with Roman because their
    appearances have converged is a bit like saying that dolphins should be reclassified
    as fish because their legs have turned into fins. \r\n\r\n<cite>It seems to me
    that a lot of Unicode proliferation is just for the sake of it.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    have to agree that I don't see any merit in assigning code points to insular 'd',
    'f', 'g' or 't' - if it is necessary to mix those glyphs with Roman it would be
    preferable to use a second font. The situation with tall insular 'r' and 's' is
    somewhat different in that there was a practice, in both manuscript and early
    printing, to use the smaller forms at the end of words. This practice was also
    followed in Roman type with '\u017F' and 's' and it is still found in Greek with
    '\u03C3' and '\u03C2'. I think it made good sense to use the code point for '\u017F'
    in Irish fonts, although the situation with respect to the insular 'r' was less
    satisfactory and a reasonable case could have been made for giving that character
    its own code point. "
  created: '2008-12-05 10:58:23'
- author:
    name: evertype
    picture: 109455
  body: "Nick,\r\n\r\nThere is a difference between a face and a font. We don't classify
    fonts, but faces. That classification is done by shapes and features. (I'm not
    trying to lecture! But I think a lot of these words are used differently by many
    of us.)\r\n\r\nWynn is not an archaic form of W. It is a borrowing into the Latin
    script from the Runic script. Wikipedia has an [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wynn|article]]
    about it.\r\n\r\nInsular g was encoded because of contrastive use in Irish phonetic
    publications where \"\u1D79\" [\u0263] the voiced velar fricative is contrasted
    with \"g\" [\u0261] the voiced velar stop. See [[http://std.dkuug.dk/jtc1/sc2/wg2/docs/n2641.pdf|my
    proposal]] which got the letter encoded at U+1D79. \r\n\r\nNote too that the IPA
    letter '\u0261' <em>script g</em> is defined as not ever being a <em>double-bowl
    g</em>; that character has been encoded for a long time (U+0261).\r\n\r\nMichael
    Everson\r\nevertype.com"
  created: '2008-12-05 14:45:23'
- author:
    name: evertype
    picture: 109455
  body: "Vincent,\r\n\r\nI don't mean to say that the Anglo-Saxon typefaces <em>were</em>
    a minority variety of Gaelic Types; I mean to say that they <em>are</em> a minority
    variety of Gaelic Types. We're the ones who do classification. Back in the day,
    those were basically just Roman types to which they added some insular letters
    and letterforms. I call these \"hybrids\" since Roman types (properly speaking)
    really are Carolingian, not insular. The fact that they were devised for the Old
    English language is irrelevant. It would not be irrelevant had they continued
    to develop; if a rich variety of Anglo-Saxon faces had developed, it would be
    quite proper to classify both the ones used for English and the ones used for
    Irish as \"Insular Types\". They didn't, however, and the Anglo-Saxon types were
    a design dead-end. Both the Anglo-Saxon faces and the Queen Elizabeth face were
    incipient Gaelic Types, both hybrids in terms of their relation to the class of
    types which developed subsequently which have features which we (or I) call Gaelic.
    \r\n\r\nYour comment that \"they lacked characters essential for printing Irish\"
    is not relevant; we have Blackletter faces that have similar character-set restrictions.
    Traditional French <em>bastarda</em> Blackletter fonts are unlikely to have characters
    for Latvian or Icelandic, though Fraktur Blackletter faces used in Latvia and
    Iceland do. Again the fact that \"they contained characters not used in Irish\"
    doesn't matter either in terms of classification, because classification has to
    do with letterform, not character set. [[http://www.gaelchlo.org/unicode.html|Your
    own recommended character set]] contains \xDF and \xD0\xF0 and \xDE\xFE, after
    all. (Doubtless for modern computing reasons, but even so.)\r\n\r\nYou ask \"if
    you apply the term \u2019Gaelic\u2019 to both the Irish and the Anglo-Saxon typefaces,
    what will you call the Irish typefaces (given that you\u2019ve already ruled out
    \u2019Irish\u2019)?\" but I don't follow this. It may be a level-of-abstraction
    problem with vocabulary. Typefaces have names; Day's might be called \"Anglo-Saxon\"
    but De Walpurgus' is called \"Saxon\" and Peter Baker's is called \"Junius\".
    You and I have monospaced fonts called \"Aonchl\xF3\" and \"Doire\" respectively,
    which were developed with the Irish language in mind, but that doesn't, for me,
    mean that either \"Anglo-Saxon\" or \"Irish\" are sub-classifications within the
    class Gaelic type, because sub-classifications are based on the design shapes,
    not the intended use. Did I misunderstand you?\r\n\r\nI have comments too on the
    other interesting things you've said, but will get to them bit by bit.\r\n\r\nMichael
    Everson\r\nevertype.com"
  created: '2008-12-05 15:29:42'
- author:
    name: evertype
    picture: 109455
  body: "Vincent,\r\n\r\nI ought to have put this in my previous note... You say:
    \r\n\r\n<cite>\"It seems to me that Irish and Anglo-Saxon type are two independent
    expressions of the same script.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nand I have no quarrel with that.\r\n\r\nBut
    then you say \r\n\r\n<cite>\"The fact that the latter was used only for antiquarian
    purposes proved to be an obstacle to its further development, but in principle
    it should be given equal status with Irish type in any system of categorisation.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nBut
    categorization isn't based on intended usage, but rather the design of specific
    shapes. Even individual insular letterforms (</em>litirchruthanna inseacha</em>)
    themselves can be rendered in Roman or Blackletter or even Slavonic type styles.
    The bottom part of a double-bowl g is actualy quite insular in effect if not in
    origin (must check that). But I do think that \"Gaelic Type\" is the best translation
    for \"Cl\xF3 Gaelach\", and I can hardly imagine \"Cl\xF3 \xC9ireannach\" or \"Cl\xF3
    Inseach\" being candidates.\r\n\r\nI think that Day's Anglo-Saxon font and Kearney's
    Queen Elizabeth font are of equal status as Gaelic-Roman hybrids within the class
    of Gaelic Types.\r\n\r\nI find this discussion quite stimulating.\r\n\r\nMichael
    Everson\r\nevertype.com"
  created: '2008-12-05 15:42:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Michael,\r\n\r\nSorry, but I still think wynn is w.\r\nIgnoring sound shift,
    The \"w\" sound was represented in Anglo Saxon originally by uu.\r\nThen for a
    while scribes borrowed the rune glyph for this character, before returning to
    uu and thence w.\r\nIt has been standard practice during recent centuries to represent
    \"wynn\" by \"w\" in Anglo-saxon texts that otherwise employ eth and thorn, so
    isn't it creating unnecessary complication to introduce another code point?\r\n\r\nThere
    is a separate Unicode point for the Runic wynn, so why does \"Latin\" wynn need
    its own point?\r\nIt's just the character \"w\" with a different shape (glyph)
    and non-English name.\r\n\r\nLong s is another alternate glyph that doesn't merit
    its own code point.\r\nConsider older glyph-forms of other letters, that don't
    have their own code points, such as two-bowl g. (How does IPA have a bearing on
    this? Note that several new typefaces in OpenType format offer alternate forms
    of \"g\" with a single code point.)\r\n\r\nIn your continuing program of Unicode
    proliferation, might I suggest you investigate Trissino's \"omega\"?\r\nCertainly,
    one can point to Actual Printed Books in which the borrowed Greek \"long o\" shape
    indicates a phonetic distinction. :-)\r\n\r\n<em>We don\u2019t classify fonts,
    but faces. </em>\r\n\r\nExactly.\r\nIf I produce a font, with a consistent typographic
    style, which has both the standard Latin glyphs and \"Gaelic\" alternate glyphs,
    (with the same code points), as a Stylistic Set, why would this not be considered
    as part of a single typeface?  Although, as you imply, another version of the
    font could be made with \"Gaelic\" glyphs as the default. However, in that case,
    one would be classifying Gaelicness by font. Ergo, there is no such thing as a
    Gaelic typeface. \r\n\r\nIf I were to produce a Gaelic Stylistic Set, within that
    set \"insular g\" would not have its own code point.\r\n\r\nI guess my point is,
    that if one wants to encourage more authentic digital reproduction of ancient
    texts--and facilitate the production of new works in the old/national styles,
    it would be more useful to do so via stylistic sets of exisiting characters, rather
    than with special encoding. \r\n\r\nThe special character requirements of grammatical
    works that address pronunciation, shouldn't that meta-world of typography be kept
    separate from vernacular and literary usage? As science and math characters are?"
  created: '2008-12-05 19:52:51'
- author:
    name: evertype
    picture: 109455
  body: "Well, Neil, I've got to say you're just wrong here.\r\n\r\nLetters have histories.
    The Latin letter \"C\" is the same letter as Greek \"\u0393\" <em>gamma</em>,
    both deriving from Phoenician \""
  created: '2008-12-05 22:58:21'
- author:
    name: evertype
    picture: 109455
  body: "Regarding Trissino's omega I found on the internet this: <cite>'Arrighi added
    to his italic the new characters proposed by Trissino for the Italian alphabet.\"[i.e.
    differentiating between the open and closed \"o\" and \"e\" and by using Greek
    omega and epsilon; the replacement of consonantal \"i\" and \"u\" by \"j\" and
    \"v,\" and a distinction between hard and soft.\"]'</cite>\r\n\r\nNow I haven't
    seen the text Trissino proposed (scan, anyone?) but Latin letter open e is encoded
    at \u025B U+025B. We do lack currently a Latin letter omega but you will see one
    in the draft proposal I mentioned above, for the Initial Teaching Alphabet. \r\n\r\nMichael
    Everson\r\nevertype.com"
  created: '2008-12-05 23:11:38'
- author:
    name: evertype
    picture: 109455
  body: "I said \"We don\u2019t classify fonts, but faces.\"\r\n\r\nNick said: <cite>\"Exactly.
    If I produce a font, with a consistent typographic style, which has both the standard
    Latin glyphs and \u201CGaelic\u201D alternate glyphs, (with the same code points),
    as a Stylistic Set, why would this not be considered as part of a single typeface?
    Although, as you imply, another version of the font could be made with \u201CGaelic\u201D
    glyphs as the default. However, in that case, one would be classifying Gaelicness
    by font. Ergo, there is no such thing as a Gaelic typeface.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nProduction
    of a font isn't typeface classification. You can put whatever you want into a
    font. And you can mix and match and hybridize fantastically. Typeface classification
    was devised long before digital type. You can do whatever you want with OpenType
    trickery. That's a whole different level of abstraction from typeface classification.
    And doing what you suggest would not obliterate the classification of some types
    as Gaelic; yours would just be an anomalous exception that proves the rule.\r\n\r\nYou
    say: \"I guess my point is, that if one wants to encourage more authentic digital
    reproduction of ancient texts\u2014and facilitate the production of new works
    in the old/national styles, it would be more useful to do so via stylistic sets
    of exisiting characters, rather than with special encoding.\"\r\n\r\nThe people
    who actually <em>do</em> need to do authentic digital reproduction of ancient
    texts do not agree with you. They insist\u2014rightly\u2014on plain text character
    distinction. [[http://std.dkuug.dk/jtc1/sc2/wg2/docs/n3027.pdf|A proposal to encode
    medievalist characters]]\u2014which was successful\u2014begins with a short essay
    on why this is so. \r\n\r\nMichael Everson\r\nevertype.com"
  created: '2008-12-05 23:53:13'
- author:
    name: evertype
    picture: 109455
  body: "Vincent,\r\n\r\nYes, I remember Ciar\xE1n \xD3 Duibh\xEDn's arguments against
    a separate encoding for the insular-r and insular-s in a given Irish font. Once
    again we come to the question of characters and glyphs. From a practical standpoint,
    back in the early 1990s when there was no OpenType fanciness available, we took
    the decision to map insular-r to \"\u027C\" U+027C (an IPA character formerly
    used for Czech \"\u0159\") and insular-s to \"\u017F\" U+017F. In fact, insular
    s-with-dot was encoded at \"\u1E9B\" U+1E9B to support our legacy character sets.\r\n\r\nCiar\xE1n
    also argued that the Tironian et sign \"\u204A\" U+204A should be encoded on the
    ampersand \"&\" U+0026 but I successfully made the case to the encoding committees,
    since in origin the former was an ancient Roman symbol and the latter a ligature
    of e+t. On the Mac OS, the shipping Irish Extended keyboard layout places \u204A
    on shift-option-7 (shift-7 is & and option-7 is \xB6).\r\n\r\nAt the end of the
    day it really is a matter of the use to which data is put as well as the shapes
    the user wants. If you want to be able to change a font from Duibhlinn to Times,
    you <em>certainly</em> want a correspondence between the glyphs set in one and
    the glyph set in another. These days there are character considerations as well\u2014and
    it's muddy, and there's no \"right\" answer. The 1964 Dolmen press edition of
    <em>An B\xE9al Bocht</em> was typeset in a version of Times which used insular-t
    and insular-f. Actually, nowadays it's possible to represent that text in Times
    right alongside text with ordinary t and f\u2014because those insular letters
    were encoded. On page 51 in italics we have <em>\xE1ilnea\u010B\uA787</em> (for
    <em>\xE1ilneacht</em>) in Irish and <en>afactaiv</e> in \"English\" with insular-t
    on the first  and carolingian-t on the second. (Chances are you may not see the
    insular-t as it is new to Unicode and there is not likely to be too much support
    for it yet.)\r\n\r\nWhy were the insular letters encoded? Not for the B\xE9al
    Bocht. And not for Gaelic type either: these were encoded for use in Roman type.
    Edward Lhuyd's <em>Archaeologia Britannica</em> uses them as phonetic characters
    in his orthography for Late Cornish. Turned insular g (\"\uA77F\" U+A77F) is used
    for [\u014B]; insular-t (\"\uA787\" U+A787) is used for [\u03B8]; insular-d is
    used for [\xF0]. The others were also encoded to support lexicographical practice,
    such as in Johnson's Dictionary where he writes Old English with insular letters.
    [[http://std.dkuug.dk/jtc1/sc2/wg2/docs/n3122.pdf|My proposal]] gives the evidence
    for these. (I waffled about insular-e because I could not really find any contrast.)\r\n\r\nYou
    said: \"I can\u2019t see that happening if these insular code points are used
    and I\u2019m drifting toward\u2019s Ciar\xE1n\u2019s view that every \u2019s\u2019,
    irrespective of the shape of the glyph, should be coded to 00A2.\" As I say, it
    depends on what the intent of your document is. If you're typesetting something
    for print, it sure is handy to be able to distinguish these letters without having
    to worry whether or not the application you're using is smart enough to recognize
    the OpenType tables in your font. Most aren't and will never be. If you're putting
    something on the web, you need to take searching into account if you want people
    to find your text. (I don't know how Google treats insular-s. I know that if you
    search <em>congre\u017Fs</em> you get 200 million hits including <em>congress</em>;
    you have to do an advanced search \"congre\u017Fs -congress\" to get 200 hits
    with the long s. \r\n\r\nAs you know my own Gaelic faces had not been updated
    to Unicode for many years. I've been rectifying this recently and in general have
    been supporting a larger character set, iIncluding the insular letters, simply
    because you can't trust users not to want to use them.\r\n\r\nOne of the really
    interesting things we need to do is ensure that old Gaelic fonts that support
    the manuscript abbreviations are encoded appropriately. We ought to do that after
    settling some things about general character set recommendations though.\r\n\r\nMichael
    Everson\r\nevertype.com"
  created: '2008-12-06 10:04:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Yes, I can see that from the paleographer's perspective it may appear quite
    convenient to have character alternates separately encoded. It makes it easy to
    accurately transcribe, transport, and recreate, a manuscript document.\r\nBut
    what of the words?\r\nFor instance, consider medieval Latin abbreviations. If
    they are hard-coded in plain text, then the same writing, rendered by different
    scribes willy-nilly for purposes of squaring off the line, will suffer a diaspora.
    But perhaps I am mistaken, and search engines will track down \"similar to\" texts,
    enabling scholars to assess the significance, if any, of the abbreviations.\r\n\r\nNonetheless,
    it does seem to me that the either/or nature of the character-glyph distinction
    is too uncompromising a map of subtle terrain, and that some form of triad would
    be better. \r\n\r\nAre the medievalists who support encoding medieval characters
    fully aware of the potential of OpenType fonts?\r\n\r\nWhy not utilise an OpenType
    feature--Stylistic Sets--to represent Latin abbreviations in the form of \"rich
    text\" documents? Regarding polyvariance: even though \"q with stroke through
    descender\" may indicate quam, que, qui, etc., in any given document the underlying
    character string is specific, and decomposition will return to it. For the rare
    occasion where there is some doubt as to the underlying string, then perhaps a
    precomposed abbreviation may be set. However, even when the transcription of the
    underlying characters is incorrect, if the digital document is rich text, e.g.
    PDF made with Quark, InDesign or LaTeX, it will still be faithful to the appearance
    of the original manuscript.\r\n\r\nHere are three things which are getting muddled
    up, because the third is not factored in:\r\n\r\n1. Typeface: a style of letter
    design which may be applied to any character in any script\r\n2. Font: a collection
    of Unicoded and non-Unicoded glyphs, in the same typeface style\r\n3. Template:
    a set of culturally related basic letter forms--individual instances may or may
    not have distinct Unicode points. \r\n\r\nSo, a typeface may be Gaelic, in the
    sense that the first (or possibly only) fonts produced in its style followed the
    Gaelic template.\r\nBut this doesn't preclude that the typeface may be applied,
    as Michael says, to other scripts and templates. \r\nA font may be Gaelic, in
    the sense that its default glyphs follow the Gaelic template, even though it may
    have alternates which follow the main Latin template. But in a multi-template
    font, the default is unlikely to be Gaelic, and will probably follow the keypad
    glyphs of the dominant market.\r\nA template may be Gaelic, in the sense that
    it is a set of letter forms associated with Gaelic culture, although its various
    letter forms and encodings may or may not be shared with other templates.\r\n\r\nThe
    prime example of a template is italic.\r\nAnother is the \"Bolgaritsa\" version
    of the Cyrillic alphabet used in Bulgaria.\r\nThe alphabets used by languages
    are templates. \r\n\r\nA comprehensive medievalist font, as pointed to by the
    proposal of Mr Everson et al, would contain templates for many languages, and
    superceed single-language-specific fonts. Such a font could not be classified
    as Gaelic, Nordic, or whatever, and neither could the typeface it represented.
    This kind of font is not an anomaly, but the shape of system fonts to come, if
    not already. Not to mention Old Standard.\r\n\r\nAs for \"OpenType trickery\",
    there is nothing to stop type designers from making fonts with stylistic sets
    (as per my \"Bolgaritsa\" for the Modern Suite) that render alternate templates.
    What we should do is make two sets of glyphs. So, for Gaelic \"t\", in the Stylistic
    Set, it should be \"t.gael\", with the basic t encoding uni0074. And quite isolated,
    another uniXXXX, accessible only though a glyph palette or typing in the code--a
    more laborious method. Is the essence of the insular t really that it is a quite
    distinct character from standard t?--surely in most circumstances it is a stylistic
    alternate, and best accessed through a single keypad and a font/layout modifier.
    Indeed, in the arguments for the legitimacy of encoding the Gaelic template, the
    Gaelic forms are said to have been used in stylistic opposition to Carolignian.
    Art direction, not writing.\r\n\r\nDoesn't the encoding of templates restrict
    the accessibility of texts? The more general reader, for instance, prefers not
    to read pre-1800 literature with long s's. For Gaelic typesetting of recent writing,
    it seems reasonable to assume that foundries will cover the template as a stylistic
    set within a megafont \"Meta\" or \"Garamond\", not with a separate Gaelic-only
    font, and that non academic users will \"get\" that. I create a few extra glyphs,
    assign their substitution to a stylistic set, et voil\xE0.\r\n\r\nWhen I first
    created the \"scripty\" variants of the basic alphabet that are included in the
    Greek Unicode block, for the Modern Suite, I decided to make them accessible via
    a Stylistic Set; it was then that I realized I would have to duplicate the glyphs
    (a similar thing is necessary with superior figures) to maintain plain text. Then
    I ended up categorizing my Greek stylistic sets, as usage practice varies for
    the characters/glyphs. Interestingly, in InDesign, stylistic sets may be applied
    additively. There is an example of this on page 42 of the specimen PDF: http://www.shinntype.com/Figgins_Scotch.pdf"
  created: '2008-12-06 18:40:49'
- author:
    name: vincent_morley
    picture: 109590
  body: "Michael wrote:\r\n\r\n<cite>But categorization isn\u2019t based on intended
    usage, but rather the design of specific shapes. Even individual insular letterforms
    (litirchruthanna inseacha) themselves can be rendered in Roman or Blackletter
    or even Slavonic type styles.</cite>\r\n\r\nCategorisation should not be based
    purely (or even primarily) on superficial appearances - if it were, dolphins would
    be fish and snakes would be worms. The categorisation of typefaces should be approached
    in the same way as the categorisation of organisms, or languages, or religions
    - or of any set of elements that have evolved over time. The categorisation, when
    complete, should take the form of a family tree showing, for example, how humanist
    script begat humanist type which begat old style type which begat transitional
    type which begat modern type - of which (say) Bodoni is an example.\r\n\r\nThere
    may be exceptions in other parts of the world (Cherokee or similar), but in Europe
    all of our modern type styles can be traced back to a particular script, which
    in turn had about two thousand years of evolution behind it before it was adapted
    for use in movable metal type. While the insular minuscule hand arose in Ireland
    and was introduced to Britain from here, it didn't stop evolving when the English
    got hold of it. By the tenth century at the latest, Anglo-Saxon minuscule was
    easily (even I can do it) distinguishable from Irish minuscule - the lower case
    letters are wider and rounder but the most striking differences are in the capitals
    which developed forms rarely or never seen in Ireland and which resembled Roman
    rustic capitals rather than the insular-style capitals that were the norm here.
    Then look at the capitals in Anglo-Saxon typefaces and the same feature appears
    - this is a striking divergence from even the earliest Irish typefaces.\r\n\r\nSo
    the reason why there should be two sub-categories for Irish and Anglo-Saxon typefaces
    isn't because one was used to print Irish and the other to print Old English,
    it is because they represent two lines of evolution. \r\n\r\n<cite>But I do think
    that \u201CGaelic Type\u201D is the best translation for \u201CCl\xF3 Gaelach\u201D,
    and I can hardly imagine \u201CCl\xF3 \xC9ireannach\u201D or \u201CCl\xF3 Inseach\u201D
    being candidates.<cite>\r\n\r\nIrish and English are very different languages
    and, as with any pair of languages, cognate terms often have different semantic
    ranges. In English, 'Gaelic' has linguistic and ethnic connotations, but in Irish
    'Gaelach' is not often used in either of those senses: for example, 'Gaelic grammar'
    or the 'the Gaelic nobility' would typically be expressed as  'gramadach na Gaeilge'
    and 'uaisle na nGael' respectively. Instead, 'Gaelach' is commonly used for a
    spectrum of over-lapping ideas ranging from 'Irish' through 'native' to 'homely'
    and on to 'rustic'. It can have either positive ('unaffected') or negative ('unsophisticated')
    connotations, depending on the context.  Thus 'cn\xF3 Gaelach' ('Irish nut') means
    the indigenous hazel nut, whereas the imported walnut is 'cn\xF3 Francach' ('French
    nut'). \r\n\r\nIn short, 'Gaelic' \u2260 'Gaelach'.\r\n\r\nThe nomenclature I
    would suggest is:\r\nInsular type ('cl\xF3 inseach'), subdivided into Irish type
    ('cl\xF3 Gaelach') and Anglo-Saxon type ('cl\xF3 Angla-Shacsanach').\r\n\r\n<cite>If
    you\u2019re typesetting something for print, it sure is handy to be able to distinguish
    these letters without having to worry whether or not the application you\u2019re
    using is smart enough to recognize the OpenType tables in your font. Most aren\u2019t
    and will never be.</cite>\r\n\r\nI agree that OpenType's day has not yet come
    - but I do believe it will come. When the applications in MS Office and OpenOffice
    are able to use its 'tricks', and then save the resulting document in PDF format,
    OpenType will have arrived and this debate will be largely redundant (except perhaps
    for some legacy issues). But until that great simplification occurs, I'd prefer
    not to make things more complex than they already are. You've explained why the
    insular letter forms were included in Unicode, and not being familiar with mediaeval
    Welsh manuscripts or obsolete phonetic systems, I am happy to accept that there
    were sufficient reasons for doing so. However, I would not like to encourage anyone
    to use those specialised characters when processing ordinary text in Irish. Lower
    case 'r' and 's' are arguable exceptions, but on balance I'm tending towards the
    view that it might be 'less bad' to stick with the existing encoding until the
    OpenType cavalry rides to the rescue.\r\n\r\nThe Irish scribal contractions are
    another issue entirely. I had understood it was Unicode policy to ignore abbreviations,
    but the document you referenced above indicates that a great many have now been
    recognised - including some of the Tironian notes that were commonly used in both
    Irish manuscripts and type down to the mid-19th century. If some of these are
    admitted to Unicode, then why not all?  The set of contractions in my Bunchl\xF3
    na Nod is not fully comprehensive, but I think it includes all the common contractions,
    and I had been thinking of preparing a keyboard layout that would allow them to
    be keyed more easily - but if there is any likelihood of Unicode taking on this
    area I would definitely wait for the results of their work and recode the font
    before producing a keyboard ... \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-06 18:45:05'
date: '2008-11-19 10:40:35'
node_type: forum
title: Roman type, Blackletter type, Gaelic type

---
