---
author:
  name: hawk
  picture: 110225
body: Carol Twombly Adobe Caslon <BR> <BR>i&#39;m trying to find out what sources
  she used to design Adobe Caslon? &#40; i know that one of them published by Caslon
  in 1734&#41; <BR> <BR>is there an interview with her? &#40;about the design&#41;
  <BR> <BR>thank you <BR> <BR>David
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'In Serif magazine there was: <BR>1&#41; An interview with Twombly. <BR>2&#41;
    An article about Caslons. <BR> <BR>But good luck tracking down Don Hosek for back
    issues... He split with my subscription money, with no issue #7 in sight. And
    to think he&#39;s a founding board member of TypeRight, an <i>ethics</i> organization.
    <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-07-03 22:04:41'
- author:
    name: hawk
    picture: 110225
  body: thank you
  created: '2003-07-03 22:37:46'
- author:
    name: jfp
    picture: 110395
  body: There is also the small Adobe specimen dating back the launch of the face
    with some comments and showings of drawings methods.
  created: '2003-07-03 23:23:54'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: The Serif article &#40;Number 3, Fall 1995&#41; says that &#34;Twombly worked
    primarily from a 1924 specimen from the Caslon foundry, although she refered also
    to specimens from 1738 and 1768...&#34;
  created: '2003-07-05 11:20:35'
- author:
    name: serafino
  body: John, <BR> <BR>That agrees with my recollections of conversations with Sumner
    Stone previous to Adobe&#39;s release. <BR> <BR>Gerald Giampa
  created: '2003-07-05 14:32:30'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'In this thread: <a href="http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/30/12111.html?1056150118"
    target="_blank">http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/30/12111.html?1056150118</a>
    John Hudson posted a sample of the 1924 example. And as I said in that thread,
    when I typed Adobe Caslon at the same size over it, it matched very closely, except
    for the ink spread. '
  created: '2003-07-05 21:08:54'
- author:
    name: serafino
  body: William, <BR> <BR>Can you tell me what you recall about that. Was there more
    weight in the Adobe version, or in Hudson&#39;s posting? <BR> <BR>We are digitizing
    display Caslon No. 437 to work with our Lanston Caslon 337.
  created: '2003-07-05 21:16:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I think there is more weight in Hudson&#39;s posting, but I can&#39;t be
    sure. Hudson&#39;s sample is scanned, and is what I believe what they call  aliased
    - it has half-tone pixels around it. I think he said it was 14 point, but to match
    it on screen I had to type 60 point Adobe Caslon. So with all this scaling, I
    don&#39;t have the technical know-how to say how the originals would compare.
    But in my test, yes, John Hudson&#39;s sample of the 1924 Caslon in general seemed
    to have more weight, but it wasn&#39;t consistent.  <BR> <BR>John Hudson&#39;s
    1924 sample is significantly different from my sample of Linotype Caslon Old Face,
    and from the printed sample I have of metal Caslon 337, which I am assuming your
    digital version matches. I am pretty sure it is more regularized than the Linotype
    or your version - or, I suspect, the work of old William himself.  '
  created: '2003-07-05 21:33:30'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Unfortunately, I don&#39;t have any close-up photographs of the 1924 Caslon
    12pt, which would probably be the best to compare to Carol&#39;s Adobe Caslon.
    If I&#39;m able to take some in the near future, I&#39;ll make a graphic comparing
    the two. I have the camera equipment and the book here, but no decent lighting
    equipment.
  created: '2003-07-05 22:18:44'
- author:
    name: serafino
  body: John, <BR> <BR>What kind of camera equipment are you using? I am using a 4
    x 5 sheet film camera. You may remember Lanston used to have a copy camera and
    darkroom in the loft. But this 4 x 5 camera seems to do the trick. I am just wondering
    if you have ever used one with high contrast film? <BR> <BR>Our Caslon 437 was
    based on a Caslon model previous to the Caslon Foundry refit in 1924. <BR> <BR>About
    Adobe&#39;s Caslon however I have new recollections. I recall Sumner Stone mentioning
    Adobe looked at all pt sizes choosing not to base theirs on any specific size.
    I may remember wrong. <BR> <BR>Do you know anything about that?  <BR> <BR>Gerald
    Giampa
  created: '2003-07-06 13:34:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I&#39;m using a digital camera, a Nikon 930 with a built in macro lense. Using
    the macro lense, I can pretty much fill the frame with a couple of 14pt punches,
    which is pretty good for a relatively inexpensive and portable camera. <BR> <BR>Regarding
    Adobe Caslon, I believe you are correct in characterising it as a kind of amalgamation
    of details from many different sizes of the metal type. The was Adobe&#39;s approach
    at that time and is also seen in their Garamond. Later they got into optical sizing,
    but using interpolation, which is very different from approaching each size as
    an individual design.
  created: '2003-07-06 18:38:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Looking again at the relatively heavy impression in the 1924 specimen, I&#39;m
    reminded that the revival of interest and usage of Caslon Old Face in Britain
    was initiated, in the late 19th century, by the Chiswick Press. I used to have
    a copy of a Chiswick Press edition of <i>The Golden &#149;&#149;&#149;</i>, and
    the printing was very heavy. They used a large size of Caslon, possibly 18pt but
    certainly no smaller than 14pt, and a <i>very</i> black ink. This may have contributed
    to a fashion for over-inking Caslon in Britain to make it look heavier.
  created: '2003-07-06 18:44:32'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Ahem! It seems Typophile objects to ancient Roman donkeys.
  created: '2003-07-06 18:48:33'
- author:
    name: serafino
  body: I wonder if it was just in fashion to over-ink &#34;all types&#34; in England
    and not just Caslon. <BR> <BR>I hired an Englishman, generally a good pressman
    but I was never happy at the quantity of ink. It&#39;s not that I am cheap, black
    does not cost much and it goes far. But many pressman overink. Scott Fruetel formerly
    of Spring Valley Press was a superb Monotype Keyboard operator and pressman.  Friend
    of Clifford Burke, had another characteristic which was &#34;almost&#34; as bad.
    <BR> <BR>He would &#34;underink&#34;. His type was sharp but the printing looked
    like it was through a washer. So there are many opinions. <BR> <BR>My personal
    taste is well known. I leaned towards the qualities of Font le Roy. He was John
    Henry Nash&#39;s pressman. <BR> <BR>But that point I am tired of labouring. One
    nice thing about the typophiles is their liking for diversity of opinions and
    the appreciation for humour. Not to mention the ongoing quest for knowledge. <BR>
    <BR>In any event, I have earned my opinions. <BR> <BR>Don&#39;t you think. <BR>
    <BR>By the way I tried to see you many times when I was in Vancouver in the fall,
    I was disappointed not to find you. I would like to attend ATPi this year in Vancouver
    but I am doing a speaking tour in Europe on the &#34;National Hand of Finland&#34;
    and some on printers fleurons. I would like to run this National Hand of Finland
    by you but this is not the topics heading so maybe I should just summarize it
    and e-mail it to you. This is a transitional face I have followed in early stone
    cuttings. <BR> <BR>But I do look forward to anything you have on Caslon as reading
    and resource material in Finland is scarce, especially in English. <BR> <BR>  <BR>
    <BR>Gerald Giampa <BR>
  created: '2003-07-06 19:41:33'
- author:
    name: rcapeto
  body: '<i>Ahem! It seems Typophile objects to ancient Roman donkeys.</i> <BR> <BR>Isn&#39;t
    this silly? <BR> <BR>But the censor is monoglot: Culo! Schei'
  created: '2003-07-06 22:51:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; many pressman overink <BR> <BR>Bingo. <BR> <BR>Also: <BR>1&#41; Not
    just many, but most. <BR>2&#41; Not just over-ink, but also over-impress. <BR>
    <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-07-07 00:02:11'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: The fashion in &#39;fine&#39; printing in Britain in the late 19th and early
    20th centuries was heavily influenced by Morris and St John Hornby, of course,
    who both favoured blackletter and what might be called the Italian black roman,
    derived from the Schweynheym &amp; Pannartz types. Heavy black type driven deeply
    into heavy rag paper was the style of the day, and probably made a lasting impression
    &#40;sorry for the pun&#41; on generations of British printers, even when they
    were using types not intended for this kind of treatment. <BR> <BR>Sorry I missed
    you in Vancouver, Gerald. I was in Rome and Britain in the autumn. The National
    Hand of Finland sounds very interesting.
  created: '2003-07-07 00:38:17'
- author:
    name: serafino
  body: John, <BR> <BR>Thankfully that disgusting habit came to pass by &#34;wiser&#34;
    printers in North America. Some techies foolishly find it desirable and want to
    enshrine overinking. Reminds me of &#34;fake graining in wood&#34;. Fake inking,
    &#34;let me shake my head&#34;. I can
  created: '2003-07-07 07:47:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; But each to their own <BR> <BR>&#62; I just like to be able to see
    the letterforms <BR> <BR>And I like Lapsang Souchong. But I don&#39;t know anybody
    else who does. <BR> <BR>Thinking that personal preference should be the main guide
    is anathema to <i>craft</i>. <BR> <BR>&#62; I am not a type designer <BR> <BR>Yes,
    I think you&#39;re too much of an artist to be one. <BR> <BR>-- <BR> <BR>BTW,
    don&#39;t understimate the very human relevance of freedom <i>from</i> choice.
    <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-07-07 16:33:58'
- author:
    name: serafino
  body: Hrant, <BR> <BR>How nice of you to say. <BR>
  created: '2003-07-07 17:30:28'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: Gerald <BR> <BR>I went to your site to look at the award for Bodoni 26. I
    think you may have misdirected the URL. All I could find was the Paul Shaw listing.
    Is this the same? It&#39;s not listed in the Awards section&#40;?&#41;.
  created: '2003-07-07 19:07:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: You don&#39;t like poetry, do you, James. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-07-07 20:06:10'
- author:
    name: serafino
  body: James, <BR> <BR>I am glad you pointed that out, it is most embarrasing. Frankly
    I don&#39;t think much of it. Paul Shaw has a nice list though don&#39;t you think.
    <BR> <BR>Gerald Giampa
  created: '2003-07-07 20:25:45'
- author:
    name: serafino
  body: James, <BR> <BR><a href="http://www.lanstontype.com/GiampaWonders.html" target="_blank">http://www.lanstontype.com/GiampaWonders.html</a>
    <BR> <BR>Hrant, everyone like poetry, artists too. <BR> <BR><a href="http://www.lanstontype.com/GiampaPipePress.html"
    target="_blank">http://www.lanstontype.com/GiampaPipePress.html</a> <BR> <BR>Gerald
    Giampa <BR> <BR>
  created: '2003-07-07 21:24:22'
- author:
    name: serafino
  body: 'Hrant, <BR> <BR>Palatino, sorry that&#39;s not &#34;Ink Trapping&#34;. Its
    &#34;Optical Scaling&#34;. <BR> <BR>Gerald Lange agrees with me. Read the comment
    from the unknown one? <BR> <BR>Gerald Giampa '
  created: '2003-07-07 21:31:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Wrong thread. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-07-07 21:35:40'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: 'Gerald <BR> <BR>This was me only comment on the Palatino: <BR> <BR>&#34;Amazing
    the difference between the metal version of Palatino compared to the digital.
    The explanation of this at <BR><a href="http://briem.ismennt.is/2/2.3.1a/2.3.1.02.contents.htm"
    target="_blank">http://briem.ismennt.is/2/2.3.1a/2.3.1.02.contents.htm</a> <BR>is
    completely unfantomable to me.&#34; <BR> <BR>This had nothing to do with optical
    scaling or ink trapping but with the makeover of the letterforms themselves. Please
    don&#39;t take poetic license with my words for your own purposes, whatever the
    hell those may be. <BR> '
  created: '2003-07-07 21:49:10'
- author:
    name: serafino
  body: Gerald, <BR> <BR>Wrong thread. <BR> <BR>Gerald Giampa
  created: '2003-07-07 22:00:28'
- author:
    name: serafino
  body: Gerald <BR> <BR>But you do agree with me don&#39;t you. It is a great job
    of &#34;optical scaling&#34;? <BR> <BR>But maybe you two should move back over
    to the other wrong thread and prepare for your really big show. You might have
    it right this time? Garamond, can&#39;t wait. You just might get it right. <BR>
    <BR>I hope so. <BR> <BR>Gerald Giampa <BR>P.S. I hope so. You know, we all hope
    so. <BR> <BR>
  created: '2003-07-07 22:10:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: This would be maddening, if it simply weren&#39;t so much more pathetic. <BR>
    <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-07-07 22:26:00'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: 'Actually, Gerald, I find it hard to agree or disagree with anything you say,
    as everything you say is completely self-referential. '
  created: '2003-07-07 23:13:47'
- author:
    name: hawk
    picture: 110225
  body: John,William <BR> <BR>i&#39;m trying to find out if Carol used Caslon old
    face - Stephenson, Blake &amp; Co.,  ; ATF Caslon 471 is much close to Stephenson
    - then 540. <BR> <BR>with Linotype, Monotype, and ATF - you&#39;re going to find
    inconsistencies. <BR> <BR>i&#39;m going to have some original - by Stephenson
    &#40; to compare to Adobe&#41; <BR> <BR> <BR>David hamuel <BR>
  created: '2003-07-08 01:59:53'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: 'Just a note here: <BR> <BR>Couldn&#39;t hurt to ask someone who really knows
    Caslon. <BR> <BR>Justin Howes has done some rather extensive scholarly study on
    the Caslon punches and matrices, including an inventory, which was published in
    _Matrix 20_. <BR> <BR>It might be worth asking him. He is, as you all know, the
    producer of Founder&#39;s Caslon, but he is also currently the Curator of The
    Type Museum, the depository for the Caslon materials of Stephenson Blake and the
    earlier Caslon foundry. <BR> <BR><a href="http://www.typemuseum.org/" target="_blank">http://www.typemuseum.org/</a>
    <BR> <BR>Gerald Lange'
  created: '2003-07-08 02:40:09'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: david <BR> <BR>I had completely forgotten about this, and did not at first
    understand that yours was the initiating post here. Last year I had published
    an article on &#34;digital type with an affinity for letterpress&#34; for _Parenthesis_
    that included a review of Founder&#39;s Caslon and dfTYPE&#39;s Rialto. In that
    I state that the Adobe Caslon was based on Caslon foundry specimens sheets from
    1738 and 1786. This information would have come from an earlier review I did on
    the initial Adobe Originals releases. Carter&#39;s Big Caslon was based on titling
    sizes that appeared in the famous broadsheet specimen of 1734. The metal typeface,
    Lanston Monotype Caslon Oldstyle 337 is considered the &#34;closed rendition&#34;
    to the [American] Laurence J Johnson Caslon &#40;1859&#41;, which was derived
    from &#34;borrowed Caslon foundry punches,&#34; and which marked the beginning
    of the American Caslon revival. This was inspired by the British revival of Caslon
    in 1844 through its use in Chiswick Press books. Caslon had fallen out of popularity
    by the nineteenth century. The Caslon specimen book of 1805 does not show the
    Old Style typeface. <BR> <BR>Gerald Lange
  created: '2003-07-08 03:03:49'
- author:
    name: serafino
  body: Gerald <BR> <BR>I have reviewed my poets license. It is good until my sixtieth
    birthday unless I return to Canada. There I have an honorary lifetime licence.
    <BR> <BR>So I take that as a yes. You do agree. <BR> <BR>The following I do not
    require any license for and this is not a loaded question. For now lets bookend
    the other little matters. <BR> <BR>I am interested in reading anything you wrote
    on Caslon. Have ever printed anything with Kennerly Oldstyle? I seem to have remembered
    something. Also, do you happen to know when the Caslon Foundry introduced the
    st tied ligature? Or should I ask Justin? By the way, you guys nicely inked the
    type for Hrants scan. Are you using a reproduction proof press? <BR> <BR>I am
    still very interested in your Gutenberg material. I may know somethings that would
    interest you. You could write me at <a href="mailto:sales@lanstontype.com">sales@lanstontype.com</a>.
    <BR> <BR> <BR>Gerald Giampa
  created: '2003-07-08 06:46:46'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: Okay Gerald <BR> <BR>No more games. <BR> <BR>Last thing I wrote on Caslon
    was in _Parenthesis_, The Journal of the Fine Press Book Association, Number 7,
    November, 2002. <BR> <BR>I&#39;d have to check previous writings. There was one
    on Lanston. Affirmative by the way. I&#39;m sure a copy was sent to you. <BR>
    <BR>As a beginner, yeah, I was enamored with Goudy. I&#39;ve printed with Kennerly,
    Goudy Old Style, Garamont, Forum, Goudy Text, Goudy Thirty, California &#40;thought
    you were going to bring that out?&#41;, Village, etc. Been through the Goudy thing.
    <BR> <BR>I do not know when Caslon introduced the tied ligature. Justin is the
    best information source. <BR> <BR>I did not ink the Hrant piece. He did that himself.
    And we did not hold hands, jackass. <BR> <BR>Yes, a reproduction press. <BR> <BR>Gutenberg.
    He&#39;s not my man. What have you got on Schoeffer? <BR> <BR>Gerald
  created: '2003-07-08 07:12:00'
- author:
    name: serafino
  body: Gerald <BR> <BR>&#34;And we did not hold hands, jackass.&#34; <BR> <BR>Just
    teasing, sorry. Hrant did a good job. Not teasing. &#34;Might be sorry later,
    hope not.&#34; <BR> <BR>Yes, I have digitized California except for several characters,
    xy and z of the small capitals. The original patterns Goudy made in his studio
    at Deepdene are in Squamish BC. I have to figure out how to get them here. These
    are not made of brass but of lead so the freight will be substantial. Also I don&#39;t
    have a proof press. Hrant seems to be good at inking. Hmmm! <BR> <BR>The personage
    that has the patterns would not know how to separate the characters I need. Those
    three missing characters would hardly cost anything to ship. Maybe I should consider
    that. Just thinking out loud. Perhaps I could bribe him. <BR> <BR>You would not
    know anyone that would want to buy the patterns do you? Almost all of them are
    lead made by Goudy, the others are brass made by Lanston when they cut it for
    the University. <BR> <BR>I do not have anything you wrote on the Caslon unless
    it was contained in that beautiful broadside your printed. <BR> <BR>That went
    the way of the tidal wave. My books on the top most shelves survived. The others
    readable but valueless otherwise. <BR> <BR>&#34;What have you got on Schoeffer?&#34;
    <BR> <BR>Nothing, but have you looked &#34;very&#34; closely at all the supposed
    Gutenberg material. Think &#34;hand set&#34;, you may find it an interesting study.
    <BR> <BR>The st tied ligature, I will ask Justin.  <BR> <BR>Thank you.  <BR> <BR>Gerald
    Giampa
  created: '2003-07-08 08:07:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: As I wrote &#40;in the <i>correct</i> thread&#41;, the inking you saw in that
    Pascal &#34;bd&#34; was intended to extract the outlines, traps and all. This
    resulted in too-light bodies, which to me makes the inking inadequate in terms
    of typography, which is the craft of communicating, not showing letterform outlines.
    <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-07-08 16:03:26'
- author:
    name: serafino
  body: Hrant, <BR> <BR>But I thought <BR> <BR>&#34;Thinking that personal preference
    should be the main guide is anathema to craft.&#34; <BR> <BR>You said that. But
    now this. <BR> <BR>&#34;which to me makes the inking inadequate in terms of typography,
    which is the craft of communicating, not showing letterform outlines.&#34; <BR>
    <BR>A Marshall McCluan fan I knew it. <BR> <BR>But no matter. I think we need
    not chew cud. <BR> <BR>Can you do me a favour and repeat the URL for me. I am
    worried we are going around the &#34;ink spread enhances type routine&#34;. I
    thought we established you had &#34;preferences&#34; for bolder types. That&#39;s
    OK with me. I have no problem with that. Also we have already agreed about the
    ink spread matter. Remember. So lets leave it at that. <BR> <BR>Beside I think
    that type is very bold compared to Caslon. Maybe to you it is not yet bold enough.
    <BR> <BR>But your inking is good. And I trust we will eventually start talking
    about optical scaling which I happen to know you are interested in. So am I. So
    maybe we should think about that? There is no point in disagreeing with something
    we both agree about. <BR> <BR>So please tell me about your flowers? This is not
    a loaded question. <BR> <BR>Gerald Giampa
  created: '2003-07-08 17:35:39'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: Gerald <BR> <BR>Don&#39;t have much time for the back and forth today but
    your comment... <BR> <BR>Nothing, but have you looked &#34;very&#34; closely at
    all the supposed Gutenberg material. Think &#34;hand set&#34;, you may find it
    an interesting study.  <BR> <BR> <BR>...is of interest. I try to keep up on current
    findings regarding early printing. I have recently been entertaining the notion
    that B-42 was not done in what we now consider the traditional way. There are
    far too many anomalies that don&#39;t fit the accepted pattern. And I find it
    hard to believe that our great benefactor had limited his interests to this one
    technique. <BR> <BR>For what faces do you have &#34;patterns.&#34; There may be
    an instituion that would be interested. <BR> <BR>Gerald
  created: '2003-07-08 17:43:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62;&#62; Thinking that personal preference should be the main guide is
    anathema to craft. <BR> <BR>Yes, and I myself prefer letterform fidelity over
    solid bodies &#40;even if it means lower readability&#41;. This is because I design
    type myself, and appreciate the letterforms for their own sake in a way that the
    layman doesn&#39;t &#40;and shouldn&#39;t have to&#41;. I also prefer darkish
    letterforms, but on the type design side, not the printing side: the latter is
    counter to my fidelity preference. <BR> <BR>But the point is that what I prefer
    is moot. When I create/print a piece, it is targeted at a certain demographic
    &#40;and that&#39;s never me&#41;. Otherwise it&#39;s selfish art. <BR> <BR>That&#39;s
    not to say one can exclude personal preferences from anything one does - that&#39;s
    not possible. The key thing in <i>craft</i> is to let such preferences manifest
    naturally, in the context of the communicative requirements of the piece. When
    you frame and celebrate your preferences, it is less craft. <BR> <BR>&#62; ink
    spread enhances <BR> <BR>I was avoiding explicitly refuting this &#40;and your
    other distortions&#41;, because I didn&#39;t &#40;and still don&#39;t&#41; think
    it will stop you from twisting people&#39;s words &#40;and &#34;awards&#34;&#41;
    in order to feed your psychological coping mechanism with respect to your dying
    past. But since people reading this don&#39;t necessarily have the benefit of
    reading the source thread &#40;which for some reason you keep avoiding, hijacking
    this one instead&#41;: <BR>1&#41; I don&#39;t think ink spread enhances type,
    in the same way that I don&#39;t think a fender-bender enhances driving. But their
    <i>existence</i> means that traps and seatbelts are useful. <BR>2&#41; I think
    optical scaling is an extremely valuable technique, that was undermined by the
    pantograph, and that most foundries &#40;including Lanston&#41; do not properly
    address. But I don&#39;t think you have the analytical mettle to be useful to
    me. <BR> <BR>&#62; Also we have already agreed about the ink spread matter. Remember.
    <BR> <BR>I don&#39;t remember any such thing, but I&#39;m glad to hear that you&#39;ve
    now changed your mind 180 degrees. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-07-08 18:41:35'
- author:
    name: serafino
  body: Gerald <BR> <BR>I am not sure what patterns we have, mainly those I planned
    to digitize, also Centaur I believe. The Californian went to BC. I was in the
    middle of working on that face. The others sit on the east coast of Canada. I
    will try to get an inventory of them. I would need access for proofing but that
    usually comes with the territory for a limited time. <BR> <BR>Otherwise I could
    proof them first. <BR> <BR>When I get a chance I will try to look through some  of
    the Gutenberg material and then I can send you to the correct lines. Certainly,
    at least one book was not &#34;printed&#34; from hand set type. <BR> <BR>At least
    from what I can make of it. I am always suspicious about using words like never,
    impossible, so lets replace certainly with unlikely. Maybe certainly unlikely.
    <BR> <BR>So perhaps we could work together a little and make it impossible. That
    has a better ring to it. We can probably make it impossible. Certainly I believe
    that is possible. <BR> <BR>Gerald Giampa <BR>P.S. Don&#39;t bother reading those
    last few lines. I will look for the material and see what you think. How about
    that?          <BR>                        <BR> <BR>
  created: '2003-07-08 18:41:49'
- author:
    name: serafino
  body: Hrant, <BR> <BR>I knew a fireman / arsonist once, he reminded me of you. You
    seem to want to put the ink on just so you can take the ink off? <BR> <BR>What&#39;s
    your point? <BR> <BR> <BR>Gerald Giampa <BR> <BR>
  created: '2003-07-08 19:02:31'
- author:
    name: serafino
  body: 'Hrant, <BR> <BR>As far as high-jacking this thread goes I think you should
    read through these posts. Your interest in Caslon is well established. <BR> <BR>So
    if the other thread is where you think it belongs, Caslon also??? Go write some
    material and see who&#39;s interested. Optical scaling, yes I am interested. Chewing
    cud, I am not. <BR> <BR>Gerald Giampa '
  created: '2003-07-08 19:21:56'
- author:
    name: jhowes
  body: 'I&#39;ve never understood why, economic considerations apart, the digital
    font makers have generally chosen to revive earlier adaptations rather than going
    back to source. Lanston&#39;s so-called authentic Caslon, for instance, is an
    authentic rendering &#42;not&#42; of the types cut by William Caslon I and his
    son, but of Lanston Monotype&#39;s twentieth-century rendering -- of types probably
    supplied not by Caslon &amp; Co, but by an American foundry which had, in the
    mid-nineteenth century, acquired strikes of variable authenticity to the original
    designs. What&#39;s authentic about that? My recollection of the Caslon Challenge,
    incidentally, is that it involved comparison between &#40;1&#41; Lanston&#39;s
    digital cutting, and &#40;2&#41; Lanston&#39;s original cutting. It wasn&#39;t
    a comparison of Lanston&#39;s digital, and Caslon&#39;s original - perhaps Gerald
    Giampa could clarify? <BR> <BR>Why revive a twentieth-century interpretation,
    influenced by the aesthetic of the 1920s, rather than go back to the original
    and start over? Going back to the original you can either create an interpretation
    for our own time &#40;as Twombly has done, using &#41; or else attempt a facsimile
    &#40;as in my own Founder&#39;s Caslon. I don&#39;t, for instance, see that it&#39;s
    really legitimate to use a digital version of Centaur, when there&#39;s an opportunity
    to go back to Bruce Rogers&#39; source material, and improve on his rendering.
    If we need type revivals &#40;I&#39;m not saying that we do&#41; let&#39;s revive
    types that were true to their own time. <BR> <BR>Adobe brought out a small publication
    in 1990, titled _Adobe Caslon_ &#40;California, Adobe Systems Incorporated, 1990&#41;,
    in which it&#39;s clear that Adobe Caslon, designed by Carol Twombly for use in
    sizes ranging from 6 to 14pt, was based on photographic enlargements of the 9,
    10, 11, 12 and 14 pt designs shown in Jones 1924. Twombly `found that the proportions
    of x-height to capital height and ascender and descender length varied only slightly
    from size to size within this text range. She made careful sketches of every letter
    at each size, and after this thorough examination of the types, made rough drawings
    for one master design that incorporated common elements from the five original
    text sizes. The letterforms were drawn at a weight between the extremes of the
    sharp metal impressions observed under the microscope, and the overweight, amorphous
    shapes of the enlarged letters.&#39; The Caslon Ornaments were adapted for Adobe
    by Wesley Tanner. <BR> <BR>The st ligature, which someone&#39;s asked about, was
    never offered by the Caslon foundry. In the eighteenth century, until at least
    the 1780s, use of the long s was all but mandatory in most English printing &#40;there
    are a few interesting exceptions&#41;, which meant that the ligature offered by
    Caslon was longs-t. I&#39;m not sure who first added one to a version of Caslon,
    however: I&#39;ve a vague memory of seeing something in a book printed by Field
    and Tuer in the 1880s, but a more likely culprit would be ATF, who added some
    luxuriantly nasty swash characters to their fonts of Caslon - some of which were
    taken over by Lanston, Adobe, et al. I&#39;m rather ashamed of the fact that I
    included short st in my Founder&#39;s Caslon, though it does come with a health
    warning in the documentation. <BR> <BR>I&#39;m writing, I should say, without
    access to most of the books I&#39;d usually refer to, and realise that I may have
    confused details of the American Caslons. <BR> <BR>Justin Howes'
  created: '2003-07-10 20:24:14'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: Justin, <BR> <BR>But how do you explain why yours is so terrible? I have a
    copy of Caslon 337 and The Fount, The Caslon Challenge, and a copy of your fonts.
  created: '2003-07-11 10:27:17'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: Oh, for heaven&#39;s sake!  <BR>Justin&#39;s fonts are extremely good. <BR>
    <BR>...and I&#39;ll even put my name on this.
  created: '2003-07-11 11:51:47'
- author:
    name: jhowes
  body: 'Thanks John! '
  created: '2003-07-12 15:10:58'
- author:
    name: serafino
  body: I second that John, <BR> <BR>I am happy the person likes our Caslon 337. However
    I suggest the writer take another look at Justin&#39;s work. He seems to have
    missed the importance of it. <BR> <BR>What Justin has done is most remarkable.
    A tribute to Caslon. I, for one, know how much work that project would have been.
    <BR> <BR>And two rights don&#39;t make a wrong. <BR> <BR>Unfortunately I do not
    have time to add anything more. My situation at present does not allow that.  <BR>
    <BR>Gerald Giampa
  created: '2003-07-12 16:24:02'
- author:
    name: jhowes
  body: 'What I should have said in my first posting is that each of these versions
    of Caslon - my own, Gerald&#39;s, Adobe&#39;s - can have a place in the designer&#39;s
    toolkit. I&#39;ve frequently suggested people take a look at 337, or at Big Caslon,
    all depending on what they want to do. Founder&#39;s Caslon&#39;s fine for those
    who have a need for a real eighteenth-century type, but wouldn&#39;t be the right
    choice for office documents. '
  created: '2003-07-13 09:31:05'
- author:
    name: serafino
  body: Justin, <BR> <BR>I am not used to been so agreeable. In fact I would like
    to be able to offer your Caslon along with our own. <BR> <BR>Gerald Giampa
  created: '2003-07-13 10:12:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: I just noticed Bitstream&#39;s Caslon Old Face at MyFonts.com  <BR> <BR>It
    does &#39;look like Caslon&#39;, though it seems to lack small caps, a bold version
    etc. <BR> <BR>What do you experts on Caslon think of it?
  created: '2003-07-14 15:40:09'
- author:
    name: jhowes
  body: It&#39;s quite OK for a Caslon to lack bold - Caslon didn&#39;t have one,
    but instead printers used &#39;black letter&#39;. &#62;From what I remember of
    it, Bitstream Caslon is one of the worst around. The descenders have been absurdly
    shortened, and the lining figures are another horror. Avoid it! Caslon _needs_
    small caps, non-lining figures, ligatures, and sensitive handling. It&#39;s not
    worth spending time, as a typographer, with substandard fonts.
  created: '2003-07-14 21:12:14'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: '...'
  created: '2012-07-20 02:32:41'
date: '2003-07-03 21:35:43'
title: Carol Twombly Adobe Caslon

---
