---
author:
  name: Bald Condensed
  picture: 110564
body: "<a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/dootype/ninfa/\">This</a> is what <a
  href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/monotype/rotis_serif_and_semiserif_pro_vp/\">Rotis
  Semi Serif</a> would've looked like if it had been drawn by <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/designer/gudrun_zapf_von_hesse/\">Gudrun
  Zapf von Hesse</a>. ;^)\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/dootype/ninfa/"
comments:
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: As I see it, anything mixing the genetic code with Rotis is a given stillborn.
    In all honesty Ninfa is better than that.
  created: '2008-11-21 09:45:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Rotis is unfairly criticized. Although there are many things about it I would
    change, it nonetheless contains more of value than 95% of fonts out there. Most
    of all, its <em>intent</em> puts almost all the current Pretty font design to
    shame. I recommend reading Aicher's monumental book.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-21 17:05:03'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: The book's good though.
  created: '2008-11-21 18:05:49'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>I recommend reading Aicher\u2019s monumental book.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat's
    the title? (Wikipedia lists \"The Kitchen is for Cooking\" (1982); \"Walking in
    the Desert\" (1982); \"Critique of the Automobile\" (1984); and \"Inside the War\"
    (1985))."
  created: '2008-11-21 18:56:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "\"Typographie\", 1988 (and 2005 apparently).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-21 19:08:51'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Found a copy, thanks for the tipoff!
  created: '2008-11-21 19:56:27'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Aicher's book <a href-\"http://www.amazon.com/Typographie-Otl-Aicher/dp/3874396835/ref=sr_1_2?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1227371550&sr=1-2\"
    tagert=\"new\">Typographie</a> is very good, but it's less about designing typefaces
    than his philosophical dialogues about communication and the influence of contemporary
    culture and environment on our ability to comprehend visual language. I haven't
    seen the reprints so I can't compare it to the original edition printed by <a
    href=\"http://www.wiedler.ch/felix/books/story/106\" target=\"new\">Druckhaus
    Maack</a> in Germany.\r\n\r\n[[Otl Aicher]] was by no means a type designer and
    was best known for his graphic design, corporate brands and informational systems.
    As Hrant stated, Rotis was more about Aicher's intent. If he had collaborated
    more with Adrian Frutiger there may have been a more successful attempt with Rotis.\r\n\r\nPersonally
    I truly enjoyed my  time working with Herr Aicher in bringing Rotis to the marketplace,
    though we had to heavily rework his font data to meet Agfa's quality standards.
    Yes, Rotis is not among my favorite typefaces, but neither will I bash it."
  created: '2008-11-22 16:41:46'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "The reprint is of surprisingly substandard quality. The pages are reproduced,
    not reset. Some of the type was blurry in some of the copies I saw. I recommend
    trying to track down a used copy of the first edition, if you can.\r\n\r\nThere
    are a number of things I do not understand about the book, but the chief among
    them is this: Aicher was not a fan of uppercase letters, as he deemed them to
    authoritarian. The book's text is in German and English; the columns sit side
    by side on the page. The German text does not use any capital letters\u2014quite
    a statement in German, where capitals play an important role. However, the English
    translations DOES uses upper and lowercase letters. This I cannot understand.
    Are English-speaking people not as equally oppressed by the (albeit less frequent)
    use of capital letters? Did he just overlook this aspect of the book's production?
    I do not know."
  created: '2008-11-22 16:51:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Indeed, what's so impressive and deserving of respect is\r\nthat Rotis was
    basically his first typeface. Let's all look\r\nback at our own first efforts
    to grasp the implications...\r\n\r\nWhether you look at it in terms of commercial
    success\r\nor culture, Rotis is something to be studied seriously.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-22 16:53:13'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>Rotis is something to be studied seriously</em>\r\n\r\nMost seriously,
    perhaps, one can ask 'Why doesn't this type design really work?' Of course, this
    is a question one can ask of many typefaces, but few so prominent as Rotis. It
    provides a good case study in the problems of producing letter shapes that are,
    individually, interesting, but which don't work together as a typeface."
  created: '2008-11-22 19:48:16'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Dan -- <cite>The reprint is of surprisingly substandard quality.</cite>\r\n\r\nIf
    it is the one I remember having seen, it's indeed an outright dilettantish reprint.
    They must have scanned entire pages in grey, rather than scanning the text part
    in black/white ..."
  created: '2008-11-22 21:27:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, if that's a good question (and it probably is) it leads to the converse:
    why does such-and-such font have -what is considered- harmony in all its glyphs?
    Is it because the designer truly understood readability, or is it because the
    designer understood how to mimic fonts that people simply don't complain about?
    In virtually every single case, it's sadly the latter. In fact in most cases the
    designer doesn't even give a hoot about understanding readability; he is content
    to celebrate and imitate. It makes him feel warm, and helps pay the bills. At
    least Aicher was not a performing monkey, a cultural hanger-on.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-23 00:17:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I think you are talking about orthogonal topics here, because I don't believe
    that Aicher had a clue about readability or even much of a concern about it.\r\n\r\nHow
    a set of necessarily differentiated signs is made to create a unified visual whole
    is indeed an interesting question. [It is the theme of a lecture I am preparing;
    details later.] In those terms, the Rotis-inspired lettering in the floor of the
    great court at the British Museum is interesting, because a strategy (flaring
    the stems) has been employed to create greater visual unity between the disparate
    letter shapes. It almost works."
  created: '2008-11-23 06:38:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Have you read Aicher's book?\r\nWe can argue whether he understood readability
    well (there is in fact reason to believe he didn't) but his <em>dedication</em>
    to improving readability while tossing out stagnant conventions is quite apparent,
    and to me highly commendable. The same cannot be said of the great majority of
    type designers, who are either too busy being artistes or too afraid to think.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-23 07:09:34'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "I consider Rotis a landmark typeface, and I was surprised when years ago
    I learned it was criticized for some reasons. They seem irrelevant to me. Besides
    the convinction about the uppercase Dan mentioned adds to the puzzle\u2026"
  created: '2008-11-23 09:30:22'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "@Norbert: <em>If he had collaborated more with Adrian Frutiger there may
    have been a more successful attempt with Rotis.</em>\r\n\r\nAs if Rotis is not
    already successful as it is? Maybe you mean Rotis would have been more conventional,
    conformist and to your liking, more like other type designs? Maybe you mean something
    else. Don't let me put words into your mouth.\r\n\r\n@John: <em>Most seriously,
    perhaps, one can ask \u2019Why doesn\u2019t this type design really work?\u2019
    Of course, this is a question one can ask of many typefaces, but few so prominent
    as Rotis. It provides a good case study in the problems of producing letter shapes
    that are, individually, interesting, but which don\u2019t work together as a typeface.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    think Rotis \"works\" just fine. Its disparate forms work together as a typeface
    if you let go of some of your preconceptions about what makes a \"good\" type
    design.\r\n\r\n==============================================\r\n\r\nThe widespread
    assumption that disparate letterforms are a bad thing or somehow undesirable in
    a type design may be due to the general flaw in Western thinking which tends to
    regard non-conformity and inconsistency, no matter how small, as inherently \"bad\"
    and undesirable.\r\n\r\nRotis' <strong>c</strong> and <strong>e</strong> are depart
    structurally from the face's <strong>o</strong>. Ho boye, what a liberty! How
    terrible, they say, those Rotis haters. I don't know much about Rotis' creation
    or history, or the man who designed it, but I think the differentiated <strong>c</strong>
    and <strong>e</strong> are the main features of Rotis that cause its detractors
    to dislike it so readily.\r\n\r\nYou see the problem? Rotis and its <strong>c</strong>
    and <strong>e</strong> are not the problem. One-eye black & white Western thinking
    is the problem. It's a typeface, not a flipping army you know. Don't take it personally,
    it's aimed at everybody who thinks Rotis doesn't work.\r\n\r\nThere is nothing
    fundamentally wrong with the Rotis design. Its differentiated <strong>c</strong>
    and <strong>e</strong>, once assimilated by the human mind, should result in enhanced
    readability. Nothing could make more sense to a guy like me who thrives on non-conformity.\r\n\r\n@Hrant:
    <em>. . . his dedication to improving readability while tossing out stagnant conventions
    is quite apparent, and to me highly commendable. The same cannot be said of the
    great majority of type designers, who are either too busy being artistes or too
    afraid to think.</em>\r\n\r\nPrecisely. Convention is good for the sake of standards
    and having a mainstream, for better or worse. At the same time convention, or
    more accurately&#8212;conformity&#8212;is the enemy of typeface design.\r\n\r\nIn
    other words, Jenson and Griffo's roman type designs are very pretty because they
    follow the renaissance ideal of harmony in art & design. But how much grasp did
    those two men possess of readability theory? I think we can safely assume both
    Jenson and Griffo had a solid grasp of the need for a typeface to be readable
    since they were inventing Western Latin neo-classical type design & typography
    at a time when the so-named gothic style, complete with all its strengths and
    foibles, remained very strong, and neo-classicisim was relatively new.\r\n\r\nStylistic
    uniformity (artiste-ry) is one thing, and structural sophistication is something
    else. \r\n\r\nWe can ask the question then: is \"visual unity\" or a \"unified
    visual whole\" the be-all and end-all of typeface design, or should this kind
    of stylistic preoccupation be demoted, and should it be informed by the structural
    principles that make blackletter forms diverse?\r\n\r\nCan Western type designers
    ever relinquish their preoccupation with stylistic unity? Fear of thinking holds
    us back.\r\n\r\nI am not afraid to think. I am not afraid to die either. My only
    fear is coming to the end of the second life before my work is complete. \r\n\r\nIf
    it doesn't kill you, it's good for you.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-11-23 12:23:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well said.\r\n\r\nAnd there is something else, which is going unsaid: many
    people\r\noppose Rotis essentially because it violates the pen. They strike it\r\ndown
    not because they have any evidence about divergence (or\r\nanything else really)
    but because it ignores their pet religion.\r\nThey can't stand to look at it,
    so they cry: Heresy! They would\r\npaint -and I do mean paint- a scarlet \"A\"
    on its proud chest.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-23 17:07:55'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Funny I did not even think about single forms in Rotis before this talk.
    I always looked at it and enjoyed how it's accomplished. Maybe it is a little
    stiff, or \"cold\" for my taste, but this goes most for the Sans version. The
    SemiSans and the Serif are great, and lively.\r\nCould you tell me precisely when
    the face was designed?\r\n\r\n<cite> The widespread assumption that disparate
    letterforms are a bad thing or somehow undesirable in a type design may be due
    to the general flaw in Western thinking which tends to regard non-conformity and
    inconsistency, no matter how small, as inherently \u201Cbad\u201D and undesirable.
    </cite>\r\n\r\nI would say more \"non-conformity\". \"Inconsistency\" does not
    make a good element, unless it's provisional. Besides, I have the impression a
    part of Eastern thinking may have opposite flaws."
  created: '2008-11-23 17:18:54'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "<cite> [\u2026] oppose Rotis essentially because it violates the pen. </cite>\r\nWhile
    it just moves the pen to a different angle.\r\nWonder what they would say of my
    approach\u2026 :=P"
  created: '2008-11-23 17:20:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Regarding c and e: these are a problem, more so in the semi serif and sans
    faces.\r\nIt's too easy to mistake c for e.\r\nA combination of similar counter
    shape, and the suggestion of a horizontal bar which is made by the flat bottom
    of the terminal, create a \"notan\" that is similar for the two letters.\r\n\r\nNow
    you may ask, why isn't this a problem in, say, Helvetica? The answer is that the
    counters of the two letters are quite different sizes in Helvetica. \r\n\r\nThe
    design of the Rotis \"c\" defines a \"broken\" counter, with a semi-circular top
    part that is similar to the enclosed counter in \"e\", and an open bottom half;
    whereas in Helvetica, the counter of \"c\" is one big oval, quite distinct from
    the two semicircular counters in \"e\"\r\n\r\nSurely this is a design flaw in
    a text face?\r\nAnd as this is a key characteristic of the face, isn't it fundamentally
    flawed?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ces_4385.png]"
  created: '2008-11-23 17:59:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I agree with your general direction, but one has to always factor in real
    text in discussions of readability. How many word-pairs are there where one has
    a \"c\" and the other an \"e\" in a given spot? Almost zero. Compare that to the
    much greater \"swappability\" between \"e\" and \"o\", and one would start thinking
    that Helvetica's \"e\" is too close to its \"o\", and it would be better if it
    diverged towards the \"c\" instead (promoting at least some stylistic consistency).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-23 18:06:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "James, I don't find divergent shapes per se a problem: what bothers me about
    Rotis is that the shapes pull in all sorts of different directions and are out
    of proportion to each other. The problem with the Rotis <strong>c</strong> and
    <strong>e</strong>, in particular, is not that they are 'wrong' because the don't
    follow the shape of other bowled letters, but that they are massively wider and
    more open than any of the other letters, so much so that they appear out-of-scale,
    and have a pronounced visual thrust toward the upper-left while other letters
    have either a vertical or slight rightward lean.\r\n\r\nThe <strong>c</strong>
    and <strong>e</strong> also draw attention to themselves because they are, in
    fact, the only interesting shapes in the design: if you look at the Rotis types
    without the  <strong>c</strong> and <strong>e</strong> present, you see that they
    are, in fact, rather dull and <em>very conservative</em> designs. Is introducing
    two eccentric but high-frequency shapes into an otherwise pedestrian typeface
    really a non-conformist or avant garde exercise, or is it a bit of typical graphic
    design sleight of hand, giving the appearance of greater novelty than is actually
    present? Compared to genuinely ground breaking work such as Evert Bloemsma's types,
    Rotis looks pretty thin in both conception and execution."
  created: '2008-11-23 20:14:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>How many word-pairs are there where one has a \u201Cc\u201D and the other
    an \u201Ce\u201D in a given spot?</em>\r\n\r\nTrue, but one should also consider
    that people might read words that aren't real, especially if they follow familiar
    lexical forms. For instance, \"graphie\" is not a word, but it looks and sounds
    like one; \"-ie\" is a reasonable word ending, and \"graffy\" does exist, as the
    ending of typography, for instance. "
  created: '2008-11-23 20:59:52'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Here are some off the top of my head\r\n\r\narc are\r\ncar ear\r\nscar sear\r\ncat
    eat\r\nscat seat\r\ncel eel\r\ncon eon\r\n\r\nNot <em>that</em> rare..."
  created: '2008-11-23 22:35:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I think that John Hudson''s latest post nailed it: the problem isn''t just
    that the c and e look odd, but that they look odd in the company of the other
    letters.  That is really not good. You can do almost anything with a letter, but
    it has to work with the other letters in the design. That''s probably as near
    to a ''law'' as you get in type design. '
  created: '2008-11-23 22:49:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Discussions of \"c\" versus \"e\" versus \"o\" are a side-show.\r\nRotis
    is relevant not really as a collection of letters, but\r\nas a design philosophy
    (or rather, the beginnings of\r\none). When John feels compelled to compare it
    against\r\nthe work of Bloemsma, that's already saying a lot.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-23 23:30:43'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I wasn't comparing, I was contrasting: Bloemsma's work is serious, thorough
    and challenging; Rotis is half-baked, lazy and superficial. Was I compelled to
    make such a contrast? More importantly, was I compelled <em>by Rotis?</em> --
    no, I was responding to James' comments, which I thought gave Rotis far more credit
    than it is due. Seriously, take out those two dramatic lowercase letters that
    don't fit with the others, and what is left? Some very arbitrarily proportioned
    but conservative shapes. Rotis is a bit like listening to a very tentative musical
    composition in which a couple of 'daring' dischordant harmonies are thrown in
    to make it seem avant garde.\r\n\r\nI doubt if I have anything more to add to
    this thread, and I don't enjoy criticising typefaces, especially when the designer
    isn't alive to respond."
  created: '2008-11-24 06:33:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> superficial\r\n\r\nIf you can find the time, do read the book.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-24 06:36:54'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "I just pulled the ('88 edition, <em>obviously</em>) book from out of the
    office library \u2013 it's excellent. Both in research and writing. \r\nI've just
    read van Krimpens <em>On Designing and Devising Type</em>, and <em>man</em>, the
    guy cannot finish a sentence. It just goes on and on and... So it's refreshing
    to read Aichers prose. Well illustrated and a nice layout. But the only thing
    that disturbs the discriminating eye is, well, the type. I'm sorry. \r\n"
  created: '2008-11-24 09:21:00'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "I think John's observations are limited by what he sees as the only functional
    and artistic process to design an alphabet. Evert Bloemsma and Otl Aicher (besides
    living in entirely different places and times) worked with letters in different
    means. It's clear Bloemsma strived to refresh and perfection arrangements of forms,
    while Otl was working on a visual level with cultural and ideologic elements.
    Since the latter are not planned in John's approach (but they are present, since
    they are unavoidable), he sees Rotis only on a functional/formal level, while
    the life of a typeface can by no means be measured by that alone.\r\nI don't know
    what Bloemsma could have designed, if he witnessed nazism (Aicher was 17 when
    he got involved in the White Rose movement) and lived in Germany during World
    War Two.\r\n\r\nNick's observations about the [c] and [e] are important, but I
    never noticed them, since I was always fascinated by Rotis as a whole. It shows
    it sometimes doesn't work so well, but I don't have to set books with it, maybe
    catalogues or some magazine."
  created: '2008-11-24 14:17:25'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "OK, I think you should forget Bloemsma, his oeuvre isn't part of John's point
    anyway, far as I understand it.\r\nWhatever engagement Aicher had against the
    Nazis has absolutely no value in determining if Rotis is good or bad (it's bad,
    by the way).\r\nIf you want to discover genius at work, I suggest You rather take
    a look at Aichers [[http://www.1972municholympics.co.uk/|visual identity work]]
    for the 1972 Olympics in Munich. It's superb graphic design."
  created: '2008-11-24 15:04:51'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "@Fredo: I did not speak of \"engagement\", I was talking about historical
    context.\r\nI consider a work by that angle as well, it makes no sense to consider
    just \"functionality\" if you forget all the rest\u2026\r\n\r\nI still have not
    found a convincing argument about Rotis being \"badly designed\", as I look at
    it I still think it's very good, (and innovative), until someone shows me some
    other author did a similar thing a years before Aicher."
  created: '2008-11-29 15:01:17'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Since the latter are not planned in John\u2019s approach (but they are
    present, since they are unavoidable), he sees Rotis only on a functional/formal
    level, while the life of a typeface can by no means be measured by that alone.</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    life of a typeface, no, but then lots of not very good typefaces have been very
    popular indeed, including typefaces that functionally are very much worse than
    Rotis. The life of a typeface -- how it is used, the place it comes to have in
    design or cultural history -- is often a reflection of 'cultural and ideologic
    elements' that are external to the design. The life of Helvetica is an obvious
    example.\r\n\r\nThe historical context of a thing is often interesting, and can
    sometimes suggest criteria for judging that thing which might not otherwise have
    been considered. But when the thing in question is a typeface there are prerequisite
    criteria."
  created: '2008-11-30 04:29:46'
- author:
    name: rafaelneder
    picture: 110506
  body: 'What a funny title for a post. To me Ninfa was one of the best brazilians
    type designs of 2008. The cadence of the forms are beautiful, mainly in regular
    and bold. What you guys think about her? '
  created: '2008-12-03 00:39:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ninfa? Oh. Yeah.  :-)\r\n\r\nI like the hybrid effect: a lot of bulges and
    a lot of flats too. And I like seeing the trapping (although I wonder why the
    caps don't have any). The only thing that bothers me is the ungainly vertical
    serifs, like in the \"T\" (and the \"Z\"/\"z\") especially in the Bold. Oh, and
    I like the fact that it doesn't have italics.\r\n\r\nSome smaller crits:\r\nThe
    \"M\" is out of balance; the \"t\" is out of character; the florin should slant;
    the daggers are ugly; and the eszet could without the stub.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-03 02:08:23'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "I could never understand all this criticism towards Rotis. Though it's not
    my favorite typeface ever, there is not much I dislike in it. The unusual e and
    c give a nice twist of personality to a somewhat conservative design, thus making
    it very useful for specific works where seriousness and readability must go together
    well with uniqueness (bank identity, corporate communication). The sans serif
    - serif variations are among the best I've seen (and also among the very first
    ones). And saying that it's easy to read e instead of c is irrelevant - you really
    must have a serious problem to make this kind of mistake when reading a text.\r\n\r\nI'm
    glad I dedicated a chapter of my book to Rotis. It deserves it.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-12-03 14:08:00'
date: '2008-11-20 20:16:10'
node_type: forum
title: Otl Aicher's and Gudrun Zapf von Hesse's secret love child

---
