---
author:
  name: Erakez
body: "I have recently really started to doubt my own typographic eye after certain
  critique from a older designer about kerning. And since there are never hard and
  fast rules about kerning, i thought a discussion will put my mind at ease!\r\n\r\nI
  just came out of the new Bond movie. And it is not my intention to sound like a
  smart ass, but i would like to bring two examples to the table for discussion.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/london_final_web_6125.jpg]\r\n\r\nFirst,
  Did they kern the O so close to the D on purpose? Leaving a a large gap between
  the O and the N?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/siena_final_web_5895.jpg]\r\n\r\nSecond,
  In my opinion space between the E and N is too wide compared to N and A. And \"ITALY\"
  seems to be really loose compared to \"SIENA\".\r\n\r\nI just wanted to know what
  other people think, so I know if its the type, or if its just me...\r\n\r\np.s.
  Apart from squinting... do any of the more experienced typographers in this forum
  have techniques they use? In particular, I find myself 'lost in the type' after
  kerning it for a while, and i am unable identify the problematic spacing as easily.\r\n\r\nThanks!\r\n\r\nEric.\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: "Eric, your eye is right on. \r\n\r\nI agree with all the issues you've pointed
    out on these samples.\r\n\r\nI think kerning is overlooked by many designers,
    and sometimes it slips by me as well. But, I'm not surprised by this, I've seen
    poor kerning on book covers, logos, etc. I guess it's something that younger designers
    aren't trained to pay attention to. Maybe there's an assumption that the computer
    will do it correctly. \r\n\r\nAs far as working on kerning, it's easy to get lost
    after a while, since you can adjust between two letters, which affects another
    pair, and so on. I think the best thing is to work on it for a bit, then step
    away. In my earlier days I remember working with an art director who had me kern
    a headline for an entire afternoon. "
  created: '2008-11-21 16:14:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Maybe the older guy meant that those are <em>supposed</em> to look wonkily
    spaced, in that context?\r\n\r\nBTW, better to call this letterspacing, as kerning
    is more useful to mean what a font designer does in a font, as opposed to what
    happens in an instance of a font being used.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-21 16:54:15'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I think I'd disagree on the E-N being too wide. If you look along the top
    of the line of type, the space between the E-N-A is about as good a compromise
    as you can get. In this particular case, one could argue that the eye isn't going
    to look along the upper half of the letterforms on the first line because of the
    positioning of the second line, but my eye, anyway, does fall there.\r\n\r\nAs
    you say, so much is subjective. Many times all one can do is to go with a first
    impression, or as Chris suggests, walk away & take a fresh look."
  created: '2008-11-21 16:54:36'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "In the example of the E and A, a problem here is that the 'falling over'
    italic A of Caslon (and other faces?) often works very nicely with lower case,
    but is generally problematic in all caps. You end up having to do compromises,
    as Charles writes--but they never really work as well as you would hope.  \r\n\r\nIn
    my new Caslon revival (soon, soon!) there is an alternative italic A that works
    better with all caps, and automatically substitutes when choosing open type \"all
    caps\". \r\n\r\nThis is illustrative of a general point that glyphs need to be
    designed to space well; it doesn't just happen. \r\n\r\nAnd yes, my experience
    is also that going away, and coming back later for a fresh look helps. \r\n"
  created: '2008-11-21 17:15:12'
- author:
    name: innovati
    picture: 114494
  body: "I'm obviously young, but when I hear letterspacing, I think of the equidistant
    value of space between the letters.\r\n\r\nWhen I hear kerning, I think of the
    individual space between two specific letters.\r\n\r\nFor me to adjust letterspacing,
    would make all the letters closer or farther apart at once, but kerning is the
    manual manipulation of the space between 2 letters, while leaving the other untouched.\r\n\r\nAm
    I wrong?  These definitions seem to be in line with what I read, and they certainly
    aren't interchangeable in my eyes, they represent two very different concepts..."
  created: '2008-11-21 17:15:19'
- author:
    name: brett jordan
    picture: 112129
  body: "sloppy kerning in films... it would appear to be rampant at the moment\r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/x1brett/3047882002/\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-21 17:16:25'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: Also, people tend not to baseline shift hyphens and parentheses.
  created: '2008-11-21 17:33:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> For me to adjust letterspacing, would make all\r\n> the letters closer
    or farther apart at once\r\n\r\nI call that \"tracking\".\r\n\r\nIf you use \"kerning\"
    to mean -what I'm calling-\r\nletterspacing, then what do you call my kerning?
    \ :-)\r\n\r\nBut it's not really a matter of wrong/right, just terminological
    convention.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-21 17:35:21'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I think it's funny they chose Caslon to represent Italy. Oh, I get it! It's
    <em>italic!</em> :-/
  created: '2008-11-21 18:04:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I don't think the terminology for spacing is totally fixed. There are different
    things you can do in different applications to adjust the space between letters.
    In FontLab you can set the side bearings--their distance from the extreme left
    and right of the black. You can also specify kerning: the further adjustment of
    specific pairs. In InDesign you can globally increase or decrease space between
    letters--tracking. And you can adjust spacing between specific letters--kerning.
    As I understand it, in Quark Express, you can also globally adjust pairs, such
    as AV. \r\n\r\nIn adjusting the spacing of a title people usually say 'kerning'
    but whichever way you slice it it's a species of spacing.   "
  created: '2008-11-21 18:35:53'
- author:
    name: BruceS63
    picture: 111542
  body: "What makes kerning good is that it is <em>visually consistent</em>, be it
    tight, wide, or in between. It should also be <em>appropriate to the application</em>--kerning
    for an outdoor board must be wider than for a brochure you're holding two feet
    from you face.\r\n\r\nRon Arnholm (studied under Rand at Yale), designer of Legacy
    and Legacy Sans was my typography teacher at the University of Georgia. Not only
    did he have us squint, but he had us look at the type upside, backward, and upside
    down and backward. That practice has served me well."
  created: '2008-11-21 19:33:31'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "\"Kerning\" is the manual adjustment of space between two individual letters.
    The overall spacing of a word or title or whatever is, well, the overall \"spacing.\"
    \r\n\r\nSo, for instance, in the comment Bruce just made (and not to pick on Bruce
    in particular, just by way of example), I would say, \"<em>spacing</em> for an
    outdoor board must be wider than for a brochure you're holding two feet from your
    face.\"\r\n\r\nSo, what is good kerning? Good kerning is that kerning which makes
    spacing visually consistent (as Bruce also said, basically). Wat is \"visually
    consistent\"? Ahh, well now, there you get into the realm of some subjectivity.\r\n\r\nIf
    a typeface is spaced well, and depending upon the combination of letters under
    examination, a title setting might not need any \"kerning\" at all. If the spacing
    of the face is overall consistent and even, but too loose or too tight for the
    particular application, then that setting might need overall \"tracking\" or \"letterspacing,\"
    positive or negative (i.e., adding or subtracting, overall) but no individual
    futzing (i.e., \"kerning\").\r\n\r\n-- K."
  created: '2008-11-21 22:46:04'
- author:
    name: Erakez
  body: "Thanks all for your helpful posts. Some good tips in there too!\r\n\r\nBruce
    and Kent makes a good point, maybe the designers didn't expect such scrutiny over
    their letterspacing within the 5 seconds that they were on screen.\r\n\r\nLittle
    do they know young, confused and kerned-out designers come watch movies too..."
  created: '2008-11-22 00:18:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "T-shirt: \"I'M ALL KERNED OUT\"\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-22 00:37:08'
- author:
    name: Clint-Anglin
    picture: 115930
  body: "Kerning/letter-spacing is something that conscientious typographers/designers
    will always struggle over, because there are multiple approaches that can be taken.\r\n\r\nWith
    typefaces that have relatively heavy thin-strokes, it generally works well to
    try to visually balance the space on each side of the characters and to try to
    have the inter-character space throughout the text to appear more-or-less even.\r\n\r\nOn
    the other hand, when fonts have very light thin-strokes (as in the Sienna Italy
    sample above), it becomes necessary to also take into account the visual space
    WITHIN the characters, as well as the space on either side of them.\r\n\r\nTo
    further complicate things, you can choose to focus primarily on the negative space
    around the characters or you can draw an imaginary line down the center of each
    character and try to visually balance the space on each side of the character
    (sometimes called \"optical letter-spacing\"). Strange to say, both approaches
    produce text that appears even spaced, but with difference spacing -- and those
    who prefer one approach will generally not care for the results of the other approach.\r\n\r\nThe
    result of all this is that even when you try to carefully kern your type, you
    can be certain of never satisfying everyone -- but that doesn't mean that we shouldn't
    make every effort to do so."
  created: '2008-11-22 03:29:46'
- author:
    name: Clint-Anglin
    picture: 115930
  body: "PLEASE IGNORE MY PREVIOUS POST, WHICH DOESN'T MAKE MUCH SENSE UNLESS CLARIFIED
    WITH SOME ADDITIONAL THOUGHTS THAT I HAD IN MY MIND, BUT FAILED TO SPELL OUT IN
    THE TEXT. HERE IS A REVISED (A SLIGHTLY EXPLADED VERSION):\r\n\r\nKerning/letter-spacing
    is something that conscientious typographers & designers, as well as type designers
    & typesetting system programmers will always struggle over, because there are
    various approaches that can be taken.\r\n\r\nWhen a typographer/designer is working
    with a line or two of display copy and is using typefaces that have relatively
    heavy thin-strokes, it generally works well to try to visually balance the space
    on each side of the characters and to try to have the inter-character space throughout
    the text to appear more-or-less even.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, when fonts have
    very light thin-strokes (as in the Sienna Italy sample above), it becomes necessary
    to also take into account the visual space WITHIN the characters, as well as the
    space on either side of them.\r\n\r\nWhat to do with the vast array of fonts that
    fall in the middle, is where the art of kerning, and the individual taste of the
    typographers/designer comes in.\r\n\r\nSomewhat congruently, when a type designer
    is setting up the overall kerning for a font, or a typesetting system programmer
    is devising the kerning algorithm that will output large blocks of text, he or
    she can choose either to focus primarily on the negative space around the characters
    or to draw an imaginary line down the center of each character and try to visually
    balance the space on each side of the character (sometimes called \u201Coptical
    letter-spacing\u201D). Both approaches produce text that appears fairly evenly
    spaced, even though the resulting spacing is somewhat different \u2014 and those
    who prefer one approach will generally not care for the results of the other.\r\n\r\nThe
    end result of all this is that even when you try to carefully kern your type,
    you can be never be certain of satisfying everyone \u2014 but that doesn\u2019t
    mean that we shouldn\u2019t make every effort to do so.\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-22 08:08:57'
- author:
    name: gerald
  body: "i don't understand why hrant is constantly trying to tell everyone to call
    this letterspacing.\r\n\r\neverywhere i have ever heard or read, kerning is the
    spacing between specific individual letters and tracking is the general spacing
    between multiple letters\r\n\r\nno disrespect meant to hrant, who is obviously
    a way better typographer than i am; i have just never heard letter-spacing defined
    like this before. i would maybe interchange letter-spacing with my definition
    of tracking (ie a line of text, with multiple words), but not kerning"
  created: '2008-11-22 23:04:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You should have heard the discussions\r\nabout the meaning of \"readability\"!
    \ :-)\r\n\r\nI just think my scheme is more sensical, more versatile.\r\nBasically
    because -like I said- if you use \"kerning\" to\r\nmean the spacing between glyphs
    that a typographer does\r\nin a setting, what do you call the activity that a
    type\r\ndesigner does in a font? Since \"tracking\" is the standard\r\nterm in
    apps to mean the overall tightness/looseness of a\r\nsetting, we have \"letterspacing\"
    in between the other two\r\nterms, and it might as well fill that in-between role,
    no?\r\n\r\nOr I guess we could overload the term \"kerning\", relying on\r\ncontext.
    But then wouldn't \"tracking\" become redundant?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-23 00:26:30'
- author:
    name: gerald
  body: "<cite> if you use \u201Ckerning\u201D to\r\nmean the spacing between glyphs
    that a typographer does\r\nin a setting, what do you call the activity that a
    type\r\ndesigner does in a font?</cite>\r\n\r\ni call that kerning as well. manually
    adjusting the kerning is a setting is merely \"tweaking\" the original as far
    as i'm concerned"
  created: '2008-11-23 01:13:07'
- author:
    name: gerald
  body: i'm not sure who you're directing that too, mark, but i agree with you 100%
    (if you <cite>were</cite> directing that at me, i did not word my thoughts very
    clearly at all)
  created: '2008-11-23 05:44:17'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Your definition of kerning is too broad and at odds with its traditional
    meaning. In developing fonts, kerning is used to correct pairs of characters for
    which the standard spacing is not sufficient. These pairs are <em>exceptions</em>
    to the normal spacing of a font. \r\n\r\nCheck out these screen snaps from Adobe
    Illustrator:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tracking_3802.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/kerning_6352.jpg]\r\n\r\nThe
    first image shows that this text is <em>tracked</em> 60 units and that the kerning
    is set to \"auto\", meaning that the font's built-in kerning pairs will be used.
    The second image shows that the \"T\" and \"e\" are kerned -71 units. In other
    words, this text has both tracking and kerning applied. If you call them both
    kerning, you'll go crazy trying to figure out what's going on.\r\n\r\nSpacing
    is simply the normal spacing of a font.\r\n\r\nKerning is an exception to normal
    spacing between two characters.\r\n\r\nTracking alters the spacing of a range
    of characters, separate from and in addition to any kerning between pairs in that
    range."
  created: '2008-11-23 05:45:35'
- author:
    name: innovati
    picture: 114494
  body: I love you Mark.
  created: '2008-11-23 06:29:40'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > if you use \u201Ckerning\u201D to mean the spacing between glyphs
    that a typographer does in a setting, what do you call the activity that a type
    designer does in a font?</cite>\r\n\r\nHrant, in my opinion, they are essentially
    the same thing. Both are kerning. Both activities, whether by type designer in
    the course of developing the font or by the typographer in the course of fine-tuning
    a particular setting, are \"kerning\" -- that is, they are creating pair-specific
    exceptions/overrides to the basic spacing of the glyphs.\r\n\r\nThe only significant
    difference is that one is done at a systemic level, the other is situational.\r\n\r\nWhen
    the type designer does it, the result is the set of kerning pairs built into the
    font. When the typographer does it, then you could call it \"manual kerning.\"\r\n\r\n--
    K."
  created: '2008-11-23 15:24:16'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "<cite>When the type designer does it, the result is the set of kerning pairs
    built into the font. When the typographer does it, then you could call it \u201Cmanual
    kerning.\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\nYou could also distinguish them as \"pre-consumer\"
    and \"post-consumer\" kerning. That's probably not a good generic label but it
    works as a concept."
  created: '2008-11-23 22:19:06'
- author:
    name: Ngoc Ngo
    picture: 115380
  body: "My two cents...I consider \"the activity that a type\r\ndesigner does in
    a font\" as Hrant has put it, as adjusting the sidebearings since this is performed
    by the type designer."
  created: '2008-11-25 01:30:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But we also do kerning after/during -what I call- \"spacing\",\r\nwhich is
    not just adjusting, but determining, sidebearings.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-25 01:51:49'
- author:
    name: imageWIS
    picture: 113308
  body: "Is the 'Siena Italy' picture from the new James Bond movie...? \r\n\r\nJon. "
  created: '2008-11-25 02:11:30'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> I just came out of the new Bond movie\r\n\r\nHow did you take the screenshots
    --  a digital camera? video? "
  created: '2008-11-25 03:00:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>But we also do kerning after/during -what I call- \u201Cspacing\u201D,
    which is not just adjusting, but determining, sidebearings.</em>\r\n\r\nSpacing,
    following the typical font model that we've inherited from previous technologies,
    is a two-stage process involving, first, the default spacing of individual glyphs
    for arbitrary glyph sequences (sidebearing setting) and, second, the spacing of
    pairs of letters for specific glyph sequences* (kerning).\r\n\r\n* OpenType extends
    this model by permitting contexts spacing that extend beyond the pair, but few
    non- 'complex script' fonts take advantage of this and, if I recall, the Adobe
    FDK and hence FontLab do not support this yet. I use it in Arabic fonts."
  created: '2008-11-25 03:54:50'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: "the <cite>location titles</cite> for Quantum of Solace were done by Tomato.\r\n\r\nyou
    can see them posted on <a href=\"http://www.tomato.co.uk/\">Tomato's site</a>\r\n\r\nbut
    I think these images came from the Tomato flickr."
  created: '2008-11-25 03:55:37'
- author:
    name: asen Tsvyatkov
  body: 'if those were done by tomato, i wouldn''t doubt for a minute that the decision
    is deliberate and aesthetically considered. '
  created: '2008-11-25 21:54:36'
- author:
    name: redpushbuttons
    picture: 115235
  body: "The more I read into this the more uncertain I get.\r\nWhy do I keep thinking
    there must be a science to this?\r\n\r\nI get fixated on numbers and have a compulsive
    urge to calculate stuff knowing this won't actually result in decent kerning.\r\n\r\nI
    seem to trust number more than my  eyes.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-02 23:34:30'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>Why do I keep thinking there must be a science to this?</cite>\r\n\r\nIt's
    been 45 years now, but you remind me of Rudolf Carnap. There was a branch of logical
    positivism that believed, essentially, all science could be reduced to physics.
    Psychology, for example, could be expressed by laws of physics if only we knew
    enough (statistical \"laws\" allowed).\r\n\r\nIt's the same sort of thing. Maybe
    kerning could be reduced to programmable numbers, if we only knew enough.\r\n\r\nMy
    thinking about Carnap & his followers was always, \"So What?\" Carpenters who
    are not physicists will still build houses. The theory is interesting, just not
    to those who have to do the work; the underpinnings of theory are not always useful."
  created: '2013-02-03 02:00:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Maybe kerning could be reduced to programmable numbers, if we only knew
    enough.</em>\r\n\r\nThe tricky aspect of automating kerning is determining how
    much knowledge is enough, given that the amount of knowledge required is likely
    to vary from design to design. A few years ago, at dinner with some of the clever
    folk from URW, I outlined how I thought an automatic kerning tool should work:
    it would accept iterative 'knowledge' from the designer, starting from a set of
    spacing for key glyphs that are determined by the designer not to need kerning.
    Then the program runs and presents the designer with a proposed set of kerning,
    at which point the designer can look at individual pairs and say 'No, this kind
    of combination should be more like this...'; then that adjustment becomes additional
    knowledge in the next pass of the program. In other words, the program doesn't
    seek to replace the informed eye of the designer, but to capture what the designer
    thinks is appropriate to the design and apply it across the glyph set. To my knowledge,
    no one has built this yet."
  created: '2013-02-03 02:48:08'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "John, the other part of programmatic kerning is it is between pairs, and
    the notion that one value between a pair is correct won't fly. As mentioned above
    -- probably by you -- programmatic contextual kerning is what's really needed.
    As one move from preventing disasters to aesthetics, ever more contextual kerning
    is needed...\r\n\r\nAnd the right value changes, depending on the size, esp. for
    fonts where there is only one master size.\r\n\r\nEtc.\r\n\r\nOr, just space the
    font widely. Seems to be a modern trend. That covers a multitude of small sins."
  created: '2013-02-03 03:38:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: You might just as well say there is an ideal way to play a classical music
    composition.
  created: '2013-02-03 04:40:25'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: Very well put, Nick.
  created: '2013-02-03 05:29:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ideal, shmideal - perfect, shmerfect. You do it because it helps.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-03 05:55:42'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The fact that there are conditions in which the desired spacing between a
    pair of letters might differ from that in other conditions is beside the point.
    That is already the case, and yet we still find it worthwhile to put kerning in
    fonts. What I described is what seems to me the best approach to automating aspects
    of what currently requires considerable man-hours while not obviating all the
    experience and knowledge that a good kerner brings to the job. I know, when I
    am kerning, that the decisions I make for some pairs have direct implications
    for other pairs; ergo, it makes sense that if a program can capture those implications
    and apply them, it can save a lot of time.\r\n\r\nOf course, all this still presumes
    the current, inherited sidebearing/kerning model."
  created: '2013-02-03 07:27:59'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...there is an ideal way to play a classical music composition.\"\r\n\r\nFor
    a given performance, per listener, there is. The issue besides taste with kerning,
    is that glyphs and spacing don't scale linearly. \"Modern\" font formats hypocritically
    offer typefaces as scaleable when all are not, and the situation, once thought
    to be temporary, is now permanent enough to regularly circulate thru here like
    bad air. \r\n\r\nThe first example above goes to my first point, I'm fine! said
    one viewer, with \"LONDON\". The other example, in the direction of my second
    point, is so hideously selected and composed, you'd want to be fixing the way
    these characters were selected, and then how each scaled, before fixing the kerning...
    I think.\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-04 02:32:38'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "No mention of Igino Marini's iKern?\r\nhttp://ikern.com/k1/"
  created: '2013-02-05 17:57:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Some people use iKern because they hate spacing (and don't want to spend
    money outsourcing it). But I'm surprised that there are some big, talented names
    among iKern users too. I guess it saves times when you have very large character
    sets, since the kerning grows exponentially. But personally I would never trust
    it for \"base spacing\" (sidebearings).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-05 18:05:57'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "It has been suggested that if you really hate someone, teach them to recognize
    bad kerning. That way, they'll be forever doomed to recognize examples of typographic
    ignorance and carelessness that mere mortals cannot see.... In no time at all,
    your friend/victim will be so well-versed in kerning that they may join the ranks
    of people who cannot order lunch from a poorly kerned menu.\r\n\r\nBut how do
    you ensnare an unsuspecting victim? One way would be to show them <strong>KernType,
    a kerning game. </strong>The site offers interactive kerning practice where you
    drag letters within words to distribute the given amount of space.\r\nhttp://www.creativepro.com/article/learn-kern-kern-type\r\n\r\n<strong>TEST
    HERE:</strong> http://type.method.ac/#"
  created: '2013-02-06 19:16:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: http://typophile.com/node/86189
  created: '2013-02-06 19:30:43'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@Nick Shinn:\r\n<cite>You might just as well say there is an ideal way to
    play a classical music composition.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhile this is an important point,
    and it is applicable to font design in general and kerning in particular too,
    I'm not so sure <em>how</em> applicable it is in the current situation.\r\n\r\nThere
    is too much bad kerning out there, and there are hardly any unique creative approaches
    to kerning. Type design and typography are arts as well as crafts, but they do
    lie on a different point in this continuum than musical performance."
  created: '2013-02-06 19:51:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "All analogies break down under close comparison, because they\u2019re analogies.\r\nI
    wasn\u2019t suggesting a close correspondence across the board, merely one common
    principle!\r\n\r\nThe classical score is \uFB01xed, just as letter shapes are.\r\nNotes
    are like letters, spaced in time.\r\nIn that respect, performance corresponds
    to setting type.\r\nThat\u2019s all.\r\n\r\nOne doesn\u2019t expect the music
    maestro to imitate a player piano, so why should the type maestro use default
    \u201CMetrics\u201D or InDesign\u2019s \u201COptical\u201D spacing for display
    when manual kerning is available?\r\n\r\nThere is even the option of custom kerning
    a font in Quark XPress. \r\n\r\n<em>\u2026there are hardly any unique creative
    approaches to kerning.</em>\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nManual kerning is always unique to
    the individual doing it.\r\nIt doesn\u2019t have to follow a de\uFB01ned methodology,
    it\u2019s more a matter of individual taste and expression. \r\n\r\n(However,
    as an exception to the rule, I have managed to employ one completely brain-dead
    method, in <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/shinn/softmachine/\">Softmachine</a>,
    in which the closest proximity between every glyph combination is equalized.)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-06 20:36:35'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "<blockquote>\r\nThe tricky aspect of automating kerning is determining how
    much knowledge is enough, given that the amount of knowledge required is likely
    to vary from design to design. A few years ago, at dinner with some of the clever
    folk from URW, I outlined how I thought an automatic kerning tool should work:
    it would accept iterative 'knowledge' from the designer, starting from a set of
    spacing for key glyphs that are determined by the designer not to need kerning.
    Then the program runs and presents the designer with a proposed set of kerning,
    at which point the designer can look at individual pairs and say 'No, this kind
    of combination should be more like this...'; then that adjustment becomes additional
    knowledge in the next pass of the program. In other words, the program doesn't
    seek to replace the informed eye of the designer, but to capture what the designer
    thinks is appropriate to the design and apply it across the glyph set.\r\n\r\nTo
    my knowledge, no one has built this yet.\r\n</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI have played
    around with a similar idea ( knowledge \u2192 suggestion \u2192 refinements )
    for a Spacing Macro.\r\nIt's not a finished product yet... it's more like a \"proof
    of concept\" test (It works only on the lowercase glyphs so far)... but the results
    are quite decent, and far better than the FL autospacing.\r\nI think it has potential
    if someone else what to improve it... as it is 100% customizable.\r\n\r\nScreencast
    on how it is supposed to be used: https://vimeo.com/45648496 \r\nDownload Macro
    and play around: http://www.impallari.com/projects/overview/spacing-macro\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-06 23:47:03'
date: '2008-11-21 14:57:13'
title: What is good kerning?

---
