---
author:
  name: ebensorkin
  picture: 109987
body: "Chinese Writing: What are your top references? \r\n\r\nThe reason I ask is
  I am doing a short essay on comparing and characterizing contextual features in
  Chinese Arabic and Latin. I feel good about the Latin, and fairly good about the
  Arabic because i have some reference folk & books etc  but in the case of the Chinese
  I am having a harder time than I would have thought finding a document which however
  flawed ( what document isn't? ) is still a reasonable document to reference. BTW
  what I am interested in finding is a) what models of dividing the strokes dominate,
  I have seen quite a few different ones or if no model does; and b) and anything
  that characterizes the alteration of radicals to fit beyond simply showing \"how\"
  to do it with a visual example. I am not sure how good a fit with typophile this
  is, but I have my fingers crossed. \r\n\r\nAs a postscript ( oh unintended pun!
  ouch!! ) If there are any references that somebody that is making a CJK font should
  know about and you want to post that info as well that would be super peachy! So
  of my classmates here at Reading are gearing up to do that kind of font.\r\n\r\nThanks!"
comments:
- author:
    name: lunde
    picture: 111902
  body: "I have a feeling that you'd find various parts of \"CJKV Information Processing\"
    Second Edition, due out next month, to be very helpful. See: [[http://oreilly.com/catalog/9780596514471/]]\r\n\r\nIf
    you send to me an email, I can send back its current TOC.\r\n\r\nDr. Ken Lunde\r\nSenior
    Computer Scientist, CJKV Type Development\r\nAdobe Systems Incorporated\r\nlunde@adobe.com"
  created: '2008-11-26 21:28:31'
- author:
    name: David W. Goodrich
  body: "Qiu Xigui's [[http://ieas.berkeley.edu/publications/ecp_qiu.html|Chinese
    Writing]] (which I set into type) is a detailed and comprehensive account of the
    subject.  It emphasizes historical evolution of a writing system that has been
    in continuous use since the Bronze Age and the subject of scholarly study for
    two millennia; it is not an easy read for the non-specialist.  (I keep my copy
    handy, shelved near \"CJKV Information Processing.\")\r\n\r\nChinese writing of
    course is not alphabetic.  Nor is it \"ideographic,\" despite the Unicode Consortium's
    unfortunate adoption of that term: a 12th-century survey of 24,235 different characters
    counts only 7% ideographic forms.  The sheer number of characters is a formidable
    obstacle when it comes to type; Chinese and Koreans may argue for precedence in
    inventing movable type many centuries ago, but the difficulty of creating large
    enough fonts was a major factor in delaying serious use of the technology for
    CJK languages until well into the Industrial Age.\r\n\r\nFont size does not go
    way in the Information Age, and continues to constrain artistic innovation.  So
    does geography: the same writing system covers a host of dialects that have evolved
    separately so long as to be mutually unintelligible.  This is compounded by the
    relative paucity of sounds compared to other languages, so that meaning leans
    more heavily on context.  It is not uncommon to see Chinese resolving doubts in
    conversation by \"writing\" a character with a finger to show what they mean.
    \ All in all, tradition weighs very heavily on Chinese writing.\r\n\r\nOn the
    other, Chinese writing is also an ancient art form.  Beautiful (brush) writing
    goes back many, many centuries, with long-established conventions and the artistic
    freedom to re-interpret and vary from same.\r\n\r\nOne area where Opentype-type
    \"context\" could count is traditional vs. simplified Chinese, two separate \"languages\"
    (or attributes) in computerdom.  Anyone well imbued with the both forms will know
    how hard it can be to unify a given piece of Chinese text to one set or the other:
    the two overlap not only in the concrete world but also as one reads them.  A
    few recent Opentype fonts implement traditional and simplified characters as alternate
    forms that InDesign's glyph palette allows one to swap.  I read somewhere that
    one of the Windows system fonts for Chinese briefly could use a language attribute
    to select between but I've mislaid the reference.\r\n\r\nI don't mean to be as
    obscurantist as this may sound, but occasionally I recall the closing words in
    the movie \"Chinatown,\" where someone explains to Jack Nicholson's character
    that some things Chinese defy simple explanation.\r\n\r\nGood luck!\r\nDavid"
  created: '2008-11-27 17:59:16'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "I think the first thing you need to clear is what you mean by \"contextual
    features\". The choices are:\r\n\r\n1. Context between print characters within
    a line.\r\n2. Context between strokes and radicals within a print character.\r\n3.
    Context between strokes, radicals or characters in handwritten script.\r\n\r\nTo
    1: There is basically none. Each character occupies an equal rectangle space (it's
    why Chinese is nicknamed the \"square script\") and does not interact with neighboring
    characters. The only contextual variation happens to the spacing of punctuations,
    and to some punctuations themselves depending on the direction of the text flow
    (horizontal vs. vertical punctuation).\r\n\r\nTo 2: As far as I know, there are
    no clear-cut rules, and all common-sense rules are derived from calligraphic traditions,
    see below.\r\n\r\nTo 3: Well, Chinese calligraphy is a self-contained discipline
    of visual art, as complex as any other discipline. Although I'm somewhat familiar
    with the topic (some in my family are professionals and semi-professionals practicing
    and/or teaching Chinese typography and its history), I don't even know where to
    begin. In any case, I'd say this is something you're most likely not able to learn
    in a couple of weeks. And though the same could be said about Latin and Arabic
    calligraphy, the difference is that there isn't a Chinese Gutenberg who's formalized
    a somewhat authoritative set of rules for Chinese (micro-)typography. I've seen
    one book about Chinese type design (written in Chinese, of course), and it's basically
    a collection of a few hundred examples. The whole field is far from being systematically
    developed (in the scientific sense) yet."
  created: '2008-11-27 19:11:37'
- author:
    name: lunde
    picture: 111902
  body: "With regard to ideographs (I agree that this name is unfortunate, but I now
    prefer it over \"Chinese characters\") being confined to a square or otherwise
    uniform box, that is merely a convention. We have developed a typeface design,
    called Kazuraki, which breaks that assumption. (It also broke some Adobe applications
    in the process. ;-)\r\n\r\nEach ideograph (and kana) in Kazuraki is genuinely
    proportional. Some are wider than they are tall, and vice versa. It depends on
    the ideograph. The typeface design even includes two- and three-character vertical
    hiragana ligatures. I crafted this just now:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/kazuraki-sample_6441.jpg]\r\n\r\nNote
    the two-character hiragana ligatures in the first, third, and fourth lines.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    you can read about the production aspects of Kazuraki in Adobe Tech Note #5901,
    which I authored. See: [[http://www.adobe.com/devnet/font/pdfs/5901.Kazuraki_Tutorial.pdf]]\r\n\r\nDr.
    Ken Lunde\r\nSenior Computer Scientist, CJKV Type Development\r\nAdobe Systems
    Incorporated\r\nlunde@adobe.com"
  created: '2008-11-27 22:26:59'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "Fascinating, could you provide an example in horizontal, please?\r\n\r\nEdit:
    OK, I just read \"All glyphs needed to be replicated for vertical use, due\r\nto
    limitations in the ability to shift glyphs in both X- and Y-axis directions in
    the OpenType \u2018vmtx\u2019 table\". That seems to be an very unreasonable limitation,
    does the last version of OpenType spec get rid of that?"
  created: '2008-11-28 07:52:59'
- author:
    name: Werfer
    picture: 111217
  body: '@lunde - wow! That is impressive!'
  created: '2008-11-28 13:04:08'
- author:
    name: lunde
    picture: 111902
  body: "Here is the same text, but set horizontally:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/kazuraki-sample-horizontal_6574.jpg]\r\n\r\nAlthough
    the glyphs themselves are the same as their vertical counterparts, they have different
    GIDs, and the 'vert' GSUB feature is performing the context-sensitive substitution
    (the context is vertical writing mode).\r\n\r\nIn terms of the need to replicate
    the glyphs for vertical writing, the OpenType specification has not change to
    alleviate the need for this. Given the fact that subroutinization effectively
    takes care of any filesize-related issues, and the fact that users need not be
    exposed to the inner workings of the font, it is a non-problem. Even if the OpenType
    specification were to change, there is then the ripple effect of ensuring that
    all of the clients and applications that use the 'vmtx' table recognize the new
    version correctly.\r\n\r\nDr. Ken Lunde\r\nSenior Computer Scientist, CJKV Type
    Development\r\nAdobe Systems Incorporated\r\nlunde@adobe.com"
  created: '2008-11-28 14:14:15'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Henry, thanks for your question.\r\n\r\nI mean \"2. Context between strokes
    and radicals within a print character.\" and also \r\n\"3. Context between strokes,
    radicals or characters in handwritten script.\"\r\n\r\nKen Kunde is absolutely
    right to point out that running hand style produces ligatres and therefore a kind
    of contextual impact of one glyph on the other. In fact in the ra/no ligature
    ( hiragana) the one blends into the other completely.\r\n\r\nWhat I am after though
    is PhD or other works that analyse what goes on within a chinese glyph/kanji when
    a radical has to fit with other strokes. There are many examples of exceptions
    and even reinventions of shapes but there also seems to be a bit of a pattern
    especially when the radical is essentially intact.\r\n\r\nFor example\r\n\r\nIf
    you take the radical \u5915 (evening) and then look at it in \u6B7B (death) you
    can see the angle become more acute and to preserve clarity all the strokes become
    less dense. If you look at \u591A (frequent) the angle becomes less acute and
    again there is stroke thinning which I willstop mentioning now. A more extreme
    axample is \u5922 where the angle is flattened even more.\r\n\r\nThe reason I
    picked the first one is that it's angle makes it's transformations fairly interesting.\r\n\r\nThe
    example of \u65E5 (sun) is contrasting because it is a boxy shape and also because
    it is used a great deal - 603 entries in the dictionary I am using just now. It
    can appear on the side \u6664 (clear),\u66DA darkness; top \u6607 (rise up), and
    the vertical and horizontal compression looks almost like it could be done mechanically
    even if it can't be.\r\n\r\nThen there is \u5C38 (flag) which interestingly shrinks
    just part of itself. A very exteme axample is \u5C6C ( how is that for dense with
    strokes? - genus, subordinate official, belong, affiliated) \r\n\r\nThen there
    is \u5DDD (River, stream) which can be found in \u9806 (which means several things;
    docility, obey, occasion, order, right, turn) and which is a horizontal squish.
    But also can be interleaved like this: \u5DDE (province or state) or shot through:
    \u5345 (thirty).\r\n\r\nSo that's the behavior, or some of it, and what I am wondering
    is if any body recalls work done that describes the systems at work. I mean something
    beyond \"common sense\" and is fairly analytical - especially in visual terms.
    \r\n\r\nMy next step is to go trolling in the PhDs and see what that might turn
    up.\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-29 15:28:47'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Eben, I suspect that rather than looking into PhDs, you may get more just
    by asking a classically trained Chinese or Japanese calligrapher. I'm sure there
    are training manuals also, but they are likely to be in Chinese or Japanese. [[http://www.keithtam.net/|Keith
    Tam]] I think would be a good person for you to contact. \r\n\r\nSince even with
    Roman letters design balance is such a complex matter, I doubt you are going to
    get beyond a handful of rules. That handful will no doubt be very significant,
    though.\r\n\r\nFinally, as you probably know, some forms, like the characters
    for heart and water, are different on their own and in combination with other
    radicals.   "
  created: '2008-11-29 16:27:32'
- author:
    name: lunde
    picture: 111902
  body: "The technology that we developed, and which we continue to use as a design
    tool, does this in a very unique way. We first disclosed it in late 2005, when
    we held OpenType Developer Day events in Beijing and Seoul. Basically, an element
    library is developed that is used to construct the glyph. What makes this element
    library unique is that each element is a multiple master glyph, with up to four
    design axes. Some simpler elements may have only two design axes. This allows
    the shapes to contort within a defined scope. Height and width are obvious parameters,
    but stroke thickness and curvature are others. We also implemented a quasi-fifth
    axis, for rotation.\r\n\r\nBTW, I found the document I was referring to. It is
    one of the presentations at the OpenType Developer Day in Beijing (11/2005). I
    will send the PDF to you in a few minutes.\r\n\r\nIn terms of the design tool,
    it is proprietary, and we do not sell or license it. This is mainly due to the
    extreme nature of its learning curve. Documentation and support would be a nightmare.
    But, it works. Our Kozuka Mincho and Kozuka Gothic typeface families were designed
    with this technology.\r\n\r\nDr. Ken Lunde\r\nSenior Computer Scientist, CJKV
    Type Development\r\nAdobe Systems Incorporated\r\nlunde@adobe.com"
  created: '2008-11-29 16:36:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I see from Lunde and James that this subject is already very far advanced.
    Thanks. '
  created: '2008-11-29 19:24:53'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "@Eben: Since we're talking about micro-typography and type design, you should
    also pay attention to the differences between vector and bitmap fonts, because
    they sometimes deal with areal compression in very different ways -- sometimes
    with extreme measures in case of bitmap font. Take a look at the following example
    of Microsoft SimSun at three hinted sizes plus the anti-aliased rendering:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cangshu_3811.png]\r\n\r\nNotice
    how the 10 pt version simply omits strokes and converts complex radicals into
    abstract stand-ins? Also interesting, how the 16 pt version suddenly gets some
    serifs, which the 10 pt and 12 pt versions don't have?\r\n\r\n@William: On the
    subject of areal compression, I wouldn't concentration too much on free calligraphy
    because calligraphers are by and large free to break out of the square box while
    type designers usually can't. Also, calligraphers don't have to deal with limited
    resolution, which is another highly relevant aspect for the type designer."
  created: '2008-11-29 19:25:17'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "@Lunde:\r\n\r\nThis it a little off-topic, but since you actually work for
    Adobe Type, I'd like to ask you if Adobe has any plans to systematically improve
    and expand the hinting of its fonts (not just CJKV, but generally), especially
    because with the \"web revolution\" (and Adobe now on the forefront of online
    DTP), print publishing is no longer the only major focus as it once was.\r\n\r\nOr
    do you believe with the dominance of LCD screens nowadays, font hinting has been
    made more or less obsolete by subpixel rendering? (I personally don't like subpixel
    rendering very much and still use traditional font smoothing on LCD screens.)"
  created: '2008-11-29 19:26:15'
- author:
    name: lunde
    picture: 111902
  body: "James,\r\n\r\nThat is a loaded question, because there are several ways to
    approach the issue of web (and mobile) fonts. One way is to start off with a typeface
    design that is display-friendly. A lighter sans serif is what we're favoring these
    days. The design can be further optimized for lower-resolution devices.\r\n\r\nIn
    terms of hinting, we're constantly improving our rasterizers. In terms of the
    hinting parameters that we specify in our fonts, and the hinting that is applied
    via our \"autohint\" tool, they work in unison. Poorly-chosen hinting parameters
    effectively means poor hinting. It's one of those \"garbage in, garbage out\"
    sort of things. It is better to not hint a font than to apply poor hints. As their
    name suggests, hints are designed to guide the rasterizer. When the hints are
    poor, our rasterizers tend to do a better job without them. \r\n\r\nDr. Ken Lunde\r\nSenior
    Computer Scientist, CJKV Type Development\r\nAdobe Systems Incorporated\r\nlunde@adobe.com"
  created: '2008-11-29 19:36:51'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "It's just I've read quite a few articles on how Microsoft (or rather, the
    people they've contracted) spent extra time to fine-tune the hinting of fonts
    like Tahoma -- sometime manually re-create them -- in order to achieve perfect
    low-resolution rendering. The screen optimization of the new MS YaHei has created
    quite some buzz in the Chinese IT press, too (also, how much MS has allegedly
    paid for it). And looking at my SimSun example above -- that kind of \"hinting\"
    *has* to be done manually, right?\r\n\r\nAnd the effort really pays off: Adobe
    Myriad looks stunning in print, but it doesn't even come close to Tahoma or Verdana
    at 10 pt. Given that Adobe doesn't really have many expanded sans-serif families
    for \"business\" usage (why is that actually -- because Slimbach mainly does serifs?),
    I've always wondered why Adobe wouldn't commission a manually hinted 10 pt version
    of Myriad -- or better yet, Myriad SemiCond, as it saves more screen real estate.
    Am I really the only person who wants to have Myriad SemiCond as his screen font?"
  created: '2008-11-29 20:22:33'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Henry, It may be that they expect screens to get better. But I don't think
    it's fair to expect Ken to spill the beans. Also for my purposes the printed text
    is what's relevant although you certainly make a good point!\r\n\r\nWilliam, you
    are absolutely right. Keith would be just the guy to ask. \r\n\r\nKen thanks very
    much indeed!"
  created: '2008-11-29 22:09:07'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I unfortunately have never seen a reference work that describes the contextual
    features of the radicals of Chinese characters in the kind of systematic detail
    that Eben is looking for.\r\n\r\nI did briefly learn Chinese calligraphy when
    I was young, in the regular script (\u6977\u66F8) style. In this style, each character
    needs to fit into a square\u2014not as extremely as in the Song/Ming typefaces
    used for print, but certainly a lot more than in cursive styles where the calligrapher
    is freer to break out of the box (Ken's sample of Kazuraki beautifully shows how
    the freer calligraphic styles break out of the confinement of the square).\r\n\r\nLearning
    Chinese calligraphy consisted entirely of slavishly reproducing the characters
    written by my teacher. I never learned any theory or even how to write other characters
    without a sample in front of me to imitate. The idea was to copy lots and lots
    of characters written by masters to get a sense of how to adjust the shape and
    proportion of the radicals in order to fit each character into a square box.\r\n\r\nI
    have a feeling most Chinese calligraphers achieve this instinctive sense of harmony
    and proportion of the character components through practice and looking at hundreds
    of examples, and I doubt they analyze to any detailed extent what they are doing
    when they shape each character. Type designers might be more systematic (I frankly
    have no idea), but whatever system they use would be derived from an instinctive
    sense of proportion, just like calligraphers.\r\n\r\nEben, is it true that someone
    at Reading is gearing up to do a CJK font? He or she would need to find a way
    to make it doable in a year. I would say that without something like Adobe's proprietary
    design tool, selecting a subset of the 100 most frequently used characters will
    be enough of a challenge to design and implement in a font by one person (who
    has no prior CJK font design experience) in one year.\r\n\r\nOr what about tackling
    hangul, the Korean alphabet? Although hangul glyphs are built up from components
    and require a sense for shaping these components as in Chinese characters, it
    is possible to apply a more modular approach as the variation won't be as extreme
    as in Chinese characters. If one is aiming for a more innovative design, one can
    minimize the variation in the shapes of the individual alphabetic components and
    break free of the square box. I've seen at least one person take that approach
    to create a free hangul font for Linux. Plus, I may be able to provide design
    feedback for hangul as a native reader of Korean. In any case, good luck to whoever
    is willing to take up the CJK challenge and to Eben and all the Reading students."
  created: '2008-11-30 02:38:30'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: Now you've mentioned it, I think creating a Hangul font is a perfect starting
    exercise for a Unihan font, especially regarding the contextual placement of strokes
    and radicals.
  created: '2008-11-30 04:12:56'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "@Jongseong:\r\n\r\nYou're right that almost all Chinese calligraphers learn
    \"placement\" (that's the proper English term, I believe) intuitively rather than
    systematically. Still, there have been some (rather rudimentary) attempts to scientifically
    analyze the common aesthetics of Chinese calligraphy, most notably by the later
    grand master Qi Gong.\r\n\r\nHe analyzed a large number of famous calligraphical
    works and determined that the weight of a character (center of gravity) should
    ideally fall to the four intersection points which divide the bounding square
    at the Golden Ratio, and most prominently, the upper left of the four should be
    the main center of gravity (among others, it means statistically, the density
    of strokes should be higher around that point than anywhere else) -- which, of
    course, is very much in line with the well known rule of \"top denser than bottom,
    left denser than right, inside denser than outside\".\r\n\r\nI don't know if anyone
    has tested the Golden Ratio Hypothesis on standard computer fonts, though it's
    not very hard to write an algorithm for it: Rasterize a font to a fixed size,
    then add all characters on top of each other, and look where the \"blackest\"
    point is within the square."
  created: '2008-11-30 04:42:29'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I don't have the programming skills to write such an algorithm, but for fun
    I manually stacked the first 32 characters of the Thousand Character Classic in
    the default Windows XP font SimSun. I had to stop at 32 characters because it
    was taking forever.\r\n\u5929\u5730\u7384\u9EC3\u3000\u5B87\u5B99\u6D2A\u8352\u3000\u65E5\u6708\u76C8\u6603\u3000\u8FB0\u5BBF\u5217\u5F35\r\n\u5BD2\u4F86\u6691\u5F80\u3000\u79CB\u6536\u51AC\u85CF\u3000\u958F\u9918\u6210\u6B72\u3000\u5F8B\u5442\u8ABF\u967D\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/thousandchineseflat_3469.gif]\r\nIt's
    difficult to draw any conclusions with only 32 characters, but I have a feeling
    the centre of gravity for SimSun and other similar computer fonts is closer to
    the analytical centre than it would be for most calligraphic styles. Nevertheless,
    there is a strong central vertical that runs slightly to the left of the analytical
    centre (at around 47% of the way from the left of the bounding circle to the right).
    This is because characters such as \u5B87, \u5B99, \u4F86, and \u958F have vertical
    strokes at the visual centre. There is no corresponding central horizontal line,
    as very few characters above have visually central horizontal strokes. We should
    keep in mind all along that looking for the densest point is simply not the same
    as figuring out the centre of gravity.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure I understand Qi Gong's
    theory correctly, though. So the four points he describes are the four intersections
    below? How is the bounding square measured?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/thousandchinesered_5596.gif]"
  created: '2008-11-30 15:11:15'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "@Jongseong:\r\n\r\nYou're absolutely right that the densest point of concentration
    is not the same as the center of gravity -- measuring the latter requires significantly
    more sophistication. The algorithm I suggested above was just meant to be a starting
    point for any systematical analysis.\r\n\r\nAs for the compound box, I'd say it's
    determined optically -- how else could it be done for free-hand calligraphy?"
  created: '2008-11-30 16:50:45'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "Song is probably not the ideal representative, it'd much better to start
    with Kai. This is the example my father used in his \"Introduction to Chinese
    Calligraphy\" seminar (for people who don't know Chinese):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/wu_4676.png]\r\n\r\nThe
    typeface is Adobe Kaiti Std here, while my father showcased free-hand samples
    of the character in different calligraphical styles (Li, Cao, Xing, Kai)."
  created: '2008-11-30 17:09:00'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "<cite>Basically, an element library is developed that is used to construct
    the glyph. What makes this element library unique is that each element is a multiple
    master glyph, with up to four design axes.</cite>\r\n\r\nVery interesting. Although
    there is also another solution: <a href=\"http://engineering.tufts.edu/GradResearch/documents/GradResearch2006/jakubiak.pdf\">An
    Improved Representation for Stroke-based Fonts</a> [PDF]. I wonder which is the
    best way to design parametric fonts and preserve every character unique\u2026"
  created: '2008-11-30 17:47:49'
- author:
    name: David W. Goodrich
  body: "\"Book culture\" has been a hot topic in American sinology for a decade,
    resulting in a number of publications on printing history in China that touch
    on type.  Joseph P. McDermott's \"A Social History of the Chinese Book\" discusses
    issues such as the value of hand-copies vs. wood-block prints, and consequent
    influence.  He also provides details of the transition between: the artist who
    wrote out the masters for wood-block pages was necessarily literate, but carvers
    were not; experienced carvers handled the tricky parts of individual characters,
    leaving the easier strokes for apprentices.  In other words, Chinese \"type\"
    was industrialized and formalized centuries before becoming movable on a significant
    scale.   The emphasis on practicality is summed up in Lucille Chia's title, \"Printing
    for Profit.\"  Nothing too startling in all this -- Gutenberg imitated manuscripts,
    and market factors have long colored printing in the west.\r\n\r\nOne difference
    is that the act of writing has retained its value in China, Korea and Japan through
    its traditional association with scholarship.  Like my parents before me, I was
    taught penmanship in elementary school (in the 1950s), but that disappeared long
    before my children reached school age.  It continues in China.  One indication
    of the separation between type and writing-as-art (\"calligraphy\") in the Chinese
    context surfaces in the common criticism of simplified characters, which often
    borrow short-hand forms from hand-writing that look inelegant re-cast in type.
    One of the ironies here is that when typing Chinese you no longer have to draw
    all the strokes -- computerized type addresses the challenging aspect of using
    traditional characters.\r\n\r\nI am very impressed by the technical virtuosity
    of Ken's examples, but when I want to see beautiful Chinese writing I look to
    the calligraphy of Zhao Mengfu -- centuries old but still very much alive and
    capturing the moment of its creation.  Different strokes for different purposes.\r\n\r\nComputers
    have obviously been a huge boon to Chinese type -- one has only to contemplate
    mechanical Chinese typewriters.  The complexity of CJK characters makes screen
    resolution a big deal, as James noted already.  The less-than-ideal quality of
    computer displays may ultimately be more influential than any other factor in
    the acceptance of simplified characters outside of the People's Republic.  But
    although PRC citizens now comprise the single largest group on the internet, the
    real action may be happening on telephones.  Google \"chinese text messaging\"
    for an idea of the importance of tiny-screen type: an account from a couple of
    years ago claimed 1.2 billion text messages per day. How might this effect the
    course of Chinese writing?"
  created: '2008-11-30 21:22:04'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>I\u2019ve always wondered why Adobe wouldn\u2019t commission a manually
    hinted 10 pt version of Myriad</em>\r\n\r\nThat has actually been done a long
    time ago. It's called [[http://store1.adobe.com/cfusion/store/html/index.cfm?store=OLS-US&event=displayFontPackage&code=1507|Myriad
    Web Pro]]. Keep in mind that this family does NOT have the same glyphset and language
    coverage as the Myriad Pro family."
  created: '2008-12-06 22:13:23'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: Are you sure Myriad Web, Minion Web etc. are manually hinted? I used then
    years ago and I wasn't very satisfied with them.
  created: '2008-12-06 22:37:04'
date: '2008-11-26 21:20:50'
node_type: forum
title: 'Chinese Writing: What are your top references?'

---
