---
author:
  name: apankrat
body: "Any thoughts on the concept ? \r\nIs the wordmark worth considering to begin
  with given the length of the name ?\r\n\r\nThanks\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pn-wordmark_4480.png]\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: 'I think the concept looks quite nice! I read "PRECISION ETWORKING" though. '
  created: '2008-11-30 12:29:38'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "Yeah, visually is nice, but name needs work. \"Precision Etworking\" doesn't
    convey precision work to me.\r\n\r\npenn"
  created: '2008-11-30 21:31:11'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "Well, the name is actually mangled on purpose. \r\n\r\nThe idea is that <em>if</em>
    it reads as two words that overlap at the 'n', the quirky spelling is that something
    extra that makes the name more memorable.\r\n\r\nMy assumption was that since
    'etworking' is an obvious non-word the shared nature of 'n' was going to be obvious.
    Do you guys read it in fact as an 'etworking'\r\n\r\nGood point about missing
    letter not relating well to the 'precision' part of the name, Penn. Never occurred
    to me to look at it from this angle."
  created: '2008-11-30 22:33:19'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>The idea is that if it reads as two words that overlap at the \u2019n\u2019</em>\r\n\r\nIt
    doesn't. \r\nTypographically, the N belongs to the \"PRECISION\" part without
    any ambiguity."
  created: '2008-11-30 22:53:21'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "precisely<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul
    Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic Design Melbourne</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.showusyourshorts.com.au\">Short Film Festval</a>\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-30 23:00:59'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "OK, thanks. \r\n\r\nAny thoughts on how to make 'n' ambiguous ? I considered
    using bold type for the 'n' alone, but the result looks somewhat visually unbalanced.
    Neither does underscored, mirrored or accented 'n' work. Perhaps I'm just not
    giving it the right treatment. \r\n\r\nAny thoughts or hints are welcome. I seem
    to be running quite low on the ideas :-|"
  created: '2008-11-30 23:14:19'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Just a thought \u2013 it may really suffice to have one good idea in your
    concept instead of two that don't rely on each other. In my opinion, if you add
    the missing 'n' and explore detail treatments from there, this may become quite
    a memorable, if minimalist, logo. "
  created: '2008-11-30 23:36:35'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "\u2022 Maybe try to conceptualize \"precision registration\" of the middle
    N. Eg with a light weight side and a black side. where they overlap is knocked
    out forming an in-line N.\r\n\r\n\u2022 Or maybe extend the diagonal, shifting
    the second half down and physically networking the two words.\r\n\r\nI agree with
    above, don't need 2 ideas in a logo, just one.\r\n\r\nBTW, it feels to me like
    the whole precisio(n)etworking idea came from domain availability rather than
    a real concept. If so, a gimmicky url is only adding confusion to would-be website
    visitors. I would avoid this if possible (understanding sometimes it's not).\r\n\r\nLast
    thought: In your current version the bold and regular don't have enought contrast
    for me.\r\n\r\nGood luck!"
  created: '2008-12-01 00:11:39'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "Let me tell you all something. People tend to read words as patterns and
    not letter-by-letter, therefore PRECISIONETWORKING in this example reads just
    fine. I think there would be a really insignificant minority that wouldn't be
    able to read it correctly.\r\n\r\nIt's true that our eye also catches the misspelling,
    but we still read it correctly.\r\n\r\nThe other question is whether this idea
    goes well with \"precision\". Which probably doesn't. But the idea is very nice
    and very well done. It probably just needs some polishing. Maybe actually using
    double overlapped letter N would solve the trick and positioning those triangles
    on them. We also get a mark: double N with triangles.\r\n___________\r\n<em>Robert
    Koritnik</em>"
  created: '2008-12-01 07:47:54'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>Let me tell you all something. People tend to read words as patterns
    and not letter-by-letter, therefore PRECISIONETWORKING in this example reads just
    fine.</em>\r\n\r\nI think there are two factors here that hinder this kind of
    \"pattern reading\": (a), that the name is set in all caps which makes me \"decipher\"
    it rather than fluidly read it; and (b), that the bold\u2013thin contrast introduces
    a \"break\" so to speak right before the E of ETWORKING, thereby setting that
    apart as a word. That's just how it works for me \u2026\r\n\r\n<em>Maybe actually
    using double overlapped letter N would solve the trick and positioning those triangles
    on them.</em>\r\n\r\nI was thinking about that too \u2013 but wouldn't that actually
    be an image for <em>im</em>precision?"
  created: '2008-12-01 08:08:25'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "Thanks a lot for comments, they are very helpful.\r\n\r\nRandy - your guess
    is close. The availability of the domain played its role, but it wasn't <strong>the</strong>
    deciding factor. As I said before the whole idea was to use quirky spelling as
    one of the logo attributes to improve its memorability. Even though it's an unconventional
    approach, I still think it has a lot of merit if used in moderation.\r\n\r\nNina,
    Robert - I am of an opinion that lies somewhere between yours, but closer to Robert's.
    When set without any visual accents, the mark reads as \"Precisio Networking\",
    simply because Networking is easy to spot and Precisio looks like a probable proper
    name. For this reason I tried forcing N into the first word and assumed that borrowing
    N to complete 'etworking' is an obvious thing to do.\r\n\r\nRegarding the double
    overlapping N. I tried few variations of this (before I started this thread) and
    they all looked quite busy. Re-positioning arrows above the NN would probably
    not help matters either. Though it'd be certainly nice to have a standalone mark
    as a byproduct. "
  created: '2008-12-01 09:27:17'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "Actually, if you DO want to merge the two words, <br> PRECISIO<b>NETWORKING</b>
    works better (for met) than <br> <b>PRECISION</b>ETWORKING\r\n\r\nSzabolcs"
  children:
  - author:
      name: aszszelp
      picture: 113906
    body: "Hey! Where did my HTML markup get lost??\r\n\r\nAnyway, if you make the
      N belong to networking, visually (i.e. same font weight), there is less trouble
      identifying the concept, IMHO.\r\n\r\nSzabolcs"
    created: '2008-12-01 15:16:30'
  created: '2008-12-01 15:15:41'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: 'aszszelp: use < strong > .. < / strong > and < em > .. < / em > etc, for
    bold/italic (without the spaces).'
  created: '2008-12-02 10:37:09'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Alex, I recommend you take this view that the N belongs to 'precision' and
    \"typographically\" isn't part of 'networking' with a large grain of salt. Litera
    has a good point and I happen to agree with him. I can read it one way or the
    other, with the N belonging to both words.\r\n\r\nThe opinions of typophiles can
    be useful, with some of them even managing to be authoritative. But just because
    one or two typophilers say a thing is so does not make that phenomenon real, official
    or even half obvious to the rest of the world. Some typophilers are full of themselves
    and their own personal dogma, and some just aren't very flexible. Typophile \"expert\"
    opinion is one thing, the real world and its broader perception (perception not
    informed mostly by looking at fonts) is something else.\r\n\r\nWhat really counts
    is what ordinary people think, the people who will encounter your logo on a daily
    basis. With this in mind, if It were my logo design I would test as few paste-ups
    (try variants) on people your work and do business with. You will soon find out
    how your design really works&#8212;for the people whose perception of it really
    matters.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-12-02 21:40:32'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Also, the thin stroke capitals give an impression of precision as per your
    brief, but you may consider adding bold caps to the mix to make more friendly.
    If you can find matching bold caps that still give off a precision feel (not too
    difficult).\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-12-02 21:43:59'
- author:
    name: genericboy
    picture: 113715
  body: "That's definitely some good advice, and not just on Typophile - there's been
    a few times that I've killed an early idea off because friends have given me doubts,
    only to go back to it later and find that I should have taken it further! That
    said, I personally see Precision Etworking too - the 'N' does seem to belong to
    <em>precision</em> and not <em>networking</em> because of the weight change.\r\n\r\nRegarding
    using it as a domain name, I'd be careful doing this if <em>precisionnetworking</em>
    is taken by someone else. Having a clever stylistic touch in a logo is one thing
    - but if the company's name is 'Precision Networking', people are not necessarily
    going to remember to drop an N in a URL.\r\n\r\nJust a thought - it might well
    look terrible, but have you tried using two Ns which overlap, one in each weight?
    Might lose the ambiguity - on the other hand, it'll probably just look shit!\r\n\r\nLove
    the crop mark, by the way, and aside from the possible ambiguity I think this
    is a really tasteful wordmark. Nicely done - I'm sure the right solution is right
    around the corner!\r\n\r\nAndi\r\n\r\n[<a href='http://www.semibad.com'>semibad</a>]"
  created: '2008-12-03 12:47:55'
- author:
    name: PCM
  body: "I'll leave te mark alone as I don't have much to add to the others comments,
    but as an interaction designer, I would agree with others and definitely advise
    against any confusing URL (i.e. precisionetworking.com). By combining the words
    in the URL, you are already creating an instance of user friction which will affect
    direct hits, and for those users who care enough to find the company, they will
    have to do a Google search -- a definite no-no. By the time they've arrived at
    the correct URL (and likely found your competitor who already owns precisionnetworking.com),
    they have already spent way too much time finding you and you have an uphill battle
    to keep their attention and prevent bouncing. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-03 17:08:39'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "Thanks for the comments, everyone. This is the sort of a feedback I was looking
    for. Even though it may not look like it is <em>very</em> helpful, but it actually
    is.\r\n\r\nJames, I hear you regarding showing the sketches to the \"ordinary
    people\" :-) I did just that before I posted here and the feedback never focused
    on Etworking being hard to parse. Frankly I was surprised to see that quite a
    few people here couldn't recognize Etworking for what it was. I still am actually.\r\n\r\nAndi,
    the domain name being misspelled is actually not as big of deal. Majority of those
    searching for a web site are going to skip the guessing step and head straight
    to Google. If the company is notable, it will be on top of the list. Regrading
    using NN in the middle - it doesn't look fitting in pretty much all variations
    I tried. In the best case it looks like a moderately interesting mark, but I think
    the pointy triangles work better.\r\n\r\nPCM, regarding the use of Google when
    searching for the company being a definite no-no - care to elaborate ? As I just
    said above it seems counter-intuitive to me. I certainly agree that a straight-forward
    URL is always better, but I don't think that not having it is that big of deal
    <em>if</em> the company name has a top placement in a Google search.\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-04 05:28:17'
- author:
    name: PCM
  body: "Sorry if I was vague. Using Google to find a company is absolutely ok, but
    IME many people try a direct URL if they are repeat visitors (Company-name+.com)
    or if they've already received marketing materials either through an interactive
    campaign or print or mailers. If they then have to hit Google after finding your
    competitors page or a squatter page, you've already used up a valuable couple
    clicks of their time, and their impression is slightly affected. It might not
    seem like much, but when you are dealing with metrics in the tens of thousands,
    and trying to minimize bounce rates it can definitely make a difference. And if
    they Google search and a competitor or squatter is at the top with you, it's another
    layer of friction (cognitive decision) for people to deal with. i know it sounds
    like BS but little things like that IMHO can really affect brand value and impression
    and ultimately translate into lower conversion rates. \r\n\r\nSo to make a short
    story long, I would assume that most people would not carry over the visual combination
    you've created into the URL. They would likely parse the thought:  \"precision+networking\".
    I would offer to buy precisionnetworking.com, even if it sets you back a bit.
    It's a good investment. \r\n\r\np.s. I like the mark by the way -- it's a nice
    clean typeface and carries the concept -- although I share the concerns about
    the potential for confusion, especially since \"precisio\" seems to be a somewhat
    popular name. I would really like to see some color get worked in. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-04 06:50:30'
- author:
    name: PCM
  body: 'By the way, I''m not necessarily saying to abandon the mark with the single
    "N", just that I do think it would be helpful to get the full URL if you can. '
  created: '2008-12-04 06:54:11'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>I did just that before I posted here and the feedback never focused on
    Etworking being hard to parse.</em>\r\n\r\nInteresting. I'm always amazed at how
    un-nitpicky 'ordinary people' are :)\r\n\r\nI am sorry if I came across as too
    harsh; and I totally agree with Andi in the feeling that \"the right solution
    is just around the corner\".\r\n\r\nSure I could 'recognize' what you were trying
    to get at, I'm just not sure it's good strategy. I personally feel that 'witty
    spelling' would need to be both catchy and compelling to really add to the mark
    / name being memorable; lacking that, it just ends up being difficult to remember
    (just like the 'compromise' URL probably won't help in making it easy for potential
    or existing clients to find you)."
  created: '2008-12-04 08:50:16'
- author:
    name: PCM
  body: "Here's a quick concept for how to address the combination N-N in the current
    wordmark. \r\n\r\nDo not take this visual as a literal suggestion, as I threw
    it together sloppily in 30 seconds. Maybe play around with this idea using the
    correct typeface and a better treatment i.e more appropriate spacing, etc?\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/nn_rough_6624.jpg]"
  created: '2008-12-04 18:05:10'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'You already have a strong concept with the precision marks and the I. The
    issue of the ''N'' is just adding too much to the mark, IMHO. '
  created: '2008-12-04 19:02:20'
- author:
    name: jayyy
    picture: 109661
  body: "Or maybe flip the second 'N' to unify or 'network' them.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/NN_5235.jpg]"
  created: '2008-12-04 19:34:57'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "Well, I actually tried both versions you guys suggested. While it <em>is</em>
    possible to make the NN look decent and unobtrusive, this turns NN into a second
    feature of the wordmark (in addition to the \"I\" ticks) and the result looks
    a bit too complicated.\r\n\r\nI am now (almost) convinced to drop the name mangling
    and just go with simple ..ION NET.. instead. I was just not sure if the accented
    \"I\" could pull the wordmark on its own."
  created: '2008-12-04 22:46:30'
- author:
    name: PCM
  body: sorry to muddle it up even more but what about moving the "I" ticks over to
    the center above the N's, as if (like jayyy suggested) you are networking the
    two words. Just a thought. Have to tell you, while I've gotten some great feedback
    from here, sometimes I leave more confused than before. Take the advice and go
    off and do what feels right. good luck!
  created: '2008-12-04 23:05:26'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: I agree with all of the suggestions. And also that it is fine as is. I don't
    think it is perfect but i do think people will like figuring out the name on their
    own.
  created: '2008-12-04 23:36:15'
- author:
    name: genericboy
    picture: 113715
  body: "<em>\"Andi, the domain name being misspelled is actually not as big of deal.
    Majority of those searching for a web site are going to skip the guessing step
    and head straight to Google.\"</em>\r\n\r\nI hear you that the majority of people
    will head straight to Google, which is fine. But what about the minority? Put
    another way, shouldn't your wordmark be in service of your client's brand name,
    and not the other way around? \r\n\r\nEven assuming top rank on Google (which
    can <em>never</em> be assured), if 99% of people search and find the site no problem,
    then 1% of people don't, and use the URL directly. How many of those people will
    this affect? Is your design vignette going to improve sales or increase traffic
    enough to make up for that usability hit (however small)? As designers, our job
    is to come up with a solution which will benefit our client - (almost) everything
    else is secondary.\r\n\r\n<em>\"While it is possible to make the NN look decent
    and unobtrusive, this turns NN into a second feature of the wordmark (in addition
    to the \u201CI\u201D ticks) and the result looks a bit too complicated.\"</em>\r\n\r\nYeah,
    I can see how that would happen. But to be honest, isn't dropping the second 'N'
    purely for stylistic reasons a second feature?\r\n\r\n<em>\"I was just not sure
    if the accented \u201CI\u201D could pull the wordmark on its own.\"</em>\r\n\r\nI
    think it probably can, to be honest. It's a very likeable mark, simple and effective.\r\n\r\nHope
    none of the above came across as hostile in any way, or anything other than constructive.
    Remember that a domain name is an important part of SEO. Someone with the 'proper'
    domain name has an instant advantage - which is something to think about if your
    strategy is based around ranking first on Google.\r\n\r\nAndi\r\n\r\n[<a href='http://www.semibad.com'>semibad</a>]"
  created: '2008-12-05 02:05:36'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "PCM, Andi, thanks for the comments.\r\n\r\nOK, so I played with using full
    words and I can't seem to make it work. Double N in the middle appears to looks
    visually distracting regardless of a type setting and colors.\r\n\r\nPrecision
    or Networking alone look pretty decent. In fact I really like the Precision one,
    but it is clearly not an option. \r\n\r\nAny ideas or hints ? Something to nudge
    me in a proper direction.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/precision_4469.png]\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-09 07:31:51'
- author:
    name: genericboy
    picture: 113715
  body: "That really does look good by itself!\r\n\r\nAgain, might look terrible,
    but have you tried setting <em>networking</em> in lowercase? That might set them
    apart, and let you get away with the two N's. Just an idle thought.\r\n\r\nTake
    care,\r\n\r\nAndi\r\n\r\n[<a href='http://www.semibad.com'>semibad</a>]"
  created: '2008-12-09 09:36:42'
- author:
    name: sch2525
    picture: 112170
  body: Reminds me of the Cision logo[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Cision logo_4862.JPG]
  created: '2008-12-09 19:57:17'
- author:
    name: gerald
  body: eh.. that's pushing it a bit
  created: '2008-12-11 07:04:59'
date: '2008-11-30 09:55:51'
title: Wordmark critique please

---
