---
author:
  name: David Rault
  picture: 112608
body: "Hello fellow typophiles,\r\n\r\nI am currently preparing a book in french and
  english, due to be released in Europe and America around september 2009 at Atelier
  Perrousseaux publishing (the french publisher of Adrian Frutiger books), about 'forgotten
  typefaces': alphabets which have been drawn, possibly cast and used 500, 100 or
  30 years ago but, for numerous reasons, didn't make it (yet) to the digital age
  and are not available on any computer. \r\n\r\nThe increasing rarity or lack of
  documentation about these might bring them to complete extinction, so I thought
  it would be a great idea to document these letters and their authors, and to provide
  good quality, high resolution prints of them for the courageous designers who would
  have the good idea to digitize them, or simply for the pleasure to see these letters
  again and again. \r\n\r\nI already have quite a big amount of documentation, but
  I am very much looking for help: if you have any document (visual and/or text) about
  a 'forgotten typeface', I'd be very happy to consider it. Be sure that any help
  will be thoroughly aknowledged in the book.\r\n\r\nThank you in advance,\r\ndr\r\n\r\nps:
  In the framework of this project, I am looking for some high resolution scans from
  the \"book of oz\" which I (unfortunetaly) still don't own. If some good (and lucky)
  soul wants to help..."
comments:
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: David, let me know what you require from the "Book of OZ" and scan requirements
    and I will be glad to help
  created: '2008-12-02 15:04:53'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "Hi David,\r\n\r\nI have been working for the last three years on a Filmotype
    book of which a manuscript is undergoing further editing but I have many photos
    and historical information about this company as well as Lettering Inc, another
    photo type company originally from the 1920s. . . Very few of the photo lettering
    companies libraries made it into the digital age which is what inspired my initial
    historical preservation efforts to revive them . . .\r\n\r\nMark Simonson would
    also be good for you to approach since he has worked with and revived faces of
    many extinct foundries including Phil Martin's original offshoot creations . .
    .\r\n\r\nStuart :D"
  created: '2008-12-02 15:19:11'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Hello again, thanks for the quick input,\r\n\r\nBojev: I have had the book
    of oz only once in my hands, and I remember that there is inside some pages with
    alphabets from oz cooper, apart from the famous ones I think some of them never
    made it to digital: these are the ones I'm interested in. Any scan would be great,
    but if there is a lot, maybe you can at least take some quick snapshots with a
    digital camera in low res and send me... then if I need some of them in high res,
    i can tell you which ones. Anyway, thanks in advance.\r\n\r\nDiner: I would be
    happy to see your material regarding Filmotype and Lettering Inc, though if there
    is already a book in the making, I dont want to make the same work... And about
    Mark Simonson, I would be glad to get in touch with him, but again I am interested
    in typefaces which have not yet been revived.\r\n\r\nThanks again, keep posting,\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-12-02 15:57:53'
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: 'Types shown in Book of OZ are: Cooper OldStyle, Italic, Hilite, Black, Black
    Condensed, Black Italic, Modern, Christmas Ornaments and Clover Bands. Some had
    alternate names like Modern was also know as Fullface.'
  created: '2008-12-02 17:09:31'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: "I've got a slightly battered 1988 VGC type catalog (490 pages) that is full
    of forgotten treasures: Antikva Margaret. Baker Sans. Hibernia. Folkwang. Ryter.
    Rustikalis. WTC 145. A load of unnecessary geometric families, like Bubble, Magnifty,
    Moon, and Stan. Decorated fonts from the quaint Algonquin Shaded to the impossibly
    irreproducible Maya Relief.  More than I can list, really.\r\n\r\nI can scan a
    few things you're particularly interested in, or I might be willing to lend or
    sell the book if there's a whole lot you want to see."
  created: '2008-12-02 17:29:54'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: I have been campaigning for Antikva Margaret to be digitized for years!!!
  created: '2008-12-02 17:49:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "A \"swipe\" book, eh?\r\n\r\nThe Cooper sans design featured in the Book
    of Oz has been digitized a couple of times, but IMO both redesigners took too
    many liberties with Cooper's original. So it could fairly be said that this design
    of his has never yet \"made it into digital\"."
  created: '2008-12-02 19:11:09'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Sem Hartz\u2019s Juliana comes to mind. Used to be a popular bookface (esp.
    in GB \u2014 it never was released in a compatible format in the Netherlands afaik)
    & is currently completely off the radar. Not digitized\u2026\r\n\r\n\r\nhttp://www.kaboodle.com/reviews/lommen-mathieu-sem-hartz-and-the-making-of-linotype-juliana\r\n\r\n.
    . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO\r\n\r\n[Edit: Apparantly FontBureau has made a digital
    version\u2026, but still it\u2019s obscure enough for your purpose, I think.)"
  created: '2008-12-02 19:29:02'
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: The Cooper Sans mentioned by Nick is shown as a specimen plate the Book of
    OZ but not as a refined or issued typeface - more an example of hand lettering
    IMO.
  created: '2008-12-02 20:15:19'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: You might consider including display cuts of more common typefaces, many of
    which have never been digitized. The typical faces offered by the big foundries,
    such as Linotype and Monotype, are based on the text sizes, since that's what
    their pre-digital equipment was made to set. Before the digital era, most hand-set
    cold type (Typositor, rub-down sheets, etc.) for display sizes was based on large
    sizes of foundry metal type. There are significant differences between the text
    cuts and display cuts of metal faces, and we've lost a big part of typographic
    legacy in the one-size-fits-all digital era.
  created: '2008-12-02 20:52:44'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "How about original versions of Futura and Gill Sans?\r\nAlthough Futura has
    some good digital versions, I recall I have a Gill Sans specimen from Monotype
    which showed all the variants, and they were wonderful.\r\nSomething like what
    Mark did with Metallophile for Spartan would be great for Gill Sans, but I guess
    in many ways it should be Monotype duty\u2026\r\n\r\nAmong typefaces I admire
    there's Behrens Antiqua (1902). The only existing digital version is from Dan
    X. Solo; I bought it, and while it's fairly good, it loses almost all the feeling
    of the original, which of course changed considerably from weight to weight.\r\n\r\n<cite>
    and we\u2019ve lost a big part of typographic legacy in the one-size-fits-all
    digital era.</cite>\r\nI subscribe 100%, Mark\u2026 :=)"
  created: '2008-12-02 21:08:03'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "If you're going to look at Cooper's work, then you should also consider the
    lesser known designs by his contemporaries Goudy and Dwiggins. There are probably
    dozens of Goudy faces that are undigitized. After all, he claimed to have designed
    more than 100 typefaces, some of which didn't even make it into much metal distribution
    (including many which may not warrant revival). Jim Rimmer would probably be an
    excellent resource for information about Goudy's oeuvre.\r\n\r\nWorks by Dwiggins
    (my area of some expertise) that might fit your criteria would include:\r\n\r\nCharter
    (although Sibylle Hagman's Odile is a nice homage)\r\nHingham (Christian Schwartz
    had started something loosely based this newsface experiment; I don't recall how
    loose.)\r\nArcadia\r\nStuyvesant (I've been working on an interpretation/homage
    off and on)\r\nFalcon\r\nTippecanoe\r\nExperimental 276D\r\n\r\nOf these, Falcon
    is the only one that was ever commercially produced (posthumously). Charter, Arcadia,
    Stuyvesant, and Tippecanoe made it into at least one commercial publication, but
    were not produced. Experimental 267D made it into one rare piece of ephemera that
    I know of. Not all of these necessarily warrant revival either. And I'm not considering
    other experiments that didn't reach a certain level of fruition.\r\n\r\nI have
    a fair amount of documentation on many of the above list. If you're interested
    in pursuing any of these for your book, let me know. Your brief is pretty wide
    open, so I'm not entirely sure what you're looking for. I'm not so interested
    in contributing to a swipe book, but historical documentation is right up my alley.\r\n\r\n--
    K."
  created: '2008-12-02 21:41:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "My favorite unavailable type of Goudy is Companion, done in the late 1920s
    for <em>Woman's Home Companion</em> magazine. I took some ideas from the italic
    for Oneleigh italic.\r\n\r\nIt's in his <em>Goudy's Type Design,</em> so what's
    the point of putting Goudy faces in a new swipe book?--unless you are going to
    show them in real use. If you're interested in some scans of Companion from <em>Woman's
    Home Companion</em>, let me know."
  created: '2008-12-02 22:50:35'
- author:
    name: jshen
    picture: 113709
  body: The Thermo Series of Morris Fuller Benton
  created: '2008-12-03 00:51:05'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Kevin\r\n\r\nBaker Sans is taken!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-12-03 01:53:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I'm unclear as to the status of some of Van Krimpen's beautiful types. Romulus
    has been revived digitally and impressively by Dutch Type Library, and they even
    show three optical sizes. But it isn't for sale on the DTL site, so I don't know
    if it's finished. Also there is I believe a companion sans that's not been revived.
    Also the beautiful companion flourished italic face Cancellaresca Bastarda has
    never been digitized. Roman\xE9e is something that IIRC Bringhurst says was digitized
    by TEFF, but I don't see it on their site. "
  created: '2008-12-03 04:57:52'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Hello everyone,\r\n\r\nOh my, that's a lot of answers - thanks, first. I
    will answer precisely to everyone today but it will take a little time. Right
    now, I just wanted to let you know that my book will not be a swipe: I am working
    closely with my publisher, Yves Perrousseaux, a well-known typophile, holding
    conferences in Lure every summer since 1969, close friend to Adrian Frutiger (as
    mentionned above, he published 4 of his books in France), currently writing the
    second volume to his monumental typography encyclopedia (volume one being translated
    in english right now). My own first book contains contributions by Erik Spiekermann,
    Ale Paul, Bas Jacobs and Xavier Dupre and was approved by Zuzana Licko and Peter
    Bil'ak; I am not preparing something else than a fully documented homage to some
    typefaces with hopefully great visuals and interesting texts. So, don't worry.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-12-03 08:18:45'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Bojev: Ok I guess I was mistaken then, it looks like all of Oz Cooper typefaces
    have been revived... Thanks anyway.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-12-03 09:46:40'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Cerulean: Antikva Margaret is a beautiful type indeed, I will surely include
    it in the book. I have no idea about the other types; you may send me an email
    and we can discuss this lending - selling option of yours - davidrault(a)gmail.com.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-12-03 09:55:52'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Bert: well if David Berlow did it already... Is it a good idea to put it
    in the book?\r\n\r\nThis subject is interesting indeed because I thought to include
    the Caslon 2 line Egyptian, though it has been digitized many times and never
    released. I am still unsure about this issue. Any thoughts welcome.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-12-03 09:59:18'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Mark: it is a very good idea. I am already in search of such typefaces where
    the differences are important enough to call it a \"different\" type, found some
    but not all I'm afraid. Do you have any specific examples in mind?\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-12-03 10:01:52'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Piccic: I thought about that, but in all honesty, the original Futura is
    already available in many books, not to mention the web... I will though investigate
    the Gill Sans alternates (I think I saw some at the St Bride library).\r\n\r\nKent:
    I am planning to put some Dwiggins typefaces, I already have some material, but
    I would be glad if you have time to take some snapshots of the mentioned typefaces.
    From there, I will probably need some of your documentation, it surely fills some
    gaps I have in mine. Regarding Goudy's, I'm not sure how many of his undigitized
    works deserve to be in the book?\r\n\r\nNick: You're right, if it is easily available
    in a book that will be in the sources list, there's no point to mention it again
    in mine, that was always a \"rule\" I had in mind. Again, my book is not a \"swipe\"
    book, please write it down somewhere.\r\n\r\nJShen: I can't get a hold on the
    Thermo series, do you have a visual?\r\n\r\nWilliam: I am investigating the fonts
    by Van Krimpen, and decide what to do. Thanks for the heads-up.\r\n\r\nAgain thanks
    all.\r\ndr\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-03 10:30:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>my book is not a \u201Cswipe\u201D book</em>\r\n\r\n\"...to provide good
    quality, high resolution prints of them for the courageous designers who would
    have the good idea to digitize them...\" \r\n\r\nWhat's courageous about swiping
    someone else's design?"
  created: '2008-12-03 11:26:19'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > I would be glad if you have time to take some snapshots of the mentioned
    typefaces. From there, I will probably need some of your documentation, it surely
    fills some gaps I have in mine.</cite>\r\n\r\nDavid -- It would be more efficient
    for me to address any specific needs or desires you have, rather than a scatter
    shot of my library and research materials. If you tell me which you're including
    and wish to have more/better images or information about, I can tell you what
    I have. In addition to samples, I have some correspondence and documentation on
    most of what I listed. \r\n\r\n-- Kent."
  created: '2008-12-03 12:47:07'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Nick: it takes time and courage for a designer to spend a huge amount of
    time digitizing another artist's design in order to revive it, to dedicate one's
    skills to the art of someone else so that the typographic creation and the creator
    himself doesn't fall into oblivion. I will not put Dwiggins designs in the book
    and say \"this is my design\". I will say \"This is William Dwiggins design\"
    and I will explain as much as possible about it. And hopefully if a designer uses
    my book to revive one of these typefaces, he will do so with respect, as many
    designers did (some of them contributing to this very forum), never forgetting
    to mention the original creator. I don't see any \"swiping\", stealing, or disrespect
    in my project, but feel free to do so. \r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-12-03 14:19:19'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Kent: all I wanted to say is it's gonna be hard for me to tell you which
    ones I'm interested bout because I don't know them, this is why I was wondering
    if you could take a quick shot so that I can see what they look like, but I understand
    you won't have the time to do so; let me get the visuals of these types in some
    way, and I will come back to you with specific requests (it might take some time).\r\n\r\nFrom
    now on though, I think I will not be interested in Falcon, but I would love to
    have smt info and visuals about Arcadia and also about these 2 examples you produced
    in a previous discussion (http://typophile.com/node/41687), experimental 223 and
    this newspaper type... \r\n\r\nthanks a lot,\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-12-03 14:33:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I don''t know if this is mentioned above, but the "Robusto" bit of Oz Cooper
    lettering referred to inspired three different typefaces: [[http://www.galapagosdesign.com/original/maiand.htm|Miandara]],
    [[http://www.galapagosdesign.com/original/robusto.htm|Robusto]] and [[http://fontbureau.com/fonts/Fritz|Fritz]].  I
    like the last one best, but they are all good and interesting as different looking
    revivals of the same bit of lettering. '
  created: '2008-12-03 15:30:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I don\u2019t see any \u201Cswiping\u201D, stealing, or disrespect in
    my project, but feel free to do so.</em>\r\n\r\nDavid, I'm using the term \"swipe\"
    in a light-hearted manner, as per my local design book store:\r\nwww.swipe.com\r\n\r\nYou're
    not swiping, but are creating a book that other designers can \"get inspiration\"
    from.\r\nReally, any design book with a lot of pictures falls into that category,
    but those with images that invite scanning, particularly so.\r\n\r\n<em>it takes
    time and courage for a designer to spend a huge amount of time digitizing another
    artist\u2019s design in order to revive it, to dedicate one\u2019s skills to the
    art of someone else so that the typographic creation and the creator himself doesn\u2019t
    fall into oblivion.</em>\r\n\r\nBullshit. Sure, it takes time and effort to do
    a good job of digitizing an old face, but you're pouring it on a bit thick with
    the rescuing from oblivion malarkey. By providing high resolution images, you
    will be making it easy for hacks to do a quick and dirty job autotracing from
    second-hand material. Where's the nobility in that?\r\n\r\nHere's an idea: perhaps
    it is actually more daring to design a typeface of one's own.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-03 18:42:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "BTW, I'm sure your book will be fascinating and beautiful.\r\nI really enjoyed
    David Pankow's talk on Herman Ihlenburg at this year's TypeCon, lots of obscure
    exotica documented, so I would expect your project to be equally delightful.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-03 18:51:46'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Oh, sorry David. I didn't realize that you weren't familiar. Bad assumptions.
    You're right, you can't express interest if you don't know what I'm referring
    to. I don't think I read \"snapshot\" clearly. Sorry if I came off too brusque.
    I'll put together some things to post later.\r\n\r\nBTW, the most readily accessible
    compendium of WAD's types is the second volume of <cite>Postscripts on Dwiggins</cite>
    published by the Typophiles (the original group, not this here forum). It includes
    showings and information on all that I cited (except Experimental 267D, which
    is probably the most obscure of his \"completed\" experiments). Don't know how
    easy it would be for you to find a copy where you are.\r\n\r\nI'll get some images
    up later.\r\n\r\nBTW, the Exp 223 (from that other thread) is the same thing as
    Hingham (listed above). The other sample I posted in that other thread was just
    a drawing; no developed typeface ever came of it, so there's nothing to document
    in your book. (At least, I don't think you want to open the Pandora's box of experimental
    drawings and ideas for type that never became type.)\r\n\r\n-- Kent."
  created: '2008-12-03 19:17:42'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>Mark: it is a very good idea. I am already in search of such typefaces
    where the differences are important enough to call it a \u201Cdifferent\u201D
    type, found some but not all I\u2019m afraid. Do you have any specific examples
    in mind?</em>\r\n\r\nHere's one example. The top face is a sample of 72 pt. Bodoni
    foundry type (ATF) and the bottom face is the Linotype PostScript version scaled
    to match the size:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bodoni001_5370.jpg]\r\n\r\nAs
    you can see, the display cut (top) is more elegant and refined. Generally speaking,
    display cuts are less bold, narrower, spaced tighter, and have finer details.
    In some cases, the x-height will be lower as well."
  created: '2008-12-03 21:04:44'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Mark --\r\n\r\nThe foundry specimen books abound in examples like this. You
    can take just about any ATF face that's been digitized and make the same case
    regarding the limitations of today's one-size incarnations. ATF Garamond (Linotype
    Garamond No. 3) comes immediately to mind.\r\n\r\nYou could also take your particular
    example further back to Bodoni's <cite>Manuale Tipografico</cite> and find several
    more cases. I guess the question is Where does David want to draw the line?\r\n\r\n--
    K.\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-03 21:27:33'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Okay, here are visual references for the Dwiggins types I mentioned above.
    These images are not to any particular scale.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Charter_TgivingProcl_3536.gif]\r\n^
    <strong>Charter</strong>, from an unpublished trial setup using the Pilgrims'
    Thanksgiving Proclamation as text.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Hingham_Postscripts_4986.gif]\r\n^
    <strong>Hingham</strong>, from <cite>Postscripts on Dwiggins, Vol. Two,</cite>
    edited by Paul A. Bennett (New York: The Typophiles, 1960).\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Arcadia_AAKRandom_4951.gif]\r\n^
    <strong>Arcadia</strong>, from <cite>Some Random Recollections,</cite> by Alfred
    A. Knopf (New York: The Typophiles, 1949).\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Stuyvesant_ShirleyLetters_4570.gif]\r\n^
    <strong>Stuyvesant</strong>, from <cite>The Shirley Letters, from the California
    Mines, 1851&#150;1852</cite> (New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1949).\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Falcon_Postscripts_5244.gif]\r\n^
    <strong>Falcon</strong>, from <cite>Postscripts.</cite>\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Tippecanoe_Postscripts_5324.gif]\r\n^
    <strong>Tippecanoe</strong>, from <cite>Postscripts.</cite>\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Exp267D_Setup6_5414.gif]\r\n^
    <strong>Experimental 267D</strong>, from an unpublished setup proof.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-03 21:29:09'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>You could also take your particular example further back to Bodoni\u2019s
    Manuale Tipografico and find several more cases. </em>\r\n\r\nI don't think of
    historical faces as having been \"forgotten\" in the same way that certain faces
    that were taken for granted twenty or so years ago have just disappeared from
    the palette."
  created: '2008-12-03 21:59:12'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: Okay. Yes, I see your point.
  created: '2008-12-03 23:05:05'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Anybody notice the typo in the Charter eg  : ) It is the old proof reader
    in me.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-12-03 23:57:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Yes, that jumped right out at me!\r\n(threatned)"
  created: '2008-12-04 00:29:24'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "kentlew \r\n\r\nCan you post a HiRes of the Charter image? Its really nice
    and I would love to see it bettter detail...\r\n\r\nDavid R \r\n\r\nNot sure if
    this will help but some good info about William Addison Dwiggins experimental
    typefaces can be found [[http://www.typeculture.com/academic_resource/articles_essays/pdfs/tc_article_36.pdf|here]].\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-04 01:57:35'
- author:
    name: victor ivanov
    picture: 111726
  body: "wow! Charter has such a weird ampersand, love it!\r\nAnd falcon looks really
    interesting, would love to see it in print."
  created: '2008-12-04 03:15:21'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "I think Sibylle Hagmann has done a fabulous interpretation of that Charter
    shown above. \r\n\r\nShe called it \u201CUpright Italic\u201D in her Odile package.
    Very usable too.\r\n\r\nhttp://kontour.com/odile.htm\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-04 07:17:21'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Sibylle wrote an in-depth article about Dwiggins, Charter, and Odile for
    <cite>Typographische Monatsbl\xE4tter</cite> (Jan 2007, I believe). It includes
    many nice images. \r\n\r\nI suppose the existence of Sibylle's Odile basically
    removes Charter from the \"forgotten\" category.\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio, here's a closer
    look at the Charter alphabet. Sorry, not enough bandwidth here on my mountain
    for hi-res. \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Charter_alphabet_3768.gif]\r\nBut
    it's not my intention to turn this into yet another Dwiggins thread. So that's
    it. ;-)"
  created: '2008-12-04 14:06:08'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Mark & Kent: yes, these are fine examples, and I'm sure there are countless
    ones in this area. Now, regarding where I want to draw the line... I am still
    in the early stage of preparing the book, so for now, I don't know, honestly.
    I'm keeping an open mind. I'm going to gather as much info as I can, see where
    it's taking me, and after a month or so I will sit down and talk with my publisher
    and decide where is the boundary of the book.\r\n\r\nKent: from what I saw here
    and there, I think for now I will focus on Arcadia and Tippecanoe from WAD. Charter
    is wonderful, but Odille actually fills the gap.\r\n\r\nAntonio: Thanks for the
    heads-up.\r\n\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-12-04 14:34:54'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "<cite> Piccic: I thought about that, but in all honesty, the original Futura
    is already available in many books, not to mention the web... I will though investigate
    the Gill Sans alternates (I think I saw some at the St Bride library). </cite>\r\nYes,
    David, but I don't think there is a consistent version of Futura conveying its
    essence.\r\nPersonally, I don't like Futura so much, but there is too much that
    got lost in early digitizations (for Gill, that's infinitely multiplied). It all
    depends on where the focus of the book will be\u2026\r\n\r\n\r\nI do not agree
    with Nick when he says, after David's comment:\r\n<cite> it takes time and courage
    for a designer to spend a huge amount of time digitizing another artist\u2019s
    design in order to revive it, to dedicate one\u2019s skills to the art of someone
    else so that the typographic creation and the creator himself doesn\u2019t fall
    into oblivion. </cite>\r\n<strong> Bullshit. Sure, it takes time and effort to
    do a good job of digitizing an old face, but you\u2019re pouring it on a bit thick
    with the rescuing from oblivion malarkey. By providing high resolution images,
    you will be making it easy for hacks to do a quick and dirty job autotracing from
    second-hand material. Where\u2019s the nobility in that?\r\nHere\u2019s an idea:
    perhaps it is actually more daring to design a typeface of one\u2019s own. </strong>\r\n\r\n\"Bullshit\"
    un corno. It takes <cite>a lot </cite> of courage to take on one's shoulders the
    task of *properly* digitize a typeface, in order to get into its timeline spirit,
    the designer, to catch its essence and rework it for the present.\r\nIt may take
    a lot more courage than designing one's own typeface, since it requires one's
    own \"ego\" to be left apart in order to devote themselves to the work of another
    person.\r\nAt least, so it's always been for me. I've never been able to complete
    any re-production of lead types because it always seemed more attractive to work
    on original designs.\r\n\r\nSurely Nick is right when he says this makes life
    easier for superficial people hacking existing work, but it all depends on how
    David will plan and project his book.\r\nUnfortunately such things have always
    been, but if we keep worrying about this we'll be concentrating merely on potentially
    negative behaviors, not good ones\u2026"
  created: '2008-12-04 15:01:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I do not agree with Nick</em>\r\n\r\nBut Claudio, you DID!\r\n\r\nI called
    BS on David because his statement was neither true nor false, merely puffery.\r\nBoth
    you and I have observed that the process of reworking an older face can be anything
    from a laborious homage to a quickie knock-off.\r\n\r\n<em> it requires one\u2019s
    own \u201Cego\u201D to be left apart</em>\r\n\r\nOn the contrary, many redesigners
    don't have enough humility to stop themselves from \"improving\" upon the original. "
  created: '2008-12-04 17:59:58'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Nick> Didn\u2019t you refer to old material when making Scotch Roman?"
  created: '2008-12-04 18:10:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Yes.\r\nIn Scotch Modern I worked from original impressions of metal type,
    drawing the glyphs by eye, with no scanning or tracing.\r\nI didn't change the
    design of any of the letters. My intention was to make \"facsimile\" fonts, although
    in a different medium (digital-offset, rather than metal letterpress).\r\n\r\nFrom
    my perspective David's book would be useful if it encouraged redesigners to seek
    out the raw material which he has drawn their attention to, rather than just scan
    and autotrace from his reproductions."
  created: '2008-12-04 18:23:37'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Maybe we agree, it's just your frankness which may be misinterpreted, expressed
    with your vocabolary it may sound presumptuous. I know the problem very well,
    suffering from it\u2026 :=)\r\nBut I don't think David meant the book as a source
    for \"scanning and autotracing\". It seems more about important steps under the
    dust in the course of history, I hope. Although it seems not easy\u2026\r\n\r\nI
    don't like the term \"revival\" because to me it implies a sort of superfluous
    addition to an original.\r\nWhile this may be fine, the example of Odile is fitting.
    I think Sybille Hagman reworked the original forms of Dwiggins enough to make
    the whole typeface her own.\r\nFor the same reason I think Dwiggins Charter deserves
    a good digital version. It's radically different from Odile, I would never use
    them for the same purpose."
  created: '2008-12-04 19:24:03'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Nick>>>\r\n\r\n<em>From my perspective David\u2019s book would be useful
    if it encouraged redesigners to seek out the raw material which he has drawn their
    attention to, rather than just scan and autotrace from his reproductions.</em>\r\n\r\nFine.
    Let\u2019s give him and the people who read the book the benefit of the doubt.
    I would like to think genuine artists out number hacks/swipes considerably. Hopefully
    this book won\u2019t get placed in the Dover section of your Swipe bookstore ;-)\r\n\r\nBTW...
    you\u2019ve done a nice job with Scotch Roman. Sax covers similar material, but
    it does not have your nice italics.\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/urw/sax/\r\n\r\nMikey
    :-)"
  created: '2008-12-04 21:12:43'
- author:
    name: Sal_Randazzo
    picture: 128377
  body: "Hello,\r\n\r\nHow about showing Haas Unica type family?\r\nIt is unavailable
    commercially but is one of my favorite san serifs.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nSal\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-04 23:14:47'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "York by Georg Salden\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/19943\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-05 00:25:05'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Hello everyone,\r\n\r\nFirst of all, about the book: I of course do not intend
    even one second to create a book only for hackers to scan/trace the outlines and
    put it on the Internet. I will state very clearly in the text that the purpose,
    in the case of a designer wanting to revive the designs, is to give enough visual
    material for them work hard in order to give the digital recreation the level
    of excellency it deserves. Now, I sure hope it will be the case, but I don't really
    have the power or control over all of the people who are going to buy the book.
    If some of them are going to make a quick scan, that's a pity, but it shouldn't,
    in my point of view, stop me from making the book. I am aware that the comparison
    is not the best one, but it would be like not releasing any DVD anymore because
    some hackers will turn them into Divx and share them with the world for free in
    a lower resolution. Just as I read above, negative thinking only brings negativity.
    All I want is to put some light on great designs and great designers which are
    now known and available only to the happy few who have the old and costly specimen
    books in their shelves to the wide audience, free for them to do what they want
    with it as long as, and again it will be stated very clearly in the book, they
    respect the ethics and eventually copyrights of the material shown.\r\n\r\nSome
    may still think I'm a bad guy, I feel sorry for them, I hope one day they will
    understand how candidly good are my intentions, and how hopefully good will be
    the outcome of this book.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-12-05 08:27:06'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "David, there's to say that if you wish to properly address the idea of a
    conscious digital version, a good deal of samples for each typeface should be
    there. This, besides the difficulty in gathering it, reduces considerably the
    possible number of typefaces included, but it also forces the readers to a degree
    of awareness making it almost impossible to consider \"autotracing\". When you
    provide two or three lead samples of optical sizes, it would be difficult for
    a hacker to proceed: first he will have to see why there were optical versions
    in the first place\u2026 Of course, he still can go on and produce his dreadful
    toy-face, but he will have something to reflect upon\u2026\r\n\r\nSo, I think
    you have two options:\r\n1) Provide just a basic showing in order to present more
    typefaces: this way, with an adequate presentation, the designers intrigued by
    the value of the originals, will be invited to start a serious search of original
    printed samples.\r\n2) Have less typefaces presented, but presented with a great
    deal of samples, to allow a serious digital version. I think this proves difficult,
    as it took me years to gather extensive printed samples of Nebiolo typefaces (lead
    type used to wear out, so the best thing are the original specimens\u2026)\r\n\r\nAn
    example: [[http://www.abebooks.com/servlet/BookDetailsPL?bi=620608798&searchurl=bi%3D0%26bx%3Doff%26ds%3D30%26kn%3Dbehrens%2Bantiqua%26sortby%3D2%26sts%3Dt%26x%3D78%26y%3D12%26yrh%3D1960|Behrens
    Antiqua]]'s original specimen from 1908, on Abebooks.\r\nOf course, the price
    it's quite a madness, I hope cheaper copies can be found\u2026\r\nI paid most
    of the Nebiolo specimens I bought a price between 15 and 30 Euros. Of course there
    are sellers which offer them at ten times these prices, but it's the rarity of
    this material which makes  its acquisition problematic."
  created: '2008-12-05 14:02:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Some may still think I\u2019m a bad guy, I feel sorry for them,</em>\r\n\r\nDavid,
    I have never questioned your motives, so please, spare me your pity.\r\nPerhaps
    you will find this discussion of typographic swipe books in the digital era useful
    in developing your project; whether or not you follow Claudio's thoughtful suggestions.\r\n\r\nAny
    foundry type specimen may be considered as swipe material; Johnston, in <em>Alphabets
    to Order</em> theorizes that one reason for using \"quousque tandem abutere...\"
    as specimen text was the limited alphabetic showing it offered copyists.\r\n\r\nNo
    doubt \"swipe\" is too loaded a word--a rejoinder to your somewhat inflated view
    of what you're doing, that is hopefully no longer required--so in future I'll
    refer to the genre as \"source book\", after the dust jacket blurb of <em>Treasury
    of Alphabets and Lettering</em> (Omega, 1985) by Jan Tschichold, no less:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Tschi_6050.jpg]\r\n.\r\nDuring
    the 1950s and 1960s, many source books were published, such as <em>Art Directors'
    Book of Type Faces</em> by J.I. Biegelsen (Arco, 1963)--which enabled the letters
    to be photostatted (to piece together headlines), used as models for lettering
    artists, or to be traced by art directors for making marker-rendered comps:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Egmont_3895.jpg]\r\n\r\nBoth
    the above are thoughtfully provided at around A4/8.5\" x 11\" size, for ease of
    copying.\r\n\r\nRecently, <em>Alphabets and Other Signs</em> and its sequel are
    good examples of \"quality\" source books."
  created: '2008-12-05 18:00:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/LeChampleve_6034.png]\r\nLe Champlev\xE9,
    a Deberny et Peignot face licensed by Stephenson & Blake.\r\nThis from 1937."
  created: '2008-12-19 19:16:36'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: "Paganini by Alessandro Butti I haven't found in a digital form yet. There
    is a PDF which has a sample of it:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.klingspor-museum.de/KlingsporKuenstler/Schriftdesigner/Butti/AButti.pdf"
  created: '2008-12-19 21:19:55'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'That''s really delightful, Nick. '
  created: '2008-12-19 21:30:50'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "<cite> Paganini by Alessandro Butti I haven\u2019t found in a digital form
    yet. </cite>\r\n\r\nA properly done digital version would be an infernal task
    to undertake.\r\nBut, again, \"properly done\" would be the only way to do it,
    considered its delicacy\u2026\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-19 22:07:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Petite_5379.png]'
  created: '2008-12-19 22:18:00'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Metalfoot: thanks for the input, I'll look into it.\r\n\r\nNick: this is
    indeed a very beautiful typeface. Thank you for the heads-up.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-12-20 08:13:12'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "David, if and whenever the approach to the book will be more defined, let
    us know.\r\nThere may be some Italian face which no one will ever digitize that
    could prove good to show."
  created: '2008-12-24 18:07:56'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "piccic: you may let me know about this typeface right now, for I am still
    in the process of finding fonts worth speaking of.\r\n\r\nyou can send me an email
    if you want: davidrault (a) gmail.com\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-12-25 08:18:38'
- author:
    name: Celeste
    picture: 111293
  body: "Joseph Blumenthal\u2019s Monotype Emerson (1930\u201335)"
  created: '2008-12-25 15:39:30'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Emerson has been digitally revived by distinguished book designer & typographer
    Jerry Kelly. I'm pretty sure Kelly was a student and friend of Blumenthal's, so
    he's eminently qualified to have done this revival. Fonts can be licensed from
    www.nonpareiltype.com.\r\n\r\n-- Kent."
  created: '2008-12-25 17:13:12'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "@David: Did you set yourself a deadline? Problem is there are some, but I
    would like to see part of them properly digitized, and I began working on one
    family myself, and the plan would maybe to do more, as my friend Antonio comes
    back from Reading next year.\r\nAn example could be the aforementioned Paganini,
    although I do not have a full specimen.\r\n\r\nI would like to know if you have
    already developed a guiding idea in one or the other direction I mentioned, however.
    Nick's remarks may sound a little \"rude\" (LOL) but he's basically right about
    the need of giving to such a book a decisive direction.\r\n\r\nIf there is a thing
    that I deprecate are things done in an \"anything goes\" way, and most of what
    we see in Italy right now is in that vein\u2026\r\n\r\n@EDIT: Kent, thanks for
    the link. The forms of his unreleased \"Inscripta\" are quite related to my interests,
    I'd like to see more of it\u2026"
  created: '2008-12-25 22:51:06'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Piccic: Nick was right about a lot of subjects, even if he clearly doesn't
    know how to express it in a nice way :-)\r\n\r\nMy plan for now is to show a few
    typefaces (not more than 20, at most), but to document them and their authors
    as much as possible. For example, I will include the fonts designed by Jean Alessandrini
    in the seventies, very beautiful and poetic, which have never been digitized so
    far and are quite impossible to see and use; and for this, I actually called Alessandrini
    3 weeks ago, and he's delighted to give me any help I need (he fortunately kept
    all his original drawings, documents...). I think this is the best way to make
    this book. Now, all I hope is to be able to find good documents about the fonts
    I plan to expose: visuals, of course, but also information on the author and the
    foundry.\r\n\r\nI hope it's a little bit more clear now,\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-12-26 08:55:50'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Hmm\u2026 I think we may choose Paganini, by Raffaello Bertieri and Alessandro
    Butti, which was released starting in 1926. Although I do not have a specific
    original specimen about it, with Antonio we keep collecting material about the
    history of Nebiolo, Italian typography of 1900 in general, and Raffaello Bertieri
    and his work.\r\nDo you mind if I ask Antonio prior to this? We are doing this
    research together and right now he's here in Modena for the Christmas holidays."
  created: '2008-12-26 09:02:26'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Piccic: of course, no hurry.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-12-27 07:54:51'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Forgotten typefaces not yet mentioned in this thread:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/fontdocs/index.html#DIETHELM"
  created: '2008-12-28 05:51:14'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "For other specimens of Erbar Grotesk see\r\n\r\nhttp://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jakob_Erbar"
  created: '2008-12-28 06:26:50'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "William\r\n\r\nRichard Beatty Designs released a \"Cancellaresca Bastarda\"
    many many years ago as Romulus Bastarda. Ten fonts total. \r\n\r\nSomewhat of
    an alternative to David's quest might be, which digital fonts have been forgotten
    (and even lost) either because of format changes, market disinterest, or the current
    politics of the profession.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2008-12-28 07:36:43'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: I would definitely include Erbar, if you find material. There is no decent
    digital version, and Erbar is great.
  created: '2008-12-28 14:32:51'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: .
  created: '2011-10-31 04:52:15'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I had recalled, from discussions here, a couple of \"forgotten\" types which
    don't meet the criterion of this thread, since there were digital versions of
    them: Emerson, already mentioned, is one; and Barbou another.\r\n\r\nI'm in favor
    of having high-resolution reproductions of the faces in the book, simply because
    otherwise they may be difficult and expensive to find. Even people carefully redrawing
    the face, not just those quickly scanning a version, would find a high-resolution
    scan helpful.\r\n\r\n<em>But</em>, since (as I do agree) the needs of those doing
    the faces properly <strong>are</strong> more important than those of those just
    doing poor-quality scanned versions, I would like to give this recommendation:
    don't just include a high-resolution image of the typefaces derived from a specimen
    at a large point size; if specimens at smaller point sizes, especially typical
    text sizes (8, 9, 10 points) are available, include those! <em>That</em> is what
    will <em>really</em> be needed by someone wanting to do any of these older typefaces
    justice."
  created: '2011-11-02 16:32:05'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Hello everyone,\r\n\r\nThis rather old thread came back up, so I thought
    I'd drop a line.\r\n\r\nMy initial project was to tricky to handle, so it turned
    into making a big book about Roger Excoffon, which I did. It was released in may
    2011, and is available in a bilingual edition, french and english (translation
    provided by Hrant Papazian). You may check it here: http://www.adverbum.fr/roger-excoffon-rault-david-atelier-perrousseaux_ouvrage-perrousseaux_4itkob6k386b.html\r\n\r\nI
    actually gave a lecture at the Rencontres de Lure last august; maybe some of you
    were there. I just released (as a collection director) a monography of Fran\xE7ois
    Boltana, written by Frank Adebiaye and Suzanne Cardinal, and I am currently working
    on a monography of Jean Alessandrini, a forgotten and talented typographer. It
    is due for 2012.\r\n\r\nI didn't totally gave up my project for this book, but
    it's not my priority anymore. I just wanted to thank again all the people who
    gave me ideas and informations in this thread.\r\n\r\nDavid Rault"
  created: '2011-11-03 09:17:06'
date: '2008-12-02 14:50:36'
node_type: forum
title: 'Preparing a book about forgotten typefaces: help needed'

---
