---
author:
  name: Lasse Kristensen
body: "Hi typophiles.\r\n\r\nI am doing a school project on bad shop signage, and
  that is a huge area, since almost every shop sign is terribly designed (At least
  i southeast London where I live).\r\n\r\nI have been collection research material
  in the form of photographs of several hundreds of signs, which I have analyze.\r\nI
  have created a list of certain errors that are often seen in shop signs. I have
  my own thoughts on why the errors are errors, but I am sure that you guys know so
  much more about typography than me. \r\n\r\nThe list is as follows:\r\n\r\nUse of
  capital letters only\r\n\r\nUse of 2 or more contrasting colors - Red, blue, green,
  yellow\r\n\r\nWarping effects - you know those wavy effects etc.\r\n\r\nUse of clipart\r\n\r\nUse
  of shadow effect, outline/stroke effect, and diagonal effects\r\n\r\nCompressed
  texts\r\n\r\nSeveral typefaces\r\n\r\nWrong letter spacing/word spacing\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nMaybe
  you can contribute to an explanation of why these errors are actual errors. I know
  the obvious reasons but maybe \r\nyou guys have a different take on it? I am waiting
  in excitement :-)"
comments:
- author:
    name: Lasse Kristensen
  body: If you want to see photos of signs, here is the link http://flickr.com/photos/32480523@N02/sets/72157609709927694/
  created: '2008-12-03 16:17:29'
- author:
    name: brockfrench
    picture: 113153
  body: I think if you could find out who put the sign up, who designed it, and you
    were able to look into their practice and or design education, you would probably
    fin that these signs weren't made by designers at all...
  created: '2008-12-03 16:50:59'
- author:
    name: Lasse Kristensen
  body: I think you're right about that. I talked to a "proper" sign maker who told
    me, most sign makers are just sign makers and not sign designers. It's all about
    getting money from the client and they really don't think about the quality of
    the sign.
  created: '2008-12-03 17:07:17'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I don\u2019t see many examples in your photos, but what\u2019s really been
    bugging me lately are designers who think they\u2019re doing a great job by using
    a really great book face for signage. A book face that works at ten points looks
    as chunky as Cooper Black when it\u2019s three feet tall. Anyway\u2026\r\n\r\n<em>Use
    of capital letters only</em>\r\n\r\nNot necessarily bad if the type is well-chosen
    and tracked appropriately. Unfortunately most signshops use the blackest faces
    around and track them like it\u2019s 1979.\r\n\r\n<em>Use of 2 or more contrasting
    colors - Red, blue, green, yellow</em>\r\n\r\nThis one tends to look really tacky
    because the intense colors call attention to cheap materials and poor workmanship.\r\n\r\n<em>Warping
    effects\u2026Use of clipart\u2026effects</em>\r\n\r\nBlatant evidence of cutting
    corners. Why pay someone to think when the letters can wave with a mouseclick?\r\n\r\n<em>Compressed
    texts</em>\r\n\r\nBad because they\u2019re always used in all caps and set too
    tight, turning them into a block of vertical lines.\r\n\r\n<em>Several typefaces</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    is another trick used to cut corners. Don\u2019t be creative, just let the fonts
    do the work!\r\n\r\n<em>Wrong letter spacing/word spacing</em>\r\n\r\nImpairs
    readability and looks like someone wasn\u2019t really thinking about the work.\r\n\r\nAnd
    as for who makes the signs, just watch job listings for these positions. You\u2019ll
    see plenty of software experience requirements, and none even ask for a strong
    portfolio."
  created: '2008-12-03 17:22:26'
- author:
    name: Lasse Kristensen
  body: "Thank you James, that was exactly the kind of feedback I was hoping to get
    :-) I appreciate your help.\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-03 17:38:50'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: Don't forget massive grammar failure. The use of straight keyboard marks instead
    of proper apostrophes and quotation marks is bad design, but it is compounded
    when those marks shouldn't be there at all.
  created: '2008-12-03 17:59:53'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Something else I probably should have brought up: seriously consider the
    possibility that some shop owners and signmakers know that their signs are crap,
    and make them that way on purpose. In a working-class neighborhood putting up
    a great sign might make a business seem haughty or expensive. Similar things happen
    in advertising: rock bands pay designers to give them the \u201Dauthentic\u201D
    look of the indie music scene, government contractors and discount stores demand
    that their advertising look cheap to convince people that the money is really
    being spent elsewhere, etc.. You might try asking shop owners if they\u2019re
    just trying to fit in."
  created: '2008-12-03 18:03:39'
- author:
    name: solfeggio
    picture: 112465
  body: "<em>You might try asking shop owners if they\u2019re just trying to fit in.</em>\r\n\r\nBut
    be sure to don a goalie mask first, lest you catch a solid poke in the nose. ;)"
  created: '2008-12-03 18:31:17'
- author:
    name: Lasse Kristensen
  body: So it's like an evil design circle almost :-) One make a bad design and the
    other people follow to fit in
  created: '2008-12-03 19:15:36'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I sometimes suspect that signmaker's who use apostrophe's in their plural's
    get paid by the character.
  created: '2008-12-03 19:35:15'
- author:
    name: agostini
    picture: 111280
  body: "I agree with James.\r\nSame here in good old New Zealand (well some of the
    places anyway).\r\nIt's also called the Tall Poppy Syndrome -\r\ntry to stand
    out and you get cut off\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tall_poppy_syndrome\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-03 20:22:46'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I sometimes suspect that signmaker\u2019s who use apostrophe\u2019s
    in their plural\u2019s get paid by the character.</cite>\r\n\r\nThey probably
    just went to the same crummy public schools that I did. "
  created: '2008-12-03 20:55:17'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Hermann Zapf wrote an essay about this. One of his points, I remember, is
    that most shop signs are just too big. '
  created: '2008-12-03 21:59:26'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>One of his points, I remember, is that most shop signs are just too
    big.</cite>\r\n\r\nVery true. People try using size to make signs readable at
    distance, but forget that in urban environments people seeing a sign from far
    away are often at a sharp angle and cannot read it anyway."
  created: '2008-12-03 22:10:51'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Once upon a time... Not to wax too nostalgic on how it was \"always better
    in the old days\", but Once upon a time signs were made by people who had trained
    for many years to learn the skills of painting signs, and when they weren't designed
    by the sign painters themselves, they were designed by professional designers.
    There was no other way, unless you were going to make the sign yourself. Then
    along came desktop publishing and vinyl plotters,and anyone who could afford the
    equipment could become a \"sign maker.\" people with absolutely no graphics background
    at all could get work by charging less than they guy down the street who knew
    what he was doing. \r\n\r\n@ james: Graphic design is communcation. A Crazy \"Joe's
    Discount Carpet\" sign is going to look different from an up-scale Presian rug
    store's sign, and if Crazy Joe's sign is a little loud and crass, that would be
    appropriate,, and wouldn't necessarily entail bad or artless design. "
  created: '2008-12-04 02:19:16'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "William\r\n\r\nCan you please site this essay by Hermann. Thank you.\r\n\r\n@
    James... I doubt that those signmakers paid any more attention in those lousy
    public schools than you or I did : ) I did not start \"paying attention\" until
    I found letters!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-12-04 02:44:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '[[http://www.amazon.com/Hermann-Zapf-design-Philosophy-Bibliographical/dp/B000WW4H5U/ref=sr_1_11?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1228363014&sr=8-11|This
    book]], I think. I had it from a library and it is since returned so I can''t
    be sure. '
  created: '2008-12-04 03:59:08'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Thought I remembered it.. less about size of the companies and more about
    \"design illiterates\" (his words) as is the case in much of the DTP. Finish your
    Caslon and let them hack it to death on signs : )\r\n\r\nI am more concerned with
    the new illiterate individual \"sign franchise owner\" than the established \"houses\"
    of ANY size!\r\n\r\nEdit: design challenged may be better than illiterate! And
    boy am I dumb... I thought you guys were saying the shops were too big. Are you
    in fact saying the signs are too big? I am confused... let me read again.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-12-04 04:21:35'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Yes guys, I read your posts wrong and he does speak of restricting proportion.
    I am duly self admonished. A bit of dyslexia involved, I saw sign shops instead
    of shop signs.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-12-04 04:36:38'
- author:
    name: dinazina
    picture: 113020
  body: "Here's an example for ya...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sane-tech_3753.jpg]\r\nWhy
    would a computer store would use a calligraphy font and brush script (shudder)?
    The owners were Asian foreigners; I'm guessing the signmaker created this using
    his own taste, and they thought it looked slick. They've since gone out of business.
    \r\n\r\nI guess it is slick compared to this, in the same neighborhood:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/trift_5424.jpg]\r\nObviously
    this poor guy had NO money for a sign. \r\nHe's gone out of business, too.  \r\n\r\nNow
    this one really is slick for White Center (the same hood for which I am trying
    to design a logo for their summer festival, asking for feedback in another design
    thread). I can't decide if I hate this, but it does seem to attract the target
    audience - this is a popular raucous nightclub.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/evolucion_3893.jpg]\r\n
    \r\nAnd here's a special treat, something I photographed last Christmas. The owner
    created a quaint, nostalgic Christmas display in the window of his \"adult superstore.\"
    I knew \r\nno one would believe this without the photo as evidence.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/xxnativity_3705.jpg] "
  created: '2008-12-05 05:01:48'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: "mcdonalds at the orange county (CA) airport\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/styx_5228.jpg]"
  created: '2008-12-05 07:11:08'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: "<cite>over-extended ligature</cite>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/100_1684_5394.jpg]"
  created: '2008-12-05 08:04:57'
- author:
    name: Matthew Lujan
    picture: 116280
  body: "@beejay\r\nHa! Zen Buffet. I always laugh when passing this place and seeing
    that awful swipe."
  created: '2008-12-05 08:22:28'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: "<cite> letter omission </cite>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/100_1818_3599.jpg]"
  created: '2008-12-05 08:23:21'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: "<cite> (left) mixing serif and sans indiscriminately </cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>
    (right) poor font choice :/ </cite>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/100_1670_6238.jpg]"
  created: '2008-12-05 08:33:19'
- author:
    name: matttyson
  body: "Hi \r\n\r\nYour project sounds like areally good one to work on and with
    so many awful signs out there, you have the subject matter to make it great.\r\n\r\nI'm
    sure that much of the horror we see in our streets is a result of signage not
    being in anyones budget, resulting in 'expensive' designers being cut out of the
    equation ( a false economy).\r\n\r\nMany signwriters I've come into contact with
    just don't have any care for the personality, or era a font has come from, resulting
    in horrible clashes of typefaces seen in the examples above. If I were you, I'd
    grab a copy of 'The Elements of Typographic Style' by Robert Bringhurst. This
    has some brilliant advice on matching fonts and will allow you to critique the
    BAD signage.\r\n\r\nAs with logo design, there should always be clearspace around
    the lettering of your signage. In my experience, this is what can make even a
    fairly good sign look awful. The examples above illustrate this perfectly, with
    the signs being cropped just inches after the type. Everything is cramped and
    probably due to the fact that if they've paid for something that size, they want
    something on every square cm! Again a false economy.  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-05 11:05:11'
- author:
    name: matttyson
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Head_5812.jpg]\r\nAs you can see, this
    shop appears to sell heads, or some sort of personal service. It is very poorly
    letterspaced, in a font that won't be legible at distance and with the type far
    too close to the edge of the sign.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Bad
    sign_5081.jpg]\r\nThis sign is cramped also, with none of the typography conforming
    to any sort of grid. Poor hierarchy and placement take the viewers eye to the
    centre first, then to the left and down. 'Stationery' is spelled incorrectly,
    unless they mean that their fancy goods and bedding literally stand still. This
    becomes a good selling point if it is true.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Funny_4319.jpg]\r\nI
    don't think that I need to point out why this amuses me. Again, there is not enough
    room around the type. In my opinion this affects legibility a lot.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Chinese
    sign_6408.jpg]\r\nAnother amusing one - this undersells itself quite a bit. Quite
    an odd font choice for this one I think. Again the clear space around the font
    is lacking and letterspacing on f  o   o  d    is horrible. Colourchoice also
    is rather odd for a Chinese Takeaway. The yellow makes it look awful.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Sign_5947.jpg]\r\nI
    actually quite like this one. The slab serif gives the feel of the wild west.
    There has been a lot in the media about the stray apostrophe in signage and here
    is one of the little blighters in DVDs.\r\n\r\nPair up a good designer with an
    architect and bad signage would be a thing of the past. I must admit that without
    pointing out all of the bad signage on my days out, I would have no reason to
    leave the house.\r\n\r\nI hope some of this helps you on your project and good
    luck with it.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-05 11:44:29'
- author:
    name: jayyy
    picture: 109661
  body: "<cite>consider the possibility that some shop owners and signmakers know
    that their signs are crap, and make them that way on purpose.</cite>\r\n\r\nJames,
    I really hope this is not true. Bad signage is something that bothers me every
    day. I find it really irritating that sign shops make such crap daily that they
    know will be in public view for many years. As a customer of a sign shop the very
    least you should expect is good typography and grammar. Unfortunately, the average
    customer lacks all of these skills and buys solely on price.\r\n\r\nWhat is the
    answer? "
  created: '2008-12-05 19:48:33'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "\u201CUnfortunately, the average customer lacks all of these skills and buys
    solely on price.\r\n\r\nWhat is the answer?\u201D\r\n\r\nZoning regulations. When
    I was in Alaska I went through Ketchikan, a Klondike gold-rush era town turned
    tourist trap. Zoning laws require all signage to be hand\u2014painted in historically
    accurate styles. It sounds cheesy, but it looked a hell of a lot better than  many
    contemporary urban streets. I\u2019ve been through a town with similar requirements
    in West Virginia\u2014as soon as you drive into the city limits everything, even
    the porno store, has a sign that looks like something John Downer painted. \r\n\r\nIf
    stick on letters, backlit plastic, and vinyl banners were all banned it would
    dramatically enhance the aesthetics of our world. "
  created: '2008-12-05 21:08:25'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "What if the customer wants top design and wants to pay 10 bucks for the whole
    thing? (60\"x100\")... I remember back when there was one guy in town with a compugraphic
    worth hundreds of thousand$. Working was joy. \r\n\r\nNow, anybody got a epson
    and a Coreu. Is to shot oneself ...\r\n\r\n\u201CProgress\u201D..."
  created: '2008-12-05 21:30:48'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Some good examples here:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/20998\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-05 23:19:38'
- author:
    name: dinazina
    picture: 113020
  body: "James, what you wrote reminded me of this, the most beautiful CPA sign I've
    ever seen. It was on Lopez Island in Puget Sound. \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hawley-nicholson-sign-s_5937.jpg]"
  created: '2008-12-05 23:56:29'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "... <cite>If stick on letters, backlit plastic, and vinyl banners were all
    banned it would dramatically enhance the aesthetics of our world.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhoa!
    Good luck with that one. those are the bread an butter of the sign induatry. Actually,stick
    on letters, backlit plastic, and vinyl banners <b>are</b> the sign industry now.
    \ :o)\r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-12-06 03:14:40'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "I used to have a little sign biz. My clients were all small business owners.
    Some not <i>so</i> small. Almost all of them had a difficult time getting their
    head around the idea that the design work I did was something they needed to pay
    for. \r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-12-06 03:25:30'
- author:
    name: Brian_
    picture: 110618
  body: "Are we saying that signage is not much different from any other rules in
    design? If so, why focus on signage? So, just a suggestion and depending on how
    long this writeup is supposed to be, you might want to focus on how signage is
    DIFFERENT from the rest of design rules. If they aren't, then maybe just talk
    about which design relationships are most important. Distance is a major factor
    - how does that affect how the designer thinks differently about a sign project
    versus a brochure project?\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-06 18:53:11'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "There are different rules to designing signs, and yes, size and spacing relative
    to intended viewing distance and speed is among the considerations, and usually
    the most significant factor, but:\r\n\r\nThere are also often arbitrary restrictions
    on size and style imposed by local ordinances.\r\n\r\nSometimes, the design is
    limited by the space available in an existing frame that might have fit the name
    of the original business well but is an awkward proportion for a new tenant, as
    demonstrated in some of the examples already shown.\r\n\r\nThere is also a tendency
    of clients to demand too much information be included on a sign (also demonstrated
    above).\r\nHow much information can and should be in a sign is related to its
    size and placement. A small sign on a door can have much more information than
    a large sign at the roof line, since it is meant to be read by someone walking
    up close to it rather than be noticed and identified by someone driving by."
  created: '2008-12-06 20:59:04'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Are we saying that signage is not much different from any other rules
    in design?<cite>\r\n\r\nTo a certain extent, I think so. The basic principles
    of design apply to signs just like everything else.\r\n\r\n<cite>If so, why focus
    on signage?</cite>\r\n\r\nBecause so much of it is just abominably bad. And because
    when an abominable sign goes up, people get stuck looking at it. There\u2019s
    really no reason for me to care about the poor design in, say, a magazine about
    pro-wrestling, because I\u2019ll never see it anyway. But I think many people
    get sick of otherwise gorgeous old urban neighborhoods covered with signs that
    look like the work of a myopic, colorblind, illiterate lunatic."
  created: '2008-12-06 21:24:38'
- author:
    name: nithrandur
  body: "What makes bad signage bad? There are many variables, including the fundamentals
    of design, rules of typography, etc, but it also depends on the people. What is
    aesthetically pleasing to one may not be to another. Additionally, this variance
    applies to different cultures as well.\r\n\r\nFor example, in my country, what
    is aesthetically pleasing for the traditional mindset is that negative space should
    be filled. Obviously, this is an eyesore, as there is not enough space for the
    letterforms to breathe. Case in point, the Philippines didn't have a typographic
    history like the west had, and was colonized before it could even develop its
    own national identity, thus restricting any native cultural developments. However,
    since the colonizer was a European country, Spain, there was an influence of western
    aesthetics. But the treatment of Spaniards towards Filipinos was very condescending,
    and thus they generally would not teach Filipinos what they know in typography
    and design, so the Filipinos would resort to imitating their colonizer, which
    is actually a quite bad way to learn, if left unguided. Thus, different views
    and takes on typography and design emerged in the Filipinos' consciousness, which
    would lead and shape the current design aesthetics we have today.\r\n\r\nThen,
    there's the Americans, but this post would become too long and I think you get
    the point. If any of you guys find this offensive, I'm sorry. I was just citing
    history and trying to speculate how a culture's take on design came to be.\r\n\r\nThe
    shaping of good signage (or design, generally) might first depend on the culture
    that shaped and continuously shapes it. Through this, though, we encounter contradictions
    with the purpose of communication on some levels, like typography (illegible,
    overstuffed signs, etc), but what the people find aesthetically pleasing might
    be contradictory to foreign eyes. Even if cognitive psychology comes in and discovers
    which is good signage or bad, it is the people's cultural preference that might
    come first.\r\n\r\nI know that some of you are thinking that there is a union:
    a marriage of cultural differences and design concepts backed by psychology, history,
    and tradition which need not contradict, which lies in good, well-researched design.
    And indeed there is."
  created: '2008-12-07 05:08:51'
- author:
    name: Charles Leonard
    picture: 111392
  body: "Reference your image IMG_8100, O'Crea's Cash & Carry. The letters are ok
    on the awning, even with--maybe because of the vertical rhythm of--the rectangular
    primes instead of typographically correct apostrophes.\r\nSo two expressions of
    a single idea. Signs are not typography. Formally they are the visual distribution,
    patterns, of shapes, some of which may be letters and numerals. Such signs involving
    letters and other standardized symbols representing language, work between two
    extremes; the largest number of ideas within the smallest possible space vs. the
    single idea in the largest possible space. Letters possess \"shapeness\" and \"symbolness\"--here
    I wish I wrote in German. When many ideas are presented in the smallest possible
    space, then attention to the graphic properties of the shapes must give way to
    the visual rules of writing, instead of exploiting the grammar of shape, attribute,
    and context.\r\nSeen from a typo-aesthetic point of view, the problem  with such
    signs as you have shown is the over abundance of \"shapeness\" and not enough
    attention to the niceties of polite visual discourse. From a socio-economic perspective,
    that of the proprietors, the visual form of the signs is determined by the desperation/aspiration
    by which they are driven. The need of the proprietors to survive and succeed doesn't
    allow them the luxury of aesthetic detachment. As Albertine Gaur says, \"If all
    writing is information storage, then all writing is of equal value. Each society
    stores the information essential to its survival \u2026. If a form of information
    storage fulfils its purpose as far as a particular society is concerned then it
    is (for this particular society) 'proper' writing.\" "
  created: '2008-12-07 14:59:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: One important issue that hasn't been brought up, and I think that Zapf's point
    about the size of signs relates to, is the relation of the signs to the architecture
    and the 'streetscape'. Here in the US, you often have signs each trying to be
    bigger than the other, and the overall effect is chaotic and ugly. That is what
    argues for regulation on size, materials, etc. But how to do this best is something
    I don't know. It would be very interesting to see the effect of different regulations
    on different streetscapes. Perhaps there are books about this.
  created: '2008-12-07 15:21:59'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "Even taking the client out of the equation, sign design is different from
    any other type of design. There are limits imposed by factors unrelated to any
    other graphic form. Time (the time it takes the viewer to understand your message
    verses the time it takes for them to pass your sign and no longer care) and distance
    (does the whole sign turn into an artistic blur from any distance) are factors.
    The worst negative design factors are clutter, a lack of negative space, too much
    info and incorrect font choices. Proper typography is important, but only insofar
    as it relates to getting the message across.\r\n\r\nAs for all signs being made
    by true sign writers (these artists are not the same as sign painters), it might
    work in Alaska, probably not anywhere else. And, please, save me from the deathly
    combination of an architect and a designer. Batman never faced such villains as
    this dastardly duo.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-08 02:09:55'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "I only read about halfway through this thread, so sorry if anyone has touched
    on this already. \r\n\r\nI went in for a job interview with a sign maker who'd
    been in the business for many years who \"hated the corporate design world\".
    He informed me that he, as general practice on billboards and signs would purposely
    insert typos so that it would attract more attention.\r\n\r\npenn"
  created: '2008-12-08 06:07:49'
- author:
    name: Brian_
    picture: 110618
  body: "Another aspect is that many shop signs must function during day and night.
    The project might address how different kinds of lighting (i.e. warm, soft lighting
    vs. neon) give different impressions of a company. In that sense, certain types
    of lighting could be \"errors\".\r\n\r\nDurability in various weather conditions
    and over time, how colors reflect and change over time of day, dimensionality..
    lots of factors are fairly unique to store sign design and could be addressed,
    although those are more on the construction side of design...something designers
    often lose touch with by looking at a monitor.\r\n\r\npenn, you reminded me of
    a billboard I saw over thanksgiving holiday. It had a few sentences (!) and I
    have no idea what it was about, but the one part I caught was, \"It's not to late
    to educate.\" I wanted to go back and read the rest to see if it was on purpose,
    but the next u-turn/exit was several miles away."
  created: '2008-12-09 03:21:08'
date: '2008-12-03 16:13:23'
node_type: forum
title: Bad shop signage - but what makes it bad?

---
