---
author:
  name: omar
body: "hi folks,\r\n\r\ni have a litl question regarding a problem i'm having in fontlab.
  i'm still in the process of figuring out the progr. so bare with me on this one\r\n\r\nI'm
  working on some characters and kind of did the basic form of the letters in illustrator
  without adding to much detail, i placed all the characters i had in fontlab and
  started fine tuning them in fontlab, since i imported the letters from illustrator
  they were in very small size so after fine tuning i scaled the letters to match
  the x-height.. but after scaling i noticed that all of the proportions of the letters
  where slightly changed, for example the stems are different in size, bowls are slightly
  different, i had the bowl of letters like d, p in the same curve now they are different
  from each other...\r\n\r\ni liked to know what it is that i'm doing wrong.\r\n\r\nthis
  is how i scaled them:\r\n\r\nplaced all letters next to each other and selected
  all of them than this box appears around the selected letters , place my cursor
  at the corner of the box hold down shift and scale till i get to the wanted x-heith.\r\n\r\nall
  help is very much appreciated\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I suspect the problem is that FontLab \"snaps\" BCPs onto a nominal 1000-unit
    grid.\r\nSo if you have something that imports into FontLab very small, the BCPs
    will snap onto the grid at integers within the 1000 units, whereas more accurately
    they would be at fractions of the grid.\r\nFor instance, a BCP point that should
    be 223.4, 17.6 would snap to 223, 18.\r\nSo you have to find a way to import the
    paths at a larger scale.\r\nAlternatively, as all the font pros will tell you,
    create your glyphs in Fontlab from the very beginning."
  created: '2008-12-05 05:30:50'
- author:
    name: omar
  body: "thank you for you're reaction Nick,\r\n\r\nmaybe one more small question\r\n\r\nsay
    if you would size a character up that was created in fontlab would one still get
    the same problem?\r\n\r\nand if i understand correctly i should just redo/check
    every letter?...but how do you figure out witch node is slightly changed, the
    letter \"d\" for instance, is it the outer curve node or the inner curve node
    in comparison to the stem, since some stems still have the same size than others
    and some are a bit smaller in width some a bit wider...\r\n\r\noh well you live
    and learn...\r\n\r\nthnx Nick"
  created: '2008-12-05 06:12:33'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "You're discovering the difference between beziers in fonts vs in illustrator.
    Illustrator uses decimal values for coordinates on the art board, while fonts
    use integer values on the em square. The em square is pretty course as a result.
    Eg, say you have a square that is 3 em units wide. You scale it up 150%. Illustrator
    mentality says it is now 4.5emu. But fonts don't use decimals, so Fontlab rounds
    up to 5emu.\r\n\r\nWhen you try to draw a circle it's even worse! The following
    illustrates drawing a \"circle\" using the circle tool in fontlab (I added the
    pink em grid). The first is 1 emu in diameter, the next 2 emu, 3, 4, 5 etc. You
    can see the limitations of the coarse em square in this brutal example, and how
    scaling will introduce distortion. There's no way around it. But its a font issue,
    not a Fontlab issue.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/em_coarse_4163.gif]\r\n\r\nHowever,
    it's not so bad. You'll generally not draw shapes 3emu in size! It does become
    a pain for ultra hairline fonts (you'll also want to keep an eye on symmetrical
    objects as they will not be if they're an odd emu width). This is one of the main
    reasons I gave up on drawing fonts in illustrator even though I love it as a drawing
    tool. I've learned to appreciate and become proficient FL too. Somtimes it's an
    advantage to be able to quickly say \"yes those handles are the same length.\"
    Tricky in illustrator. Now if FL would *borrow* AI's pathfinder and smart guides..
    that would be fantastic.\r\n\r\nGood luck!"
  created: '2008-12-05 06:16:07'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Please remember that by default settings, 1 pt in an EPS drawing (Illustrator
    file) corresponds to 1 font unit in FontLab Studio. So to get a glyph that is
    700 units high in the font, you need to draw it 700 pt high in Illustrator. If
    you've drawn yours smaller, scale them up accordingly in Illustrator before bringing
    them over to FontLab Studio. The FontLab Studio manual has an entire section about
    using Illustrator to draw fonts, I recommend taking a look. \r\n\r\nBTW, it is
    not a limitation of FontLab Studio per se. It is the limitation of the digital
    font formats: they can only use integer coordinates. In Fontographer, we have
    code that supports fractional coordinates but the designer needs to explicitly
    snap the points to integers or the application will do that for him while generating
    the font. We agree that during the design process, non-integer coordinates are
    an advantage because you can losslessly scale down and up while drawing. So our
    goal is to have fractional coordinates support in FontLab Studio 7 (but not yet
    in version 6 which is planned for 2009). \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam Twardoch\r\nFontlab
    Ltd.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-05 06:25:53'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "<em>say if you would size a character up that was created in fontlab would
    one still get the same problem?</em>\r\n\r\nSort of. \r\n\r\nThe inconsistency
    when importing from illustrator happens on import. You can import two identical
    shapes from different locations on the Illustrator art board and they can have
    different node placement in FL.\r\n\r\nOnce inside fontlab, it consistently rounds
    (distorts). So two identical shapes, scaled identically will be identically distorted.
    Fontlab will always try to best-fit a scaled object to the em square. If you scale
    again it will best fit the distorted shape in a distorted way, further distorting.\r\n\r\nAgain,
    small scale amplifies the distortion. To show this, I'll take a circle and scale
    it 115% in succession. First a 6emu circle, 60emu:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/circlescale_small_5924.gif]\r\nWow,
    that first scale was a doozy. Then FL does a decent job of approximating.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/circlescale_large_4504.gif]\r\nAt
    larger size, the distortion is hardly noticable. But if you look, our circle started
    symmetrical, but isn't throughout. <strong>Bottom line: If you import from AI
    or scale something in FL, check it closely.</strong>"
  created: '2008-12-05 07:00:52'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Thanks for the 1pt = 1fontunit tip.\r\n\r\nAdam, I like the idea of being
    able to scale without loss, but I'd want to be able to toggle the real/integer/font
    version of the outlines on the fly. Eg if you're making a hairline font, waiting
    till export to see the shifting would be bad. Thanks for your efforts on this!"
  created: '2008-12-05 07:11:40'
- author:
    name: omar
  body: "hey guys,\r\n\r\nthanx for taking the time to explain, appreciate it."
  created: '2008-12-05 16:19:47'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I don't import from Illustrator to FontLab much anymore, but it would be nice
    if we could have options other than 1 emunit = 1 pt in Illustrator, mainly because
    it requires that each glyph in Illustrator takes up about a whole page. If you
    have dozens or hundreds of glyphs, things get pretty cumbersome. (Of course, if
    you use ScanFont to import Illustrator art, it doesn't matter what size you draw
    the glyphs in Illustrator, making all this irrelevant.)
  created: '2008-12-05 16:51:49'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Mark, \r\n\r\n720 pt is just 10 inches or roughly 25 cm, so indeed, you're
    usually drawing your letters so that one would fit onto a regular sheet of paper.
    But you can create arbitrarily sized pages in Illustrator, can't you? I just created
    a 20,000x10,000 pt artboard in Illustrator without problems (which can fit in
    200 glyphs at least). I believe the limitation of PDF size is actually in miles
    :) Also, in Illustrator CS4, you can have multiple artboards (i.e. pages). \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-06 03:48:14'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: True, but I recall running into a pasteboard size limitation a couple of years
    ago when moving art from Illustrator to FontLab. I was helping another designer
    make a font. All the glyphs were arranged horizontally. Maybe the limitations
    have changed. Anyway, between working mainly in FontLab and using ScanFont when
    the need arises, it's not that big a deal to me.
  created: '2008-12-06 05:21:59'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">BTW, it is not a limitation of FontLab Studio per se. It is the limitation
    of the digital font formats: they can only use integer coordinates.\r\n\r\nAdam,
    I thought David Lemon had established that, at least if using Adobe tools, it
    was possible to generate fonts with floating point coordinates and it was possible
    with some RIPs to rasterize them successfully. It may not be recommended practice,
    but as far as I know, it is inaccurate to say that integer coordinates are a limitation
    of the font formats.\r\n\r\n>So our goal is to have fractional coordinates support
    in FontLab Studio 7 (but not yet in version 6 which is planned for 2009).\r\n\r\nWhy
    the wait? Why force designers to have another five years of lousy data and bad
    transformations? \r\n\r\nMoreover, you don't address the issue of floating point
    bcps, which Fontlab cannot do, but which have been present in PostScript for decades,
    including countless fonts made by \xC4dobe. Because of this embarrassing deficiency
    in Fontlab, Fontlab cannot accurately open or edit thousands of fonts created
    by Adobe, by other foundries, and by Fontographer 4+. \r\nTo say that Fontlab
    cannot accurately open or edit these fonts is perhaps to use language that is
    too weak. On the contrary. \r\n\r\nFontlab introduces glaring errors into these
    fonts. \r\n\r\nFrankly, Adam, I think the time to fix this problem is today, this
    month, in Fontlab 5. This isn't a small defect. It is a large, glaring defect."
  created: '2008-12-10 15:12:09'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "I've found myself drawing more in both FontLab and FreeHand at the same time
    (I do not use Illustrator).\r\nThis came out as I realized the limits of boths.
    When I design, I need to be free to compare forms, assign different colors, work
    on single parts, do blendings, etc.\r\n\r\nTo avoid the problem underlined by
    Mark, I tried which size worked best for me, and then I use a percent value to
    scale down glyphs as I copy them in FreeHand, and another to scale them up before
    copying them back to the glyph cell in FontLab.\r\nI did not notice any distortion,
    as long as the copied glyph respects the size needed in FontLab.\r\nHowever, this
    works better if the initial glyph design fine-tuning is done in FontLab (to check
    stem width consistency, etc.). Afterwards, there are no problems."
  created: '2008-12-10 19:00:25'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Bill, \r\n\r\ncan you point me to some fonts with non-integer BCP coordinates,
    and show where the inaccuracies are particularly visible? \r\n\r\n> Frankly, Adam,
    I think the time to fix this problem \r\n> is today, this month, in Fontlab 5.
    This isn\u2019t a small \r\n> defect. It is a large, glaring defect.\r\n\r\nIndeed,
    and given the size of the defect, I'm sure you'll understand that it is not a
    thing you can change overnight. \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-18 11:47:27'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Adam, could you tell when version 6 will be available?\r\nI have had problems
    in trying to update to the latest version (an error), I am still using v5.0.1
    and it has some bugs\u2026"
  created: '2008-12-18 14:25:10'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Bill wrote:<cite>Adam, I thought David Lemon had established that, at least
    if using Adobe tools, it was possible to generate fonts with floating point coordinates
    and it was possible with some RIPs to rasterize them successfully. It may not
    be recommended practice, but as far as I know, it is inaccurate to say that integer
    coordinates are a limitation of the font formats.</cite>\r\n\r\nBill is correct
    in principle. However, this potential has been *very* little used. \r\n\r\nPersonally
    I would not trust the reliability of a font that used this functionality. Or put
    another way, I'd bet real money (even in my newly self-employed state) that at
    least some consumers of fonts have assumed integer coordinates and will behave
    badly when confronted by something else. Which consumers, and how badly, would
    need to be determined by extensive testing.\r\n\r\nI should also note that in
    a Type 1 or CFF charstring there are (at least?) two ways to represent added accuracy
    in coordinates. The obvious one is to use decimal points directly. The less obvious
    one, which I gather some of Adobe's engineers would favor, is to use a \"div\"
    operator in the charstring. So instead of \"10.2\" in the charstring you'd have
    \"102 10 div\". And no, I can't tell you why this would be preferable.  :)\r\n\r\nAdam
    wrote: <cite>So our goal is to have fractional coordinates support in FontLab
    Studio 7 (but not yet in version 6 which is planned for 2009).</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    take it this is only for internal use within FontLab?\r\n\r\nBill asked: <cite>Why
    the wait? Why force designers to have another five years of lousy data and bad
    transformations?</cite>\r\n\r\nWell, for the reasons I mentioned above, introducing
    it into *output* fonts (Type 1 or CFF) is rather risky and should be carefully
    tested and approached with caution.\r\n\r\nChanging assumptions in FontLab internals
    is not so risky, exactly, but is likely to be a pretty pervasive issue throughout
    an awful lot of code, not just a switch they throw in one spot. Seems to me it's
    kind of like switching an application from single-byte text handling to Unicode.\r\n\r\n<cite>Moreover,
    you don\u2019t address the issue of floating point bcps, which Fontlab cannot
    do, but which have been present in PostScript for decades, including countless
    fonts made by Adobe.</cite>\r\n\r\nReally? I don't recall ever running into an
    Adobe made Type 1 or OpenType CFF font that used floating point coordinates for
    either off-curve or on-curve points. I'll admit that I don't usually spend a *lot*
    of time directly poking the charstrings, but I did look at quite a few in my >11
    years at Adobe. When I talked to David about this whole question last, he certainly
    didn't bring it up.\r\n\r\nAll that said, I'd love to see an option for FLS to
    use floating point or at least a few decimal places for coordinates internally.
    That would be a good thing.\r\n\r\nEqually or more important, though, would be
    using hinting information to achieve intelligent scaling. As long as the final
    output fonts have anything less than floating point coordinates, inconsistencies
    are introduced not only by scaling, but even by MM interpolation. Two stems that
    are the same thickness in all masters of an MM may end up different in generated
    instances, due to rounding issues. Intelligent scaling applies hinting information
    to ensure that hinted distances are maintained during scaling, and during interpolation/extrapolation,
    including instance generation.\r\n\r\nMust go now - crying baby.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-21 01:17:20'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'Adam, Thomas, re Adobe fonts w/floating point bcps, I instanced the first
    one I looked at (one of the Poetica fonts) in an earlier thread in this forum.
    I''ll look up some more. Because Fontlab always rounds up, a bcp which happens
    to be, say, 100.1, 200.1, would be rounded to 101, 201, and that would show as
    a serious distortion. Such imports do not <i>often</i> create a visible problem,
    but they do frequently enough for it to be a serious concern that anyone who has
    such data must consider very carefully, as it requires minute re-evaluation of
    the imported fonts. That means anyone who has imported a Fog4-created font into
    Fontlab. It means a lot of Adobe fonts, and it means a lot of other commercial
    fonts. I wonder what the IK-derived tools do? '
  created: '2008-12-21 17:27:30'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Thomas, lots of floating point bcps in Poetica (300, 301), some in Guardi
    italic bold (251), a few in Cheltenham Ultra Cond Italic (174). OK. Adobe font
    no. 1. Palatino italic. Point 2 in the inner curve is 130,338, with bcps of 152.83,398.06
    and 106.83,227.06. So I guess the question is not when Adobe started using floating
    point bcps, but when or if it stopped? \r\n\r\nWhere is it most likely to be a
    visible problem when working in Fontlab? Where all four values have decimal places
    in the +.1 or +.2 range and all four are rounded up by Fontlab nearly a whole
    unit when it opens them. Regardless: Fontlab does not and can not import these
    Adobe fonts properly.\r\n\r\nSo, that leads to a terrible question indeed: have
    all the Adobe OT fonts been through Fontlab workflow? If so, they are <I>not</I>
    the fonts they were in T1. \r\n\r\nAlso, just happened to notice duplicate point
    in dot of i, lower right hand corner, in helv comp no. 50? Or is that a fog artefact?
    \r\n\r\nEver your friendly quality control engineer! B"
  created: '2008-12-21 22:56:27'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'What other libraries might be affected by this problem? At the very least,
    any library that uses either Fontographer 4+ or the Adobe tools. (Certainly every
    piece of data I ever got back from Adobe had floating point bcps intact and, for
    the record, I was told that my data were superior <i>before</i> being subjected
    to the Bezlab treatment.) I just had a look at MetaPlus italic in its late-90s
    incarnation (obviously the problem will be most prominent in italics) and that
    certainly has floating point bcps (see a, with plenty of .1''s). So that''s the
    whole of the classic FontFont library, not to mention Emigre, DTL (which presumably
    has an IK workflow), etc. etc. Bitstream, with its own tools, too, is affected:
    try Galliard italic.'
  created: '2008-12-22 18:10:36'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: Everything here presented while keeping in mind that Fontlab may be capable
    of preserving some floating point data without being able either to display or
    edit it. If that were the case, you could import a font with floating point data,
    and OT-ify the font without, potentially, rounding up the floating point values.
    We don't know when or if this can happen.
  created: '2008-12-22 18:15:30'
- author:
    name: brianlawler
    picture: 111328
  body: "When scaling letters that I have drawn in Illustrator, I have found that
    creating an Action in Illustrator saves some trouble.\r\n\r\nI select the letter
    in Illustrator, then activate my Action, which copies it to a blank document in
    Illustrator, positions it to 0,0 coordinates, then enlarges it to 700 pts. tall,
    then cuts it to the clipboard.\r\n\r\nAll of that takes about 0.5 sec. and it's
    ready to paste at the correct size into FontLab. The Actions in Illustrator CS4
    are a little wacky (they don't always behave the same way) but they still save
    you a lot of time when you are copying and pasting 240 glyphs from Illustrator
    to FontLab.\r\n\r\n\r\nBrian P. Lawler\r\nTypographic Insomniac"
  created: '2009-01-10 07:59:13'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Heh, great.\r\nI do the same in FreeHand, just manually, but it takes a pair
    of seconds, not more, and no distortion at all (except the one mentioned by Bill
    Troop, due to the em grid \"coarseness\", but just if the details are very very
    small, many or delicate)."
  created: '2009-01-10 11:56:17'
- author:
    name: Dr jack
    picture: 115796
  body: "piccic...\r\nYou're bringing a tear to my eye mentioning FreeHand. \r\nOh,
    the good old days. lol.\r\nI wish FreeHand, or even CorelDraw had of taken over
    the world instead.\r\n(Though I do love P/Shop, the weight of the ill-informed,
    made Illustrator number 1)\r\n\r\nAs Twardoch mentions...\"Also, in Illustrator
    CS4, you can have multiple artboards (i.e. pages)\".\r\nOh Wow! Multiple ArtBoards...what
    a progression! Who thought that up? Hmmm...\r\nBack to the Future, Illustrator.\r\n'Separations
    Preview'.\r\n'Viewing only the clipped area of your objects during editing'.\r\n\r\nThe
    'innovations' are endless...\r\n\r\nAll Hail piccic!!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-10 15:12:16'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "I'm not entirely against Illustrator.\r\nIt's just that the two programs
    never did the same thing, and now that Freehand seems dead there is no single
    true drawing program for graphic design.\r\n\r\nThey should not have turned programs
    into mimics of other programs, the result is that we had useless competition and
    remain without a true drawing program and not a program to do illustration or
    pictures.\r\n\r\nBesides, I have not even started to complain about the lack of
    good quality autotracing\u2026\r\nIt seems that the only software handling it
    good (Tracer) has disappeared\u2026"
  created: '2009-01-11 12:40:23'
- author:
    name: Dr jack
    picture: 115796
  body: "Piccic,\r\nMy issue with Illustrator, and I have used these Apps long term,
    CorelDraw, Macromedia FreeHand (when it was Macromedia) and Illustrator, is that
    while other companies were coming up with unique interfaces, tools, work arounds
    and effects, because of the ever growing weight of the numbers of users using
    Illustrator, Adobe sat back and did not push the boundaries as hard as their smaller
    competitors.\r\n\r\nYears ago everyone was 'borrowing' the best from everyone
    else. Text based programs where initiating the use of graphics and graphical interfaces
    and effects and some of the Graphics programs were smart enough to offer the reverse
    cross over. Photoshop was doing wonderful things. Illustrator looked and felt
    like a kids paintbox program. FreeHand & even CorelDraw was years ahead in how
    the programs ran and felt. They treated the Graphic Designer like a professional.\r\n\r\nIllustrator
    and its creators could have easily grabbed 'pop out & hide away' menus that freed
    up the professional straight from CorelDraw, multiple page layouts from FreeHand
    or even QuarkXpress. How long did it take those at Adobe to see what others were
    doing?\r\nSurely, they had people who knew people, that were proficient it a few
    Vector Apps? \r\n\r\nIllustrator was always going to be the powerhouse they are
    today.\r\nIt's just a pity they were so blind to what the rest of the world was
    capable of earlier than them.\r\n\r\nAnd I disagree with you about programs mimicking
    other programs.\r\nAll the great Apps, Operating Systems & Companies would not
    be around today without one of their competitors pushing the boundaries in an
    area they had not thought of.\r\nUtilizing what comes before you, also makes for
    better, more rounded Apps. \r\nYou cannot discover or create in a vacuum.\r\n\r\nCheers\r\n\r\n(And
    sorry to the rest for getting off the topic)"
  created: '2009-01-17 10:08:21'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Maybe we could start a topic about this\u2026\r\nI've been a user of FreeHand
    since version 2.02, although I started with Illustrator 88.\r\nIllustrator was
    still a good software, but I realized I would have needed the precision of Freehand
    for graphic design."
  created: '2009-01-17 11:48:32'
- author:
    name: Dr jack
    picture: 115796
  body: "I've worked in many places over the years and some wanted me to use this
    software or another software. It was great for me because it allowed me to grind
    out every day on various Graphic Apps. Like using both Pc and Macs. So I'm long
    over being a zealot for one side or another. But Freehand was set up years ago
    like a professional would want to use it. CorelDraw came in leaps and bounds and
    started to look and work great. But Illustrator took so long to steal the best
    bits from other programs.\r\nPhotoshop was leading edge. Illustrator 'thought'
    they were leading edge.\r\n\r\nNowadays I'll use anything that does the job, and
    appreciate that people have their favorites. But I hate people who bag Apps or
    other people's computers(like the Mac V Pc thing) if they haven't tried it.\r\n\r\nHaving
    said that, as I'm a newbie to Font Design, what is stopping Font Apps from talking
    seamlessly with Vector Graphic Programs? I mean, without jumping through hoops,
    Font programs should bend, adjust, tailor their Apps to have NO problems when
    talking with Vector Graphic Programs.\r\n\r\nVector Principles have been more
    widely used in the graphics industry well before Font Design vectorization came
    in, so we don't need a whole new 'nodes/paths' system or handling procedure...work
    with what we've got already. Newbies who are proficient in Illustrator come straight
    from there to a Font program, and soon realize this or that can't be done in their
    Fonts program. This is wrong. Who thought the wheel needed to be re-invented?\r\n\r\nIf
    I created a Font App tomorrow it would be so closely related to Illustrator (and
    I don't mean infringing on any copyright issues) that you would think my Font
    App was an Illustrator plug-in. That's what designers need. Illustrator doesn't
    generate font files*, so Font Programs should at least learn from those who've
    specialized in Vectorization of shapes long before them and do as they do.\r\n\r\nAs
    one famous (possibly deluded) person once said...\"Why can't we all just get along!\"\r\n\r\nCheers\r\n\r\n(*There's
    a thought Adobe...Font Apps don't want to be like you, so how about you whipping
    up a Font Creation App?...lol) "
  created: '2009-01-17 12:49:05'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Adobe has no interest in owning a font creation application. It's just too
    small a niche market. Instead they support the smaller developers making such
    apps by licensing code at no charge....\r\n\r\n(Heck, Adobe doesn't even have
    a font management app, because *that's* too small a market!)\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-01-17 19:16:56'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Or maybe Adobe has become too big?\r\nFlowers\u2026 :=)"
  created: '2009-01-17 20:36:47'
- author:
    name: Dr jack
    picture: 115796
  body: "Come on Thomas...create a market ;-)\r\n\r\nFind a designer who hasn't sat
    down in front of Illustrator in their first years and who hasn't said to himself
    while looking at their Font List, \"I'd love to create my own fonts\".\r\n\r\nHalf
    the battle is trying to get/find/stumble upon how Fonts are made to start with.\r\nYou
    need a row of crumbs and Indiana Jones just to get near font creation.\r\n\r\nDo
    something for the Designer in all of us.\r\nTo heck with the market size. Grow
    it!\r\n\r\nAdobe FontShape CS5 (instores Spring 2010)\r\n\r\n;-D"
  created: '2009-01-18 01:05:38'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Having said that, as I\u2019m a newbie to Font Design, what is stopping
    Font Apps from talking seamlessly with Vector Graphic Programs?</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    problem isn\u2019t Fontlab. Fontlab does exactly what it should\u2014provide an
    environment for creating fonts that will work right when designers send them to
    a press. It\u2019s that Illustrator users are too lazy to consider that with fonts,
    like every other job one does with Illustrator, putting some effort into setup
    is required to make the final output useful. \r\n\r\nOne doesn\u2019t just open
    Illustrator and build a CD label; the file has to be customized to make this work.
    The page size needs to be setup. The color space has to be picked. Grids and guides
    need to be created. The same is true with fonts. It would be nice for Adobe to
    include a design template for fonts, but I suspect that the same lazy people who
    get pissed off when their designs don\u2019t work instantly in Fontlab because
    they never bothered to read the relevant section of the excellent Fontlab manua,
    which Fontlab provides as a searchable PDF."
  created: '2009-01-18 01:51:32'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Dr Jack, I'm afraid I don't work at Adobe any more. But even when I did,
    there was no way in heck I could have made an idea like this fly. I certainly
    considered it, and I was willing to fight some battles I knew I'd probably lose...
    but there was no point in fighting a battle I knew with nearly absolute certainty
    I'd lose. Better to spend that time and energy on something that had a chance.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-18 10:12:25'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "I am not so fond with neither FontLab interface (too cluttered) nor the manual
    (not so focused), but I agree with James Puckett. People often complain about
    software because they don't take the time to learn it. FontLab does even too much,
    being a type design program. The rest is outline editing and drwaing, you can
    use as much tools as you wish.\r\n\r\nWhat I was complaining about is just the
    single decision to suppress the only graphic design program offering solid behaviour,
    that was FreeHand. I'm still doing things in FreeHand I could never be able to
    do in Illustrator, and I would update my Illustrator license instantly if Adobe
    revived FreeHand.\r\nIn this situation: no way. Should FreeHand be definitely
    buried, I will look for something else, not Illustrator, which is quite useless
    to me in its present state: uselessly heavy, handling tasks I do not need at all,
    without even the possibility of a simple usage of \"layers\" without recurring
    to absurd \"runarounds\"\u2026 Heavy, slow, costly and buggy, with plenty of features
    I do not need to actually draw."
  created: '2009-01-19 13:57:52'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"It would be nice for Adobe to include a design template for fonts... \"\r\n\r\nDone
    long ago. In addition, Adobe created an applet that gathered the files (letters),
    and befonted them. As I recall, Illustrator was a by-product of that ancient effort.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-01-19 17:41:36'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "I have no idea what you all are talking about.\r\nI am a FL type designer
    for years and never had problems with either scaling or importing curves in to
    FL.\r\n\r\nI draw my fonts either in CorelDraw9 or directly in fonlab.\r\n\r\nwith
    fonts i draw in CorelDraw here is waht i do;\r\nFirst I make a document X=1000,
    Y=110 mm\r\nAn AI has a limitation of one meter any thing larger results in distortion.\r\n\r\n\r\nI
    scal the font to fit in this height.\r\nNow here is the trick.\r\nMake a box 1000X210
    mm around the letters;\r\nimport the intire box in to FL and scal it al at once
    so the letter  Sit on the BaseLine Ant fit to your X-Height.\r\n\r\nNow erase
    the outer box counter and copy each letter to its glyph/\r\n\r\nSet equal width
    to al glyphs+option of center.\r\nthen set left=XXX Righ=XXX to what ever your
    starting point of spacing the letter.\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-21 02:07:10'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "oh, one mor thing\r\nallways choose porportion scale \r\nnot\r\nH=90\r\nV=90\r\n\r\nBut
    \r\nproportional scale 90 "
  created: '2009-01-21 02:09:26'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "billtroop, if you're still reading this thread ...\r\n\r\nYou wrote:\r\n\r\n<em>I
    just had a look at MetaPlus italic in its late-90s incarnation (obviously the
    problem will be most prominent in italics) and that certainly has floating point
    bcps (see a, with plenty of .1\u2019s).</em>\r\n\r\nAre you sure these floating
    point values are actually in the font files? Where did you see them? In Fontographer,
    I suppose?\r\n\r\nI tried looking at the raw PS code of MetaPlus-Italic using
    <a href=\"http://www.lcdf.org/type/t1disasm.1.html\">t1disasm</a> and saw nothing
    but integers. (Can't say how reliable t1disasm is.)"
  created: '2009-01-21 10:51:49'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Hi Jens, yes, still here, patiently waiting for you to show up. \r\n\r\nI
    viewed these floating points in Fontographer 4 and 5. I imagine some of the IK
    tools must also allow this? What they would look like in disassembled code I have
    no idea, but I imagine that they are the result of a division operator or some
    other indirect mechanism like that. Unless, of course, they simply reveal a colossal
    and hitherto unreported bug extant in Fog for over a decade. For the time being,
    I am operating on the assumption that Fontographer's reading is correct. \r\n\r\nI
    reluctantly becoming convinced that Fontlab's inability to perform floating point
    arithmetic either in scaling or in multiple master manipulation is a serious obstacle
    to high quality font production. At the very least, the rounding-off mechanism
    should be revised so that round-off errors below x.5 are rounded off to the next
    lower integer, rather than the current, crude system, whereby even the smallest
    fraction is rounded off to the next higher integer. However, that would only slightly
    mitigate, rather than solve the problem. I think Fontlab should go fully floating
    point immediately, and I think it should be either a free or low-cost upgrade.
    I don't think the company should work on anything else until this problem has
    been solved. \r\n\r\nNearly everyone uses Fontlab to create mulitple master families
    which are then generated as single instance fonts for sale. But considerable manipulation
    goes on before that point, and Fontlab's gross rounding off errors create an enormous
    amount of unnecessary work.\r\n\r\nWe need, too, to know more about how and when
    floating point BCPs are rasterized. I am inclined to think they <em>are</em> rasterized,
    but I don't <em>know</em>.\r\n\r\nOne thing is certain: no align to grid or other
    rounding-off command in Fog will change the non-integer nature of non-integer
    BCPs. (To the extent, obviously, that they are accurately reported.) \r\n\r\nWhen
    developing a MM, you have only to make a few transformations before the round-off
    errors pile up to create gross distortions. That isn't what we pay computers to
    do! \r\n\r\nNo to mention which: we also, as I warned earlier, need to know how
    safely we can import pre-Fontlab fonts into Fontlab. And if we should do so at
    all.\r\n\r\nThe absence of comment from heavy hitters reveals either that they
    have been caught with their pants down or I have. Which is it? Obviously, one
    hopes it is the latter. Don't worry. I can take the embarrassment! But can they? "
  created: '2009-01-21 14:15:08'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Sorry to interrupt the interesting talk, but\u2026\r\n\r\n<cite> As I recall,
    Illustrator was a by-product of that ancient effort. </cite>\r\n\r\nHuh? David,
    if I recall correctly Illustrator started as a black & white drawing program;
    color was added while developing the graphic novel by Mike Saenz \"Iron Man: Crash\",
    so you must be addressing some mysterious pre-history around 1986-87, right?\r\nDo
    you have any source? Very curious about that\u2026"
  created: '2009-01-21 18:39:32'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "Hi Bill,\r\n\r\nI've looked at the a of <em>Meta Plus Normal Italic</em>
    again in Fontographer 4.1 and with t1disasm. Now I think I've been able to see
    what you mean.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mpni-a_6391.gif]\r\n\r\nThe
    distance of the yellow BCP to the previous point is displayed as -65.9,-67.1 by
    Fontographer. However, if I dump the raw PS code with t1disasm, the corresponding
    line of the Charstring for a reads:\r\n\r\n<code>-66 -67 -38 -114 0 -98 rrcurveto</code>\r\n\r\n(the
    first two numbers being the x and y distance of the BCP from the previous point).\r\n\r\nIf
    what Fog displays was correct, it would have to be\r\n\r\n<code>-659 10 div -671
    10 div -38 -114 0 -98 rrcurveto</code>\r\n\r\nAs further evidence, if I build
    a Type1 font from the first version (the one without the divs), Fog again displays
    the fractional values.\r\n\r\nSo I really think <em>Fontographer</em> is doing
    something strange there, and I'm glad the FontFont library isn't broken :)\r\n\r\nJens"
  created: '2009-01-22 12:19:32'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'Fascinating. As an aside, you can take an outline in Fog 4/5, and copy it
    to the background. If, in the background, you go in and manually round off floating
    point BCPs, differences between foreground and outline will be visible at high
    zoom levels. So Fog is aware of a difference and is able to rasterize that difference.
    But how does it come about in the first place? Is either of the curves valid?
    How would the two different outlines be generated? How would transform operations
    affect them? '
  created: '2009-01-22 16:12:59'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "It certainly looks as if Fontographer is doing something weird/wrong: interpreting
    integer Charstring entries as non integers. Question: is Fontographer trying to
    assign an integer length to the BCP distance from the previous point, i.e. not
    as an x,y offset but as a direct distance? That would be truly weird, but it would
    explain non integer positions for the BCP.\r\n\r\n<em>Is either of the curves
    valid?</em>\r\n\r\nIn the case of an opened font, the curve that corresponds to
    the PS Charstring values would be correct. In the case of a newly created font,
    the curve that corresponds to how the PS Charstring value will be written is correct.
    If you want to know what Fontographer does when it generates a font from a source
    that includes fractional BCP positions, generate a font and then dump the PS code."
  created: '2009-01-22 16:50:38'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Do you know how hard it is to keep three points collinear on a non-orthogonal
    line through any kind of any transformation or interpretation with or without
    hints?  If it hurts, don't do it, as the doctor will tell you.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-01-22 23:03:51'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "David, you missed my quesion\u2026 ;=)"
  created: '2009-01-23 12:41:23'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "For comparing PostScript Type1 fonts perhaps the new 2.0 version of <em>DTL
    CompareMaster Light</em> (<a href=\"http://www.fonttools.org/downloads/CPMA/CPMA_Light_200_MAC.zip\">Mac
    OS X download</a>) (<a href=\"http://www.fonttools.org/downloads/CPMA/CPMA_Light_200_WIN.zip\">Windows
    download</a>) might be useful.\r\n\r\nThe full version of CPMA 2.0 compares OpenType
    CFF fonts either with each other or with PS Type1 fonts."
  created: '2009-01-23 12:41:37'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...mysterious pre-history around 1986-87, right?\"\r\n\r\nSorry, assuming
    mysterious pre-history is a relative term, yes. Adobe had a peculiar notion of
    ownership of data via tools so, no, I don't have any of their software.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-01-23 14:33:11'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "The idea that FOG is doing something screwy with the point values would make
    sense of my and Bill's differing experiences in spelunking Adobe fonts. I was
    occasionally looking through unencrypted Type 1 data, without any real translation
    layer involved, and never saw a decimal point or a div instruction in a charstring.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-01-24 19:45:27'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">and never saw a decimal point or a div instruction in a charstring\r\n\r\nWell
    Thomas, I must accept that as the definitive word here as to pre-existing fonts,
    particularly Adobe's. But that still leaves many questions: what on earth has
    Fog been doing all these years, and why hasn't anyone done anything about it or
    even noticed it? When, if ever, is there any validity in Fog's decimal BCPs? (And
    of course most important of all, when, if ever, will PostScript be fully floating
    point? Could that be potential for a possible Level 4?) "
  created: '2009-02-04 22:54:47'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Bill, most of those questions I'd have to say \"I haven't the slightest idea.\"\r\n\r\nBut
    to the last questions on PostScript... the PostScript language is already \"fully
    floating point.\" As with any language, there are limits to floating point accuracy.
    In the case of PostScript, these are based on the particular device implementation.
    Most 32-bit architectures running PostScript use single byte accuracy (often referred
    to as just \"single\"), meaning that they can handle approximately 8 significant
    digits of accuracy.\r\n\r\nDoubtless somebody will disagree with me, but I think
    8 digits of floating point accuracy is probably sufficient for almost all fonts.
    I might feel \"safer\" with 16 digits a.k.a. \"double\" precision, but I think
    there will be very very few cases where the difference matters.\r\n\r\nI have
    no idea what a single-precision PostScript interpreter will do when faced with
    a number with more significant digits. Could be a limitcheck error. Could just
    round. Maybe somebody else knows.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-05 23:34:09'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: Thomas, does the "8-digits" of accuracy you speak about refer to Postscript
    in general, i.e. the precision I can achieve in Illustrator or Freehand as opposed
    to the limits of the grid in type design software?
  created: '2009-03-07 11:49:40'
date: '2008-12-05 04:58:00'
node_type: forum
title: massive problems after scaling (fontlab)

---
