---
author:
  name: Denis Pelli
  picture: 115062
body: "For an article on legibility, Hannes Famira and I have measured reading speed
  (200-word passages from a mystery novel) for many fonts. Display-font speeds are
  all over the place, as one might expect. However, we were surprised to find that
  all the text fonts we tested are fast (more than 200 word/min). \r\n\r\nCan you
  think of a font that might be an exception to this rule? Does there exist a slow
  text font?\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "If it exists my guess is it has wide spacing. Emigre's Mrs. Eaves for example.
    It isn't really a text font but some peeple insist on setting text with it. The
    designer Zuzana Licko has said she spaced it out to slow things down a bit, and
    it does work that way.\r\n\r\nYou can slow down the reading experience of just
    about every text font around by tracking it out.\r\n\r\nI'm fascinated by your
    description of the reading test you devised. 200 word passages from a mystery
    novel, eh? Did you use only material from that one book, or did you try other
    kinds of literature such as non-fiction texts or newspaper articles?\r\n\r\n<em>However,
    we were surprised to find that all the text fonts we tested are fast (more than
    200 word/min).</em>\r\n\r\nThat's the least surprizing thing I've heard all week.
    I would expect a text font to read at least that rapidly.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-12-17 09:49:06'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Note: if my memory is correct, Zuzana Licko also says Mrs. Eaves is not a
    text font, nor is it meant to be one.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-12-17 10:28:40'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Any text font reads slowly if you set mathematical content with it. Or anything
    in a language you've just started to learn.\r\n\r\nAs reading slows down, if you're
    like me, you start paying attention to the forms of the letters and not the content,
    further slowing yourself down.\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-17 10:45:11'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Mathematical content is not text so that has zero relevance. We're not really
    interested in the dynamics of unfamiliar language systems versus reading speed
    or readerability either. Denis wants to know about Latin text fonts that read
    slowly when set with Latin text in a language familiar to whoever reads it, I
    think. I could be wrong about that tho. It's impossible to know because Denis
    has neglected to include relevant information like that.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-12-17 11:31:59'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Hi Denis. Did you try a Bodoni?
  created: '2008-12-17 11:38:01'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "I was also thinking of Bodoni. And maybe Helvetica. How about Rotis?\r\n\r\nCouldn't
    what you are looking for be formulated as a \"not very readable text font\"? Or,
    therefore simply a \"not very well designed text font\"? That would certainly
    get you lots of suggestions from Typophiles here.\r\nOr is \"slow\" a more specific
    quality?"
  created: '2008-12-17 11:54:37'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Which Rotis Tim? Serif, sans, semi sans or semi serif? That you don't specify
    tells me more about you as a person than about the Rotis series of typefaces.
    Rotis serif reads at 200 words per minute or better for those of us possessing
    a clear conscience and an open mind.\r\n\r\nHelvetica is not a text font so that
    doesn't count.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-12-17 12:07:05'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\" Does there exist a slow text font?\"\r\nCourier and other monospaced fonts
    have previously tested slower than proportionally spaced types for text. \r\nAnd
    I know one could make something on purpose. Meanwhile Denis, I'm delighted to
    hear you quoting <em>words</em> per minute. ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-12-17 12:35:03'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "(DP)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-12-17 12:36:09'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Note: if my memory is correct, Zuzana Licko also says Mrs. Eaves is
    not a text font, nor is it meant to be one.</cite>\r\n\r\nI need to find that
    quote and put it on a t-shirt."
  created: '2008-12-17 14:17:34'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Does there exist a slow text font?\r\n\r\nBlackletter?"
  created: '2008-12-17 15:18:41'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "<cite>Mathematical content is not text so that has zero relevance.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    should have been clearer. I don't know what you took 'mathematical content' to
    mean, but I meant something like this (from <a href=\"http://modular.fas.harvard.edu/edu/Spring2004/129/references/flt/flt.pdf\">\"Modular
    elliptic curves and Fermat's Last Theorem\" by Andrew Wiles</a>):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/elliptic_4034.gif]\r\n\r\nThis
    doesn't count as text?"
  created: '2008-12-17 15:36:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Well, fonts commonly used for text all have good rhythm and evenness of color,
    and also have a narrow range of darkness, so I'm not surprised that they all do
    well. I would expect some differences, though. \r\n\r\nFirst, even with good text
    fonts you could slow people down, I think, by long measure (line width) and very
    tight leading (space between the lines).\r\n\r\nI mention this because of the
    issue of Bodoni. Through a lot of the 19th century text was set in this style
    of type. Toward the latter part of the century people began to recognize that
    old style fonts--with less high contrast--were more readable, and lower contrast
    fonts have been used ever since. \r\n\r\nHowever, if you look at the old text
    settings of Bodoni--style fonts, you will see that they tend to increase word
    spacing and line spacing in an effort to make them more readable. \r\n\r\nSo if
    you test a high contrast Bodoni in text with the same layout specifications as
    old style, I think you will get a slower result. I think it would still be slower
    with the the kind of setting that was once preferred for these, but the difference
    would be attenuated.  \r\n\r\nAlso, as I have mentioned before here on Typophile,
    I think that if you test extended text for both speed and comprehension, you will
    get more differentiation between type facess and settings. My suggestion has been
    to do eg three hours continuous of reading tests from the SAT, with the testing
    for comprehension. Because our perceptual and mental apparatus is very robust--can
    compensate for difficulties--it can overcome difficulties.  \r\n\r\nBut if the
    reader is given more adverse or demanding circumstances, then I think measurable
    differences will show up. Also I think these differences will correspond to perceived
    reading comfort. "
  created: '2008-12-17 15:40:38'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: I wonder how ITC Garamond plays out in this test. Granted, as a type person
    it slows me down just because I can't help looking at it in all of its ugliness,
    but when I'm not paying attention it's still slower to read for me.
  created: '2008-12-17 16:03:46'
- author:
    name: paulstonier
    picture: 114324
  body: "I read in a book from the 60's called \"Physicological Study of Typography\"
    and within this it said that Bodoni was the slowest of the bunch that they tested
    and people complained about it's illegibility because of the contrast in form.
    Whereas, Imprint was the fastest. The book also has charts of appropriate point-sizes
    in correlation to ages. The book also provided results of comprehension for the
    group of about 15 typefaces. I believe Imprint was again the best of the bunch.
    However, it wasn't completely a direct correlation of reading speed to comprehension.
    I'd have to get the book again to recall the rest of the results.\r\n\r\nThis
    study also used Walbaum which, I believe, performed only slightly better than
    bodoni, but similar issues were brought up."
  created: '2008-12-17 16:50:52'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Dan - a friend (who is not a type fan) recently showed me a book set in ITC
    Garamond and mentioned how much she liked it and how easy it was to read. I think
    the disdain for the face comes mostly from those who know type.
  created: '2008-12-17 18:08:37'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "<<  I wonder how ITC Garamond plays out in this test.  >>\r\n\r\nI just read
    about 900 pages set in ITC Garamond (in 1992). This was a trade book slightly
    bigger than 6\" x 9\". I'm guessing it had 40 lines per page of what looks like
    maybe 10.5/13 ITC Garamond. The reading was so easy, and the text so compelling,
    that I was able to ignore the typeface, and I had no interest in delving into
    the type specs.\r\n\r\nI fancy myself as one of those who \"know type\" (in Stephen's
    phrase), so obviously I knew the face as soon as I picked up the book, and my
    type-ish prejudices came into play. But from page 3 I did not care what the face
    was. I felt the text read very well. The setting was \"normally\" tight in letterfit
    and wordspace, and it appears to have been set by a professional typographer or
    typesetter. There were false small caps for a.m. and p.m., but they were not obtrusive.\r\n\r\nThe
    book was a revelation, for I do not recall that I had ever read that much massed
    ITC Garamond. I doubt I will be tempted to set any political biographies in the
    face, though. The experience was not that compelling.\r\n\r\nFWIW, the book was
    \"Truman,\" by David McCullough. At times it veered toward hagiography, but it
    would be hard to write a more moving and uplifting fictional life story than Harry
    Truman's as written in this book. A perfect read for this political season in
    the USA. Highly recommended for those who read that sort of thing.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2008-12-17 19:52:14'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Denis, what text typefaces have you tested so far?\r\n\r\nAs others have
    mentioned, the high stroke contrast Bodoni style types (or related Didot and Scotch
    Roman) are notoriously considered to be less readable than lower contrast and
    oldstyle types. Linotype Didot would be a particularly good test case, I think,
    because the stroke contrast is extreme and the bowl shapes very tenuous."
  created: '2008-12-17 19:58:17'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Tim -- <cite>Couldn't what you are looking for be formulated as a \"not very
    readable text font\"? Or, therefore simply a \"not very well designed text font\"?
    That would certainly get you lots of suggestions from Typophiles here. Or is \"slow\"
    a more specific quality?\r\n\r\nActually I like the 'slow'/'fast' because it says
    what it measured rather than inferring from reading speed to qualities like 'readable'
    or 'well designed'.\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2008-12-17 20:08:53'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I like the \u2019slow\u2019/\u2019fast\u2019 because it says what it measured\r\n\r\nSo
    do I, but if you don't include comprehension, you don't get a full picture. Because
    the goal is speed with comprehension. I would add comfort, but that's more difficult
    to measure than speed and comprehension. My suggested measure of comfort is decline
    of either speed or comprehension or both with time reading demanding material,
    as in the experiment I have suggested above. "
  created: '2008-12-17 20:46:38'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>This study also used Walbaum which, I believe, performed only slightly
    better than bodoni, but similar issues were brought up.</cite>\r\n\r\nThen they
    probably used those display size versions. I got a book in original Walbaum letters
    here and the smaller sizes are pretty robust with very litte contrast. "
  created: '2008-12-17 21:13:08'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Ralf: <em>I got a book in original Walbaum letters here and the smaller sizes
    are pretty robust with very litte contrast.</em>\r\n\r\nThat is also true of Bodoni's
    original types, and I have early Didot printings that also do not suffer from
    the extreme stroke contrast of most modern versions, which have tended to emphasise
    dynamic extremes.\r\n\r\nBill: <em>...if you don\u2019t include comprehension,
    you don\u2019t get a full picture. Because the goal is speed with comprehension.</em>\r\n\r\nTrue,
    but from Denis' comments it doesn't sound like they are pushing any speeds at
    which comprehension (or retention, another important measure) would likely to
    be a problem. He defines 'fast' as 'more than 200 word/min', which is certainly
    not speed-reading."
  created: '2008-12-17 21:40:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...all the text fonts we tested are fast...</em>\r\n\r\nGreat news! Within
    the standard parameters of a text font (including ITC Garamond), it looks like
    \"readability\", as an empirically measurable quality, doesn't exist. Unless researchers
    can come up with some measure other than speed.\r\n\r\nSo could we please have
    a little less of this nonsense?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-17 22:14:54'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Not meaning to be unkind, but this isn't news. Lots of studies have been
    done controlling other factors, varying the typeface, and finding minimal differences
    in reading speed between any vaguely reasonable text faces.\r\n\r\nThat doesn't
    mean that there's no such thing as readability, nor does it deny the existence
    of other important differences in the reading experience. But reading speed for
    short passages is not much affected by variance within the realm of vaguely readable
    text faces.\r\n\r\nI'd be curious to see if speed of reading more extended text
    would be affected more by such differences. How much Arial will somebody read
    in an hour versus Walbaum versus Minion? Quite possibly this has been done as
    well, and I just haven't seen it.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-12-17 22:28:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>That doesn\u2019t mean that there\u2019s no such thing as readability,</em>\r\n\r\nNo,
    I'm quite sure it exists. But it can't be measured, or attributed to a typeface.\r\nIt's
    a quality of typography.\r\n\r\n<em>How much Arial will somebody read in an hour
    versus Walbaum</em>\r\n\r\nAt what size, leading, and measure, and on what paper
    stock or monitor?\r\nRagged or justified?\r\nWhich cut of Walbaum?\r\nWhat demographic
    of reader, what genre of writing?\r\n&c. &c.\r\n\r\nThere is no quid pro quo in
    assessing one typeface against another; different typographers will optimize them
    differently, bearing in mind the task at hand.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-17 23:04:36'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">How much Arial will somebody read in an hour versus Walbaum versus Minion?
    \r\n\r\nThat's the kind of test I've repeatedly suggested before here on Typophile,
    but more challenging, as the more challenging is more likely to get a differentiation
    among typefaces. "
  created: '2008-12-17 23:49:08'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Great story, Will. I feel duly humbled. Shared it with the said friend and
    she was very pleased to have confirmation of her experience from one of my kind.
  created: '2008-12-18 02:20:44'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Great thread. If only I had time to read it. Will have to come back to this
    one.\r\n\r\nBriefly, I think Nick gets the cigar: <em>No, I\u2019m quite sure
    it exists. But it can\u2019t be measured, or attributed to a typeface. It\u2019s
    a quality of typography.</em>\r\n\r\nThis is good. This is true in my formal estimation
    and experience. One of the most valuable things Nick taught me soon after I started
    making fonts was that any display font can be made to give readable results with
    a bit of judiciously-applied tracking out. It's true. It works, and I've been
    experimenting with those effects on text fonts in development for five years now.\r\n\r\nThank
    you Nick!\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-12-18 06:55:52'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"That is also true of Bodoni\u2019s original types...\" which is to say,
    without proper knowledge of output...\r\n\r\n\"He defines \u2019fast\u2019 as
    \u2019more than 200 word/min\u2019, which is certainly not speed-reading.\"\r\n\r\nAs
    Hannes knows, specification, specification, specification.  Who's reading it?
    How's it being composed? What's the output? Otherwise, who <em>nose?</em>\r\n\r\nI
    suggested monospace as a rubber tomahawk to the patella, (the diagnosis is that
    the patient <em>may</em> be dead), but maybe, yo'all should <em>try</em> read'in
    this:\r\n\r\nhttp://eric.ed.gov:80/ERICDocs/data/ericdocs2sql/content_storage_01/0000019b/80/32/06/cf.pdf
    \r\n\r\n...and let me know how that goes down. :)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-12-18 12:51:30'
- author:
    name: paulstonier
    picture: 114324
  body: "\"At what size, leading, and measure, and on what paper stock or monitor?\r\nRagged
    or justified?\r\nWhich cut of Walbaum?\r\nWhat demographic of reader, what genre
    of writing?\r\n&c. &c.\"\r\n\r\nI believe at least that the test was done with
    all the fonts set in 14/16 and tested a variety of demographics.\r\nActually,
    as I begin to remember a little more they did test scientific writings, drama,
    and another area and tested some specialists in each area.\r\n\r\nOne part that
    i do remember is that the scientists preferred certain fonts in preference that
    they were more capable of showing mathematic notation."
  created: '2008-12-18 16:48:28'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Are there good definitions of <em>text font</em>?\r\n\r\nI suspect that the
    definition of text font is any font that can be read fast. There is little else
    in common with such different typefaces as Bodoni and Helvetica. Conversely, I
    suspect that display fonts are fonts that cannot be read fast.\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-18 18:31:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Kevin, your logic is somewhat circular, and as usual not informed by type
    culture.\r\nFor instance, both Bell Centennial and Freight Micro, which were designed
    specifically for the most legibility-challenging text usage, have found favor
    as headline faces.\r\n\r\nIt is a premise of the science of categories that strict
    definitions are not possible.\r\ni.e. if one attempts to define the category \"text
    type\", it will be possible to find text types which have none of the features
    in one's definition list, and vice versa, types which have all the features, but
    are not text types.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-18 19:11:25'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The category 'text type' is indeed somewhat loose, though there is the common
    place that text types can be used for display, but not necessarily visa versa.
    For me the terminology is somewhat beside the point, and the interesting question
    is what qualities in a type design makes it highly readable for extended text
    at small sizes (roughly 9-12 point printed, similar visual angles on screen).
    By highly readable I mean can be read with high comfort, speed, and comprehension.
    \r\n\r\nDifferent types have different ideals as far as setting: size, leading
    etc., so this would need to be part of the study. But, contrary to Nick, I see
    no insuperable barrier to quantifying the combination of variables. "
  created: '2008-12-18 19:21:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...but not necessarily visa versa.</em>\r\n\r\nMany typefaces that originated
    as display faces have been adapted for text.\r\nFrom my own catalog--Brown and
    Fontesque.\r\nBasically, they just need to have wider sidebearings, and for serif
    faces, get beefed up a bit.\r\n\r\nIt is not the typeface design per se that determines
    whether a typeface is a text face, but (a) how the typeface is \"scaled\" in anticipation
    of use at particular sizes in particular media, and (b) whether a typographer
    decides to use it at text size.\r\n\r\n\r\n<em>I see no insuperable barrier to
    quantifying the combination of variables.</em>\r\n\r\nThe sheer number of variables,
    many of which are difficult to simulate in a laboratory setting, makes it extremely
    impractical.\r\n\r\nAnd what of the typographer?\r\nAre fonts such dull instruments
    that it doesn't make a blind bit of difference who sets them?\r\nIs one typographer
    as good as the next?"
  created: '2008-12-18 19:56:54'
- author:
    name: Denis Pelli
    picture: 115062
  body: "Wow! 33 replies in 24 hours. this is very helpful. thanks. by way of response,
    i'll begin with three general remarks before responding to some of the particular
    points raised in your many kind postings. \r\n\r\nGENERAL\r\n\r\nfirst, we are
    doing other things, as well, in the paper. we are keenly aware that there is more
    to readability than just reading speed, and that one might question whether speed
    is even essential. (i think it is; people who read slowly because of low vision,
    e.g. 30 word/min, complain bitterly.) still, we were suprised by this result and
    hoped that typophiles might illuminate it and help us look for counter examples.
    you have. thank you.\r\n\r\nsecond, the possibility of a \"slow text font\" hinges
    critically on how one defines \"text font\". the usual definition is \"suitable
    for setting large blocks of text\". one might argue that any font that is slow
    is thus unsuitable and, by definition, cannot be a \"text\" font.\r\n\r\nthird,
    please do not mistake a two-sentence summary for a paper. the rules of publication
    are strict. what we submit for publication has to be previously unpublished (and
    public web sites count as publication), so we can bring up (and answer questions
    about) some specific points here, but the bulk of our paper has to appear for
    the first time in the manuscript that we submit for publication.\r\n\r\nSPECIFIC\r\n\r\n<strong>James
    Arboghast: </strong><em>If it exists my guess is it has wide spacing. Emigre\u2019s
    Mrs. Eaves for example. You can slow down the reading experience of just about
    every text font around by tracking it out.</em>\r\ni'm a Licko fan, but we haven't
    yet tested Mrs Eaves. Thanks. we are looking at the effect of tracking (see below).\r\n\r\n<em>Zuzana
    Licko also says Mrs. Eaves is not a text font.</em>\r\nthis seems fanciful to
    me. i've mostly seen it used as a text font, whatever her intention. This is like
    Tschichold's claim that Palatino is a display font, not a text font  (as reported
    by Noorzij, link below). At some point, one must question the authorities.\r\nhttp://www.letterror.com/noordzij/interview/index.html\r\n\r\n<em>passages
    from a mystery novel, eh? ... did you try other kinds of literature?</em>\r\nin
    this particular project, no, but we are about to try another text, chosen to be
    very difficult (a bit like the mathematical text, Fermat's last theorem, suggested
    by Jongseong).\r\n\r\n<em>\"However, we were surprised to find that all the text
    fonts we tested are fast (more than 200 word/min).\"\r\nThat\u2019s the least
    surprizing thing I\u2019ve heard all week. I would expect a text font to read
    at least that rapidly.</em>\r\nYou've put your finger on a key issue. Suppose
    we do find a slow text font (perhaps Mrs Eaves), that people read at a tedious
    50 word/min. Would you accept our finding? Or would you immediately reclassify
    the font as a display font and deny our claim? It depends on how you define \"text
    font\".\r\n\r\n<strong>Jongseong: </strong><em>Any text font reads slowly if you
    set mathematical content with it. Or anything in a language you\u2019ve just started
    to learn.</em>\r\nYes, indeed. See my comments about Fraktur, below.\r\n\r\n<strong>Stephen
    Coles: </strong><em>Did you try a Bodoni?</em>\r\nnot yet, we're about to collect
    more data on a larger group of fonts, including Bodoni. we're asking here now
    so that typophile suggestions might better inform our choices. thanks.\r\n\r\n<strong>Tim
    Ahrens: </strong><em>I was also thinking of Bodoni. And maybe Helvetica. How about
    Rotis?</em>\r\nwe tested Helvetica Neue, in regular 55, ultralight 25, and black
    95 weights. all gave a similar high speed: 300 word/min.\r\n\r\n<strong>James
    Arboghast: </strong><em>Helvetica is not a text font so that doesn\u2019t count.</em>\r\nReally?
    Wow. I'm shocked to hear this. In my mind, Helvetica more than satifies all the
    criteria to be a text font. The modern/Swiss movement recommended it for all text.
    \r\n\r\nDo other typographers agree with James, denying that Helvetica is a text
    font?\r\n\r\n<strong>dberlow: </strong><em>Courier and other monospaced fonts
    have previously tested slower than proportionally spaced types for text.</em>\r\nMy
    hazy recollection, from past projects, is that Courier is as fast as other fonts.
    we're including it in our next round of testing.\r\n\r\n<em>And I know one could
    make something on purpose.</em>\r\nPlease, please, this is a tease. Tell us how!\r\n\r\n<strong>sii:
    </strong><em>Blackletter?</em>\r\nOh, yes, that is a VERY interesting case. Fraktur
    (the German blackletter) was common before WWII in Germany, widely used for all
    text, and considered a text font (or family of fonts). It was outlawed during
    the war, and is now uncommon. People who are unfamiliar with it find it hard to
    read. It is now considered a display font, unsuitable for large blocks of text.
    This suggests that the definition of \"text font\" may not allow for the possibility
    of being slow. we're including a Fraktur in our next round of tests. we're also
    tring to find a fluent reader of Fraktur, for comparison. (we'd be very grateful
    to hear from anyone who reads a lot of Fraktur and might like to participate in
    a reading test. denis.pelli@nyu.edu)\r\n\r\n<strong>William Berkson: </strong><em>First,
    even with good text fonts you could slow people down, I think, by long measure
    (line width) and very tight leading (space between the lines).</em>\r\nYes, that's
    true. However, I think that you would assume that calling a font \"slow\" would
    be based on reading speed under favorable conditions (easy content, reasonable
    line length and leading, good lighting).\r\n\r\nWe have measured effect of tracking,
    over a wide range. it has little effect on speed unless the letters overlap or
    are so far apart that the words disintegrate.\r\n\r\nComprehension is important
    but hard to measure with sufficient precision to be useful as a dependent measure.
    We ask our observers to read \"as fast as possible while maintaining comprehesion\".
    After each passage, we ask the observers to provide a gist of what they've read,
    which we score. Knowing that they will have to provide this gist encourages them
    to maintain comprehension while reading.\r\n\r\n<strong>DanGayle: </strong><em>I
    wonder how ITC Garamond plays out</em>\r\nGaramond (Monotype) is fast: 300 word/min.\r\n\r\n<strong>paulstonier:
    </strong><em>I read in a book from the 60\u2019s called \u201CPhysicological Study
    of Typography\u201D and within this it said that Bodoni was the slowest ...</em>\r\n\r\nOh!
    I didn't know of this book. I'm ordering a used copy now. Very interesting.\r\n\r\nBurt,
    C.L. (1959). <em>A psychological study of typography.</em> Cambridge, UK: Cambridge
    University Press.\r\n\r\nThis is the (in)famous Sir Cyril Burt who studied inheritance
    of intelligence.\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cyril_Burt\r\n\r\nThanks!\r\n\r\n<strong>Stephen
    Coles: </strong><em>ITC Garamond ... she liked it and how easy it was to read</em>\r\nNice.
    \r\n\r\n<strong>will powers: </strong><em>I just read about 900 pages set in ITC
    Garamond (in 1992). This was a trade book slightly bigger than 6\u201D x 9\u201D.
    I\u2019m guessing it had 40 lines per page of what looks like maybe 10.5/13 ITC
    Garamond. The reading was so easy, and the text so compelling, that I was able
    to ignore the typeface, and I had no interest in delving into the type specs.</em>\r\nWow.
    That's a compelling testimonial. Thank you.\r\n\r\n<strong>John Hudson: </strong><em>Denis,
    what text typefaces have you tested so far? As others have mentioned, the high
    stroke contrast Bodoni style types ... are notoriously considered to be less readable
    ...</em>\r\nSo far, we have tested the following text fonts: Garamond (Monotype
    version 2.35), Helvetica Neue 25, 55, 95, Meta, Proforma, Quadraat, and Times
    New Roman. We also tested Python Sans, which not everyone would call a text font,
    and lots of display fonts, e.g. P22 Albers.\r\n\r\n<strong>Nick Shinn: </strong><em>it
    looks like \u201Creadability\u201D, as an empirically measurable quality, doesn\u2019t
    exist. Unless researchers can come up with some measure other than speed.</em>\r\nWe're
    working on it. You're a tough critic, so we'll be very interested to see what
    you think of our paper when we get it out.\r\n\r\n<strong>Thomas Phinney: </strong><em>Not
    meaning to be unkind, but this isn\u2019t news. Lots of studies have been done
    controlling other factors, varying the typeface, and finding minimal differences
    in reading speed between any vaguely reasonable text faces.</em>\r\nYes, you are
    correct (and not unkind). As you say, there is a large literature showing little
    effect of typography on speed (e.g. Tinker, 1963). Still, naive as I am, I was
    surprised. I thought one or another font would be an exception. Not so.\r\n\r\nTinker,
    M. A. (1963). <em>Legibility of print.</em> Ames, Iowa: Iowa State University
    Press.\r\n\r\n<em>I\u2019d be curious to see if speed of reading more extended
    text would be affected more by such differences. ... Quite possibly this has been
    done as well, and I just haven\u2019t seen it.</em>\r\nI don't think it's been
    done, though William Berkson has suggested it here more than once.\r\n\r\n<strong>James
    Arboghast: </strong><em>One of the most valuable things Nick taught me soon after
    I started making fonts was that any display font can be made to give readable
    results with a bit of judiciously-applied tracking out. It\u2019s true. It works,
    ...</em>\r\nHmm. That's interesting, I didn't know that. But aren't you overstating
    the case? There are many display fonts whose letters have strange shapes that
    are hard to decipher, e.g. Psychedelic or Pop-Two. I doubt that generous tracking
    would overcome the effect of the strange letter shapes.\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/t26/psychedelic/\r\nhttp://www.identifont.com/show?2D3\r\n\r\n<strong>dberlow:
    </strong><em>try read\u2019in this:\r\nhttp://eric.ed.gov:80/ERICDocs/data/ericdocs2sql/content_storage_01/0000019b/80/32/06/cf.pdf\r\nand
    let me know how that goes down. :)</em>\r\nyes, that's a great example. it's hideous.
    it takes a great effort to make oneself read it, yet, extrapolating from other
    tests we've done in the past, i suspect that reading speed is unimpaired. this
    nicely illustrates Nick Shinn's point that there is more to readability than just
    reading speed. thank you.\r\n\r\nthanks to all."
  created: '2008-12-19 03:45:59'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "On the difficulty of testing for comprehension. The SAT tests are supposed
    to be standardized for difficulty of the material. So if you do the SAT test on
    somebody, and the variation is more than it would normally be for SAT tests, you
    will see an indication of effect of the typography. \r\n\r\nI really don't think
    calling something a 'text type' or not for purposes of scientific testing is that
    useful. It will get into a verbal debate, as it has already to some extent. The
    issue is really what promotes readability. Now it is reasonable to start with
    fonts widely used for extended text assuming they represent a high standard, but
    that's only a starting point. \r\n\r\nI don't think the variables are all that
    huge for usual text types: you have 1. x-height 2. extender heights 3. stem width
    4. contrast 5. width of characters 6. point size 7. presence or absence of serifs
    8. weight of serifs. 9. width of round strokes. 10. with of rounds counters 11.
    rhythmic unity of face--measurable using Fourier transforms. \r\n\r\nYou can add
    more, but if you have two fonts that are all the same on these 11, they're probably
    going to behave quite a lot alike, when it comes to ideal leading and measure.\r\n\r\nThe
    point is, the list is long, but it doesn't go on forever.\r\n\r\nNick if you think
    that your Fontesque and your Goodchild are equally readable, I think you're wrong
    and probably that Denis's methods, whatever they are, could refute you. Fontesque
    is charmingly irregular, but I think that makes it less readable than Goodchild,
    which follows classic proportions."
  created: '2008-12-19 04:40:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>if you think that your Fontesque and your Goodchild are equally readable</em>\r\n\r\nBill,
    I mentioned Fontesque as an example of a display typeface which was later adapted
    for a text version.\r\nIts readability vis-a-vis Goodchild would depend on context;
    it is not an absolute.\r\nReadability is not a quality of typefaces, but of typography;
    it does not exist until graphic designers, art directors and typographers create
    typespecs for specific projects.\r\nCompare with music: is one instrument more
    \"listenable\" than another?--it depends on who's playing what, where, and to
    whom."
  created: '2008-12-19 05:54:30'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: ">> DanGayle: I wonder how ITC Garamond plays out\r\n> Garamond (Monotype)
    is fast: 300 word/min\r\n\r\nAhh, but ITC Garamond is a <a href=\"http://www.designobserver.com/archives/entry.html?id=205\">very
    different</a> animal than any other Garamond."
  created: '2008-12-19 06:49:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Your comparison with a violin in a way begs the question, because it implies
    that the question of which typeface to use is purely aesthetic. \r\n\r\nBut the
    issue is whether there is such a thing as greater readability among text designs,
    which you declare as \"nonsense\". \r\n\r\nBut you do concede that some faces
    need to be adapted to work better as text. \r\n\r\nI am arguing that some designs
    are better for readibility. To take your example of the violin. If you have one
    with a beautiful sound, but too soft to fill a concert hall, then it is not suitable
    for un-miked concert work, no matter what its aesthetic qualities. \r\n\r\nFontesque
    has aesthetic qualities that makes it well suited to conveying the emotion of
    some messages, and not others. But I just don't think it would work that well
    for reading small, extended text. Has anyone ever set a novel in 11 pt Fontesque?\r\n\r\nAlso
    your argument about 'typography' being readable, not fonts, begs the question
    as well. The question is whether the typeface, when well used as far as measure
    and leading, is readable in text. There is some flexiblity on the rules for what
    is a reabable text block, given the features of the type. But the flexibility
    is not infinite, and the rules are well known, and laid out, for example in Mitchell
    & Wightman's Book Typography. \r\n\r\nThus the fact that the readability of Fontesque
    is not an absolute and will vary with the context does not make your case. The
    point is that that variability is restricted, and even with modifications you
    have made for text, Fontesque will not be as readable as Goodchild when both are
    set for maximum readability. \r\n\r\nDenis, you don't address the issue of declining
    speed + comprehension as a measure (an inverse) of readability. Will pushing readers
    to read for a long time on difficult material show up differences in readability
    that the robustness and adaptability of our perceptual apparatus would otherwise
    mask?\r\n \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2008-12-19 13:37:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>The point is that that variability is restricted, and even with modifications
    you have made for text, Fontesque will not be as readable as Goodchild when both
    are set for maximum readability.</em>\r\n\r\nWhy not?\r\nIf Will can do 300 pages
    of ITC Garamond....\r\n\r\nBut seriously, why do people consider novel-length
    durability the sine qua non of readability?\r\nThat's Updikean snobbery.\r\nAre
    shoes only \"runnable\" if you can do a marathon in them?\r\nWhat about middle
    distance?\r\nSprints?\r\nHurdles?\r\nLong jump?\r\nFootball? Tennis? Basketball?\r\n\r\nBill,
    as you imply (\"...pushing readers to read for a long time...\") length of text
    is one more variable to be added to the list.\r\nIn practice, typography is so
    multi-variant that only aesthetics can deal with it.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-19 17:51:33'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Track
  created: '2008-12-20 23:06:34'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "<cite>Do other typographers agree with James, denying that Helvetica is a
    text font?</cite>\r\n\r\nWhile I wouldn't choose to set a large block of text
    in it, I cannot deny that it is a text font. \r\n\r\nDenis, are your test subjects
    both American and European? I suspect Europeans are more likely to read larger
    stretches of something like Helvetica comfortably, as opposed to Americans. (Humanist
    sans are different; I've read many things by Zapf set in Optima, and I'm very
    comfortable with it.)"
  created: '2008-12-21 00:37:09'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "<strong>Denis</strong>: how one defines \u201Ctext font\u201D [is critical].
    the usual definition is \u201Csuitable for setting large blocks of text\u201D.\r\n\r\nI
    think that's an unusual definition, but thanks. Normally, text refers to length
    not size, and to type not text, and to reading not setting. I will continue to
    think of it as \"type composed suitably for reading a text\", and I often add
    where applicable, \"which the reader cannot see the end of from the beginning.\"\r\n\r\n<strong>Me</strong>:
    <em>And I know one could make something on purpose.</em>\L\r\n<strong>Denis: </strong>
    Please, please, this is a tease. Tell us how! \r\n\r\nI've given you a specific
    suggestion for piecewise non-linear word-shape busting. There is only one face
    better at slow-down in this class of eye-beater. <em>Someone</em> could even take
    Courier, and piecewise non-linearly replace the word space, fijlmrt and w, <em>and
    then </em>you can test Courier against its better self! And if that's too complex,
    use Letter Gothic, which could be even slower against it's better self.\r\n\r\nBesides
    that, \"how-to\" retard reading is a topic with such a vast range of anti-relevance
    to our work, it's too simple: Reader-ability? Give tiny kids Einstein's theory
    of relativity; Output? Give 'em Cleartype@96 dpi; Composition? Use Word or Photoshop;
    Type selection? See the Sung & Schwartz study. Any one of these meta-varibles
    can be used to effect the results of \"reading\" studies, and each has hundreds,
    some say thousands of variables, while yet others have millions and billions of
    variables.\r\n\r\nWhy do you think there are so many fonts to choose from?\r\n
    \r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-12-21 16:27:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Why do you think there are so many fonts to choose from?</em>\r\n\r\nCapitalist
    excess, comrade."
  created: '2008-12-21 18:56:53'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Capitalist excess, comrade.\"\r\n\r\nProgress, dude.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-12-22 14:49:20'
date: '2008-12-17 08:50:50'
title: Does a slow text font exist?

---
