---
author:
  name: piccic
  picture: 110375
body: "Since I wish to leave Saad's early Kufi thread as is, while I wish to get acquainted
  with Arabic writing history, I open this thread to gather resources about this topic.\r\n\r\nAs
  a first step, I'd like to ask Saad which kind of writing is [[http://www.flickr.com/photos/ebensorkin/3039222737/|this
  one]], photographed by Eben Sorkin while doing the Arabic class at Reading with
  Fiona Ross."
comments:
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Site is inaccessible. Can you upload the image here.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-18 19:08:19'
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: "Claudio,\r\n\r\nI think this is Maghribi (North Western African) which is
    derived from Kufi and sometimes referred to as new Kufi.  It was used for centuries
    in Andalus, south Spain and in sub Saharan areas .. \r\n\r\n-Saad "
  created: '2008-12-19 02:22:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Yes, this is maghribi, 'from the maghreb' i.e. Northwest Africa. To my knowledge,
    there is only one font available in the maghribi style, Hakim Ghazali's eponymous
    typeface available from Linotype:\r\nhttp://www.linotype.com/184180/hakimghazali-family.html\r\n\r\nThe
    choice of a Latin companion design for this font presents an interesting case.
    Linotype opted to select a type with similar stroke characteristics, but of course
    the result in Latin is something very informal and rough, while the Arabic is
    a relatively traditional maghribi book hand."
  created: '2008-12-19 04:17:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Saad: <em>...and in sub Saharan areas</em>\r\n\r\nYou might find occasional
    examples in sub-Saharan regions, implying some measure of cross-desert or coastal
    trade, but this style is primarily associated with the north. In sub-Saharan Africa,
    there are regional styles collectively referred to as ifriqi. I am a big fan of
    ifriqi calligraphy. Here's a piece from my library:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ifriqi1000_6473.jpg]"
  created: '2008-12-19 04:20:53'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "And this Maghribi style is dated back to 1885:\r\nhttp://graphics4arab.com/showthread.php?p=10929#post10929\r\nBy
    Haj Zuhair Bash (not Bush) With Flowers\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-19 06:58:10'
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: "Aziz,\r\n\r\n>>And this Maghribi style is dated back to 1885\r\n\r\nI assume
    you meant this piece (not the style) is dated back to 1885, as Maghribi is much
    older than that.\r\n\r\nBTW:  I could not open it as they require me to register,
    but when I did, they say I have no permissions.  Do they charge subscription fee?\r\n\r\n-Saad"
  created: '2008-12-19 15:17:01'
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: "John:\r\n\r\n>>In sub-Saharan Africa, there are regional styles collectively
    referred to as ifriqi\r\n\r\nTrue, but Ifriqi is directly derived from Maghribi
    and very close to it. \r\n\r\n-Saad"
  created: '2008-12-19 15:24:06'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Maghribi_4842.jpg]\r\nSorry Saad for
    the inconvenience. Registration there is free. \r\nJust try again. Looking forward
    to welcoming you there with Flowers."
  created: '2008-12-19 16:15:23'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Ooh! Thanks to everyone\u2026 :=)\r\nSome questions:\r\n\r\n1) as for calligraphy-influenced
    book typefaces, are there widely used styles outside Naskh?\r\n  (Aziz's example
    is a calligraphed book, right?)\r\n\r\n<cite> The choice of a Latin companion
    design for this font presents an interesting case. Linotype opted to select a
    type with similar stroke characteristics, but of course the result in Latin is
    something very informal and rough, while the Arabic is a relatively traditional
    maghribi book hand. </cite>\r\n@John: I recall you talked about it [Maghribi's
    \"inkblots\"] on Nadine Chanine's page. A very interesting challenge, if I wasn't
    already dispersing in a million \"interesting challenges\"\u2026 :=(\r\n\r\n2)
    Is Maghribi used in Morocco? In general, what's its main use? \u2014 since, in
    typographic form, it does not seem to be such a widely diffused alphabet.\r\n\r\nFlowers\u2026
    :=)"
  created: '2008-12-19 19:22:44'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Informative but in Arabic:\r\nhttp://ar.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D8%A3%D8%A8%D8%AC%D8%AF%D9%8A%D8%A9_%D8%B9%D8%B1%D8%A8%D9%8A%D8%A9\r\nSorry
    for not having time to translate it into English.\r\nAny Volunteer?! Flowers for
    All.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-20 10:55:14'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Aziz, thank you! The [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arabic_alphabet|English
    parallel page]] seems enough interesting as well\u2026\r\n\r\nAs of now, the most
    wonderful web resource for me is the Schoyen Collection:\r\n4.7. Arabic scripts
    section:\r\nhttp://www.schoyencollection.com/arabic.htm#4597\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-20 13:10:43'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Thanks Piccic with Flowers\r\n1. I do not see the Wiki English page equally
    parallel to the Arabic one?!\r\n2. Happy Comparing with Flowers\r\nhttp://www.schoyencollection.com/arabic.htm#4.7.10\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/48495\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Rayhan_4921.jpg]"
  created: '2008-12-20 14:35:53'
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: "Claudio\r\n\r\n>>Is Maghribi used in Morocco? In general, what\u2019s its
    main use? \r\n\r\nThe old Maghribi style is not used anywhere now, like Andalusi.\r\n\r\nAziz,
    shukran, I finally became member of the blog site.  \r\n\r\n\r\n-Saad"
  created: '2008-12-20 16:33:59'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Thanks, Aziz, I hope to get into later scripts later on, for now I am interested
    in the most ancient roots. Not easy, I understand.\r\n\r\n<cite> The old Maghribi
    style is not used anywhere now, like Andalusi. </cite>\r\nSaad, how would it look
    a page written in Maghribi, or typeset in a Maghribi inspired typeface to [most
    of] today's readers?\r\nPlus, take this weirdness: could the \"virtually jointed\"
    styles you are developing as Mutamathil be perceived as an \"alternative form\"
    of letters? Although not informed by historical tradition, could they be used
    alongside with \u2013 say \u2013 Naskh, to create emphasis on single words in
    a text?\r\n(I mean this like the way we use Italics/Cursive or Small Capitals
    in Latin)"
  created: '2008-12-23 16:36:33'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "... how would it look a page written in Maghribi, or typeset \r\nin a Maghribi
    inspired typeface to [most of] today\u2019s readers?\r\nSee:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/52935\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-23 18:30:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I suspect one can still find scribes proficient in the maghribi style in Morocco
    and perhaps into Algeria. The further east you go, the less likely you will be
    to find this style, and now it is most likely to be found deliberately evoking
    Andalusian or Moroccan history. In Morocco, I think it is admired and treasured
    as something particular to the region, but typographically one will presumably
    find naskh used.
  created: '2008-12-24 02:06:32'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "<cite> and now it is most likely to be found deliberately evoking Andalusian
    or Moroccan history. In Morocco, I think it is admired and treasured as something
    particular to the region, but typographically one will presumably find naskh used.
    </cite>\r\n\r\nThank you John, for the detailed reply. Aziz: that's what I was
    asking, I meant it not graphically, but in its impact on the average reader. I
    have a friend from Morocco, so I guess they treasure this like I treasure Arrighi's
    cancelleresca\u2026 :=)"
  created: '2008-12-24 17:29:29'
- author:
    name: behnam
  body: "piccic:\r\n>>I meant it not graphically, but in its impact on the average
    reader.\r\n\r\nI think we are all (the Arabic script users) in a transitional
    period. For generations, publishing technology has left us with simplified Naskh
    as the most visually adapted style for mass production and mass consumption. We
    don't 'see' anymore anything outside of that established style as 'standard' for
    publication. If we go outside of its boundaries, we are venturing in graphics
    and not the functionality of the text.\r\nThis is partly for the merits of simplified
    Naskh, and partly because, for generations, the technology limitations didn't
    leave use much other choice.\r\nNow the technology is gradually giving us back
    what it has taken away from us for generations and although the outcome of this
    new capabilities is unknown to me, but I think it will certainly have a major
    impact -not quickly- in what we'd perceive as 'standard look' of a published text.\r\nThe
    graphic side also can fly from here on. But I wouldn't put both emerging changes
    in the same basket."
  created: '2008-12-24 18:05:22'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Hi Benham, thank you!\r\nOh, I'm sure you can't make any substantial change
    to happen. What strucks me with Naskh is how it is both so deeply associated with
    the religious essence in the sacred text, and the average typographic form for
    everyday use. That's why I asked about Saad's simplified and often simmetrical
    experimental forms, and at the same time about a possible intermixed use of Naskh
    and black Kufic letters.\r\nI see the beauty of Qur'an pages is often obtained
    by harmony of tone, while I tend to predilige harmony of contrast, and since in
    Latin we have always had different script forms mixed since the early middle ages
    (carolingian minuscule, capitals, and many later cursives), I wondered how this
    variedty could apply with Arabic letters and page layouts.\r\n\r\nAre you a native
    Arabic or an Arabic user of adoption? I ask because I think we will always be
    more familiar with our own native scripts\u2026"
  created: '2008-12-24 18:19:08'
- author:
    name: behnam
  body: "piccic:\r\n>>Are you a native Arabic or an Arabic user of adoption? I ask
    because I think we will always be more familiar with our own native scripts\u2026\r\n\r\nI'm
    a native Persian. I use the script for my language but I don't speak Arabic. I
    can read -badly- an Arabic text and I vaguely understand few words of it because
    Arabic language -along Qur'an- had a great presence in our language. But I am
    a native Arabic *script* user not native Arabic. If by 'adoption' you mean in
    the historic sense, yes Persian language uses Arabic script by adoption. But I
    personally didn't adopt it. I grew with it and lived with it.\r\nBut this is an
    interesting point because the impact of new technology will be more pronounced
    in non Arabic languages of Arabic script. I don't know how far the change of 'established
    look' of published material in Arabic language can go from what it is now. Because
    the handwriting of Arabs is not essentially very far from it. This is not the
    case with handwriting of Persians, Pakistanis (who have never adopted Naskh for
    their mass consumption) and basically most areas to the east of Iraq.\r\nI'm not
    knowledgable in traditionally established calligraphic styles but I can easily
    see that mix and match of different styles can happen. The new abilities will
    essentially move the 'established look' toward what is actually practiced in handwriting,
    which is mostly derived from Nasta'liq on the east of Iraq.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-25 00:00:09'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Thanks for the explanation. Of course, by \"native\" in terms of script I
    meant that Arabic is the alphabet you grew with. I'm sorry if sometimes I can't
    explain myself well, but my English is not so good as it seems, and often \u2013
    for a term which is perfectly clear for me in Italian \u2013, I can't figure which
    is the best word to translate the concept into English.\r\n\"Script\" actually
    is one of those terms. In English it may mean the alphabet, a page, or a specific
    style of a typeface related to calligraphic models (connected or unconnected).\r\nSo,
    when I wish to translate what in Italian we call \"scrittura\", which means the
    alphabet with all its richness, history and life implications, I thought using
    \"script\" was a fine choice, but it's probably ambiguous. Of course, in Italian
    \"scrittura/e\" means also \"handwriting\", and the books of the Bible, and other
    things, but by context you can't equivocate so much, since Italian is a very sharp
    and precise language, quite the opposite of English.\r\n\r\nSo, basically, what
    I meant is that what we grow with and learn as children is very deeply assimilated.\r\n\r\nWhat
    did Persians and Pakistans have adopted as the most used model of typeface instead
    of Naskh?"
  created: '2008-12-25 19:27:36'
- author:
    name: behnam
  body: "piccic:\r\n>>What did Persians and Pakistans have adopted as the most used
    model of typeface instead of Naskh?\r\n\r\nEnglish is not my mother tongue either!
    I use the term 'script' as it is used by Unicode in defining a writing system
    covering a number of languages. By this definition, Italian is part of 'Roman
    script' as English is, and Persian, Urdu and Arabic are part of 'Arabic script'.\r\n\r\nPersians
    adopted Naskh exclusively. Because up until now -and even now- Nasta'liq could
    not be produced by machinery. When it comes to poetry, the hand work of calligraphers
    in Nasta'liq was occasionally used in school books and literary publications.
    There is now some speciality graphic applications that do Nasta'liq.\r\nPakistanis
    were more persistent in using the hand work in their publications (for Urdu Nasta'liq)
    and even now, have put more effort in producing fonts of Nasta'liq for mass consumption.
    But they also use Naskh in less exclusive manner.\r\nThe emerging advances in
    font technology and text rendering has just started and has not yet reached a
    widespread use and technical support in applications to have an immediate impact
    in the state of the affairs."
  created: '2008-12-26 03:13:58'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "<cite> I use the term \u2019script\u2019 as it is used by Unicode in defining
    a writing system covering a number of languages. </cite>\r\nMe too. I hope it's
    not so equivocal. If there are better english terms, any native Englishman is
    welcome to suggest! :=)\r\n\r\nThanks for the explanation, it's great to learn
    little by little more and more\u2026"
  created: '2008-12-28 14:36:38'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "... since Italian is a very sharp and precise language, quite the opposite
    of English.\r\n... any native Englishman is welcome to suggest! :=)\r\n\r\n2 interesting
    comments by our Italian Typophile. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-28 16:32:31'
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: "Behnam wrote:\r\n\r\n>>Persians adopted Naskh exclusively. Because up until
    now -and even now- Nasta\u2019liq could not be produced by machinery. \r\n\r\nLike
    with Europeans, it was the trend centuries ago to adapt a specific calligraphic
    style of the Latin script as a \"national\" or imperial style.  Smartly, the west
    had realized the advantages of getting rid of this antiquated practice. Script
    unity with open style diversity had served the Latin script and the West well.
    \r\n\r\nDespite my fascination with the beauty of Nastaleeq (Urdu and Persian),
    I am happy that the pre-Tasmeem machinery had at least served a good cause by
    practically \"forcing\" all users of the Arabic script to learn one common default
    style: Naskh. The Muslim east can also benefit from similar unity and diversity.\r\n\r\n-Saad "
  created: '2008-12-30 21:55:21'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "<cite> Like with Europeans, it was the trend centuries ago to adapt a specific
    calligraphic style of the Latin script as a \u201Cnational\u201D or imperial style.
    </cite>\r\n\r\nI do not think it happened univocally this way. As printing with
    movable types was invented, Gutemberg adopted the textura because it was widely
    used as a calligraphic style, and he was setting a Bible in germany, at that precise
    time.\r\nIn fact, Italy remained mostly (entirely?) extraneous to the Blackletter
    use in typography.\r\nIn fact, what happened at Subiaco shows this mutual influence
    of cultural heritages: Schweinheim and Pannartz (which were German monks) turned
    the Blackletter back into less elaborate letter-forms setting the basis for what
    subsequently become our essential typographic letter forms.\r\n\r\nI try to translate
    what Piero Trevisan says in his 1953 book \"Storia della Stampa\" (\"A History
    of Printing\"):\r\n<cite> Coming from the dioceses of Magonza and Colonia, they
    (Schweinhem and Pannartz) came as the first books had already reached a degree
    of perfection and, given their origin, they should have cut purely gothic typefacses.
    But finding themselves among such a treasure of codes transcribed in native styles,
    especially in humanistic and carolingian calligraphy, they felt their benefical
    influence, and like all proto-typographers they mixed proud and necessity to create
    something personal. </cite>\r\n\r\nSimilar to what could happen if Latin designers
    would approach Arabic letters and challenge themself to design with more thoroughness.
    In this sense, the \"typographic matchmaking\" project may not be such a disappointing
    effort, if it has contributed to the awareness of the Latin-based designers which
    partecipated in it\u2026 Who knows?"
  created: '2008-12-31 12:12:35'
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: "I admit that I do not know the details of *how* some European chose certain
    style over another. But I am confident that national identity played a main role.
    In the East, choosing certain calligraphy (i.e. Nastaleeq) as the official style
    in specific lands was definitely linked to this or that Sultan, Shah, or another
    man in power who wanted to be differentiated from others. My post was mainly to
    indicate that such practice is counterproductive in today's world.\r\n\r\nClaudio
    wrote: \r\n\r\n>>As printing with movable types was invented, Gutemberg adopted
    the textura because it was widely used .. \r\n\r\nExactly, this supports my point;
    just re-write the statement: \"As computers were invented, producers adopted Naskh
    because it was widely used ..\"\r\n \r\nI am happy that computers have unified
    users of the Arabic script on one common style and I do not wish that any future
    advancement in technology (i.e. Tasmeem) would be used to reverse that. Instead
    it should be used to enriching it by producing other styles as typo-caligraphic
    varaieties.\r\n\r\n-Saad\r\n\r\n  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-31 16:25:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Saad: <em>I admit that I do not know the details of *how* some European chose
    certain style over another. But I am confident that national identity played a
    main role.</em>\r\n\r\nThis is backwards. Regional style of writing and hence
    typography became associated with national identity as the latter emerged as a
    modern phenomenon. Insofar as the printing revolution contributed to the development
    of the modern nation state, one can go so far as to say that typography played
    a role in national identity, rather than the other way around."
  created: '2009-01-01 02:20:08'
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: "John,\r\n\r\n>>..one can go so far as to say that typography played a role
    in national identity, rather than the other way around.\r\n\r\nIt is clearly a
    two way relation, but my point was that throughout history rules and even religious
    leaders had selected specific calligraphic styles to differentiate themselves
    from others.  The Persians had even used specific script styles to differentiate
    between society classes. Under Islam the Arabs quickly established the Early Kufi
    style to emphasize their new identity. Emphasizing national or religious identity
    was the main factor behind selecting a newly derived calligraphic style.\r\n\r\n-Saad
    \ \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-01 04:02:42'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I understand, Saad. I just wanted to clarify that the situation in Europe
    was a little different. On the religious front, for example, after the Reformation
    in Germany the blackletter style became associated with protestantism and the
    antiqua (roman) style with the Catholic faith. But this was not because 'religious
    leaders selected specific styles', but because during the Counter Reformation
    many Catholic books were imported into southern Germany from Italy (and later
    France and Belgium), so were set in the roman types.
  created: '2009-01-01 20:14:19'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Yes, despite deliberate appropriations, the richness of each cultural heritage
    remains a shared thing. The individual and the local enrich the universal, which
    gives them its shared higher value in return.\r\n\r\nColors, for example, were
    not used in protestantism, and black was adopted as the main color. But nonetheless,
    later on, black became also the default dressing color for the catholic clergy.\r\nAlso,
    most things pertaining to German culture became involved in Nazism, but continued
    to exist after the war (the interest in occultism and the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ahnenerbe|Ahnenerbe]],
    for example). It's also interesting to note how Edith Stein reflects upon Nazism:
    German hebrews were very fond of their heritage as German people, up to Hitler's
    prosecution.\r\n\r\nAssociations are unavoidable, but we should be able to keep
    them as an exterior element, and seek the unity. Saad, you can't imagine how often
    it's difficult to discorporate islamic terrorism from the public perception of
    Arabic culture and Islam. Here it's often of no use to point out there are immigrants
    which are better persons, serious and hard working, than many Italians.\r\nProvidentially,
    it's also the other way around: we have a new generation of children growing up
    together, and the few friendships which blossom also between adults are a precious
    thing.\r\n\r\nI will pick it up on the history of Arabic alphabet hopefully in
    a near future, otherwise I will never work on my stuff\u2026 :=)"
  created: '2009-01-02 19:47:17'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "2 Comprehensive books but unfortunately in Arabic Language Only:\r\nhttp://www.almanar.com.lb/NewsSite/NewsDetails.aspx?id=72693\r\nhttp://rapidshare.com/files/197960046/khatwakitaba.pdf\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-22 08:08:38'
- author:
    name: MahmoudShariff
  body: I think that this essay makes perfect sense. I am currently living in NYC
    right now while my son studies nearby. I am worried that he would not be able
    to understand Arabic because of the different lifestyle here in America but I
    will make sure that he would be able to read this entry.
  created: '2010-02-12 03:06:09'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Now that Titus Nemeth's [[http://www.tntypography.com/aisha.html|Aisha]],
    a revival of Marcellin Legrand's mid-nineteenth-century <em>Arabe maghr\xE9bin</em>,
    has won a TDC\xB2 2010 Award, I wanted to revisit this thread to ask how this
    maghribi typeface would be received by modern users in areas where the maghribi
    style was traditionally used. Would it be successful as a book face in Morocco?
    Or would it feel antiquated or quaint, like a German book set in fraktur, because
    users are so used to naskh being used exclusively for book typography? In short,
    what is a maghribi typeface's place in the world today?"
  created: '2010-03-12 12:32:51'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "I'm not dead yet\u2026 :)\r\n@Jongseong: Aisha seems a beautiful rendition,
    but \u2013 extraneous as I still am with Arabic \u2013 it looks a little too \"regularized\"
    as an interpretation of Maghribi.\r\nThanks for providing the link: it's very
    beautiful. :)"
  created: '2010-07-29 14:54:11'
- author:
    name: David Brezina
    picture: 110588
  body: 'Now you can get Aisha at: http://www.rosettatype.com/Aisha'
  created: '2011-02-24 15:27:29'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "No time to read the thread but if it hasn\u2019t been mentioned:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/Arabic-Typography-Huda-Smitshuijzen-Abifares/dp/0863563473"
  created: '2011-02-24 18:52:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>if it hasn\u2019t been mentioned</em>\r\n\r\n...there may be a reason
    why it hasn't been mentioned."
  created: '2011-02-26 06:26:23'
date: '2008-12-18 18:49:05'
title: Arabic Writing History

---
