---
author:
  name: raph
  picture: 109741
body: "I want to do a real quickie user study for my thesis, and would like your help.
  All you have to do is look at the curves below and choose your favorite. Then, in
  the thread below, tell me which one it is. It would be best if you don't look at
  the responses first.\r\n\r\nWhat are you looking for? Above all, smoothness (or
  \"fairness\" in the CAD lingo). Anything that looks like an unsmooth transition
  should be rejected. All these curves are fairly smooth, so you're just choosing
  the best. Another way to think about it is, if you put down points at the peaks
  and valleys and asked the computer to draw a smooth curve through them, which one
  would you prefer?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/aesthetic_4003.png]\r\n\r\nLater
  I plan to do this as a more controlled user study, with an interactive slider. But
  I want to get a rough idea of the range of curves that people find most attractive.\r\n\r\nThanks
  greatly!\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Nachos
    picture: 116245
  body: (1.5) and i'm not sure why.
  created: '2008-12-19 18:17:30'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "I like the 1,5 best, but when I try to draw a curve, the end result comes
    out something like 2,5 on the top parts and 1,5 at the bottom. \r\nHope this helps."
  created: '2008-12-19 18:19:46'
- author:
    name: letterjay
  body: 1.5 and I promise I didn't look at the other responses first
  created: '2008-12-19 18:22:49'
- author:
    name: Conor
    picture: 128161
  body: '1.5'
  created: '2008-12-19 18:28:32'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: '2'
  created: '2008-12-19 18:39:07'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: '3'
  created: '2008-12-19 18:40:15'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: While I'm feeling slightly seasick, I choose 2, but I suspect if you included
    more curves at either end, I'd probably go for the middle.
  created: '2008-12-19 18:46:15'
- author:
    name: skoob
  body: "I think it might be a mistake to present the curves sorted by \"sharpness\".
    The order might influence which one people choose. For instance, people might
    assume that the \"correct\" answer should be somewhere towards the middle of the
    list and so they ignore the top and bottom curves. It probably would have been
    better to have the curves in random order.\r\n\r\nFor your interactive test, you
    might consider e.g. presenting two curves at a time and ask the test subject to
    select the smoother one. You could also ask about other properties than smoothness,
    to hide intention of the study from the subjects. Things like, idunno, hard/soft,
    organic, natural/artificial, aesthetically pleasing. You could even throw in a
    few silly things like happy/sad or purple. Then again, asking for other things
    than smoothness might also make the subject focus less on the smoothness and make
    the answers less useful. I don't know.\r\n\r\nOh, and I liked 2.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-19 18:56:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: None of the above.
  created: '2008-12-19 18:57:01'
- author:
    name: Justin_Ch
  body: 0.5. It seemed friendliest. Plus it was the easiest for me to look at individually
    without being distracted by the others. I agree with the previous comment about
    presenting them in a random order.
  created: '2008-12-19 19:16:52'
- author:
    name: iginomarini
  body: '1.5'
  created: '2008-12-19 19:21:04'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: 1.5 or 2.
  created: '2008-12-19 20:15:03'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Well it's switches and ashes for you Nick : )\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-12-19 21:16:30'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 1 and 1.5
  created: '2008-12-19 21:55:05'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: 1 or 1.5
  created: '2008-12-19 22:13:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...switches and ashes...</em>\r\n\r\nAw Michael, don't I get any kudos
    for suggesting that in matters aesthetic a plain ol' peak-to-trough mathematical
    curve is not worth considering? Can't we have something more nuanced, more human,
    more attractive to ponder? Something more typographically apropos?"
  created: '2008-12-19 22:27:01'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Absolutely Nick. Picasso's line drawing of a nude would be better don't you
    think? I was going to put up my last EKG... I like the spikes better than the
    curves. It's edgier  : )\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-12-19 23:21:21'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: '1'
  created: '2008-12-19 23:22:45'
- author:
    name: claaspb
    picture: 111377
  body: '1.5'
  created: '2008-12-19 23:37:54'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: '2'
  created: '2008-12-19 23:51:10'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: '1'
  created: '2008-12-20 00:06:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '1.5 Smooth and not rigid. The lower ones feel a little stiff. '
  created: '2008-12-20 04:22:53'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: '1.'
  created: '2008-12-20 11:38:12'
- author:
    name: Elias
  body: "1,5\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-20 11:48:34'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "I must be nuts, I like 4. The zing ... hair stands on end.\r\nprgr"
  created: '2008-12-20 12:18:15'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: '2'
  created: '2008-12-20 14:21:20'
- author:
    name: spiral
    picture: 110473
  body: '2'
  created: '2008-12-20 15:35:00'
- author:
    name: pauled
    picture: 116415
  body: '0.5'
  created: '2008-12-20 21:06:52'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: I prefer the blue one.
  created: '2008-12-20 21:29:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Number 2 for me.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-12-20 21:31:27'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: 'Sorry but: nonsense question. Even with a category like smoothness at hand
    -- what kind of curve may fit best depends on the typeface one is designing. Sometimes
    rounder (0.5) and sometimes edgier (4) is more appropriate ...'
  created: '2008-12-20 22:01:01'
- author:
    name: Graham McArthur
    picture: 109915
  body: None, they are all ugly and mechanical.
  created: '2008-12-20 23:04:18'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: '2'
  created: '2008-12-20 23:18:02'
- author:
    name: solfeggio
    picture: 112465
  body: "1.5\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-20 23:40:49'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "1.5 or 2  ..which one is the exact sine curve y-sin(x)  ? I am keenly aware
    how illustrations in physics texts (including my own) sometimes incorrectly draw
    the typical wave-form sinusoidal curve as anything from 0.5 to 3.5  \r\n  "
  created: '2008-12-21 03:32:18'
- author:
    name: Jasonlee
  body: 2 i guess
  created: '2008-12-21 04:01:32'
- author:
    name: alphabetic123
    picture: 116493
  body: '2.5: the earlier curves look, for some reason, dopey, and the later ones
    looks too severe. I suspect the presentation of these curves creates bias, though.
    If you had presented the curves one by one, and I wasn''t looking at each in the
    context of all of the others, I might have felt differently. '
  created: '2008-12-21 06:01:26'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: Number 2.
  created: '2008-12-21 07:42:12'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "I would say I like all of these curves equally and see no reason or rhyme
    to choose any one in particular. I would say that but have decided not to because
    I don't really like any of them. Not just saying that because Nick said \"none
    of the above\".\r\n\r\nMy main reason is Raph is studying for a computer science
    degree. If this was for a Master of Arts in Graphic Design or Typeface Design
    it would have relevance to typeface design and typography.\r\n\r\nMy answer: none
    of them because none of this is relevant.\r\n\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-12-21 09:13:21'
- author:
    name: G T
    picture: 128201
  body: 1/1.5
  created: '2008-12-21 09:30:28'
- author:
    name: omar
  body: 0.5 but then again if this has to do with type design it all depends on the
    feel you are going for
  created: '2008-12-21 10:12:50'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: '3'
  created: '2008-12-21 11:36:59'
- author:
    name: TheMark
    picture: 109832
  body: "testing one two one two... two it is... but I do believe it depends on what
    the usage is... \r\n"
  created: '2008-12-21 12:40:43'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "<cite>My main reason is Raph is studying for a computer science degree. If
    this was for a Master of Arts in Graphic Design or Typeface Design it would have
    relevance to typeface design and typography.</cite>\r\nI think Raph's questions
    are in deep connection with Spiro, which is a nice way to draw glyphs \u2013 but
    computer has some limited and controlled freedom connecting main points, not knowing
    what is \u201Csmooth\u201D. Raph, am I right? I would like to read your thesis
    when you finish it.\r\n\r\nOh, and the nicest smooth curve is 1.5 \u2026 or 2
    :)"
  created: '2008-12-21 13:57:40'
- author:
    name: sdevans
  body: 1 or 1.5
  created: '2008-12-21 23:47:19'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: None seem quite right to me. I'd like to see something in between 1 and 1.5.
    At 1 and less the curves tend toward becoming semicircular while at 1.5 and up
    they look distinctly sharp to me.
  created: '2008-12-22 00:24:13'
- author:
    name: insomniofatal
    picture: 116498
  body: "0.5\r\nit just seems friendlier,  i dont know why."
  created: '2008-12-22 04:06:08'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "I'm with Nick on this one, but I do like the strobe effect of scrolling over
    the image quickly. Then, they all look good.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-12-22 04:39:47'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>I think Raph\u2019s questions are in deep connection with Spiro, which
    is a nice way to draw glyphs \u2013 but computer has some limited and controlled
    freedom connecting main points, not knowing what is \u201Csmooth\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nIt
    would help if Raph had explained that to begin with. He still has the opportunity
    to add this information to the thread header. \r\n\r\nHow about it, Raph? What
    is this actually for, and how does it relate to typography / type design?\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2008-12-22 05:36:20'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "<i>How about it, Raph? What is this actually for, and how does it relate
    to typography / type design?</i>\r\n\r\nFrankly, I'm a bit shocked and appalled
    at your parochialism. Making a mathematical model of how smoothness is perceived
    is uninteresting if the person doing it is a computer scientist? What of the pursuit
    of pure knowledge?\r\n\r\nThat said, yeah, this is for Spiro, and I've used these
    curves extensively in my own font designs. 1 represents the Cornu spiral, and
    2 and 3 are other shapes that can emerge from the four-parameter curve equation.
    All of these are instances of the so-called \"<a href=\"http://www.yoshida-lab.net/aesthetic/index-e.html\">aesthetic
    curve</a>\", which is coming out of Japan. I'm particularly interested in the
    family because I think going down the line (choosing a higher number) may make
    the curve solution more stable, less wiggly. Originally, I was thinking that existing
    models of perception of smoothness (such as MEC energy) would predict that 1 would
    be the smoothest and other exponents less so, and that I'd be sacrificing smoothness
    to get better stability, but now it seems like you might get both by choosing
    an exponent around 1.5 or maybe 2.\r\n\r\nHope you find that edifying, and I will
    definitely post a link to the chapter with the results when I get it done.\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-22 06:39:02'
- author:
    name: Tobias_Goth
    picture: 115315
  body: 'Number 2 is the one in my opinion. '
  created: '2008-12-22 07:39:35'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "Impossible to answer, it depends on how you want it to look and what the
    purpose of the curve is.\r\n\r\nA curve is nothing without a content."
  created: '2008-12-22 15:16:11'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Raph, I gave my answer based on the feel of the typeface I'm designing, and
    what I like--which might change. I think Karsten and others, though, have a good
    point in saying that what you will want will depend the look of typeface that
    you want. \r\n\r\nThus if you want the ideal tool for designers, it will allow
    designers to choose among curve type they want. This might be a nightmare for
    programming--I have no idea--but if you are after the most useful tool, that is
    probably the ideal answer. \r\n\r\nFor example I was very struck, when I was looking
    at drawings for Merganthaler Linotype Old Face--which are based on blow-up projections
    of old Caslon foundry type--that the curves were something that one would never
    think of drawing with Bezier tools. The curves were somewhat 'scalloped', probably
    reflecting their origins in punch cutting with gravers. Here on Typophile one
    fellow showed how he achieved this effect using Bezier curves, and it was quite
    inventive. And the resulting designs had the feel of old type better than other
    deliberately 'antiqued' outlines.   "
  created: '2008-12-22 16:09:24'
- author:
    name: daniele capo
    picture: 113718
  body: '2'
  created: '2008-12-22 16:54:45'
- author:
    name: seventy7
    picture: 111185
  body: At first I liked 0.5 but then I thought it was too geometric. the curves were
    too circular. My final pick is 1.5.
  created: '2008-12-22 17:21:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Raph-\r\nI merely accepted your question as simply as it was stated. I accepted
    that for the purpose of my answer, the Universe consisted only of the variations
    you posted without anything such as purpose or reason. I was hoping to make as
    naive a choice as possible with one quick glimpse of the choices. If there were
    a choice two-thirds way between 1.5 and 2, I would have picked it but since there
    was none, I chose 2. I made no decision based on type design or letterform curves,
    just a knee-jerk pick among the possibilities. Basically, I was just trying to
    answer your question directly.\r\nWhen trying to get data, variables are isolated
    and eliminated to try for clean results. To me, a curve is something without content.
    When you add a context you simply complicate the question (or simplify it depending
    on your point of view). The concept of \"smoothness\" is difficult to isolate,
    I admit. If you added 10 m ore curves, I might have chosen differently but again,
    I just accepted your universe as stated.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-12-22 17:23:22'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: I like 1.5 and 2, and prefer 2.
  created: '2008-12-22 17:43:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>What of the pursuit of pure knowledge?</em>\r\n\r\nWe get this rationale
    a lot around here with readability research.\r\nThe problem is that the scientific
    conception of \"pure\" knowledge skews towards that which may be expressed in
    simple numerical terms, which is, indeed, parochial, not to mention aesthetically
    banal--although of course these simple curves could be used to complex and interesting
    effect."
  created: '2008-12-22 19:17:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">The problem is that the scientific conception of \u201Cpure\u201D knowledge
    skews towards that which may be expressed in simple numerical terms, which is,
    indeed, parochial, not to mention aesthetically banal\r\n\r\nNot everything in
    science is expressed in numerical terms--simple or complex--and that which is,
    may be true, profound, and aesthetically significant. For example the Pythagorean
    discovery of the numerical relations of length of vibrating strings and what sounds
    harmonious led to the development of the Western scales of music, IIRC. Discoveries
    in theory of vision led to the Impressionists. "
  created: '2008-12-22 20:03:06'
- author:
    name: mimosin8
    picture: 114496
  body: i would agree on 1.5, seems like the transition is almost non existent
  created: '2008-12-22 20:33:49'
- author:
    name: Ampersanderson
    picture: 111498
  body: Number 2 it is.
  created: '2008-12-22 20:49:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Discoveries in theory of vision led to the Impressionists.</em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    that thought well represents how simplistic and self-important science can be
    when it steps outside its comfort zone.\r\nFor an alternative approach:\r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/Techniques-Observer-Modernity-Century-October/dp/0262531070\r\n\r\nRather
    than science leading to art, it's more likely that artists use science \"to replenish
    the supply of metaphors\", as Coleridge explained why he liked to attend Humphrey
    David's lectures."
  created: '2008-12-22 21:43:33'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "Does discusion about science vs. aesthetics even matter?\r\n\r\nI mean, type
    designer could have a choise between types of curves which he or she wants. Of
    course, Raph can choose \u201Cthe smoothest curve\u201D, but if there are parameters
    which can be changed by type designers (visually?), leading to perfect control,
    everything is just like drawing B\xE9zier curves. Although more user friendly
    :-)"
  created: '2008-12-22 22:27:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Does discusion about science vs. aesthetics even matter?</em>\r\n\r\nWell
    yes; hopefully I won't have to redraw those waves to illustrate my point.\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-22 22:39:56'
- author:
    name: Janic
  body: bah humbug!
  created: '2008-12-23 01:01:29'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Science doesn't influence art? So you don't use electricity or computers
    or or rely on its programming in producing your fonts?\r\n\r\nExcuse me, but here
    in implying that art is generally uninfluenced by science except by \"new metaphors\"
    you are talking complete rubbish. \r\n\r\nAccording to [[http://www.1911encyclopedia.org/Impressionism|this
    article]] the impressionists were influenced by Helmholtz's work on color. I haven't
    studied the history, but I believe it was explicitly discussed and referred to
    by them. As this article also notes, earlier scientific studies in perspective
    and anatomy also affected art. \r\n\r\nOf course people like Leonardo didn't separate
    science and art. That was the later bad development of the split between Positivists,
    with their narrow view of science, and reactionary Romantics, with their narrow
    view of art.\r\n\r\nI'm happy that Raph doesn't have such narrow views, and I
    have no doubt he is doing good work that designers will one day benefit from.
    \ \r\n \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-23 01:12:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/588_3763.jpg]"
  created: '2008-12-23 04:47:57'
- author:
    name: Qassim
    picture: 112950
  body: '3'
  created: '2008-12-23 07:22:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick etc., Raph asked a question about subjective preference among a given
    set of curved lines: out of this set, which do you prefer? He didn't ask which
    you thought was the best of a global set of all possible curved lines, and he
    didn't ask which you liked best in context of a specific typeface design (indeed,
    he didn't mention typeface design at all). \r\n\r\nThe difficulty I have in responding
    to Raph's question is that, since the line quality is so consistent in terms of
    the smoothness of the curves, it really becomes a preference between rounder or
    pointier shapes, between curvaceousness and straightness, and I suspect that preference
    is influenced by too many factors external to the presented set of lines.\r\n\r\nSo,
    when I say that I like 1.5 best, I am conscious that I could provide rational
    grounds for selecting any of the others instead, and I suspect that the reason
    I choose 1.5 is very arbitrary and ultimately external to the presented set."
  created: '2008-12-23 18:45:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "John, etc.\r\n\r\nI spoiled my ballot, and explained why."
  created: '2008-12-23 22:25:34'
- author:
    name: Damien Pollet
  body: "2 or 2.5\u2026"
  created: '2008-12-23 23:32:15'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"..and he didn\u2019t ask which you liked best in context of a specific
    typeface design\"\r\n\r\nAnd, in fact, this is a form that likely can't exist
    in any type design. So, we are left looking at nothing specific relative to type.
    If a section appropriate to type design, a subset of the curve for a particular
    form, is examined for usefulness or preference, the choices become objective,
    and perhaps it'd make some sense.  But I think preference for a line made with
    no purpose other than to test preference, is dangerously close to a preference
    not worth having or knowing.\r\n\r\nCheers! \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-24 13:57:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I would guess that the purpose may be more of one finding the place in a
    computer progamming way, where a curve-to-curve transition can be made without
    the need to add more points to the curve and still have a respectable transition.
    Perhaps it is like trying to find the optimum number of teeth on a gear for smooth
    rotation. We would be making the decision about the gear without knowing what
    machine it will be used in.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-12-24 15:39:15'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: '2.5'
  created: '2008-12-24 15:39:51'
- author:
    name: jabez
    picture: 112785
  body: 3 for me.
  created: '2008-12-26 03:30:48'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "1.5 or 2 for me.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-12-26 06:09:21'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "And now that I read the thread, I just want to say that I disagree with Nick's
    concept of \"pure knowledge\": specifically, the idea that it tends to be reductionist
    to the point of devolving to just numbers. How about the fact that the earth goes
    around the sun and not vice versa? The theory of evolution? The existence and
    role of the human bile duct? The organization and meaning of the periodic table
    of the elements? The fact that many elements of mate selection preferences by
    gender hold up across cultures, but a few don't?\r\n\r\nOf course, many elements
    of pure knowledge can be explained or expressed with use of numbers. But that
    doesn't make the numbers the same as the thing one is expressing with them.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-12-26 06:29:43'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: '1.5'
  created: '2008-12-26 13:09:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thomas, why are you presenting the idea that \"the territory is not the map\"
    as an argument against me, when it's the point I'm making?!\r\n\r\nThis is what
    I'm saying, that beautiful curves are complex, and that one should be wary of
    trying to express them too simply with mechanical devices.\r\n\r\nAs an aside,
    I mentioned the bias of science towards numerical description (with elegance preferred
    to convolution), which I fail to see how anyone could dispute.\r\n\r\nHaving experience
    working (1) freehand, (2) with analog templates such as French curves and ovals,
    and (3) digital BCP path-drawing tools, it seems to me that each of these methods
    has its constraints and freedoms. The constraint of working freehand is, paradoxically,
    that it is difficult to form regular shapes in this manner.\r\n\r\nI have been
    most noticeably confronted with the \"transposability barrier\" of curves between
    these three drawing paradigms when doing revivals, attempting to digitally duplicate
    the shape of letterpress forms. It is then that I find it necessary to add more
    and more BCPs. The most difficulty I've ever had was the top of Jenson's \"a\".\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Jensona_4080.png]\r\n\r\nI've
    no doubt that, in working with BCP software for twenty years, I've developed an
    aesthetic which runs in a semantic groove influenced by the parameters of this
    tool. I greatly admire Erik van Blokland for making many of his own devices.\r\n\r\nWhile
    it's possible to mimic the effect of analog media with digital tools, in going
    against the grain it is time-consuming and impractical, and also contradicts the
    old artisitic precept of truth-to-materials. So, and this should please the technological
    determinist in Bill, there is a style to digital scripts:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pb_logo_zest_4023.gif]"
  created: '2008-12-26 17:51:01'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>...why are you presenting the idea that \u201Cthe territory is
    not the map\u201D as an argument against me, when it\u2019s the point I\u2019m
    making?!</em>\r\n\r\nBut the fact that the territory is not the map doesn't render
    the map useless, it doesn't imply that the map does not relate to the territory,
    which is what your comments about 'pure knowledge' seem to imply. When you talk
    about the limits of particular tools in making particular shapes, then you make
    a lot more sense to me (although I've no idea what a 'semantic groove' is), because
    then you are recognising the ways in which the map does, in fact, relate to the
    territory: imperfectly but specifically. Then you are reading the map, which is
    a process of interpretation based on an understanding of the relationship of the
    map to the territory.\r\n\r\n[All of which is irrelevant to Raph's original request,
    which concerned preference among a given set of shapes, not a question about what
    constitutes a 'beautiful curve'. While I respect your right to decline to participate,
    I think you are presuming a goal and a methodology to which to object, and I think
    Raph's research deserves critical engagement, rather than critical disengagement.
    I too admire EvB for making many of his own devices, and I also admire Raph for
    the same reason.]"
  created: '2008-12-26 19:13:55'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "I see two issues here. The first has to do with fairing being a procedure
    focussed on adjusting the structure of the contours rather than a procedure focussed
    on the structure of features or feature manipulation of the black of the letter
    or the white of the word particular to a distinctive letter form. The second having
    to do with process. \r\n\r\nI think any digital design is all about fairing, but
    what is fair for a jensonian typeface isn't necessarily fair for a bodoni. Jensonian
    fairness may perhaps tend toward the fairness generated by algorithm a, while
    bodonian or shinnsonian fairness might have a quite different but still characteristic
    algorithmic structure.\r\n\r\nRather than being asked about my preference, I'd
    rather be made aware of types of fairness, and how the fairing guided by the eye
    in actual type-design circumstances focussed on the shapes of strokes and counters
    might tend to algorithmically defineable types."
  created: '2008-12-26 19:23:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...it doesn\u2019t imply that the map does not relate to the territory,
    which is what your comments about \u2019pure knowledge\u2019 seem to imply. </em>\r\n\r\nYou're
    reading too much into my comments.\r\nI spoke of \"skewing\", i.e. bias, towards
    simple numerics, not complete disconnection.\r\n\r\n<em>...you are presuming a
    goal and a methodology.</em>\r\n\r\nAren't you presuming to know what my thoughts
    are?\r\nIn fact I object to opinion polls on principle, whatever their goals and
    methodology may be.\r\nMy comments about \"pure knowledge\" were made after Raph
    introduced that idea to the discussion.\r\n\r\n<em>I think Raph\u2019s research
    deserves critical engagement, rather than critical disengagement. </em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    that's why I criticized this ad hoc opinion poll, rather than just jumping through
    the hoops, which would seem to me to constitute critical disengagement!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-26 19:49:19'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "For some reason the question bothers me. Perhaps because they all bring to
    mind implants, which I am opposed to. I'd rather enjoy small curves than phoney
    ones. Implants take all the fun out of a hug. Been there, done that. \r\n\r\nDoes
    that help at all?\r\n; )"
  created: '2008-12-26 20:11:38'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Implants, huh. That must be because you live in Southern California.
  created: '2008-12-26 22:42:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Oh well, I couldn't get my head wrapped around it and thought he was talking
    about hair implants :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-12-26 23:26:08'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>Implants, huh. That must be because you live in Southern California.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    guess. It is pretty common here. Ironically, I feel I need to speak up for common
    sense on occasion. To paraphrase a Douglas Adams quote about New Yorkers, if they
    did a list of the top 100 character attributes of Californians, common sense might
    sneak in at 79 (or so). There are much cheaper ways to get men's attention. Men
    are easy. Oops, did I give away the secret?\r\n; )"
  created: '2008-12-27 01:20:23'
- author:
    name: j_p_giese
    picture: 110076
  body: I find the question not easy to answer, but if have to choose one curve, it's
    2.5.
  created: '2008-12-28 05:00:11'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Yes, that\u2019s why I criticized this ad hoc opinion poll, rather than
    just jumping through the hoops, which would seem to me to constitute critical
    disengagement!\"\r\n\r\nAgreed! Preference implies some sort of context that does
    not exist here. In addition, there is something squirrel-y about having an opinion
    of pictures of an expression, that are sections of a piece of a part. I mean,
    presumably this does have <em> something </em> to do with type design, somewhere
    along the line, here on Typophile and if so, having an opinion of pictures of
    an expression, that are sections of a piece of a part, with no context... what's
    next in this \"study\", our preferred off-curve point angle? Or perhaps the \"best\"
    gray between 90% and 96%? :)\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-28 15:27:51'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "As posts are added to a thread, one comes back to view it a number of times
    over a span of time, and personally, I find that each time I have looked at the
    series of curves above, my preference (actually, let's call it \"the one I dislike
    the least\"... ) is different. I don't think I'd be all that unique in experiencing
    that.  \r\n\r\nWhat that suggests to me is that factors such as my mood at a given
    time, my level of alertness, if I'm wearing my reading glasses or not, or any
    number of other things are what is actually being measured and not my preferrence
    for one curve or another.\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-12-29 01:47:56'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...any number of other things are what is actually being measured...\"\r\n\r\nTo
    be precise, zero things are \"actually being measured\". \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-12-29 13:08:45'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "A few things. The term 'pure science' here is used to mean as opposed to
    applied science; the goal is true description and explanation, rather than practical
    application. However, true theories have immense practical application. There
    is nothing wrong with numerical description, if it is true. The advantage of quantitative
    description is that you can test it, and see if you are right or wrong. It is
    very difficult to capture complex phenomena quantitatively, but if you can do
    it, it is really powerful. For example the observed path of the planets through
    the sky is tremendously complex, but has been described mathematically. \r\n\r\nSecond,
    in defense of Raph, he said that this was an exploratory trial to get a better
    idea of how to design the actual experiment. He isn't drawing any final conclusions
    here, but getting an idea of how to proceed. Hopefully, both the responses and
    the critique here will be somewhat helpful.  "
  created: '2008-12-29 13:51:52'
- author:
    name: paulstonier
    picture: 114324
  body: 1 and 2.5
  created: '2008-12-29 16:31:40'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"He isn\u2019t drawing any final conclusions here...\"\r\n\r\nOh sorry,
    I changed my mind \u2014 I didn't like any of them, and now I like them all (really
    a lot). \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-12-30 12:54:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The one I like most is irrelevant.\r\nBut to me 1.5 is the most balanced.\r\n\r\nGoddam
    artistes.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-10 22:31:50'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Hrant, stop hating. It ruins you, it ruins the community. Stop beating up
    on peeple you don't happen to agree with.\r\n\r\nFor a man of your intelligence
    it's hard comprehend why you find it neccessary to hate anyone, harder still to
    understand why you insist on venting your hatred into the public sphere.\r\n\r\nTurn
    the other cheek and walk. Let it go and just walk away.\r\n\r\nHatred is contagious.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2009-01-12 03:14:37'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Turn the other cheek and walk. Let it go and just walk away.\"\r\n\r\nAnd,
    use email for anti-personal rants, we're not interested.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-01-12 12:57:52'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Since none of the curves can be seen in isolation, the peaks overlap the
    troughs, isn\u2019t the question marred by the the same effect as the old optical
    illusion of which is the bigger sword/bren gun magazine/AK47 magazine? Was that
    Raph\u2019s intention?\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2009-01-12 16:45:18'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "0.5\r\n\r\nBut I found the proximity of the curves a bit dizzying, so that
    may have influenced my choice."
  created: '2009-01-12 16:53:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "James, David:\r\nOK, I'm sorry. A burst of emotion is no substitute for an
    elaboration on the attitude that I find so harmful to the craft. It's that: time
    is short; and I've done it so many times before! However that might in fact mean
    I should leave it at that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-12 16:56:02'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: '1.'
  created: '2011-01-03 04:09:54'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I would go with 1.5, or perhaps, on reflection, 1. 0.5 clearly puts too much
    of the second derivative where the curve crosses the origin, and 4 clearly puts
    too much of the second derivative near the peaks of the function. Between 1 and
    1.5, the curve's acceleration seems more evenly distributed.\r\n\r\nAfter reading
    the responses, though, and finding out that 1 is based on the Cornu spiral, rather
    than any of the values corresponding to the sine curve, I suspect that doing a
    least-squares fit on your curve to a sine curve would be the way to optimize the
    parameter for the particular element to which I was assigning aesthetic value...
    but perhaps not, as the best fit to the sine curve might be a value above 1.5
    - since an even distribution of subjective change in curvature might differ from
    what would seem the objective choice (since the derivative of sine is cosine,
    and so on forever)."
  created: '2011-01-03 09:04:36'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: 2 (or 1.5 as a close second)
  created: '2011-01-04 18:29:49'
date: '2008-12-19 18:10:44'
title: Which curve is your favorite?

---
