---
author:
  name: Frode Bo Helland
  picture: 112295
body: Does foundries have clauses preventing type designers to sell their work on
  their own?  Say you want to support the designer, or maybe license another selection
  of the family offered by their foundry.
comments:
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: There's no one rule. Some type designers sell on their own, some through foundries,
    and some do both. Is there a type in particular you are looking for?
  created: '2008-12-20 21:59:17'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Nothing in particular. Obviously there's not one rule, but we have most of
    the big foundries represented on typophile so I might get an impression.
  created: '2008-12-20 22:10:25'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "It depends on the foundry and the situation. Some of the foundries have exclusive
    contracts because the foundry actually did much of the production work or pay
    higher royalties to keep a design exclusive. But for most vendors the basic rule
    seems to be \u201Cdon\u2019t sell the font somewhere else for less\u201D."
  created: '2008-12-20 22:26:44'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Generally speaking, foundries will pay more (either a higher percentage,
    or a flat fee, or both) for exclusive rights to sell a typeface than to be just
    one of many resellers.\r\n\r\nThere are other factors that go into this, of course,
    and different foundries offer different arrangements. MyFonts for example pays
    a relatively high rate for a non-exclusive resale arrangement.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-20 23:50:03'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: 'Interesting '
  created: '2008-12-21 02:38:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The assumption is that the foundries who do a good bit of marketing (or have
    a large market share) can give a smaller percentage because of their marketing
    expense. Designers hope to recoup more than the reduced percentage difference
    in increased volume of sales. Name Designers with a big following have more negotiating
    might (than unknown designers) and can get much better deals with big foundries.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-12-21 03:55:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...foundry...</em>\r\n\r\nWhy do we call them foundries?\r\nApart from
    the fact that no molten metal is involved, we're talking here about publishers
    who don't actually make fonts.\r\n\"Foundry\" gives the impression of fabrication,
    which is misleading.\r\nThese \"foundries\" too are resellers, licensed to resell
    fonts by contracts not much different than those between publisher and distributor.\r\nAs
    James notes, many font publishers do production work on the fonts they resell,
    but this may be compared to the editing of manuscripts done by book publishing
    companies."
  created: '2008-12-21 04:08:56'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Font Makers we are, not foundries. Thanks for joining the chorus on this
    one Nick.\r\n\r\nAnachronistic* nomenclature is one aspect of the font business
    that could do with updating. Why has the industry avoided semantic reform for
    so long?\r\n\r\n*anachronistic must be one of 2008's most popular words. Wikipedia
    <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anachronism\">article here</a>.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2008-12-21 06:34:20'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "The short answer is: it depends on the publisher. But there is <a href=\"http://typographica.org/001157.php\">more
    than marketing, percentages, and exclusivity involved</a>.\r\n\r\n> \u201CFoundry\u201D
    gives the impression of fabrication, which is misleading.\r\n\r\nThis is a good
    point, Nick. Perhaps I should change use \"publisher\" in my article. It's more
    accurate overall."
  created: '2008-12-21 07:20:07'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Hey, foundry is still a good word. I use it every day, especially in German.
    It is a good descriptor for companies that are in the type design or font making
    business. When I talk about someone (or some group) in the graphic design business,
    I don't call them a company, but a studio (or something else\u2026).\r\n\r\nWhen
    I speak with the Germans I work with, we use the English word \"Foundry\" <em>all
    the time</em>. Some examples include <em>gr\xF6\xDFe Foundries, kleine Foundries</em>
    (big foundries, small foundries). Or sentences like, <em>Sie sind keine Foundry
    mehr</em> (literally, \"they are not a foundry anymore\"\u2026 but we mean \"they've
    stopped making fonts\").\r\n\r\nGerman has its own word for a <em>real</em> type
    foundry: <em>Schriftgie\xDFerei</em>. But I can only think of colleagues using
    this work in the historical sense."
  created: '2008-12-21 10:28:39'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "In addition to Dan\u2019s thoughts:\r\nOne possible explanation why we Germans
    often cling to the English word \u2018foundry\u2019 might be the fact that native
    terms like \u2018Schrift(en)verlag\u2019 [font(s) publisher] or \u2018Schrift(en)vertrieb\u2019
    [font(s) distributor] are ambiguous. We use \u2018Schrift\u2019 for <strong>everything</strong>
    that has to do with the written word \u2013 it can be font, type, typeface, lettering,
    writing, script, but also scripture or writ."
  created: '2008-12-21 12:20:35'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "foundry |\u02C8foundr\u0113|\r\nnoun ( pl. -ries)\r\na workshop or factory
    for casting metal.\r\nORIGIN early 17th cent. (earlier as foundery): from found
    3 + -ry , perhaps suggested by French fonderie.\r\n\r\n\r\nIt might still work
    in German, but it long past time we dropped it in English in relation to what
    type designers do."
  created: '2008-12-21 21:52:15'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>. . . but it long past time we dropped it in English in relation to
    what type designers do.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt was rare for type <cite>designers</cite>
    to cut their own punches, that is *work* in the foundry. Besides, \"drawing office\"
    doesn't convey any sense of sweat."
  created: '2008-12-21 22:45:44'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: What new term do you propose, James M.?
  created: '2008-12-21 23:58:16'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Why do we need a new term? \r\n\r\nLet's just stop using Foundry."
  created: '2008-12-22 02:17:41'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Well, if we stop using the term,\r\n\r\n<cite>Does foundries have clauses
    preventing type designers to sell their work on their own?</cite>\r\n\r\nbecomes\r\n\r\n<cite>Does
    have clauses preventing type designers to sell their work on their own.</cite>\r\n\r\nMakes
    you wonder what bucks have. "
  created: '2008-12-22 03:41:53'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: 'As I recently mentioned elsewhere, we still "dial" the phone and "ship" packages,
    even though there are usually no dials or ships involved. It''s just how language
    works. '
  created: '2008-12-22 03:56:53'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "\r\n\"Why do we need a new term? Let\u2019s just stop using Foundry.\"\r\n\r\nHuh?
    Let's just stop making sense.\r\n\r\nMichael\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-22 04:02:13'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "There's nothing wrong, in principle, with using a word or phrase which has
    changed its meaning over time. A huge number of words have origins in outdated
    technology. A \"Font,\" for example, is literally set of metal pieces of type
    poured from one basin (font or fount) full of molten lead. But I don't hear anyone
    crying foul over using 'font' for digital type files. \r\n\r\n\"Font Foundry\"
    seems to be used these days to label a company that publishes digital fonts and
    is in some way involved in their production. So pure resellers of fonts like MyFonts
    are not called \"Foundries\", but sell fonts from foundries. And FontShop is a
    reseller of fonts, but FontFont is a foundry, etc. \r\n\r\nIf you have better
    terminology to distinguish foundries and resellers, James, let us know. Otherwise
    it seems that \"foundry\" still is a useful word.  "
  created: '2008-12-22 04:27:05'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "@William: <em>A \u201CFont,\u201D for example, is literally set of metal
    pieces of type poured from one basin (font or fount) full of molten lead. But
    I don\u2019t hear anyone crying foul over using \u2019font\u2019 for digital type
    files.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's because \"font\" is derrived from \"fount\", the original
    meaning \"source\", as in a source or fount of water bubbling up out of the ground.
    Since digital \"fonts\" are much the same thing as metal fonts were in being a
    source or supply of letter sorts in a given type style, we've hung onto \"font\"
    for good reason. It makes sense. It fits.\r\n\r\nHanging onto foundry makes a
    good deal less sense.\r\n\r\nI can't think of a lot of good reasons (none at all,
    really) for hanging onto \"foundry\" at a time when practically none of us are
    pouring metal into molds to make metal letter sorts. That's common sense. The
    objection to \"foundry\" mainly has to do with the activities of a font maker
    or type designer (a combined occupation now) having changed fundamentally since
    metal typefounders adopted and adapted \"foundry\" and \"fount\" for their purposes.\r\n\r\n<em>If
    you have better terminology to distinguish foundries and resellers, James, let
    us know. Otherwise it seems that \u201Cfoundry\u201D still is a useful word.</em>\r\n\r\nNot
    sure if you're referring to me or James M. I'll have a go at it anyway. Call \"foundries\"
    font makers or type makers. Call \"resellers\" vendors. Vendor can be applied
    to a firm selling fonts it makes itself, or fonts made by other font makers---as
    long as they're selling something they can comfortably be called vendors.\r\n\r\nRomance
    has a lot to do with this. Foundry has the same kind of traditional credibility
    attached to it as calling a seriffed text type a \"roman\", or a blackletter a
    \"gothic\" letter. If we start calling foundries font makers it may not sound
    sufficiently romantic for the baggage handlers in the business. \r\n\r\nj a m
    e s"
  created: '2008-12-22 05:27:25'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Let's drop leading too (no lead involved), upper & lower case (no cases anymore)
    ...\r\nprgr"
  created: '2008-12-22 05:44:08'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: 'Why drop what works? '
  created: '2008-12-22 06:31:23'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Too bad that the term \u2018font shop\u2019 can not be used in a generic
    way. : )\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2008-12-22 07:04:14'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>Why drop what works?</em>\r\n\r\nBecause it's stupid. If you think these
    things \"work\" maybe you're not thinking vigorously enuff.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-12-22 07:08:49'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "@Bert: <em>Too bad that the term \u2018font shop\u2019 can not be used in
    a generic way. : )</em>\r\n\r\nThe dictatorship of reason in the West at work
    in your font industry. Film at eleven.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-12-22 07:10:22'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "@Paragraph: Good! Somebody who wants to move forward. Leading and case terms
    are outdated , and more significantly *outmoded* terms, that could have been reformed
    long ago.\r\n\r\n@William: <em>There\u2019s nothing wrong, in principle, with
    using a word or phrase which has changed its meaning over time.</em> \r\n\r\nIf
    you say so. If you put it that way, I suppose it makes sense provided the person
    reading it doesn't question authority and elitist obfuscational technique. Give
    me a reason *why* there is nothing wrong in principal with anarchronistic terminology.
    Your statement reads like an opinion instead of a rational argument.\r\n\r\n<em>A
    huge number of words have origins in outdated technology. A \u201CFont,\u201D
    for example, is literally set of metal pieces of type poured from one basin (font
    or fount) full of molten lead. But I don\u2019t hear anyone crying foul over using
    \u2019font\u2019 for digital type files.</em>\r\n\r\nThis is false logic and an
    example of the dictatorship of reason in the West. Because not a lot of type folks
    are crying foul over using \"font\", we must be consistent and not cry foul over
    using \"foundry\", mustn't we?\r\n\r\nWe live in a time when double standards
    thrive as they have done for millenia, yet when it suits us as individuals we
    insist on consistency and all things being equal, when clearly they are not.\r\n\r\nThere
    are abstract nouns and concrete nouns. Verbs tend to be more abstract (in application,
    not origin) than even the most abstract of nouns. Ship and dial being used to
    describe noun-objects are examples of abstract verbs. Font is a somewhat abstract
    noun, as I explained above, being used as a handy, flexible, resiliant synonym
    for source. Abstract nouns are survivors who travel thru time even as the noun-objects
    they represent change in substance and techne. So we tend to hang onto them.\r\n\r\nFoundry,
    I submit, is not such an abstract noun as font. It's more concrete and specific
    to its origins. Font making techne has changed fundamentally, rendering \"foundry\"
    an outmoded concrete noun. Outmoded in the sense that the mode of operation has
    changed beyond all recognition.\r\n\r\nReform has to start at some point. If we
    banish \"foundry\" and replace it with \"font maker\", would that make \"font\"
    semantically retroactive and anachronistic? Depends who you ask and when. If \"leading\"
    and \"case (upper and lower)\" were reformed as well as \"sans serif\" (linear,
    for crying out loud) and \"foundry\", then \"font\" may seem the odd one out.\r\n\r\n<em>.
    . .metal pieces of type poured from one basin (font or fount) full of molten lead.</em>
    \r\n\r\nBasin no, sorry, these vessels weren't called basins, neither were they
    called a \"font or fount\". Crucible, melting pot, pot or cauldron, but not \"font\"\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2008-12-22 07:10:55'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Sorry, James. I was just kidding ...\r\nprgr"
  created: '2008-12-22 07:36:02'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "You may have been kidding, but I'm not :^)\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-12-22 07:48:05'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>Why drop what works?</em>\r\n\r\nIf you have something that works even
    better than the thing that \"works\", you might just be better off adopting the
    thing that works even better.\r\n\r\nScribes in the early 15th century might have
    asked a similar question to the one you're asking.\r\nQ. Why drop manuscript calligraphy
    if it works?\r\nA. A much cheaper, more economical and far more flexible alternative
    is just around the corner --- movable type.\r\n\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-12-22 07:56:00'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Track
  created: '2008-12-22 09:57:01'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: 'James A - I recommend the following exercise I learned long ago which helps
    to keep the conversation snappy and your audience awake: limit posts to 150 words
    or fewer.'
  created: '2008-12-22 10:22:07'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "What makes you think the audience is falling asleep? Why does the conversation
    have to be snappy? Why are you projecting your values onto me personally?\r\n\r\nWhat
    is your point anyway? My posts are too long for you personally? Or too long for
    everybody else?\r\n\r\nAll of this is getting too personal. And you probably won't
    answer any of my questions anyway.\r\n\r\nWould you say the same thing to Nick
    Shinn, William Berkson or James Mosley if one of them had something to say and
    took the distance their argument required to say it?\r\n\r\nNonetheless I take
    what you've said in good faith, even tho it does look like a pitiable, cheap,
    insulting pot-shot. That's what it looks like.\r\n\r\nYou missed.\r\n\r\nj a m
    e s"
  created: '2008-12-22 12:00:57'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Why do you care, Stephen?\r\n\r\nWhat difference does it make to you?\r\n\r\nIs
    this snappy enuff for you?\r\n\r\n<em>. . . conversation . . .</em>\r\n\r\nIt
    isn't a conversation, it's a debate.\r\n\r\nI think you'd be better off minding
    your own business and letting me mind mine, thanks.\r\n\r\nIf you don't like what
    I'm saying regarding \"foundry\", then mount an argument against it.\r\n\r\nIf
    you don't like what I'm saying to you, then we had best discuss it offline, because
    this personal shit does not belong online. \r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-12-22 12:12:40'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "We normally allow designers to market and sell their own work if they wish.
    We request they not undercut our pricing model, which they don't for reasons above
    the table. We understand why some font publishers want exclusive sales, as we
    do on some of our library.\r\n\r\n\"...we\u2019re talking here about publishers
    who don\u2019t actually make fonts.\"\r\n\r\nOh, sorry. Never mind.\r\n\r\n\"...font
    publishers do production work on the fonts [] but this may be compared to [the]
    editing of manuscripts [] by book publishing companies.\"\r\n\r\nAnd then the
    publishers send the manuscripts back to the author who composes, produces, distributes,
    markets, collects and disburses the funds to all with interest, including the
    publisher? No wonder authors hate them so much. \r\n\r\n\"Anachronistic* nomenclature
    is one aspect of the font business that could do with updating. \"\r\nIn a pigs
    eye. :)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-12-22 14:38:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "James A., I was referring to James M. who said we could simply drop \"foundry\";
    I was noting that it is sometimes useful. \r\n\r\nAs far as attitude toward tradition,
    I am very aware of the overwhelming debt we owe to our forebears in every field.
    As my old teach Popper used to say: \"If we started where Adam was, we wouldn't
    get any further than Adam did\"--meaning the stone age. \r\n\r\nI am all in favor
    of departing from tradition when there is a good reason--which may be just aesthetic
    freshness--but I think terminology that gives a tip of the hat to the past is
    charming and gracious. \r\n\r\nYes, I do know that few people tip their hats these
    days :) "
  created: '2008-12-22 14:50:29'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Publisher, Maker, Distributor, Designer, Manufacturer, Developer all seem
    to me to be better than Foundry.
  created: '2008-12-22 15:14:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "James M., as I said currently there are a number of businesses, including
    yours, FontBureau, Hoefler & Frere-Jones, House Industries, P22, etc. which both
    create digital fonts and sell them. And in some cases they buy fonts developed
    by others, but also have a development or editorial role. This multiple function
    today is caught by the word \"foundry\". Using any one of the terms you suggest
    is more precise, but doesn't exactly capture the multiple functions of these businesses.
    \"Foundry\" is less descriptive but it seems a more useful label at this point.
    \ \r\n\r\nThe problem with \"publisher,\" which is the best rival term, is that
    it doesn't capture what an outfit like yours does. You design the fonts, like
    a book author, and develop and market them like a book publisher, and retail them
    like a book store. So I say: more power to you and other foundries :)"
  created: '2008-12-22 15:30:49'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I couldn't disagree more William.\r\n\r\nWhat an outfit like mine does can
    be describe as  a \"digital type design and lettering studio\". It is not a foundry.
    \r\n\r\nMaybe its because I know a few sculptors and they are constantly referring
    to real foundries where they get their castings done.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-22 16:18:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'James M. "design and lettering studio" doesn''t capture the functions of
    marketing and sales of fonts, which you also do. True enough that ''digital type
    foundry'' doesn''t make sense literally, but it does work as a convenient label.
    So until a better label comes along, I''m afraid you''re stuck with it :) '
  created: '2008-12-22 16:51:13'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "And using a word that means melting and casting metal does?\r\n\r\nI'm not
    stuck with that. You are!"
  created: '2008-12-22 17:06:44'
- author:
    name: uppercaseH
    picture: 115755
  body: Fontry. Or fountry. You can even pronounce it the same.
  created: '2008-12-22 18:55:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u201D...we\u2019re talking here about publishers who don\u2019t actually
    make fonts.\u201D\r\n\r\nOh, sorry. Never mind.</em>\r\n\r\nDavid, we were, especially
    Thomas, who even managed to lump in MyFonts, a distributor.\r\nSo I offered an
    alternative to that dualistic, corporate-centric view.\r\n\r\nHowever many of
    the functions a particular business engages in, and whether or not it has workers
    on payroll or contract, there are three main business functions in the type industry:
    Authoring, Publishing, and Distribution. Isn't that the same for most forms of
    intellectual property?"
  created: '2008-12-22 19:07:21'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I\u2019m not stuck with that. You are!\r\n\r\nI think your problem with
    the term is historically short sighted: 'foundry' is a recent anachronism and
    'font' is an older one. Linotype and Monotype sold matrices, not fonts, but they
    called them fonts anyway, and you do now as well, even though that's not the original,
    literal meaning. \r\n\r\nThe way language works is that words and phrases mean
    whatever people generally use them to mean, no matter their origins, no matter
    what you or I think. \r\n\r\nCurrently the term 'foundry' is in general usage
    for businesses like yours. And you haven't come up with a clearly better one.
    \r\n\r\nIf you don't want to be stuck with people categorizing your business as
    a foundry, then you could start by getting MyFonts [[http://new.myfonts.com/search/terminal+design/foundries/?view=list|who
    lists your business under foundries,]] to change. \r\n\r\nThen you can work on
    FontShop and Fonts.com, who use the term the same way, as well as many --er--
    foundries who use the term the same way.\r\n\r\nThen you could be driven into
    the depths of despair over your inability to change the course of the English
    language. Or you could get over it :) \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-22 19:31:03'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "James Arboghast \r\n\r\nSorry buddy I stand firm and the word stay's.  You
    can call it what you want, but the name remains.  This is too funny how some of
    you get all \"bent out shape\" over the world foundry.  Thanks for the history
    lesson that I already know.\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-22 20:02:44'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Nothing to get over Bill. Although I've gotten over a good many  things these
    past few weeks. The fact that My Fonts lists my company under foundry is out of
    my control. I do not sell anything through them, and doubt I ever will.\r\n\r\nYou
    keep calling it foundry, I'll keep making type. I still think it is a stupid term.\r\n\r\nYou
    ever release that Caslon?"
  created: '2008-12-22 20:15:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I don't have a problem with \"indies\" calling themselves foundries, studios,
    whatever.\r\n(We use a lot of archaic words in the digital realm, e.g. \"scrolling\".)\r\nAt
    least \"foundry\" suggests the font production aspect of type design, i.e. manufacture,
    as opposed to packaging, publicity, or retailing.\r\n\r\nBut when a company that
    is primarily a publisher or a distributor is referred to as a foundry, that doesn't
    make sense.\r\n\r\nIn fact, that's what is confusing in Frode's original post,
    where the term \"foundry\" is used to describe both the designer's business, and
    the publisher's.\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-22 21:05:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "James, I'll call your outfit whatever you like it to be called. But those
    who are making lists of digital font makers and sellers will do what they do.
    I think that horse has already left the barn :) \r\n\r\nCaslon: Soon, very soon.
    \r\n"
  created: '2008-12-23 00:45:46'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "I switched to \"font company\" a few years ago. I'd prefer to be listed as
    a font company rather than a foundry but the font biz tends to favor old fashioned
    terminology so I'm often listed as a foundry. As for distributors of digital fonts,
    the term \"foundry\" is 100% ridiculous. I think foundry is well suited for font
    companies who specialize in historical type.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/foundry_3997.jpg]\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-23 01:59:58'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "typodermic \r\n \r\nSan Dimas California?  cool I stay out there! \r\nI like
    your font's I own a few.\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo_Design"
  created: '2008-12-23 03:00:31'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: Thanks but nope, Nagoya Japan. The San Dimas thing was just a  Bill & Ted's
    Excellent Adventure reference.
  created: '2008-12-23 09:50:26'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "@William: <em>Then you could be driven into the depths of despair over your
    inability to change the course of the English language. Or you could get over
    it :)</em>\r\n\r\nOr you could move forward and get past \"foundry\" and get past
    your attachment to navel gazing in a retrograde cul de sac.\r\n\r\n@Typedog: <em>Sorry
    buddy I stand firm and the word stay\u2019s. You can call it what you want, but
    the name remains. This is too funny how some of you get all \u201Cbent out shape\u201D
    over the world foundry. Thanks for the history lesson that I already know.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm
    enjoying this, coming from a guy who can't even handle an apostrophe. Far from
    getting bent out of shape, I bend and shape digital reality to fit my need, and
    I fabricate new wordforms where reality demands them.\r\n\r\nOthers here prefer
    to play with old dead things, standing on the shoulders of dwarves and releaseing
    a font at about the frequency of Haley's Comet. That's too funny. \r\n\r\n\"the
    name remains\" -- have any of you guys seen the movie <em>Lead Zapflin: The Font
    Retains the Name</em> ?\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-12-23 11:08:36'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Nick: \"...I offered an alternative to that dualistic, corporate-centric
    view\"\r\n\r\n..thing is, independent type designers, the branch of the industry
    I think you're alternating to, do not really publish other people's fonts. So
    when someone asks this kind of question, why do solo indies jump up and start
    gesticulating at Founders like we're an evil cram of hyenas?\r\n\r\nTerminator:
    \"Publisher, Maker, Distributor, Designer, Manufacturer, Developer all seem to
    me to be better than Foundry.\"\r\n\r\nBut a bit long in total, you know? \"We
    are Font Designer Maker Developer Manufacturer Publisher Distributors\", trips
    so ponderously from the tongue. Foundry says it in a word to the wise, and to
    those who are not it says whyzen up a word or two.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-23 14:31:09'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: Call yourself what you want to call yourself.
  created: '2008-12-23 15:09:10'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "James Arboghast \r\n\r\nWow sorry if I offended you, I know the issue and
    the word it self is not relevant anymore.  However, who really cares?  \r\n\r\naluminum\r\n\r\nKinda
    of funny no not really."
  created: '2008-12-23 17:19:06'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: It wasn't intended to be funny.
  created: '2008-12-23 17:22:27'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: Okay
  created: '2008-12-23 17:41:01'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "David: Thanks for the clear answer.\r\n\r\nJames: Internet conversation lack
    all the facial hints and vocal pitch that give away irony. Comments sometimes
    seem disrespectful, eventhough they were not originally intended to be. "
  created: '2008-12-23 18:31:15'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: I was refering to the publisher in both instances, btw. English isn't my mother
    tongue.
  created: '2008-12-23 18:33:05'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "hey all, i personally think that the term foundry, especially when used with
    type - like 'type foundry' or 'font foundry' is meaningful today for many of the
    reasons others have suggested. \r\n\r\nalso in regard to language changing over
    time, i highly recommend the documentry series 'The Adventure of English' \r\n\r\nhttp://www.madman.com.au/actions/catalogue.do?method=view&releaseId=8142\r\n\r\ni
    have it and it's really interesting to see how things have changed, or not changed...\r\n\r\nit
    often seems to happen that words we say all the time now mean something quite
    different from how they were originally.\r\n\r\ncheers"
  created: '2008-12-24 14:52:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It is raining cats and dogs in the Steel Valley but the TurnPike is still
    open. I saw the film credits and knew the Best Boy and Gaffer from school. The
    Iceman cometh to the 76ers this week. I can't Iron my clothes because the power
    is out. A Rose by any other name may still smell as sweet.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-12-24 15:30:20'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "Simon Robertson \r\n\r\nThanks for the link friend."
  created: '2008-12-24 20:23:30'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I wouldn't normally call MyFonts a foundry, but in the context of ff's question,
    his usage of the word seemed to include any distributor.\r\n\r\nIf the dividing
    line is creation/design/production vs other functions, any person or company that
    creates some noticeable chunk of the fonts they sell, or are involved in the production,
    seems worthy of being called a foundry. Certainly I consider my former employer,
    Adobe, a foundry.\r\n\r\nI certainly don't object to folks using other terms if
    they like. We'll see if eventually some other name becomes dominant.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-12-24 22:39:42'
date: '2008-12-20 20:52:10'
title: Does foundries have clauses preventing type designers to sell their work on
  their own?

---
