---
author:
  name: dinazina
  picture: 113020
body: "Hi,\r\nI'm designing a campaign logo for a colleague, his first campaign. He
  has low name recognition and an unusual name. \r\n\r\nI posted a bunch of tongue-in-cheek
  awful logos with inappropriate fonts for amusement, before getting serious. The
  candidate and his friends discussed them as serious proposals, which astonished
  me. So I had to make a disclaimer. Here's the list:\r\n<a href=\"http://digital-genie.com/customers/plants-logos.htm\"><strong>Campaign
  logo proposals</strong></a>\r\n\r\nActually, the logo design was quite a challenge.
  I wanted to avoid the usual clich\xE9s and butt-ugly campaign graphics <a href=\"http://www.artplusinc.com/politicalsamples.htm\"><strong>such
  as these</strong>.</a>\r\n\r\n\r\nWhat do you think of number 11, which is the last
  design I came up with?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dorsolplants-logo-root-5i_5104.gif]\r\n\r\nI
  wanted a image to increase the candidate's name recognition, obviously. (Luckily,
  Seattle is a plant-loving city.) I wanted a font that was distinctive, strong and
  \"masculine,\" yet had some organic qualities, to harmonize with the \"plant\" theme.
  The font is <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/urw/breughel/\"><strong>Breughel</strong></a>
  (designed by Frutinger). I had bought it awhile back, but ended up never using this
  odd hybrid of angled slab serifs and curved stems. I think it works here, though.
  The subtext is Raleigh, which to me has that same semi-organic look.\r\n\r\nIt will
  be in light and dark green.\r\n\r\nPlease comment - THANKS very much in advance!\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: imavery
    picture: 116598
  body: "Number 11 seems to be the closest to an actual appropriate logo for a candidate.
    It needs a bit of refining, but the others have too much of a gimmick.\r\n\r\nAs
    for no. 11, I would suggest moving the plant (shouldn't there be more than one
    plant?) to the right of his name. Moving the placement around makes the logo more
    about the name and less about plants. Having the plant on the left, and as tall
    as the complete name and the objective makes the logo more about that graphic
    and less about who should be for the city council. \"Dorsol\" also suffers from
    a lack of balance. Right now, \"Dorsol\" is floating as a separate element, and
    there is no tie to \"Plants\", which is your second most prominent element. You
    may want to make \"Dorsol\" the width of the \"Pl\" in \"Plants\" and have it
    sit on top. Take a look at your objective text, it actually works very well. Seattle
    is balanced above the capital \"C\"s as well as the lowercase ascenders.\r\n\r\nIf
    you are intent on making a reference/enforcing the plants to make it more recognizable,
    you may want to experiment with incorporating plants into the word Plants (i.e.
    taking your existing graphic and using it to tie \"Plants\" to the black area
    or \"Soil\"). This may be a bit more clich\xE9 then you would like to make it."
  created: '2009-01-02 10:09:19'
- author:
    name: James Deux
  body: "I agree with the general idea of imavery's comment.\r\n\r\nThere needs to
    be greater harmony, overall. Looking at this, we need to (think, at least) the
    elements are connected as opposed to just separately floating in space. \r\n\r\nI
    do think, however, you and your client's willingness to make a pun on his name
    are excellent."
  created: '2009-01-02 11:58:05'
- author:
    name: dinazina
    picture: 113020
  body: "Thanks for the comments...it's helpful. I'll continue working on this.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not sure why Dorsol is \"not connected\" as you see it. It's very close and the
    same font, so why would it not read as two parts of a name? Maybe the D and P
    should line up.\r\n\r\nI'll see if I can find a way to connect the plant image
    to the name better, on the right as imavery suggests, and still have the name
    highly legible. \r\n\r\nJames, name recognition is of primary importance to a
    candidate for office, so using an image that sticks in people's minds is very
    useful. It's just fortunate that my client has a pleasant-sounding name to illustrate.
    If his name were \"Buttski,\" that would be a problem. \r\n\r\nIn fact, number
    10 was my original design. Then my husband remarked that the two overlapping cloud
    shapes in the image, round to harmonize with the geometric font, looked like \"a
    butt\" to him. Maybe that says more about him than about the graphic. However,
    I altered it; but now that's what I see, anyway. \r\n\r\nThe tall \"l\" in number
    10 was supposed to suggest the Seattle Space Needle, highly stylized of course.
    But lacking <a href=\"http://www.seattlephotographs.com/photos/space_needle/Space_Needle_photo_gallery.htm\">the
    distinctive curve of the Needle,</a> it looks more like an ordinary skyscraper,
    which is the opposite of what my client is about. If I made it more like the Needle,
    it no longer looked like an \"l\", plus the curve did not harmonize with the geometric
    font, Stymie.  \r\n\r\nSo I tried the approach with the plant, which is the way
    to go, I believe. It distinguishes my client from others."
  created: '2009-01-02 17:46:00'
- author:
    name: imavery
    picture: 116598
  body: "I apologize, it was late and I wasn't clear. I'm not against the visual representation
    of the candidate's name, I wish more people running for office would be more open
    to breaking out of the boring yellowpages style. I think it makes them more human
    when they do something different, and less of just some office robot. What I meant
    is that the other samples didn't really focus on Dorsol Plants for Seattle City
    Council, but more on the feeling of something. For example, sample 2 doesn't invoke
    a feeling of comfort, but more of the plastic feel gotten from drive-in hamburger
    joints from the 50s, and at a glance it wasn't about getting Mr. Plants elected.\r\n\r\nWhen
    I am working on balancing my typography, I try to imagine what would happen if
    the words above suddenly fell on the words below, and determine where they would
    break up. For example, if Dorsol was to fall on Plants, you would have three different
    break points.  Your D would stay, ors would fall between the l and the t, and
    ol would then fall to the right of the ts. If you apply the same exercise to for
    Seattle City Council, Seattle would only have one break, but it would continue
    to be recognizable as Seattle. Actually, logo 10 has much better typographical
    harmony, but at first glance it's a graphic about Seattle, and not Mr. Plants.\r\n\r\nCampaign
    graphics are a hard subject to design for, because of the nature of campaigns.
    Often it's about name recognition and making it a memorable recognition at the
    time of voting."
  created: '2009-01-02 21:09:28'
- author:
    name: dinazina
    picture: 113020
  body: "Okay, here is another version using your suggestions.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dp-logo-root3-bw_4147.gif]\r\nThe
    plant image is now on the right.\r\n\"Dorsol,\" \"Plants,\" and \"for\" align
    on the left. \r\n\"Dorsol\" and \"Seattle\" align on the right.\r\n\"Plants\"
    and \"City Council\" align on the right. \r\n\r\nI think it is more pleasing visually
    and the word \"Plants\" predominates.\r\n\r\nThanks a lot!\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-03 05:39:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "1. I don't think upper and lower case works with the names stacked, because
    the top name is teetering, especially in the flush left treatment. Even if you
    had a really tall \"t\" (as in Franklin Gothic), that would still just leave a
    hole as the focus. It's unfortunate that the name has these letters, but you may
    have to find some other way to impart friendliness, other than U&lc.\r\n\r\n2.
    Are the roots really necessary? It suggests something to do with gardening/botany.
    In fact, what is that plant? Let's hope it's not a weed.\r\n\r\n3. Green color
    may be overdoing the conceit, with overtones of \"green\" that may not represent
    the candidate's platform.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-03 05:58:04'
- author:
    name: dinazina
    picture: 113020
  body: "Thanks very much for the feedback, Nick. \r\n\r\n1. I do think upper and
    lowercase looks more friendly and less pretentious than caps or small caps. But
    I will try a variation and see how it looks.\r\n\r\n2. I did start with the plant
    image without roots and it was okay, but I felt the plant looked a bit chopped
    off. I liked a reason to use a dark area at the bottom, it looked more solid.\r\n\r\nIn
    fact, the roots do symbolize the candidate's grassroots background as a community
    organizer. \r\n\r\nI did not use a flowering plant because that may be too \"girly\".
    Will it just look like a weed to the public? I hope not, I don't know, which is
    why I'm asking around. \r\n\r\n\r\n3. The candidate expressed his preference for
    green before I even began, so I think that is okay. So many campaign signs are
    red-white-and blue that this may help distinguish him, as well.   "
  created: '2009-01-03 12:28:08'
- author:
    name: dinazina
    picture: 113020
  body: "Here are two versions of the name in caps: with and without the root. [img:sites/default/files/old-images/dp-logo-2versions-bw_5170.gif]\r\n\r\nDoes
    it work with the first name in lower case? I think so. That prevents a too blocky
    shape of the text.\r\n\r\nThe LA in PLANTS created a bit of a \"hole\" but I set
    the two letters as closely as I could. \r\n\r\nHow about the long descender in
    \"City\" trailing off the edge?\r\n\r\nAnd the slighly curved \"horizon line\"?\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-03 13:32:33'
- author:
    name: dinazina
    picture: 113020
  body: "This reminds me:\r\n\r\nI met two female judges at my local Democrats, who
    were running for the same position. They seemed equally well qualified, and the
    Dems voted to endorse both. \r\n\r\nI voted for Holly Hill because she had <a
    href=\"http://www.hollyhillforjudge.com/\"><strong>the superior logo</strong></a>.\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-03 15:24:07'
- author:
    name: dinazina
    picture: 113020
  body: "How about two plants? \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dp-logo-2plants-bw_5235.gif]"
  created: '2009-01-03 15:51:57'
- author:
    name: Marcelo Soler
    picture: 115167
  body: "You got it, Dina\r\n\r\nMarcelo Soler"
  created: '2009-01-03 16:31:57'
- author:
    name: Marcelo Soler
    picture: 115167
  body: "From this:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dorsolplants-logo-root-5i_5104_4707.gif]\r\nto
    this:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dp-logo-2plants-bw_5235_5719.gif]\r\nyou
    amazingly improved your logo.\r\n\r\nMarS"
  created: '2009-01-03 16:36:21'
- author:
    name: dinazina
    picture: 113020
  body: "Marcelo,\r\nThank you very much. Not sure about the second plant, may need
    to tweak it a little so the shape reads easily from a distance. But I'm getting
    there. "
  created: '2009-01-03 16:51:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I think the two plants is neat, because it so very literally interprets the
    name as a noun rebus. Otherwise the reader gets to think too much about why and
    what Dorsal is planting. The wavy line softens up the all-caps name. I prefer
    the centred layout, however, and the fact that Plants is bigger in lower case--it's
    important to have the name big in small signs. If you were to tuck "Elect" into
    the space between D and l, make Plants a bit taller (condensed), and put some
    space between L and A -- the overlap is too designy and looks like a mistake.
  created: '2009-01-03 18:41:40'
- author:
    name: imavery
    picture: 116598
  body: "I much prefer the latest version. The curved horizon lends to the depiction
    of being soil for the plants and also softens the entire piece, making it more
    inviting. I think the left layout is a bit cleaner than the centered, but it could
    go either way and still be successful. I especially appreciate the adding of the
    second plant, it ties the graphic back to the candidate without requiring the
    viewer to have to spend additional time forcing the connection.\r\n\r\nI would
    actually think about cutting \"elect\" all together. It doesn't add to the message
    and just becomes one more element in the logo. If you're worried about if people
    are going to know to elect Mr. Plants, then I think you can still get that message
    without it. Then again, some people do need a little more direction than others.
    If you do want to keep it, I would disagree with Nick's suggestion of placement
    just based on the hierarchy. I would look at moving Dorsol to the right, and fitting
    Elect to the left of it in the darker green. The only other thing that bothers
    me is the City descender bleeding."
  created: '2009-01-03 20:47:56'
- author:
    name: dinazina
    picture: 113020
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dp-logo-2plants-2-bw_3490.gif]\r\n\r\nI
    think either of these could work, although the comparison here indicates the uc-lc
    \"Plants\" is easier to read at a glance. The new layout might improve it. \r\n\r\n\"ELECT\"
    may not be necessary, although when directed to the general public, you can never
    assume anything is obvious.\r\n\r\nI changed the bleeding y in \"City\" and shortened
    the descender slightly.\r\n\r\nI did move the L and A apart and condense the word
    \"PLANTS\" as Nick suggested.\r\n\r\nThanks so much for all the feedback! I simply
    can't get anything like this from non-professionals."
  created: '2009-01-03 23:40:10'
- author:
    name: TypographyShop
    picture: 114870
  body: "What about introducing a deep green as a solid, bleeding background color,
    knocking out the type and countering the background green with other greens for
    the plants?\r\n\r\nWhile this is a refreshing departure from most political logos
    I keep staring at it and see more of a \"For Sale\" sign, or a lawn care sign
    than a political yard sign.  Perhaps balancing the friendly and happy face chosen
    for the name with a more serious sans for \"elect\" and \"for Seattle City Council\"
    would tell the viewer that Dorsol knows that city council is a serious responsibility
    and that he can be trusted. \r\n\r\nOr you could set everything in Gotham. :)\r\n\r\nhttp://typographyshop.com\r\nhttp://kinggroupmedia.com"
  created: '2009-01-04 15:04:06'
- author:
    name: dinazina
    picture: 113020
  body: "Mr. Typography Shop, hmm, this is interesting and shows how very subjective
    a graphic can be.\r\n\r\n\"For Sale\" - well, the it's true the candidate is selling
    himself to the public, so it has to be noticeable, firstly. The plants image shouldn't
    be overdone, it's true. Just enough for people to remember the name. \r\n\r\nI
    could try reversing the type on a dark background as you suggest. \r\n\r\nI don't
    see the Brueghel font OR the Raleigh font as \"friendly and happy.\" To me, <a
    href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/btn/grilled-cheese-btn/\">Grilled Cheese</a>
    is friendly and happy! I see Brueghel and Raleigh as strong and solid, yet pleasantly
    distinctive. \r\n\r\nI looked for fonts that had somewhat organic, thick and thin
    variations in the letterforms, rather than slick and geometric - to harmonize
    with the plant image. \r\n\r\nI did first try several utiltarian sans for the
    subtext, and to me they just didn't seem to go as well with Brueghel.\r\n\r\nI
    loved the Obama campaign but I don't want to copy it. I guess you're kidding about
    Gotham!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-04 20:14:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Dina, I'd vote for the top one in your most recent post.\r\nWhile I agree
    that the \"lawn care\" criticism is valid, I would say that in this day and age,
    and for your candidate's circumstances (especially if going up against an incumbent)
    your rebus gimmick has way more pros than cons, and the understated manner in
    which you have handled it demonstrates seriousness."
  created: '2009-01-04 21:29:22'
- author:
    name: TypographyShop
    picture: 114870
  body: "Yes, the Gotham comment was indeed a joke.  Did you catch the Obama and Cigarettes
    post? Guess I had it on the brain.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-05 22:39:00'
- author:
    name: dinazina
    picture: 113020
  body: "Here's what I came up with. I think it looks good on a webpage, and will
    on a campaign sign or banner as well.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dorsolplants2009-logo-5i-ln_5848.gif]\r\nI
    changed to a similar weight font with curvier, more organic serifs (especially
    the S). I added the top serif on the A to better fill the space next the the L.\r\n\r\nI
    decided the 2 plants looked much better in sequence, rather than overlapped, and
    with fewer leaves. Now they are more like a border on the right side of the image.
    \r\n\r\nThanks to all for the help. "
  created: '2009-01-06 19:32:49'
- author:
    name: imavery
    picture: 116598
  body: "I have to say that I really don't like this latest version. The combination
    of the greens and the separation of the two plants kind of kills the overall design
    for me. Now, it's possible that my screen is washing out the color a bit, but
    if this was to presented on a green lawn, even with the white negative space,
    it may run the risk of being dismissed through color association. That's not to
    say that the choice in greens is bad, in other settings it could stand out from
    the crowd of red, blues and whites, then again, it may get over-powered by their
    stark contrast. For some reason, I was thinking you were going to use richer greens.
    I liked the overlapping plants, and think even in greyscale, they came across
    much clearer than the current version. The current version seems like it's going
    back to the same issues that were in the original version, only this time the
    plants don't have an obvious starting point as with the roots. They sort of make
    a backwards \"S\" as one continuous plant. It also leaves me wondering if the
    bottom plant is trying to offer some sort of depth of field. Because the bottom
    plant is vertical, and ends (or begins) at a lower point than the established
    visual ending  that was developed by the horizontal plane that \"City Council\"
    created by running in parallel with the dark green area (\"soil\"), this makes
    the eye think there is more to come. I can't remember the name of the term, but
    you want to keep your outer elements herding the eye back into the design, not
    away from it.\r\n\r\nThis is just my opinion, so please don't take offense. I
    apologize for that really long sentence towards the end.."
  created: '2009-01-07 19:35:35'
- author:
    name: dinazina
    picture: 113020
  body: "Ha! I wondered when someone would say: \r\n\"Well now it sucks, it was better
    before\".\r\n\r\nI don't take offense! Put several designers in a room together
    and you can get artistic differences of opinion on almost everything. \r\n\r\nI
    value different perspectives. it makes me explain WHY I made certain choices.\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~
    \r\n\r\nIn response to your comments:\r\n\r\n1. Color\r\nFor some reason the greens
    do look light here. The dark green should be deeper. \r\n\r\nI thought about the
    issue of the green sign blending into a green Seattle lawn or hillside, but I
    think it has enough white to stand out. Besides, with the name \"Plants\" how
    could it be anything BUT green? In the summer a lot of the grass turns yellow
    or brown, anyway. And it'll stand out on a button, since few people wear green
    clothing, or on a bumper sticker.  \r\n\r\nOn the website, I'm using shades of
    brown along with greens for a pleasantly earthy look, with a few accents of blue
    on things I want to focus on (like the \"DONATE\" link!).\r\n\r\n2. Plant images:
    The previous overlapping plant images really bothered me, as that seemed to blur
    and confuse the strong plant shape. Obviously this is subjective, since you think
    the opposite. But I have showed it to others.\r\n\r\nI'm not trying to create
    realistic depth of field, as the plants are the same size. That makes them iconic
    rather than illustrative (to me). \r\n\r\nI tried using a larger plant below,
    but (to me) the more realistic perspective was actually distracting and put the
    focus on the plants, not the name. \r\n\r\nI think the fact that the lower plant
    ends above the margin keeps it from leading the eye off the page. But maybe it
    could be MORE above the margin. I'll try that. \r\n\r\nThe way I see it, \"Dorsol
    Plants\" is the first focus, then below that \"Seattle City Council,\" then right
    to the lower plant leading directly UP to the top plant, which points back to
    Dorsol Plants. \r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n\r\nIf several more people say they don't
    care for this layout, I MIGHT rethink it. On the other hand, the average person
    is not a designer.\r\n\r\nI have to remind myself of this when I see passionate
    Typophile disagreements over the angle of an upper serif or a descender terminal
    (\"The 'y' looks all wrong!\") To most people, all Roman fonts are Times. All
    sans fonts are Arial. The only fonts they recognize as pleasantly novel are Comic
    Sans or Papyrus or a script. \r\n\r\nSo I have to ask a number of regular folks
    to comment as well. \r\n"
  created: '2009-01-07 20:22:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I too preferred the overlapping plants, they would make a nice enamelled
    lapel pin like that, or look good as the sole image on a button. Kinda stealth,
    eh? Thing is, a rebus is a symbol, not a decorative element.\r\n\r\nBut I think
    other than the rebus, the type and layout look great, very strong and direct.\r\nThe
    two-tone effect is a bit pale at the moment--you could actually go very dark with
    the darker green, and spec some interesting inks, perhaps with a bit of fluorescence
    for the brighter green."
  created: '2009-01-07 21:09:35'
- author:
    name: imavery
    picture: 116598
  body: "What about nudging the top plant a little to the left, closer to plants.
    With the stacking, it has the effect of a two-tone singular plant, which was what
    I meant by going back to the issues of the original. I liked the tie into his
    name, but the connection is diminished with only a single plant. If his name was
    Dorsol Plant, then it would tie in better. I hadn't considered the aspect of a
    pin, and what Nick was saying does present some interesting thoughts. I understand
    the depth of field, and your point about illustrative, however because the two
    plants are the same shade, they no longer create that depth. Because you know
    there are two plants, you'll see two plants. Also, I got the depth of field, but
    it came as question, and not intuitive. Going with a deeper green would offer
    better separation. This could then be used in other media to help reenforce the
    name recognition (i.e. pin with the two plants with \"for Seattle City Council\"
    in the same fashion underneath).\r\n\r\nI see you point about the overlapping
    plants taking the forefront of the stage. It also has a higher degree of contrast
    in greyscale. Try it with the latest color scheme, does it have the same upstaging
    effect?\r\n\r\nI forgot to mention the version with the Elect. I agree, some people
    in the general public do need a little more of a push, so if you want to incorporate
    the elect, you may want to look at a condensed version, but at the same height
    as Dorsol."
  created: '2009-01-07 22:06:52'
- author:
    name: dinazina
    picture: 113020
  body: "Thanks for the comments. \r\n\r\nHere I've tried some of imavery's suggestions
    to make it clear the image is two separate plants.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dorsolplants2009-logo-5i_3855.gif]\r\n\r\nAs
    for the button layout, that is always a challenge because it's round. And it's
    small, yet needs to be legible at a distance that the reader won't have to invade
    your personal space. I imagine the button could look like these:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dorsolplants2009-2buttns_4249.gif]\r\n\r\nNick's
    suggestion of a button that just has the plants image, instead of the name is
    clever; I suspect the voting public isn't as clever. At least not until my candidate's
    logo is as well-known as Obama's. \r\n\r\nBy the way, I was thinking of <a href=\"http://www.petergoldmark.com/index.php\"><strong>Peter
    Goldmark's</strong</a> button, here in WA state. The logo was fine, but it was
    simply shrunk down to button size from the sign graphic. \r\n\r\nThe line \"For
    OUR Public Lands Commissioner *D\" was about 8 point Roman type, white on lime
    green--all but invisible. Luckily, Goldmark won in spite of that. \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/goldmark_logo-1_4689.jpg]\r\nI
    want my candidate's button to make it clear what position he's running for. "
  created: '2009-01-08 03:51:16'
- author:
    name: imavery
    picture: 116598
  body: "This version looks much, much better.\r\n\r\nFor the button, you could probably
    get away with just Plants for Seattle City Council or Vote Plants for Seattle
    City Council. The white button would be cheaper to produce, but both look esthetically
    pleasing. My only suggestion, because I just haven't given enough yet, would be
    to move the top plant to mirror the bottom plant, but on the left of the button.\r\n\r\nPeter
    Goldmark's logo looks like a logging company logo to me. I can't really read the
    smaller text, but at that size it could easily be a long-winded \"Since The Continents
    Formed\" type of deal."
  created: '2009-01-08 05:12:17'
- author:
    name: dinazina
    picture: 113020
  body: "imavery, I think your idea of one plant on the left would be really attractive
    on the button, I'll try it.\r\n\r\nI see the Goldmark logo as a woodtype goldrush-era
    look. That's perfect because he is portrayed as having a rustic cowboy-with-big-mustache
    persona, a steward of the land, he's even ridden up to some events on his horse.\r\n\r\nThe
    microscopic type underneath though, is a dumb mistake by the graphic designer. "
  created: '2009-01-08 05:28:49'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "What about this approach to the name positioning/size? I'm not sure if it
    works, just a (rough) thought.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dp-logo-twp_4349.gif]"
  created: '2009-01-09 08:18:04'
- author:
    name: dinazina
    picture: 113020
  body: "Thomas,\r\nThanks. That layout is interesting, turning the 't' into a shorter
    character. I did prefer the upper-lower case, rather than all-caps, originally
    because it looks less pretentious.\r\n\r\nThis layout looks kinda dense though,
    and I'm thinking it would be less legible at a glance (for the general public
    and their easy distractibility). I'd prefer it for a book jacket or something
    artistic."
  created: '2009-01-09 14:33:03'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: " I agree it's too dense as it is there, but I think one could tweak it further
    by resizing/moving elements so they aren't so tight.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-01-10 09:14:13'
date: '2009-01-02 06:22:37'
node_type: forum
title: Political campaign logo - please comment, thanks!

---
