---
author:
  name: Ehague
  picture: 112252
body: "Almost any store that sells cigarettes on the eastern seaboard has elements
  from this campaign for Camel up right now. Is this shameless capitalization or am
  I reading too much into this? \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/386px-Camel_crush_steal_4846.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/obama-change_4211.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nAnd
  these ads are <cite>ubiquitous</cite> right now. "
comments:
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>Almost any store that sells cigarettes on the eastern seaboard has elements
    from this campaign for Camel up right now. Is this shameless capitalization or
    am I reading too much into this?</em>\r\n\r\nIt's an exploitation ad campain.\r\n\r\nIt's
    getting harder and harder to believe Obama can change America.\r\n\r\n*Americans*
    must change America.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2009-01-01 14:55:09'
- author:
    name: Stephen Rapp
    picture: 111901
  body: What struck me about the poster was the wording and image. Camel used to have
    a bit of a reputation for subliminal ads. That could be hype, but the "squeeze,
    click" combined with that image seems more gun like than a cigarette.
  created: '2009-01-01 15:59:39'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "We are getting ads from car dealers here using \"yes, we can\". It makes
    me want to puke.\r\n\r\nSharon"
  created: '2009-01-01 16:50:53'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "This is one of the classier knockoffs I\u2019ve seen. At least Camel licensed
    Gotham instead of just using Gill or Avenir."
  created: '2009-01-01 16:57:59'
- author:
    name: salisae
    picture: 111585
  body: "I wish there was a \"green\" message and the extra device in the tobacco
    was meant to protect others from the second hand smoke in some way\u2013then I
    could forgive them slightly. But nope, it's just a cheesy menthol option. \r\n\r\nMaybe
    they're trying to taunt Obama since he used to have a smoking habit. "
  created: '2009-01-01 17:43:11'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: ">Camel used to have a bit of a reputation for subliminal ads. \r\n\r\nYou
    see a gun? I see something else long and hose-like, squirting out fluid. Which
    ties in to the guy with the erection in the camel on the original pack.\r\n\r\nObama
    hasn't quite quit his smoking habit as I understand it. Menthol cigs are generally
    aimed at African-Americans. It's not such a stretch."
  created: '2009-01-01 18:05:33'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "apparently he still does burn a few each day:\r\n\r\nhttp://news.yahoo.com/s/nm/20081207/pl_nm/us_usa_obama_smoking_3"
  created: '2009-01-01 18:07:48'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Completely despicable \u2013 everyone knows he smokes <A HREF= \"http://mediamatters.org/items/200701180010\">Marlboros</A>!\r\n\r\n>That
    could be hype, but the \u201Csqueeze, click\u201D combined with that image seems
    more gun like than a cigarette.\r\n\r\nAnd there's \"the smoking gun\". "
  created: '2009-01-01 18:49:49'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">We are getting ads from car dealers here using \u201Cyes, we can\u201D.
    It makes me want to puke.\r\n\r\nAnyone with a two year old knows that Obama stole
    that line from \"Bob the Builder\". "
  created: '2009-01-01 18:58:52'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>his is one of the classier knockoffs I\u2019ve seen. At least Camel licensed
    Gotham instead of just using Gill or Avenir.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat evidence do you
    have they purchased a license to use Gotham? They could have commissioned a Gotham
    clone or used Gotham without paying the going fee.\r\n\r\n<em>I wish there was
    a \u201Cgreen\u201D message and the extra device in the tobacco was meant to protect
    others from the second hand smoke in some way\u2013then I could forgive them slightly.
    But nope, it\u2019s just a cheesy menthol option.</em>\r\n\r\nHow is a \"green\"
    message supposed to redeem an act of plagiarism?\r\n\r\nThere is still no solid
    proof second hand smoke causes cancer. Personally I know about thirty non-smokers
    who grew up or lived their entire lives in houses with full time smokers. Not
    one of them ever contracted cancer. There must be something in that.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2009-01-01 19:45:23'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>Anyone with a two year old knows that Obama stole that line from \u201CBob
    the Builder\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nPoliticians top the pile of greatest plagiarists.\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.thespoof.com/news/spoof.cfm?headline=s2i31534\">Bob The Builder
    sues Barack Obama for plagiarism.</a> A spoof news item.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2009-01-01 19:51:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>There is still no solid proof second hand smoke causes cancer. Personally
    I know about thirty non-smokers who grew up or lived their entire lives in houses
    with full time smokers. Not one of them ever contracted cancer. There must be
    something in that.</em>\r\n\r\nSure, and there are people who chain smoke for
    six decades who don't get cancer. That doesn't mean that smoking doesn't cause
    cancer, it means that some people are genetically less susceptible to cancer than
    others.\r\n\r\nIt is a red herring to say that second-hand smoke is not proven
    to cause cancer, as if this implies that second-hand smoke is harmless. It has
    been linked fairly conclusively to asthma, bronchitis, pneumonia, otitis media
    and other diseases in children. It doesn't necessarily 'cause' the disease, but
    it contributes to susceptibility and is statistically linked to increased occurence.
    Likewise, it has been linked to increase risk of heart attack. I recommend a search
    through the Lancet papers related to second-hand smoke. "
  created: '2009-01-01 19:58:08'
- author:
    name: salisae
    picture: 111585
  body: "How is a \u201Cgreen\u201D message supposed to redeem an act of plagiarism?\r\n\r\nTying
    a pro-active environment measure to Obama would certainly be a lot more reasonable
    than simply trying to gain sales on the coattails of his campaign platform. I'm
    not condoning plagiarism but we all know advertisers are simply mimics for the
    most part and tend to make campaign decisions based on thorough research of ideas
    that have proven success. \r\n\r\nAs far as the second hand smoke issue goes\u2013that's
    out of my realm. But I, for one, don't enjoy breathing it\u2013regardless of the
    health effects. "
  created: '2009-01-01 20:03:36'
- author:
    name: salisae
    picture: 111585
  body: How do you guys make type italicized in your replies? I tried <i> tags but
    those aren't in the allowed HTML tags list and I couldn't find anything in the
    More information about formatting options.
  created: '2009-01-01 20:09:40'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "<EM>Allowed tags below...</EM>\r\n\r\nEM is the one you want. \r\n\r\nCould
    have also used \"show source\"\r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2009-01-01 20:19:16'
- author:
    name: salisae
    picture: 111585
  body: 'Ah right, emphasize. It''s been awhile since I''ve coded with HTML. <em>Ta!</em> '
  created: '2009-01-01 20:40:28'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: We're going to start seeing this a lot. In my eyes, it's going to be a bit
    more tolerable than the radio ads for everything under the sun that have been
    constantly milking "economic stimulus package".
  created: '2009-01-02 04:48:39'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>There is still no solid proof second hand smoke causes cancer.</em>\r\n\r\nLike
    John, I don't buy that either, James. And it doesn't make much difference, because
    if you don't get it from second-hand smoke, you'll get it from all of the cars
    and chimneys that surround you."
  created: '2009-01-02 05:00:07'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Camel used to have a bit of a reputation for subliminal ads. That could
    be hype, but the \u201Csqueeze, click\u201D combined with that image seems more
    gun like than a cigarette.</em>\r\n\r\nUsed to? The drawing of the camel on their
    packaging <strong>still</strong> has subliminal images... They've never modified
    it, as far as I know!\r\n\r\nThe word \"gun\" can be interpreted more than one
    way... :-) Sometimes a cigar is <strong>not</strong> just a cigar!\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/camels_5461.png]"
  created: '2009-01-02 05:12:34'
- author:
    name: imavery
    picture: 116598
  body: "To be honest, I remember hearing about the Camel crush cigarettes awhile
    ago, and it was supposed to be some sort of reinvention of the company, and I
    don't see any correlation between Obama's campaign and the Camel ad, other than
    the word \"Change\". I think you're giving them more credit than they deserve
    in this particular case. Because of the prominent visibility of the term \"change\",
    you're going to naturally see it more than before. If women in a one-piece bright
    red bathing suit started becoming forefront in the media, you would probably start
    noticing those dingy, dusty Budweiser ads again.\r\n\r\nNow, I can say that there
    will be a flux in ad campaigns based on Obama's campaign because that is the nature
    of advertising. This is the case with anything that garnishes mass attention,
    I believe the term is \"jumping on the band wagon\"."
  created: '2009-01-02 10:32:39'
- author:
    name: James Deux
  body: "\" *Americans* must change America.\"\r\n\r\nThis should have been the realization
    from the very beginning.\r\n\r\nBut your insight is spot on. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-02 12:00:38'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: "On second-hand smoke:\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nrub3dt7R5U\r\nAnything
    that makes Penn Jillette recant has to be pretty solid.\r\n\r\nOn \"*Americans*
    must change America\":\r\nThat's exactly what Obama says, which is why I think
    he's going to help."
  created: '2009-01-02 15:37:04'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">\u201D*Americans* must change America.\u201D\r\n\r\n>This should have been
    the realization from the very beginning.\r\n\r\nWell I guess we'll never know
    - a few hundred years ago a bunch of Europeans turned up and their brand of \"change\"
    kind of messed things up for folks living here. :-(  "
  created: '2009-01-02 18:25:41'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">To be honest, I remember hearing about the Camel crush cigarettes awhile
    ago, and it was supposed to be some sort of reinvention of the company, and I
    don\u2019t see any correlation between Obama\u2019s campaign and the Camel ad,
    other than the word \u201CChange\u201D.\r\n\r\nDoes anyone know the timing? Maybe
    Obama stole the idea from Camel, perhaps on a midnight undercover cig run to his
    local convenience store? "
  created: '2009-01-02 18:28:25'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "@John: <em>Sure, and there are people who chain smoke for six decades who
    don\u2019t get cancer. That doesn\u2019t mean that smoking doesn\u2019t cause
    cancer, it means that some people are genetically less susceptible to cancer than
    others.</em>\r\n\r\nAh yes, we're getting into some useful logic here. I want
    to agree with your argument John, but I can't. I don't think medical science knows
    enuff about what really causes cancer for the \"susceptability\" syndrome to be
    a reliable or knowable factor. More and more evidence has surfaced that numerous
    kinds of virus are involved in numerous types of cancer, as both generators and
    pathogens. Probably you are right, but we will find out more as we look further
    into the nature and mechanisms behind cancer.\r\n\r\n<em>It is a red herring to
    say that second-hand smoke is not proven to cause cancer, as if this implies that
    second-hand smoke is harmless.</em>\r\n\r\nRed herring, yes, I'll pay that one.
    You make a good point about my line of reasoning. To clarify, I don't mean to
    imply second hand smoke is harmless. I'm more of the belief it's something we've
    yet to to fully understand the effects of.\r\n\r\n@Ricky he's so fine: <em>Like
    John, I don\u2019t buy that either, James. And it doesn\u2019t make much difference,
    because if you don\u2019t get it from second-hand smoke, you\u2019ll get it from
    all of the cars and chimneys that surround you.</em>\r\n\r\nYepp. So, why does
    the mainstream demonize cigarettes and tobacco but not other sources of environmental
    carcinogens? Doesn't anybody think that's a double standard? Furthermore (instead
    of saying \"that said\"), are double standards, an aspect of the dictatorship
    of reason we live with, really as bad as we make them out to be?\r\n\r\nQ. What
    happened to Voltaire's secular humanism and freedom of thought?\r\nA. It got swallowed
    up by the dictatorship of reason in the West.\r\n\r\n@James Deux: <em>\u201D *Americans*
    must change America.\u201D\r\n\r\nThis should have been the realization from the
    very beginning.\r\n\r\nBut your insight is spot on.</em>\r\n\r\nWhen the world
    outside the U.S watches your federal elections we're amazed by all the hoopla
    and ceremonial banners and bunting and carrying on of the campain and national
    conventions. Political messages and policy seem to get lost in all that. Obama
    had to have a message to ride on and for supporters to climb aboard.\r\n\r\nThat
    Americans must change for the U.S to change should have been the realization at
    the start, but employing that as a slogan at the outset would have been letting
    the cat out of the bag to soon. I believe it is possible tho, that Americans themselves
    can change their ways and change their wider culture for the better, and I am
    with you all on that one. I'm supportive, not antagonistic.\r\n\r\nAmerican foreign
    policy is the area of U.S. politics driven and controlled by the U.S industrial-military
    machine that must change. Northrop, North American Aviation, Boeing, Lockheed,
    McDonald Douglas, Colt Arms, the Springfield armory, Ratheon, IBM and other electronics
    manufactureres, Haliburton etcetera. Too many jobs tied up in munitions, warplane
    and firearms manufacture, too much investment in the implements used to make war.
    These are the industries and companies that buy senators and buy political influence
    to virtually set U.S foreign policy agenda.\r\n\r\nThat's just for openers, and
    of course there is much else in America that could benefit from change.\r\n\r\n@Sii:
    <em>Well I guess we\u2019ll never know - a few hundred years ago a bunch of Europeans
    turned up and their brand of \u201Cchange\u201D kind of messed things up for folks
    living here.</em>\r\n\r\nIt's never too late to try something else. Put the mistakes
    of the colonial era behind you and design a way forward. I think the biggest thing
    holding back change is the general fear of trying new things. Change isn't a hard
    thing to do to start off. Living with the changed circumstances is the challenging
    part\r\n\r\n<em>Does anyone know the timing? Maybe Obama stole the idea from Camel,
    perhaps on a midnight undercover cig run to his local convenience store?</em>\r\n\r\nI'll
    try to find time to look further into it today. I think \"yes we can\" is an old,
    old one from way back. Bob the Builder probably got it from somebody else and
    it will turn out to be an old proverb by anonymous. Camel branding communications
    taking up the slogan *at this time* is the exploitative part.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2009-01-02 19:36:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Is it shameless capitalization to use a popular typeface in a stereotypical
    manner?\r\n\r\nTimes have changed from when I first started in the ad biz (those
    not wishing to endure GenXYZ-bashing old fartism can tune out now).\r\n\r\nBack
    in tha day, it was a point of honor and strategic principle (enshrined in creative
    theory) that there should be a visible Point of Difference between brands, which
    in some way represented the Key Benefit that was presented to consumers as to
    why they should prefer one brand over another.\r\n\r\nSo product managers and
    creative directors made sure that each brand had its own creative treatment--and
    its own typeface, set in a distinctive manner.\r\n\r\nAm I correct in the observation
    that this practice is still followed, but to a lesser degree?"
  created: '2009-01-02 20:03:10'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>Is it shameless capitalization to use a popular typeface in a stereotypical
    manner?</em>\r\n\r\nThat's a loaded question. Using a popular typeface in a stereotypical
    fashion typifies things other than just shameless capitalization. For a moment
    there I read that as \"capitalism\". The best answer I can think of is, Top marks
    are given for mimicry in the ad biz now days, with ads for one brand imitating
    those of another brand. Looking back at advertising design over the 20th century
    evidently the principle of mimicry is not new, but there was a time, not so long
    ago, when better ethics interceded to limit the degree of mimicry.\r\n\r\n<em>So
    product managers and creative directors made sure that each brand had its own
    creative treatment\u2014and its own typeface, set in a distinctive manner. Am
    I correct in the observation that this practice is still followed, but to a lesser
    degree?</em>\r\n\r\nYes, correct. Yes sir. Visible Point of Difference began to
    take a beating starting in  the early 1990's at the ham-fisted hands of salad
    boys. \r\nJoke&#8212;What's the opposite of ham-fisted? A. Cheese-fisted. If only
    the salad boys I'm talking about understood they don't have to use ham in every
    sandwhich.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2009-01-03 11:13:57'
- author:
    name: TypographyShop
    picture: 114870
  body: "Reading this thread reminds me of the Adobe book [[http://www.alibris.com/search/books/qwork/790950/used/Branding%20with%20Type|\"Branding
    with Type,\"]] which among other things contained extensive survey results on
    the usage of specific typefaces identified with certain industries.  \r\n\r\nAt
    the time Apple was using their custom ITC Garamond condensed (eccch, I know) as
    were dozens of other computer companies.  Volkswagen's use of their custom Futura
    (of which I own a copy-Mmm-Tasty) caused many in the auto industry to use it immediately
    as well.  And Optima and its many humanist cousins appear to be the only typeface
    you're allowed to use if you're selling cosmetics.\r\n\r\nIt's up to designers
    to decide whether to be sheep and make Gotham so ubiquitous as to lose all its
    power through improper usage. I've lived through enough trends, watching colleagues
    hop on the latest faces that I see them coming a mile away and vow never to use
    them.  I'm pretty sure I know who did this ad, they're here in Philadelphia.  And
    they've never exactly been known for their originality.\r\n\r\nGotham's a beautiful
    face, no doubt about it.  And versatile as hell in the right hands.  It's been
    around since 2000, but its first exposure to the public at large as well as designers
    who weren't paying attention occurred with Obama. The word \"CHANGE\" set in that
    face has become as iconic as identifying Neo Contact forever with the word \"Marlboro.\"
    \r\n\r\nPatrick \r\n\r\n\r\nhttp://typographyshop.com\r\nhttp://kinggroupmedia.com"
  created: '2009-01-04 14:49:58'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<strong>Iconic</strong> has become the biggest buzzword for typophilers lately.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2009-01-04 15:43:09'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "I used to smoke Camels. Cool stuff. I even have a exact copy of a Camel box
    I made back when I learning the basier tool. The only difference is that the colors
    I used were primary.\r\n\r\nOnce a friend of mine showed me the images within
    the camel and couldn't believe it! I am sure that the artist who first created
    the illustration did not want any of that in there \u2014probably an accident
    that later on paid itself ...\r\n\r\nThese days you can see \u201Dchange\u201D
    in any cheap news-paper or home made commercial on tv.\r\n\r\nYeahah!"
  created: '2009-01-04 16:13:15'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I think [[http://www.refresheverything.com/|this Pepsi ad]] is trying to get
    on the same bandwagon.
  created: '2009-01-05 01:51:57'
- author:
    name: TypographyShop
    picture: 114870
  body: "I don't know if \"Iconic\" has become a buzzword for the typophiles of the
    world so much as it has become a buzzword in general usage in the business and
    media worlds over the last few years. Having been trained as a painter as well
    as a designer, the word has a dual meaning for me.\r\n\r\nWe're all unfortunate
    victims of the lexicon of the moment.  Why else would otherwise intelligent people
    be so enamored of the word \"AWESOME?\"  For more than half my life the word was
    reserved for such things as the Grand Canyon or Niagara Falls.  Maybe an apparition
    of the Virgin Mary or an earthquake.  But never, thankfully, was it used to describe
    French Fries or haircuts.\r\n\r\nI'm happy to see that this community uses the
    word sparingly.  And when it comes to our love of type, there are certain faces
    and talents for whom that \"a\" word would indeed be used appropriately.\r\n\r\n\r\nhttp://typographyshop.com\r\nhttp://kinggroupmedia.com"
  created: '2009-01-05 14:25:09'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: 'Getting back to cigarettes... This just in: <a href="http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/03/health/research/03smoke.html?ref=science">"Third-hand
    smoke"</a>.'
  created: '2009-01-05 14:39:57'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I think Pepsi was at least trying to make it a little less obvious. It\u2019s
    not a good campaign, tho\u2014the altered logo and crazy colors don\u2019t suggest
    Pepsi, and I\u2019ve seen their crazy orange billboards all over Manhattan and
    not been sure what they\u2019re even for!"
  created: '2009-01-05 14:42:21'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "This is turning ugly. I snapped this from the evening news last night. A
    couple of locals apparently so objected to the advertising that they pulled a
    pair of shotguns on a convenience store clerk. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IMG_2525_6163.JPG]"
  created: '2009-01-05 14:43:34'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: "The new Pepsi design is growing on me. It looks much better on actual packaging
    than it does in photos. And that ad is great.\r\n\r\nAlso, that Pepsi ad used
    Gill, not Gotham. But you already knew that."
  created: '2009-01-05 15:22:15'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "James, in one thread you've managed to try and get a debate going on the
    abilities (or lack thereof) of Barack Obama, questioning whether or not second
    hand smoke causes cancer, the legitimacy of large ad agencies font licensing,
    and the problems with the US Military Industrial Complex. \r\n\r\nWell played.
    ;)"
  created: '2009-01-05 17:44:12'
- author:
    name: TypographyShop
    picture: 114870
  body: Time to switch the topic to guns.
  created: '2009-01-05 20:46:38'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Darrel, thanks for the compliment, even tho I'm only one contributor with
    specialized interests and knowledge, and others on this thread with their own
    specilizations have added excellent material. We do it together and the best part
    is seeing so many smart peeple have an intelligent and eclectic discussion. It
    makes me proud to be a typophiler. I take my hat of to you and Ricardo, John,
    Nick, Patrick, James Puckett, Patty Fab, Sharon, Shari, Sii, Andr\xE9 and others.\r\n\r\nBut
    most of all thank you Eric for starting us off.\r\n\r\nPatrick&#8212;guns. Guns
    and firearms and the uses they are put to, and the politics of the gun in the
    U.S, constitute a special interest of mine. I'm out of time for the moment, have
    to finish constructing an angel, but I'll join you later.\r\n\r\nThere's so much
    to discuss about guns, so go for it. Don't hold back, as long as you keep it civil.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2009-01-05 23:01:32'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "Like, there is still no solid proof guns cause bulletholes? \r\n\r\n\u0192"
  created: '2009-01-05 23:19:33'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: I'm glad you took it as a compliment (as that was the intent). This is an
    impressive thread!
  created: '2009-01-05 23:50:20'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Dude, assumption of good faith counts for so much in our text-based environment.
    We sometimes disagree, but we don't need to be antagonists. Our shared interest
    in typography unites us.\r\n\r\nLet's make this impressive thread a good start
    to a better year for Typophile.\r\n\r\n@fredo: <em>Like, there is still no solid
    proof guns cause bulletholes?</em>\r\n\r\nHeh! As the cop-out \"proverb\" goes,
    'Guns don't kill peeple. Peeple kill peeple'. The second part of that statement
    is true, but the first part glosses over how much easier peeple find it to kill
    each other using guns, so it's a kind of non sequitur.\r\n\r\nDoes anybody have
    a transcript of the U.S. Constitution handy? Does the second ammendment grant
    civilians, \". . . the right to bear arms . . . \" or does it say, \". . . the
    right to take up and bear arms if attacked . . . \" ? I'm paraphrasing from memory.\r\n\r\nWikipedia
    article------<a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Right_to_keep_and_bear_arms\">Right
    to keep and bear arms</a>------is extensively referenced with plenty of inline
    citations for the important stuff, and since it deals with such a controversial
    issue the written content of that article was no doubt thoroughly contested by
    its editors.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2009-01-06 01:43:08'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em> Also, that Pepsi ad used Gill, not Gotham. But you already knew that.</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    sloping sides of M suggests it's neither Gill nor Gotham, actually."
  created: '2009-01-06 04:18:07'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Actually Pepsi had the swoosh in the circle red-white-and-blue thing going
    long before Barack was on anybody's horizon so they can hardly be accused of ripping
    him off. Altho I agree that their logo update borrows a page from his book.\r\n\r\nBest
    Pepsi campaign ever was the hideous 80s neon look which, when you stacked the
    three cans vertically, unmistakably read SEX, like Farrah Fawcett's hair in that
    poster."
  created: '2009-01-06 05:42:20'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>...unmistakably read SEX, like Farrah Fawcett\u2019s hair in that poster.</em>\r\n\r\nHer
    hair wasn't the only thing that read SEX in that poster... Ahem. :-)"
  created: '2009-01-06 05:53:41'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: I'm glad the topic turned to more important issues such as Farrah Fawcett's
    hair. What would be the best typeface to pair with her hair?
  created: '2009-01-06 15:23:34'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Gotham?
  created: '2009-01-06 17:01:52'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "uh, wait a sec\u2026 Obama and Camel aren't competing brands, are they? \r\n\r\nPersonally,
    I think corporations and advertisers have always seen advantages in both branding
    to stand out from their competitors and riding competitors' coat tails, if there
    seemed to be an advantage in doing so. There is certainly a long tradition of
    referencing current events in one way or another to create a connection beteen
    a particular zeitgeist and their products. Some people may call that a scandalous
    co-opting of the positive image and goodwill built up by another brand, and others
    may call it exploiting an opportunity. It's really not news when it happens. \r\n\r\nWithout
    discussing the health concerns that go with smoking or the promises of hope that
    go with Mr. Obama, which are not pertinent to a discussion about typographic branding,
    what get's peoples' ire here is that cigarettes and smoking  is a widely despised
    practice these days, and with the (quite obvious) co-opting of a piece of Mr.
    Obama's branding, the owners of the Camel brand are in essence saying that \"Camel
    ciggies, now include hope\"*, which is obviously a provocative thing to say to
    an anti-smoker. However, I don't think it is any more dishonest than other vague
    & unsupported aspirational promises made by thousands upon thousands of other
    products, including  politicians.\r\n\r\n*I dunno about you, but suggesting that
    \"Camels now include hope.\" is less offensive than the cartoon camel of a few
    years ago that seemed to say, \"Hey kids, smoking is FUN.\" By tyhe way\u2026
    The illustration looks like some kind of bong diagram. What up wid dat? \r\n\r\nTo
    make a discussion of firearms relevant on this forum, I think you'd 'ave to start
    off with... \"If modern life were a typeface, would guns be exclamation points?\"
    or\u2026 Like that. \r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2009-01-06 20:49:16'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "\r\nCan we make laconic a buzz word?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2009-01-06 20:51:29'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>*I dunno about you, but suggesting that \u201CCamels now include hope.\u201D
    is less offensive than the cartoon camel of a few years ago that seemed to say,
    \u201CHey kids, smoking is FUN.\u201D By tyhe way\u2026 The illustration looks
    like some kind of bong diagram. What up wid dat?</em>\r\n\r\nIt's CAMEL. It's
    BS. (Howz dat for laconic?)"
  created: '2009-01-07 05:18:52'
- author:
    name: rcc
    picture: 112031
  body: "<em>... The illustration looks like some kind of bong diagram.</em>\r\n\r\nSo
    perhaps it shouldn't be \"Camel Crush\" but \"Camel Rush\"? \r\n\r\nMaybe not.
    That'd just lead to sloganeering like: \"Hey, kids, ever had a kick in the head
    from a Camel?\" Or worse ...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-07 11:01:23'
date: '2009-01-01 14:28:50'
node_type: forum
title: Obama/Cigarettes

---
