---
author:
  name: James Arboghast
  picture: 111003
body: "-----<a href=\"http://www.abc.net.au/news/stories/2009/01/03/2458430.htm?section=justin\">ABC
  News story</a>-----\r\n\r\n\"By Europe correspondent Emma Alberici\r\n\r\nPosted
  42 minutes ago\r\n\r\nA group of high-profile celebrities in London have joined
  a campaign calling for an end to Israel's bombing of the Gaza Strip.\r\n\r\nSinger
  Annie Lennox led a press conference stating that the television footage of the attacks
  in Gaza had left her shaken to the core.\"\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
comments:
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: The never ending battle between two enemies with so much in common.  It is
    a shame that so many innocent people die because two groups cannot get along.  Split
    the damn country in half and make it two state instead of one, end this shit now.  Muslims,
    Jews, and, Christians, we are all the same.
  created: '2009-01-03 00:53:46'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Split the damn country in half and make it two state instead of one\r\n\r\nThat's
    what Hamas doesn't want to do. Their stated goal is to destroy the present state
    of Israel, and make it a Muslim state. Hence their bombing Israel *after* it quit
    Gaza, and the coup d\u2019\xE9tat against the Palestinian Authority in Gaza. Both
    the Palestinian Authority and Israel want a two state solution. So do many Arab
    countries in their plan. Hamas and the Iranian government don't want any Jewish
    state. \r\n\r\n  "
  created: '2009-01-03 02:55:06'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "It certainly is an ongoing mess and a terrible waste of life. Author and
    philosopher Sam Harris has developed a progressive way of viewing religious intolerance.
    From Wikipedia:\r\n\r\n<em>Harris acknowledges that he advocates a benign, corrective
    form of intolerance, distinguishing it from historic religious persecution. He
    promotes a conversational intolerance, in which personal convictions are scaled
    against evidence, and where intellectual honesty is demanded equally in religious
    views and non-religious views. He also argues for the need to counter inhibitions
    that prevent the open critique of religious ideas, beliefs, and practices under
    the auspices of \"tolerance.\"</em>\r\n\r\n-----<a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sam_Harris_(author)\">Read
    the rest here</a>-----\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2009-01-03 03:39:05'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> Split the damn country in half and make it two state instead of one\r\n\r\nIf
    you do not want to share your own house with me,\r\nam I given the right to kill
    you(r) children then \r\nsplit the damn house in half and make it two houses instead
    of one?!\r\nIs that allowed in Democratic US?!\r\nIs that allowed in Christianity?!\r\nIs
    that allowed in Judaism?!\r\n\r\nMore here:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/30209?page=1#comment-175307\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-03 07:47:49'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: 'It is a never ending battle for land that belongs to not one, but many.  I
    choose no side for both parties are equally  guilty of crime against humanity. '
  created: '2009-01-03 10:24:53'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "@William: <em>Both the Palestinian Authority and Israel want a two state
    solution. So do many Arab countries in their plan. Hamas and the Iranian government
    don\u2019t want any Jewish state.</em>\r\n\r\nIt isn't hard to understand why
    some parties don't want any Jewish state. The clock keeps ticking and more peeple
    are being killed, all the while the White House shows its bias by saying nothing.
    The Australian Federal Labor Government is conspicuous in its silence too:\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.abc.net.au/news/stories/2009/01/03/2458565.htm\">Greens pressure
    Govt to condemn Gaza Strip violence</a>\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2009-01-03 10:51:10'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> It is a never ending battle for land that belongs to not one, but many?!\r\n\r\nArab
    Muslims, Arab Jews, and, Arab Christians were living there peacefully before Israel
    was wrongfully created in 1948 and non-Arabs Jews were cheated to migrate to the
    land that never belonged to non-Arabs. Emphasizing, the land did not belong to
    non-Arabs, but Jews were brought to it from troubled corners from all around the
    world.\r\n\r\nDo you know why? To make it a never ending battle? Again why?\r\nTo
    keep on selling arms to the surrounding countries on the the condition that they
    would never use them against Israel that has been made at all times to be superior
    in armaments.\r\n\r\nIf it is still hard to understand why, I will comment more
    with Flowers.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-03 10:58:25'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Typedog, from a Jewish point of view it looks like the \"crime of Israel\"
    in the eyes of many of its opponents, including Hamas, is simply wanting to exist.
    The United Nations declared a two-state solution, and the united Arab countries
    did not accept it, and in 1948 tried to drive the Jews into the sea, as they put
    it. \r\n\r\nThere followed a series of wars and terror campaigns against Israel
    up until today. Israel was able to defend itself, which is not a crime to me.
    There was the high cost that almost everyone in Israel has a relative or friend
    who died in these defensive wars. \r\n\r\nIsrael also, led by Ariel Sharon, engaged
    in a long and brutal occupation of Gaza and the West Bank, which compromised it
    morally and, in my view, undermined its security.\r\n\r\nAfter this long history
    of war and folly there is finally acceptance of the existence of Israel by it
    seems most Arab governments, and agreement on a two-state solution--which was
    the original decision of the UN. \r\n\r\nHamas and Iranian leaders and other radicals
    still don't accept the right of Israel to exist. So when ironically Sharon himself,
    chief author and leader of the Israeli brutality that has taken place, stopped
    the occupation and pulled out of Gaza, Hamas's reaction was to make a coup d'etat
    against the Palestinian Authority and wage war on Israel.  \r\n\r\nYou need to
    understand that peace has been possible for 60 years if Israel's neighbors were
    willing to accept its right to exist. That is shown by the fact that when Jordan
    and Egypt were willing to make peace, it happened quickly, and the peace has been
    kept. It is those who believe like Hamas who have been the destroyers of the possibility
    of peace. \r\n\r\nI pray that the guns and bombs on both sides will stop, the
    killing will stop, today, and peace will at last come this year to all in this
    long suffering region. \r\n"
  created: '2009-01-03 11:21:29'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I remember, from a QI episode (Stephen Fry's trivia/comedy quiz), that Edward
    de Bono recommended offering them Marmite to put on their bread, the theory being
    that yeastfree bread contains no zinc, a lack of zinc makes people belligerent.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2009-01-03 11:40:41'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> The United Nations declared a two-state solution, and the united Arab countries
    did not accept it. \r\n\r\n1. Who created the United Nations?\r\n2. From where
    did/does UN take Commands?\r\n3. Did the map of the 2 states show the borders
    of Israel?\r\n4. Or borders were left to expand as far as the 2 Blues Lines?!\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    .. and in 1948 tried to drive the Jews into the sea, as they put it.\r\n\r\nHow
    could that be? Who tried to drive who?\r\nRemember Israel was created in 1948.
    \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n> Israel also, led by Ariel Sharon, engaged in a long and brutal
    occupation of Gaza and the West Bank, which compromised it morally and, in my
    view, undermined its security.\r\n\r\nAbsolutely true,  Ariel Sharon was a Bloody
    Terrorist?!\r\n\r\n\r\n> After this long history of war and folly there is finally
    acceptance of the existence of Israel by it seems most Arab governments, and agreement
    on a two-state solution\u2014which was the original decision of the UN.\r\n\r\nWhich
    one of those Arab governments was democratically elected?\r\n1+2 Mobark+Hosayan
    have been respectively ruling Eygpt+Jordan for more that 30 years.\r\n3. Tribe
    of Saud wrongfully converted the land of Muslims to a Kingdom\r\nand named it
    after their Tribe confiscating by that rights of all other tribes.\r\n\r\nMoreover,
    all the 3 corrupt Rulers have been backed by US and all backed Saddam;\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/29708?page=4#comment-171294\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    Hamas\u2019s reaction was to make a coup d\u2019etat against the Palestinian Authority
    and wage war on Israel. \r\n\r\nBut Hamas was democratically under the eyes of
    UN watching team.\r\n1. Was the team bribed by Hamas?\r\n2. Or the Majority of
    Gaza people were terrorists?\r\n________________________________________________________________________________\r\nP.S.
    I do not believe in Democracy but in True Islamic Leadership (Be it Arab or non-Arab).\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n
    \r\n"
  created: '2009-01-03 12:18:53'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Tim, that's a nice example of wit & satire used as incisive social criticism.
    Thanks!\r\n\r\nWilliam, thanks for the excellent summary / revision history.\r\n\r\nThere
    is something wrong with the world's most powerful \"democracy\", something basic
    and terrible, if the Washington has nothing to say about this horrific conflict,
    in effect allowing it to take place. Silent complicity!\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2009-01-03 16:50:54'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> Here's another example of the world\u2019s most powerful \u201CDemocracy\u201D\r\nhttp://www.wtv-zone.com/Mary/NEWUSEMBASSYINIRAQ.HTML\r\nThanks
    for building my country (with Flowers)\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-03 17:08:10'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "Thanks for building my country (with Flowers)\r\n\r\nIf not with flowers
    then with what? Some poor confused peasant strapped with bombs blown-up to the
    liking of Hamas?  \r\nRemember Husseini?\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/4-Husseini-nazi_jpg_jpg_jpg_3763.jpg]"
  created: '2009-01-03 19:57:35'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Thank you Aziz for that WTV ZONE link.\r\n\r\nIn the face of the complicit
    silence from the government of the world's most powerful \"democracy\", the <a
    href=\"http://www.abc.net.au/news/stories/2009/01/04/2458664.htm\">peeple have
    taken to the streets in protest</a>. More than 21,000 in Paris, setting alite
    three cars and overturning twenty. In London protestors lobbed their shoes at
    the door of #10 Downing street and yelled \"shame\" out to Gordon Brown, whose
    spokesman issued a bullshit press statement.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2009-01-03 23:25:26'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "@William Berkson \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nAgreed, thanks for the info. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design"
  created: '2009-01-04 01:35:45'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> Remember Husseini?\r\n\r\nReferring to the above picture, I have spotted
    2 nazi-crosses but failed to associate them with Husseini. Things do not appear
    natural.\r\nIs that a fabricated one?\r\n\r\nScrutinize it before replying.\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-04 06:19:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Aziz, the Wikipedia biography includes a detailed discussion of al-Husayni's
    Fascist and Nazi sympathies and collaboration, and his role as leader of radical
    anti-Jewish efforts in Palestine. \r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amin_al-Husayni\r\n\r\nHad
    Arab leaders had a policy of tolerance and taking full advantage of the talents
    of the new Jewish immigrants from Europe--as we in America have had for immigrants
    into the US--there would have been peace and prosperity, and by the way in all
    likelihood no majority Jewish state. Al-Husayni and other Jew-haters seem to have
    had a key role in creating Israel, though that of course was not their intention.
    \r\n\r\nAs to the Israeli war of independence, there is no doubt whatsoever that
    Arab countries attacked the Jews in an effort to eliminate the newly declared
    Jewish state. That was their declared policy, while the Jews accepted the partition.
    \r\n\r\nIf you accept the UN partition, there is no doubt that this was Arab aggression.
    Of course, you might interpret the partition as Western agression that the Arabs
    were fighting against. But the Jews themselves were not the ones starting the
    war. They were pawns in the game, though pawns who wanted to live and were willing
    to fight for it. \r\n\r\nAbout the partition itself, I have just been reading
    about it, and it's very interesting. The first thing to understand about it is
    that while the Jews and Arabs were the ones doing the fighting and dying, it was
    the big powers who created the situation. And that was true going way back: The
    Arabians conquered the near East--which if I'm not mistaken is why you speak Arabic
    rather than Aramaic--then the Persians and Turks and finally British had their
    turns as powers--which is why you and I can communicate in English. \r\n\r\nIf
    you just focus on demonizing the Jews I think you will radically misunderstand
    the realities of the history, and its true lessons. \r\n\r\nAlso the idiocy and
    tragedy of the initial years of Bush policy in Iraq is not all there is to democracy.
    Unfortunately democracy is no guarantee of good leadership; it does enable you
    to remove bad leaders without bloodshed, but only when the society respects democratic
    process. That respect for democratic process in turn depends on rule of law, education,
    a free press, and respecting the rights of minorities. Had you had these conditions
    for sustainable democracy, Saddam could have never remained in power for so long.
    \ \r\n\r\nAlso there is, unfortunately, little democratic control over foreign
    policy. When the British were developing democracy and were prospering at home
    partly because of it, they were doing all kinds of horrible things as colonial
    power which they would never do at home. An indication of the positive power of
    democratic influence is that even Bush had to listen to a democratically elected
    government in Iraq. "
  created: '2009-01-04 15:00:57'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Until the 1970s biographies of the mufti were written by Zionists, such as
    Moshe Pearlman, Joseph Schechtman, and Eliahu Elath, who attempted to vilify him...\r\nAnd
    the link you mentioned is not an exception\r\n\r\nHere are some extractions from
    a relatively less biased site:\r\nhttp://www.answers.com/topic/amin-al-husayni:\r\n\r\nAs
    a Moslem scholar/leader, Husayni sought to establish an Arab state in Palestine.
    Unable to end JEWISH IMMIGRATION, he led a violent Arab revolt (1936-1939) against
    the Zionists and the British but failed, as did his attempt to STOP the creation
    of Israel in 1948.\r\n\r\nBecause he feared Zionism would cause the eventual domination
    or expulsion of the Palestinians from their homeland, he participated in an anti-Zionist
    demonstration in 1920.\r\n\r\nIndeed, he cooperated with the British Palestine
    government in the 1920s and early 1930s, attempting to change British policy by
    appealing to the British and by holding a General Islamic Congress in 1931 to
    galvanize the Arab and Islamic world against Zionism and to goad them to pressure
    Britain. Instead, the British allowed Jewish immigration to increase to 61,854
    in 1935, which radicalized the Palestinians...\r\n\r\n\r\n> If you accept the
    UN partition, there is no doubt that this was Arab aggression.\r\n1. Proven today
    that UN is worse than useless.\r\n2. Israel+US have constantly proved to be UN-Resolutions
    Makers+Breakers.\r\n\r\n> Had you had these conditions for sustainable democracy,
    Saddam could have never remained in power for so long. \r\n\r\nHad US had these
    conditions for sustainable democracy, Saddam could have never come to power. We
    never asked for help. All we aske(d) not to disturb.\r\n\r\nUS created Sanyora
    of Lebanon against Narollah.\r\nUS created Abbas of Palastine against Hamas.\r\nUS
    created Al-Maliki of Iraq against Al-Sadr.\r\n++ created ...\r\n\r\n\"Get out
    of our land\" has been translated into a shoe-throwing show?!\r\n\r\n> An indication
    of the positive power of democratic influence is that even Bush had to listen
    to a democratically elected government in Iraq.\r\n\r\nA Big Joke? Iraqis has
    realized that they have been fooled democratically?!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-04 16:08:59'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: Is this better?  He had allot to do In planting the seed of evil in Palestine.  Nazi
    Ideology was supported by him and his followers.  Many fabrications can be made
    in photoshop, however this is not fake he wanted and did form an alliance with
    Hitler in-order to derail the Jews train to Palestine. If you do not believe me
    do the research.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mufti_6663.jpg]
  created: '2009-01-05 01:27:37'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> Many fabrications can be made in photoshop\r\n\r\n... as done to the first
    picture you posted.\r\n\r\n2nd. In <a href=\"http://almanar.com.lb/NewsSite/HomePage.aspx?language=en\">Islam</a>\r\n1.
    Fighting defensively+morally in the way of God is a must.\r\n2. Starting a war
    aggressively for any reason is forbidden.\r\n3. Working against 1+2 is hypocrisy.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/OlMobarak_4169.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/Tantawi_3421.jpg]\r\n\r\n4.
    Islam holds the Sate + Religious Authority inseparable.\r\n5. The 2 heads \u2014
    State + Religious Authority\u2014 could be be One.\r\n6. The 2 heads complements
    one another.\r\n7. The Religious Authority has to interfere if the State affairs
    worsen.\r\n8. The State is not allowed to interfere in the affairs of Religious
    Authority.\r\n\r\nThe enemy of God exploit Religion + corrupt in the land:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/29708?page=4#comment-172838\r\nhttp://www.independent.co.uk/opinion/commentators/fisk/robert-fisk-the-rotten-state-of-egypt-is-too-powerless-and-corrupt-to-act-1220048.html\r\n____________________________________\r\n\r\n1.
    Does your religion hold the Sate + Religious Authority separable or inseparable?\r\n2.
    Could the 2 heads \u2014 State + Religious Authority\u2014 be One?\r\n3. Should
    the 2 heads go complementary or in different/opposite directions?\r\n4. Is the
    Religious Authority allowed to interfere in the State affairs?\r\n5. Is the State
    allowed to interfere in the affairs of Religious Authority?\r\n____________________________________\r\nShort
    + Accurate Answers without mix-up, please!\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-05 06:20:04'
- author:
    name: Micha Mirck
  body: "the big question for us should be; can we help both parties with good typography?\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-05 08:17:34'
- author:
    name: ak
  body: "people! please take this elsewhere.\r\nsome us would appreciate a respite\r\nfrom
    the awful daily news."
  created: '2009-01-05 09:18:44'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "ak, you are at liberty to ignore this thread. We have freedom of speech here
    at typophile and my typophile blog is no exception. If this discussion is offputting
    for you then please ignore it & walk away.\r\n\r\nThis thread exists because,
    like all the other peeple protesting the hell on earth in Gaza, I am outraged,
    sickened, utterly disgusted by the violence & bloodshed.\r\n\r\nMicha&#8212;that's
    a nice idea, if everybody could give that some thought.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2009-01-05 09:44:37'
- author:
    name: dontbugme
    picture: 110809
  body: "\"Both the Palestinian Authority and Israel want a two state solution.\"\r\n\r\nThat
    is categorically untrue. It was always (and is) in Israels power to make two states,
    but it willfully chose to expand its own territory through settlements and territorial
    expansion using walls and Israeli citizens as a tool of colonialism. Whenever
    it has offered a two-state solution, it has been in terms that would be unacceptably
    to any state or people. To put a long story short, Israel is no different than
    Hamas in thinking that it owns exclusive rights to Israel and Palestinian territory,
    and if you think the Israelis are willing to co-exist with the Palestinians you
    are sadly mistaken - this is the very reason they have explicitly denied the Palestinians
    their right to return to their homes in Israel (and the very reason they are not
    recognized as citizens of any state)."
  created: '2009-01-05 13:24:55'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "@ Dontbugme: ..they have explicitly denied the Palestinians their right\r\nto
    return to their homes in Israel... \r\n\r\n... because their homes were confiscated
    to HIGHLY TALENTED NEW JEWISH IMMIGRANTS from Europe\r\n\r\n@ William Berkson:
    Had Arab leaders had a policy of tolerance and taking \r\nfull advantage of the
    talents of the new Jewish immigrants from Europe...\r\n\r\nHope Dontbugme has
    answered you.\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-05 14:58:37'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Aziz, dontbugme is wrong about the history, but I don''t time to post right
    now, and give references and links. I will later. '
  created: '2009-01-05 15:31:09'
- author:
    name: J. Craigen
    picture: 114061
  body: "ak\u2014some of us enjoy the respite from the awful daily apathy. It's nice
    to have somewhere with a variety of sources being referenced and an open, tolerant,
    and intelligent discussion. If you don't want a part of it, don't click on it."
  created: '2009-01-05 17:23:29'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I'll agree that a thread like this is dangerous, but putting it a blog is
    probably the only place it belongs on Typophile. Please consider this an intellectual
    discussion and leave play school antics at the door.
  created: '2009-01-05 19:03:51'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "AzizMostafa \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nNo the photo's are as real as the problem
    that continues in Israel.  \r\n\r\n>Starting a war aggressively for any reason
    is forbidden+Hamas\r\n\r\nThere are two sides to a coin\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design"
  created: '2009-01-05 20:28:55'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Is the State allowed to interfere in the affairs of Religious Authority?\"\r\nThe
    struggle by religions to govern the material and by states to govern the spiritual,
    just is, and they work it out or not. Or, do you mean, can one country allow some
    of it citizens to lob rockets into Israel on Christmas Day? Or, do you mean, can
    a State take an equally prized parcel of holy property away from one Religious
    Authority and give it to another?\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-06 15:04:03'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Where does typography and type design have anything to do with politics?\r\n\r\nHamas
    are cowards, like anyone hiding behind the veil of terrorism. Yes, Hamas are cowards,
    whose choice victims are innocent civilians.\r\n\r\nIt is huge hypocracy to condemn
    Israel's efforts to destroy Hamas, when these same voices which criticize Israel,
    are silent when Hamas missiles are aimed at Israeli citizens.\r\n\r\nLet us not
    forget that the people of Gaza elected Hamas, and support them to this day.\r\n\r\nGet
    off the hypocritical soap box, dump Hamas into the trash can (trash is too good
    for them, although they are filthy garbage), and peace will follow.\r\n\r\n(Have
    an easy fast.)"
  created: '2009-01-06 15:52:19'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "Forty plus years HOT potato!\r\n\r\nIt is Goliah agaisnt the little guy!
    Interestingly enough is the timing : US is on a transition.\r\n\r\nEnd quotes."
  created: '2009-01-06 15:58:06'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "AGL,\r\n\r\nGoliah was an evil human monster. His interest was ONLY harm.\r\n\r\nKing
    David was the defender of Israel's honor and protector of his people.\r\n\r\nTo
    twist each other's role is deceitful.\r\n\r\nIn the Hagada (booklet read of Passover),
    we Jews state that in every generation, enemies like Hamas rise up against, and
    are destroyed.\r\n\r\nMay the decietful not stand in the way. Yes, you."
  created: '2009-01-06 18:52:27'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "The only solution is two create TWO countries, separate religion from state.
    \ \r\nRid the country of it's evil elements on both side's.  \r\nThe country houses
    not one religion, but three major religions.  \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-06 19:21:34'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "The solution is teach Hamas that they must live with others who reject their
    views, namely Jews.\r\n\r\nBut can you teach an old dog a new trick?\r\n\r\nI
    think an Islamic fanatic who worships Jewish blood that spills can not be taught
    anything except when a bullet rests in his head!\r\n\r\nOnly after this happens,
    then the Islamic fanatic realizes that Allah wishes him or her dead."
  created: '2009-01-06 20:15:02'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">Where does typography and type design have anything to do with politics?\r\n\r\nWhat
    excludes typographers and type designers from having an <em>interest</em> in those
    who govern us?\r\n\r\nWould it be anti-democratic to note that past elections
    and future elections loom over this whole fiasco, and that if the enfranchised
    do not take an active interest in their politicians they are just as guilty as
    their <em>representatives</em>. The coincidence of lame ducks and the possibly-soon-to-be-unempowered
    is creating an atmosphere that can be exploited for the purposes of garnering
    positive public opinion and reaction. Would the overwhelming reaction to Hamas\u2019
    rockets have anything to do with the relatively ineffective action taken in 2006
    in Lebanon where Hezbollah were almost able to claim victory by virtue of not
    being heavily defeated?\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2009-01-06 20:45:06'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "gohebrew \r\n\r\nI agree Hamas is the thorn in the lions paw, however violence
    solves nothing only pain.  \r\nIsrael, is where I want to go one day and visit
    both sides in peace.  \r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-06 21:16:33'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Typedog,\r\n\r\nIn an ideal world, we can turn another cheek, like Jesus
    taught, and Gandhi practiced.\r\n\r\nBut we live in a cruel world. Therefore,
    the Jewish Bible teaches us to be realistic. There are Bin Ladens and Hamas hypocrites.
    It teaches to destroy the enemy before they destroy us.\r\n\r\nAfter all the Hamas'
    and the Bin Ladens are irradicated, then we can bury violence, too."
  created: '2009-01-06 22:10:39'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "gohebrew \r\n\r\nSad but it's true.  We must liquidate these evil beings.\r\n\r\nI
    am a Catholic and I know Christians also have it tough in the EAST.\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-06 22:43:41'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Tim,\r\n\r\nHere is not the place to debate these matters.\r\n\r\nInstead
    of coming closer through our talents, sympathizers for the \"poor Palestinian
    people\" become pitted against those who see it like Israel.\r\n\r\nNasrallah
    and his fakes, like Hamas, are only placated by their destruction.\r\n\r\nWhen
    we feel sorry for the people or children they stand behind, these murderous creeps
    rise up later to continue.\r\n\r\nMercy means to destroy them, even if the so-called
    innocent are destroyed as well.\r\n\r\nDo not forget that they voted in Hamas,
    and cheered when Nasrallah dislocated hundreds of thousands of Israeli civilians.\r\n\r\nDon't
    expect me to feel sorry for them."
  created: '2009-01-06 23:49:12'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>But we live in a cruel world. Therefore, the Jewish Bible teaches us
    to be realistic. There are Bin Ladens and Hamas hypocrites. It teaches to destroy
    the enemy before they destroy us.</em>\r\n\r\nIt's pretty sad when <em>both</em>
    sides are taught that by their religions.\r\nIt's even sadder when the people
    who are taught such things believe them to \r\nthe letter and don't see through
    the venom and misguided pride they breathe.\r\n\r\nCan you see there are <em>humans</em>
    on the other side? Humans, who live, breathe, work, talk, pray, meet friends,
    buy food (if they can get some), eat, sleep, crap, laugh and cry? Humans who design
    type, for God's sake? Humans who are scared, and humans who then suddenly live
    no more? \u2013 \r\nI'm not trying to make you \"feel sorry for them,\" and please
    note that I'm not aiming to play down their crimes, their violence, their killings.
    I'm trying to make you see what this is, on a very basic level.\r\n\r\nPalestinians
    are not abstract personifications of violence, hate, and evil, \"so-called civilians\"
    whose <em>raison d'\xEAtre</em> is to be worthless moving covers for the Bad Guys.
    They are humans, and they have hope, and dreams, they have pride, and they have
    a sense of home. And they have a right to live. Just like you do \u2013 and rightfully
    so. But their feelings aren't any less rightful than yours, and that's the painful
    and difficult part that is sometimes blotted out by gunfire and war rhetoric.\r\n\r\nSo,
    which path are you going to choose? One would be for Israelis <em>and</em> Palestinians
    to stop viewing each other as \"enemies to be destroyed\", but as <em>partners</em>
    calling the same land their home*; and trying to find a way to live together in
    something resembling peace. That's going to be hard, and painful, and you're not
    going to get your way all the way.\r\nThe other option of course is to attempt
    to kill them all, completely subjugate them, or drive them out of their homeland.
    Although you might consider that's been tried before; it doesn't work particularly
    well, and it doesn't look good either.\r\n\r\n* And please don't suppose I don't
    think <em>both</em> sides would need to do serious homework for this.\r\n\r\nNot
    that I'd really still believe people would learn from history. And I realize much
    of this post is a hopelessly romantic appeal. But hey, it's worth a try to remind
    people not to realize the horror of humanitarian catastrophes only after the fact.
    Like what happened to the Jews themselves (and part of my own family with them,
    by the way). To the Armenians. Want a list?\r\n\r\nCan you see that a Palestinian's
    life is not any less valuable than an Israeli's?"
  created: '2009-01-07 01:12:56'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "a...\r\n\r\nHypocracy.\r\n\r\nIf someone is so evil, he or she seeks your
    destruction, then kill them first. (Bible)\r\n\r\nIf you stand behind fake kindness,
    fake compassion, then you die and the evil-doer is free to do more evil.\r\n\r\nYou
    can not compare self-defense to murder. This is clear hypocracy."
  created: '2009-01-07 01:25:50'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>You can not compare self-defense to murder.</em>\r\n\r\nSo which definition
    applies to Israel bombing that mosque, killing the people who were praying in
    there?\r\n\r\nYes, that was a rhetorical question.\r\n\r\nYes, it's very easy
    to always be the victim. It entitles you to whatever.\r\nIsrael is not the victim
    anymore. Israel is killing people. Israel has power. And Israel needs to learn
    to use it in a responsible way."
  created: '2009-01-07 01:31:24'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "If a mosque houses the Hamas terrorists, it must be destroyed. That is kindness.
    Because as a result, real innocent civilians will not be murdered.\r\n\r\nIt seems
    that this simple logic is beyond you."
  created: '2009-01-07 02:13:02'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "The Bible says that happy is the one who smashes their babies against the
    wall.\r\n\r\nIf that baby murders later in life, happy is the one who smashes
    him or her early on.\r\n\r\nDo you agree?"
  created: '2009-01-07 02:16:30'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Um\u2026 no.\r\n\r\nI also don't think we speak the same language."
  created: '2009-01-07 02:36:29'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "It's a shame that you think that kindness means allowing a murderer to live
    and kill another person.\r\n\r\nAfter hearing the widespread hypocracy from many
    people, many liberals, etc., who never spoke out when kassams reigned in Sderot
    year after year, but now when some Arab dies as a human shield for a Hamas terrorist,
    they scream and yell that Israel is the bad guy."
  created: '2009-01-07 03:31:25'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "First, let me dissociate myself from gohebrew's comments. Where in the Bible
    does it recommend smashing babies? That is just revolting, and I would certainly
    repudiate it if it says so with approval, which I very much doubt. Your interpretation
    of the 'rodef' law is dangerously close to that of the assassin of Yitzchak Rabin,
    and is false and dangerous. I hope you think better of it.\r\n\r\nFortunately,
    the prophets and Jewish post-biblical sages make clear that the chief Jewish values
    are kindness, justice and humility. Not joy in killing the \"enemy\". Even though
    self-defense is legitimate, it is against Jewish values to rejoice in your enemy's
    suffering.\r\n\r\nAziz, let me address your comments, first generally. We all
    have a choice about whether to see the solution of the world's problems either
    in effective cooperation with others different from us, on one hand, and, on the
    other hand, in destroying our \"enemies\". The dividing the world into \"us\"
    and \"them\", the enemy, is the first step to dehumanizing others, and giving
    an excuse for brutality and suffering. \r\n\r\nThe \"us and them\", black and
    white thinking is also destructive of peace, prosperity, and love. \r\n\r\nI see
    the same kind of \"us and them\" thinking in your comments, and in gohebrew's
    comments. In your case, you seem to think that stopping Jewish immigration into
    Palestine was sufficient justification for al-Husayni's leading anti-Jewish riots,
    and seeking Hitler's help. (For the latter, see the Telegram from Himmler to Husayni
    in the Wikipedia article.)\r\n\r\nI, on the contrary, think that is exactly the
    kind of backward, tribal, us-and-them thinking that keeps the middle east in war
    and the Arab peoples in poverty. It is leaders who exploit nationalism to keep
    in power and control the populace, against its own true interests. \r\n\r\nAs
    I said, the US has been at times far more enlightened as concerns immigration.
    Currently, about 10% of US residents are foreign-born. And during one earlier
    period great immigration, 1890-1910, millions of Jews came to the US, including
    my grandparents. While we have our scoundrels also--such as the infamous Madoff--the
    US as benefited greatly from this immigration, as well as from immigrants from
    other groups all over the world. \r\n\r\nFor example, one of those immigrants
    was the Jewish (but irreligious) John von Neumann, the math genius who invented
    the architecture of the computer you are using to design your Arabic fonts. Cooperation
    = productivity. \r\n\r\nThe key issue to me is the ability to see the faults and
    sins of your own group, and the humanity and merits of the other. That is the
    foundation of peace and cooperation, and I am saddened that I haven't read in
    any of your comments acknowledgment of the evil done by anti-Jewish Arab terrorists,
    or of the good done by Jews in Israel and around the world. \r\n\r\nI am sickened
    by the current war, and do fault Israel for its settlement policies under Begin
    and Sharon. I don't know enough about the situation to know whether the current
    war could have been avoided by wiser Israeli policy. But I certainly do see the
    Hamas policy of attacking Israel with the declared intent to destroy it, even
    after Israeli withdrawal from Gaza, as very wrong. \r\n\r\n\r\nI pray that both
    sides will be able to think beyond \"us and them\", and make peace. \r\n \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-08 15:03:39'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "I don-not want to offend my Jewish brothers in any way, but  smashing babies
    against the wall  is something Nazis did in order to silence crying children.
    \ \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design"
  created: '2009-01-08 21:40:17'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "I don-not want to offend my Jewish brothers in any way, but  smashing babies
    against the wall  is something Nazis did in order to silence crying children.
    \ \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design"
  created: '2009-01-08 21:44:44'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "I don-not want to offend my Jewish brothers in any way, but  smashing babies
    against the wall  is something Nazis did in order to silence crying children.
    \ \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design"
  created: '2009-01-08 21:44:54'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: WTF?  why is this site so slow and I have a fast connection.
  created: '2009-01-08 21:48:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Typedog, I found the passage that Gohebrew refers to. \r\n\r\nIt is at the
    end of Psalm 137. This poem is a bitter lamentation and cry for vengeance by those
    who were themselves subject to mass murder and exile from Jerusalem into Babylon.
    It begins with the famous lines about weeping by the waters of Babylon, and concludes
    by crying out for vengeance against those who urged the Babylonian armies to killing
    and destruction. Here are the concluding lines in the recent translation of Alter:
    \"Recall, O Lord, the Edomites, on the day of [the destruction of] Jerusalem,
    saying \"Raze it, raze it, to its foundation!\" Daughter of Babylon the despoiler,
    happy who pays you back in kind, for what you did to us. Happy who seizes and
    smashes your infants against the rock.\"\r\n\r\nIt is a total perversion of Judaism
    to read this as anything but a cry of despair. It is never interpreted as a divine
    commandment. On the contrary, the Torah is generally against vengeance, having
    many passages against it. The exception is a defensive war, but even there, strict
    limits exist, including doing everything to avoid the death of non-combatants.
    The written Torah was interpreted extensively in later Jewish tradition, generally
    pushing everything in the direction of being as humane and peaceful as possible,
    while preserving the right of self-defense. \r\n\r\nIndeed, in the current war
    the Israeli phone calls to civilians to vacate anything to be bombed is a reflection
    of Jewish law on protecting non-combatants. \r\n\r\nUnfortunately today's weaponry
    is so powerful and hard to control that it often kills non-combatants, against
    traditional Jewish law. This leads to difficult moral dilemmas even for the most
    conscientious leaders of a war. (Of course Hamas has no problems about targeting
    non-combatants, including any Jew around the world they feel like targeting.)
    \   \r\n\r\nHere is a very thoughtful discussion of Jewish and other views on
    war, in the current context of the Israel-Palestine wars:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.gmu.edu/departments/crdc/docs/j_limitsofwar_and_cr.html\r\n\r\nIn
    crediting the Israelis for their efforts to limit civilian casualities, I am not
    saying that this war was necessary. It may well have been, but I just don't know
    enough to judge the situation from this distance. \r\n\r\nI do know that it is
    horrible and sickening. I fear that nothing good will come of it, though I would
    be very happy if it turns out to be the last battle of a 60 year war. \r\n\r\nIn
    any case I pray for the safety of non-combatants, and for a quick and lasting
    peace. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-08 23:00:05'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "William Berkson \r\n\r\nThank you for the most useful website link.  \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design"
  created: '2009-01-09 00:01:52'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "William,\r\n\r\n> First, let me dissociate myself from gohebrew\u2019s comments.
    Where in the Bible does it recommend smashing babies?\r\n\r\nI am surprized that
    you are not familiar with this famous statement from King David. Over a million
    Jews say it daily, as we recite it as an introduction to the Grace After Meals
    in chapter 137, verse 9. Look it up.\r\n\r\nHow can the Bible advise such a cruel
    response to a seemingly innocent baby?\r\n\r\nIf you knew that baby would eventually
    grow up and murder your grandchildren as a suicide bomber, you would then see
    that act of smashing as true kindness.\r\n\r\nHamas would prefer that you think
    otherwise."
  created: '2009-01-09 01:01:57'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Typedog,\r\n\r\n> I do not want to offend my Jewish brothers in any way,
    but smashing babies against the wall is something Nazis did in order to silence
    crying children. \r\n\r\nOffense is based upon understanding. The Nazis smashed
    babies out of cruelty and hatred.\r\n\r\nWhen the Bible advises this extreme behavior,
    the aim, is not cruelty and hatred. Rather, the goal is pure kindness and compassion.\r\n\r\nIn
    order to prevent later cruelty and hatred, such as action is recommended, recommended,
    now."
  created: '2009-01-09 01:08:37'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Again, Judaism is NOT Christianinty.\r\n\r\nWe reject fake kindness. We look
    at the whole picture. That's why we are longing lasting people, because we seek
    to embrace the truth."
  created: '2009-01-09 01:11:44'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "William,\r\n\r\n> It is a total perversion of Judaism to read this as anything
    but a cry of despair.\r\n\r\nWhere do you invent your interpretations?\r\n\r\nAyn
    am haaretz chossid. (Pirkei Avot)\r\n\r\nTrue, the superficial meaning is as you
    say. But sheeveem pahneem leTorah, Torah has many explanations.\r\n\r\nIf any
    decent human being realizes that mass destruction will come through a seemingly
    innocent party, certain that decent human being will desire to erradicated that
    innocent party.\r\n\r\nI am certain every decent person will desire this, for
    it is pure and simple logic.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-09 01:19:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "GoHebrew, you have not read my discussion of the passage, above. Your reasoning
    about it--\"If you knew the baby would grow up\" etc.--is odious and would license
    every kind of cruelty. It is the reasoning of dogmatists and fanatics. It assumes
    that you are both certain to be right, and certain about the future--both of which
    are impossible, but fanatics regularly assume they know. This arrogance licenses
    war and cruelty.   \r\n\r\nSuch reasoning is not part of Jewish law, and it is
    very irresponsible to misrepresent it as you have. It gives a very false and perverted
    impression of Jewish tradition. \r\n\r\nSuch statements are not scholarship or
    piety, but poisonous rubbish. Read Rabbi Gopin's thoughtful and fair discussion
    of these issues, linked above.   "
  created: '2009-01-09 01:26:37'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "William,\r\n\r\n> In any case I pray for the safety of non-combatants, and
    for a quick and lasting peace.\r\n\r\n\r\nI pray that Hamas and all evil-doers
    are destryoed forever.\r\n\r\nI disagree with your phrase: \"non-combatants\".
    This is real cruelty. If one wishes that innocent Israelis should die, then I
    pray they die a cruel death first.\r\n\r\nAccording to the Bible as explained
    in the Talmud, lasting peace refers to demonstration superior strength to your
    enemy, so that he sees it doesn't pay to start up with you.\r\n\r\nWhat you are
    stating has no basis in Torah. Perhaps, only in Christianity and liberal non-religious
    thinking."
  created: '2009-01-09 01:27:15'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\nCome on. You know what I'm saying.\r\n\r\nIf an Arab wants to
    kill a Jew, it is a mitzvah, a mitzvah, to kill him first.\r\n\r\nMaybe, a goy
    in Swiss. can not relatee, but you should.\r\n\r\nWhy did G-d instruct us to eradicate
    Amalek, even their babies? Why was King Saul punished when he negleced to do so?\r\n\r\nI'm
    not advocating a license to kill babies, just those that will end up murdering
    Jews. Are you such a liberal non-religious Jew to prefer not to see this?"
  created: '2009-01-09 01:34:15'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">What you are stating has no basis in Torah. \r\n\r\nGohebrew, read Rabbi
    Gopin's essay, above and see the plentiful basis. He has the references to Torah
    and Talmud and Maimonides: go, read and learn, and stop spouting rubbish. "
  created: '2009-01-09 01:39:47'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "gohebrew \r\n\r\n\r\n As far as religion are you saying Christians  and our
    beliefs are fake? \r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-09 01:40:03'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Typedog,\r\n\r\n> If America and all its allies turn its back on Israel,
    Israel would be nothing. As far as religion are you saying Christians are fake
    and our beliefs?\r\n\r\nFirst, I believe that even if America and its allies turn
    its back..., I trust G-d would do open miracles for Israel, like in the Six Day
    War and when Irag sent 39 missiles over Israel. America and its allies support
    Israel for their own interests.\r\n\r\nNo, I am not saying this at all. The Talmud
    advises us to accept wisdom from every source, not only Jewish. There are many
    great wise terachings from Jesus, and great examples of selfless humanity from
    among the Christians."
  created: '2009-01-09 01:41:46'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"Maybe, a goy in Swiss. can not relatee, but you should.\"</em>\r\n\r\nI
    suspect anyone who hasn't been brainwashed by hate speech can not relate."
  created: '2009-01-09 01:42:16'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "altaira,\r\n\r\n> I suspect anyone who hasn\u2019t been brainwashed by hate
    speech can not relate.\r\n\r\nI personally agree that truth is universal.\r\n\r\nSome
    'goyim' and also Jews by birth are 'pig-headed', and refuse to believe the truth
    even when it stares them in the face.\r\n\r\nWe are promised that if we conduct
    our life in accord with either 613 mitzvot or 7 Noahide laws, then these truths
    become easy to accept."
  created: '2009-01-09 01:47:17'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "gohebrew\r\n\r\nUnderstood, Thank you for clearing things up and yes I believe
    in GOD miracles.\r\nAs far as the Six Day War yes it was a blessing from GOD.
    \r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-09 01:50:46'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\nI read the article.\r\n\r\nBesides being long winded, like many
    scholarly papers, I failed to see the basis in Torah writings. It seemed closer
    to his own thinkin, with a few scattered sources. It you looked at his footnotes,
    he fails to show how even one source applies to his point.\r\n\r\nPerhaps, you
    want to summarize in a few paragraphs his main points.\r\n\r\nWhat I presented
    above is pure and simple logic. No Israeli wants to go to war, to conquer, to
    die in battle. All Israelis would much rather picnic with their families.\r\n\r\nI
    think that the tolerance level for Hamas crap and their missiles led Israel to
    say, 'enough is enough'.\r\n\r\nWhen Hamas is destroyed, and Palestinians want
    to coexist, there will be lasting peace. In the meantime, those that seek Israel's
    destructiom will be destroyed."
  created: '2009-01-09 02:15:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Israel, Gopin is an Orthodox Rabbi as well as an academic expert on negotiation
    and peace. He has very extensive knowledge of the sacred texts on this issue.
    In his article he only cited the most key ones, because his audience were not
    Torah scholars. \r\n\r\nI see now that Gopin is on the Board of Brit Tzedek v'Shalom,
    the pro-Israel pro-peace organization. \r\n\r\nI listened to [[http://btvshalom.org/resources/20090107_au.html|this
    long discussion]] of the current situation, which he did in a phone call from
    Jerusalem to Brit Tzedek people in the US. I felt for the first time that I was
    starting to understand what is going on.\r\n\r\nI would be interested in what
    Aziz's reaction to it is. It is, as you say, long winded, but very good also.
    \r\n\r\nI found his statement that the key to progress involves \"deep compassion
    for both sides\" moving and true, and what I was trying to say to Aziz above.
    \r\n\r\nAs to \"pure and simple logic\", I don't think you understand logic, because
    your argument is anything but logical. I will post later on this, and also answer
    Aziz's question on religion and state.   "
  created: '2009-01-09 14:36:34'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">Here is not the place to debate these matters.\r\n\r\nBut it is apparently
    the place to promote infanticide.\r\n\r\n>Do not forget that they voted in Hamas\r\n\r\nI
    had not forgotten that either.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2009-01-09 14:47:30'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Israel, you quote sources with such adeptness, I fear that someone may think
    that you actually understand them. As far as I'm concerned you show about as much
    understanding as my neighbor's cat. \r\n\r\n>If an Arab wants to kill a Jew, it
    is a mitzvah, a mitzvah, to kill him first.\r\n\r\nNo it is an averah, a sin,
    known as murder. You are NOT permitted to kill someone for what they think or
    want. If someone raises a knife to me I am permitted to stab him first, or raises
    a gun to shoot me, can shoot him first. But that is something he DOES, not thinks,
    and it puts me in immanent danger of losing my life. Only then is lethal self-defense
    permitted. Even then, Maimonides says that if I have another way to stop him,
    it is murder if I don't instead use the non-lethal method to stop him.\r\n\r\nI'm
    sure my wife wanted to kill me quite a few times, but that doesn't give me permission
    to kill her first. By your standards, every husband and wife would be dead in
    short order. \r\n\r\n>I\u2019m not advocating a license to kill babies, just those
    that will end up murdering Jews. Are you such a liberal non-religious Jew to prefer
    not to see this?\r\n\r\nNo, I prefer not to advocate wickedness. You don't know
    what that baby will do when he or she grows up and it is height of arrogance and
    wickedness for anyone to decide in advance that an innocent baby will one day
    deserve death, and to act on that now. That is terrorist thinking, and everyone
    should repudiate it.  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-09 18:10:02'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\n> No it is an averah, a sin, known as murder. You are NOT permitted
    to kill someone for what they think or want.\r\n\r\nThis is clearly inaccurate
    according to Torah or Biblical law.\r\n\r\nSee Rashi's commentary about Abraham,
    when non-Jews merely plotted in their thoughts to harm him. As a result of these
    wrongful thoughts, thoughts, they were rendered 'chayav meetah m'ya'dei shamayim'
    - they are liable for heavenly death.\r\n\r\nAlso, the law in Shulchan Orech regarding
    non-Jewish bandits who seek to steal wheat on the border, then even if the day
    is the Sabbath,and the victims are law-abiding Sabbath-observant folks, nevertheless
    Shulchan Orech instructs the victims to exit their home on the Sabbath, and kill,
    yes kill, the non-Jewish bandits on the Sabbath. Why? If they only intended to
    steal, really they also intended to kill.\r\n\r\nJudaism promotes murder if the
    purpose is save Jewish life, regardless of whether you think it's mennshickiet
    or not."
  created: '2009-01-09 20:42:23'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\n> I\u2019m sure my wife wanted to kill me quite a few times,
    but that doesn\u2019t give me permission to kill her first. By your standards,
    every husband and wife would be dead in short order. \r\n\r\nThis is foolish.
    As an intelligent articulate person, how cn you present such  silly argument?\r\n\r\nDomestic
    tranquilty, knowns as 'shalom bait', is the aim of observing every detail of Torah
    laws. The goal is not to promote watton murder of the heads of a household, but
    rather to do almost everything tobring the coupl together. Look at Moses' older
    brother Aaron who even lied to bring a couple to love each other again.\r\n\r\nDon't
    you know this story?"
  created: '2009-01-09 20:49:35'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "William,\r\n\r\n> ... is terrorist thinking, and everyone should repudiate
    it.\r\n\r\nRepudiate. Big deal!\r\n\r\nERADICATE. Are you going to shake your
    finger at a Hamas terrorist, as he pulls the trigger to kill you.\r\n\r\nIs this
    Reform Judaism? No wonder it is shrinking year after year? In the end, it will
    simply become another form of modernday Christianity!"
  created: '2009-01-09 20:55:53'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "timd,\r\n\r\n>  the place to promote infanticide\r\n\r\nAn Israeli baby in
    Sderot doesn't count. Only a poor Palestinian.\r\n\r\nThe Israeli baby may be
    murdered by a Hamas missile, but heaven forfend if the Palestinian baby is hurt.
    His or her p[arents who raiise him or her to become a suicide bomber is really
    innocent, just a product of his or her poverty.\r\n\r\nBut the Israeli baby deserves
    to dies, because he or she has a few bucks.\r\n\r\ntimd, is thathow you think?"
  created: '2009-01-09 21:02:47'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Israel, Rashi's commentary is about what GOD decided to do, not what men
    and women are permitted to do. It doesn't surprise me that you mix up Man and
    God, given that the rest of your analysis is so muddled. I have had enough, and
    won't track down how you've misinterpreted the passage from Shulchan Aruch. \r\n\r\nI
    really hope another Chabadnik will come on here and repudiate your pseudo-scholarship.
    Meanwhile, have a peaceful Shabbat, and I hope next week you'll stop posting this
    hateful stuff. \r\n\r\nAnd yes, though I don't know whether Israel should have
    started this latest battle, I pray that they win a better situation afterwards:
    no rockets coming into the South, and no suicide bombers. I also pray that the
    leaders in Gaza will be devoted to building up their people, instead of being
    obsessed with tearing down Israel. "
  created: '2009-01-09 22:34:06'
- author:
    name: Sorours
  body: "gohebrew, some link to help you to open your mind.\r\n\r\n[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_the_Jews_in_Morocco|History
    of the Jews in Morocco]]\r\n[[http://www.sefarad.org/publication/lm/017/morocco.html|The
    Jews of Morocco]]\r\n[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pact_of_Omar|Pact of Umar]]\r\n[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Islam_and_Judaism|Islam
    and Judaism]]"
  created: '2009-01-10 00:16:51'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">timd, is thathow you think?\r\n\r\nNo, that is your interpretation of how
    I think. I would never consider that killing babies is a solution. I believe you
    suggested it, by justifying those actions to preserve your grandchildren you justify
    the actions of your <em>\u201Cenemies\u201D</em>.\r\n\r\n<em>The Bible says that
    happy is the one who smashes their babies against the wall.\r\n\r\nIf that baby
    murders later in life, happy is the one who smashes him or her early on.\r\n\r\nIf
    you knew that baby would eventually grow up and murder your grandchildren as a
    suicide bomber, you would then see that act of smashing as true kindness.</em>\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-10 09:16:49'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "http://podblanc.com/video-holocaust-lies-told-by-zionists-now-public\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rumsfeld-saddam_4620.jpg]\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-10 10:37:28'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "In order to logicaly debate, the issues upon which we disagree must be delineated
    and understood, and the issues upon which we agree must also be delineated and
    understood.\r\n\r\nWhat do we agree upon?\r\n\r\nThe currently ruling government
    in Gaza of Hamas rejects Israel's right to exist, and has acted violently to murder
    Israelis for many years through missiles and suicide bombers.\r\n\r\nIf Hamas
    ceased to exist or be of no influence upon the Gazan people, then there would
    be no more war in Gaza, and the Israelis would harm no one anymore in Gaza.\r\n\r\nDo
    we agree upon this?\r\n\r\nDoes Israel have the right to defend its people?\r\n\r\nIf
    Hamas hides behind the Gazan people, does Israel have a right to defend its people,
    even if Gazans will be harmed or killed in the process of innocent Israeli people?\r\n\r\nUpon
    what do we disagree?\r\n\r\nI agree that no human being can decide that a baby
    will ultimately become a murderer or a suicide bomber, and be killed still as
    a baby.\r\n\r\nNo ordinary human being is so endowered in determining the future.\r\n\r\nMy
    point is with regard to clear obviously factors. What are those? They are nothing
    that we are familiar with.\r\n\r\nIn Torah laws, there is a distinction between
    chayav mitah b'yadei shamaya'im, and ...b'yadei adam.\r\n\r\nIn the example of
    Abraham, this is a case of chayav mitah b'yadei shamaya'im, where a person is
    liable to be killed through the agency of heaven. Certainly, a nation which seeks
    the destruction of Israel is in the category of being liable to be killed through
    the agency of heaven.\r\n\r\nIn the case brought in Shulchan Orech and quoted
    repeatedly by the late seventh Lubavitcher Rebbe of thieves who steal wheat on
    a border town, this is a case of people who are liable to be killed through the
    agency of people. Certainly, a nation which seeks to harm Israel is in the category
    of being liable to be killed through the agency of people.\r\n\r\nNo Chabadnik,
    like no yirat shamayim, would dispute these words.\r\n\r\nI also hope that Israel's
    enemies are completely eradicated. I hope the Palestinians too have a government
    interested in making people, and having a people grow to their true potential.\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-11 02:00:50'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Aziz,\r\n\r\nThe source that you bring above is white supremacy trash. Do
    you really adhere to the nonsense?\r\n\r\nI thought that you are more intelligent
    than beinving such lies.\r\n\r\nThe Quran rejects this garbage, and similar untruths
    which cause people to hate each other.\r\n\r\nWhen people live together in harmony,
    love, and truth, the differences between us is never interfere. A trully beautiful
    piece of art is not bland, but weaves different colors and patters together.\r\n\r\nOnly
    the foolish leader in Iran promotes such a lie. I am really shocked that you bring
    this link."
  created: '2009-01-11 02:13:23'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "It's\r\n\u5783\u573E\r\n\uC4F0\uB808\uAE30\r\n\u043E\u0442\u0431\u0440\u043E\u0441\r\nbasura\r\nGarbage\r\n----->>Whttp://podblanc.com/video-holocaust-lies-told-by-zionists-now-public\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/new7_jpg_4796.jpg]"
  created: '2009-01-11 02:35:44'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/US-UN_5542.jpg]'
  created: '2009-01-11 05:55:10'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I guess if the poor Palestinians can not defend themselves through missiles
    aimed at civilians or suicide bombers, then they are helpless. Yes, poor poor
    Palestinians.\r\n\r\nNo wonder that they say 'war is hell'!\r\n\r\n'I guess that
    they could always move into Aziz's house. But I'm sure that his wife wouldn't
    want 'em."
  created: '2009-01-11 07:45:33'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "AzizMostafa \r\n\r\nSo do you believe now?  You brought up the past history
    with bias point of view.  I showed you the the parts of history you neglected
    to show along with your claim.\r\n\r\ngohebrew\r\n\r\nWhy are you so angry? It
    is a crime when an innocent child (people) falls victim to war no matter what
    side.  Having said that it is not a crime to liquidate terrorist, suicide bombers,
    and , any other merchant of chaos.\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/muftiattrench-1_4891.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/bosnia1_4049.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/ss008_6404.jpg]"
  created: '2009-01-11 22:47:47'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Typedog,\r\n\r\nWhy am I angry?\r\n\r\nI am angry due to widespread hypocracy.\r\n\r\nReal
    type designers are creative folks, and creativity requires attention to detail
    and intellectual honesty.\r\n\r\nYet, here intellectual dishonesty is widespread.\r\n\r\nTo
    sympathize with the poor Palestinians on account of Israeli aggression exists
    in the same breath as condemnation of Israeli civilians, even if they are school
    children, because Israel's army is stronger that Hamas and do not deserve our
    pity.\r\n\r\nWhen the Israel Defense Force systematically destroys Hamas, these
    creative giants shout in protest. The poor Palestinians are being harmed!\r\n\r\nLet's
    us recall that Hamas came to power because of these same Palestinians. Let us
    not forget that when Iraq threw SCUD missiles to destroy innocent Israelis, but
    were miraculously saved by open miracles from G-d, while the Palestinians danced
    on roof-tops, hoping the missiles would kill innocent Israelis. On 9/11, these
    same Palestinians distributed candies to their children, as Allah was great and
    innocent people died in the US. Aziz can confirm this sick custom.\r\n\r\nSo,
    do you understand my anger at such hypocracy? Do you understand why I have not
    even a drop of sympathy for the Palestians?\r\n\r\nIf Hamas are buried in mass
    graves together with the poor Palestinians, then after a very short time, nobody
    in Europe will blink an eye. Their death will be quickly forgotten. So, we see
    how limited is their concern."
  created: '2009-01-12 02:46:58'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Though the game was over with you:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/48217?page=9#comment-301298\r\nBut
    you like playing more games.\r\n\r\n> Let\u2019s us recall that Hamas came to
    power because of these same Palestinians. \r\n\r\nSo you don't care if Palestinians
    elections were democratic!\r\nDemocracy is what Israel decides it is?!\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    When Iraq threw SCUD missiles to destroy innocent Israelis ...\r\n... the Palestinians
    danced on roof-tops\r\n> On 9/11, these same Palestinians distributed candies
    to their children.\r\n\r\n1. The 2 above-mentioned crimes were not commmited by
    Palestinians. \r\n... You know better who!\r\n2. The so called \"Israelis\" are
    not innocent. \r\n.... They made Palestinians homeless+prisoners in their homeland?\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/53099#comment-320712\r\n3.
    Non-Palestinians danced also, will you launch more aggressions on non-Israelis?!
    Or you are too tolerant with Non-Palestinians?\r\n \r\nHope you understand my
    anger at such hypocracy? \r\n\r\n\r\n>> If Hamas are buried in mass graves together
    with the poor Palestinians, \r\nthen after a very short time, nobody in Europe
    will blink an eye. \r\nTheir death will be quickly forgotten.\r\n\r\nSummarized
    here:\r\nhttp://podblanc.com/video-holocaust-lies-told-by-zionists-now-public\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-12 08:02:38'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "gohebrew \r\n\r\nSo then your no better then Jewish separatist (criminals),
    I should of known this before hand.    \r\n\r\nAzizMostafa \r\n\r\n> On 9/11,
    these same Palestinians distributed candies to their children-----> such bull
    shit!\r\n\r\nAgain you keep putting up that biased web link with no credibility.
    \ \r\nI sympathize for the victims who become collateral damage."
  created: '2009-01-12 09:34:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Aziz, why do you think that that web site has any credibility? It is by white
    racists and neo-Nazis who have as much contempt for you as for me. It is full
    of lies. \r\n\r\nBy linking to that, it seems to me that you are just looking
    for reasons to hate, not to understand both sides, and get to peace. \r\n\r\nIf
    you want to understand the thinking of a liberal Jew who is sympathetic to Israel
    and also treasures Palestinian lives and sincerely wants peace, I can help you.
    If you just want to collect reasons to hate, no matter how false or incredible,
    I can't help you. \r\n\r\nHere is what your new \"friends\" are up to [[http://unitywebring.com/unity/?p=591|in
    France,]] and [[http://www.islamophobia-watch.com/islamophobia-watch/2008/6/22/nazis-attack-german-muslims.html|here
    is what they are doing in Germany.]]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-12 15:58:47'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "... and in Australia too!\r\nhttp://www.barossa-region.org/Australia/The-Israel-Lobby........Jon-Korein.html\r\nSorry
    William Berkson , I am a bit calculative.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-12 17:33:01'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Did you notice that Aziz did not argue about the facts that the Palestinian
    did vote for the irrational and hateful Hamas party, gave out candies to their
    children on the original 9/11, or danced on the roof-tops during the Iraqi's SKUD
    missile attacks.\r\n\r\nAziz, do you deny this?\r\n\r\nRather, he pointed out
    that it was a democratic election, and that others danced too.\r\n\r\nWhn the
    German people freely elected Hilter's Nazi party, this was the beginning of their
    own downfall, that to this very day many German youth come to Israel to do community
    service, to reduce their feelings of guilt. Here, the Palestinians feel no quilt.\r\n\r\nOnly
    a very evil people feel no quilt. Rather, they think that they are right, like
    Aziz's twisted attitute.\r\n\r\nYou will see that Hamas will prefer that the Palestinian
    people die by the thousands than to agree to a true cease-fire, and not to missiles
    into Israeli civilian centers.\r\n\r\nIn the end, I hop;e there will be true peace,
    and the Palestinians, like the Hamas, which hate Israelis with a passion, will
    be totally eradicated."
  created: '2009-01-12 18:24:12'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Israel, in the Talmud, Berachot lOa, Beruria admonishes her husband Rabbi
    Meir, saying that he should not pray for the death of sinners, but of sin. Similarly,
    you should hope not for the death of haters, but of hate. Yes, the state of Israel
    must defend itself, but we should not kill compassion--not least because it is
    the best hope of finding a way to live with others. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-12 19:23:24'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> When Iraq threw SCUD missiles to destroy innocent Israelis ...\r\n... the
    Palestinians danced on roof-tops\r\n> On 9/11, these same Palestinians distributed
    candies to their children.\r\n\r\n1. The 2 above-mentioned crimes were not committed
    by Palestinians.\r\n... You better know who committed them! Why eradicating them?\r\n2.
    The so called \u201CIsraelis\u201D are not innocent.\r\n.... They made Palestinians
    homeless+prisoners in their homeland.\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/53099#comment-320712\r\n...
    and what befalls on the enemy does please friends..\r\n3. Non-Palestinians danced
    also, will you launch more aggressions on non-Palestinians?! Or you are too tolerant
    with non-Palestinians?\r\n4. If a man kills your son and another man dances for
    that, \r\n... will you kill the killer or the dancer first? \r\n\r\nAnswer my
    questions one by one, then I will answer yours.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-12 19:24:02'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: That photo Typedog posted was rather shocking. I had no idea Pete Townshend
    was a Nazi!
  created: '2009-01-12 20:13:18'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "aluminum \r\n\r\nHEHEHE.......All joking aside, the reason I presented theses
    pictures is because AzizMostafa  wanted prove history was against him and his
    people.  However he failed to mention his comrade Amin Al Husseini who like I
    mentioned had allot to do with implanting the seed of evil in modern Palestine.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design[img:sites/default/files/old-images/nazi-meeting_gif_jpg_jpg_jpg_4168.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/3-Moslems-praying_jpg_jpg_jpg_6622.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/prayer_jpg_jpg_jpg_5381.jpg]"
  created: '2009-01-12 20:20:31'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: ">... because AzizMostafa wanted prove history was against him and his people.\r\n\r\nDoes
    Typedog want a proof that Math+History is against him+Zionists? \r\nhttp://www.barossa-region.org/Australia/The-Israel-Lobby........Jon-Korein.html\r\nRead
    line by line then answer with pictures if possible.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-12 20:31:58'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "AzizMostafa \r\n\r\nWTF, and I say this with kindest words how can I be a
    Zionists i am not even a Jew (Christian).  Second you choose to believe what you
    want to believe history cannot be erased.  I will not give you the satisfaction
    by reading biased material.  Neo Nazis propaganda+AzizMostafa= mindless babel.\r\n\r\n\r\nRead
    Mein Kampf after all it is # 1 in Middle East, I don't know why Hitler hated you
    most of all?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design"
  created: '2009-01-12 20:43:57'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "AzizMostafa \r\n\r\nIm am not against you or the Muslim nation, this is debate
    and should be handled as such.\r\nI know Bosniaks (Bosnian) who study the Koran
    who do not want any part of the Middle Eastern problems.\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design"
  created: '2009-01-12 20:50:42'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> I am not even a Jew (Christian)\r\n\r\nA Zionist Christian?! Actions speak
    louder than words.\r\n\r\n> I know Bosniaks (Bosnian) who study the Koran \r\nwho
    do not want any part of the Middle Eastern problems.\r\n\r\n1. What did UN+US
    do to the Bosniaks? They were stripped of Chile-like land so that they would not
    get any access to the sea.  \r\n2. The Middle Eastern problems were created by
    the West.\r\nTo solve problems is to eradicate the causes not the consequences.\r\nA
    state built on lies wont last. Remember South Africa.\r\nSo give back the land
    to its owner and allow all those who were cheated to migrate to the wrongfully
    created \"Israel\" to collect their belongings and go back home. According to
    Islam, Christianity+Judaism.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-13 04:11:37'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: Sorry Double-Post!
  created: '2009-01-13 04:21:46'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "\r\n\r\nA Zionist Christian----->No not at all.  The problem's might of been
    created by the West yes this is true.  However they probably did it so there would
    never ever be a Islamic flag hanging from the White House?  \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design"
  created: '2009-01-13 05:42:10'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> However they probably did it so there would never ever be a Islamic flag
    hanging from the White House? \r\n\r\nNo need to hang up an Islamic flag, just
    make the US-flag carry 51 stars not 50, and take away space of one or more states
    to take in the new immigrants. \r\nImpossibly easy?! Better if the 51 stars are
    replaced with Flowers.\r\n "
  created: '2009-01-13 06:18:40'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "AzizMostafa \r\n\r\nYou definitely have problems, yeah all those who come
    from your part of the world with flowers?\r\nHaha whatever man! Before I go here's
    another picture!\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design[img:sites/default/files/old-images/06_5668.02.05.RighttoBlaspheme-X.gif]"
  created: '2009-01-13 07:23:54'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "That's the Islam of Taliban who were created and backed by US+KSA for 3+
    reasons:\r\n1. To stand against Iran. Good example: Slaughtering of the 9 Iranian
    diplomats.\r\n2. To make them rule in the name of Islam to spoil its image and
    the reputation of the anti-ex-Russia freedom-fighters. Then:\r\n3. To attack the
    Stupid+Crooked Taliban after 9/11 as Terrorists.\r\nAll that to divert Muslims
    from Islam +force Democracy on them.\r\n\r\nZionism exploitation of the Stupid+Crooked.
    The Goal justifies the means.\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2009-01-13 08:44:47'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"2. The Middle Eastern problems were created by the West.\"\r\n\r\nThose
    crazy Californians, someone stop them, or were they from Texas?\r\n\r\n\"2. To
    make [the Taliban] rule in the name of Islam to spoil its image and the reputation
    of the anti-ex-Russia freedom-fighters.\"\r\n\r\nIsrael made the freedom fighters
    spoil the image of Islam?  Hiding behind the stone walls that fell down on the
    adulterous, perhaps?\r\n\r\nIf you live long enough... then all will be written.
    ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-01-13 13:40:26'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Guys. If we are ALL guilty we won\u2019t be able to figure out who Jesus
    wants us to kill next."
  created: '2009-01-13 13:55:33'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Yes, I admit it: I'm from California. Yes, I have friends from Texas, too.
    And I drink HUGE beers for havdallah!\r\n\r\nBut it's the Californian part of
    me that's against the Israeli aggression. They should just relocate to Oregon,
    I say.\r\n\r\nAziz should move to a new homestead in Mexico.\r\n\r\nCome on, it's
    for the sake of middle east peace!  "
  created: '2009-01-13 14:11:07'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">Israel made the freedom fighters spoil the image of Islam? Hiding behind
    the stone walls that fell down on the adulterous, perhaps?\r\n\r\n\u2026erm I
    think KSA stands for Kingdom of Saudi Arabia not Israel \u2013 the two are easily
    confused.\r\n\r\nTypedog, that image is hardly appropriate \u2013 the lack of
    unbiased reporting from Gaza is because the Israelis are not restricting reporters
    entry into the conflict zone \u2013 leaving two understandably biased sources,
    reporters embedded with the Israeli army and interviews with representatives of
    humanitarian organisations.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2009-01-13 14:55:13'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Israel will never crush the Islamic Resistance of Hamas, because for Muslims
    it is always a win-win situation. Fight and win your occupied land back or die
    happily and gain martyrdom. But the Zionists fight so hard for a land that is
    not even theirs. For them it is a lose-lose situation. Fighting an indestructible
    enemy and never having freedom in the land they occupied or death after which
    there is no respite.\r\n\r\nP.S. My postings here are addressed neither to the
    manipulative nor to those \r\nwho skip my questions and throw unrelated comments
    here+there.\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/53099?page=3#comment-322052\r\n\r\nDown
    with Zionists. Down with Taliban. Long Live Hamas.\r\n\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n
    \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-13 17:11:02'
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: "Throughout history, criminals have never admitted their atrocities and crimes
    against humanity except when it is late.  There are those criminals who do the
    killings and those who cover up for them through silence (like media and press)\r\n\r\nI
    do not like to *discuss* crimes against humanities and atrocities since there
    is NOTHING to discuss, I only condemn these acts REGARDLESS, and like to remind
    the criminals that they shall never win, and their place eventually will be in
    history's garbage.  This is exactly how Michael Heart felt.  Listen to his song
    about Gaza along with pictures:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dHy1T-tao9w\r\n\r\nhttp://www.tropismes.org/post/462\r\n\r\n-Saad"
  created: '2009-01-13 17:23:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Saad, do you also condemn Hamas using women and children as human shields,
    as they are now doing in the current war?\r\n\r\nDo you also condemn the continuation
    of rocket attacks against Israel even after it left Gaza? \r\n\r\nI'm afraid that
    at the root of this 60 year war is, as I recently read, that the Palestinian nationalist
    movement most of the time has been much more interested in destroying Israel than
    in building up its own people. If Hamas were truly interested in the welfare of
    people in Gaza, they would not have provoked a suicidal war. \r\n\r\nAziz, your
    view that every violent act against Israel is a win, no matter the human suffering
    on both sides, reminds me of the Zealots in the Jewish wars. They thought the
    same way about killing Romans, and the result was the death of something like
    half the Jewish population and a 2000 year exile. Your view of the value of violence
    in my opinion is the height of self-destructive folly, as was the view of the
    Jewish Zealots in the first century.  \r\n\r\nThe sooner Muslim Arabs accept the
    reality of the state of Israel--and very many do--and resolve to cooperate for
    the benefit of Arab and Jew alike, the sooner the middle east will be peaceful
    and prosperous. "
  created: '2009-01-13 18:43:57'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Can you see that a Palestinian\u2019s life is not any less valuable than
    an Israeli\u2019s?\r\n\r\nNina,\r\n\r\nGood question.\r\n\r\nA  speech by  Fathi
    Hammad, Hamas, Al-Aqsa TV, 2008:\r\n\r\nThe enemies of Allah do not know that
    the Palestinian people has developed its methods of death and death-seeking. For
    the Palestinian people, death has become an industry, at which women excel, and
    so do all the people living on this land. The elderly excel at this, and so do
    the mujahideen and the children. This is why they have formed human shields of
    the women, the children, the elderly, and the mujahideen, in order to challenge
    the Zionist bombing machine. It is as if they were saying to the Zionist enemy:
    \"We desire death like you desire life.\"\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nLebanon --  LBC
    TV,  2009;  Lebanese journalists May Chidiac & \u2018Uqab Saqr:\r\n\r\nChidiac:
    Are our children worth less than [Israeli] children?\r\n Saqr: The question is
    why their blood is worth more than ours, and the answer, to be frank, is that
    they value human life more than we do. We have no respect for human life in our
    society \u2013 you see this in our jails, in the crimes we commit against one
    another. Look back a little, and see what happened between Fatah and Hamas. The
    Israeli newspapers wrote that there were massacres, and some Fatah members fled
    to Israel for fear of Hamas.\r\n\r\n------------\r\nHamas Attacks Against Fatah
    Kill 14 and Add to Gaza Chaos\r\nhttp://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/16/world/middleeast/16gaza.html?_r=1\r\n\r\n------------\r\n\r\n\r\nCIVILIANS
    PAYING PRICE \r\nhttp://www.reuters.com/article/newsOne/idUSLB264011\r\n\r\nFatma,
    a Gaza resident, said by telephone.....:\r\n\"People are in a state of shock and
    carry a lot of hatred for Hamas,\" she said. \"Civilians are dying. My house was
    bombed, why wasn't (Hamas leader) Ismail Haniyeh's house bombed?\"\r\n\r\n--------------\r\n\r\nGaza
    Strip attack on Fatah loyalists by Hamas gunmen kills 11\r\n\r\nhttp://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/news/world/middle_east/article4454082.ece\r\n\r\n....Shadi
    Hilles, a 22-year-old former member of the Fatah security forces in Gaza, said
    that he wanted to stay in Israel and would be arrested and beaten by Hamas if
    he was forced to return. \u201CI don't know what will happen. If I go back they
    are sure to get me,\u201D he told The Times, lying with a foot wound in an Israeli
    hospital in Ashqelon.....\r\n\r\n-------------------\r\n\r\nEdit:\r\nBill,  I
    didn't see your post.\r\n\r\nGood questions: \r\nSaad, do you also condemn Hamas
    using women and children as human shields, as they are now doing in the current
    war?\r\n\r\nDo you also condemn the continuation of rocket attacks against Israel
    even after it left Gaza?\r\n\r\n\r\n------------------\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-13 19:02:49'
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: "William Berkson wrote:\r\n\r\n>>The sooner Muslim Arabs accept the reality
    of the state of Israel\r\n\r\nI personally accept fully the reality of the people
    of Israel and their human needs and rights to live in Palestine, but just as the
    black people of South Africa had never accepted the reality of South Africa under
    Apartheid system, I personally would NEVER accept the reality of Israel under
    Zionist system.\r\n\r\nThe Israeli people must reverse the crimes of there past
    and present leaders and accept living in Palestine/Israel with ALL the Palestinian
    people, in peace.\r\n\r\n-Saad"
  created: '2009-01-13 19:13:15'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "timd \r\n\r\n\r\nSorry comrade, I am free to express my feelings anyway possible.\r\nLong
    live California and Texas! \r\n\r\ngohebrew \r\n\r\nI hardly think Mexico wants
    AzizMostafa , what would the Mexican Jews say!\r\n\r\nAzizMostafa \r\n\r\ndie
    happily and gain martyrdom----> Sound's like the words Hamas feeds its human bombs.
    Well Aziz at least we agree on Down with Taliban."
  created: '2009-01-13 19:22:51'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "http://www.haaretz.com/hasen/spages/1054579.html\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-13 19:47:38'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "You guys seem to believe this will be solved in a chat room... There is not
    a smiley emoticon big enough to express the humour of that assumption!\r\n\r\nBack
    to type, right Hrant?\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-01-13 19:53:50'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "You guys seem to believe this will be solved.\r\n\r\n;o)"
  created: '2009-01-13 20:01:06'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: Never, and your right back to type
  created: '2009-01-13 20:05:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Michael, I am not so naive as to think we are going to solving anything here.
    This is an unusual opportunity for me, at least, to discuss the issue with people
    around the world. I find it very interesting, if depressing. Of course the situation
    is still more depressing.\r\n\r\nSaad, are you saying that any Jewish state is
    illegitimate, and that there should be no peace between the Palestinians and Israel,
    but only wiping out of the Jewish state?\r\n\r\nI concede that there has been
    injustice and cruelty of Israel against the Palestinians. Are you prepared to
    concede that there has been Palestinian cruelty and injustice against the Jews?\r\n\r\nYou
    analogy to South Africa is wrong, because Israel has had a majority Jewish population
    ever since the Arab countries failed to wipe it out in 1948. Two generations have
    passed, and it is time to create a peace that reflect the current reality of two
    peoples on separate lands.  "
  created: '2009-01-13 20:33:39'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">Sorry comrade, I am free to express my feelings anyway possible.\r\nLong
    live California and Texas!\r\n\r\nCitizen Typedog,\r\nI appreciate the irony,
    hope you can.\r\n\r\nAs for solving it, I refer you to my first contribution.
    However, like William, I value the variety and foci of the contributions.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2009-01-13 20:36:57'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "You are better off finishing your long awaited Caslon, William : )\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-01-13 20:48:38'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "William, there is no pointing repeating the same questions+answers:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/30209?page=1#comment-175307\r\n\r\nIsrael
    was founded on lies. Non-Arab Jews were sent with arms to take over\r\nthe land
    by the British by attacking Muslims as All are witnessing today.\r\nAnd the rest
    of the Jews were cheated to leave their homes to the Promised land?!\r\nJews were
    not immigrants but invaders. Two generations have passed, \r\nand it is time to
    leave. Israel does not fit in the Arab Jigsaw.\r\nBack to type: how many immigrant
    Jews can speak+write Arabic today?!\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2009-01-13 20:51:22'
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: "Dear William Berkson\r\n\r\nI understand and appreciate your curiosity, but
    I am not interested in political debates, or in use of propaganda slogans. \r\n\r\nThe
    Palestinian problem and facts are well documented from the first day the British
    army occupied Palestine in 1917 and opened its doors *illegally and criminally*
    \ to European settlers despite the will of its inhabitants (90 % Muslims and Christians).
    \ Millions of Palestinian refugees (Muslims and Christians)) still carry the keys
    to their homes that they were terrorized to leave behind. Israel acting as an
    Apartheid Regime (Jimmy Carter's words) shall NEVER live in peace.\r\n\r\nPeriod!\r\n\r\n-Saad "
  created: '2009-01-13 20:56:15'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "timd\r\n\r\n\r\nAgreed"
  created: '2009-01-13 20:57:55'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "About Hamas, Around the World:\r\n\r\nArabs turn against 'megalomaniac' Hamas\r\nhttp://www.theaustralian.news.com.au/story/0,25197,24860529-15084,00.html\r\n\r\nResponsibility
    for the war in Gaza, and for the Palestinian fatalities there, was placed squarely
    on Hamas by Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas.\r\n\"We called the
    leaders of Hamas and told them, 'Please, do not end the truce',\" he said. [1]
    Hamas ended a six-month truce with Israel two weeks before the Israeli attack.\r\nAn
    Abbas aide, Nimr Hammad, termed the rocket fire into Israel reckless. \"The one
    responsible for the massacre is Hamas,\" he said. \"Hamas should not have given
    the Israelis a pretext.\" [2]\r\nBassam Abu-Sumayyah, a columnist for the daily
    Al-Hayat Al-Jadida, accused Hamas of megalomania and said it had acted without
    even a little bit of political and security sense. It had behaved like a superpower.
    [3]\r\n\r\n[1]. when he was in Egypt\r\n\r\n[2].  quoted from the paper in Lebanon
    Al-Akhbar (http://www.al-akhbar.com/): \"The one responsible for the massacres
    is Hamas, and not the Zionist entity, which in its own view reacted to the firing
    of Palestinian missiles. Hamas needs to stop treating the blood of Palestinians
    lightly. They should not give the Israelis a pretext.\" \r\n\r\n[3]. quoted from
    the paper Al-Hayat Al-Jadida (The new life, the official paper of the Palestinian
    National Authority; http://www.alhayat-j.com/): \"They should have had even a
    little bit of political and security sense, and not left the people wandering,
    and losing their way, getting killed and injured. It is clear that Hamas was struck
    by megalomania since they took over Gaza, which blinded them so they would not
    listen to any advice. Hamas behaved like a superpower, as if they have weapons
    and means like Hizbullah in Lebanon...\"\r\n\r\n------------------\r\n\r\nAsharq
    Al-Awsat:The Arab Vote Against Hamas\r\nhttp://www.asharq-e.com/news.asp?section=2&id=14879\r\n\r\n-----------------\r\n\r\nMuslims
    Against Hamas\r\nIsrael isn't the only side to blame\r\nhttp://online.wsj.com/article/SB123154855613269959.html\r\n\r\n-----------------\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-14 00:37:28'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> There are more Zionist Arabs than Zionist non-Arabs!\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/53099#comment-320686\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Fahad_5939.jpg]\r\nhttp://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5j71ITaw3U4ReQeiVDA1OJWEcJpAQD9583MEG0\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-14 05:49:39'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "AzizMostafa \r\n\r\nGive it up and find something else to do stop being so
    ignorant.\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design"
  created: '2009-01-14 06:04:44'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> Give it up and find something else to do stop being so ignorant.\r\n\r\nAt
    your service, I have:\r\n1. given up.\r\n2. found something else.\r\nhttp://vho.org/Intro/GB/Flyer.html\r\n3.
    felt sorry for being so ignorant\r\n______________________________________\r\nFlowers
    to VHO"
  created: '2009-01-14 08:46:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">British army occupied Palestine in 1917 and opened its doors *illegally
    and criminally* to European settlers \r\n\r\nThat's not what I read. What I read
    is that with very rare exceptions, the Jews who moved into Palestine bought land
    properly and legally. They also brought European knowledge and skills that enabled
    them to develop the economy, so that there was large Arab immigration into and
    near where the Jews have settled. \r\n\r\nSitting here in America, and knowing
    my family's history for the last century, I just don't see why the Arab population
    couldn't have been tolerant and cooperative if they wanted to be. For the past
    25 years, I have lived in a cluster of about 50 townhouses, and my next door neighbor,
    with whom I share a common wall, is Egyptian and Muslim. We've never had any problems
    and it would be unthinkable and criminal if anyone were to harm his property or
    family, although he's the only Muslim in a majority Christian neighborhood. And
    I think others would have the same view if some in the majority culture would
    come and try to expel me, a Jew, from my house.\r\n\r\nNow I don't deny that there
    are intolerant people in the US. In the early 20th century there was a lot of
    anti-semitism. And now, with the huge Hispanic immigration, there are some who
    are equally intolerant. But I glad to say that the voices of tolerance have generally
    prevailed. \r\n\r\nWhat I read went on is that people like Amin Al-Husseini whipped
    up fear and hatred of the Jews for their own interests. And, as I said they against
    their wishes help create a separate Jewish state because Jews felt that otherwise
    they would be attacked--as they had been in riots led by Al-Husseini. \r\n\r\nI
    am very familiar with this tactic of demagoguery. I have seen it done by US Southern
    demagogues like George Wallace, who whipped up anti-black feeling for their own
    gain. And recently to my sorrow George W. Bush got re-elected by whipping up fear
    of radical Islam. \r\n\r\nIf you don't want to participate, I understand, but
    know that there is certainly not agreement in the West on your version of the
    history. If you have references in English I can read, from actual scholars, I'd
    be interested in the other side of the history. \r\n\r\nAs to keeping the keys
    to your houses, like it or not, the Jews have in effect been keeping the keys
    for 2000 years, reciting every year at Passover 'next year in Jerusalem'. And
    they kept alive the Hebrew language, which is the native Caananite language, and
    not Arabic, which was not spoken in those lands until the Arab conquest. The Jewish
    claim of connection to the land of Israel is very real and historical. \r\n\r\nAziz,
    your holocaust denial is grotesque, ugly, and absurd. I know from personal family
    stories, and a survivor of Auschwitz who is a friend today, as well as from libraries
    of histories, that it was all too real.  "
  created: '2009-01-14 15:18:06'
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: "Dear William Berkson\r\n\r\n>>That\u2019s not what I read. What I read is
    that with very rare exceptions, the Jews who moved into Palestine bought land
    properly and legally.\r\n\r\nMany did, but then used acquired lands as military
    bases to to steel more lands illegally.\r\n\r\n>>Sitting here in America, and
    knowing my family\u2019s history for the last century, I just don\u2019t see why
    the Arab population couldn\u2019t have been tolerant and cooperative if they wanted
    to be.\r\n\r\nThe Arab population was very tolerant and only revolted after settlers
    started talking about a \"Jewish Homeland\".  If Egyptian emigrants in your town
    start talking and acting violently to create an \"Egyptian state\" where you would
    not allowed to live in or would be treated as a second class citizen, you would
    do the same.\r\n\r\n>>As to keeping the keys to your houses, like it or not, the
    Jews have in effect been keeping the keys for 2000 years, reciting every year
    at Passover \u2019next year in Jerusalem\u2019.\r\n\r\nJews according to both
    bibles did not come to an empty land when they crossed the Sinai desert. Eventually
    they became one of the groups living in that land along with many others. But
    if they do feel that they belong there and have kept Jerusalem in their hearts
    for 2000 years, I really respect that and wish that they all come in to live SIDE
    BY SIDE ALL people in Palestine and neighboring lands. The Jewish religion teachings
    never included displacing and killing the non Jewish populations of Palestine.
    \ After all, having all Jews of the world (20 Millions) living next to their cousins
    the Arabs (200 millions) can only benefit both.\r\n\r\n-Saad\r\n\r\n  "
  created: '2009-01-14 16:23:23'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> ... my next door neighbor... is Egyptian and Muslim.\r\n\r\nWhat is the
    difference between A+B?\r\n__________________________A__________________________\r\nThousands
    out of Millions oppressed Egyptian Muslims carefully-filtered out \r\nby US-immigration
    just to escape Zionist-backed Mobarak+live peacefully in US.\r\nIn one word: Legal
    immigrants accepted+governed by US-Rules.\r\n__________________________B__________________________\r\nThousands
    non-Arab Jews armed by Zionists sent to kill thousands of Palestinians, imprison
    thousands and corner the rest of them into 10% of their land? \r\nIn 1 word: Illegal
    immigrants sent+backed by Zionists to take over+rule.\r\n__________________________C__________________________\r\n1.
    Did the no-Arab Jews apply for migration to Palestine?\r\n2. Were they sent to
    live peacefully or to take over the land?\r\n... by hook or by crook?\r\n3. Will
    the Zionists allow the Muslims to rule US?\r\n__________________________D__________________________\r\nThe
    Zionist Crimes in Gaza are beyond description.\r\nThey are cursed+condemned world-wide
    save by Zionists of course.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-14 16:37:17'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Walk away William. Caslon is calling : )\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-01-14 16:58:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I hear you Michael :) '
  created: '2009-01-14 17:08:16'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Thanks and kudos to everone who participated in this discussion. Now that
    the Gaza conflict is over we are seeing the extent of destruction and the human
    toll.\r\n\r\nAs the Prussian military genius Karl von Klausewitz observed, War
    is an extension of politics. Perhaps if the politics at work in the Gaza strip
    can be resolved, even by a small amount, future violent physical extensions of
    those politics won't be so harsh and destructive.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2009-01-24 05:42:04'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "To view all pages as a single page, click:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/53099?from=0&comments_per_page=5000\r\nFlowers
    to all Peace-loving Typophiles"
  created: '2009-01-24 13:40:34'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "@gohebrew\r\n\r\nI' started reading this thread, but after about two dozens
    of your comments filled with hatred I ceasted to continue. However, I'd like to
    give you just a minor detail to think about.\r\n\r\nYou claim consistently to
    put it bluntly, that killing anyone, who could (not *will*, *could*) ever harm
    you, before they can, is the ultimate strategy, which you attribute \"your peoples\"
    success to.\r\n\r\nYou also write:\r\n\"In an ideal world, we can turn another
    cheek, like Jesus taught, and Gandhi practiced.\r\n\r\nBut we live in a cruel
    world. Therefore, the Jewish Bible teaches us to be realistic. There are Bin Ladens
    and Hamas hypocrites. It teaches to destroy the enemy before they destroy us.\"\r\n\r\nWell,
    we all _do_ agree that we live in a less than perfect world, notwithstanding,
    explain me pleas:\r\nHow come then, that there are more than a billion Indians
    now, thanks to the politics of Ghandi. How come, there are more than a billion
    Christians now following the teachings of Jesus, and how come there are barely
    a handful of million Jews, besieged in Israel and hated in wide parts of the world?\r\n\r\nJust
    think of it. And rethink your position, whether it is _kindness_ or it is _vengence_
    that leads to peace and prosperity.\r\n\r\n\r\nAlso I'd like to point your attention
    to your use of \"goy\", \"goyim\" in your text. Using this word instead of standard
    English 'non-Jew(s)' as it would be appropriate in this discussion equals to use
    the (German) term 'Jud' instead of jew(s) in the very same text. I believe we
    all agree this would be very rude. Further using the quotation marks as you did
    implies a derogative intonation if it was used in speech, as it is often used
    by nationalistic and zionistic Israelis. (Goy/im per se is said not to be offensive
    in Ivrit context, unless it is indicated to be so by derogatory intonation).\r\n\r\nYou
    really should reflect on yourself. "
  created: '2009-01-24 20:36:17'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "@James:\r\n\r\nSorry, I started reading the thread from the beginning, and
    posted when I was halfway through it. I only noticed now, that you de-facto closed
    this thread. Sorry for opening it again. I no way wanted to be a grave-digger.
    (Actually, it must have been your closing post that brought it up in the Tracker
    again, making me read it).\r\n\r\nJust disregard my previous message, no need
    to go on."
  created: '2009-01-24 20:38:57'
date: '2009-01-02 21:29:28'
node_type: blog
title: Celebrities condemn Israeli attacks on Gaza

---
