---
author:
  name: user_1969
  picture: 116145
body: "A humble question/rant from a design student: Can someone please remind me
  why we like Helvetica? Has anyone considered the shape of the uppercase \u201CR\u201D?
  The letterform indicates it doesn\u2019t know whether it\u2019s serif or sans-serif;
  it looks more like it belongs to something like Didot than to other characters in
  the Helvetica set. The lowercase \u201Ca\u201D seems to have the same problem. Please
  see my examples below.\r\n\r\nI would have to say Gotham or Trade Gothic are much
  more beautiful than Helvetica and are true sans-serif typefaces\u2026even Futura
  has more consistent letterforms.\r\n\r\nCory Lasser\r\nParsons School Of Design\r\nDegree
  Candidate\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/HELL_3945.jpg]"
comments:
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "I'm with you on the 'R', but the rest of Helvetica's letter shapes are very
    consistent \u2014 even to a fault, some say. Have you seen the film? Some good
    opinions for and against in there.\r\n\r\nAs an aside, there is a reprise of the
    'R' foot in the bold lowercase 'a'."
  created: '2009-01-02 09:28:14'
- author:
    name: user_1969
    picture: 116145
  body: "Yes, I see the consistency between the uppercase \"R\" and the lowercase
    \"a\", but to me that is why they stick out from the rest of the set\u2026would
    you believe I still haven't seen the film? Perhaps it's what I need to understand
    why people are such fans of Helvetica. It would probably be more interesting than
    staring at the awful vinyl decal letters in the subway!\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nCory"
  created: '2009-01-02 09:45:38'
- author:
    name: user_1969
    picture: 116145
  body: And I also really want to shave off that descending tail on the uppercase
    "G"!
  created: '2009-01-02 09:47:24'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Not a beard fan, eh? That is probably a relic of Akzidenz. But many other
    grotesques and gothics (including Trade) have it too.
  created: '2009-01-02 10:17:59'
- author:
    name: paulstonier
    picture: 114324
  body: "The argument of modernists is that Helvetica is the most neutral of all typefaces.
    Thus allowing the message to be communicated without carrying any exterior implications.
    Much related to Beatrice Ward's crystal goblet argument.\r\n\r\n\"Now the man
    who first chose glass instead of clay or metal to hold his wine was a 'modernist'
    in the sense in which I am going to use that term. That is, the first thing he
    asked of his particular object was not 'How should it look?' but 'What must it
    do?' and to that extent all good typography is modernist.\"\r\n\r\nWhich is also
    why many post-modernists do not care for Helvetica.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nAlso, if you
    haven't noticed. It seems like Gotham is beginning to replace Helvetica in many
    instances."
  created: '2009-01-02 14:44:33'
- author:
    name: Graham McArthur
    picture: 109915
  body: "\"A humble question/rant from a design student: Can someone please remind
    me why we like Helvetica?\"\r\n\r\nI dislike Helvetica and its derivatives,  intensely."
  created: '2009-01-02 15:09:01'
- author:
    name: Marcelo Soler
    picture: 115167
  body: "I agree with your uncertainties about Helvetica, Cory, even though I like
    it but not as a fan.\r\nI would add to your questions the number \u201C1\u201D,
    but it's me.\r\nThanks for remembering me some old unaswered dilemmas.\r\n\r\nMarcelo
    Soler"
  created: '2009-01-02 15:37:55'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "It could just be a sign of the times, a historical thing: a reaction to typefaces
    past? In the fifties some people might have felt aversion to Futura and it's geometry,
    hence the 'serify' or 'humanist' R. Just a guess...\r\n\r\nprgr"
  created: '2009-01-03 13:50:00'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "@Cory: <em>. . . the consistency between the uppercase \u201CR\u201D and
    the lowercase \u201Ca\u201D,</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think the curly bits on Helvetica's
    R and a are meant to be related, but evolved with separate, unrelated origins
    in seriffed roman types. They just happen to look very similar. Appearances can
    be deceptive.\r\n\r\n@Graham: <em>I dislike Helvetica and its derivatives, intensely.</em>\r\n\r\nQ.
    What's the difference between Helvetica and a bucket of shite?\r\nA. The bucket
    has a handle.\r\nA. Shite can be used to fertilize plants.\r\n\r\nQ. Does my joke
    about Helvetica indicate I hate it too?\r\nA. Nope. I just like making fun of
    things others despize.\r\n\r\n@Paragraph: <em>It could just be a sign of the times,
    a historical thing: a reaction to typefaces past? In the fifties some people might
    have felt aversion to Futura and it\u2019s geometry, hence the \u2019serify\u2019
    or \u2019humanist\u2019 R. Just a guess...</em>\r\n\r\nThe curly leg on Helvetica's
    R is a piece of baggage residual from the face's origins in Akzidenz Grotesk and
    numerous 19th century \"grotesks\". From everything I've read about Helv the curly
    leg is not a backlash against geometric linear types but a form of tacit lineage
    to Didots, Baskerville, Bulmer and the like.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2009-01-03 16:35:11'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: While Helvetica is described as objective and neutral, it isn't really; it
    still has a lot of aspects that echo the broad-nib pen. E.g. contrast and stress
    (albeit little). I think the little flick on the leg of the R and the tail of
    the a also come from that.
  created: '2009-01-03 18:12:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The flick on the \"a\" could also come from trying to open up the tiny wedge
    of white to the left while keeping it from falling over.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-01-03 18:22:22'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "@Jelmar: <em>While Helvetica is described as objective and neutral, it isn\u2019t
    really; it still has a lot of aspects that echo the broad-nib pen. E.g. contrast
    and stress (albeit little). I think the little flick on the leg of the R and the
    tail of the a also come from that.</em>\r\n\r\nThis leads to another question.
    *Who* describes Helv as \"objective and neutral\" ? It may have been described
    that way by respectable aesthetes 50 or more years ago&#8212;by today's standards
    the design cannot be so described. Q.E.D: the definition of objective and neutral
    has moved on since Helvetica was unleashed.\r\n\r\nThese anomalies we're trying
    to explain could have their origins in the broad nib pen, or they could be imitation
    of traditional text typeface design. I favor the latter theory on the grounds
    that successful type designs are supposed to be closely based on existing types.
    Imitation of seriffed book romans is more likely than imitation of calligraphic
    forms.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2009-01-03 21:39:23'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "\" it still has a lot of aspects that echo the broad-nib pen. \"\r\n\r\nHUH?
    Oh please take me on this tour!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-01-04 01:19:14'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "By the way, as my daughters would say, WTF ('n) calligraphic pen are you
    using in your mind?\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-01-04 04:53:35'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "For the purposes of abstraction in type design, the contrast & stress thru-out
    Helvetica&#8212;including G-beard, split branching of bowl strokes from stems
    curly leg and atrophied curly tails&#8212;may be seen as &nbsp;f a i n t&nbsp;
    echos of broad nib pen calligraphy.\r\n\r\nFor the purposes of typo debate, it
    can be helpful to give more emphasis to some words and less emphasis to others.
    f a i n t &nbsp;<strong>e c h o s</strong>\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2009-01-04 15:40:22'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Yes, I meant echoes, that's why I said 'albeit little'. \r\n\r\nHelvetica's
    construction -- especially apparent in the m, n, p, etc -- clearly shows artifacts
    of the broad-nib. Or in other words, <em>translation</em> contrast, to use Noordzij's
    term from <em>The Stroke</em>. With which I indeed mean the split branching of
    the bowl strokes from stems. It obviously isn't a humanistic/calligraphic sans,
    but the remnants are there."
  created: '2009-01-04 17:04:09'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "That would be f    a    i    n    t       e    c    h    o    e    s  James.
    I think the lessened weight branch had less to do with the calligraphic pen and
    more about avoiding a blob or boredom! Same with most of the other \"\"\"nuances.\"\"\"
    \r\n\r\nSerifs on Copperplate Gothic did not make it a serifed face in my mind...
    it became an ornamented sans!\r\n\r\nedit: James, it does not show up but I have
    5 spaces between the letters in faint echoes for emphasis.\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-01-04 20:53:47'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "To prevent the typophile web application's text rendering engine from collapsing
    two or more consecutive spaces, add non-breaking virtual character entity spaces
    as an ampersand followed by nbsp;\r\n\r\nI put my faint echos in bold as a typographic
    pun on emphasis ;^)\r\n\r\nA pleasant and stimulating discussion gentlemen. Looking
    forward to more of this in 2009.\r\n\r\nHappy new year, best wishes and good vibes
    to you Michael (no fooling, no sarcasm, I say this in good faith). May 2009 bring
    you much happiness.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2009-01-05 22:36:50'
- author:
    name: TypographyShop
    picture: 114870
  body: "It's difficult to claim that any piece of art is entirely neutral.  One's
    associations with Helvetica are going to depend on the context in which one first
    saw it. Just as you might have feelings about a particular song and what it meant
    when you first heard it, not 20 years later after it becomes an overplayed classic
    you can no longer stand.\r\n\r\nWhile Helvetica may have been around since '57
    it really took off later in the 60s.  The best early widespread use of it involved
    the greatest practitioners of the day and the results were stunning.  Helvetica
    may have been the face of choice that moment, but its usage was forever being
    showcased within the context of a bold new look in design in general. Had Helvetica
    not been there to use I'm sure they would have chosen any suitable sans.\r\n\r\nIf
    your experience with the face began with more recent Helvetica usage revivals
    you might have a different association. Usages such as that employed by American
    Apparel, for example, are purposeful attempts to be ironic by employing the face
    to represent the unbranded, un-designed and personality devoid culture they espouse.\r\n\r\nJust
    as any color in a painting or note of a song is neutral until it is placed next
    to another, Helvetica's neutrality stops the moment it is placed into a layout,
    set in the words it will deliver."
  created: '2009-01-05 23:09:28'
- author:
    name: Matthew Lujan
    picture: 116280
  body: "<cite>Can someone please remind me why we like Helvetica?. . .I would have
    to say Gotham or Trade Gothic are much more beautiful than Helvetica\u2026even
    Futura has more consistent letterforms.</cite>\r\n\r\nI can dig what you're saying,
    as I myself have pondered on the few twists nestled within Helvetica, but I like
    Helvetica for this very reason - this questioning - because, when done right,
    there's no denying Helvetica just works for some mystical reason. Maybe we aren't
    to be reminded we like it. I personally feel the upper 'R' and lower 'a' know
    exactly what they are and where they belong."
  created: '2009-01-06 03:16:24'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Yes, the R in Helvetica sucks. But the rest of it makes a pretty sweet display
    face. I think Mike Parker makes the best argument for Helvetica when he describes
    how the shapes of the letters and tight spacing combined to just grab the negative
    spaces and lock them in place. As for neutrality, Kai Bernau did a great job in
    his thesis explaining how neutrality is contextual; ubiquity of certain weights
    has made Helvetica anything but neutral in some contexts.
  created: '2009-01-06 04:13:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It is easy to damn Helvetica in the 21st Century. You had to have been there
    in the early 60s to appreciate it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-01-06 05:47:43'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: But Chris, who here is *old* enough to remember that?
  created: '2009-01-06 21:08:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "ME!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-01-06 22:20:15'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "But Chris... you are also old enough to remember the launch (being that you
    are 103) of Optima and you do not like it, right? Why like a sterile form and
    eschew a nuanced form : ?\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-01-07 00:58:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I don't think in terms of sterile and nuanced as being good or bad. I loved
    Melior but hated Palatino. I love Univers and think Helvetica is good in display
    usage in the heavier weights. Actually, AG is better in the extra bold weight.\r\n\r\nThe
    significance of Helvetica is that it helped launch an avant garde movement later
    called the International Style. It was the sign of the young brash designer going
    against the establishment arty style of the 50s. That seems strange today where
    the old geezer establishment is looked upon as being the Helvetica flush-left
    crowd. Times come and go and what seems so hot, young, hip, sweet, and in today
    will be scorned in 30 years as establishment Lemming following.\r\n\r\nOptima
    was decent enough but not earthshaking. It was something neither here nor there.
    Helvetica was the face that launched 1000 ships while Optima christened a few
    lovely yachts. There were two camps back in the 60s. The pro-helvetica were then
    the young firebrands and the anti-helvetica were the establishment. This is all
    flip-flopped now--even more, Helvetica hating is expected and cheered by the current
    young designers. Helvetica has become so overused and so very badly used in recent
    years that you cannot help but shun it. Today, we blame the sins of the sons on
    the conception of the fathers.\r\nOptima filled a niche while Helvetica built
    the mountains, Today, the mountains have eroded badly and created many new niches
    to be filled. It is natures way, build, breakdown, and rebuild something new.
    We have all moved on and now can talk about Helvetica as a point in History--even
    make a film about it!\r\n\r\n ChrisL"
  created: '2009-01-07 15:43:15'
- author:
    name: Graham McArthur
    picture: 109915
  body: "Chris, I can follow and accept what your saying, and I am not going to disagree
    with your over all assessment of Helvetica & the 60's, but I quite like Optima
    & Palatino and dislike Helvetica & Melior, but I don't think these personal tastes
    are the core issue. Perhaps relevant in someway, but more a side issue.\r\nYou
    write: \"It was the sign of the young brash designer going against the establishment
    arty style of the 50s.\" I agree, and this to me is the core issue that made Helvetica
    the monster it turned out to be, and it would suggest that it was usage and typographic/
    graphic style that was really the issue and not the choice of type face. From
    my eyes there were better sans faces around long before Helvetica. Helvetica itself
    was nothing particularly new and certainly nothing creative or innovative at all
    in type face design as far as I can see (which may not be far). I think that Hans
    Mohring was far more interesting, different, innovative and creative in his sans
    designs during the 1920's (from memory) than Helvetica or anything produced in
    the 60's. The fact that Helvetica became the type face of the 60's and well into
    the 70's was more to do with it being a new release at the right time to suit
    the typographic style of the rebellious young graphic designers of the day.\r\nHelvetica
    was used by the avant garde of the 60's because it was as far removed from the
    tastes of the day as they could get, not because it was a good design. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-07 16:53:17'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "<cite>Helvetica was used by the avant garde</cite>\r\n\r\nI thought they
    used Avant Garde..."
  created: '2009-01-07 18:27:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "What a capital idea :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-01-07 19:10:14'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>The significance of Helvetica is that it helped launch an avant garde
    movement later called the International Style.</em>\r\n\r\nIt's actually kind
    of sad that Helvetica jumped onto the train of the International Typographic Style
    just in time to make the world believe Swiss Graphic Design really was *that*
    bland, or that Helvetica was causatively connected to it.\r\n\r\nAkzidenz Grotesk
    was the face that was almost invariably connected to the Swiss Style at its outset.
    A large majority of the earlier (Swiss) examples of the International Typographic,
    or Swiss, Style were set in AG, and Neue Haas Grotesk actually had a pretty slow
    start in Switzerland, most reactions indicating that graphic artists were very
    happy with AG, and weren't waiting for a \"tamed\" version of it. In fact, the
    power of many of those famous poster layouts relies in part on the greater tension
    and irregularity of the lettershapes \u2013 they would not have worked as well
    with Helvetica.* There is often a powerful but carefully balanced tension to those
    early layouts; many of them weren't anywhere near as bland as the Swiss Style
    has come to be seen (and reinterpreted) elsewhere, later.\r\n\r\n* Probably my
    favorite: <a href=\"http://www.plakatwp.ch/images/M%C3%BCller-Brockmann-02.jpg\">\"Weniger
    L\xE4rm\" bei Josef M\xFCller-Brockmann</a> (1960).\r\n\r\nSo, the avant garde
    of said movement, more often than not, <em>didn't</em> use Helvetica (and consciously
    so); the ones who copied and followed the avant garde did (and do) invariably
    use it, belying some of the original essence and intentions of the Swiss Style."
  created: '2009-01-08 09:54:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...the train of the International Typographic Style just in time to make
    the world believe Swiss Graphic Design really was *that* bland, or that Helvetica
    was causatively connected to it.\"\r\n\r\nI agree. That is why I separate the
    earlier Swiss graphic Design from the International Style even though one grew
    from the other. Naming it Helvetica after Switzerland further pushed the Swiss
    notion. As I said before, I much prefer Univers as a typeface from that time but
    it lost the battle of distribution along with AG or Standard as it was known in
    American metal cuts. AG was really the founding father and a better display face
    than Helvetica. Ask Weingart what he thinks about Helvetica some day and you will
    have time to finish several beers before he finishes his comparison :-)\r\nHelvetica
    won out not because it was better than Univers (or AG) but because it was quicker
    to phototype distribution and spread to typesetters with greater profusion. Typesetters
    usually did not have both Helvetica and Univers so they set what they had. Remember,
    purchasing a typeface in that day was a huge expense compared to the pennies they
    cost today.\r\nI am not enamored of Helvetica, I am just explaining its prominence,
    indeed dominance, of usage in that era. That does not make it good. It just makes
    it a benchmark in typographic history. \r\n\r\nMy favorite Swiss posters were
    Giselle and William Tell by Armin Hofmann. This may partly be due to studying
    with early students of Hofmann and Ruder.\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/WilliamTell_5803.jpeg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/giselle_4048.jpeg]"
  created: '2009-01-08 16:07:24'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"That is why I separate the earlier Swiss graphic Design from the International
    Style even though one grew from the other.\"</em>\r\n\r\nVery good point; it's
    puzzling that many people / sources don't seem to make this distinction. Of course,
    like you said, naming Helvetica Helvetica makes it even more confusing to realize
    that it actually hasn't fully pushed the \"Swiss\" aspect of the style, even if
    it is a Swiss design itself. As Colin Forbes is quoted in \"Helvetica \u2013 Homage
    to a Typeface\":\r\n\"Some years ago a young intern in our New York office, when
    looking at an old map where Switzerland was named Helvetia, said, 'Fancy naming
    a country after a typeface.'\"\r\n\r\n<em>I am not enamored of Helvetica, I am
    just explaining its prominence, indeed dominance, of usage in that era.</em>\r\n\r\nOh,
    absolutely. I didn't mean to disagree; and I also didn't assume you didn't already
    know what I wrote. But hey, you never know, there may be people reading this who
    didn't. In fact I wrote a design history paper back in school, setting out full
    of confidence to document the relationship between Helvetica and the Swiss Style,
    only to realize this didn't actually happen the way I [and many people around
    me] expected it to be, which would have been a near-symbiotic rise of Helvetica
    and the Swiss style as a couple made in heaven. \r\nSince then, mentions of the
    Helvetica\u2014Swiss connection still prompt my reflex to disambiguate their relationship.
    ;-)\r\n\r\n<em>My favorite Swiss posters were Giselle and William Tell by Armin
    Hofmann. This may partly be due to studying with early students of Hofmann and
    Ruder.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm envious! (And as a Basler, I'm of course proud you mention
    Hofmann rather than M\xFCller-Brockmann.*) Where, and with whom did you study
    if I may ask?\r\n\r\n* I actually absolutely adore the work of M\xFCller-Brockmann,
    except maybe the very late stuff. But Baslers of course relish any assertion that
    they're not any worse than the Zurichers. ;-)\r\n\r\nMy favorite poster by Hofmann
    is \"Spitzen\" (Lace; pardon the bad reproduction). The way he works the letterforms
    into the illustration is just amazing.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/spitzen_4905.jpg]"
  created: '2009-01-08 16:33:18'
date: '2009-01-02 07:57:19'
node_type: forum
title: Helvetica (Repost)

---
