---
author:
  name: fwistard
  picture: 111391
body: "Hello Typography Nerds,\r\n\r\nLet me start out by saying that this undertaking
  probably insults every fundamental rule and convention about typography and quality
  with which you are all so familiar. I am but a humble graphic artist without the
  mind nor the memory for such feats of typographic rhetoric with which you all so
  deftly wax poetic. In fact, when I design I am often boozy and operating without
  much more than a fraction of a percentage point of my brain (...an exertion, to
  be honest).\r\n\r\nThat said, I am going to experiment with new 'typefaces' every
  day for the month of January. I have recycled my <a href=\"http://covers.fwis.com\">Book
  Covers Blog</a> for the purpose. This is likely to result in broken links and tears.
  I won't spend very much time on them but I have all these sketches that I need to
  get out of my system while things are slow. You can download an EPS of each font
  which you must hand-set like they did in ye olden dayes. Sorry, but I'm too impatient
  and dumb to bother creating an OTF for each one - plus some of them probably won't
  work.\r\n\r\nYou are welcome to use these on personal or professional work - all
  I ask is that you don't hold me responsible for the client firing you, and that
  if god forbid it ever does make it to production, that you send me a copy of whatever
  you used my typefaces on.\r\n\r\nI have only posted three so far, as today is January
  3. If you have any comments and would like to post them here or on my blog, I would
  be grateful. \r\n\r\nIf you are ever in New york City I invite you to join me for
  a cigar which I hope will make up for my poor form.\r\n\r\nHere it is: <a href=\"http://type.fwis.com\">type.fwis.com</a>\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Graham McArthur
    picture: 109915
  body: "\"Let me start out by saying that this undertaking probably insults every
    fundamental rule and convention about typography and quality with which you are
    all so familiar.\"\r\n\r\nYou'll fit in well here then, because most contemporary
    type designers follow this path. I also suspect that you are applying too much
    time and thought in designing these sans faces. To be a real contemporary type
    nerd you have to spend even less time on quality and creativity.\r\nBesides, your
    designs already show too much character to generate any excitement here  :)"
  created: '2009-01-04 01:50:48'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "\"when I design I am often boozy and operating without much more than a fraction
    of a percentage point of my brain \"\r\n\r\nIt shows : )\r\n\r\nThe fact that
    you are in Oregon and invite us to have a cigar in NY anytime proves that you
    belong to the \"I can produce a font in a day crowd.\"\r\n\r\nI always heard the
    drugs were better on the left Coast.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-01-04 03:50:18'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "\"We will try and post a new typeface every day for free for the month of
    January, 2008.\"\r\n\r\nChris, that was a year ago. ;-D\r\n\r\nBy the way, I'm
    a fan and follower of your Book Covers Blog. Good luck with this new endeavor."
  created: '2009-01-04 06:14:18'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Chris, go for it. Altho it is very hard to arrive at original type designs
    in this age, go for it anyway. See what you can come up with. It's better than
    being a wet blanket.\r\n\r\n@Graham: <em>. . . most contemporary type designers
    follow this path</em>\r\n\r\nWithering stuff.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2009-01-04 15:54:33'
- author:
    name: fwistard
    picture: 111391
  body: Thanks for the comments so far, you scoundrels!
  created: '2009-01-04 23:44:35'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "\"Withering stuff.\"\r\n\r\ne. e. cummings right. Set in a dynamic and flavourful
    sans. Didn't read it : (\r\n Michael"
  created: '2009-01-05 01:43:01'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: How about "Withering Heights"? ;-D
  created: '2009-01-05 03:15:44'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Sarted that one too... no serifs. Fell asleep after a page and a half : )\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-01-05 03:29:58'
- author:
    name: Graham McArthur
    picture: 109915
  body: "@Graham: . . . most contemporary type designers follow this path\r\n\r\n@
    James: Withering stuff.\r\n\r\n\r\nQuite so, James, quite so. Yes, and also e
    e cummings can not be left out, eh, James?\r\nI am guessing as a poorly educated
    cretin that \"Withering stuff\" is in context to the dreary 'experimentalist'
    theory of art, but I could well be wrong of course - your choice.\r\n\r\nWe do
    live in a disturbed, complex and chaotic world and given the traditional instruments
    of the typographer, how shall the young immature, contemporary type designer with
    no experience and little knowledge of the origins of his chosen craft, orient
    himself and what bearing will the bewildering condition of the cosmos have on
    his thought and on his form? \r\nThe young contemporaries answer lies in the experimentalist's
    'withering' theory: \"old forms must be sacrificed to meet the new order of things
    and novelty and surprise become the important elements of style\". To meet the
    incongruous of modern life the young type designer must seek for incongruous combinations
    in his designs.\r\n\r\nThis can not be questioned, else typography becomes merely
    dried cheese contaminated by chirography imprisoned by the pen.\r\nHowever, we
    still have to question whether the younglings performances are convincing, and
    that is another matter.\r\n\r\nThe shock of a badly drawn and proportioned 'glyph',
    is admittedly a refreshing sight on occasion. But, the mono line, serif-less 'innovations'
    and 'watershed land-marks', that may seem at first so startling, specially combined
    with the new tricks of the latest software, have become so extreme and commonplace
    that they have already become monotonous and harden into a convention more rigid
    and conforming than the hated \"clich\xE9s\" of traditional type design and typography.\r\nThe
    aesthetic effect of the 'new' and 'innovative' rapidly loses any satisfaction
    of novelty that it originally had this is the problem with 'the shock of the new'.
    Then there are the voices. Such voices and advocates, some with charms and trinkets
    to lure the unwary and the easily led ill informed new kids on the block.\r\n\r\nOne
    may even be impressed with the poetic rhetoric of the loud noises produced by
    the heavy artillery of the \"whithering stuff\", but as the bombardment continues,
    it becomes merely tedious, just like its products and other big noises.\r\n\r\nAnd,
    yes, I suspect that fwistard is, like me, laughing at you rather than with you."
  created: '2009-01-05 12:54:26'
- author:
    name: fwistard
    picture: 111391
  body: 'A new one: <a href="http://type.fwis.com/paratype">Paratype</a>'
  created: '2009-01-05 20:33:17'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Chris, I love the concept and the typeface, but you may have to change the
    name to avoid legal woes:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.paratype.com/\r\n\r\n[EDIT] Of course,
    I realize you're not going to turn these ideas into actual fonts, but you should
    still avoid potential conflicts. :-)"
  created: '2009-01-05 20:56:10'
- author:
    name: fwistard
    picture: 111391
  body: Wow thanks for the pointer, Ricardo. If they ask me to change it/take it down
    I will for sure.
  created: '2009-01-05 21:09:35'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "Omnistroke Sans is brilliant! If only there was a matching set of Cyrillic...\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2009-01-05 22:20:19'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>Quite so, James, quite so. Yes, and also e e cummings can not be left
    out, eh, James?</em>\r\n\r\nIncorrect. You and Michael both guessed incorrectly.
    \"Withering stuff\" was not a reference to E. E. Cummings. I haven't even read
    E. E. Cummings because he is a wankshaft, and I don't waste my time reading the
    piddlings of wankshafts.\r\n\r\n<em>I am guessing as a poorly educated cretin
    that \u201CWithering stuff\u201D is in context to the dreary \u2019experimentalist\u2019
    theory of art, but I could well be wrong of course - your choice.</em>\r\n\r\nNope.
    Nothing to do with any theories of art. You are, as you say, of course wrong.
    \r\n\r\nMy choice: Graham's views of the craft of contemporary type design are
    the withering stuff. Uninformed, conceited, contemptuous, overblown and tedious.\r\n\r\n<em>...the
    young immature, contemporary type designer with no experience and little knowledge
    of the origins of his chosen craft...</em>\r\n\r\nYou assume way too much.\r\n\r\n<em>...what
    bearing will the bewildering condition of the cosmos have on his thought and on
    his form?</em>\r\n\r\nAre you in some kind of competition to write pretentious
    blather sprinkled with question marks?\r\n\r\n<em>The young contemporaries answer
    lies in the experimentalist\u2019s \u2019withering\u2019 theory: \u201Cold forms
    must be sacrificed to meet the new order of things and novelty and surprise become
    the important elements of style\u201D. To meet the incongruous of modern life
    the young type designer must seek for incongruous combinations in his designs.\r\n\r\nThis
    can not be questioned, else typography becomes merely dried cheese contaminated
    by chirography imprisoned by the pen. However, we still have to question whether
    the younglings performances are convincing, and that is another matter.\r\n\r\nThe
    shock of a badly drawn and proportioned \u2019glyph\u2019, is admittedly a refreshing
    sight on occasion. But, the mono line, serif-less \u2019innovations\u2019 and
    \u2019watershed land-marks\u2019, that may seem at first so startling, specially
    combined with the new tricks of the latest software, have become so extreme and
    commonplace that they have already become monotonous and harden into a convention
    more rigid and conforming than the hated \u201Cclich\xE9s\u201D of traditional
    type design and typography.\r\n\r\nThe aesthetic effect of the \u2019new\u2019
    and \u2019innovative\u2019 rapidly loses any satisfaction of novelty that it originally
    had this is the problem with \u2019the shock of the new\u2019. Then there are
    the voices. Such voices and advocates, some with charms and trinkets to lure the
    unwary and the easily led ill informed new kids on the block.\r\n\r\nOne may even
    be impressed with the poetic rhetoric of the loud noises produced by the heavy
    artillery of the \u201Cwhithering stuff\u201D, but as the bombardment continues,
    it becomes merely tedious, just like its products and other big noises.\r\n\r\nAnd,
    yes, I suspect that fwistard is, like me, laughing at you rather than with you.</em>\r\n\r\nYou
    know, you could make more money as pastry chef, so don't you waste your time on
    me.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2009-01-05 22:26:10'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Nope. pulled \"cummings\" out of the air because I did not feel like using
    the shift key!!!!\r\n\r\nAs to Graham's capabilities, I think he has forgotten
    more about the true nature of the letterform than you will ever learn. Pick up
    a pen and join the truly enlightened instead of rehashing the tired and the boring
    with a marginal changes here and there.!\r\n\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-01-05 22:42:13'
- author:
    name: fwistard
    picture: 111391
  body: The only thing that should be getting laughed at is the foolishness of my
    endeavor. Today's <a href="http://type.fwis.com/nuit">Les Nuit</a>
  created: '2009-01-06 13:55:51'
- author:
    name: BruceS63
    picture: 111542
  body: A nice start to the new year, Chris. Les Nuit reminds me of Matisse's work,
    and Eurochair makes me think of Elizabethan embroidery, of which my friend Marion
    Scoular is a master, and teaches worldwide. I look forward to seeing how you do
    in the last week of the month!
  created: '2009-01-06 14:22:51'
- author:
    name: scottsullivan
    picture: 115949
  body: "I really dig Eurochair!!\r\n\r\n- Scott Sullivan"
  created: '2009-01-07 03:25:15'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Geeze. & I was going to design 31 glyphs in 31 days :o(\r\n\r\n:o)\r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2009-01-07 04:46:36'
- author:
    name: rcc
    picture: 112031
  body: "<em>Geeze. & I was going to design 31 glyphs in 31 days :o(</em>\r\n\r\nThirty
    one days?! Sometimes it can take me at least that long to draw a proper sans cap
    I! \r\n\r\nHmmm... Maybe I <em>should</em> lay off the ouzo after all.  &nbsp;&nbsp;;)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-07 11:15:40'
- author:
    name: rcc
    picture: 112031
  body: "@James: <em>You know, you could make more money as pastry chef, so don\u2019t
    you waste your time on me.</em>\r\n\r\nZappa's \"Cosmic Debris,\" right? Better
    to quote Frank than e e cummings ... but \"wankshaft\"? C'mon, now. Next time
    try \"onanist\" instead. After all this is a family site & you're posting during
    prime time.&nbsp;;)\r\n\r\nEdit: BTW, I remembered the line as \"butcher,\" not
    \"pastry chef,\" & a quick rehearing of the track from <em>Apostrophe</em> proved
    my memory isn't totally shot yet."
  created: '2009-01-07 11:28:44'
- author:
    name: anthonyc
    picture: 112256
  body: "<em>\"This one was inspired by an old ad I found for fancy chairs\"</em>\r\n\r\nWe'd
    love to see the source ad!\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-07 16:32:12'
- author:
    name: fwistard
    picture: 111391
  body: <a href="http://type.fwis.com/truss_type">TrussType. I think my jpeg color-space
    is all screwed up. Sorry for any seizures you might suffer as a result of red-on-red.
    ANGRY COLORS.
  created: '2009-01-07 23:36:30'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Zappa\u2019s \u201CCosmic Debris,\u201D right?</em>\r\n\r\nI believe
    FZ spelled it <a href=\"http://209.142.155.49:8080/music/Frank_Zappa/Apostrophe/Frank%20Zappa%20-%20Apostrophe%20(')%20-%20back.jpg\">Cosmik
    Debris</a> (see also: Over-Nite Sensation).  :-)\r\n\r\n\"And now the doggie wee
    wee, I mean the TrussType, has blinded me! And I can't see... temporarily.\" ;-)"
  created: '2009-01-08 07:32:57'
- author:
    name: rcc
    picture: 112031
  body: "@Ricardo: &nbsp; Nit-picked, point taken, right you are, and so I sit ...
    er, stand corrected. &nbsp;Lesson learned: sober up and spel chek befour postin'.\r\n\r\nThanks
    & best regards,\r\nRichard\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-08 10:27:27'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Nice initials, rcc. :-) Sorry to be such a nit-picker!
  created: '2009-01-08 18:59:15'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Heh! This is disappointing. I was hoping for much more fallout than resulted
    from my ad hominem personal attack on Graham.\r\n\r\nI walked away hoping a big
    mess would result but I guess I didn't push hard enuff. Tsk, tsk. What amazes
    me is that nobody flagged Graham's ad hominem personal attack on me, which he
    made in retaliation for my criticism of his postings, not criticism of him. If
    I attack a person, that's ad hominem. If I attack a person's ideas or their artwork,
    that's criticism, plain and simple.\r\n\r\nThe amazing thing is that ad hominem
    takes place all over the internet all day and all nite continuously, and most
    internet users do nothing about it.\r\n\r\nSo you all failed the \"spot the ad
    hominem attack\" test. Somebody should have moderated Graham for his ad hominem
    personal attack on me, and should also have flagged my ad hominem argument against
    him made in retaliation.\r\n\r\nBut you did pass the \"I dare you to retaliate
    endlessly and get all uncivil\" test. The thread did not degenerate into an uncivil
    mess.\r\n\r\nThis is good! Typo discussions should be about type, not about the
    peeple discussing the type.\r\n\r\nBy the way --- standards for literary plagiarism
    differ greatly from those for graphic and typeface design. In the commercial writing
    business we call borrowing of another's words \"lingua franca\" or currency. Other
    commercial writers I work with freely borrow original lingua franca from me and
    I borrow freely from them, and we all borrow freely from folks like Frank Zappa,
    Hampton Francher, Poe, Joseph Conrad, F.D. Roosevelt, etcetera, etcetera. The
    practice isn't thought of nor is it called \"plagiarism\" because borrowing only
    one line is a fair cop, whereas --- by definition --- plagiarism is the borrowing
    a whole novel or a whole typeface design and passing it off as your own work.
    At least nobody in the commercial writing business bothers claiming the lingua
    franca they borrow is original or even theirs.\r\n\r\nYet here in the type world,
    we have plagiarists who knock off entire typeface designs and claim it as their
    own work, and original too. Ha ha, bloody ha. That's the type business for you.\r\n\r\n@rcc:
    Normally I do credit my sources when I use lines written by another artist. This
    time around I replaced \"butcher\" with pastry chef to avoid accusations of using
    violent word imagery. \"Butcher\" involves the use of knives to cut up the carcasses
    of animals.\r\n\r\nI can remember most lines from most Zappa songs accurately,
    when I choose to. I chose to modify it this time to avoid breaching the civility
    guidelines. It helps to be careful with your choice of worms.\r\n\r\n<em>Better
    to quote Frank than e e cummings ... but \u201Cwankshaft\u201D? C\u2019mon, now.
    Next time try \u201Conanist\u201D instead. After all this is a family site & you\u2019re
    posting during prime time. ;)</em>\r\n\r\nHeh! I like your sense of humor. It's
    flexible and I like flexible peeple.\r\n\r\nOn the subject of how worthwhile this
    31 fonts in 31 days project is: I endorse things like this because experimentation
    is good for type design. Never say never. We just don't know what he may come
    up with. It may appear pointless on the surface, but really we shouldn't judge
    a book by its cover. It aint over 'til the fat laydee sings.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2009-01-09 07:41:01'
- author:
    name: fwistard
    picture: 111391
  body: "You guys are weird.\r\n\r\nToday we have my <a href=\"http://type.fwis.com/koolhand\">Most
    uselessest OCDest hero-worshipest typeface yet</a>. I think I probably just sorta
    zen out on stuff like this while listening to music and rocking back and forth.
    Nyurrrrhhh...."
  created: '2009-01-09 18:48:02'
- author:
    name: scottsullivan
    picture: 115949
  body: "Hey homie! Koolhand is pretty fun! I really like the 'B' and the 'W'\r\n\r\n-
    Scott Sullivan"
  created: '2009-01-09 19:02:20'
- author:
    name: AtoZ
    picture: 116285
  body: "<em>\"By the way \u2014- standards for literary plagiarism differ greatly
    from those for graphic and typeface design.\"</em>\r\n\r\nApparently each field
    has it own standards regarding borrowing/stealing other's work. Those of you old
    enough will remember Tom Lehrer's observations about the field of mathematics:\r\n\r\n<em>I
    am never forget the day I first meet the great Lobachevsky.\r\nIn one word he
    told me secret of success in mathematics:\r\nPlagiarize!\r\n\r\nPlagiarize,\r\nLet
    no one else's work evade your eyes,\r\nRemember why the good Lord made your eyes,\r\nSo
    don't shade your eyes,\r\nBut plagiarize, plagiarize, plagiarize -\r\nOnly be
    sure always to call it please 'research'.\r\n\r\n\"And ever since I meet this
    man\r\nMy life is not the same,\r\nAnd Nicolai Ivanovich Lobachevsky is his name.\r\n\r\n.
    . .\r\n\r\nI am never forget the day my first book is published.\r\nEvery chapter
    I stole from somewhere else.\r\nIndex I copy from old Vladivostok telephone directory.\r\nThis
    book was sensational!\r\nPravda - well, Pravda - Pravda said: \"Zhil-bil korol
    kogda-to, pree nyom blokha zhila\" It stinks.\r\nBut Izvestia! Izvestia said:
    \"Ya idoo kuda sam czar idyot peshkom!\" \r\nIt stinks.\r\nMetro-Goldwyn-Moskva
    buys movie rights for six million rubles,\r\nChanging title to 'The Eternal Triangle',\r\nWith
    Ingrid Bergman playing part of hypotenuse.\r\n\r\nAnd who deserves the credit?\r\nAnd
    who deserves the blame?\r\nNicolai Ivanovich Lobachevsky is his name.\r\nHi!</em>\r\n\r\nLobachevsky
    would not have been well-liked if he had been a type-designer. (But he may nevertheless
    have been successful--sigh).\r\n&nbsp;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<em>When
    going from </em>A to Z,\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<em>I
    often end up </em>At Oz."
  created: '2009-01-10 05:59:50'
- author:
    name: kosal
    picture: 109775
  body: Hmm..I thought I posted a comment on your site but it didn't get through.
    Anyways, about Koolhand. I couldn't even tell they were letters from the pics
    on the front page, but the whole alphabet in the eps makes a great poster!
  created: '2009-01-10 10:43:05'
- author:
    name: scottsullivan
    picture: 115949
  body: "late congratulations on gettin' on [[http://ilovetypography.com/|I love Typography!!]]\r\n\r\n-
    Scott Sullivan"
  created: '2009-01-22 00:09:36'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: hey eurochair is awesome!
  created: '2009-01-22 06:58:41'
date: '2009-01-03 20:56:27'
node_type: forum
title: 'I design 31 typefaces in 31 days:'

---
