---
author:
  name: John Hudson
  picture: 110397
body: "A few months ago, there was a <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/37310\">lively
  discussion</a> -- taking off orthogonally from a discussion of Noordzij's distinction
  between rule and law -- regarding the origins of the English neoclassical style
  of type associated with John Baskerville. During this, James Mosley brought to our
  attention a plate from George Shelley's <em>Alphabets in all the hands</em> of 1715,
  along with Beatrice Warde's observation that \u2018Baskerville was only the first
  to admit into the typefoundry a type that had been clamouring outside its door for
  at least half a century.\u2019\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Shelley1715_5145.jpg]\r\n\r\nThis
  sent me in search of other examples of neoclassical roman letters among the works
  of writing masters, and the earliest I found was in an earlier work by Shelley:
  <em>Natural Writing in all the Hands, with Variety of Ornament</em> of 1709.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Shelley1709_3900.jpg]\r\n\r\nWhat
  struck me about Shelley's roman letters, even in the earlier, rougher example, is
  how mature the style seemed, and I wondered if Shelley could claim to have invented
  this form of written letters, or only to have perfected it.\r\n\r\nRecently, I came
  across <em>The Pen-man's Paradise</em> of 1695 by John Seddon (in a fine facsimile
  edition produced by Jan Tschichold in 1966), which contains these two examples of
  what I will call proto-neoclassical roman:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Seddon1695_5514.gif]\r\n\r\nThe
  larger example at the bottom occurs on the title page of the book, amid various
  other styles, and the specimen above in a plate dated 1695 (a few plates in the
  book are from the previous year or undated). There are many interesting aspects
  of this. I call it proto-neoclassical because some of the characteristics that we
  associate with neoclassical letters are only shakily present: the axis is predominantly
  vertical, or close to vertical, but is not consistent; the lowercase y is a form
  rejected from the mature style, as are the serifless descenders on p and q. On the
  other hand, if one looks at the lowercase a and g, one sees immediately the characteristic
  forms that we identify as 'Baskerville'.\r\n\r\nSeddon was born in 1644 and died
  in 1700. He was a master at Sir John Johnson's Free Writing School at Priest's Corner,
  Foster Lane, London. <em>The Pen-mans Paradise both Pleasant and Profitable</em>
  was the second of three exemplars with which he is associated, the previous being
  <em>The Ingenious Youth's Companion</em> of 1690. The plates in both volumes were
  engraved by one John Stuart.\r\n\r\nThe third book bearing Seddon's name was published
  posthumously in 1705 under the title <em>The Penman's Magazine,</em> but what is
  most interesting and exciting about this book is that only the decorative flourishes
  were by Seddon: the writing exemplars were by George Shelley. The subtitle of the
  book is <em>a new copy-book, of the English, French and Italian hands, after the
  best mode; after the originals of John Seddon. Perform'd by George Shelley.</em>
  So there is a direct connection between the proto-neoclassical roman of John Seddon
  and the fully mature style written by George Shelley. Given Shelley's dates (c.1666\u2013c.1736),
  we can assume that he knew Seddon personally; certainly he was familiar with Seddon's
  published works.\r\n\r\nI hope to track down copies of the 1690 and 1705 books."
comments:
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Here is a higher resolution scan of the Seddon roman:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/SeddonLarge_6291.gif]"
  created: '2009-01-03 18:18:07'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Good work, John.\r\n\r\nI found the 1705 Seddon in the Library of Congress
    catalog (Z43 .S395). I\u2019ll take a look at it when I get back to DC (after
    Jan. 10). It looks like I can access it in the general reading room, so I might
    even be able to get pictures or go back with a scanner. If you want to correspond
    with the librarians to see if they might have the 1690 and I just can\u2019t find
    it I\u2019ll look at it, too. "
  created: '2009-01-03 20:22:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "That's great, James. I'm very keen to see how Shelley \u2018perform\u2019d\u2019
    Seddon\u2019s roman.\r\n\r\nThe idea of performing a script is a nice one, and
    not metaphorical (or not only metaphorical). In linguistics, there are concepts
    of competence and performance that can be applied directly to writing (Tom Milo
    has made good use of these in his analysis of Arabic writing).\r\n\r\nI reckon
    that if we were to collect together all the specimens of George Shelley\u2019s
    writing between 1695 and 1715 we would see the maturation of this style of lettering
    into the form that, some decades later, John Baskerville asked John Handy to cut
    as type. What I'm intrigued to know now is how soon in that period Shelley began
    perfecting what John Seddon had, apparently, initiated.\r\n\r\n___\r\n\r\nOn a
    related topic, it occurs to me that because of its origin in the commercial and
    educational exemplars of the writing masters, the neoclassical roman is -- in
    the normal typographical way of looking at things -- unusual in that it postdates
    the development of the neoclassical italic. Seddon's roman plate also includes
    an italic, of which I can post a scan if people are interested. It didn't seem
    to me terribly interesting, though, because a far more accomplished neoclassical
    italic is already fully evident in <em>Les Ecritures Financiere, et Italienne-Bastarde</em>
    of Louis Barbedor (1647), in a form that is recognisably the model behind Fournier's
    italic types.\r\n\r\nThere is a single plate in the Barbedor book showing a roman
    specimen, but although the letteforms display some influence of the split nib
    pen, they are essentially oldstyle.\r\n\r\n[There is another interesting aspect
    to Barbedor's book: the specimens of non-Latin scripts at the end of the book
    are identical to those produced by George Bickham at the end of <em>The Universal
    Penman</em>, almost a hundred years later. Only the arrangement on the page and
    the quality of the engraving differs: the sample texts and letterforms are exactly
    the same. This leaves me wondering if Barbedor was the first to use these, or
    if he too copied another master, and whether Bickham copied them directly from
    Barbedor, or from another, intermediate copy. In any case, I used to think that
    Bickham was the first\u2014and perhaps only\u2014person to have attempted to write
    Arabic with a split nib, but apparently it was Barbedor, or someone else in the
    17th century.]"
  created: '2009-01-04 04:19:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...its origin in the commercial and educational exemplars of the writing
    masters...</em>\r\n\r\nWhat of other media?\r\nEngraving, for instance, or lapidary
    inscriptions such as on grave stones.\r\nPerhaps there was more cross-pollination
    between those media than with typography.\r\nYou would have to examine the style
    of lettering on engraved book title pages contemporary with and before Seddon,
    to verify your pen-driven theory.\r\n\r\nBaskerville must have been aware of Pine's
    famous \"completely engraved\" Horace, in which all the text was hand engraved,
    rather than typeset. Pine's style was neoclassical. I don't have an example of
    the text, but here is the title page:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Pine1_5874.jpg]"
  created: '2009-01-04 09:08:36'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick, I certainly don't discount either engraved or carved lettering from
    the development of neoclassical type, although in terms of grave stones I have
    not seen anything as directly linked to the Baskerville style as is evident in
    the writing exemplars. But the engraving and the stone carving themselves need
    to be seen in the context of the pen because the split nib had, before the mid-17th
    Century, almost completely replaced the broad nib in European text production.
    The split nib defined the relationship of thick and thin strokes that are one
    key aspect -- and certainly not the only aspect -- of neoclassical (and later
    romantic) lettering. It is this that made it possible for Barbedor to produce,
    by pen, something akin to Fournier's neoclassical italic more than a hundred years
    prior.\r\n\r\nPine's title page is grand. It is also 1733, by which point we have
    ample evidence of the neoclassical roman being a <em>standard style</em> offered
    and taught by the writing masters. I agree that it would be a good idea to look
    at engraved title pages of the late 17th Century, around the time that Seddon
    was writing: there may well have been cross-fertilisation. On the other hand,
    the split nib had been in use, and increasing dominance, for over a hundred years
    at that point, and I don't think it is possible to extract an origin for neoclassical
    letters independent of the influence of that tool on the textual aesthetics of
    the age."
  created: '2009-01-04 19:45:40'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Qwho_6704.png]'
  created: '2009-01-04 21:12:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>the split nib had been in use... for over a hundred years at that point</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    would seem to disprove a theory of direct causality through technological determinism.\r\nIf
    the exemplar had been so apparent for so long, why was it not acted upon?\r\n\r\nWe
    tend to see a continuity of form across media, but did they?\r\nOn the subject
    of gravestones, many of those carved during the 17th and 18th century featured
    sans serif and unstressed letter forms, yet these did not make their way into
    type until the 19th century, and even then, the influence came from elsewhere
    (Ancient Greece?!) despite the fact that God-fearing typefounders would have passed
    by a potentially inspiring cornucopia of letter forms every Sunday.\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    the intense conservatism of English type culture was a result of the dead hand
    of the Company of Stationers. Caslon may never have had a chance to create his
    new Romans (which were not even particularly radical), had he not made a name
    for himself with his scholarly (Arabic, IIRC) fonts.\r\n\r\nNot surprisingly,
    the first evidence of neoclassicism/modernism in British type came during the
    Scottish Enlightenment--Wilson's work for the Foulis--which may be associated
    with the relaxation of the copyright laws there in the early 18th century, and
    the subsequent boom in Scottish publishing.\r\n\r\nThis pre-dates Baskerville:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Mu49-e5titlepage_5802.jpg]"
  created: '2009-01-04 21:18:52'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>This would seem to disprove a theory of direct causality through
    technological determinism.</em>\r\n\r\nI never argued causality through technological
    determinism; I don't believe in technological determinism. The making of things
    is the meeting of ideas and tools, and what we recognise as neoclassical letters
    of the form later cast in type appears to originate in the work of certain London
    writing masters around the turn of the 17th\u201318th Centuries. What enables
    us to identify these letters as neoclassical is the larger intellectual and cultural
    milieu in which they developed (the ideas) -- and how they express those ideas
    -- but what gives them their shape is the characteristics of the split nib pen
    (the tools). You need both ideas and tools in order to make something, and the
    nature of the ideas combined with the nature of the tools will guide the making
    and contribute to the nature of the thing made. If you change the mix, you end
    up with a different thing; so, for example, if the ideas of neoclassicism were
    applied to text but in the absence of the split nib pen, the letters we would
    identify as neo-classical would look quite different from what, in fact, were
    produced during that cultural period. The fact that the dominant use of the split
    nib pen preceded the ideas of neoclassicism, I would argue, defined the context
    within which those ideas were applied to lettering.\r\n\r\nThroughout the 17th
    Century, new writing styles were being developed and perfected, using the split
    nib pen, which are not neoclassical. The tool does not determine that neoclassical
    letters will be made: it can be used to make a variety of letterforms, one of
    which is the neoclassical roman, which occurs when people start to apply ideas
    of neoclassical aesthetics to formal lettering."
  created: '2009-01-04 22:26:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'David, yeah that Q is really something. This is another reason why I classify
    this as proto-neoclassical: it ain''t quite there yet! I would say that even in
    George Shelley''s 1715 ''French Cannon'' he hasn''t figured out a very satisfactory
    treatment for this letter.'
  created: '2009-01-04 22:42:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...the neoclassical roman, which occurs when people start to apply ideas
    of neoclassical aesthetics to formal lettering.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's not what happened.
    \r\nCertain letter forms present in writing manuals may have been subsequently
    incorporated into typographic works with a neo-classical or modern aesthetic,
    but it's hard to see how such an aesthetic influenced the calligraphers, as they
    embellished their specimen pages with a \"Variety of Ornament\"--compare with
    the austerity of the Foulis title page. Also, the roman letter was a small part
    of their repertoire, as the commercial hands they taught were mainly cursive scripts.
    As calligraphers, they approached the roman as they had for centuries, as the
    classical part of their repertoire, rendering it with an upright stress and delicacy
    of treatment at large size, nothing neo about that.\r\n\r\nThe published writing
    master manuals were not literal photographic reproductions of pen work, but were
    showcases of the engraver's art which took liberties with the calligraphic image
    to present it in as favorable a light as possible. 18th century \"photoshopping\"
    providing the illusion of perfect interminable one-stroke flourishes. It would
    be fascinating to compare Shelley or Bickham's originals with the printed page.\r\n\r\nThe
    proto-neoclassical roman letter, as conceived of by George Bickham in the <em>Universal
    Penman</em>, was a bit player in a sumptuously engraved Rococo extravaganza:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/3968521_5544.jpg]\r\n\r\nSo
    perhaps it was by contrasting roman letters with ornate calligraphic scripts,
    in the same elaborate layout, and driving them further apart stylistically, that
    calligraphers and engravers refined and evolved the classical element of their
    roman lettering to a point where modernist/neoclassical typographers could say,
    hey, that's cool, but kill the gingerbread."
  created: '2009-01-05 02:10:18'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>As calligraphers, they approached the roman as they had for centuries,
    as the classical part of their repertoire, rendering it with an upright stress
    and delicacy of treatment at large size, nothing neo about that.</em>\r\n\r\nExcept
    that there's a long period in which the roman effectively disappears from the
    repertoire of the writing masters, presumably because it so successfully became
    the domain of the typographer. There was little or no call for it to be written;
    instead, a large variety of regional and commercial cursive hands developed, first
    with the broad nib (e.g. Civilit\xE9) and then with the split nib. It isn't until
    the late 1600s that there seems to be a desire to reintroduce the roman letter,
    but with the attendant problems of how to write it with the split nib. And Seddon's
    examplar in <em>The Pen-man\u2019s Paradise</em> shows just how problematic it
    was: this is not something that scribes had been 'doing for centuries', it was
    something new that needed to be worked out. Why did this happen at this time?
    I think it was due to a couple of factors: one was the developments within the
    cursive styles that had produced forms that were sympatico to the aesthetics of
    the day, and the other was the massive increase in the amount of written material
    being produced by scribes and their pupils as Britain's overseas trade and empire
    flourished. The oldstyle roman letter offered by the typographers didn't fit within
    this new context, and the writing masters responded by developing a new form of
    roman letter. I think it is probably fair to say that this development was, in
    some respects at least, in collaboration with the engravers: engraving was the
    medium by which writing exemplars -- for which there seems to have been an almost
    inexhaustible market in the first half of the 18th century -- were reproduced
    and published. The writing masters worked closely with their engraver/publishers,
    and in some cases we can see directly how the latter refined the quality of the
    written model (the non-Latin specimens at the end of <em>The Universal Penman</em>
    are a case in point, because the engraving is superior to the identical forms
    in the end of Barbedor's book from which they were copied).\r\n\r\n<em>So perhaps
    it was by contrasting roman letters with ornate calligraphic scripts, in the same
    elaborate layout, and driving them further apart stylistically, that calligraphers
    and engravers refined and evolved the classical element of their roman lettering
    to a point where modernist/neoclassical typographers could say, hey, that\u2019s
    cool, but kill the gingerbread.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, I would agree with that. Although
    I'd like to stick with the label neoclassical, rather than 'modernist'.\r\n\r\nBy
    the way, although the ornamental context of Bickham's roman (and Shelley's, and
    Champion's, and Brook's, and Austin's, and Clark's, etc.) might not strike us
    as properly austere enough to be called classical, the letterforms are fully realised
    by about 1730, and not in any way 'proto'. The context might not fit with our
    ideas of classicism, but the letters themselves are 'all the way there'."
  created: '2009-01-05 03:56:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "John, why \"neoclassical\"?\r\nWhat's wrong with the traditional typographic
    term, \"transitional\"?"
  created: '2009-01-05 07:06:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "As I explained in the earlier discussion, the term 'transitional' suggests
    that, somehow, Baskerville and his contemporaries were interpolating between oldstyle
    and the yet to be created 'modern' (i.e. romantic) style. It is ahistorical.\r\n\r\nI
    have not used any of those 'traditional typographic terms' for well over a decade,
    because even when I first encountered them they seemed to me silly. They don't
    relate to anything except themselves, and they contribute to the false impression
    that the history of typography is somehow unrelated to any other history. Further,
    it is a specialised lingo that alienates discussion of typography from discussion
    of culture that any reasonably educated person might understand. We call painting,
    architecture, sculpture, music, etc. produced during a particular period and showing
    evidence of shared aesthetic concerns 'neoclassical'. I call types produced during
    that same period and showing evidence of the same aesthetic concerns by the same
    name."
  created: '2009-01-05 16:55:00'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...the term \u2019transitional\u2019 suggests that, somehow, Baskerville
    and his contemporaries were interpolating between oldstyle and the yet to be created
    \u2019modern\u2019...\r\n\r\nMaybe to you, but I thought later scholars invented
    the term<em> because it fit</em>, (as it does in many disciplines for the many
    transitions relative to specifics in each discipline where neither 'proto-' or
    'post-' are apt). \r\n\r\nTrying to herd all the \"shared aesthetic concerns\"
    and terms together into a straight formation; I think Pericles, Aristotle and
    Mozart, all reached their peaks of Classical-ness without peaking at each other's
    shared aesthetic concerns, much less each other.\r\n\r\nBesides which, where does
    a shared aesthetic of 16th century, (or any of the many ages of) neo-classicism
    appear with proto-modern serif typography? It seems decidedly anti-classical typographically
    to me, in the same way that Zapf's faces of the early 50's were anti-modern, (or
    is all the shared aesthetic of that era 'Atomic';). The history of typography
    is somehow related to every history I think, but it's appearance is often not,
    as in this case.\r\n\r\nI really like the pictures though. :)\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-10 19:58:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>It seems decidedly anti-classical typographically to me.</em>\r\n\r\nRight.
    The transitional letterform was clearly heading in the direction of the modern
    (Didone) letter, which is informed by a quite different sensibility than the brush-driven
    strokes of antiquity, or the broad-pen shapes of the Carolignian revival during
    the Incunabula, either of which, one would think, would be the prime candidates
    for a neoclassical approach to type design during the 18th century. But in fact,
    the big neoclassical era of type design was the historicist era of the early 20th
    century--yet the graphic design history books are all about that being a modernist
    era, taking their cue from fine art. So the problem with trying to relate type
    history to other histories is, we end up with someone else's history, a false
    history.\r\n\r\nAnd yet the transitional letter was well suited to the Foulis'
    neoclassical layouts, just as the modern letter was well suited to those other
    great publishers of classical texts, the Didots.\r\n\r\nAnd the transitional letterform
    was developed in a Rococo environment?\r\n\r\nIt just doesn't make any sense at
    all if we try and fit type design into traditional cultural categories, and theorize
    that the aesthetics of letter design are driven by the aesthetics of page layout.\r\n\r\nType
    design and page layout (graphic design/art direction) don't serve the same master.\r\n\r\nI
    think people such as Richard Austin, who in 1819 wrote of Didot's invention of
    the \"Modern\" style of type, and pinned it on technological progress, had it
    right, and type terminology has always had it right with its oldstyle--transitional--modern
    timeline.\r\nTypography was modernised during the age of revolutions--and there
    is no reason that fact can't be related to other historiographies, closer to the
    history of science, politics and technology than to the fine arts.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2009-01-11 00:59:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>The transitional letterform was clearly heading in the direction
    of the modern (Didone) letter, which is informed by a quite different sensibility
    than the brush-driven strokes of antiquity, or the broad-pen shapes of the Carolignian
    revival during the Incunabula, either of which, one would think, would be the
    prime candidates for a neoclassical approach to type design during the 18th century.</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    term neoclassicism should not be confused with classicism. Neoclassicism refers
    collectively to particular movements in painting, architecture, music, applied
    arts, etc. -- each with its own distinctive characteristics and timeframe, but
    also with what I've called 'shared aesthetic concerns' -- which recognisably rose
    to prominence between the mid-18th century and, in various guises, through to
    the end of the 19th century. Of course, they overflow on either end of this period,
    and hence you do get the development of a letterform that becomes characteristic
    of English neoclassical typography during the later baroque period and influence
    of rococo. The idea that neoclassical lettering would reference letterforms of
    antiquity directly mischaracterises the nature of neoclassicism, which was a new
    style based more on an ideal of classical beauty than on actual classical models.\r\n\r\nThe
    'Didone' letter is a romantic development and, like romanticism in music, it takes
    the structures of neoclassicism and pushes all the dynamics to extremes."
  created: '2009-01-11 04:00:29'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>The idea that neoclassical lettering would reference letterforms of antiquity
    directly mischaracterises the nature of neoclassicism, which was a new style based
    more on an ideal of classical beauty than on actual classical models.</em>\r\n\r\nAt
    least in the realms of painting, sculpture, and architecture with which I am most
    familiar, I think you're understating the prominence of antique works as formal
    models in Neoclassicism. ([[http://www.metmuseum.org/toah/hd/neoc_1/hd_neoc_1.htm|Here's]]
    a useful overview of Neoclassicism in sculpture and painting.) "
  created: '2009-01-11 04:21:59'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>So the problem with trying to relate type history to other histories
    is, we end up with someone else\u2019s history, a false history.</em>\r\n\r\nBringhurst's
    \"Historical Interlude\" strikes me as a case in point."
  created: '2009-01-11 04:30:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I think you\u2019re understating the prominence of antique works as formal
    models in Neoclassicism.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think so. Classical antiquity certainly
    provides the <em>thematic</em> models for neoclassicism, but neoclassicism produces
    distinctive forms. The gallery of images at the top of the painting and sculpture
    page to which you link provides a good illustration of this: the antique works
    are immediately distinguishable from the later ones. This isn't always the case
    when looking at works of renaissance classicism, which referenced antique models
    much more directly. Neoclassicism involves idealisation of classical forms and
    themes.\r\n\r\nI'll also draw attention to the level of decorative detail in the
    neoclassical works, as compared to the antique. Earlier, Nick was objecting to
    the rococo ornamental setting and eclecticism of the proto-neoclassical lettering
    in Bickham's dedication page as being contrary to classicism, but neoclassicism
    doesn't always imply a rejection of ornamentation, as e.g. <a href=\"http://www.metmuseum.org/toah/hd/neoc_1/ho_2002.265.1a,b,.2a.htm\">W\xFCrth's
    wine coolers</a> demonstrate. These are worth considering, and asking oneself
    the question 'What kind of letters harmonise best with these forms?'"
  created: '2009-01-11 15:36:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "So, presuming that I had labelled this thread 'Proto-transitional roman'
    instead of 'Proto-neoclassical roman', might the discussion have differed? I'm
    less interested in the art historical classification than in the process by which
    an attempt to create a formal roman letter written with a split nib in the late
    17th Century results eventually in the types of Baskerville and his contemporaries.
    I'm particularly interested in this because, after the manner of people with a
    product to push, and in an age characterised by narratives of innovation as much,
    or more, than by innovation itself, Baskerville's types have long been presented
    as novel inventions. Justin Howes, who was a fine historian of the 18th Century
    obsession with progress, documented the early development of a narrative in which
    type founders and printers beginning with 'Mr Baskerville of Birmingham that enterprising
    place' produced a new and improved type without any reference to non-typographical
    sources.* Unfortunately, I think Justin accepted too readily this account, and
    gets it exactly backwards when he writes that the impact of belief in 'perpetual
    improvement' that he associates with the development of new types was less evident
    in 'other forms of letter design (such as hand- or sign-writing, inscriptional
    and engraved lettering) ..., other than where these were affected by fashions
    in type design'. This simply doesn't stand up to the evidence of the artefacts,
    in which the letters that became the 'new types' exist in written and engraved
    forms long before they were cast in type.\r\n\r\n* \u2018Extreme type: progress,
    \u201Cperfectibility\u201D and letter design in eighteenth-century Europe\u2019,
    in <em>Typography Papers 7,</em> 2007."
  created: '2009-01-11 17:29:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "John, I agree with you about the origins of the transitional style in non-type
    media (if not about terms of classification), but Shelley's influence on Baskerville
    isn't news. For instance, it is mentioned on page 107 of David Consuegra's <em>American
    Type Designers</em> (2004).\r\n\r\nAnd as I mentioned above, Alexander Wilson
    was an earlier proponent of the transitional form in type, with his work being
    published in trade quantity, in minimalist layouts by the Foulis. So notwithstanding
    his very real merit and influence, the famous Mr Baskerville will perhaps in future
    attract less credit for innovation in certain areas."
  created: '2009-01-11 19:40:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I haven't done a broad survey, but it seems to me that in the arts generally
    there was a diversity of lettering styles employed during the neoclassical era.
    For instance, on his antique-style bust of the abolitionist Abb\xE9 Raynal, Espercieux
    used the modern letter, but in his painting of the bust in <em>Portrait of C(itizen)
    Belley</em>, Girodet adopted a more antique letter. These from the 1790s. \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/raynal_3531.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/belley_4657.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nIn
    one of his least classical works,<em> The Death of Marat</em> (1793), David presents
    us with a near sans, and as with Girodet, something of the Florentine Renaissance
    about it--low contrast, negligible serifs, inscriptional.  \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/466px-Death_of_Marat_by_David_6425.jpg]\r\n\r\nGilray,
    at the same time, made no classical allusions in the manner of his satirical prints,
    employed the constructed modern form of letter:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Gilray_3490.jpg]"
  created: '2009-01-11 19:40:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Transitional as a name clearly expresses an academic label afterthought where
    what went before and after both did not match the rules of categorization imposed
    by the academics. The folks who did the lettering or type design work were not
    looking to make a bridge between neat eras. They were just doing their own work
    in their own time. It may be fun for some to sort and label but this is always
    after the fact, not because of it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-01-11 20:01:26'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...presuming that I had labelled this thread \u2019Proto-transitional roman\u2019
    instead of \u2019Proto-neoclassical roman\u2019, might the discussion have differed?\"\r\n\r\n...and
    what if you called it pre-modern or pre-proto-modern, and left the 'transitional',
    'classic' and 'roman' out all together?\r\n\r\nAnd, Nick, if you kill Marat on
    this forum One More Time, just to make a point, I'm going to Disney World.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-01-12 16:49:19'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>I don\u2019t think so. Classical antiquity certainly provides the thematic
    models for neoclassicism, but neoclassicism produces distinctive forms. The gallery
    of images at the top of the painting and sculpture page to which you link provides
    a good illustration of this: the antique works are immediately distinguishable
    from the later ones. This isn\u2019t always the case when looking at works of
    renaissance classicism, which referenced antique models much more directly.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    agree that the neoclassical and antique works are readily distinguishable, but
    I'd argue that the same is true of renaissance classicism. In each case you have
    formal emulation of the antique, but in a style that can't help being of its own
    day. (Even in cases where fidelity to an older style is paramount - as in forgery
    or restoration - the passage of time often reveals how the newer work is of a
    piece with its contemporary style.) \r\n\r\nNapoleon's monuments were even more
    \"antique\" than those of the Renaissance popes.\r\n\r\n<em>but neoclassicism
    doesn\u2019t always imply a rejection of ornamentation, as e.g. W\xFCrth\u2019s
    wine coolers demonstrate.</em>\r\n\r\nThe text on that page argues that the ornamentation
    was a \"Viennese interjection\" into neoclassicism, not exemplary of neoclassicism
    itself. But your point that this hybrid aesthetic existed and your question about
    how letters might fit it remain.\r\n\r\n(The history of type-design labels is
    my current research project, but you're right that it is not what this excellent,
    informative thread is about.) \r\n"
  created: '2009-01-12 17:15:08'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "How would you classify these letters (from 1643)?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Louis_XIII_douzieme_d'ecu_3913.jpg]\r\n\r\n[[http://cngcoins.com/|source]]"
  created: '2009-01-12 17:27:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...same aesthetic concerns...</em>\r\n\r\nSuch as removing the trace
    of process.\r\nIn painting, meticulous finish with no evidence of brushwork.\r\nIn
    architecture, covering up brickwork with stucco.\r\nIn type, constructed letterforms
    banishing the influence of pen and brush."
  created: '2009-01-12 20:20:09'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>...but Shelley\u2019s influence on Baskerville isn\u2019t news.</em>\r\n\r\nIndeed
    not -- although it seems to be news to some --, but what interests me and sent
    me on the search that led to Seddon is how Shelley and his contemporaries arrived
    at the widespread mature roman style seen everywhere by the 1730s. Although Shelley's
    1709 sample was the earliest I had found, I couldn't be sure that he was primarily
    responsible for the development of the style, since it appears so widely thereafter.
    Now, having discovered Shelley's relationship with Seddon, and the latter's prototypical
    style, I am reasonably confident that Shelley's work was influential in propagating
    the style among the writing masters. I especially look forward to seeing images
    from the 1705 <em>Penman\u2019s Magazine.</em>"
  created: '2009-01-12 22:49:38'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "FWIW, there are some terrible quality reproductions of <em>The Ingenious
    Youth's Companion</em> of 1690 at Early English Books Online.\r\nhttp://eebo.chadwyck.com/search"
  created: '2010-02-25 16:34:35'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Thank you very much, Craig. I did some more research on John Seddon and his
    contemporary writing masters when I was in London in November. I'm considering
    making a presentation on this subject at TypeCon this year, although ideally I'd
    like to follow up some other loose ends first. There are a couple of other names
    that crop up in the late 17th Century, but only single copies of their writing
    exemplars are known to exist (in the British Library) and these are undated (because
    their owner, Samuel Pepys, didn't bother to keep the titlepages!). I don't yet
    know whether these might include an early roman and can't know, if they do, whether
    this would pre-date Seddon's. I doubt it, based on what I've found so far, but
    it is possible.
  created: '2010-02-25 16:47:45'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: John, do you happen to know what that last page of <em>Alphabets in All the
    Hands</em> that looks like some kind of calligraphic foreign script is?
  created: '2010-02-25 17:00:35'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I don't have a copy of that, I'm afraid. Do you have an image or a link?\r\n\r\nOne
    of the interesting things I have discovered is that the showings of non-Latin
    scripts reproduced at the end of Bickham's <em>Universal Penman,</em> and I'm
    guessing elsewhere, is copied directly from earlier engraved sources. They are
    found in Barbour's <em>Les Ecritures Financiere</em> of 1647, almost a full century
    before Bickham's publication."
  created: '2010-02-25 17:10:56'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I'm not equipped for a proper photograph, but this is roughly what it looks
    like:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Photo-22_6029.jpg]"
  created: '2010-02-25 17:17:27'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Ah, this is what is known as English Court hand (although in reality it is
    only one, late model of writing used in English court and financial writing).
    Yes, that's the Latin script. Think of it as the English equivalent of the ornamented
    Ottoman diwani style of Arabic script: a style that evolved to be difficult for
    the uninitiated to read. Most letters take multiple forms, and the relationship
    to the typical forms of the Latin majuscule and miniscule letters is frequently
    difficult to analyse.\r\n\r\nThe standard book on the subject is Hilary Jenkinson's
    <em>The Later Court Hands in England from the Fifteenth to the Seventeenth Century.</em>"
  created: '2010-02-25 17:49:40'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Thanks for the info. I'd suspected that it was some kind of Latin but distrusted
    my own suspicions.
  created: '2010-02-25 19:34:32'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "More bibliography on the topic of this thread:\r\nAnother great source from
    this era is Charles Snell's <em>The Art of Writing in Theory and Practice</em>
    (1712), which, among its scripty plates, has a Baskerville-like roman. \r\nThis
    citation and others appear in \"John Baskerville and the Writing Masters,\" an
    unsigned article in <em>The Monotype Recorder</em> 23 no. 201 (1924).\r\nThat
    article also reproduces a plate by Abraham Nicholas from 1722 which appears in
    <em>Penmanship in its Utmost Beauty and Extent</em> ed. by Bickham."
  created: '2010-02-25 19:47:49'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Shelley's influence on Baskerville came as news to me. What it implies to
    me is that at the time, an alternative letterform was seen as 'better' than Caslon
    or at least more natural or fashionable, and so John Baskerville was inspired
    by the spirit of the times rather than proposing something completely novel and
    original.\r\n\r\nBoth Garamond and the roman of Nicholas Jensen were revived by
    ATF before Monotype gave us their own revivals not only of those faces, but Bembo,
    their revival of the Aldine roman, and Plantin, and so many others.\r\n\r\nIs
    the fact that apparently Garamond, for example, was not revived much earlier someting
    that asks for an explanation, or is it a perfectly natural consequence of the
    technology available at the time? It could be that an attempt to revive Garamond
    wouldn't have been a reasonable thing to do until the pantograph came along, and
    so if ATF revived it very shortly after Morris F. Benton invented it, there is
    no real mystery. And, of course, as is well known, the high quality - in the sense
    of sheen and gloss, although his face had plenty of real quality as well - of
    Baskerville's face was ahead of the printing technology of the day, leading other
    printers to understandably feel that he might set quality standards that were
    not possible to meet at the time without inordinate effort."
  created: '2010-02-25 21:02:48'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Here's a relevant piece from that aforementioned <em>Monotype Recorder</em>
    article, which I'd guess was written by Morison:\r\n\r\n\u201CAbraham Nicholas\u2019
    plate (No. 53) in <em>Penmanship in its Utmost Beauty and Extent</em> is one of
    the most interesting in this series of pieces of writing collected from the writing
    books of contemporary masters by that most prolific and expert of copperplate
    engravers, the celebrated George Bickham, senior. The volume cited is his first
    collection, and not to be confused with his more complete folio, <em>The Universal
    Penman</em>, published in 1743. The plate mentioned was originally published in
    the year 1722, some fifteen years before Baskerville cut his first type. Of the
    writer Bickham says that he was a very \u201Cvaluable artist to whom I have many
    obligations, a judicious person who was a correct and bold performer, and in every
    other respect an accomplished gentleman.\"\r\n\u201CA glance at his alphabet (shown
    in our fig. 1) will discover to the reader a notable similarity with the general
    form of Baskerville\u2019s first roman and italic (shown in our figs. 3 and 4).
    This is a similarity, of course, only to be expected, since during the years 1730-5
    Baskerville flourished as sign-writer, tombstone-cutter, and writing-master. Thus
    he shared with his colleagues the same models, taught the same hands, and, if
    the truth must be told, had a similar conceit of himself.\""
  created: '2010-02-25 22:38:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Quadibloc: <em>Is the fact that apparently Garamond, for example, was not
    revived much earlier someting that asks for an explanation, or is it a perfectly
    natural consequence of the technology available at the time?</em>\r\n\r\nIt's
    a perfectly natural consequence of the correlation of typography with writing
    and other aspects of culture prior to the 19th Century. Why would you revive a
    late renaissance typeface when your modes of writing, music, sculture, painting,
    architecture and everything else is moving in a different direction? Revivalism
    begins in the 19th Century, in so many areas of culture that it can be seen as
    a movement in itself; by the 20th Century, it has become a free-for-all raid and
    reinterpretation of the past."
  created: '2010-02-26 04:05:08'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Pine's Horace is now available online, and so here is a sample of the text:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/horace_4094.jpg]"
  created: '2014-03-22 10:21:13'
date: '2009-01-03 17:39:29'
title: Proto-neoclassical roman

---
