---
author:
  name: marcosdopico
  picture: 112542
body: "Hi.\r\nI\u2019m looking for information about [[Mercator]], a sanserif typeface
  by [[Dick Dooijes]] and [[G. W. Ovink]] designed in [[1959]] at the [[Amsterdam
  Type Foundry]] .Its considered a version of [[Helvetica]]/[[Univers]], a rational
  holland response to the model of german/swiss modernity. I just found a reference
  in\"[[Dutch Type]]\"by [[Jan Middendorp]], but I suspect that no exists a digital
  version.\r\n\r\nDoes anyone have information about this typeface? images? typespecimen?\r\n\r\nthanks
  \xA1\xA1"
comments:
- author:
    name: Hubert
    picture: 115912
  body: "Dear latierrasemueve\r\n\r\nI am studying at the Type]Media course in Den
    Haag, where I am currently doing a revival of the Mercator.\r\nBecause the archives
    of Typefoundry Amsterdam (Lettergieterij 'Amsterdam' voorheen N. Tetterode, 1851-1988)
    are now kept at the Library of the University in Amsterdam (http://www.uba.uva.nl/special_collections/overview.cfm),
    I was lucky to have access to the original material let by Dick Dooijes. I attach
    some pictures of two of the first type specimens and the final sketch of the \"a\"\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Mercator_specimen_1958_4372.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/Mercator_specimen1_4097.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/Mercator_a_3992.jpg]"
  created: '2009-01-12 12:05:43'
- author:
    name: Hubert
    picture: 115912
  body: "\r\nIt is true that the font is known as a sort of \"Dutch Helvetica\".\r\nSupervised
    by S.H. De Roos, Dooijes had to make in 1929 the working drawings of Nobel, a
    revision of Berthold Grotesk to bring it more in line with Futura.\r\n\r\nDick
    Dooijes, wrote his autobiography titled \" Mijn leven met letters\" (\"My life
    with letters\", Amsterdam 1991) which is not yet translated in english."
  created: '2009-01-12 12:07:48'
- author:
    name: Hubert
    picture: 115912
  body: "One of the last type specimen of the Mercator was made in 1966 by Total Design,
    ran at that time by Wim Crouwel.\r\n\r\nI attach two picts of a type specimen
    from Typefoundry Amsterdam that display 7 cuts of the Mercator\r\n(I am not sure
    when that one was released, in the sixties i guess)\r\n\r\ncheers !\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Mercator_Tetterode_specimen_p76_5561.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/Mercator_Tetterode_specimen_p77_6390.jpg]"
  created: '2009-01-12 12:13:24'
- author:
    name: marcosdopico
    picture: 112542
  body: "Thank you Hubert. What a big surprise\xA1\xA1\r\nMy name is Marcos, I am
    a professor of graphic\r\ndesign in the University of Vigo in Spain, and I am
    working on my\r\ndoctoral thesis. I am researching the revival of neo-grotesque\r\ntypefaces
    in the last decade. I found several typefaces in the last\r\ndecade like Akkurat
    by Laurenz Brunner, FF Bau and Graphik by\r\nChristian Swchartz inspired by revivals
    of German typefaces in the\r\n19th century. In other cases the alternatives to
    Helvetica and Univers\r\nlike Recta by Aldo Novarese and Mercator by Dooijes created
    in the\r\nMid-Century, inspired several revivals as well as your Mercator.\r\nUnfortunatelly
    there is not much information available on the original\r\nMercator, and it surprised
    me a lot to find a digital version. So I was wondering if you can\r\nsend me information
    (images, texts, sketches, typespecimen\u2026) on the\r\nprocess that  has followed
    in the revival of Mercator. If you\r\nhelp me I'll always be gratefull to her.
    Of course I promise to\r\nmention your work in my research. Can you send me your
    email?\r\n\r\nI just found other revival of Mercator. The designer Daniella Spinat
    www.daniellaspinat.com creates Mercator Roman.\r\n\r\nFinally, I would like to
    know your opinion about the revivals in\r\ntypography. Why do you think a lot
    of typographers are re-designing\r\nold sanserif typefaces?\r\n\r\nThank you\xA1\xA1\xA1"
  created: '2009-01-16 09:38:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: " <em>Why do you think a lot of typographers </em>[sic]<em> are re-designing
    old sanserif typefaces?</em>\r\n\r\nFor the same reasons that we (type designers)
    are always re-hashing every clich\xE9 in the book.\r\nSpecifically, typographers
    continue to use them.\r\nThat provides the economic incentive.\r\nAlso, there
    is technological change, a constant in the graphics industry.\r\nAdapting older
    forms to new media presents creative challenges and opportunities.\r\nThat provides
    the aesthetic imperatives.\r\n\r\nWhile it's true that there have been many typefaces
    in the grotesque genre designed recently (a sans-centric era), I don't think this
    is historically significant. The grotesque genre has been constantly available
    since the 1830s, with old staples being refitted, and new additions. Recently
    the genres of geometric and humanist sans have also been well populated--more
    so, I would say, than the grotesque, where the old staples seem most entrenched.
    \r\n\r\nHave the type designers responsible for recent grotesques also reworked
    old serif types? I would think so, I know I have.\r\n\r\nIf you want to prove
    this is a significant phenomenon, you will need statistics to convince me, because
    otherwise, the field is so large that's it's very easy to pick and choose examples
    to corroborate one's subjective preconceptions about what's fashionable--which
    are always subject to recency. In other words, if you are interested in modernist
    design and the grotesque, you will see it everywhere.\r\n\r\nMy preconception
    is that genre specialists (like Ale Paul) are the minority in the type design
    business.\r\nIn the digital era, now that so many independent foundries are established,
    most type designers have \"their\" old-style serif face, their didone, their geometric
    sans, their grotesque, their script. Every foundry a department store, not a boutique!\r\n\r\nOf
    course, this varies by market, but in as much as the commissioned market in newspaper
    and magazine types requires all genres (but few scripts), so does the retail font
    market (but heavy on the scripts)."
  created: '2009-01-16 19:57:41'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Here is some more Mercator.\r\n\r\nhttp://flickr.com/photos/42972432@N00/431495932\r\n\r\nThis
    is a good thread, this typeface seems quite rare so I am pleased to see high quality
    images/work here.\r\n\r\nI think Nick is correct in saying that there has been
    a steady development of the grotesque, almost by the decade.\r\nI also agree with
    his idea that if you are interested in a specific genre, you become very attuned
    to it's presence which might alter your perception of it's popularity. I probably
    'sense' the same trend you are talking about, though I am wary that I am simply
    looking for evidence of it because that is what interests me - finding this thread
    for example. Maybe it is very hard to assert any kind of trend in a pluralistic
    environment.\r\n\r\nThat said, I am always pleased to see work in this genre,
    revivals and interpretations - I think it is important to distinguish. There probably
    is some room in this genre more so than humanist sans-serifs for example which
    most people (I assume) would agree have seen a lot of recent interest - maybe
    this does explain a small trend.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure that economics offers a complete
    explanation of said trend. A lot of revival work is motivated by academics! \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-16 21:20:11'
- author:
    name: Hubert
    picture: 115912
  body: "@ Marcos\r\nSwiss type designer and teacher Fran\xE7ois Rappo made a revival
    of Theinhardt's grotesque, but I am not sure the font is available yet.\r\n(Pictures
    of the original typeface in an older post : http://dev.typophile.com/node/17643)\r\n\r\nhere
    is an interesting overview made by Stephen Coles :\r\nhttp://fontfeed.com/archives/helvetica-and-alternatives-to-helvetica/\r\nanother
    one : ARS Region\r\nyou are totally right 1985, once you start looking for a specific
    thing, you see it everywhere"
  created: '2009-01-17 10:10:01'
- author:
    name: Hubert
    picture: 115912
  body: "And about reviving fonts, I will quote Wolfgang Weingart :\r\n(in Philip
    B. Meggs & Roy McKelvey, Revival of the Fittest, Digital Versions of Classic Typefaces)\r\n\r\n\"Four
    typefaces are enough to address every typographic problem.\r\nEvery digitalization
    of an old typeface is, for me, a fake.\""
  created: '2009-01-17 10:16:08'
- author:
    name: marcosdopico
    picture: 112542
  body: "FF Schulbuch by Just Van Rosum (1996) is a revival of AG Schoolbook y G\xFCnter
    Gerhard Lange.\r\nEffra by Jonas Shudel (Dalton Maag) is a revival of Caslon,
    the first sanserif (1816), included lowercases.\r\nAnother one: ARS Maquette by
    Agnus Shammal, National Grotesk by Kris Sowersby, Number two by Martha Stutteregger."
  created: '2009-01-17 22:48:01'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Also, as I'm sure you know, Executive (Optimo) and Galaxie Polaris (Village).\r\n\r\nAs
    I said, I am really interested to see work in this field. I think I might have
    missed the point of your study."
  created: '2009-01-21 21:59:05'
- author:
    name: aeshoukas
    picture: 115670
  body: "[[http://kenmeier.info|Ken Meier]] has also made a digitization of the bold
    cut. \r\nI had the pleasure of working with the metal version in developing the
    [[http://www.aes.info/?p=page&id=312|identity for the Gerrit Rietveld Academie]].
    The final version wasn't printed in letterpress, unfortunately - instead a digitization
    was made from the aforementioned specimen book from LA. Having scanned the entire
    thing, I uploaded it [[http://dl.getdropbox.com/u/793340/Mecator%20Specimen%20-%20Scaled.zip|here]].
    It is made up entirely of two-fold spreads, and I've yet to piece it all together
    - sorry!"
  created: '2009-05-12 12:14:17'
- author:
    name: kaibernau
  body: "Laurenz Brunner (whose previous Akkurat is like a modern reimagining of Mercator
    anyway) has recently made a very nice proper Mercator revival, too; in the book
    it was used it was credited as <em>Mercator, Dick Dooijes, Lettergieterij Amsterdam,
    1959 / Laurenz Brunner, Lineto.com, 2008</em> or somesuch. It is not available
    from the Lineto.com website, though, potentially because Linotype has once acquired
    the rights of the Lettergieterij Amsterdam from the Tetterode company.\r\n\r\nWith
    colleagues I also took a stab at it once. We made a modern Grotesk that shares
    some of the nice characteristics of Mercator.During that process I've come to
    see that Mercator <em>isn't actually that good a typeface</em>, and its many flaws
    get in the way of the text. All \"real\" revivals look a bit amateurish in my
    opinion, and that's because Mercator itself is a bit amateurish. And thoroughly
    adorable.\r\n\r\n--K"
  created: '2009-05-14 09:40:02'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: Which book is that Kai? Thanks in advance.
  created: '2009-05-20 18:32:24'
- author:
    name: kaibernau
  body: "Sorry, I can't remember exactly what book it was. Some sort of report of
    activities of an Amsterdam-based association, or possibly something from the municipal
    government or city hall? Quite heavy, couple hundered pages, red cover, tabs on
    two or all three sides.\r\n\r\nHope that helps\r\n\u2014K\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-27 08:41:14'
- author:
    name: Studio Laurenz Brunner
  body: "Yes, it's correct \u2013 I have a digital version of Mercator. I discovered
    the typeface when I first moved to Amsterdam in 2004, in the letter-press workshop
    of the Gerrit Rietveld Academy. The designer Dick Dooijes, in fact was a former
    director of the Rietveld Academy and is responsible for the Lettering on the facade
    of the iconic building. \r\n\r\nThe typeface Akkurat was already completed when
    I first encountered Mercator but I must admit it I was surprised myself to see
    that it shares some attributes. I've digitised Mercator during my time at the
    Rietveld and have used it since for the publication \"Adviezen 2009 \u2013 2012\"
    by the Amsterdamse Kunstraad and occasionally for Rietveld related communication.
    (See for example www.rietveldforrietveld.org). Alex Shoukas, a former student
    of mine, has done a great job with his design for the Rietveld school identity
    and has used the typeface in a sensible way (along with an clever colour-scheme,
    sampling Gerrit Rietveld's interior colour palette). Big up's again Alex!\r\n\r\nI've
    always believed that the typeface should somehow remain close to the academy and
    it's source, which is why I've hesitated to publish the font, but we're currently
    considering different options for Lineto.com.\r\n\r\nDrop me a line if anymore
    questions,\r\nLaurenz Brunner"
  created: '2009-06-23 14:30:36'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "I just wrote an article about Mercator and placed some 16 p size Mercator
    normal in my online magazine:\r\nhttp://www.bleisetzer.de/tagebuch/mercator-lettergieterij-amsterdam.html\r\n\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n_______________________________________________\r\n\u201EIch
    bin ein Preu\xDFe, kennt Ihr meine Farben...\u201C"
  created: '2009-11-06 14:28:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Marcos, I assume you've looked at Unica as well?\r\nTo me it's the best of
    the bunch.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-06 14:47:29'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "I found a 24 page specimen refering the Mercator:\r\nhttp://www.bleisetzer.de/cms/front_content.php?idcat=69&rubrik=&unterrubrik=&maxday_in=20091103&article_id=2101\r\n\r\nIt
    shows Mercator:\r\nnormal, fett, kursiv, kursiv fett, kursiv schmalfett, mager,
    schmalmager\r\n\r\nRegular, bold, italic, bold italic, condensed bold italic,
    light, condensed regular.\r\n\r\nMercator was Netherland's answer to the new and
    modern Grotesk in West Europe between 1957 and 1965, do you think, its correct?
    \r\n\r\nBefore 1957 there was Akzidenz-Grotesk - okay, and Futura, but this was
    was an old-fashioned Grotesk. 1957 Bauersche started with Folio-Grotesk. 1958
    Mercator came up. But after Helvetica was established in the market after 1961-1963,
    the figt was over. \r\n\r\nDo you agree?\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n_______________________________________________\r\n\u201EIch
    bin ein Preu\xDFe, kennt Ihr meine Farben...\u201C"
  created: '2009-11-06 18:32:52'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: "Unica is nice, of which I have so far reworked a lowercase. I have always
    liked Mercator and Forma (1968) which is a very rare beast indeed.\r\n\r\nMy desire
    to work on a variant of an original font is that I am unsatisfied with the original.
    If I like a font, I would expect the original design to be close to what I would
    consider correct, but can never quite be there 100 percent. There is always something
    that bugs me or that doesn't sit quite right. And once you start working on a
    design and it comes under more scrutiny, the process itself will throw up more
    things to try and problems to be solved.\r\n\r\nIt seems to me that many of the
    classic grotesks talked about here have a broad usage capability so having a specific
    purpose like the identity for the Gerrit Rietveld Academy seems a very valid reason
    to re-look at some of these masters and hone them.\r\n\r\n\r\n_________________________________\r\nMichael
    Hernan"
  created: '2009-11-07 16:52:06'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I thought I would revive this thread to add another type specimen of Mercator.
    Just as the version Charles Maz\xE9 posted earlier, its also designed by Wim Crouwel
    at Total Design, somewhere between 1964 and 1968. It's quit extensive, with all
    weights and cuts shown on different sizes on fold-out pages and on a variety of
    paper types.\r\n\r\nI have made some photos of the specimen, and put them in [[http://www.flickr.com/photos/11494488@N05/sets/72157623680679221/|a
    set on my flickr page.]]"
  created: '2010-04-08 18:16:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "That's a marvellous specimen.\r\nMmmm, Strathmore Artlaid!"
  created: '2010-04-08 18:35:00'
- author:
    name: thijs
  body: "This morning at my son\u2019s school I came across a nice example of Mercator
    in use; a 1965 children\u2019s book by Dick Bruna.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mercator1_3452.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mercator2_5849.jpg]"
  created: '2010-07-07 20:20:20'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: Amazing illustrations. Strange that they used Mercator (top) and Akzidenz
    (bottom) on the cover.
  created: '2010-07-08 19:51:10'
- author:
    name: Hubert
    picture: 115912
  body: Very nice indeed
  created: '2010-08-17 15:01:57'
- author:
    name: Darkgreenblue
    picture: 118661
  body: "Of all the classic grotesques and neo-grotesques shown in Jaspert/Berry/Johnson's
    Encyclopaedia and Rookledge's Typefinder, I think Mercator is my favorite.  The
    forms of the C, R and S are much more attractive than in either Helvetica or Univers,
    in my opinion, as are the numerals, and I like the proportions and spacing.  As
    the icing on the cake, Mercator has a wonderful Q design unlike that of any other
    typeface I have seen.  I find it very simple and beautiful, and am surprised nobody
    has copied this Q idea in any newer sans (though Puyfoulhoux's Q in Alinea Sans
    is similar).  The Univers Q always looks like a mistake to me, and most sans Q's
    are boring, but Mercator's is lovely.\r\n\r\nIs a revived offering, as mentioned
    by folks above, likely to make commercial headway anytime soon?  People keep trying
    to create alternatives to Helvetica, to solve its quirky problems and to coax
    users away from its domination; it seems to me that a great choice might be right
    there in the books, that other late-50's design, Mercator.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/QRS_4053.JPG]"
  created: '2011-12-03 18:53:22'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "I can get with you on the 'Q' and 'R', but I don't see how that 'S' is more
    attractive than Helvetica\u2019s. Maybe you're looking at one of Helv\u2019s more
    compromised digital weights. Have a look at <a href=\"http://fontbureau.com/nhg\">Neue
    Haas Grotesk</a>."
  created: '2012-04-02 19:09:00'
- author:
    name: Counterform
    picture: 123368
  body: "Atlas Grotesk, a Mercator revival by Kai Bernau, Susana Carvalho and Christian
    Schwartz. The capital S is narrower than the original one, but the Q and R are
    really similar.\r\n\r\nhttp://commercialtype.com/typefaces/atlas/grotesk"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Darkgreenblue
      picture: 118661
    body: "Thank you -- Atlas is interesting, and key letters such as the C and Q
      are close, but not quite the same.  I still find the original Mercator more
      attractive.  I just love love love that Mercator Q -- it's like driving a track
      around and around, and then at some point you make a smooth, elegant exit.\r\n\r\nTo
      Stephen's comment above, I must say I do like NHG better in bold (and the bolder
      Helvetica weights also), but lighter weights are more disappointing.  The regular
      S is beaten by Mercator's in my opinion, and so is the regular C, which I always
      thought ugly in Helvetica (barely less so in NHG).\r\n"
    created: '2012-07-13 05:57:16'
  created: '2012-07-10 10:33:45'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "This is a very interesting discussion, with some very fine insights\u2014mostly
    based on some very fine distinctions between and among some very thoughtful type
    designs. But, who is right and who is wrong about those fine distinctions boils
    down to which oenophile is right about which fruit precisely describes the top
    note in a fine wine. It all boils down to a matter of opinion. So what: pay attention
    and you'll learn something.\r\n\r\nHowever, one aspect of the discussion does
    not make sense. If you're looking for something truly unique\u2014which is kinda
    OTT, since \u201Cunique\u201D is like \u201Cpregnant\" in its all-or-nothingness\u2014it
    will be so for only so long. Which is to say, it will be unique up the time that
    until other folks looking for something unique learn from your discovery. In which
    case, more and more people who are convinced that \u201Cunique\u201D means buying
    all the same stuff the cool people buy\u2014in other words, Apple\u2019s whoel
    marketing strategy\u2014the net result is, what was once unique is no longer so,
    and you have to start out on your Grail quest all over again. Still: it's the
    journey, not the destination, right? Unless you actually have to be somewhere
    at a specific time on a specific date. THEN, it's the destination.\r\n\r\nIf,
    perchance, you have a hard time making sense out of what I just said, join the
    club."
  created: '2012-07-13 19:52:24'
date: '2009-01-08 16:24:22'
node_type: forum
title: Mercator by Dick Dooijes

---
