---
author:
  name: blank
body: "My Ultralight font started showing up in Indesign as Regular today when I generated
  a new version, and I don\u2019t know why. This is driving me crazy, but from everything
  I\u2019ve read it seems like it should show up as Ultralight. It shows up just fine
  in TextEdit.\r\n\r\nHere\u2019s the font info and OT info in FLAB (h-scrolling keeps
  it readable)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/finfo_5838.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/otinfo_3785.jpg]\r\n\r\nAnd
  here\u2019s what I get in Indesign and other Adobe apps.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/indesign_5728.jpg]"
comments:
- author:
    name: Stephen Rapp
    picture: 111901
  body: "Look in the typowiki for links showing detailed instructions. I just did
    that for a set that had Regular, Bold and engraved and only regular and engraved
    would show up. I got them working. \r\n\r\nAlso\u2026 I think besides the fact
    that you didn't fill all the info out, you have the style name (top pic) above
    listed as regular."
  created: '2009-01-09 04:36:58'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Hi James,\r\nI had to struggle through this some time ago: you should review
    the family naming procedures for OT in the manual or elsewhere.\r\nIf I remember
    correctly, you form four-member-only subfamilies for PC, so the Family name (Whateley
    Light) should be repeated in Menu Name, Fond Name should also be Whateley Ultralight,
    Mac name should be Whateley Ultralight, no checks in italic and bold checkboxes.
    Then you have to go to Additional OT names and autogenerate them. That's what's
    missing in your approach I think.\r\nprgr"
  created: '2009-01-09 05:00:59'
- author:
    name: RachelR
  body: "I think like everyone else I had a nightmare naming my fonts and getting
    them to work across applications and platforms. I think I finally got to working
    with the help of Karsten Luecke's PDF on font naming.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.kltf.de/downloads/FontNaming-kltf.pdf\"
    target=\"_blank\">FontNaming-kltf.pdf</a>\r\n\r\nI wrote this script to make the
    naming easier for myself. It works for Thin, Light, Regular, Medium, Bold, Thin
    It, Light It, It, Medium It, Bold It.\r\n\r\nYou might be able to use this for
    your own needs.\r\n\r\n<code>\r\nfrom robofab.world import CurrentFont\r\nfrom
    robofab.interface.all.dialogs import AskString\r\nf = CurrentFont()\r\n#\r\nfontName
    = AskString('Font Name') \r\nWeight = AskString('Weight')\r\n#\r\ndef naming(
    short, weight, weight2 ):\r\n\tf.info.familyName = fontName+\" \"+short\r\n\tf.info.widthName
    = \"Normal\"\r\n\tf.info.styleName = weight\r\n\tf.info.fontName = fontName.replace('
    ', '')+\"-\"+weight2.replace(' ', '')\r\n\tf.info.fullName = fontName+\" \"+weight2\r\n\tf.info.menuName
    = fontName+\" \"+short\r\n\tf.info.fondName = fontName.replace(' ', '')+\" \"+weight2.replace('
    ', '')\r\n\tf.info.otFamilyName = fontName\r\n\tf.info.otStyleName = weight2\r\n#\r\n#\t\r\nif
    Weight == \"Thin\":\r\n\tnaming(\"Th\", \"Regular\", \"Thin\")\r\n\tf.info.weightName
    = \"Thin\"\r\n\tf.info.weightValue = 250\r\n\tprint f.info.fullName+\" \"+\"Named\"\r\nelif
    Weight == \"Light\":\r\n\tnaming(\"Lt\", \"Regular\", \"Light\")\r\n\tf.info.weightName
    = \"Light\"\r\n\tf.info.weightValue = 300\r\n\tprint f.info.fullName+\" \"+\"Named\"\r\nelif
    Weight == \"Regular\":\r\n\tnaming(\"Rg\", \"Regular\", \"Regular\")\r\n\tf.info.weightName
    = \"Regular\"\r\n\tf.info.weightValue = 400\r\n\tprint f.info.fullName+\" \"+\"Named\"\r\nelif
    Weight == \"Medium\":\r\n\tnaming(\"Lt\", \"Bold\", \"Medium\")\r\n\tf.info.weightName
    = \"Medium\"\r\n\tf.info.weightValue = 500\r\n\tprint f.info.fullName+\" \"+\"Named\"\r\nelif
    Weight == \"Bold\":\r\n\tnaming(\"Rg\", \"Bold\" ,\"Bold\")\r\n\tf.info.weightName
    = \"Bold\"\r\n\tf.info.weightValue = 700\r\n\tprint f.info.fullName+\" \"+\"Named\"\r\nelif
    Weight == \"Thin Italic\":\r\n\tnaming(\"Th\", \"Italic\", \"Thin Italic\")\r\n\tf.info.weightName
    = \"Thin\"\r\n\tf.info.weightValue = 250\t\r\n\tprint f.info.fullName+\" \"+\"Named\"\r\nelif
    Weight == \"Light Italic\":\r\n\tnaming(\"Lt\", \"Italic\", \"Light Italic\")\r\n\tf.info.weightName
    = \"Light\"\r\n\tf.info.weightValue = 300\t\r\n\tprint f.info.fullName+\" \"+\"Named\"\r\nelif
    Weight == \"Italic\":\r\n\tnaming(\"Rg\", \"Italic\", \"Italic\")\r\n\tf.info.weightName
    = \"Regular\"\r\n\tf.info.weightValue = 400\r\n\tprint f.info.fullName+\" \"+\"Named\"\r\nelif
    Weight == \"Medium Italic\":\r\n\tnaming(\"Lt\", \"Bold Italic\", \"Medium Italic\")\r\n\tf.info.weightName
    = \"Medium\"\r\n\tf.info.weightValue = 500\r\n\tprint f.info.fullName+\" \"+\"Named\"\r\nelif
    Weight == \"Bold Italic\":\r\n\tnaming(\"Rg\", \"Bold Italic\", \"Bold Italic\")\t\r\n\tf.info.weightName
    = \"Bold\"\r\n\tf.info.weightValue = 700\r\n\tprint f.info.fullName+\" \"+\"Named\"\r\nelse:\r\n\tprint
    \"Ooops that's not a weight\"\t\r\n\tprint fontName+\" \"+\"is not named\"\r\n#\r\nf.update()\r\n</code>\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-09 08:52:13'
- author:
    name: Artur Schmal
    picture: 110750
  body: "You could try enabling 'Use OpenType names as menunames on Mac' in FL's preferences.\r\nDoes
    that help?\r\n\r\nBest,\r\nArtur"
  created: '2009-01-09 09:33:33'
- author:
    name: Toby
    picture: 109971
  body: "You haven\xB4t filled in the Menu and FOND name, that\xB4s why it doesn\xB4t
    work..."
  created: '2009-01-09 11:17:47'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "James, \r\n\r\nwhat does \"OT Style Name\" say if you generate the font and
    open that generated font in FLS? \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2009-01-09 12:36:02'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Have you cleaned font caches?\r\nPossibly unrelated to your InDesign problem
    but: This is your UltraLight style as indicated in OT Family Name, PS Font Name
    and Full Name. However, Family Name is \"Whateley Light\" and Style Name is \"Regular\"
    and Font is italic/Font is bold are unchecked -- so on this level it's effectively
    \"Whateley Light\" rather than \"Whateley UltraLight\". Better rename Family Name
    to \"Whateley UltraLight\". Possibly also fill in Mac Name, same content as Full
    Name.\r\n\r\nToby -- <cite>You haven't filled in the Menu and FOND name, that's
    why it doesn't work...</cite>\r\n\r\nThese names will not go into OT font's name
    table anyway, so no need to bother.\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2009-01-09 13:30:58'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: James, is it part of a bigger family or do you just want this one to work?
  created: '2009-01-09 15:03:39'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Im not a Fontnaming-connaisseur, but I think you also have to set a few things
    in the 'Additional Opentype Names' section. That section does have something to
    do with Family and Subfamily names, so I think it could affect your problem. If
    I recall correctly it was:\r\n\r\nAdditional Opentype Names -> Press the left
    button (with the arrow and FI, Import Names) -> it then automatically fills in
    the fields (if you have filled in the Names sections) -> Check if the first line
    (1 1 0 0) shows the family name (i.e. Whateley), and then you need to change the
    second line (2 1 0 0, showing only weight now probably) to whatever you have for
    Full Name. I.e. Whateley-UltraLight. So it becomes 2 1 0 0 Whateley-UltraLight.
    \r\nBut make sure you have your normal Naming right (see Karsten's post above),
    otherwise te data that is automatically generated when you press the import button
    is also wrong.\r\n\r\nThis comes from that [[http://groups.msn.com/fontlab/tipsandtricks.msnw?action=get_message&mview=0&ID_Message=2843|MSN
    Groups post]] about Naming posted by Adam Twardoch. If the Additional Opentype
    Names alone doesn't help, start from step 1 from that MSN Group tutorial."
  created: '2009-01-09 17:23:10'
- author:
    name: malcolm
    picture: 109919
  body: If you make a change to a font name be sure to delete the font caches before
    you re-test the font.
  created: '2009-01-09 18:13:27'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I have read Karsten and Adam\u2019s font naming guides and this font was
    done using Karsten\u2019s examples. And I have blasted the font caches repeatedly.\r\n\r\n<cite>You
    could try enabling \u2019Use OpenType names as menunames on Mac\u2019 in FL\u2019s
    preferences.</cite>\r\n\r\nAlready done.\r\n\r\n<cite>what does \u201COT Style
    Name\u201D say if you generate the font and open that generated font in FLS?</cite>\r\n\r\nUltraLight.
    That\u2019s why I don\u2019t understand seeing \"Regular\" in there.\r\n\r\n<cite>James,
    is it part of a bigger family or do you just want this one to work?</cite>\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s
    part of a family. And this has worked before. "
  created: '2009-01-09 23:15:59'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>That\u2019s why I don\u2019t understand seeing \u201CRegular\u201D
    in there.</em>\r\n\r\nWell, I see 'Regular' as the Style Name in your first screenshot?\r\n\r\nAlso
    make sure to check the Additional OT Names section I mentioned earlier, I had
    a few times that a wrong style name was still hidden in there (or missing where
    it <em>should</em> be)."
  created: '2009-01-10 00:37:17'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Well, I see \u2019Regular\u2019 as the Style Name in your first screenshot?</cite>\r\n\r\nSo
    that isn\u2019t required to be Regular/Bold/Italic/Bold Italic? I thought putting
    other stuff in there breaks things. And even if I do change it to Ultralight Fontlab
    changes that to regular when I generate the font.\r\n\r\nAnd Additional Opentype
    Names is empty."
  created: '2009-01-10 00:42:39'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I don't know if it's required, as I said, I'm not really an export on the
    Naming conventions. ;)\r\n\r\nHowever, Additional Opentype Names shouldn't be
    empty; use [[http://groups.msn.com/fontlab/tipsandtricks.msnw?action=get_message&mview=0&ID_Message=2843|Adam
    Twardoch's how-to on that MSN Group]]. If it's currently empty, I suspect that's
    where the problem is at, since it contains data on family naming.  Check the how-to
    from step 9 of the 'OpenType (PostScript- or TrueType-based)' part, or just start
    from the beginning. :)"
  created: '2009-01-10 02:13:13'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Quincunx -- <cite>If I recall correctly it was:</cite>\r\n\r\nThese manual
    steps were required only in FL4. In FLS5 there are two export preferences, (Arthur
    said this above:) \"Use the OpenType names be used as menu names on the Macintosh\"
    and \"Use PostScript FontName as FullName on Windows\". The second must be activated,
    the first one should be."
  created: '2009-01-10 02:25:11'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "James, I think you should auto-generate \"Additional Opentype Names\", click
    the diamond. See my previous post ...\r\n\r\nEdit: Too late, Quincrux is right,
    I think\r\nprgr"
  created: '2009-01-10 05:02:54'
- author:
    name: Artur Schmal
    picture: 110750
  body: "It should also work without filling out the Additional OpenType Names. So
    the problem must be somewhere else.\r\n\r\nHave you selected this option from
    the pulldown menu?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Afbeelding2_6440.png]"
  created: '2009-01-10 08:08:58'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I'm not immediately seeing the cause of this problem here, but I can make
    a few comments and a suggestion for further actions.\r\n\r\nThe \"Additional OpenType
    Names\" field is needed if the OpenType family (nameID 16) or subfamily (nameID
    17) are to be different than the Windows family (nameID 1) and subfamily (nameID
    2). They are indeed going to be different in this case, so they are needed.\r\n\r\nThe
    Windows family is what FontLab calls \"Family Name\" on the first screen. That
    should be set to Whately UltraLight, not Whately Light. However, this shouldn't
    cause the problem you're seeing, I don't think.\r\n\r\nWhatever family members
    you are working with, you should put them in a folder together and run the Adobe
    \"CompareFamily\" tool on them to see if it pops out any interesting warnings
    about naming issues either on individual fonts or across the family. If you don't
    have the AFDKO installed, I'd be willing to do that for you, but I'd need to have
    the fonts.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-01-10 09:09:54'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "James,\r\n\r\nThese settings work...[img:sites/default/files/old-images/WUL1_4374.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/WUL2_4725.jpg]"
  created: '2009-01-10 15:41:06'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: And if this still doesn't work,  perhaps its a font cache problem, or you
    might have a conflicting name in the TrueType Unique ID Field of the font header.
  created: '2009-01-10 15:58:48'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Those screenshots don't show OpenType Specific Names? Thomas said they are
    also needed. Personally I always fill those out too.
  created: '2009-01-10 23:23:32'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Those were the names used and everything worked fine. Nothing else is needed.
    My second screen shot shows OpenType Specific Names so I don't know what you are
    referring to.\r\n\r\nWhy not try it for yourself?"
  created: '2009-01-11 00:17:42'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Sorry, I meant Additional OpenType Names. :)
  created: '2009-01-11 16:32:12'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: No need to fill in Non-English or special font names:[name] table. I think
    that is what you mean by Additional OpenType names.
  created: '2009-01-11 19:53:34'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "No, it's a seperate section under 'Names and Copyright' (below OpenType-specific
    Names). But if it works without it, I guess it's fine. But Thomas Phinney posted
    earlier that they might be needed in some cases.\r\n\r\nI always fill them in,
    it's only a few seconds work."
  created: '2009-01-11 21:07:47'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: I believe se are talking about the same thing, and if everything else is filled
    out properly there is no reason to fill this in.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/NENames_3684.jpg]
  created: '2009-01-11 21:37:40'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Thanks for the help, all. Karsten checked out the files and found that the
    problem was in other members of the family, which was confusing Indesign. \r\n\r\nIn
    the future I think that I\u2019ll assign different family names to each weight
    and version of my fonts so that I don\u2019t make a mess out of things when testing
    iterations of my designs. "
  created: '2009-01-11 21:57:38'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "At the end you would expect something like this in the Naming Table:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Naming_table_5754.gif]\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\nAnd
    in the CFF Name INDEX something like this:\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CFF_Name_INDEX_3830.gif]\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\nThese
    are screen dumps of <strong>DTL OTMaster</strong> (OTM), a sophisticated application
    with a graphical user interface for opening, reviewing, editing and saving tables
    and glyphs of fonts with a snft file structure, as there are CFF and TTF flavoured
    OpenType fonts, TrueType fonts and TrueType Collection fonts. OTM is developed
    by URW++ and the Dutch Type Library and will be released for Mac OS X, Windows
    and Linux shortly.\r\n\r\nBy the way, the use of the Windows Full name string
    / PostScript FontName for the Compatible Full entry here, is a suggestion by Karsten
    Luecke in the <em>OTM manual</em>, of which he is the author.\r\n\r\nThe way the
    entries for the Name Table and CFF Name INDEX are displayed in the dialogs, further
    interpreted and stored by font editors, differs. In DTL FontMaster the naming
    information is stored in a text file (UFM), separately from the glyph data. The
    most common Name ID entries are supported by the UFM dialogs, but all entries
    can be added directly to the UFM file, like this:\r\n\r\nTTName 0 1 0 0 \"Copyright
    Dutch Type Library, 1993-2009. All rights reserved.\"; #Macintosh\r\nTTName 0
    3 1 0x409 \"Copyright Dutch Type Library, 1993-2009. All rights reserved.\"; #Windows\r\nTTName
    1 1 0 0 \"DTL Nobel TOT\"; #Macintosh\r\nTTName 1 3 1 0x409 \"DTL Nobel TOT Light\";
    #Windows\r\nTTName 2 1 0 0 \"Light\"; #Macintosh\r\nTTName 2 3 1 0x409 \"Regular\";
    #Windows\r\nTTName 7 1 0 0 \"DTL Nobel is a trademark of the Dutch Type Library\";
    #Macintosh\r\nTTName 7 3 1 0x409 \"DTL Nobel is a trademark of the Dutch Type
    Library\"; #Windows\r\nTTName 8 1 0 0 \"Dutch Type Library\"; #Macintosh\r\nTTName
    8 3 1 0x409 \"Dutch Type Library\"; #Windows\r\nTTName 9 1 0 0 \"Sjoerd H. de
    Roos, Andrea Fuchs, Fred Smeijers\"; #Macintosh\r\nTTName 9 3 1 0x409 \"Sjoerd
    H. de Roos, Andrea Fuchs, Fred Smeijers\"; #Windows\r\nTTName 11 1 0 0 \"http://www.dutchtypelibrary.com\";
    #Macintosh\r\nTTName 11 3 1 0x409 \"http://www.dutchtypelibrary.com\"; #Windows\r\nTTName
    13 1 0 0 \"By downloading, unpacking and/or installing DTL Font Software you acknowledge
    that you have read the DTL End User License Agreement, understand it and that
    together with the related invoice it is the complete and exclusive statement of
    your agreement with the Dutch Type Library concerning this purchase of DTL Font
    Software and that your obligations under this agreement shall inure to the benefit
    of Dutch Type Library licensors whose rights are licensed under this agreement.
    No variation of the terms of this agreement will be enforceable against the Dutch
    Type Library unless the Dutch Type Library gives it expressed consent in writing
    signed by an officer of the Dutch Type Library. By installing the software you
    accept your own liability to comply with all terms and conditions of the license.
    If you do not agree completely with the license, do not download, unpack and/or
    install DTL Font Software.\"; #Macintosh\r\nTTName 13 3 1 0x409 \"By downloading,
    unpacking and/or installing DTL Font Software you acknowledge that you have read
    the DTL End User License Agreement, understand it and that together with the related
    invoice it is the complete and exclusive statement of your agreement with the
    Dutch Type Library concerning this purchase of DTL Font Software and that your
    obligations under this agreement shall inure to the benefit of Dutch Type Library
    licensors whose rights are licensed under this agreement. No variation of the
    terms of this agreement will be enforceable against the Dutch Type Library unless
    the Dutch Type Library gives it expressed consent in writing signed by an officer
    of the Dutch Type Library. By installing the software you accept your own liability
    to comply with all terms and conditions of the license. If you do not agree completely
    with the license, do not download, unpack and/or install DTL Font Software.\";
    #Windows\r\nTTName 14 1 0 0 \"http://www.dutchtypelibrary.nl/PDF/Licenses/DTL_FS_License.pdf\";
    #Macintosh\r\nTTName 14 3 1 0x409 \"http://www.dutchtypelibrary.nl/PDF/Licenses/DTL_FS_License.pdf\";
    #Windows\r\nTTName 16 3 1 0x409 \"DTL Nobel TOT\"; #Windows\r\nTTName 17 3 1 0x409
    \"Light\"; #Windows\r\nTTName 18 1 0 0 \"DTL Nobel TOT Light\"; #Macintosh\r\nTTName
    19 1 0 0 \"The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog\"; #Macintosh\r\nTTName
    19 3 1 0x409 \"The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog\"; #Windows\r\n\r\nThese
    entries supersede any related name strings in the rest of the UFM file. The UFM
    files are connected by file names to the glyph data and can be freely altered
    and copied and connected to other glyph databases. This way renaming and using
    the name table entries for other font files is fairly simple. More information
    on this subject can be found <a href=\"http://www.dutchtypelibrary.nl/PDF/ATypI08/Name_table_entries.pdf\">here</a>."
  created: '2009-01-12 09:43:37'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "The suggestions from James (terminaldesign) seem sound to me. For the relevant
    name IDs, they should produce the values shown in Frank Blokland's posting. (I
    didn't look at all IDs, just the ones in relevant to the problem area, specifically:
    1, 2, 4, 6, 16, 17 and 18.)\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-01-13 02:39:45'
date: '2009-01-09 02:19:39'
node_type: forum
title: Font naming trouble

---
