---
author:
  name: atw
  picture: 112572
body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/woodcut_lockups_clr4_selects_spread_4515.png]\r\n\r\nLogo
  for a small artist management firm located in Colorado. They specialize in managing
  singer/songwriter musicians. \r\n\r\nWhat do you think? Anything you would change?\r\n\r\nThank
  you!\r\n- A"
comments:
- author:
    name: Justin_Ch
  body: "I'm not looking at a distant horizon. I feel that I am up to my neck in murky
    water and the sawn end of a floating log is just a few inches from my eyes.\r\n\r\nI'd
    leave the top half of the rectangle blank. "
  created: '2009-01-12 20:42:53'
- author:
    name: atw
    picture: 112572
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/woodcut_lockups_clr4_selects_spread_B_5613.png][img:sites/default/files/old-images/woodcut_lockups_clr4_selects_spread_C_4892.png]\r\n\r\nha
    thx for the feedback. Couple of alt versions.\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-12 20:55:19'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "\"Maybe by hiding behind this 2x4 I can avoid Spiderman's grasp.\"\r\n\r\nI
    agree about trying a blank sky. Maybe lowering the horizon, and/or widening the
    \"aspect ratio\" of the box? The shading (getting dark left-to-right) does not
    make the \"ground\" recede."
  created: '2009-01-12 20:57:52'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "I agree, get rid of those white lines and the sun you do not need them.  I
    like the color the type face. Try raising the box because the water is dead in
    the middle.  Have ever heard of the rule of thirds?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-12 21:05:15'
- author:
    name: matthew cogswell
  body: 'I agree with all the above.  You could also simplify it more, since the "water"
    is coming across more as "blue wood grain" and go with a bit of a fade from the
    horizon forward.   Also, I''m not sure the condensed font is working for you.  And
    lastly, does it have to be in a rectangle?  Historically, horizons have been viewed
    through spyglasses, creating a circular viewing field...  and this would play
    off of your newly circular "o"s  if you went with, I dunno... Gotham?   *(you
    could play with kerning, bringing it looser towards the edges giving a feel of
    "converging towards center" if it was put back in the water)    Play with it. '
  created: '2009-01-12 21:44:57'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "mmmmm horizon cigarettes.\r\n\r\njust curious - why hand drawn spider web?\r\n\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic Design Melbourne</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.showusyourshorts.com.au\">Short
    Film Festival</a>"
  created: '2009-01-12 21:50:40'
- author:
    name: atw
    picture: 112572
  body: "thx for feedback, all.\r\n\r\ninitial idea was based off a b/w illustration
    of wood grain, which I redrew w/ earth tones. it was very detailed, so we cut
    back number of lines, which led to the illustration we've got here. then we switched
    to a blue palette. the whole time, its resembled horizon w/ sun, and now its losing
    the wood grain origin and becoming nicely simplified.\r\n\r\nthe type is gotham
    condensed.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/newhorizons1_6327.png]"
  created: '2009-01-12 22:09:36'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Be sure to consider how the logo will work when reduced to one color (e.g.
    photocopied or faxed).
  created: '2009-01-12 22:27:35'
- author:
    name: atw
    picture: 112572
  body: completely - that the logic behind having the lines to break up the colors
  created: '2009-01-12 22:30:29'
- author:
    name: natalie_F
  body: "Those lines may fill in though after being fax or reduced to a smaller size.
    If this logo is going on business cards I doubt the lines will be visible at all.
    You may want to consider the non-line version but up the contrast of the blues
    a bit more so the shapes stand out.\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-12 22:35:22'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "I'm not sure if a vast body of water works well as a concept. Maybe it's
    just me, but the first association is drowning. I do like 1A version though. \r\n\r\nHave
    you considered turning this into a hill-like landscape instead ? Simply make an
    elevation map, use your existing approach to paint the elevation bands and then
    make a perspective 3D projection with flat horizon\r\n\r\nHmmm .. not sure how
    clear the explanation is, but basically start with something like <strong>[[http://marion.sanap.org.za/MapPrinceEdward3dsmall.jpg|this]]</strong>,
    replace color gradients in each individual band with a solid color and then rotate
    the whole thing to fill in the view and so that no peak sticks out above the horizon.\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-12 23:04:22'
- author:
    name: Artful As
    picture: 116674
  body: What would it look like if you change the orders of your color "waves" so
    they don't get progressively lighter? That would help with the concern of them
    bleeding into one another and looking like a gradient. I do enjoy the palette
    a lot, though.
  created: '2009-01-12 23:30:24'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "and just as an aside ... isn't the world round?\r\n\r\n;)\r\n<br />\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic
    Design Melbourne</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.showusyourshorts.com.au\">Short Film
    Festival</a>"
  created: '2009-01-12 23:48:59'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Only the Southern Hemisphere Paul. The top half is flat... hence the wobble
    : )\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-01-13 00:02:25'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "hahaha.\r\n\r\nexcellent call.\r\n\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul
    Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic Design Melbourne</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.showusyourshorts.com.au\">Short Film Festival</a>"
  created: '2009-01-13 00:14:17'
- author:
    name: atw
    picture: 112572
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/newhorizons2_6637.png]\r\na simpler idea,
    one that was put on the backburner earlier.\r\n\r\nthoughts?"
  created: '2009-01-13 04:07:19'
- author:
    name: bemerx25
    picture: 112539
  body: Too cliche IMO. Stay with the previous approach but perhaps bring that "horizon"
    curve into it.
  created: '2009-01-13 17:39:29'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: I would ask what horizons has to do with management rather than what a management
    company has to do with a literal horizon.
  created: '2009-01-13 17:58:16'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: Well put, jupiterboy. I second that thought.
  created: '2009-01-13 18:11:05'
- author:
    name: atw
    picture: 112572
  body: "I think what horizons has do w/ mgmt is a global, birds-eye view, a sense
    of scale where you can see everything, have foresight to plan for whats ahead,
    etc. For an musician working w/ the mgmt company, the horizon refers to their
    career path, their goals + aspirations. \r\n\r\nI'd like to communicate scale,
    something earthly/geographic since its geared towards folk musicans, creativity,
    and authenticity. \r\n"
  created: '2009-01-13 21:24:12'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "achieving goals. continuing to look/move forward. your own horizon. worlds
    within worlds<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul
    Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic Design Melbourne</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.showusyourshorts.com.au\">Short Film Festival</a>"
  created: '2009-01-13 22:42:52'
- author:
    name: TypographyShop
    picture: 114870
  body: "Just say it with type. And how might that type choice and treatment also
    communicate folksiness, music, earthiness?\r\n\r\nHead into the woods. Up to the
    mountain.  The color scheme and look you've got going feels like a swimming pool
    at a motel. Not folk music. "
  created: '2009-01-14 14:06:47'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Random thought: Keep one of the Os from your last concept (with the horizon
    line), but set the rest of the type in a nice serif face. \r\n"
  created: '2009-01-14 16:14:33'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: I re-read your original post. If the company is in Colorado, then you've got
    some very distinct horizons to draw from (mountains) which will give the mark
    a subject. Right now it feels a bit too depopulated. Horizons is a pretty common
    business name, so you should strive, as others have suggested, not to be too abstract
    with your imagery, or else you'll end up feeling like a nursing home (which is
    a business in my area) with the setting suns and vaguely placid look.
  created: '2009-01-14 16:50:10'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Random thoughts:\r\n\r\nHorizon, as it relates to celestial objects is used
    for navigation, rough estimates of time of day and other general figuring out.
    Celestial objects are generally visible at night. Thinking of the folk music,
    campfire, stars, moon, plus commerce and modernity, now satellite and stage light.
    I wonder if a stage light and a satellite could be combined into a hybrid and
    still be iconic and function as a logo? I wonder if a contemporary icon could
    be rendered in a handmade, warmish way?"
  created: '2009-01-14 17:29:44'
- author:
    name: Carolann
    picture: 114774
  body: "If the company is in CO, what do waves have to do with their company? I suppose
    they could be waves of a lake but that more readily alludes to the ocean in my
    mind.\r\n\r\nIf you are going to use waves, their colors looking like a gradient
    is inevitable. The fundamental way to create atmosphere is for the object that
    is further from the foreground to have a lighter intensity. \r\n\r\nIs the company
    more about the management or the music? I'm not sure that this would appeal to
    a singer/songwriter."
  created: '2009-01-16 06:43:07'
- author:
    name: atw
    picture: 112572
  body: "\r\n\r\nhey thx for all the feedback + input, really appreciate it.\r\n\r\nrethinking
    this a bit, trying to simplify and start with a solid visual concept. here a few
    _rough_ ideas, aiming to be tied more to mountains and horizon lines, and hoping
    these would communicate primarily to industry folks, and musicians second -- I'd
    like to settle into one direction and then try to incorporate something subtle
    that speaks directly to musicians if possible, but keeping it fairly general for
    now.\r\n\r\nleaving 'management' out for now\u2026\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/newhorizons4_4705.png]\r\n\r\nthoughts?"
  created: '2009-01-16 19:56:19'
- author:
    name: devilray2k1
  body: "another good idea is perhaps something that includes an abstract 'vanishing
    point' type of graphic coupled with a simple modern font\r\n\r\n\r\noriginality
    is great but also consider versatility\r\n\r\nif 'less is more' can work for company
    like..say ...Pepsi then it can work for you too"
  created: '2009-01-16 21:54:37'
- author:
    name: Carolann
    picture: 114774
  body: I like the center logo. And I think I like it just the way it is!
  created: '2009-01-17 14:48:22'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "While I get the Colorado reference, just a word of caution about using a
    mountain (like you did in the second one of your most recent sketches): It could
    read as something that <em>stands in the way</em> \u2013 not a very good thing
    for artist management. (This struck a nerve as I just had the same discussion
    with a client of mine who wanted a mountain in her logo.) \r\nIf you want mountains,
    I'd rather think about the impression of standing on top of one, looking out over
    a vast landscape (and possibly, other mountains) stretching out in front of you
    \u2013 rather than a mountain towering straight in front of you, blocking the
    light!\r\n\r\nBy the way, it may help to think about the tone/voice this should
    have. Your \r\nlatest sketches cover a pretty extreme range from corporate to
    \"skateboardish\". \r\nWhich is more appropriate?"
  created: '2009-01-17 15:19:22'
- author:
    name: illustarellite
    picture: 116720
  body: "the second sketch\r\n\r\nthird logo ..... you are trying to give the word
    a mountain shape\r\n\r\nbut it is not clear......... try again to make it more
    clear by giving the H a smaller size , and re-size all the letter to give it a
    mountain shape... and i thing a different font will work better... a font with
    thicker typeface\r\n\r\n\r\nabout the first sketch...... there is something in
    the 3rd row on the left\r\n\r\nthe 3/4 white space gives a good impression....
    \ unpredictable but good"
  created: '2009-01-17 18:36:26'
- author:
    name: atw
    picture: 112572
  body: "some new ideas\u2026thoughts?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/newhorizons_picks_web_5047.png]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-19 00:11:32'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "I would pursue the top-left option further. It looks like soundwaves, which
    fits with the client, and it's the cleanest out of all of these. \r\n\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2009-01-19 07:48:06'
- author:
    name: illustarellite
    picture: 116720
  body: "Second row on the right,Third row on the right, forth row on the left r the
    best\r\n\r\nforth row on the right... needs some editing... maybe get rid of the
    extra grey lines\r\n\r\nthe first on left.... combines mountains and horizon in
    a great way\r\n\r\ni would see the first on left & the forth on left r the best"
  created: '2009-01-19 07:49:05'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "1a is a great concept. Tweak it a bit more and it is your winner, I say.\r\n\r\nNice
    work!"
  created: '2009-01-26 19:41:00'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: I like the 2c the best. 1a is a second favorite, but it does have too much
    "sound" feel to it. All other versions IMO are deadends.
  created: '2009-01-26 21:46:02'
- author:
    name: designtn
    picture: 113015
  body: "try something like this?\r\nit's a 15 seconds hack job.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hrzn_4971.png]\r\n\r\n:tony"
  created: '2009-02-02 23:27:22'
- author:
    name: atw
    picture: 112572
  body: "@designtn that's clever.\r\n\r\nclient loves the 1a soundwaves direction,
    so here are a few redraws of the same idea. i'd love to simplify this and keep
    the same concept intact. anything jump @ you right away?\r\n\r\nthx![img:sites/default/files/old-images/hm_r3b_4582.png]"
  created: '2009-02-03 18:31:30'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "These are a little too fragile for me. I favor the cleverer, all-in-one approach
    that designtn put forward. Perhaps a more memorable font, or one with more character
    would work better though.\r\n\r\n\r\npenn"
  created: '2009-02-03 19:01:05'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Make sure it doesn't look like stylized lips.
  created: '2009-02-03 19:03:13'
- author:
    name: jakes
    picture: 116060
  body: yeah, a few of those look like lips. You can also try different thickness
    on lines to give it some depth...right now it looks quite flat.
  created: '2009-02-03 19:40:34'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "2nd what jakes said - try varying the curve thickness. Though not on per-curve
    basis, but rather by a curve segment depending on its Z (depth) order and perceived
    obstruction by closer layers. Something like this - gray segment needs to be thinner:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/horizons_6141.png]"
  created: '2009-02-03 21:52:39'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "Either 1A or 3B. KISS principle...\r\n\r\nIt's a pitty your client has gone
    this route already, because designtn's suggestion is by my opinion a better way
    to get to it. Especially for some management firm.\r\n\r\nAbout the last image.
    Is it suppose to be the cutoff letter style? Because if it is, forget it. FAST.
    Either one or the other. not both.\r\n___________\r\n<em>Robert Koritnik</em>"
  created: '2009-02-04 12:58:38'
- author:
    name: designtn
    picture: 113015
  body: "if you are going to proceed with the waves direction, I would suggest not
    cutting the bottom of the type, that is too much going on with the logo. preserve
    the typography as is and keep it simple.\r\n\r\n:tony"
  created: '2009-02-04 18:44:11'
- author:
    name: atw
    picture: 112572
  body: "Thank you all very much for the feedback\r\n\r\nI like @designtn's truncated
    type, it works well for a more general management company, IMO. \r\n\r\nbecause
    this company is working exclusively with small recording artists in the folk/rock
    realm, and is based in colorado, it makes sense to me to have a graphic expression,
    ie the soundwave/mtn. they're striving not to look too corporate, yet retain a
    professional feel, and some personality and authenticity.\r\n\r\nI also agree,
    its either a graphic expression OR a type treatment, not both.\r\n\r\nReally like
    the thoughts @epsilicon had about shading -- I'd love for this to work in bw,
    but definitely plan on having this show more depth with shading or tinting of
    a couple colors. \r\n\r\n@litera, I agree w/ you about picks from this round -
    they're less lip-like and quicker reads. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-04 20:48:51'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: '@atw - thickness, Aaron, not shading. Gray segment on my sketch indicates
    the part that I meant to be thinner.'
  created: '2009-02-04 21:59:15'
- author:
    name: atw
    picture: 112572
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hm_r3c_6391.png]\r\n\r\nI lean towards
    2"
  created: '2009-02-05 20:24:28'
- author:
    name: bemerx25
    picture: 112539
  body: 2 looks like some vaudeville's evil villain mustachio. 1 still has a bit of
    lip vibe. 3 is good but the lowest dropping line, I think, drops down a touch
    too much.
  created: '2009-02-05 20:59:42'
- author:
    name: atw
    picture: 112572
  body: "client decided to go w/ #1\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hm_r3c2_3592.png]"
  created: '2009-02-06 06:55:19'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: '3'
  created: '2009-02-06 16:30:11'
- author:
    name: Wording
  body: For the fact that it is a small artist firm, I really like the idea of something
    that almost looks hand drawn. Designtn Took my other idea ...I really like it.
  created: '2009-02-08 14:51:55'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "Well at least your done?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design"
  created: '2009-02-11 01:11:34'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Does the type have to be below it? I think forcing it underneath is part of
    what is holding it back.
  created: '2009-02-13 17:58:00'
- author:
    name: zerimar3
  body: "Miss Tiffany makes a good point. The type below makes it hold back a bit.
    The punch of the logo that is. But obviously you stated that the client has already
    chosen a logo. For future reference however, you might find this article useful:
    \r\nhttp://freelanceswitch.com/general/dissecting-the-logo-design-creation-process/\r\n\r\nAnd
    for some great inspiration on the use of positive and negative space, you might
    want to look at this one here: \r\nhttp://abduzeedo.com/clever-logos\r\n\r\nOverall,
    your logo looks good and I'm sure it'll fit the needs as it's already met the
    criteria of your client. "
  created: '2009-02-15 00:52:04'
- author:
    name: atw
    picture: 112572
  body: "They've made their pick, but they're flexible. We're working through some
    branding ideas including color, and its not too late to do something else w/ the
    placement of type. What would you suggest to strengthen it? \r\n"
  created: '2009-02-15 03:01:04'
- author:
    name: zerimar3
  body: "atw, there are many suggestions that can be offered to strengthen the logo.
    You can make it tighter and cleaner. If the client, however, has already picked
    the design then you're good to go. \r\n\r\nIf you're still working on color variations,
    it may be possible to bring some boldness or strength to the design. The type
    definitely would have to be re-arranged. Nothing major, but as Miss Tiffany suggested;
    make it look less forced. But you'll need to provide other variations for this.
    Hopefully things are going well with the process though. "
  created: '2009-02-18 08:23:46'
- author:
    name: zerimar3
  body: 'Feel free to post any new variations at your leisure. I''m still getting
    used to this forum so I''ll be back to check on any updates. '
  created: '2009-02-18 08:25:53'
- author:
    name: atw
    picture: 112572
  body: "couple variations on type placement/orientation [img:sites/default/files/old-images/hm_r4c_3898.png]\r\nclient
    digs 4"
  created: '2009-02-18 16:03:06'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "Number 4 is the only one that looks like the type belongs with the mark.\r\n\r\n
    - Lex"
  created: '2009-02-19 01:06:03'
- author:
    name: zerimar3
  body: These are interesting, if I had to choose one it'd probably be 4 as well.
    But I don't understand the iconic logo of the design...but if you made it happen,
    then it's all good.
  created: '2009-02-22 00:45:05'
- author:
    name: atw
    picture: 112572
  body: "\r\nlogo\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/HM_logo_3970.png]\r\n\r\nicon\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/HM_icon_6179.png]"
  created: '2009-03-05 03:23:51'
- author:
    name: MrKikkoman
    picture: 115551
  body: great progress! i think it looks good. i like the icon b/c it shows the depth.
  created: '2009-03-05 03:50:41'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "Interestingly enough maybe the last \"icon\" should be the logo? Sorry. But
    it looks really nice.\r\n___________\r\n<em>Robert Koritnik</em>"
  created: '2009-03-05 14:36:53'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "It does. It evolved nicely and it's actually now circled back to one of the
    original concepts :)\r\n\r\nI would consider getting rid of thinner parts of the
    curves though. They were needed in a b/w version to show the perspective, but
    here the same can be done with just the colors. Something like this (thin segment
    still needs to be thickened to match other curves):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/horizons-2_4115.png]"
  created: '2009-03-05 17:51:33'
- author:
    name: zerimar3
  body: 'It''s looking nice there man, keep it up. The colors really add pop to it.
    But as epsilicon said, I would work on the thinner lines. '
  created: '2009-03-08 01:13:37'
- author:
    name: sohappy2
    picture: 111043
  body: I came late to the party on this one. Getting caught up. A couple of thoughts
    though, assuming the thread isn't dead... First of all, I loved this thread because
    of Aaron's willingness to listen to advice and go in a completely different direction
    in order to make things better. The difference between the very first proposal
    and this "nearly finished" logo is remarkable. Nice work! I would like to second
    (or third) the advice that you consider using the icon as the logo. The only caution
    I would throw out is how similar it is to the Wachovia Bank logo (www.wachovia.com).
    Wachovia has branches in Colorado... don't want to get confused. Good Luck!
  created: '2009-03-10 20:10:34'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "woah ... this thread is STILL going?\r\nhasn't exactly come leaps and bounds
    in 2 months.\r\n\r\nbut as mentioned the latest 'icon' is looking pretty good.\r\nI
    still see cigarettes though ... but there is a brand here called horizons that
    use those exact colours. and on the colour topic ... it just kinda seems cold
    and impersonal.\r\n\r\nI really like the wood grain concept ... it just feels
    warm and ... workable.\r\n\r\nwhy not use a thin wedge/hemisphere of wood placed
    with it's outer trunk pointing up (creating a curved horizon.)\r\n<br />\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic
    Designer</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.showusyourshorts.com.au\">Short Film Festival</a>"
  created: '2009-03-17 22:07:55'
date: '2009-01-12 20:15:13'
title: Logo critique --> artist management

---
