---
author:
  name: nina
  picture: 111699
body: "Dear Typophiles,\r\n\r\nHere is the first version of the lowercase alphabet
  of my first typeface*, Ernestine**. Backstory is <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/50670\">here</a>.\r\n\r\n*
  I have made a little family of bitmap fonts before, but I'm not counting this here
  because Curves Are Hard.\r\n** See below.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ernestine_lc_v1-1_5490.gif]\r\n\r\nThe
  intended use for this is twofold, my main focus being small text (thanks to Hrant,
  as well as Hans J\xF6rg Hunziker in class, for bringing this idea to mind); the
  other, possibly, display: The plan is to first finish this \"base\" cut shown above,
  and then deduce two additional optical sizes from it, which will likely be of more
  practical use than the base itself. First, an optically corrected small size cut
  with more weight & looser spacing; intended point size is 3 to 8*. And second, if
  time permits, a display cut with less weight & more detail.\r\n\r\n* Some quick
  experiments with ink traps, opened counters, and the like revealed that this can
  be surprisingly legible at 3pt, and rather comfortable at 4.\r\n\r\nI'd be very
  grateful for crits, and any opinions really. I've been *very* immersed in this over
  the past couple of weeks or so, so I presume I don't really see most of the issues
  myself. (I must say a monoline typeface really seems to be quite a beast to try
  to tackle, too.) Spacing btw is still quite preliminary.\r\n\r\n** Oh, and the name.
  Ernestine is the working title that I kind of got stuck on. I think it matches the
  feel of this rather nicely, but the word looks uh, suboptimal (very long, and somewhat
  boring) when set in the typeface, so I'm open for different naming ideas that would
  also look good. :-)\r\n\r\nSo, I'm throwing her out there. Please don't hold back,
  and don't be gentle for the sake of it: I'm trying to learn, and I'm wanting to
  actually make this usable.\r\n\r\n\u2014Nina\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Nachos
    picture: 116245
  body: "Good work Nina. I like the thick serifs and especially the readability of
    this face at the smaller point size (8pt is my favorite). \r\n\r\nThe ball terminals
    seem to be more compelling on the 'k','r' and 'y'. For some reason on the 'c',
    'g' and 'f' are not pulling it off as well. I prefer the third 'g' as well.\r\n\r\nOtherwise,
    well done!"
  created: '2009-01-13 00:07:34'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Great to see this. Here are some thoughts. (Keep in mind I'm only about one
    awkward set of caps ahead of you in type-design experience, so take with a grain
    of salt.)\r\n\r\nThis is a personable font that is already working well both small
    and big. \r\n\r\nI prefer g #1 as far as fit with the character of the font goes.\r\n\r\nThere's
    something I very much like about the b.\r\n\r\nThe blunt terminals at the bottom
    of c, e, s, and t seem too crude. I wonder if there are other solutions.\r\n\r\nLeast
    successful are k and s: k because the mismatch of a structural straight arm and
    an unfurling curve (something sort of Cyrillic looking to this), and s because
    it's a bit lumpy and struggling to be wide.\r\n\r\nIn some cases the ball terminals
    seem too tacked-on, rather than developing gracefully out of a curve. This is
    particularly true where the curve leading to it is flattening out to reach horizontally,
    as in c, f, and s most noticeably. \r\n\r\nThe top join of q seems odd to me -
    it has no analogues in the other letters that I could find. Did you try it with
    an intersection like the bottom of b has?\r\n\r\nSomething about the thickness
    of the arm of the r doesn't look right to me.\r\n\r\nThe serifs at the tops of
    v, w, x, and y seem too heavy. I never thought about it before, but I suppose
    if you adjust diagonals for optical balance you might have to adjust slab serifs
    at the ends of them. v and w may be a bit too spread at the bottom, and thus light
    (topheavy).\r\n\r\nI might consider raising the intersection of the y, and maybe
    bringing the top-right vertex of the z leftward a touch.\r\n\r\nSeems to me like
    this has a great deal of both charm and function - very impressively so for a
    first font!"
  created: '2009-01-13 01:53:38'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "sorry for writing german, i wrote this for german typografie.info, then deciding
    to add it here for more coherence:\r\n\r\n\r\nganz kurz, spontan und unvollst\xE4ndig,
    und mit Bedacht zu genie\xDFen:\r\n\r\ndas sieht schon sehr sehr ausgewogen und
    ruhig aus, spitze! Ich w\xFCnschte ich h\xE4tte den Nerv, so lange am Grundalphabet
    zu bleiben, bevor ich mich aus Neugierde und Langeweile in Zeichensatz- und Schnitt-Orgien
    verliere :)\r\n\r\n- die jeweils rechten Teile von y und v, vielleicht auch bei
    w und x, stechen im PDF in den kleinen Punktgr\xF6\xDFen dezent heraus, sind zu
    dunkel. Das mag am Rendering liegen (PDF-Vorschau von OSX) oder wirklich ein Problemchen
    sein.\r\n- der obere Teil vom \"k\" wirkt mir eine Spur zu verspielt. Ich sehe
    dass das mit dem \"r\" korrespondiert, aber dort ist es irgendwie weniger \"curly\".
    Vielleicht braucht das \"k\" eine gerade Serife, keinen Tropfen? Tropfen h\xE4ngen
    bei dir sonst immer nur an Rundungen, der Tropfen beim \"k\" macht das auch \"rund\",
    auch wenn's das eigentlich nicht ist.\r\n- das \"s\" ist mir links oben und rechts
    unten eine Spur zu eckig. Auch links unten macht es einen recht abrupten Schwenk
    nach oben. Vielleicht mal neben ein \"a\" stellen und wirken lassen. Au\xDFerdem
    ist es oben zu schwer, und/oder in den senkrechten Teilen etwas zu leicht. F\xFCr
    mich (neben dem verfluchten \"d\" und den Schr\xE4gen) der schwierigste Buchstabe.\r\n-
    das \"z\" hat einen leichten Hang nach links. \r\n- das \"u\" hat im rechten Teil
    seines Bogens einen leichten Knick, es geht eine Spur zu gerade nach oben.\r\n\r\nDinge
    die vielleicht mit der Industria zu tun haben, die ich nat\xFCrlich nicht wie
    du aus dem FF kenne: \r\n- ich bevorzuge #1 der drei \"g\" (ggf. mit etwas weniger
    gekr\xE4useltem Ohr), wenn das nicht, dann #3. Das mittlere steht in den vertikalen
    Proportionen zwischen den St\xFChlen und k\xF6nnte durch das \"Schmuckelement
    sogar fleckig werden. Hier kann man aber sicher auch zwischen Display und kleinem
    Text streiten ...\r\n- das \"q\" sieht mir noch am unfertigsten aus. Oben ist
    es mir eine Spur zu rund, d.h. die Rundung geht rechts eine Spur zu weit nach
    unten. Die Serife geh\xF6rt f\xFCr mich rein gef\xFChlsm\xE4\xDFig genau in die
    andere Richtung. "
  created: '2009-01-13 08:10:24'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thanks for your feed-back guys! Much appreciated.\r\n\r\nThe ball terminals
    are one of my big \"question marks\" about this. I had a lot more of them at one
    point (like on the head of the \"a\", and both ends of the \"s\") but realized
    they close up the shapes too much. Now I don't know if they are too few and far
    between to still make sense as a principle. Also, it's true they don't work equally
    well in all their instances \u2013 thanks for pointing this out.\r\n\r\nJesse,\r\n\r\n<em>\"I
    prefer the third \u2019g\u2019 as well.\"</em>\r\nIt seems to come down to the
    first or the third. While I do heart the second one, I agree it doesn't work very
    well in text; I'll probably keep it as an alternate for the display cut though.
    The first is the one most closely following the metal face I was (partly) working
    off. Only beef I have with the third really is that it keeps reminding me of Souvenir.
    :-|\r\n\r\nCraig,\r\n\r\n<em>\"The blunt terminals at the bottom of c, e, s, and
    t seem too crude\"</em>\r\nOh \u2026 I wonder what could be done about this. I
    was actually quite happy to come up with this solution; as noted above, I had
    more ball terminals before, but that was getting too much. Also I felt I needed
    to add a little weight / \"determination\" to the terminal at least in the \"s\",
    otherwise it was starting to feel top-heavy (and the \"t\" keeps toppling over
    anyway). Hmm.\r\n\r\n<em>\"Least successful are k and s\"</em>\r\nYeah, touch
    me where it hurts! :-)\r\nThose were the ones I was struggling with most. I had
    no idea how difficult it is to make a \"k\" (especially at this kind of width).
    With the \"s\", I was at least expecting it (which of course didn't make it easier).
    In any case, I agree those aren't done yet.\r\n\r\n<em>\"The top join of q seems
    odd to me\"</em>\r\nThat's actually one of the details that carried over from
    said metal face I was working off; I must say I like that little corner that doesn't
    say where it's coming from :-). Although I guess I should also try a \"b\"-like
    smooth intersection & compare.\r\n\r\n<em>\"The serifs at the tops of v, w, x,
    and y seem too heavy\"</em>\r\nI was noticing some weirdness there too, but must
    say I feel quite insecure generally with all of those \"diagonal\" lettershapes.
    \r\nI wonder how much of the impression of excessive serif weight is due to the
    diagonals, and how much to the fact that they're on the x-height; they're the
    same weight as the ones sitting on the baseline, but I guess they also look heavier
    when they're up there. I wonder if I should thin them overall (throughout vwxy)
    or maybe just on the insides or something? \r\n\r\nSebastian,\r\n\r\nHope you
    don't mind if I reply in English to \"tie in\" your comments with the rest :-).\r\n\r\n<em>\"-
    die jeweils rechten Teile von y und v, vielleicht auch bei w und x, stechen im
    PDF in den kleinen Punktgr\xF6\xDFen dezent heraus, sind zu dunkel\"</em>\r\nDo
    you think this excessive weight on the right hand side of yv/wx might have something
    to do with the serif weight discussed above? Or is it just the stem weight that's
    off? (There's something fundamentally wrong with the \"y\" in particular that
    I'm still looking to pinpoint. Is it weight?)\r\n\r\n<em>\"Vielleicht braucht
    das \u201Ck\u201D eine gerade Serife, keinen Tropfen?\"</em>\r\nHm \u2013 I had
    a version with a straight serif on the \"k\" and it looked like an industrial
    clamp or something ;-) \u2013 although the ball terminal may be too cute (if it
    works at all).\r\n\r\n<em>\"[q] Die Serife geh\xF6rt f\xFCr mich rein gef\xFChlsm\xE4\xDFig
    genau in die andere Richtung\"</em>\r\nInteresting. While it may well be unbalanced
    yet, the <em>principle</em> of having the serif of the \"q\" face rightwards feels
    right to me, and seems to make a lot of sense too*. Does it look very confusing/weird?
    (Does it look weird to others too?)\r\n* Readability, stressing of reading direction,
    disambiguation with \"p\"/\"g\". To give credit where credit is due, most of the
    thought that went into the \"q\" serif comes from reading about Hrant's alphabet
    reform work \u2013 and I then kept finding \"q\"s with rightwards-facing terminals/serifs
    in \"real life\" too, and felt they work/read nicely.\r\n\r\n-- \r\n\r\nThanks
    again! This is extremely helpful. Keep'em coming. :-)\r\n\u2014Nina"
  created: '2009-01-13 12:19:34'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "re: c/s/t terminals, I can see why a little added weight serves you well.
    Could you just soften those corners a little? \r\n\r\nI do think, if you're going
    to stick with the ball terminals, that you should have one on the head of the
    a, too. (I confess that my printout on US Letter paper cut off half that letter
    so I didn't catch its absence at first.)\r\n\r\nOne new comment: on the central
    intersection of the x. It looks like you've offset the / stroke but not the \\
    stroke. In a contrast face I think that would work well but here where the strokes
    are even I'd expect the intersection to be more symmetrical, too. As it is, you
    get a little clockwise torque to that crossing.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-13 15:11:08'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "A friendly and jolly face, this! I see great potential for expansion here.
    I think you have to work more on most of the curves, though, especially the c,
    s, u, n, m, f and e, and the y and j descender hooks look quite wobbly and uneven
    to me, making them look kind of bent iron-ish. The r looks a little weak, too.
    Is that u a little too wide? I'd try a ball terminal on the a once more, and try
    compensating by making the bowl smaller. \r\n\r\nYour b, p and k are truly beautiful!
    Definitely keep that k.\r\n\r\nThat first g is my favourite. I'm looking forward
    to see this revised. \r\n\r\nS."
  created: '2009-01-13 15:50:43'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Heh, looks like the \"k\" is a love/hate character. Which kind of makes me
    want to keep it.\r\n\r\nDo you guys really think this is better?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ernestine-aa_5625.png]\r\n\r\nI
    was all excited about the left hand shape at first, but chucked out the ball terminal
    after looking at this in text size. Somehow I felt it was mannered and a bit too
    \"pretty\"; most of all, it seems to stand in the way of readability, especially
    in smaller sizes. Closes up the counter too much (and looks too dark, given that
    the \"a\" is a pretty dam busy character already). Also, I wouldn't want to make
    the bowl of the \"a\" *much* smaller, since it'd then lose all reasonable proportion,
    as well as any connection with the eye of the \"e\".\r\n\r\nOther points well
    taken. Craig, thanks for pointing me to the \"x\"; I realized while I was making
    it I really don't know much about \"x\"s. Need to look at some others some more.\r\n\r\n<em>\"re:
    c/s/t terminals, I can see why a little added weight serves you well. Could you
    just soften those corners a little?\"</em>\r\nSoften? As in round? Or as in, cut
    at a different angle?\r\n\r\n<em>\"The r looks a little weak, too.\"</em>\r\nYeah,
    that's a defiant little thing that doesn't know if it wants to be straight or
    curved, and ends up being kind of both (and too light in the process).\r\n\r\n<em>\"Is
    that u a little too wide?\"</em>\r\nHuh, might be. I just checked and it is narrower
    than the \"n\", but only a little. I haven't checked its width after changing
    serif shape/size around a few times, and looking at this I agree it looks wide.\r\n\r\nIs
    the \"w\" too narrow btw?"
  created: '2009-01-13 18:50:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "(I was worried, but I'm happy to see that Typophile is\r\nstill a good place
    to get a type crit - keep it up guys!)\r\n\r\nNina, are you sure this is your
    first font? :-) Because it's coming together quite well, and has much more depth
    than a beginner usually shows. Heck, many old-timers just play on the surface
    their whole careers. It's certainly frightening jumping into that dark, luscious
    jungle.\r\n\r\nFor example, the decision of putting a ball on the \"a\" or not,
    of how to do the top-right of the \"q\", these are things that you can either
    just formally mimic precedent, or really think about first. When I was making
    Patria I tried to make the letters be what they needed to be in terms of reading,
    as opposed to just something that other type designers would applaud. I like to
    leave the terminal of the \"a\" pretty \"weak\" because I believe it helps readability
    (without looking ugly - in fact it can look quite elegant and graceful). I think
    your \"q\" however is going in the wrong direction, it's neither attractive nor
    harmonious. Not the descender mind you - that's wonderful! I mean the top-right.
    I would try giving it a vertical spike/serif, like in the \"z\". If that doesn't
    work I might try making it like the \"b\" (even though many type design will definitely
    go \"uuugh\"). Divergence is extremely important in a text face, it's just very
    easy to go too far, and too tempting to do it semi-randomly. You need some method
    (and you seem to be good at that).\r\n\r\nCraig says that the \"terminals at the
    bottom of c, e, s, and t seem too crude\". I agree, and I think it's because they're
    gently flaring (in the \"a\" as well). If you make them totally monoline, or maybe
    even taper gently, I think that might fix it.\r\n\r\nThe first \"g\" is more harmonious,
    but the third one might be just what the font needs in terms of making its mark.
    I would make the third one the default and the first the alternate. Don't worry
    about any Souvenir connection. Oh, and dump the second one.  :-)\r\n\r\nThe \"k\"
    I actually like very much! And like Spiekermann has said, a love/hate glyph can
    be a veritable gold-mine! You might need to tweak it later, but I would let it
    live until there's reason to believe there's a problem.\r\n\r\nThe ball of the
    \"r\" needs to be larger.\r\n\r\nThe head of the \"s\" is recoiling. You might
    pull it to the right a hair.\r\n\r\nThe very top of the \"t\" is boring. Not sure
    how to best fix it though.\r\nAnd I would make the leftward bar flat on the bottom,
    slanted on the top.\r\n\r\nI think I would make the \"u\" serifs like the ones
    in the \"v\". That's one convention that seems to make sense (even though it seems
    counter-intuitive).\r\n\r\nI would make the \"z\" serifs longer.\r\n\r\nThe exclamation
    mark is way too blah.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nI also have some macro crits:\r\nIf this
    is really a text-size cut, and you're planning on making a small-size cut, the
    problem is this cut is already very wide and large on the body*. If this will
    be used small, it needs to be darker. If there will be another smaller cut, what's
    THAT going to look like?! :-)  I'm not sure what to recommend, because the large
    width of this design is part of its charm and character... Normally I would recommend
    making a bit narrower. Another way is to shoot for small text with this (and probably
    give up on making a smaller cut) and make it darker.\r\n\r\n* Like Jesse said,
    it's happy at 8 (and maybe even 7).\r\n\r\nIn any case, the vertical proportions
    are a bit off. Assuming the x-height will stay this size, if this is shooting
    for small text I would shorten the descenders; if it's shooting for 9-10 point
    I would lengthen the ascenders.\r\n\r\nNina, this is great stuff - please keep
    it up!\r\n(But don't forget to eat and breathe.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-15 20:59:32'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Hrant, thanks for your critique; it's much appreciated.\r\n\r\nDepth: I'm
    glad to hear the thought that is behind at least some of this is showing. I generally
    can hardly do any work without a semi-solid concept. And actually, \r\nmany of
    the things you criticize are those I hadn't really thought about, but rather \"assumed\"
    as sort of a starting point \u2013 like the vertical metrics, for instance.\r\n\r\n<em>\"Divergence
    is extremely important in a text face, it\u2019s just very easy to go too far,
    and too tempting to do it semi-randomly.\"</em>\r\nYes! And I find it very hard
    to tell how much irregularity is OK in terms of doing\r\nwhat feels right, or
    what seems to work; and how much *must* be standardized. \r\nLike serif size:
    most of them are slightly longer on the right-hand side, those in \r\nthe more
    symmetrical and/or busy glyphs are symmetrical, and I have made them significantly
    longer on the right-hand side of the \"f\" and \"r\" because I felt these glyphs
    got stronger / more stable this way \u2013 and I have no clue if it's a good idea
    (theoretically) to work them like this. \r\nThe mysterious convergence of Brain
    and Gut makes this a very interesting process. :-)\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nSelected details:
    the others aren't forgotten, but on the checklist for the next round.\r\n\r\n<em>\"I
    like to leave the terminal of the \u201Ca\u201D pretty \u201Cweak\u201D\u2026\"</em>\r\nI
    didn't consciously realize this before, but I like Patria's \"a\" a lot. \r\nAs
    well as the one in Constantia (which is also \"weak\").\r\n\r\n\"g\": It's awful,
    but I've realized I don't *like* the third one. We're just not friends. \r\nI'll
    search for this shape some more. Maybe something between the first and the third
    one, with the join of the descender at an intermediate angle, might be interesting.\r\n\r\n\"k\":
    I'm glad to hear you like this one! Because I've decided I do like it, \r\nand
    hope to be daring enough to keep it (or something conceptually close to it). :-)\r\n\r\n<em>\"The
    very top of the \u201Ct\u201D is boring. Not sure how to best fix it though.\"</em>\r\nMaybe
    something like this? (Please try to ignore the ugly bottom.)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/taper-t_4747.png]\r\n\r\n<em>\"I
    think I would make the \u201Cu\u201D serifs like the ones in the \u201Cv\u201D.
    That\u2019s one convention that seems to make sense (even though it seems counter-intuitive).\"</em>\r\nHuh.
    Extremely counter-intuitive. I'll have to play around with that.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nOn
    the macro level: You know, I have no idea what this cut should do. In fact, \r\nI
    don't really think of it as doing something, more as being the \"master design\"\r\nof
    sorts; like a cell that hasn't differentiated, & can still grow into something
    really small, or something really large. But that may not make that much sense
    as a plan.\r\n\r\nI don't know. I guess it's definitely not for standard text
    sizes (I just honestly can't picture anyone using this at 11 or 12pt, and yes
    I'm reluctant to make it narrower). I agree it feels quite happy at around 8;
    so how about I make this the base cut for say 7\u201310, and then derive one for
    3\u20136 (I do want to see how low I can go with this). Does that make sense?\r\n(Because
    the \"tiny\" cut needs traps, and if there's something I loathe in type, \r\nit's
    visible ink traps at larger point sizes. And the traps I've experimented with
    \r\nare visible at 10.)\r\n\r\n<em>\"If there will be another smaller cut, what\u2019s
    THAT going to look like?! :-)\"</em>\r\nHey, remember the downright absurd proportions
    (I called them \"funky\" back then!) of <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/50670\">that
    metal face</a>? :-)\r\nSeriously though: I'd like the \"tiny\" cut not to look
    substantially wider than this, just slightly heavier. Though I don't know yet
    if I can make that work.\r\n\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nI'm letting this rest for a couple
    more days, as I'm currently facing a heap \r\nof (other) work; I'm planning to
    get back to working on it in the weekend, \r\nand hoping to post a revision maybe
    next week. No worries: This is my project \r\nfor the Zurich course after all,
    so I'll need to finish *something* by June! \r\n\r\nI'm not that petrified of
    the jungle anymore. After all, I'm armed with coffee, \r\nchocolate, and beer.
    And I feel like I'm at least beginning to see a path.\r\nAnd it's great to have
    Typophile! (Especially now that school's on spring break.)\r\n\r\n\u2014Nina"
  created: '2009-01-16 02:46:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I have made them significantly longer on the right-hand side\r\n> of the
    \u201Cf\u201D and \u201Cr\u201D because I felt these glyphs got stronger\r\n\r\nThat
    is a classic and smart feature.\r\n\r\nConstantia's \"a\": it's my favorite glyph
    in that font. I'm pretty sure that John had seen Patria while making Constantia,
    and I think he's said that he liked my \"a\", but I can't be sure mine was a direct
    influence. Proforma has a great \"a\" too.\r\n\r\nYour new \"t\" seems too...
    sophisticated?\r\nDunno, maybe your original form is good.\r\n\r\n> being the
    \u201Cmaster design\u201D\r\n\r\nCool.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-16 03:01:40'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Man, you're quick.\r\n\r\n<em>\"I\u2019m pretty sure that John had seen Patria
    while making Constantia\"</em>\r\nOh. Neat!\r\n\r\n<em>\"Your new \u201Ct\u201D
    seems too... sophisticated?\r\nDunno, maybe your original form is good.\"</em>\r\n:-D\r\nI'll
    play around with it in the weekend.\r\n\r\n\u2014Nina"
  created: '2009-01-16 03:11:18'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>[terminals]\r\n\"If you make them totally monoline, or maybe even taper
    gently\"</em>\r\n\r\nThis feels like a pretty major breakthrough.* \r\n(Although
    the bowl isn't done yet.)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/a-a_5874.png]\r\n\r\n*
    It's pretty weird to have \"major breakthroughs\" \r\nthat \"normal people\" don't
    even see!\r\n\r\nMore soon."
  created: '2009-01-17 00:41:26'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'Yes, far better; the tapered terminal now relates nicely to the serifs. '
  created: '2009-01-17 05:45:12'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Hi Nina\r\nI saw this one starting off on your blog and like the direction
    you're taking. \r\nThe tapered hood of your a looks great; not too noticeable
    but keeps the lightness and openness you want. My solution would have probably
    been to raise the terminal up more horizontal, to keep the line thickness even,
    but that would have destroyed the shape of the glyph completely. The tapering
    will really help your s.\r\nI prefer the souvenir g, but do see what happens when
    you mix it with the first one, with the tail starting between those two versions.\r\nThe
    k doesn't work for me, but it's not the curl, it's the crossbar...for me it's
    too wide and I'd bring the knee in a notch or two. Would that do odd things to
    the angle of the arm and leg?\r\nYou're right about monolines being the most difficult!
    I haven't ventured into them yet. Good luck! :)\r\nI'm also a beginner so "
  created: '2009-01-17 09:36:54'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thanks, guys! I'm glad to hear this terminal works for people other than
    me too; \r\nI am quite happy with the way it seems to unify the letterform to
    appear like more of a consciously designed whole, if that makes any sense (though
    I know that bowl is still lumpy).\r\nAlso, I honestly wasn't expecting it to work.
    \ :->\r\n\r\nIt's going to be an interesting process to work the different offending
    terminals in such a fashion; without the added weight of a flaring terminal, I
    expect quite a few letters to fall apart (like the \"s\" and the \"t\"), which
    is probably a good thing because it'll show me how they don't work.\r\n\r\nBen:
    Thanks for your comments! \r\nRe the \"a\", I'm finding it pretty difficult not
    to make the shapes too angular & \r\nstill make them fit into these wide proportions.
    I would indeed rather keep this kind of curvy.\r\n\r\n<em>\"The k doesn\u2019t
    work for me, but it\u2019s not the curl, it\u2019s the crossbar...for me it\u2019s
    too wide and I\u2019d bring the knee in a notch or two.\"</em>\r\nInteresting.
    To be honest, I was actually wondering if I had to make it wider. \r\nNeed to
    look at this in context / some more / seriously / \u2026 :-)\r\n\r\n<em>\"Would
    that do odd things to the angle of the arm and leg?\"</em>\r\nIt probably would,
    though I'd have to test. As it stands, at least the angle of the arm corresponds
    (roughly) to the \"x\".\r\n\r\n<em>\"I\u2019m also a beginner so\"</em>\r\nWow\u2026
    did you fall asleep mid-sentence? :-)"
  created: '2009-01-18 00:00:59'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "oh dear!\r\nI think I meant 'so don't take my comments too seriously'!\r\n\r\nWhat
    about trying to make the crossbar on the k flow into the lower leg, smoothly,
    as a curve? I think that might harmonise better with the ball terminal and help
    keep the overall texture curvy, which seems to be your direction."
  created: '2009-01-18 13:00:34'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ernestine_v2_3793.gif]\r\n(Also, new
    PDF up top: ernestine_lc_v2.)\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nI've found that trying to work
    out a cut that isn't supposed (or capable) \r\nto do anything by itself is too
    abstract for me to figure out (and also started feeling kind of pointless). So,
    I am shooting for 8\u201310 with this &ndash; which seemed \r\nto necessitate
    some rather deep changes. (I'm keeping the old contours, though, \r\nas a possible
    starting point for an eventual small size cut.)\r\n\r\nSince this starts off in
    a bit of a new/refined direction, which also seems a bit scary, I'd love some
    feed-back before diving into all the detail refinements that I'm aware this needs.
    \r\nI have done quite a bit of detail work, but most of that was <em>before</em>
    re-thinking proportions, darkness, and contrast. So I concede the old version
    has more even color than the new, but I'm hoping that's just due to the fact I
    haven't done nearly as much detail tweaking on the new one yet. Also, spacing
    is still quite basic. \r\nI'm also aware that the weights are still kind of all
    over the place, and they seem to behave pretty unpredictably when printed small-ish.
    I guess this isn't a project I can pull off with my 600 dpi laser printer; I'm
    hoping to be able to buy a better one soon (which is one reason why I'd rather
    not start out with the small size cut yet).\r\n\r\nSo I guess the most important
    question is: Does this make sense? \r\n(= Does it read better, or at least promise
    to do so after further tweakage?)\r\n\r\nI'm sure this new direction runs me into
    a slew of new problems I'm not even seeing yet (yay! and I mean that). Don't hold
    back. I'm really trying to learn and understand what makes a text face work; and
    I'm up for redoing & changing this until it can do what I need it to (as long
    as I can sometimes still find time to sleep, and do the work that feeds me).\r\n\r\n--
    \r\n\r\nSome detail notes:\r\n\r\n\"q\": I couldn't make it work with a vertical
    serif on top. That thing kept looking tacked on, kept messing with the bowl in
    ways I didn't appreciate, and I couldn't really see why it'd <em>need</em> to
    be there. So, here's a \"q\" with a join like in the \"b\", \r\nand it's actually
    one of my very favorite glyphs! So, I'm officially challenging \r\nall of you
    (except for Hrant I guess) to go \"uuugh\", and then tell me why.\r\n\r\n\"g\":
    The other one has not been voted off the show, I just haven't adapted it yet.\r\n\r\nHrant:\r\n<em>\"I
    think I would make the 'u' serifs like the ones in the 'v'.\"</em>\r\nI officially
    don't get this.&nbsp;&nbsp;:-{&nbsp;&nbsp;I tried making them flat on top and
    angled on the bottom, and that looked positively weird, especially next to glyphs
    like \"i\" or \"n\" where I'd expect the same serif shape. It kind of makes the
    \"u\" look like a flipped \"n\", or like it's hanging from the x-height rather
    than standing solidly. Or did you mean something else? I'm confused.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nI'm
    very grateful for any pointers, opinions and crits. I'll let this hang around*
    for a few days \u2013 and am looking forward to then resuming work on it in full
    blast. :-)\r\n\r\n\u2014Nina\r\n\r\n* <a href=\"http://altaira.de/posted/ernestine-wall.jpg\">I
    like the way my office wall looks.</a>"
  created: '2009-01-28 00:42:37'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Salt ready?\r\n\r\nYour strategy of getting right to a target size design
    is sound, and the helpful side-by-side comparison demonstrates at a glance how
    well the revised design is fulfilling that function. Even on my likewise low-res
    printer's version, it's impressive to see that the charming character comes through
    at small sizes while remaining perfectly legible.\r\n\r\nHere are the things I
    would (or might) take another look at:\r\n\r\nc/e/s : I sung the praises of this
    taper before, but I wonder if starting the taper a little later (letting the bottoms
    of these letters stay thick a little longer) would serve you well. At small sizes
    the c and e lose that end and look like they have an overbite. s actually winds
    up looking inverted: maybe reconsider the relative width of the counters as well
    as shortening the taper? (All that said, s's curves have picked up a lot of grace
    since v.1.)\r\n\r\ng : might be a little too prominent. Does the tail reach around
    too far? Maybe also consider reducing the scale of the entire upper bowl by lifting
    it up off the baseline? (I'm not sure but I think that the bottom of that bowl
    need not align with b, q, etc.)\r\n\r\nq : yes, it's quirky, but if you're going
    to let the foppish k into the party, maybe you can't say no to the nice bald guy,
    too!\r\n\r\nv/w/x/y : relative stroke weights on these diagonal letters need work.
    In general these don't have near the same confidence as the rest of the alphabet.
    I wonder if w might be a touch too wide. The / stroke of x is too thin, and the
    optical offset isn't lining up for me (but obviously fix the former first).\r\n\r\nI'm
    impressed with your patience on this, getting one thing right before moving on
    to the next.\r\n\r\n(and jealous of the hanging space!)"
  created: '2009-01-28 02:02:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm glad the tapering clicked. Although I think you've lost some of the \"butch\"
    character of where you used to be. Maybe pull the tapering back just a bit? On
    the other hand, other glyphs have a fair amount of modulation too now. Dunno.
    Is the modulation ruining things? I'm not sure, but I think maybe the old monoline
    look had more character (although it was less versatile/readable).\r\n\r\n> I
    am shooting for 8\u201310 with this\r\n\r\nGreat - go for it. But you need more
    weight.\r\n\r\nBTW, 600dpi is indeed misleading (especially for smaller\r\nsizes)
    but if you get a 1200dpi printer you're 90% there.\r\n\r\nThe \"q\": love it.\r\nThe
    \"u\": don't sweat it - do your thing.\r\n\r\nLooking at the PDF:\r\n- Some of
    your ball terminals are malformed (like the \"r\").\r\n- I'd make the \"g\" narrower,
    and pull in the rightward bulge of the descender. And that ear isn't working.
    \ :-(\r\n- The dot of the \"j\" is slightly right.\r\n- The spine of the \"s\"
    is bumpy and unorthodox. I would go traditional and have the most weight towards
    the middle.\r\n- The \"t\": the head is confused, and the bottom curl needs work.\r\n-
    The \"w\": you need more weight in the middle \"v\".\r\n- I think the \"x\" has
    too much stroke contrast.\r\n\r\nKeep at it - this is going to end well!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-28 06:49:45'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thanks for your feed-back, Craig & Hrant!\r\n\r\nRegarding the tapers: I'm
    glad I put them in, but I might be overdoing that. \r\nAs well as this:\r\n\"<em>Is
    the modulation ruining things?</em>\"\r\nI hope not. Though I've been wondering
    too.\r\nBut while I'm working out the weight, I'll try out different degrees of
    modulation \r\nas well. I guess I will eventually have to make a decision to push
    either practicality at the expense of character, or the other way round. (I'm
    slowly beginning to understand your <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/50153?page=1\">statement</a>,
    Hrant, a few months ago that \"trying to make a font some sort of 'ultimate' always
    ends in tears.\")\r\n\r\nI'm glad nobody has objected to the narrower proportions
    (yet). They do seem to read better (plus make it a *hint* less *impossible* to
    make certain glyphs work, which is also nice).\r\n\r\nI'll be working on the details
    / individual glyphs both of you mentioned, most of which is touching me right
    where it hurts :-). I'm quite uncomfortable with all those diagonals (vwxyz),
    the \"s\" is driving me nuts from a technical perspective \r\n(I was actually
    trying to make the spine heaviest in the middle!), and the \"t\" is just confusing
    me \u2013 I can't seem to figure out what matters in that strange little letter,
    & how it relates to others (most significantly the top).\r\n\r\nThe ball of the
    \"r\" was sort of an experiment to make it clog less at smaller sizes (well, and
    on my printer) and still have it be kind of pronounced &ndash; though I admit
    it looks quite silly.&nbsp;&nbsp;:-)\r\n\r\n<em>\"I\u2019m impressed with your
    patience on this, getting one thing right before moving on to the next.\"</em>\r\nCraig,
    that ain't patience. But you may call me obsessive, or a control freak. \r\nBoth
    of which feel rather futile in the face of this!\r\n\r\nHanging space: Magnetic
    wall paint rocks for flexibility. It's not like Ernestine is always allowed to
    take up <em>all</em> that space.&nbsp;&nbsp;;-)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-01-28 14:46:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nina, this might be counter to your nature, but it's a technique that I've
    used and heard of others using: at a certain point it might be highly fruitful
    to put this away, for at least a month but probably longer, and then pick it up
    again; you might be surprised at how much more objectively and effectively you
    will then approach the various issues. The design process becomes less emotional
    and more \"big-picture\"; it becomes almost like critiquing somebody else's work
    (which for me at least is easier to get right).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-28 15:10:21'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Hell yeah that's counter to my nature, Hrant.&nbsp;&nbsp;<:-{\r\nThough part
    of me is thinking it's wise advice\u2026\r\n\r\nClasses (& thus, guided project
    work) are resuming in 3 weeks. I'll have to see \r\nhow I deal with that."
  created: '2009-01-28 18:17:09'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "A hiatus has been a good idea (thank you, Hrant). And it's not over.\r\n\r\nLittle
    interim musing: I'm beginning to think I've tried to cram too much into this one
    (and first) font. Too many ideas \u2013 and concepts too complex, of which I'm
    honestly just beginning to grasp some nebulous contours.\r\nThinking about going
    back to more basic principles, I can see that modulation die. Mostly because I
    don't truly understand modulation. And I can't help feeling like an impostor when
    I try to make this font speak in tones that aren't mine, or that I can't master,
    or that I don't understand. In fact, being on a Beginner's Steep Learning Curve
    makes this process pretty crazy \u2013 many ideas that give me the warm buzz of
    accomplishment one week seem plainly deficient the next.\r\n\r\nIt'll be at least
    two weeks until I'll resume work on this! \r\nIn a way, I can't wait; but I will.
    :-)"
  created: '2009-02-06 21:32:30'
- author:
    name: Yehan
    picture: 112677
  body: I really like it. Reminds me a little of a wide archer (I swear its the ball
    terminals) but it's got a nice open feel to it. Keep going!
  created: '2009-02-09 08:41:42'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thanks, Yehan. Glad you like it (which incarnation?).\r\nArcher: In the beginning
    I was looking at it a lot, though not so much anymore. But I guess the combination
    of slab serifs + ball terminals is more or less automatically reminiscent of Archer.\r\n\r\nThe
    show will go on soon-ish. I'm beginning to see more clearly where this can/should
    be going.&nbsp;&nbsp;:-)"
  created: '2009-02-13 09:10:02'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "So. Young Ernestine was a bit large, a bit butch, loud, and jolly; then she
    suddenly got a serious office job and ended up buying stiff waisted clothes she
    never really got comfortable in (and couldn't afford, either)\u2026 :-/\r\nFont
    psychology aside: A little temporal distance really seems to make v.2 look pretty
    cramped.\r\n\r\nThis time, before I spend forty hours cooking up an whole new
    alphabet, and derail somewhere along the way without noticing, I'd like to throw
    a few preliminary new glyphs out there that show the changes I've been thinking
    about. Those are mainly\r\n- making it monoline\r\n- making it heavier (& with
    thicker serifs too)\r\n- and a little bit wider again (but not so wide as to be
    uncomfortable at text sizes \u2013 still aiming for let's say 8\u201311 with this).\r\nThere
    is also a new attempt at a \"g\", and I must say I dig this one!\r\n- vertical
    metrics aren't quite sorted out yet.\r\n\r\nWhat do you guys think?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/honigmohn_5879.gif]"
  created: '2009-02-15 23:29:13'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: I like the direction it's going. I think the new g is a vast improvement over
    the old one. However (and you knew that was coming), I'm not sure I like the terminal
    of the tail. honim look very good.
  created: '2009-02-16 01:54:26'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Glad to hear that, Steve! \r\nAbout the terminal of the \"g\": Can you say
    if you wonder about the ball terminal per se,* or its execution?\r\n* Which looks
    a bit lonely in this word, too, since it's the only one\u2026\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBy
    the way:\r\n<em>\"Nina, are you sure this is your first font?\"</em>\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/54857\r\n:-["
  created: '2009-02-16 10:32:39'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: Just throwing this out there; have you considered making a fixed-width version
    of this? I can see it having huge potential as a Courier-replacement. Which is
    to say that I love the design and see it in a universally-useful light.
  created: '2009-02-16 14:38:50'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: 'I''m not entirely certain. What does you c look like? '
  created: '2009-02-16 14:49:54'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Steve, that \"honigm\" up there is all I have of the new version yet (and
    an \"l\"). But I was expecting to keep the placement of the ball terminals pretty
    much the same as in previous versions, which would mean there would be balls on
    the descenders of \"g\", \"j\", and \"y\", as well as on the \"c\", the top of
    the \"s\", the \"r\", the arm of the \"k\" and the top of the \"f\".\r\n\r\nAlex,
    thanks! I hadn't thought about a monowidth; but I've heard quite a few comments
    that this has a \"nice typewriter feel\". I might give it a shot once this is
    finished. Though highest on the list is a small size cut, maybe a display cut,
    at least one additional weight, possibly italics\u2026 so it may be 2020 or so
    until I get to a monospaced version. ;-)"
  created: '2009-02-16 15:21:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nina, this is looking great. The color and vertical proportions* seem very
    good. And that \"g\" is da bomb! Definitely a keeper, with little need for an
    alternate. The only thing I <em>might</em> tweak is the ear: it seems possibly
    too close to the x-line half-serifs; I'd try making it higher.\r\n\r\n* Here you've
    moved from ~8 to 9-10 point size.\r\n\r\nI would give this warning however: you've
    moved pretty firmly into the \"contemporary\" sphere (even with that \"g\") whereas
    before it had a distinct and arguably nicely anachronistic flavor. This move will
    make the font more versatile, but also perhaps less memorable. Considering this
    is only your... second :-) outline font I actually think this is a very good move.
    You can revert to a more old-school version later - and in fact having the two
    (daughter and mother?) would make for a nice subtle contrast, the sort we don't
    have enough of in type.\r\n\r\nBTW, am I noticing that you've made the tittle
    a hair \"too\" dark? Is that\r\na Patria influence? :-)  Be prepared for the flack
    from other type designers.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-16 19:26:37'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thanks, Hrant! I'm very glad to hear you say that. Figuring out darkness
    and vertical proportions has seemed especially hard to figure out, so it's great
    to hear this may work. (There is no \"talus\" however. So I guess I should scale
    the whole thing down. :-/)\r\n\r\nI wasn't *consciously* trying to make it more
    contemporary-looking; that kind of happened, and I like it. But, I love your idea
    about the \"old\" and \"new\" sort of \"family\"! It's a pretty exciting thought
    to come back to this later and try to play a subtle variation with a slightly
    more \"historical\" feel. Though of course right now I'd have no idea how to go
    about it; that sort of subtlety is way beyond me. But I'll definitely keep this
    in mind for when I've done another twenty fonts or so. ;-)\r\n\r\n<em>\"you\u2019ve
    made the tittle a hair \u201Ctoo\u201D dark? Is that a Patria influence?\"</em>\r\nReally,
    would that be considered *too* dark? I realize it is rather large, but it looks
    good to me that way. Not sure if it's directly influenced by Patria \u2013 I've
    been partial to larger tittles for a while :-> \u2013 but Patria has certainly
    strengthened my conviction that they can look dam good.\r\nAnyway, I've been seeing
    a lot of Patria lately, so I won't be surprised to see some elements of it crop
    up in Ernestine. One thing that is consciously informed by Patria is the ear of
    the \"g\", although rather subtly so. (And I do see what you mean about its height.)\r\n\r\n<em>\"Be
    prepared for the flack from other type designers.\"</em>\r\nWith that \"q\" and
    that \"k\" (and maybe the \"a\"), I'm not expecting to be taken down over the
    tittle. What's the problem \u2013 does it just look bad to some, or is there one
    of those underlying minefields I'm not seeing?"
  created: '2009-02-16 20:32:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> There is no \u201Ctalus\u201D however.\r\n\r\nYou will most probably need
    some (although less now with the\r\nsmaller x-height). The amount depends a lot
    on your cap height,\r\nso figure that out first.\r\n\r\n> would that be considered
    *too* dark?\r\n\r\nYou'd have to show a PDF to be sure.\r\n\r\nBut as you might
    guess, in my book it <em>has</em> to look a hair too dark\r\nto the average type
    designer (if that means anything :-). When\r\na type designer casually points
    out Patria's, I smile on the inside.\r\n\r\n> I\u2019ve been partial to larger
    tittles for a while\r\n\r\nHmmm...\r\n(Then they say type is boring! ;-)\r\n\r\n>
    With that \u201Cq\u201D and that \u201Ck\u201D (and maybe the \u201Ca\u201D),\r\n>
    I\u2019m not expecting to be taken down over the tittle.\r\n\r\nGood point!\r\nAnd
    that \"g\" might nicely distract from <em>all</em> of those.\r\n\r\n> does it
    just look bad to some, or is there one\r\n> of those underlying minefields I\u2019m
    not seeing?\r\n\r\nIt's just another symptom of misguided Modernism, wanting\r\nto
    goddam \"harmonize\" everything. Most people don't really\r\ngrasp that information
    comes from contrast and nothing else.\r\nYou just have to keep everything under
    the radar of the <em>reader</em>.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-16 22:26:27'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Hrant,\r\n\r\nTalus: Good to know! In that case, I'll get back with that
    question once I have caps.\r\n\r\nBTW, I still think somebody should come up with
    good type-nerdy t-shirts involving tittles. Might attract a bit more attention
    to type design(ers). ;-)\r\n\r\n<em>\"It\u2019s just another symptom of misguided
    Modernism, wanting to goddam \u201Charmonize\u201D everything.\"</em>\r\nI've
    been wondering if this attitude might be furthered by the fact that many type
    designers see to come from graphic design (not entirely excluding myself there).
    Though that's still quite a half-baked theory.\r\n\r\n<em>\"You just have to keep
    everything under the radar of the reader.\"</em>\r\nWhich from my experience even
    Patria, which may look rather extreme to some of \"us\", does extremely well.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    about Ernestine: I'll work on those other letters and post a full alphabet with
    PDF in due time. Cheers!"
  created: '2009-02-17 00:04:35'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Actually, it's still going to be a little while until I can post a full alphabet
    (too much other work ahead), so:\r\n\r\n<em>\"You\u2019d have to show a PDF to
    be sure.\"</em>\r\n\r\nWhile this is still quite half-baked, I *am* curious about
    that tittle. Just if you have the time to take a look, Hrant \u2013 thanks. (:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.altaira.de/posted/ernestine_v3_tittle.pdf\r\n(No
    corrections in there yet, this corresponds to the version posted above.)"
  created: '2009-02-19 17:17:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Tittle: I'd make it a hair larger.\r\ng: I think the inside cusp between
    the bottom stroke and the ball should be abrupt, not smooth.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-19 17:40:19'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I think a large tittle befits a ball-serif font of this character.\r\nIs
    it a little clotted at the join of g's ear?\r\nThis new g does contemporize this
    font - I wonder if it's no longer an \"Ernestine\"..."
  created: '2009-02-19 17:53:00'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thanks guys.\r\n\r\nTittle: Craig, I think so too. \r\nI thought it was already
    on the largish side, and didn't want to make it completely indecent; but I'll
    gladly try making it a bit larger still!\r\n\r\n\"g\": Hrant, thanks for that!
    That little thing has been a difficult detail. Making it abrupt is an interesting
    idea; gonna try that.\r\nCraig: I haven't done anything really in the way of optical
    correction of the join yet \u2013 actually the shapes aren't even merged. You
    might see some overlap artifacts in the PDF.\r\n\r\n<em>\"This new g does contemporize
    this font - I wonder if it\u2019s no longer an \u201CErnestine\u201D...\"</em>\r\nInteresting.*
    Does \"Ernestine\" sound more old-fashioned than this looks? \r\n\r\n* I say that
    because the \"g\" is shamelessly influenced by the Heavy weight of Kabel, which
    after all is a pretty old design (though not quite as old as my original \"Industria\")."
  created: '2009-02-19 19:34:29'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Hi Nina\r\nYou seem to be doing very well on this so I don't have anything
    further to offer I'm afraid, but just wanted you to know I am following your developments
    and choices with interest and even excitement! Ernestine is looking very neat
    and good-humoured.\r\n\r\nIs your tittle a bit off to the right (optically)?"
  created: '2009-02-19 22:31:27'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "According to [[http://www.babynamewizard.com/voyager#prefix=ERNESTINE&ms=true&sw=f&exact=true|this
    cool site]] Ernestine peaked as a baby name in the 1920s, right when Kabel was
    developed and released.\r\n\r\nBut Kabel has never struck me as 1920s-looking.\r\n\r\nAt
    any rate, yes, I think this is losing its grandmotherliness. Now it's more like
    a hip young woman. (But one who still knits!)"
  created: '2009-02-19 22:49:42'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thank you, Bendy, for the encouragement! It's been a rocky but highly enjoyable
    road indeed.\r\n\r\n<em>\"Is your tittle a bit off to the right\"</em>\r\nI'll
    have a closer look.\r\n\r\nCraig,\r\n<em>\"According to this cool site Ernestine
    peaked as a baby name in the 1920s, right when Kabel was developed and released.\"</em>\r\nSee,
    they are cousins of sorts! Funny. Now I only need to find out who Patria is in
    that family. Possibly the godfather? And Archer & Caecilia the aunts? :->\r\n(They're
    all pretty young either in spirit or actual age or both, so I guess that works.
    Not sure who among them knits, though!)"
  created: '2009-02-19 23:07:47'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "[[http://www.worldknit.com/celebrityknitters.html#celeblist|In some circles,
    knitting is very glamourous, you know :)]]\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-19 23:27:11'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: Knit Hop in da Hood!
  created: '2009-02-20 02:46:59'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "So I knitted a new tittle and played around with the \"g\" a bit.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/honigm_2a_6201.gif]\r\n\r\n--\r\n(PDF
    here: http://altaira.de/posted/ernestine_honigmohn_2.pdf)\r\n\r\nThe tittle feels
    really indulgent now. I'll confess I like that; but I'm wondering if I'm overdoing
    it.\r\n\r\nI'm not quite sure about that ball on the \"g\". I'm thinking it may
    need to be larger, but then it starts seriously closing up the tail at smaller
    sizes, which I don't want it to do. Kind of reminds me of the \"a\". I might try
    making one without a ball \u2013 but in a way I don't want to give up on the few
    ball terminals that are left.\r\n\r\nBTW, feedback from a few of my type design
    class peeps today showed that the \"g\" <em>is</em> a love/hate glyph. I like
    that. I was beginning to worry this font was getting boring. :->"
  created: '2009-02-21 21:41:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I love the new \"g\" - don't change a thing! (For now... :-)\r\n\r\nThe tittle:
    nothing to worry about - I myself\r\nwould actually make it a bit larger still!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-21 22:18:31'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: 'I think it''s beautiful. Unlike Hrant, I wouldn''t make the tittle larger,
    but right not I don''t think it''s too big. '
  created: '2009-02-21 22:26:29'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>feedback from a few of my type design class peeps today showed that the
    \u201Cg\u201D is a love/hate glyph</em>\r\n\r\nI would keep developing both this
    one and the previous one (like the first one in the first post of this thread),
    and use one or the other as a stylistic alternate. Then everyone's happy!"
  created: '2009-02-21 22:55:08'
- author:
    name: Marcelo Soler
    picture: 115167
  body: "Hi, Nina!\r\nI wanted to express Ernestine had taken a nicer direction, if
    possible: she looks really great and very exciting.\r\nAbout the g, I'd keep it
    as is in the current pretty version, though I'd like to see how it looks with
    a larger ball, since optically it seems small a bit against, let's say, the c
    (it's a subjective appreciation, for sure).\r\nI assume you've not completely
    spaced it, otherwise the \"go\" kerning would need to be revised (below I read
    \"mig o\"):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/migo_4576.png]\r\nI'm [[http://typophile.com/node/54942|dealing
    with the g]] right now, and think it's amazing the synthesis you've achieved in
    yours.\r\nWho could say such a young lady is boring?\r\n\r\n<strong>MarS</strong>"
  created: '2009-02-21 23:05:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Actually, yes, I agree the ball should be larger.\r\nBut don't change anything
    else!  :->\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-21 23:13:23'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Wow. Thanks guys (-:\r\nI'm happy that this seems to be clicking!\r\n\r\nCraig,
    about the \"g\": I'm not sure I need everyone to find the \"g\" of their dreams
    in this font. Imagine Meta having an alternate \"g\". (Or does it? I don't have
    it.) Or Kabel! Those are basically defined by their \"g\"s, some people hate them,
    others love them. I think that's great.\r\nWhich doesn't mean I've decided against
    making an alternate. But I guess I don't think it's vital for the font.\r\n\r\nMarcelo,
    I was chuckling before when I realized we're both quite involved with the \"g\"
    right now. \r\nSpacing: There is none. It's horrid. I know I should at least have
    something like preliminary spacing, but I feel I need more glyphs first to work
    out the sidebearings.\r\n\r\n<em>\"though I\u2019d like to see how it looks with
    a larger ball, since optically it seems small a bit against, let\u2019s say, the
    c\"</em>\r\n? I don't have a current \"c\" yet. Are you comparing this to the
    old one up top?\r\n\r\n<em>Actually, yes, I agree the ball should be larger.\r\nBut
    don\u2019t change anything else! :-></em>\r\nHaha. I promise. I mean I promise
    I'll try. :-)"
  created: '2009-02-21 23:24:49'
- author:
    name: Marcelo Soler
    picture: 115167
  body: "<em>Are you comparing this to the old one up top?</em>\r\n\r\nOops, yes!\r\n\r\n<strong>MarS</strong>"
  created: '2009-02-21 23:51:19'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Bigger balls all around:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/honigm_3_4799.gif]\r\n\r\nPDF:
    http://altaira.de/posted/ernestine_honigmohn_3.pdf\r\n\r\nShe's getting quite
    yummy I think. Looking at that huge tittle, maybe the ball on the \"g\" could
    even be larger than this? So far it seems to read OK; but I do prefer that tail
    to remain quite open optically\u2026\r\n\r\n(Hrant: Haven't touched the \"g\",
    other than the terminal. <:-) )\r\n\r\nI'm looking forward to having time to work
    on the other glyphs. But that won't be until a week or so from now."
  created: '2009-02-22 16:06:13'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "I wouldn't make the ball terminals much bigger for text sizes. (But then
    again, I'm not a ball-terminal fan, so I'm probably not the best one to comment
    on that.) \r\n\r\nOne request: could you use non-food words? Every time I visit
    these critique sections, I get hungry. (Mmm, poppy seeds...) :-)"
  created: '2009-02-22 16:38:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think the tittle (not large at all - \"she's a good size\", as they say)
    and the terminal of the \"g\" are well-balanced. One thing I'm seeing though (perhaps
    a hold-over from a previous iteration) is that the bottom stroke of the \"g\"
    is getting a bit too thin close to the ball; you don't want it totally monoline
    since the ball add visual weight to it, but I think it needs to be a hair thicker
    (which might make the ball a bit larger too - but you have room for that).\r\n\r\nBTW,
    I just realized something: I don't think the \"m\" needs\r\nto be so narrow; it
    detracts from the character of the face.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-22 16:45:25'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Steve, haha! I actually wanted to do \"honigmond\"; but the \"d\" is still
    off getting its bowl polished. I'll try not to post while I'm eating though. ;-)\r\n\r\nThanks
    Hrant. There's definitely some weirdness where the ball terminal is connecting;
    the inner & outer contours seem disharmonious right next to it. On the other hand,
    you're right that when I do make it completely monoline it looks clogged. Will
    need to play with that some more. \r\n\"m\": Its proportions have carried over
    pretty much from previous iterations, and to be honest I haven't given them too
    much thought yet. So that's on the list too \u2013 thanks.\r\n\r\nBy the way,
    every time I look at that \"i\", the tittle seems to be off to one side, but it's
    never the same side twice. Dunno."
  created: '2009-02-22 16:55:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it\u2019s never the same side twice. \r\n\r\nAs I said in another thread
    recently, that means it's fine! It's you.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-22 17:22:19'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: I think I'd move it left a tiddly fraction; the centre of gravity of the stem
    is a bit left because of the serifs. But that could just be me :>
  created: '2009-02-22 17:44:06'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "<cite>the centre of gravity of the stem is a bit left because of the serifs</cite>\r\n\r\nWhich
    is why I think it's perfectly placed. I think the tittle should be ever so slightly
    to the right of center."
  created: '2009-02-22 17:49:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Steve, is that because of the \"f\", or something more subtle?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-22 18:23:32'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I just tried this again: when I move it left by one (!) unit, it looks off
    to the left \r\nto me every time I look at it. So I guess I'll leave it where
    it is! (Sorry Hrant, seems it didn't register you just said this someplace else.)"
  created: '2009-02-22 18:28:30'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "<cite>Steve, is that because of the \u201Cf\u201D, or something more subtle?</cite>\r\n\r\nMy
    eyes prefer it that way :-) All of the text faces I really like seem to have the
    tittle just slightly to the right of optical center, so I don't think I'm alone.
    (Jenson's is quite far to the right.)\r\n\r\nI think it's part of a broader pattern
    of asymmetry in the Latin alphabet, but I want to let my theory bake a bit more
    before I present it in public."
  created: '2009-02-22 21:29:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Jenson\u2019s is quite far to the right.\r\n\r\nBut at least in that case
    it's most probably to make room for the massive beak of the \"f\". In digital
    -especially with OT now- that's far less of an issue.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-22 21:45:22'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Interesting. \r\nConversely, are there any good reasons for a far-left tittle
    placement, \r\nas in Adobe Caslon?"
  created: '2009-02-22 22:17:24'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: Hrant, absolutely (and the long s as well).
  created: '2009-02-22 22:21:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Far-left?! The only thing I can think of is replicating\r\nsome flawed historical
    model. Caslon for one was a slob.\r\n(The abattoir is humming!)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-22 23:37:26'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I think the right-trending dot also keeps things moving forward along the
    line. When printing, for example, I write the stem first, then the dot, then the
    following letter. As my hand approaches uniform motion along the line, the dot
    will likely be between the stem and the following letter. (By this I don't intend
    that type should be or always is an emulation of writing, but I think some of
    the dynamics are parallel.)
  created: '2009-02-23 01:00:59'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Handpicked. Late to the critique, but handpicked. Nicely done.
  created: '2009-02-26 05:09:29'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: ":->  Thanks!\r\n\r\nI'll continue soon\u2026 crazy busy this week."
  created: '2009-02-26 06:41:45'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Did some more work on the tail of the \"g\". I wonder if this is still too
    much tapering? I've been doing a lot of non-type work this week, and my eyes feel
    kind of rusty (ouch!). But I'm wanting to get that terminal to work before moving
    on to the \"c\", etc.\r\n\r\nSince the tail got heavier optically, I felt I had
    to strengthen the ear a little too. I'm not sure it doesn't still feel a bit too
    light though.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/going_4917.gif]\r\n--\r\n(PDF
    is up at http://www.altaira.de/posted/ernestine-g-4.pdf; due to popular request,
    this time [almost] without added foodstuffs! :-> )"
  created: '2009-03-01 22:04:42'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "That tail is definitely improved! If you're worried about the bottom counter
    closing up (it doesn't help that foot serifs like the n's in the above pic poke
    right into the gap), I think there is a little room to reduce the size of the
    top bowl - but on the other hand it looks pretty great as is!\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-01 22:44:48'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Thanks Craig! Actually the thing with the tail closing up doesn't seem to
    be as bad as I feared. Though I'm still caught up in trying to figure out the
    optimal settings of my fancy new printer; it's doing a lot of strange stuff to
    stem weights and such, so I actually can't judge text sizes that well at the moment
    :-(.
  created: '2009-03-01 22:51:50'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: g is looking very very cool :)
  created: '2009-03-01 22:56:51'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: ":-)  Thanks Ben!\r\n\r\nCraig: I just went through all possible options on
    my printer and think I've actually found a way to print 10pt text. So the tail
    looks OK, but you're right about the foot serifs sort of \"poking into\" the counterspace.
    I suspect this may be alleviated once I start working on spacing \u2013 the pokey
    serifs might be a bit too close to the \"g\" now."
  created: '2009-03-01 23:07:33'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "<cite> this time [almost] without added foodstuffs</cite>\r\n\r\nJust change
    the name of the typeface to Poppyseed! :-)\r\n\r\nI think the g is just a bit
    too tight near the terminal. The tail flows nicely, then makes a fist. "
  created: '2009-03-01 23:23:45'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Aha! What exactly does \"tight\" mean though \u2013 tapering too much, or
    not enough? \r\nI assume you mean the terminal starts too abruptly?\r\n\r\nBtw:
    I think the only thing that'd really make me consider a naming change would be
    a great new name that has a \"g\" in it. :->"
  created: '2009-03-01 23:31:57'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: '[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eglantine|Eglantine]]?'
  created: '2009-03-01 23:35:11'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Hm! \r\nIs it that pink and flowery though? Or thorny?\r\nAnd can anyone
    actually pronounce that?"
  created: '2009-03-01 23:40:20'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "Sorry, Bendy, [[http://www.dafont.com/eglantine.font|already done]]. \r\n\r\nBy
    tight, I mean not just the taper, but the flow. The bend doesn't quite work for
    me."
  created: '2009-03-01 23:42:29'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Ugh! Knew I should have checked first!
  created: '2009-03-01 23:44:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I actually think it's all nicely balanced,\r\nbut maybe there's something
    I'm not seeing.\r\n\r\n> The tail flows nicely, then makes a fist.\r\n\r\n<em>Now</em>
    I know what it reminds me of: Popeye!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-02 01:42:15'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/popeye_6112.gif]\r\n\r\nIf you want to
    go with the knitting idea, \"Selvage\" (or \"Selvedge\") is a [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Selvage_(knitting)|knitting
    term]] that could work as a name. (Too close to \"salvage\" or \"savage\" perhaps.)"
  created: '2009-03-02 04:30:24'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<:-D\r\nThat'd explain why it seemed to want more weight close to the fist!\r\n\r\nCraig,
    I'm not that fond of knitting after all. \r\nOf course now I could call it Spinach!
    But I think Ernestine will be fine. :->"
  created: '2009-03-02 06:18:19'
- author:
    name: Marcelo Soler
    picture: 115167
  body: "Perhaps... Geraldine?\r\n(Nothing to do with Geraldine Wade, from Microsoft,
    of course!)\r\n\r\n<strong>MarS</strong>"
  created: '2009-03-02 10:18:21'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Hey, not bad. But that's a capital "G". I don't know yet if that's gonna be
    a cool glyph ;-)
  created: '2009-03-02 10:57:55'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Evangeline.
  created: '2009-03-02 12:34:27'
- author:
    name: Marcelo Soler
    picture: 115167
  body: "Nice, Craig!\r\n<strong>MarS</strong>"
  created: '2009-03-02 14:42:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The reason I still like \"Ernestine\" is because\r\nit evokes a bygone sincerity,
    something both\r\nappropriate to this design as well as timely in\r\nour society.\r\n\r\nYou
    can't beat a slab serif when it comes\r\nto saying \"let me tell you how it really
    is\".\r\nLeonard Cohen is a slab - although not as\r\nwide as this design.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-02 16:34:59'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Evangeline is nice, but sounds too Christian for me. I'd see an Evangeline
    as chanting stuff and floating mid-air, rather than being honest and down-to-earth.
    \r\n\r\n\"Sincerity\" is a good word, Hrant \u2013 I agree pretty much completely
    with your perspective. \r\nI like \"Ernestine\" because while the name is feminine,
    it derives more or less directly from \"earnest\". Both of those sides seem to
    match the font well \u2013 in relative terms; I think it <em>is</em> more of a
    \"she\" than a \"he\", although definitely not \"girly\" \u2013 and yes it's meant
    to be serious in a, well, earnest kind of way, which doesn't mean it can't be
    quirky here and there and have its own mind about things. It's just not whimsical.\r\nPlus,
    I like the \"bridge\" between the old-fashioned name and the newish design.\r\n(And
    I can definitely see Leonard Cohen as a slab. Just not Archer. :-D )\r\n\r\nActually,
    the more I think of it, I think I'm quite married to the name. Guess I'll just
    have to live without a \"g\" in there! But questioning it was worth it. "
  created: '2009-03-02 16:54:08'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I suppose you could call it Ernestine Re<strong>g</strong>ular! :-)
  created: '2009-03-02 18:06:57'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: ":-D  \r\nGreat point!"
  created: '2009-03-02 18:19:59'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: For me, the name [[http://www.tvacres.com/comm_ernestine.htm|Ernestine]] calls
    to mind Lily Tomlin's routine on TV when I was a kid.
  created: '2009-03-02 18:31:52'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "So taking my baby steps, I've been working on the \"m\" (which I think benefits
    from being wider \u2013 is it a bit too wide now though?) and started working
    out the \"a\", which is still rather wonky \u2013 mainly trying to figure out
    the overall proportions, the amount of tapering on the hood, and such. My main
    problem being, I don't want to make it look desperate to be as wide as it can.
    It may also be too dark right now. Any opinions?\r\n\r\n(This is really just a
    mini-update; I'm hoping to be able to spend more time on this later this week.
    But the bug bit me NOW. :-) )\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/naming_3449.gif]\r\n(PDF:
    http://www.altaira.de/posted/ernestine-a-m.pdf )\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nSteve: Now there's
    a cultural association I completely missed. :-)"
  created: '2009-03-02 23:17:36'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: If you really want the a to be that wide, you can pull back a little on the
    top while leaving the bowl wide.
  created: '2009-03-02 23:43:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think you might even try a wider \"m\".\r\n\r\nIn the \"a\" I like the
    lateral relationship between the top and the bowl, but I would make the whole
    thing a bit narrower and the bowl a bit shorter. Also, I would shear the top terminal
    perpendicular, not at an angle; if you can match the angle with the inside of
    the foot serif, that would be a bonus.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-03 01:38:24'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thanks for your feed-back guys! Will try a slightly narrower \"a\" (and maybe
    a wider \"m\").\r\n\r\nHrant, when you say to make the bowl of the \"a\" shorter,
    do you mean flatter (vertically)?"
  created: '2009-03-03 06:04:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, flatter vertically, but if/when you make it\r\nnarrower too the aspect
    needn't change too much.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-03 06:15:35'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Gotcha! Cheers.
  created: '2009-03-03 06:27:27'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Medium-sized update.\r\n\r\nFirst, more work on the \"a\" and \"m\":\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/naming-a-m_5056.gif]\r\nI
    think I like the new widths/proportions, although I'm not sure the new \"a\" isn't
    disappearing a bit between all those wide glyphs. That'll surely be easier to
    judge once I have things like the \"s\", \"f\", and \"t\".\r\n\r\nBtw, going back
    to Industria, I realized I really like the foot terminal on its \"a\":\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/industria-a-terminal_5790.jpg]\r\n\u2026so
    I spent some time playing around with an alternate \"a\" that would have a \"curved\"
    terminal that would still be perceived as serifed (kind of like in Patria); but
    I couldn't get that to work with the overall serif size/weight. And a plain curve,
    like say in National, seemed too soft and cute in this context. I guess the idea
    might be moot in a slab (and it's not like I actively dislike the current foot
    serif on the \"a\").\r\n\r\nWhat I did do was transfer the more slanted inside
    angle of the \"a\" foot serif to the top-left of \"m\" and \"n\",* which I think
    works well \u2013 this way I need to taper the curves less as they're approaching
    the join, which helps the monoline look.\r\n* You can see that in the topmost
    image of this post, though only in the \"m\".\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nAlso, I have a
    first \"postable\" version of \"b\"/\"d\"/\"p\"/\"q\": \r\n(Please ignore the
    ugly \"u\", it's not supposed to be here yet.)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ernestine-bdpq1_4331.gif]\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nPDF
    with the current state of things: \r\nhttp://www.altaira.de/posted/ernestine_090306.pdf\r\n(I'll
    attach an \"official\" one to the top of this thread once this third incarnation
    of Ernestine has a complete lc alphabet.)\r\n\r\nAny comments muchly welcome of
    course. :-)"
  created: '2009-03-06 23:46:51'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "FWIW I think you may have narrowed the 'a' a touch too much.\r\n\r\nNew letters
    look great. The serifless bowls of 'b' and 'q' work well with your 'g' in style,
    I think.\r\n\r\nI like the reasoning behind the new angles on the insides of those
    serifs. Perhaps the angle could be hair more upright; you're approaching a thinness
    that makes those serifs look like they could break off. Or alternatively perhaps
    keeping the angle but just sliding that line a touch away from the serif (of course
    it has to align well with the stem on the other side of the join).\r\n\r\nSalt
    to taste!"
  created: '2009-03-07 00:26:48'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "100th post to this thread, Craig! You should win a coffee mug (or a salt
    shaker?) (-:\r\n\r\nYeah, I wonder about that \"a\". Type design seems to be something
    I can only do in brief and somewhat isolated spurts \u2013 having looked at this
    for a few continuous hours, I can't really tell what's up with the \"a\". But
    I did narrow it quite a lot, so that may well have been too much. Will try some
    variations on that.\r\n\r\nI like the angled serifs but see your point about them
    \"breaking off\"; this is also an obvious (and visible) breach of the \"monoline\"
    premise, but I must say I'm somewhat intrigued by that. Will play around with
    them some more!\r\n\r\nI wonder if the \"d\" is too light. But I still don't trust
    my new printer\u2026"
  created: '2009-03-07 00:37:56'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "The bowl of the a could indeed stand to be a bit wider. The d doesn't look
    too light to me at this point.\r\n\r\nBTW, Moaning Dingo is a killer name for
    a typeface! (Quail Blip isn't bad either.) "
  created: '2009-03-07 00:52:09'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Yeah &ndash; I'll definitely keep track of these for whenever I do a wild
    display face! ;-)\r\n\r\nAnd thanks for your feed-back Steve. Looks like the \"a\"
    is getting reconstructive surgery tomorrow!"
  created: '2009-03-07 01:13:23'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: ('d''s weight looks fine to me, too)
  created: '2009-03-07 02:04:24'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Here's an intermediate-width \"a\" (I agree this looks a lot more harmonious
    \u2013 thanks!). \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ernestine_dopamin_6156.gif]\r\n--\r\n\r\nI've
    also pulled the inside angle of these head serifs back up a tiny bit. Better?\r\n(Though
    I realize those weights of the curves to the east of the respective joins are
    still a bit, uh, inconsistent\u2026)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ernestine-mnp_6293.gif]\r\n\r\nPDF:
    http://www.altaira.de/posted/ernestine_090307.pdf"
  created: '2009-03-07 14:03:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think you had indeed gone too far with narrowing the \"a\" in your first
    post of 3/6, but the most recent one looks great. About the b/d/p/q: it seems
    like the \"p\" is missing the \"movement\" present in the others; the \"q\" is
    nicely pendulous (the \"d\" seems close, but might need a flatter top) and the
    \"b\" is nicely perky, while the \"p\" seems totally straight (even though it
    might not be mathematically).\r\n\r\nRevisiting the \"i\": I think you should
    raise the tittle. It depends on the \"t\" though (as well as the cap height -
    concerning which I'm getting a strong vibe that your caps should be short and
    unusually wide).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-08 05:21:35'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thanks for addressing the \"movement\" in the bowls. I was wondering if that
    was showing (or working, rather). I can see the \"p\" does it least (mathematically,
    a deviation from say the \"o\" is definitely there); and the \"d\" I've been struggling
    with most out of these &ndash; it seems to get too droopy and sad really easily.
    I'll work on those some more.\r\n\r\n<em>\"I\u2019m getting a strong vibe that
    your caps should be short and unusually wide\"</em>\r\nHa. Interesting! I was
    just thinking about what my caps might look like yesterday, and caught myself
    wondering about making them rather short (which would probably require them to
    be quite wide). Wouldn't hurt for German I guess. :-)\r\n\r\nI'll hold off on
    moving that tittle until I know more\u2026 (so many variables in this!)"
  created: '2009-03-08 08:53:42'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>I\u2019ve also pulled the inside angle of these head serifs back up a
    tiny bit. Better?</em>\r\n\r\nI would still add weight, probably by moving that
    line rightward a bit. As is, the head serif looks a bit like a flag on a pole,
    rather than sharing the slabby solidity of the other serifs. But again, this may
    just be me!"
  created: '2009-03-08 11:56:52'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: I agree with Craig on the serifs, and with the notion of shorter caps. But
    don't make them <em>too</em> wide.
  created: '2009-03-08 16:30:37'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Well, I don't even have half of the lowercase so far, so I guess there's
    still time to incubate those caps. To be honest, spending very serious thought
    on them now feels a bit like overcharging my brain with uncertainties/variables.
    :-]\r\n\r\nCraig, your point about solidity is interesting &ndash; I do see what
    you mean.\r\nI wonder, does the \"p\" work better for you than the \"m\" and \"n\"?
    That join is higher, so there is more black to hold the serif together with the
    rest of the glyph."
  created: '2009-03-08 16:47:19'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: I don't think it's so much the join as the angle of the line. (For me, that
    is.) I would try to echo the angle of the foot serif by bringing the apex to the
    right.
  created: '2009-03-08 17:37:45'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Aha! Do you mean the angle on the foot serif on the \"a\" and \"d\"? If so,
    that angle should actually roughly correspond to the m/n/p (although the latter
    is a bit steeper, at least mathematically). I'll have a closer look at it.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    I'm thinking the x-line serifs may be too heavy overall. Adding that to the list."
  created: '2009-03-08 18:38:49'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Here's an update!\r\n\r\nFirst, revised bowls:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ernestine_bdpq_4585.gif]\r\n\r\nSecond,
    revised x-line serifs (actually, quite a bit of mini-tweakage done to serifs in
    general, so see PDF linked to below).\r\n\r\nThird, new glyphs:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ernestine_ceju_4080.gif]\r\n\"e\":
    Might be a notch too wide?\r\n\"j\": I do think that descender needs more work,
    but I'm not sure how to do it. I don't want to make it too wide, but I'm not sure
    it doesn't look cramped.\r\n\"u\": I wonder if anyone notices the funny thing
    I did to this.\r\n-\r\nSo this is what I have so far, in an ugly gif:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ernestine-glyphs-090310_4450.gif]\r\n\r\nOverall,
    I'm beginning to wonder if my straight stems are heavier than the rounds.\r\n\r\nCurrent
    PDF: http://www.altaira.de/posted/ernestine_090310.pdf"
  created: '2009-03-10 23:37:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "bdpq: Nice!\r\n\r\ne: What's a \"notch\"? In my terminology I'd say it's
    \"slightly\" too wide.  :-)\r\nBTW, are you pulling a Patria with that huge eye?\r\n\r\nj:
    It just looks heavy somehow.\r\n\r\nu: I ain't seein' nothin'.\r\n\r\n> I\u2019m
    beginning to wonder if my straight\r\n> stems are heavier than the rounds.\r\n\r\nYes
    actually.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-11 00:05:13'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Hmm\u2026 a notch is definitely more than a hair. \r\nActually, it's probably
    a hair more than a bit.&nbsp;&nbsp;:-) \r\n\r\n<em>\"BTW, are you pulling a Patria\u2026\"</em>\r\nHuh,
    not consciously, though I opened Patria at least five times again tonight (but
    mostly related to the \"j\"), so it's creeping deeper into my brain. Come to think
    of it, most of the time I can't really tell how much of Ernestine is influenced
    by which other fonts. Like the \"a\": I only <em>consciously</em> realized I love
    Patria's sans-top-terminal \"a\" after I decided to make mine \"weak\" on top;
    but it's still quite likely that Patria's \"a\" somehow registered with me previously.\r\nOut
    of curiosity, for you, is it more good, or worrying, or just weird to wonder how
    much of Patria is in this? \r\n\r\n<em>\"\u2026with that huge eye?\"</em>\r\nHm,
    I was trying to make it match the bowl of the \"a\". \r\nActually, I was mostly
    thinking I was pulling a (slight) Ezzo on the \"e\", in the way it curves out
    and up on the right side.\r\n\r\n<em>\"u: I ain\u2019t seein\u2019 nothin\u2019.\"</em>\r\nGood.&nbsp;&nbsp;:-)\r\n\r\nGonna
    look at the weight on those rounds. Or the straights."
  created: '2009-03-11 00:33:16'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "[Edit:] Actually, I'm quite sad that most of the features I consciously love
    in Patria just don't seem to work in Ernestine. Like the foot terminal on the
    \"a\" mentioned above (and the \"u\" and \"q\"), and the tail of the \"g\" (although
    I do love mine too), and the right-side angle of the beak of the \"r\", and the
    weight/serif size ratio on the leg of the \"k\" as well as the serif treatment
    on the \"x\".\r\nSo I guess the influence really is more subliminal; or in other
    details. But it's definitely there in some form."
  created: '2009-03-11 01:11:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I can\u2019t really tell how much of Ernestine\r\n> is influenced by which
    other fonts.\r\n\r\nI think that's ideal. As long as that's \"font<strong>s</strong>\",
    plural, for two reasons: the more numerous your influences the better your results;
    and you're less likely to offend a single source's author. In my case however
    the latter does not apply at all - to me it's mostly very flattering.\r\n\r\nFWIW,
    some people say \"Hey, Cheltenham!\" when they see Patria's caps. The first time
    I heard that I was taken aback - but I shouldn't have been: although I didn't
    reference ol' Chelt consciously, it is in fact one of the fonts I fell in love
    with early on (although now I've mostly moved on).\r\n\r\nThat Ezzo \"e\" style
    is quite nice - and nothing like Patria's BTW: my \"e\" has a very hard nose,
    with a totally straight vertical segment at the tip - I got that (partly) from
    Jens Gehlhaar (who once produced an extreme incarnation of that structure).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-11 01:31:13'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Yes, definitely \"fonts\", plural. FWIW, these are the most important fonts
    I turn to repeatedly while making this (though some of them only via samples):
    Archer (though not so much anymore), Caecilia, a bit of Officina, and (lately)
    Oranda; a bit of Swift, and Rocky; Patria; Legato (mostly to remind me not to
    forget the white); Kabel; and Ezzo has been creeping in too. I probably forgot
    a few.\r\nPlus, there's a definite influence from typewriter fonts, although I
    don't usually look at these actively. But I originally learned to read and write
    with a mechanical typewriter, so that stuff is about as deeply rooted in my system
    as it gets. (-:"
  created: '2009-03-11 10:00:11'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">\u201Cu\u201D: I wonder if anyone notices the funny thing I did to this.\r\n\r\nIs
    it the left stem being off-vertical? \r\n\r\nThis is looking fantastic Nina! \r\n\r\nI
    agree the stems look a fraction too dark for the bowls. I think j only needs a
    bit more work on the curve, perhaps a little bit of a wider base to open up the
    darkness there.\r\n\r\nDoes h look slightly too wide?\r\n\r\nI'm looking forward
    to seeing the other letters. Especially s!"
  created: '2009-03-11 10:17:51'
- author:
    name: Marcelo Soler
    picture: 115167
  body: "<strong>Nina:</strong>\r\n\r\n<em>Gonna look at the weight on those rounds.
    Or the straights.</em>\r\nIn a fleeting glimpse, it's quickly noticeable, say,
    in your \"d\", that the width of the stem and the top serif apparent weight are
    optically  higher than those of the bowl, at least for my \"senior\" vision. Again,
    in your pleasant hard-worked \"a\", straights are heavier than rounds (always
    talking on their \u2013being redundant\u2013 vertical width). Actually, the stress
    in the bowl is negative (in red) respect to the stem.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ernes_4012.png]\r\n\r\n\r\n<em>\u201Cj\u201D:
    I do think that descender needs more work, but I\u2019m not sure how to do it.</em>\r\nProbably
    it needs just a little more air to let the ball \"float\" more freely \u2013I
    think of the nice way you solved the end of the loop of your \"g\", or the opposite
    in your \"c\".\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ernes1_6410.png]\r\n\r\n\r\n<em>\u201Cu\u201D:
    I wonder if anyone notices the funny thing I did to this.</em>\r\nAs Hrant says,
    I see nothing, except for the not exactly vertical left stem (Adobe's PostScript
    will hate you ;-) ). The only thing that seems odd a bit \u2013depending on how
    much I put my eyes on \"her\"\u2013 is a slightly shortness in the right top serif,
    that mathematically is not.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ernes2_5367.png]\r\n\r\nThere
    is something disturbing for me in your \"e\", but I'm not sure if I'm right \u2013<em>I'm
    not sure I'm not sure</em> :-) \u2013, perhaps some flatness in the tail (maybe
    I like too much your \"c\"):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ernes3_4370.png]\r\n\r\nIs
    the \"h\" wide a little?\r\n\r\n<strong>MarS</strong>"
  created: '2009-03-11 10:35:53'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Wow, lots of input! Thanks guys.\r\n\r\n\"u\": Yeah, what I meant is the
    left side being off-vertical by like 2 units. Kind of an act of desperation \u2013
    that side kept optically slanting out, until I physically slanted it in. Does
    it work? Oh, and Marcelo, why will PS hate me for that? Hinting stuff?\r\nBtw,
    the right-side serif is slightly longer than the left, but I guess it may need
    more!\r\n\r\n\"j\": I like the idea of \"giving it a bit more air\". I'll try
    that.\r\n\r\n\"e\": Marcelo, that looks quite good! I had a variant with a less-flat
    bottom, but couldn't really get it to work nicely &ndash; it seemed to close up
    too much. I'll play around with this some more.\r\n\r\n\"h\": I think, I think,
    I agree! But I'm stumped as to why it should be looking wide. The \"n\" isn't,
    is it?\r\n\r\nWeights: I'll need some time to figure this out. It'd be a lot easier
    obviously to reduce weight on the straights than to add some on the rounds, but
    I don't want to make it too light overall.\r\n\r\n<em>\"I\u2019m looking forward
    to seeing the other letters. Especially s!\"</em>\r\nUh\u2026 me too. :->"
  created: '2009-03-11 10:57:51'
- author:
    name: Marcelo Soler
    picture: 115167
  body: "When I saw your first entry, I thought Ernestine was a beautiful hit. Nevertheless,
    there was a lot of space for improvement I'd never imagined then. Definitely,
    don't touch the width of your straights.\r\n\r\n<em>Marcelo, why will PS hate
    me for that?</em>\r\nJust kidding. That's coz the way PostScript manages printing:
    when near to vertical or horizontal, but not exactly, the interpreter has to make
    a lot of decisions about what to do, that is, if inking or not; the digital world
    is discrete, while the analogous is not; aliansing is the gap where noise comes
    in. Nevermind. Programmers must work for human \u2013not machine\u2013 efficiency.
    As the German aircraft designer Willy Messerschmidt used to  say: <em>\"You can
    have any combination of features the Air Ministry desires, so long as you do not
    also require that the resulting airplane fly\"</em>. Nevermind. It makes me remind
    the hateful discussion with that guy of the iPhone \u2013he would surely uppercase
    the \"i\"\u2013 and his ego.\r\n\r\n<em>The \u201Cn\u201D isn\u2019t, is it?</em>\r\nNo,
    it's not. BTW, time ago I posted <strong>[[http://typophile.com/node/54406|an
    uncommented log]]</strong> (not in the proper place) about some concerns you introduced
    in my mind on that matter. Still have a lot of unanswered questions. \r\n\r\nBen
    expresses my anxiety quite well 8-D .\r\n\r\n<strong>MarS</strong>"
  created: '2009-03-11 11:40:29'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Uh, sorry Marcelo, I sure as hell didn't want to remind you of that thread!\r\nI
    don't really care if PostScript is swearing at Ernestine internally :-) &ndash;
    I was just wondering if I was setting myself (OK, the \"u\") up for a lot of (printing)
    problems by going this route with that stem.\r\n\r\nI remember reading your \"hmn\"
    post &ndash; left me impressed, and stumped. It's interesting to look at it again
    now and see some of those fonts actually have sligthly differing widths between
    the \"h\" and \"n\"\u2026 that's good to see."
  created: '2009-03-11 12:00:49'
- author:
    name: Marcelo Soler
    picture: 115167
  body: "<em>I was just wondering if I was setting myself (OK, the \u201Cu\u201D)
    up for a lot of (printing) problems by going this route with that stem.</em>\r\nOne
    easy way out is converting to curves (algorithms deal better with them):[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_6051.png]\r\nBut
    don't pay it much attention: women always deserve lots of gentleness \u2013Ernestine
    is certainly a beautiful one as well ;-)\u2013, so don't let PS bothers you.\r\n\r\n<strong>MarS</strong>"
  created: '2009-03-11 12:35:40'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "About the h and n, your question made me look back at the pdf rather than
    the image above. I think the disparity may be due to the neighbouring glyphs.
    In the image above the h is between g and i, which are both of course narrower,
    whilst the n is between m and o. The hs in the pdf seem more in tune with the
    other letters, so we'll have to wait for the whole alphabet in block text to see
    if it still looks fat.\r\n\r\nI like Marcelo's e, looks like it would go very
    nicely with your lovely g."
  created: '2009-03-11 17:47:52'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: I may be unduly worrying here but to my eye the curved descenders on j and
    g look shorter than the straight one on p.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/descenders_4098.jpg]
    Perhaps the unique way the ball terminals are floating calls for extra overshoot
    treatment? But, I must say, the proportions of the g and p are lovely in themselves.
    Maybe it's because you thinned the bottom curve on g but p has quite a dark serif
    down there? Or perhaps it's only me :)
  created: '2009-03-11 18:00:32'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"the curved descenders on j and g look shorter than the straight one
    on p.\"</em>\r\nThis is interesting &ndash; thanks! I'm still experimenting with
    the amount of undershoot the curvy descenders should get, and it's currently less
    than the overshoot zones at the x-line and the baseline (which I've also been
    figuring out more exactly recently), so it's quite possible it's not enough.\r\nThe
    problem is, like you said too, both the length of the straight ones and that of
    the curved ones looks good to me when seen in isolation. :-|\r\nWill play around
    a bit and try and make them line up better.\r\n\r\nAlso, interesting point about
    the \"h\"/\"n\" width \"illusion\". I might just hold off on actually changing
    the \"h\" until the rest of the lowercase is born."
  created: '2009-03-11 18:15:09'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "It might be a matter of enlarging the whole glyph g, fractionally, to preserve
    the proportions, then getting the strokes the right weight, or the other way round
    with the p.\r\n\r\nI suspect the non-baseline sitting g-bowl could be playing
    subtle tricks on the eye in this equation too.\r\n\r\nWhat do the others think?"
  created: '2009-03-11 18:47:11'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>I suspect the non-baseline sitting g-bowl could be playing subtle tricks
    on the eye in this equation too.</em> \r\nThat's what I was going to say.\r\n\r\nc
    - does the top curl around too far before terminating?\r\nj - is indeed cramped
    looking\r\ne - I wasn't sure at first glance (too eager?) but I've decided I really
    like it. The large counter works great with the flavor of the font that's emerging.\r\n\r\nPersonally
    I don't really like the serif-lightening you're doing - foot serif of d and head
    serif of p in particular look wimpy to me now, at large sizes anyway. But that
    one inside line we were talking about before looks great to me now.\r\n\r\nand
    your specimen text is very entertaining!"
  created: '2009-03-11 21:39:31'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thanks Craig.\r\n<em>\"c - does the top curl around too far before terminating?\"</em>\r\nI
    don't think I get this. :-(\r\nAre you wondering about raising the ball / flattening
    the top curve?\r\n\r\n<em>\"foot serif of d and head serif of p in particular
    look wimpy to me now, at large sizes anyway.\"</em>\r\nOh, not good. I agree that
    cutting off that corner makes them lighter optically, which probably isn't a good
    thing. Though I'm not sure they don't work okay in text. I should probably put
    a PDF together soon that has more text at intended text sizes\u2026 but that's
    still going to take a moment &ndash; it's pretty hard to think up anything resembling
    text with only 16 letters! ;-)"
  created: '2009-03-11 21:55:59'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Off-topic, sorry &ndash; I'm just curious. \r\nHrant,\r\n<em>\"my \u201Ce\u201D
    has a very hard nose, with a totally straight vertical segment at the tip - I
    got that (partly) from Jens Gehlhaar\"</em>\r\nMight there be some Avance influence
    in it as well? I just noticed this.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/avance-nose_5400.gif]\r\nErnestine
    update coming soonish too. :-)"
  created: '2009-03-12 13:10:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I've never looked at the outlines of Avance, and that segment is too small
    to see by eye. As you can check, in my \"e\" the segment is so tall even the inside
    counter has part of it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-12 13:34:57'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>I don\u2019t think I get this. :-(\r\nAre you wondering about raising
    the ball / flattening the top curve?</em>\r\n\r\nI'm looking at the vertical relation
    of the top and bottom ends.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/c_5678.gif]\r\n\r\nThe
    ball at top stretches over the bottom - it shares this with the 'e' (it's what
    I meant by \"eager\" in that context) but IMO it doesn't work as well in the 'c'.
    At first I was going to suggest rolling back the top end, but now I'm thinking
    to retain the roundness of the whole, it might work better to extend the lower
    end out (and probably up). I think it can be more different from the bottom of
    the 'e' (which, with its crossbar, is a different context) than it is, while still
    maintaining a genetic resemblance. "
  created: '2009-03-12 18:52:14'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Ahh, thanks for the explanation, Craig! Does it look top-heavy/overbite-y?
    Somehow when I moved the bottom out more, it looked strange (like it was having
    an underbite). I'll try again though, and maybe post some variants.\r\n\r\nCheers
    Hrant \u2013 I was just wondering. :-)"
  created: '2009-03-12 22:26:43'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "OK. I got immersed in the \"s\", and it has opened up a little can of worms.
    :-)\r\n(The changes discussed earlier are still coming up; just got quite caught
    up in this.)\r\n\r\nTo recap, the \"s\" I originally intended has one ball terminal
    on top and no ball/serif on the bottom (like #2 below). I like the concept, but
    it kept looking pretty lopsided/contorted/unnatural. So just to open up the field
    again, I did some thinking about my options; this is what I came up with:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/s-nebeneinander_6524.gif]\r\n\r\nOptions
    I'm definitely unhappy with in grey.\r\nAlso, I know the curves still need some
    work; but I'm hoping not to do the serious tweaking six times! So I hope these
    are worked out enough to tell if the respective concepts could work.\r\n\r\nSome
    notes/comments &ndash;\r\n<strong>1</strong>: Works, but probably looks too naked
    in the context of a slab serif font. Also makes me queasy when I think about the
    caps.\r\n<strong>2</strong>: Still my favorite, but still a bit awkward; I'm hoping
    it's only a matter of execution. Would nicely match the \"c\" while not clashing
    with the \"a\".\r\n<strong>3</strong>: Seems like the obvious solution, but looks
    too cute and too cluttered/busy to me. Also makes the weak-topped \"a\" look like
    a mistake.\r\n<strong>4</strong>: This struck me after looking at my old typewriter
    again &ndash; typewriter fonts tend to have ball terminals on things like the
    \"a\", \"c\", \"j\", &c., but outwards-pointing serifs on the \"s\" (as well as
    on many caps). I'm not at all happy with it, and don't think it works for Ernestine
    (see the \"q\"), but happy I tried it.\r\n<strong>5</strong>: Tried to combine
    #2 and #4 in an effort to make #2 less top-heavy. Looks like a zombie up close,
    and is probably too distracting in text, but was interesting to try.\r\n<strong>6</strong>:
    Variation on #4, moving the serifs inside the curves. I like this better than
    #4, and think it works okay, but doesn't click with too much in the font (except
    the \"z\", which isn't there yet).\r\n\r\nI'm not quite sure. I think, I think,
    I'd probably most like to continue on the #2 route; but I'm wondering if you guys
    think it's actually possible to make it look truly good and balanced (I'm finding
    it tough). Also, when I think ahead to the terminals on the caps, I'd probably
    feel most at ease with #2 or maybe #3; though I'm wondering about #6 as well,
    and any thoughts on the \"permissibleness\" of #1. \r\n\r\nSo here's a PDF with
    all 6 variants tested in a short paragraph at 9pt: \r\nhttp://www.altaira.de/posted/ernestine-s-6variants.pdf"
  created: '2009-03-15 02:12:12'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "My first impulse was to say 2 and 3 are the only legitimate options, but
    you may want to give redrawing #4 a chance. Move the top serif down and let it
    close the aperture a bit - so that the inside curve of the top counter almost
    hits vertical (becoming the edge of the vertical slab serif) and do the same for
    the bottom serif. (Don't know if that description made sense.) \r\n\r\nI never
    realized how many ball-terminal fonts don't use ball terminals on 's' until you
    made me go look!"
  created: '2009-03-15 03:34:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Considering your \"c\" is probably final, I think you have to use a ball
    form, not a serif form. So either #2, #3, or... ball on the bottom and nothing
    on top! Assuming it doesn't look too peculiar, it would: pull away from the \"c\"
    while still being related; nicely echo the \"a\" on top; and nicely echo the \"g\"
    on the bottom.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-15 04:15:40'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"I never realized how many ball-terminal fonts don\u2019t use ball terminals
    on \u2019s\u2019\"</em>\r\nSame here, Craig! I was pretty surprised. \r\n\r\nRe
    #4 above, here's the acs treatment in \r\n- my old typewriter (a 1958 <a href=\"http://mytypewriter.com/hermes3000of1958.aspx\">Hermes
    3000</a>), \r\n- Fine Line, a typewriter font from IBM,\r\n- Alphabet Centre Georges
    Pompidou (1976) by Frutiger, based on Fine Line.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/acs-examples_6403.gif]\r\n\r\nWith
    the need to accommodate a serif on the outside, the curves definitely get a different
    character. I tried to bend them in as gently as I could, and I suspect you're
    right that I'd have to do it more strongly to make the shape work; but closing
    up counters and making curves less flat/open is precisely one thing I'm reluctant
    to do in Ernestine (which is also why I gave up on putting a spike on top of the
    \"q\"). It seems out of character somehow; and this treatment in particular makes
    a lot less practical sense to me than it seems to add noise. Though maybe I'm
    not seeing something.\r\n\r\n<em>\"ball on the bottom and nothing on top\"</em>\r\nHrant,
    good point. I did try that previously, but it seemed even more lopsided than the
    top-balled one, so it didn't make it into this round. Looking at it again, I probably
    ruled it out too quickly. (Please forgive bumpiness of curves.)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/s-new-bottomball_3728.gif]\r\nI
    won't put balls on both ends unless there's good reason to believe I should. \r\nBut
    this might really be a good alternative to the top-balled one. I especially enjoy
    how it relates to the \"c\"."
  created: '2009-03-15 12:23:21'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: As long as you're casting a wide net for possibilities, these asymmetrical
    terminals make me think you might want to play with asymmetrical bowls (if that's
    the right word). For example what would this last option look like with a narrower
    and shorter top loop?
  created: '2009-03-15 14:23:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No, I think you were right to dump the form I suggested...  :-/\r\n\r\nPersonally
    I'm starting to favor the double-ball one - not mosty because the single-top-ball
    one looks strange, but because I think the double one makes the \"s\" belong in
    the font more.\r\n\r\nBTW, I wouldn't make an alternate just for the \"s\"; if
    you do that then you should have a... \"ballsy\" :-) option to fire up a bunch
    of extra ball terminals, for example on the \"a\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-15 16:10:43'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "You mean something like this, Craig?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/s-new-asymmetrical_3435.gif]\r\nLooks
    interesting, but maybe slightly too funky? I may have to play around with the
    proportions. I suspect that if the difference/asymmetry is too slight, it may
    be off-putting; and if I make the top even narrower than this, the whole thing
    seems to get too curly and round. Interesting idea though!"
  created: '2009-03-15 16:13:07'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Oh, cross post.\r\nHrant, do you think the top-balled version works better
    than the bottom-balled one?\r\n\r\n<em>\"I think the double one makes the \u201Cs\u201D
    belong in the font more\"</em>\r\nReally? Even next to the \"a\"?\r\nIt looks
    so cute. :-/\r\n\r\nI'm not really thinking too much about alternates right now.
    Sure there are some things that might be nice to have as alternates, but I'm kinda
    first wanting to find \"The One Shape I Really Want To Be In The Font And Makes
    The Most Sense In It\" (ha)."
  created: '2009-03-15 16:17:13'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I find 2 and 6 work very well. Version 2 is a less obvious and more unique
    shape, though I think the spine could move up a few units? I personally like the
    shape of 6 and it reads equally well in the sample text. \r\n"
  created: '2009-03-15 17:06:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> do you think the top-balled version works better than the bottom-balled
    one?\r\n\r\nDo you mean top-only vs bottom-only?\r\nYes, the bottom-only is pretty
    lousy.\r\n\r\n> Really? Even next to the \u201Ca\u201D?\r\n\r\nI dunno. Maybe
    it's too early to decide.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-15 17:14:16'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: ":-D\r\nYeah, I'm keeping a few versions of the \"s\" (tentatively, at least
    all of the balled ones, and the inside-serifed one) and am now working on the
    rest.\r\n\r\nBen, I think the spine on #2 has the problem that it needs to be
    a tiny little \"too\" low, otherwise the top looks cramped and the bottom too
    empty. But I'll try and see if it can handle another couple units."
  created: '2009-03-15 17:25:59'
- author:
    name: Marcelo Soler
    picture: 115167
  body: "So, what's wrong with this?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ass_3738.png]\r\n(Sorry
    for the bad image)\r\nI think it's cute as a whole, indeed.\r\nProbably I'd make
    some adjustments in angles on the \"s\", but I think it's amazingly synergic in
    all ways.\r\n\r\n<strong>MarS</strong>"
  created: '2009-03-15 18:22:30'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"what\u2019s wrong with this?\"</em>\r\nHmm, the doubts I have are that
    it:\r\n1) makes the lack of a ball terminal on the \"a\" (a decision I would like
    to consider as final) look strange, or like a mistake;\r\n2) strangely looks too
    flat overall, like it doesn't have enough overshoot? (And I'm not sure I want
    to use larger overshoot values just for this one glyph &ndash; but if I bend the
    curves in more to make it less \"flat\", the terminals close up the counters a
    lot and make things even busier.)\r\n3) looks primarily pretty and maybe a bit
    conceited, as opposed to serious and working; maybe also evoking too much of the
    usual Archer association. But maybe I'm judging that too harshly\u2026 in the
    end, other glyphs are a bit \"special\" too.\r\nI just don't want this to go too
    far down the \"decorative\" route."
  created: '2009-03-15 18:32:44'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: It looks twiddly to me.
  created: '2009-03-15 19:06:26'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: '"Twiddly"? Sorry. Does that mean something like fiddly?'
  created: '2009-03-15 19:30:32'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Yes, exactly.\r\n[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Twiddly_bits|twiddly]]\r\nKind
    of needless and ticklish."
  created: '2009-03-15 19:59:02'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Aah thanks! Yeah, I tend to agree. :-/\r\nOn verra\u2026 I'm gonna fix some
    of those other glyphs first."
  created: '2009-03-15 20:05:18'
- author:
    name: Marcelo Soler
    picture: 115167
  body: "<em>Looks interesting, but maybe slightly too funky?\r\n[...] I just don\u2019t
    want this to go too far down the \u201Cdecorative\u201D route.\r\n</em>\r\n\r\nRight.
    You've reached an uncomfortable place climbing up the mountain.\r\nAll in all,
    your \"s\" #2 seems to be the adequate (and natural) choice.\r\nI'd put it within
    your todo list for a while.\r\nBy here we use to say something lik \"let's wait
    until it dawns\".\r\n\r\n<strong>MarS</strong>"
  created: '2009-03-16 15:06:18'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"let\u2019s wait until it dawns\"</em>\r\n:-) That's beautiful (and
    befitting). (I'm still glad to hear you like #2!)\r\nIt's not like I'm getting
    bored with this font anytime soon anyway\u2026 ;-)"
  created: '2009-03-16 15:14:09'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ernestine_v3_lc_5749.gif]\r\n\r\nSo the
    lowercase is somewhat complete now. New PDF attached up top: <a href=\"\t\r\nhttp://typophile.com/files/ernestine_lc_v3.pdf\">ernestine_lc_v3.pdf</a>.
    \r\n\r\nApart from a bunch of new glyphs (\"f\", \"k\", \"r\", \"t\", vwxyz, plus
    some diacritics and such), I've been doing a lot of tweaking: mostly things previously
    discussed here, such as figuring out the weights of rounds vs. straights, and
    the overshoots on the descenders. I think it looks more balanced now, although
    the spacing is still raw. \r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nThere are some glyphs that I know
    are still somewhere between slightly problematic and totally not working.\r\n\"s\"
    I think is most problematic in terms of being bumpy and probably top-heavy?\r\nThe
    single-balled one kept looking strange, so I exchanged it for the double-balled
    one. I still think this is slightly too cute and slightly too busy, but it looks
    more like an \"s\" somehow; it's a bit less distracting. But if anyone can advise
    me on its width, that'd be greatly appreciated. I haven't really understood yet
    how the \"s\" is really narrow in some fonts and pretty wide in others, and most
    of all, how wide mine should be.\r\n\"k\": Not sure if it's too cute/strange,
    although I still like it.\r\n\"i\"/\"j\": Does the tittle need to be higher?\r\n\"t\":
    Does this work? Still not sure what matters in a \"t\", but I do kinda like this
    one.\r\nI'll be happy to hear your opinions and feed-back!\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nSo
    after this, next up is: seriously working out spacing (which I expect will necessitate
    re-tweaking some of the glyphs), and setting up the caps. I'm really looking forward
    to those, as well as the numerals."
  created: '2009-04-03 00:18:18'
- author:
    name: Marcelo Soler
    picture: 115167
  body: "Hi, Nina!\r\nIt seems you've hard working on 'Tine. At a very first sight,
    let me tell you some of my thoughts:\r\n\"s\": you've got a good quiz here; besides
    of your concerns (and before progressing in any direction) I guess that you should
    consider to slant its spine a bit: to my eyes, it looks very horizontal and static.\r\n\"k\":
    it's a very attractive/appealing character that notably doesn't interfere when
    put in body text; certainly original, I'd leave it as is.\r\n\"i\"/\"j\": tittles
    are in tune.\r\n\"t\": perhaps it needs to be taller and, maybe, a little wider;
    all in all, I like its shape, but I see it quite small.\r\nBeyond the pretty long-studied
    \"g\" (well, our common matter ;-) ...) I like the \"e\", \"c\", \"a\", \"r\",
    \"b\" and \"y\" the most, probably in that order.\r\nAbout the third page in the
    PDF, it immediatly reminds me the word harmony.\r\ni'd like to see your numerals...
    asap!\r\n\r\n<strong>MarS</strong>"
  created: '2009-04-04 03:42:13'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Hi Marcelo! Thanks for your feed-back.\r\n\r\nRegarding \"s\" and \"t\":\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/s-t-changes_3946.gif]\r\n(red
    = old; green = new)\r\n--\r\n\r\nI'll need to look at this for a bit. The changes
    in the \"s\" will need to be done a bit more carefully; but this is what you meant,
    yes? I am a bit worried this messes too much with the NW and SE \"corners\" &ndash;
    it makes them a bit \"pointy\"? Slanting the spine would certainly be easier if
    the glyph wasn't as wide.\r\nRe the \"t\", I think this works very well! Thanks.
    (I only made it a very little bit taller, as I don't want it to be too close to
    what I expect will be the cap height. But the new width I think is better, especially
    in the foot.)\r\n\r\n<em>\"i\u2019d like to see your numerals... asap!\"</em>\r\nYessir!
    :-D  \r\nActually, I've started making caps. That's a lot of fun! The numerals
    still need to be thought out for a bit, though."
  created: '2009-04-04 12:27:07'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I like the new t too. I wonder if the foot could curve more symmetrically,
    with the extremum further to the right, or would that not work well? \r\nThe first
    s works better for me, though I do think something about the spine looks fishy.
    I wonder if the second one can be improved by shifting the upper and lower extrema
    left and right respectively to make the 'pointy' curves more round than flat??
    Or go the other way completely and make the spine more horizontal and the whole
    thing a touch wider? Tough call.\r\nI'm looking forward to the caps and numerals
    too. The numerals always take me much longer to visualise.\r\nFunny, I love the
    g e and a too. And m and n. "
  created: '2009-04-05 20:17:18'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Red 's' and green 't' are better. Actually I think that 't' may be my new
    favorite glyph of Ernestine. That 's' sure is vexing. At any point did you try
    smaller ball terminals?\r\n\r\nI think 'w' is too wide. I might like to see the
    center vertex raised a little, too, but first I'd try narrowing the letter.\r\n\r\n'x''s
    top and bottom counters look a little cramped. I wonder what it would look like
    if you kept the serifs where they are but started the diagonal strokes more on
    the outside of them (so you have less steep horizontals and larger top and bottom
    counters, while retaining the width of the glyph).\r\n\r\nThe acute accent on
    e (and probably on y) looks too far right to me. You may want to lighten your
    oslash, too.\r\n\r\nThe 'k' is closer to working for me than it used to be, but
    its arm still looks rather too droopy to me.\r\n\r\n'g''s ear pops out a little
    when followed by a letter with x-height head serifs (e.g. n or r), but I don't
    know that that's anything worth worrying about.\r\n\r\nYou convinced me on my
    critique thread that the umlaut- and i-dots need not align, but seeing \"b\xF6ig\"
    here I wonder if they should be a little closer in height.\r\n\r\nEvery update
    of this never fails to impress!"
  created: '2009-04-05 21:42:52'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Ooh, thanks for your words guys :)\r\n\r\nAfter looking at this for another
    day, I think I agree that the old \"s\" works better. I don't really know where
    to go with the \"s\"; but I'm thinking, one way or another, its spine has to firm
    up a bit, get more direction. It seems\u2026 wobbly. \r\n\r\n<em>\"At any point
    did you try smaller ball terminals?\"</em>\r\nCraig, I didn't. That's an interesting
    idea. I've been a bit wary of introducing too many different sizes of balls (and
    serifs), but the \"s\" might really benefit from smaller ones. I'll try this.\r\n\r\nThanks
    for the tips on \"w\" and \"x\" (and the rest)! I'm going to try out your suggestions.
    I fully agree the \"x\" looks cramped. I haven't yet been able to produce one
    that looked moderately happy. :-\\\r\n\r\nRe the \"k\"'s arm seeming droopy, do
    you think bringing it closer to the architecture of the \"r\" might work? (In
    terms of \"more upward thrust\")\r\n\r\n<em>\"\u2019g\u201Ds ear pops out a little
    when followed by a letter with x-height head serifs\"</em>\r\n:-) I noticed this
    too today and had to laugh. It's like the serifs tickle it under the ear or something.
    Then again, as long as there are ticklish ears like <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/singles/ourtype/parry_black_ot/&sample_text=g&sample_size=388\">this</a>
    around (and yes I love Parry's \"g\"), I guess I needn't worry about that. ;-)\r\n\r\nRe
    \"b\xF6ig\": Dunno, I must admit I really like my umlauts low like this. But I'll
    try raising them a hair and see what that does. It might still be a bit unbalanced.\r\n\r\nBen,
    with the \"t\", you might be on to something:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/t-bendy_4295.gif]\r\n\r\nI'm
    not sure, I think the second one is more harmonious, but maybe also a bit more
    boring? Reminds me of the handle of an umbrella. ;-) But spontaneously, I like
    this a lot more than I thought I would. Although of course now I don't want to
    spoil Craig's new favorite glyph. :-)\r\n\r\n<em>\"I\u2019m looking forward to
    the caps and numerals too.\"</em>\r\nSomebody save me from myself. I made my first
    ever OT feature today (because I was running out of other keys to stick alternates
    on, so I figured I'd just make a salt feature), and now all I'm doing is playing
    around making funny cap ligatures. :-{\r\nAnyway, I think I'll be able to post
    some caps soon! Cheers."
  created: '2009-04-05 22:59:59'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Yes, perhaps it is more boring. I don't know. Both work for me. I don't know
    at all. \r\n\r\n>now all I\u2019m doing is playing around making funny cap ligatures.
    :-{\r\n\r\nAhh. Yes, I had a phase of creating useless silly 3-letter ligatures
    in Eternal at one point. Later I went through and realised they had to go. I think
    I've still got an f ligated to an eth in there! ;)"
  created: '2009-04-05 23:25:57'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>Re the \u201Ck\u201D\u2019s arm seeming droopy, do you think bringing
    it closer to the architecture of the \u201Cr\u201D might work?</em>\r\nYes, that's
    just what I was thinking of suggesting.\r\n\r\nThe change to 't''s tail doesn't
    make me fall out of love with it (it's actually the Clarendon-like top that I
    fell for). Both look great, but the asymmetrical one may work better with your
    'e'."
  created: '2009-04-05 23:32:47'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Yeah, it's weird with this new \"t\", it's almost too harmonious. Too friendly;
    somehow I don't trust it yet. Going up on the wall.\r\nThat's pretty cool that
    you fell for the *top* of it, Craig! One feature that had me pretty desperate.
    I'm no big fan of Clarendon, so I'm not sure it came from there, but I do like
    it too.\r\n\r\n<em>\"I think I\u2019ve still got an f ligated to an eth in there\"</em>\r\nPriceless.
    :-D\r\n(Try <em>pronouncing</em> that!)"
  created: '2009-04-05 23:43:15'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: I know, it's idiotic! :)[img:sites/default/files/old-images/feth_4413.gif]
  created: '2009-04-05 23:54:47'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: LOL. That <em>is</em> priceless. :-D
  created: '2009-04-06 00:03:46'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: What can I say?! I got carried away! :D Beware the dangers of whimsical ligatures...it's
    a slippery slope!
  created: '2009-04-06 00:50:50'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Hmm\u2026 here's a curious dilemma. I'd appreciate some opinions.\r\n\r\nLooking
    at the \"A\" alone:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/alligator_4227.gif]\r\n\r\n\u2026the
    left hand one definitely looks better to me. I tried not to like it (I'm not generally
    a fan of head serifs on \"A\"s), but it seems fitting. I think the other one looks
    too naked, and kind of bland too.\r\n\r\nHowever, as soon as I add diacritics
    and stuff:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/adiacritics_4334.gif]\r\n\r\n\u2026now
    the head serif is completely too much, and in the way. Except in the \"AE\", which
    seems to look stupid <em>without</em> the serif. :-\\\r\n\r\nQuestion: Do you
    guys think I could get away with putting a head serif on the basic \"A\", but
    then dropping the serif as soon as diacritics join the fun? Or is that confusing
    / a bad idea?\r\n\r\nIf the \"serifage\" should be standardized: Would you agree
    that it's most important that the basic \"A\" looks good, even if it cramps the
    \"diacriticized\" \"A\"s a bit, rather than the other way round?\r\n\r\nI could
    also of course just leave it as is, which is the head-serifed one as the standard,
    and a stylistic set for the head-serif-less \"A\" and friends. But I don't want
    to do that just because I'm not able to *decide*. :-)\r\nOpinions?"
  created: '2009-04-07 22:12:39'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Your 'A' looks a bit wide to me. I realize that's not what you asked about,
    but changing the proportions might change the way these options read. \r\n\r\nMy
    two cents on the question you did ask: I think dropping the serif when adding
    diacritics is on the same level as making 'f''s terminal into a tittle for an
    'i' in a ligature, or removing an 'i''s dot to add a circumflex; that is, I'm
    good with it!"
  created: '2009-04-07 22:37:24'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/E-Caps_3730.gif]\r\n*\r\nI realize it's
    a bit extreme, but admit I lurve it (to paraphrase Woody Allen, I think). But
    maybe it's too much. Is it? I dunno. I wasn't actually gonna post the caps yet,
    since they're heavily under construction. But now I couldn't not post them. ;-)\r\nOh,
    and thanks for your feedback re the serif. You make a good point! "
  created: '2009-04-07 22:58:47'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Well I share the same opinion. The head serif looks good on the plain A and
    the AE, but looks crowded on the others. Did you try making a smaller serif there?
    Though that may look like an undecided halfway point. I reckon the shape can be
    different too.\r\n\r\nI think the height is pretty good, perhaps it could go up
    a fraction but I'd have to see a pdf to be sure. I like your ER and Y. "
  created: '2009-04-08 00:00:40'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Cheers Ben. I didn't think of a smaller serif. I'll try that.\r\n\r\nAbout
    the \"A\" serif: I guess I worry that when one sees an \"A\" (with serif) after
    a couple of say \"\xC4\"s (lacking a serif), one might then spontaneously mistake
    the head serif for a diacritic of sorts, since one gets used to those little bits
    up there carrying meaning, but then the head serif doesn't. I certainly don't
    want to cause any confusion just because I think the serif looks good. I'll need
    to test that.\r\n\r\n<em>\"I think the height is pretty good, perhaps it could
    go up a fraction but I\u2019d have to see a pdf to be sure.\"</em>\r\nI'll post
    one soon-ish. I was thinking of maybe making them a *hair* higher too, but it
    seems like a good idea to steer clear of the ascender head serifs (say in \"Th\").\r\n\r\n<em>\"I
    like your ER and Y\"</em>\r\nWow, what a strange selection. :-)"
  created: '2009-04-08 00:20:38'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">since one gets used to those little bits up there carrying meaning\r\n\r\nMaybe
    you could use language features to use the seriffed A for languages like English
    where we don't see diacritics, then have the serifless one for languages where
    it'll be used in text with accents?\r\n\r\n>steer clear of the ascender head serifs
    \r\nI agree.\r\n\r\n>strange selection\r\nI like the way E has no serifs on the
    crossbar, the rather wide bowl of R and the neat proportions of Y. I think the
    vertical serifs on L and T could be longer. "
  created: '2009-04-08 00:29:12'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "OK, here's a pretty major update, including caps and 3 sets of numerals.\r\nNew
    PDF attached up top: <a href=\"http://typophile.com/files/ernestine_v3.pdf\">Ernestine_v3.pdf</a>.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ernestine-v3_6404.gif]\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nCaps:
    Still rather rough, so I'm all ears for proportions and weights that are off,
    etc.\r\nI think I've pretty much settled for the short and wide overall proportions,
    I think it fits the font quite nicely.\r\n\r\n\"A\": I've decided for the head-serif-less
    one at least for now; it does seem to be more \"usable\" / less problematic.\r\n\"L\",
    \"T\": Ben, I made the vertical serifs a hair longer. I think I did. But the ones
    on the \"T\" quickly run me into collision problems (tittles, x-height stuff).\r\n\"M\",
    \"N\" etc.: I've found that I'm having to do a lot of optical corrections (trapping,
    thinning of strokes, &c.) on some glyphs. Please let me know if this works for
    you; I don't quite trust my printer.\r\n\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nNumerals: also still
    rough, irregularities in weights.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ernestine_tnum_3665.gif]\r\nThe
    lining figs are best for tabular use I think (I'm not sure how much sense the
    proportional lining figs make, but they're there). I tried to give them a similar
    feel as the letters; that's why they're rather wide.\r\nA couple of detail notes:\r\n\"4\":
    the convex curve is a direct Patria influence and seemed (a) helpful for making
    the \"4\" reach a good apparent width; and (b) looking good. \r\n\"7\": I've never
    understood why these aren't more commonly given a foot serif, at least in lining
    figures where they would seem to need something to stand on just like the \"1\"
    does. Rockwell & Patria gave me the final push to try it. I like it a lot.\r\n\"8\":
    the \"S\" shape with the rather strong offset isn't just something I find sexy
    (which I admit I do, like in Museo [Sans] or Designal), but also helps the \"8\"
    reach this sort of width without looking like an obese snowman. :->\r\n\r\n*\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ernestine_hnum_4044.gif]\r\nHybrids:
    the idea to make these was mainly inspired by my old typewriter, which has interesting
    \"cap-height-slightly-ranging figs\"; I like the concept, but full cap height
    *plus* little extenders was too massive in Ernestine. On the other hand, oldstyle
    figures seemed too \"classical\". So these hybrids seem to be a great middle ground;
    and I really like them in other fonts (like Fontin). \r\nI'd be very curious to
    hear what you think of them \u2013 both the concept and the execution. I ended
    up changing the shapes a lot from the lining versions, the idea being to have
    the parts that ascend and descend feel more like \"bits that are sticking up or
    hanging down\" (which explains the lack of serif on the \"7\", since it's not
    standing anymore but hanging; I tried a half serif, like the sexy one in Fairplex,
    but that didn't work). I'm not sure if that was too much, and I wonder if the
    3, 5, 6, and 9 in particular still fit the font. For some reason, they remind
    me a bit of Thesis now (which I haven't been looking at), and I wonder if I can't
    have more serifs/balls in there.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nSome minor tweaks done to the
    lc too. Craig, thanks for pointing me to the arm of the \"k\"! I've made it less
    droopy, and it seems much better. I also made the \"w\" narrower, and I think
    I'm getting close to figuring out the \"s\" (which does involve slightly smaller
    ball terminals, and a more symmetrical curve).\r\nDon't look at the germandbls
    &ndash; that one's still under heavy construction.\r\nOh, and spacing is *still*
    rough. :-\\\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nBTW, Ernestine is nearing its first public use on
    a <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/57136\">book cover</a>. It's pretty scary!\r\n\r\nAnyway:
    As always, I'd be most happy for feed-back. I'm looking forward to pushing this
    further.\r\n\r\n-Nina"
  created: '2009-04-20 03:37:49'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Exciting progress!\r\nSome notes from my once-over:\r\n\r\n- ft combination
    (in \"Fifty\") is just utterly lovely!\r\n- exclamation point is nice\r\n- center
    vertex of M is too fragile.\r\n- placement of Q's tail seems somewhat arbitrary,
    \"tacked-on.\" Would starting it more vertically as it comes off the bowl mesh
    with the \"perpendicularity\" of the slab serifs better? (Or would that sap it
    of energy?)\r\n- I know there are encroaching neighbors to consider but could
    you give yet another hair to the vertical serifs of E/F/T/L/Z? (perhaps 2/3/7
    too)\r\n- too much contrast in arms of Y, and maybe X too. Or are my eyes playing
    tricks on me?\r\n- inconsistent stroke widths: (cap) Z's diagonal seems slimmer
    while (lc) z's diagonal is thicker\r\n- maybe enlarge the counter of the ring
    diacritic\r\n- strengthen the middle arm-and-serif (the one at the right, at e-crossbar
    height) of the ampersand\r\n- the overhang of proportional one's flag over the
    bottom serif looks goofy to me in the big specimen, but in the text context not
    so much.\r\n- did you try some kind of taper on the base stroke of tabular one?
    \r\n- I might lower the middle vertex of all the threes\r\n- I'd try a serif (maybe
    an upward slab) at the top terminal of your fives\r\n- I'm totally on-board with
    your foot-seriffed sevens\r\n- wide, offset form of eight looks good - maybe make
    the bottom bowl a touch rounder (less squarish)\r\n- I agree that you should consider
    your k fixed! :-)"
  created: '2009-04-20 04:57:04'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "This is VERY exciting to see! :)\r\nIt's looking wonderful and neat already.\r\nI'm
    going to be picky!\r\nThe caps are really nice. I think I mentioned before the
    ERY being my favourites. I think G could have a longer crossbar. J is pleasant.
    The curly arm of K looks slightly weak somehow, like it's not quite sure it should
    be curling like that. I think it needs more weight on the NW corner of the terminal?\r\nOn
    M, I think the centre vertex should have a narrower bevel, bringing the bottom
    of the join down a few units. N seems maybe wide a little. \r\nI agree with Craig
    about Q. Is the tail past 6 o'clock? I actually think a tail like on Lubalin Graph
    might work well. \r\nS works well. The arms of T look like the serifs need more,
    but appreciate they might start interfering with other letters. On X the offset
    looks a bit too great. \r\nLF: I like the goofy 1! The 2 and 3 work nicely. 4
    I'm not sure. The crossbar looks maybe a bit high. Try a serif on the top of 5.
    Did you try ball terminals on 6 and 9? They're nice shapes but maybe balls would
    fit well too. I like 7 and 8. The foot serif on 7 works nicely. 0 looks eggy.
    I'm wondering if your brackets are too roundy...but would have to see in context
    to be sure. The diacritics look good to me.\r\nI really like the OSF, they work
    especially nicely in text. The stem of 7 looks maybe a bit heavy. It could taper
    slightly towards the top. Otherwise I can't fault them! \r\nACtually I haven't
    been able to print today so these comments are based on the large sizes on screen,
    so perhaps they aren't so relevant for small text sizes. "
  created: '2009-04-20 11:41:27'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Wow, thanks for the detailed comments guys!\r\n\r\nSince you both mentioned
    the \"Q\", here are some previous variants, which I found less fitting than the
    one that's in there now:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Qs_3932.gif]\r\n#1
    is too strict and uninspired, #2 is trying too hard and is too much like Lubalin
    Graph (sorry, I really don't like its \"Q\"), #3 is a bit too soft/lyrical, #4
    is definitely too much, #5 is too oldstyle, and #6 looks like one of those hooks
    on suction cups that you can hang kitchen towels on. But, #6 (combined with some
    of Dwiggins's \"Q\"s) was the basis for the current one, and I do like the current
    concept a lot. \r\nI will fiddle with the join of its tail, though &ndash; thanks
    for pointing that out.\r\n\r\n*\r\n\r\nCraig:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"did you try some
    kind of taper on the base stroke of tabular one?\"</cite>\r\nI did try to make
    it sort of an extended serif. It looked positively weird (since it got so long
    that the angle got really close to horizontal so it looked like a mistake); though
    the taperless bar does too. Hm.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"I\u2019d try a serif (maybe an
    upward slab) at the top terminal of your fives\"</cite>\r\nAn upward serif! Wicked
    idea. I'll so try this.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"ft combination (in \u201CFifty\u201D) is
    just utterly lovely!\"</cite>\r\nThanks! It's my favorite glyph combination so
    far. I've tried ligating it (see <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/57136\">here</a>),
    but I'm not sure that makes it better.\r\n\r\n\r\nBen:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"I think
    G could have a longer crossbar\"</cite>\r\nThat might just be what's wrong with
    the thing. I couldn't put my finger on why it's looking so strange.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"Did
    you try ball terminals on 6 and 9?\"</cite>\r\nHm, no, I was worried they'd get
    too congested. But I'll see if it might work.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"0 [zero] looks eggy.\"</cite>\r\nThat's
    intended. Does it look stupid?\r\nWeird story: I got that idea from the Swiss
    licence number plates. I've always liked that zero (example from <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Swiss_registration_3179.jpg\">Wikipedia</a>):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/kontrollschild_6299.jpg]\r\nOn
    a practical level, I like the egg shape for extra disambiguation besides the differing
    proportions of the zero(es). Somehow those eggs just *can't* be \"oh\"s &ndash;
    or is that just me?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/os-and-zeroes_6028.jpg]\r\n\r\n*\r\n\r\nThanks
    again, this is very helpful. I'll be feeding the to-do list and let little E rest
    for a few days."
  created: '2009-04-20 16:37:58'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Not stupid, just a little surprising when the other letters are geometric.
  created: '2009-04-20 17:01:11'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'I think Q #5 has potential - I can see it working well with your K - though
    its sounds like you''re not planning to return down that road.'
  created: '2009-04-20 18:12:16'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I've realised Q is a horrible glyph to design. Good luck.\r\nWhat would your
    third version look like with a vertical serif on the end?"
  created: '2009-04-20 22:29:30'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Guys, just to be clear: do you think there a problem with the current \"Q\",
    meaning that it doesn't really work that well (beyond the \"uncertain\" join of
    the tail)? Or are you just curious about exploring alternatives? \r\nBecause I
    like the current form, and am not sure yet I see a cogent reason to head back
    down into the bewildering depths of \"Q\" land. But if there is one, I will.\r\n\r\nCraig,
    #5 isn't \"bad\" formally; it just seems so dramatically oldstyle in the context
    of Ernestine's wide, slabby \"simpleness\" that I found it almost comical. Almost
    as wrong as the rather disturbing mental image of\u2026 Ernestine Swash. :-\\"
  created: '2009-04-20 23:36:37'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "For me, the existing Q looks like something is missing. It somehow looks
    a bit blank or bland and uncommunicative, like it doesn't quite know what to do
    with itself. It's not a bad shape in itself, I just don't think it fits with the
    other shapes which are more developed with serifs and balls. That's just my feeling,
    I don't have a reason except what my eyes tell me. Remember the salt :)\r\n\r\nI
    think the head serif on J might need to be wider.\r\n\r\nOtherwise, wow, good
    good stuff. The eggy 0 is growing on me. I'm amazed this is your first font! Yum
    :)"
  created: '2009-04-21 00:00:28'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thanks Ben :) I think I see what you mean about the \"Q\". Thing is, I can't
    really put a terminal on the tail if I keep its shape this way. Guess I'll detail-fiddle
    with it some more and try to make it work better.\r\n\r\n\"J\": I'll have another
    look at the head serif. But I'm surprised nobody has complained about the curve
    (what is that thing called, the left/curvy part of \"J\"?). I'm not sure I like
    it at all. Hmm. Maybe it could be more tense/energetic?\r\n\r\n<cite>\"I\u2019m
    amazed this is your first font!\"</cite>\r\nOK, OK, I'll link to this again:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/54857\r\n;-)"
  created: '2009-04-21 09:32:27'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I did feel the J tail looked less polished...but couldn't decide why, so
    thought it wouldn't be constructive just to complain about it :)\r\n\r\nI hadn't
    seen your first first font, but as this is the first serious font, it's still
    very cool :)"
  created: '2009-04-21 10:15:43'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>I\u2019ve tried ligating it (see here), but I\u2019m not sure that makes
    it better.</em>\r\nNah, the fit is just right unligated.\r\n\r\nYes, Ben's descriptions
    fit my feeling about the Q, too. Did (or would) you consider having the tail loop
    around from the right stroke, something like this? \r\n(pictured only for structure,
    not proportions or placement necessarily)\r\nMight allow for a ball terminal,
    be a fresher solution, fit in with your signature 'g'...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_5194.gif]"
  created: '2009-04-21 16:37:08'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "THAT is Popeye! :-D\r\n\r\nCurling from the right side didn't occur to me.
    Dunno, maybe I should explore some such options. I don't want to <em>purposely</em>
    make it \"special\", or curly, or cute; so maybe it would be too much. But I'll
    have to try and see.\r\nThanks for the input, will need to process it :)"
  created: '2009-04-21 18:28:46'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "As I eat my Quiche I ponder your Q. I hope this isn't rude of me, and maybe
    it's too cute and/or twiddly:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/idea-for-Q_5063.gif]"
  created: '2009-04-21 19:06:36'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Mm, quiche :)\r\n\r\nThat would be funny in an animation with Craig's. It
    looks interesting &ndash; a bit more determined, I like that. Hmm."
  created: '2009-04-21 19:21:29'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: Popeye's fist strikes again. :-)
  created: '2009-04-24 03:39:11'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "To semi-wrap up this looong thread, my type design class formally ends this
    weekend, and I'll be presenting the state of my design. I had a little specimen
    booklet printed*, which really is quite the feeling (and I'm trying, at the moment,
    not to focus too much on seeing the mistakes\u2026)\r\n\r\n* There are a couple
    of pix on Flickr: \r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/ninastoessinger/3595003139/\r\n\r\nThe
    booklet of course includes a big thankyou to you guys. Typophile has been a major
    driving force behind this.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/danke_4730.jpg]\r\nOf
    course this won't be the last you see of \"my Mrs. E\" here. I might now however
    take a few weeks off from working on it.\r\nThe specimen PDF is not going online
    at the moment; but I do have a few booklets left that I can mail out, so if you
    think you should / want to have one, drop me a line. :)"
  created: '2009-06-04 18:06:34'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Ooh, how exciting!!!\r\nWell done and congratulations! The specimen looks
    amazing. I'll certainly be e-mailing for a copy!\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-04 18:14:22'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Hrm. Can't edit previous post. \r\n\r\nDoes this mean you'll be working on
    another font, or taking a break from type design completely? "
  created: '2009-06-04 19:37:56'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thanks Ben! Yeah just send me your addy :-)\r\n\r\n<cite>\"Does this mean
    you\u2019ll be working on another font\"</cite>\r\nNah, there is no other font.
    The thing is, I've got tons of other work piled up, and I'm leaving for a vacation
    in a month, so I'm not sure how much time I can put into this font until then.
    Plus my eyes, I think, could use a little break.\r\nAlthough \"taking a break
    from type design completely\" does sound very, very sad\u2026 I'll probably do
    little things; just not work on it intensely for the next weeks.\r\n\r\nOverall
    though I'm all set, and have my plan laid out for the next few months. \r\nI'm
    looking forward to doing some sketching of other weights, and the italics :-)\r\nIt's
    going to be exciting. But I need more time."
  created: '2009-06-04 19:53:21'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "* Gratulation! *  \u2026 Sehr sch\xF6n!"
  created: '2009-06-11 13:23:49'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Dankesch\xF6n! :-)"
  created: '2009-06-11 14:46:00'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Hi Nina. Ok, so I finally got around to giving some crit on the specimen
    booklet you sent (thank you again!) and here are my opinions. I think I've said
    some of these things previously and you may have investigated my suggestions before,
    I don't know. Remember the salt!\r\n\r\nAt large sizes, G looks like the crossbar
    should be wider, extending more into the counterspace. The bowl of J looks like
    something pulled its SW curve outwards a little. I wonder whether the vertical
    serifs on L and T should be longer; I think usually these are more pronounced
    than horizontal serifs. Q...you know what I'd do with its tail. I think this is
    the glyph most needing work. I love R (and BDP)...somehow I find these shapes
    really hard to draw and yours have a nice poise and tautness. V...the contrast
    works really well, it's almost unnoticeable. Y as well. Did you try a higher midpoint
    on the W? Z: longer serifs? Looks like the lc z has larger serifs than the uc.
    \r\n\r\nLowercase. These are really beautiful. I really admire them. I like the
    way there's the balance between quite rigid shapes (a, d, h, x) and unique elements
    (g, k, s, y). I like the way the a and c have slight tapering towards the terminals...the
    curves are nicely placed so as to be not too curly and cute but not too sharp
    and straight. I'd like to see similar inflection on the hood of the f, which perhaps
    looks a bit too curved before the ball terminal. I wonder if that might also resolve
    the s in a more satisfying way, I know you weren't quite happy with the s. I think
    the descender of j could need a tweak. Now, with k, I'm afraid there's something
    distracting at small sizes where the eye notices there's something going on but
    can't quite tell when reading. I'd make the bar shorter so as to not be noticeable
    so much when small but can be a feature at large sizes, perhaps. The join might
    also benefit from being lower down the stem. The letters I haven't mentioned I
    think are actually very good, lovely.\r\n\r\nNumerals. 7 usually has a heavy top
    stroke and less weight on the diagonal, doesn't it? Or a thinner part near the
    top widening out to the baseline. I think there may be slightly too much weight
    on your downstroke, only a hair. And I'd make the hanging-down serif longer. I
    find 4 a bit pinched at the apex. It looks like it starts with a lovely curve
    at the crossbar then turns a bit flatter as it approaches the apex and the overall
    shape (counter) is a bit narrow looking. Maybe this is just my taste. Should lf
    3 have a lower midpoint? The egg-shaped zero puzzles me.\r\n\r\nI originally thought
    10pt was the best, now I'm seeing it works very well at 8pt too, perhaps best.
    The general colour, spacing and proportions all look marvellous. The remarks above
    don't apply so much, though I'd still make the vertical serifs longer. It looks
    good in all caps. I like the fi lig, the fl one sticks out a bit slightly perhaps
    (is that a contextual alternate or a discretionary lig?)\r\n\r\nDiacritics...I'm
    no expert at all at all but tilde looks a little shy and flat. I like the idea
    of the Polish acute as a language alternate...how do you write the feature code
    to do that?\r\n\r\n@ is very nice. I like the cover!\r\n\r\nDagger might be too
    detailed/too small. Is there a double dagger? Quotation marks seem to be right
    handed or straight but no left handed? Curly brackets...maybe curve more round
    at the top...seems there's not enough 'backbone' compared with the tautness of
    the alphabetic glyphs...get a shape that harmonises with a perhaps. \r\n\r\n\xA3
    could have a wider hood, looks a bit mean and overbitey. # and Yen are very nice.\r\n\r\nSpacing.
    a needs a notch less on the left. r_t lig is a bit tight. lbar_y looks great.
    There's something very odd with ak and nk. rn might be a bit close, see in 'Ernestine'.
    Other than that, I'm afraid I'm space-blind, so I won't comment. It's a hard,
    hard thing, good luck!\r\n\r\nHope this has been useful...as you always say, it's
    good not just for the person who drew the type but for others who are learning
    how to look for things and how they work. Thanks! :)"
  created: '2009-06-22 23:33:36'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Wow, thank you! You know you didn't *have* to do this &ndash; but I greatly
    appreciate it. I hope I'll have time soon to continue working on this. Then I
    can get back in more detail.\r\n\r\nJust these 2 things for now:\r\n\r\nThe \"l\"
    in \"fl\" is a contextual alternate at the moment (like in \"fb\", \"fh\", and
    \"fk\"). This is mostly for German where these can't always be physically ligated
    (there are grammatical rules). That said, I may well make an additional \"fl\"
    lig that's similar to the \"fi\" in concept.\r\n\r\n<cite>[Q] \"I think this is
    the glyph most needing work.\"</cite>\r\nReally? I dislike my \"j\" much more
    (and am considering some rather unorthodox measures to make it work). \r\nActually,
    I still like my \"Q\". Hm. This might be a case of having to put it away for a
    couple more weeks & then maybe I'll be able to see what might be wrong with it\u2026"
  created: '2009-06-25 00:58:59'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Aah, I get the fl better now. Does German also use ligated fl, and how would
    the font know when to use the calt or the liga?\r\n\r\nAn unorthodox j? Sounds
    delicious!\r\n\r\nIt might be an idea to ask others about the Q. To me it looks
    coy and slightly bashful, like (do you remember?) the black f I originally drew
    in Eternal. When I showed the Ernestine booklet to my housemate (who doesn't know
    very much about type), he thought the Q stuck out as different. I think a ball
    terminal is the way to go, but there may be better solutions. These things are
    so subjective. I'd definitely put it away for a couple of weeks and come back
    to it with fresh eyes anyway...have a nice break from type design!\r\n\r\nI wanted
    to crit, it's a good process of learning to see and learning to articulate and
    in fact learning to draw too, so you're more than welcome! :)"
  created: '2009-06-25 09:56:43'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "bravo!\r\nund das \"k\" ist <em>doch</em> gut :)"
  created: '2009-06-29 14:29:54'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Many, many thanks to all those (here and elsewhere) who have lent their sharp
    eye and alerted me to things to look at! I'd [finally] like to address a few points
    here (Ben, sorry for doing that soo late!).\r\n\r\n*\r\n\r\nOne thing that's often
    criticized is the shortness of vertical serifs in the caps. There's a reason for
    that: My caps are very short; and if I make the vertical serifs any longer, subsequent
    lowercase letters will start crashing into things like the \"T\". Kerning things
    under those serifs is already pushing it now; so I'm reluctant to make them longer,
    although I'm wondering if this might be another nice application of contextual
    alternates.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"At large sizes, G looks like the crossbar should be
    wider\"</cite>\r\nHow about at small sizes?* I'm not sure about that thing &ndash;
    when I make the crossbar longer it looks stupid too. I'm beginning to think it's
    good the way it is.\r\n(* Ben, you can check that in the specimen, on the page
    that has the large lowercase alphabet, there's a \"G\" in the bottom right.)\r\n\r\nMy
    numerals deliberately follow a \"romanized\" contrast scheme, hence the foot serif
    on the \"7\" &ndash; and the heavy downstroke. But, I did thin its top join a
    little.\r\n\r\n*\r\n\r\nI officially suck at making tildes, commas, and curly
    braces. The tilde I'm still procrastinating on, and the comma's being worked,
    but here's a new attempt at braces:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/curly_5587.png]\r\nDo
    you think these are headed in a better direction? (I know they're not done \u2013
    but I'm not sure what to do with them.)\r\n-\r\nOh, and how's this Pound? Still
    too narrow?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/four-at-pound_6612.png]\r\n(BTW
    tweaked the curve of the \"4\", which is becoming one of my favorite glyphs; \"@\"
    is also slightly more polished)\r\n-\r\nAnd here's a first go at my new \"unorthodox\"
    \"j\" (obviously not polished yet):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/jungle_6594.png]\r\nThinking
    about a \"Q\" with a tail in the vein of the \"j\" and \"g\". But that's still
    being incubated.\r\n-\r\nWhat do people think about an eszett like this? It has
    been my secret favorite and an alternate, but now it's been voted up by a bunch
    of people whose opinions I value. I like the shape, but is it too quaint?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fussball_4425.png]\r\n-\r\nBen,
    for the localized forms (in case that question still stands):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/locl_6578.png]\r\nAnd
    then you need to list all the referenced languages in the bottom part of the window
    (see here: http://typophile.com/node/58617 )"
  created: '2009-08-14 22:55:33'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Good good stuff Nina. I'm happy you're back on with Ernestine!\r\n\r\nOk
    let me dig out the specimen!\r\n\r\nThat G, yes, I'd say it's true at small sizes
    too. I checked the other 10pt Gs in the specimen too \u2014 not sure why I specified
    large sizes!\r\n\r\nRegarding vertical serifs on the caps, it should only be F
    and T that could crash into lc glyphs, no? Fe and Tr look like they still has
    room for a longer serif (though I don't think you had kerning in the specimen
    I haveI didn't find any others that looked in danger of crashing. Did you space
    the caps with caps or lc? \r\n\r\n>I officially suck at making tildes, commas,
    and curly braces. \r\nThese are *really* hard for me too. Maybe try giving the
    nose-point a bevel and open up the inner sides; you don't have sharp points on
    other glyphs.\r\n\r\n\xA3 is a good shape. I'd bring the crossbar down to make
    the top and bottom counters more equal. (It won't match the E crossbar.)\r\n\r\nI'll
    look forward to seeing your new j up close in a pdf. \r\n\r\n>Thinking about a
    \u201CQ\u201D with a tail in the vein of the \u201Cj\u201D and \u201Cg\u201D.
    \r\nYou mean like [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/adobe/itc-bookman/|Bookman]]?
    What's your current feeling on the original Q? (I mean don't just change it on
    my account!)\r\n\r\nI can't really comment on eszett for readability, but I like
    the shape.\r\n\r\nThanks for the link; I still don't quite get it, but will make
    an effort to get to grips with it when I start coding features into my fonts (so
    far just have the very simple ones like liga, dlig and calt). Har.\r\n\r\nNice
    nice nice :)"
  created: '2009-08-14 23:26:00'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Is there a PDF of the booklet I could look at?\r\n\r\nEDIT: 100th AND 200th
    posts on this thread!"
  created: '2009-08-14 23:28:37'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Craig, I don't really want to put that full specimen online, especially now
    that it's out of date. But I'll gladly mail you one if you give me a ground address
    to use. And I'll likely post a new, updated PDF soon. But some things (like that
    \"j\") are just too early to seriously put up for crits.\r\n(Oh, there's also
    going to be a new print specimen, as the Very Final Extra-Late Additional Presentation
    for my type design class will be on in three weeks. If you want one let me know.
    I'll probably get a few extra printed.)\r\n\r\nI'll look at that \"G\" again Ben.
    You think \"Tr\" still has room? I had to kern \"Tu\" recently and that was No
    Fun. But maybe I'm being too cautious with my baby font. BTW that specimen doesn't
    have any kerning at all, as far as I remember, or maybe only \"Ve\" and \"Vo\"
    and a couple of obvious things like that.\r\n\r\nThe curly braces have bevels,
    but I guess they're still too sharp. \r\nThanks for the pointer on the pound sign!\r\n\r\n<cite>\"What\u2019s
    your current feeling on the original Q? (I mean don\u2019t just change it on my
    account!)\"</cite>\r\nYou weren't the only one; it's now a small crowd that doesn't
    seem very convinced about the \"Q\". I can see where the criticism comes from,
    although frankly now I'm just not sure what I think.\r\nBookman? That looks a
    bit like what I have now. But yeah, like the tail of the \"g\" mirrored perhaps?
    A bit curvier than now, and possibly with a ball. I'll need to play around with
    it, it was just a thought really, not much node-pushing done yet."
  created: '2009-08-14 23:51:28'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Returning here to finally announce that FF Ernestine has just been released
    by the awesome FSI:\r\nhttps://www.fontfont.com/fonts/ernestine\r\n\r\nSome surprises
    in there for those who don't know yet. The glyph set has grown a lot, including
    an Armenian companion that Hrant has drawn. There's an Italic, a ton of other
    stuff, go have a look :-)\r\n\r\nI've made a micro site with some showings and
    background info:\r\nhttp://ernestinefont.com"
  created: '2011-12-15 10:18:03'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Fantastically good work. Love it. Congratulations again!
  created: '2011-12-15 11:31:28'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "* * * HERZLICHEN GL\xDCCKWUNSCH!! * * *"
  created: '2011-12-15 13:07:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: BRAVO!!!
  created: '2011-12-15 13:50:13'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Wonderful to see! You should put a thread in the Releases forum too.
  created: '2011-12-15 14:45:11'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: Congratulations! And congratulations to Hrant too, he must not be forgotten.
    May Ernestine make you both rich and famous.
  created: '2011-12-15 14:52:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thanks guys! And thanks most of all to Nina for trusting in me.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-15 15:08:27'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thank you all. I'm pretty overwhelmed right now. Thanks especially to Hrant
    who has been a super designer and person to work with.\r\n\r\nCraig: Good point!
    Trying to make a Release thread but getting server errors all the time. I'm working
    on it, I guess."
  created: '2011-12-15 15:34:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nina,\r\n\r\nI think Release notification threads need approval by one of
    the moderators.  They are all on West Coast time so their day is just beginning
    :-)"
  created: '2011-12-15 18:47:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Bravo to you. too, Hrant!!!  That is super looking Armenian!
  created: '2011-12-15 18:48:43'
date: '2009-01-12 23:19:27'
node_type: forum
title: Ernestine, a wide slab

---
