---
author:
  name: G T
  picture: 128201
body: "Hello peoples of Typophile, \r\n\r\nWhere in your opinions would I get the
  bestest digital version of Sabon please? \r\n\r\nThanks,\r\n\r\nGraham"
comments:
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'Sabon Next at: http://www.typofonderie.com/alphabets/view/SabonNextLT/'
  created: '2009-01-16 13:28:31'
- author:
    name: G T
    picture: 128201
  body: "thanks.\r\n\r\nWhy is that one the best?"
  created: '2009-01-16 17:40:29'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Adobe Garamond\r\n\r\nYou have to remember why Sabon was commissioned in
    the first place."
  created: '2009-01-16 18:25:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "One of Sabon's most distinctive features is the fact that Roman and Italic
    have the same metrics--a criterion of Linotype \"duplexing\", as I understand
    it.\r\n\r\nOf course, one would imagine Tschichold stretched the italic to the
    roman metrics, BUT, as he was starting from scratch, I wonder if the design of
    the roman is informed by the italic widths in any way?"
  created: '2009-01-16 19:08:39'
- author:
    name: G T
    picture: 128201
  body: '@Charles: you have to tell me why Sabon was commissioned in the first place
    (please)'
  created: '2009-01-16 20:57:36'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "It is a long story -- too long for a single post. But how about this: Sabon
    is basically a Garamond -- a *Garamond* Garamond rather than a *Jannon* \"Garamond\"
    (another long story).\r\n\r\nSabon was commissioned in the hot metal days, so
    that both the Monotype and Linotype fonts would be the same.\r\n\r\nLots of differences
    here -- , Monotype is based on the em-system and Linotype is not. With an em-based
    system, every character (sort) must have even units in width. Originally, an 18-unit
    em, I believe. No such limitation in Linotype.\r\n\r\nBUT. Linotype used duplexed
    mats, usually meaning the italic and roman were on the same matrix, and so had
    to have the same width.\r\n\r\nFonts for machine-setting with Linotype/Monotype
    are different from foundry type, which has neither limitation. (Severe limitations
    in setting speed, though.) I believe originally, the commission was to have all
    three the same, but in the event, the machine-set fonts were the same, but different
    from the foundry fonts. If I have this wrong, somebody on this board will correct
    me.\r\n\r\nSo. Sabon was a wonderful compromise, given the objectives. None of
    these objectives remain in today's composition. In fact, they were absent in the
    earlier photocomp days (em system yes, but a 54-unit em with Linotype and a 96-unit
    em with the last Monotype phtocomp machine). BUT. As it happened, Sabon in Linotype
    photocomp just happened to work out as a very good font -- it printed well. The
    italic was gappy, but you lived with it. The roman printed better than most other
    Linotron photocomp fonts\r\n\r\nSo from my perspective, Sabon Next was completely
    recut to get rid of the compromises which occasioned the font in the first place.
    That essentially makes it another Garamond (of the \"Garamond\" variety). Take
    you pick.\r\n\r\nFor more, search the web . . ."
  created: '2009-01-16 21:34:39'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > Of course, one would imagine Tschichold stretched the italic to
    the roman metrics, BUT, as he was starting from scratch, I wonder if the design
    of the roman is informed by the italic widths in any way?</cite>\r\n\r\nNick --
    I refer you to this old convoluted thread (ca. Aug 2003) -- starts out about trapping,
    moves on to a discussion of unitizing and Mono vs. Lino, and ends up dwelling
    on Sabon:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/1083?page=1\r\n\r\nToward the end of
    that page, I speculate a bit about the relationship between Sabon Roman and Italic
    as dictated by the Linotype duplexing constraints, including an interesting illustration
    of the issues. \r\n\r\nBecause of the way archives from that era got all split
    up when Typophile revamped, that thread continues (skipping over Hrant's 2006
    postscripts) in this link (in case anyone is interested in wading through it all):\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/1022\r\n\r\n--
    K.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-16 21:47:30'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Charles -- the earliest Linotype phototype machines were actually limited
    to an 18-unit system -- something to do with the limitations of the constant-drive
    motor. It wasn't until the introduction of a stepping motor in the V-I-P that
    they were able to use a finer 54-unit system.\r\n\r\n-- K."
  created: '2009-01-16 22:02:36'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Kent,\r\n\r\nOK, and as I remember, the earliest Monotphoto machine was similarly
    limited -- but maybe not. I never set photocomp before the V-I-P, and never any
    Monophoto at all.\r\n\r\nMore interesting, when Linotype went to the 54-unit em,
    they still retained the 18-unit em for the width of a lot of type. Not wanting
    it to be out of date, I suppose."
  created: '2009-01-16 22:09:54'
- author:
    name: G T
    picture: 128201
  body: "Excellent. Thanks for the info. \r\n\r\nAnother question if people don't
    mind answering it (just so you know this isn't for an essay or anything, I'm just
    intrigued - I'm not trying to get people to do my work for me\u2026)\r\n\r\nWhich
    would you say is the best digital Garamond (of the *Garamond* variety, that is)?\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\n\r\nGraham"
  created: '2009-01-17 00:19:05'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: I suppose the best digital Garamond is the one you like best.
  created: '2009-01-17 02:32:38'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "James,\r\n\r\nyour post reminds me of something that happened back in the
    late 1990s. True story.\r\n\r\nWe got a book manuscript in. Pretty well specified,
    except the typeface was spec'd only as \"Garamond.\" I called the designer, and
    asked \"which one?\" \"Why,\" she said, \"the one I have on my computer!\"\r\n\r\nSort
    of parallels the proof returned via a fax, with the instructions to only make
    the changes written with red ink."
  created: '2009-01-17 03:29:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks Kent, nice piece of detective work!\r\n\r\nSo, given that the face
    exists in a well-populated category, it wouldn't be Sabon without the wide roman
    \"a\", which is pretty much what Charles is saying.\r\n\r\nAs so much of Sabon's
    identity, as designed, is predicated on its metrics, it's hard to see how Sabon
    Next is really a Sabon at all, other than trading on the name.\r\n\r\nBut if you
    have to choose between Sabon and Sabon Next, I think the role of italics in your
    layout would be a deciding factor--whether you want them narrower than the roman,
    which is traditional and normal for a Garalde, or whether the more \"modern\"
    effect, of broad italics, which is distinctive in Sabon, is more to your fancy.\r\n\r\n(I
    say \"modern\", because it was a feature of the \"pot-hook\" style of italic in
    the early 19th century that it had a very similar character-count to the roman.)"
  created: '2009-01-17 05:25:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>As so much of Sabon\u2019s identity, as designed, is predicated on its
    metrics, it\u2019s hard to see how Sabon Next is really a Sabon at all, other
    than trading on the name.</em>\r\n\r\nIt is worth bearing in mind that Tschichold
    designed Sabon for three different companies and their respective typesetting
    systems, not two: Linotype, Monotype, and Stempel 'foundry type', i.e, handset
    type. And despite the goal of making a metrically equivalent design for both Linotype
    and Monotype, the three designs were not identical. The foundry type version was
    not constrained by the mechanical restrictions, and if I recall correctly there
    is some indication that Tschichold designed the foundry version first and then
    modified the design to fit the restrictions of the mechanical systems. Jean Fran\xE7ois'
    Sabon Next is actually quite close to Tschichold's drawings <em>for the foundry
    version,</em> with additional influence from the same 16th Century specimen from
    which Tschichold himself worked. The specimen book and history that Linotype produced
    for Sabon Next is worth getting hold of if you can find a copy.\r\n\r\nThat said,
    it remains a fact that very few people are familiar with Sabon in its original
    foundry version, and most typographers know it from the mechanical and derived
    photomechanical and digital versions. So there is a sense that Sabon properly
    has weird features like the huge italic o, because that is the form with which
    people are familiar.\r\n\r\nAlso, I do think the regular weight of Sabon Next
    is too light for use below 12pt, which limits its effectiveness as a text face."
  created: '2009-01-17 06:16:43'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "At our shop, there was a period where we were using both the Linotron 202
    photocomp machine, and PostScript fonts, but with the output still on repro paper.\r\n\r\nThe
    Sabon coming out of the 202 was better than the Linotype PostScript Sabon -- both
    to repro -- at least to my eye.\r\n\r\nSo that's point one. I found another Sabon
    that didn't specifically prohibit modification, and reworked the italics. A long
    time ago, but as I remember, I threw out all the setwidths and reworked all the
    wide letters. I had sample of at least one foundry Sabon to look at, though I
    believe it was fairly large size. Also took the look of some characters from (of
    all things) Bernier, an A-M offering based on some Monotype Sabon.\r\n\r\nWell,
    my drawing skills rival Jake the Plumbers, but it was OK in text sizes. Taught
    me a fair bit, & we still use it with jobs after informing the customer. \r\n\r\nBut
    the main thing it taught me was sometimes it is best not to hang onto a typeface
    after a couple technological changes, even though it was a superlative font for
    it's intended use."
  created: '2009-01-17 13:12:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...most typographers know it from the mechanical and derived photomechanical
    and digital versions.</em>\r\n\r\nI must admit that's true for me.\r\nI actually
    have a copy of the Sabon Next specimen, but never managed to finish reading the
    essay.\r\nWhile I didn't use Sabon in my own design work, opting for other \"Garamonds\",
    I recognized its merit in the hands of designers such as Carmen Dunjko in <em>shift</em>.\r\n\r\nYou
    can blow up page two of <a href=\"http://www.shinntype.com/Writing/NeoModrn.pdf\">this</a>
    pdf and see the way the openness of the italic works to maintain the tenor of
    the body text.\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-17 19:46:52'
- author:
    name: ncaleffi
    picture: 113555
  body: "I've never been fully satisfied with the way the variuos versions of digital
    Sabon look. I've seen fews examples of Tschichold's original type from the late
    '60s (in books about type and typography) and it seems to me pretty much different
    from its digital renditions. What strikes me most is the shape of \"a\", for example:
    to my type-amateurish eye it looks narrower than the fatter \"a\" of, say, digital
    Adobe/Monotype Sabon. And the space between letters looks bigger in the digital
    version. In this respect, Sabon Next seems to me like a more faithful rendition
    of Tschichold's original work.\r\n\r\nTake a look here:\r\n\r\nhttp://books.google.com/books?id=FiJ87ixLs0sC&printsec=frontcover&dq=Anatomy+of+a+Typeface&hl=com\r\n\r\nIt's
    \"Anatomy of a Typeface\" By Alexander S. Lawson; go to pages 151-157 and see
    the differences between Linotype, Monotype, Stempel and Monophoto Sabon. They
    look like four distinct types; and the digital version seems drawned on the basis
    of the Monotype version, while Sabon Next looks closer to the Linotype cut.\r\n\r\nAnd
    here's a (very bad) scan from a book by Jost Hochuli, showing Sabon Linotype on
    top and photocomp (bottom).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hochuli_sabon_4342.jpg]"
  created: '2009-01-19 12:11:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Looks like the phototype is bigger and more tightly set. That makes sense,
    as during the production process the Linotype image is likely to gain, whereas
    the phototype image is likely to shrink.\r\n\r\nAlso, tight setting was a style
    associated with phototype (\"because we can\"), which reached its apogee (nadir,
    it is generally said) around 1980."
  created: '2009-01-19 18:12:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: BTW, 588 pixels is, IIRC, as wide as Typophile will take before introducing
    a scroll bar.
  created: '2009-01-19 18:14:44'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>during the production process the Linotype image is likely to gain,
    whereas the phototype image is likely to shrink</cite>\r\n\r\nNot been my experience.
    Both gain, phototype (offset from repro) gains less than letterpress. Repro from
    metal then printed offset can gain even more; depends on the papers used.\r\n\r\nIn
    the two samples above, it looks like the \"photocomp\" type is just slightly larger."
  created: '2009-01-19 19:39:52'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: Track
  created: '2009-01-19 20:45:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...depends on the papers used.</em>\r\n\r\nOf course.\r\nThe point I
    was making: letterpress has ink gain to begin with, whereas phototype was likely
    to lose fine details, e.g. hairlines, as the image was repeatedly copied during
    the production process. This was why faces like ITC Garamond and Galliard were
    dodgy for text, pre-digital."
  created: '2009-01-19 20:51:41'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">Nick: it wouldn\u2019t be Sabon without the wide roman \u201Ca\u201D,\r\n\r\n>Jean
    Fran\xE7ois\u2019 Sabon Next is actually quite close to Tschichold\u2019s drawings
    for the foundry version, with additional influence from the same 16th Century
    specimen from which Tschichold himself worked.\r\n\r\nDUH. Please remember that
    metal Sabon is not ONE design but many SIZE-OPTIMIZED designs. \r\n\r\nThe wide
    roman a without which Nick says Sabon is not Sabon - - is not present in the larger
    sizes. (Nor is it present in the Scangraphic version which was digitized from
    a less familiar metal source.) (Didn't Stephen Harper go into all of this in the
    early 90s?)\r\n\r\nYou can't discuss historical type design while you're still
    thinking in terms of a typeface that has a unitary, one-size-fits-all design.
    \r\n\r\nAnd that's the problem with type design since 1960!\r\n\r\n>The point
    I was making: letterpress has ink gain to begin with, whereas phototype was likely
    to lose fine details, e.g. hairlines, as the image was repeatedly copied during
    the production process. This was why faces like ITC Garamond and Galliard were
    dodgy for text, pre-digital.\r\n\r\nSome would argue that the limitless resolution
    of a good photo master provides infinitely more subtlety and information than
    any Postscript version with its crude 1000x1000 unit grid. <em>Especially</em>
    for a face like Galliard or ITC Garamond. (The spectacular crudeness of Adobe
    Galliard is a special case.) "
  created: '2009-01-21 15:24:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>The wide roman a without which Nick says Sabon is not Sabon - - is not
    present in the larger sizes. </em>\r\n\r\nJohn Hudson has already called me on
    associating \"Sabon\" with the single master digital cut.\r\n\r\n<em>...the limitless
    resolution of a good photo master...</em>\r\n\r\nLimitless, until put it into
    production. Every reproduction in the process degraded the image, and there were
    many between galley and printed image. In my worst experience, by the time the
    photoset Galliard and ITC Garamond I had spec'd for text made it to press, the
    lower case \"o\" was in two halves."
  created: '2009-01-21 15:56:48'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">Every reproduction in the process degraded the image\r\n\r\nOf course you're
    right about that, Nick, and this is one respect where digital workflow is much
    cleaner, but surely it isn't (wasn't) strictly necessary to have several intermediate
    generations?"
  created: '2009-01-21 21:38:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The original artwork of the typeface letters was reproduced photographically
    four times:\r\n\r\n<ol> <li>Original artwork of letters, from which a negative
    image was shot onto, for instance a glass grid (Diatronic). The original artwork
    had pre-emptive \"ticks\" to counteract image loss, however.</li> <li>Galley made--this
    was a positive image exposed from the font's negative image, through a lens, onto
    photo paper.</li> <li>Galley pasted onto artboard, negative film shot from artboard,
    through a lens.</li><li>Film assembly contact printed as positive image onto printing
    plate.</li></ol>\r\n\r\nCompare with direct-to-plate digital imaging.\r\n\r\nIn
    theory, it was possible to make the galley directly onto negative film, and skip
    step 3, but I didn't know anyone who did that. One  reason being that mechanical
    assembly artists were paid less than filmstrippers. Also more difficult to make
    proofs and do \"author's alterations\" to the copy (text)."
  created: '2009-01-21 23:02:09'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Don't forget the effects of processing silver materials -- Lith film, and
    \"lith\" repro paper did not have a 90-degree slope.\r\n\r\nWith most photocomp
    fonts, we \"overexposed\" and \"overdeveloped\" to get a little more gain with
    the fine strokes. Of course, the nature of a silver halide crystal being what
    it is, the heavy strokes picked up even more density (gain). The price you paid
    to get the fine lines from fonts not properly adjusted for the technology.\r\n\r\nAnd
    in making the negative, the printer tended to \"underexpose\" to reduce the lines
    needing opaquing. More gain.\r\n\r\nOn Nick's skipping repro & going straight
    to negative material -- I believe there was one time when we ran film, as a negative,
    on the Linotron 202. Frightfully expensive.\r\n\r\nOn the whole matter of different
    masters in metal, of course. In the earlier days of photocomp, you could purchase
    different master sizes for a few fonts -- an 18-point, 12-point, and 8-point were
    the most common master sizes. Sometimes you simply used the 8-point for text,
    as it was the only one where the fine lines stood a chance of printing.\r\n\r\nAnd
    I remember Richard Eckersley using a font -- Vendome(?) for the text of a book.
    It was only available in an 18-point master, which meant we had to play a lot
    of tricks to get it to work.\r\n\r\nBy in large, photocomp was pretty screwed
    up, but in some ways, such as different masters, it was ahead of where we are
    with most digital type. I see the 4- and 5-\"masters\" available from Adobe as
    a step toward recovery. Countering this is graphic designers (not type designers)
    falling out of love with a typeface about as fast as casual listeners fall out
    of love with the latest hit song, so there isn't time for us comps (end users)
    to fix things, even when a font has a lot of potential.\r\n\r\nThis fixing isn't
    just a matter for type designers. It takes the graphic designers and the comps
    too; nobody, no matter how clever, can create a typeface that satisfies all needs. "
  created: '2009-01-22 03:14:17'
- author:
    name: ncaleffi
    picture: 113555
  body: "<cite>\"The wide roman a without which Nick says Sabon is not Sabon - - is
    not present in the larger sizes. (Nor is it present in the Scangraphic version
    which was digitized from a less familiar metal source.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nBill, you're
    a great source of historical information as always. I've never seen any version
    of Sabon by Scangraphic - and it would be interesting to see a sample."
  created: '2009-01-22 11:54:59'
date: '2009-01-16 13:26:27'
node_type: forum
title: Sabon

---
