---
author:
  name: Typograph
  picture: 115034
body: "Here is a hebrew font I am working on these days.\r\nthe font was developed
  as OT using MS-VOLT\r\nthe font know to place the nikud+taam as one under the letter,
  which means that the nikud is brought back acourding to the width of the spesific
  taam so both the Nikus & Taam are placed optimaly under the letter.\r\n\r\nthere
  are still acouple of 'Dibukim' I yet to check but they are being worked on\r\n\r\nhere
  is a sample file of Megilat Ester With Nikud And Taamey Mikra.\r\n\r\nWould to here
  your proffessional opinion.\r\n\r\nEli Fried"
comments:
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: The main issue is the spacing -- too tight;
  created: '2009-01-18 16:27:17'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "leading can be Tight or Loose that is not the issue, in hebrew traditional
    books letters tend to be very tight and do not comply with ordinary hebrew typography.
    looking at Sidurim Or Chumashim will indicate the same.\r\n\r\nthe sample was
    uploaded to get critics on the Teamim placements and technique.\r\n\r\nEli Fried"
  created: '2009-01-18 16:45:42'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> the sample was uploaded to get critics on the Teamim placements and technique.\r\n\r\nWelcome
    to typophile.\r\n\r\n> leading can be Tight or Loose that is not the issue\r\n\r\nWho's
    talking about leading? Spacing, kerning, glyph metrics - right & left sidebearings
    -- that's the issue;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Hebrew2_4863.gif]"
  created: '2009-01-19 20:58:07'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "The positioning of the nikkud and taam, and the combination of nikkud and
    taam, should fine-tuned.\r\n\r\nThere are rules on positioning single diacritics
    which the sample doesn't adhere.\r\n\r\nIt's not very bad. The average eye would
    admit that it's ok.\r\n\r\nHowever, it's not exact. You see this clear in many
    examples of double diacritics.\r\n\r\nIn MS Volt, this is no big deal to correct,
    if the projects was created correctly.\r\n\r\nIf the type designer knows MS Volt
    well, and is not just a type technician, but a very precise designer, this all
    can be corrected in a relatively short time."
  created: '2009-01-27 01:20:52'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "gohebrew: i would love to learn more about this rules.\r\n\r\nif you have
    any experience i would be more than happy to learn a thing or two from you. "
  created: '2009-02-02 00:14:05'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "As Raphael Freeman explained based upon Mr. Eliyahu Koren's approach to correct
    Biblical Hebrew typography, itself rooted in ancient Hebrew manuscripts, multiple
    Hebrew diacritics are not centered under vertical aspects of Hebrew letters.\r\n\r\nRather,
    the nikkud is centered, and the meteg or taam on the nikkud's left is positioned
    off-centered. \r\n\r\nUsually, the combination of nikkud with meteg and/or taam,
    is treated as one unit. Then, the whole unit is centered.\r\n\r\nThis is incorrect.\r\n\r\nUnder
    a reish, for example, this incorrect approach often will lead to \"bumping\",
    where the nikkud/tam/meteg combination under the previous letter will \"bump\"
    into the combo under the reish.\r\n\r\nThis is a basic rule. There are many exceptions,
    as we will explain. I will post visual samples to demonstrate them."
  created: '2009-02-02 02:28:56'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "Hi GoHebrew:\r\n Their are two approaches to this issue.\r\n\r\n1. Visualy\r\n2.
    Functionly\r\n\r\nLet me explain.\r\n\r\nVisualy, Having the Nikud+Taam As one
    unit is better, in the exeption Of Dalet,Vav,Yod,Resh where indeed the taam comes
    of centered to the nikud.\r\n\r\nBut, Function wise, we devide Letter, Nikud,
    Taam.\r\nWhere the letter is the most important\r\nnext In Line comes the Nikud,
    and at last TAAMIM.\r\nThetefor\r\nNikud sould be lighter than letter, and taam
    lighter than nikud, approaching this arrgument' you are correct, taam comes of
    centered the nikud.\r\n\r\nso, My fonts support the two methods \r\nnormaly, in
    MARK proceedure, the Taam comes of centerd the Nikud.\r\nBut activating a style
    allows moving back the Nikud accourding to width of taam, and relink taam to nikud
    wich was demonstrated in the example that i uploeded.\r\n\r\nhowever, I would
    love to hear what you have to say about this issue."
  created: '2009-02-02 07:59:16'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Typograph,\r\n\r\nYou raised many valid points and interesting ideas.\r\n\r\nAs
    a graphic artist, I lean strongly to the visual. I prefer to let the funtional
    be secondary, particularly in light of the fact that the reader rests his or her
    eyes upon the small configuration of letter+nikkud(+taam+meteg). If functional
    appearance would take precedence, then to that reader's eye, the configuration
    would look odd.\r\n\r\nI don't see how it is possible to easily support two different
    positioning systems with MS Volt. To my limited knowledge OpenType and InDesign
    ME support only one positioning system.\r\n\r\nChanging the weight in the font
    between the letter, which is darker, the nikkud which is lighter that the letter,
    and the taam, which is lighter than both the letter and the taam, is a very good
    technigue - as the visual approach can be maintained. In fact, the actual design
    of the letters, nikkud, and taam, seem to aim at this approach.\r\n\r\nRaphael
    Freeman told me that Mr. Eliyahu Koren also employed a heirichal system, where
    the nikkud was positioned closer to the letters, and the taam were lower, farther
    from the letters. Personally, I do not subscribe to this approach. I have noticed
    Hebrew publishers intentionally position the meteg lower than the nikkud; this
    is logical, as the roleof the meteg is special, different than the sounds associated
    with the nikkud.\r\n\r\nThe tav has an interesting form, in which the center zone
    is smaller and more to the right, that the entire width of letter. Hence, visual
    centering is really off-center. Similarly, the tzaddi's horizontal base is further
    to the left in many designs, making its visul center really off-center.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-02 15:07:22'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "GoHebrew:\r\nHi, From earlier threads in the forum i see you have great interest
    in hebrew typography, biblical diacritics issues and opentype development.\r\n\r\nfirst
    let me introduce my self.\r\nmy name is Eli Fried.\r\nLives in Israel.\r\nHebrew
    type designer.\r\n(designed over 100 typefaces where over 50 faces are sold through
    MasterFont).\r\n\r\nover the years i have studied and learned hebrew typography
    to depth and discovered much wich i am going to make an attempt to share with
    you.\r\n\r\nas an israeli, my point of view of hebrew typography might differ
    from Raphael Freeman's point of view.\r\n\r\nnow, lets divide this post into 2
    parts\r\n1. Nikud and Teamim: the way they were applied troughout the years.\r\n2.
    tech issues regarding volt and opentype.\r\n\r\n1] biblical literature had meny
    approaches as technology had developed. so lets examine some of them.\r\n\r\nthe
    first Chumashim, Tikuney Koreem were manualy set.\r\nthere were no underlaying
    rules, every word got its own treatment for nikud and taam as they went along.
    but mainly they placed the taam ofcentered.\r\n\r\nlater, computer programs were
    developed.\r\na well known dedicated program for Holi literature is called TAG
    By Daniel Weissman.\r\n\r\nTags font used Guttman And Palron fonts. \r\nthe way
    TAG preferes to deal with Teamim is by bringing the Nikud Back and placing both
    Nikud & Taam As one unit.\r\nTaam does not come of centered of the nikud as in
    the \r\nmanual settings.\r\n\r\nthis is the way daniel weissman programs his kern
    tables.\r\nusers if tag might kern the table differently.\r\n\r\nGuttman's Teamim
    are not lighter than the Nikud, thay are both same weight.\r\nin this approach
    taam and nikud act as one in are only hints and nothing main. so we do not approach
    the taam with less importance than the nikud.\r\n\r\nnext to open type fonts were
    developed.\r\n1. Sil Ezra\r\n2. Guttman Vilna by yoel ganzburg\r\n\r\nboth tried
    bringing back nikud when there is a taam.\r\nboth used Mark and/or  MarktoMark
    Positioning but could not utilize the pair abjusments  because indesign CS did
    not Support this fuction in right to left.\r\n\r\ntrying to do so, indesign would
    shift the nikud forwards rather than backwards this bug was only fixed in CS2\r\n(Office
    2003 allready did support this)\r\n\r\ninstead, both projects use 3 minus spaces
    glyphs in order to shift back the nikud. this resulted unaccurat positioning because
    glyphs were treated as THIN SPACE, MIDSPACE and WIDE SPACE.\r\n\r\n\r\ntoday,
    hebrew fonts can use Pair abjusments in order to move back the nikud rather than
    minus spaces, this results much more accurate positioning.\r\n\r\nNow, in my fonts
    Normal <MARK> does not include The Pair abjusment feature. with a Stylistic Set
    you may use a pair abjustment and then replacing taam to nikud.\r\n\r\nthis featur
    must come after <mark> feature.\r\n\r\nTRY IT OUT.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n
    \ "
  created: '2009-02-02 19:53:41'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Israel,\r\n\r\n> If the type designer knows MS Volt well, and is not just
    a type technician, but a very precise designer\r\n\r\nare you building an F-15
    Eagle aircraft ?  :^) \r\n"
  created: '2009-02-02 20:11:32'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: '...vroooom..'
  created: '2009-02-02 22:29:58'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Typograph,\r\n\r\nSorry for the delay - just been building an F-15.\r\n\r\nEli,
    where is Israel are you? I lived in the eighties in Kfar Chabad. Did font work
    for Georgian (Gruzini) newspaper, when it went digital to Apple Macintosh.\r\n\r\nWeisman/Guttmam
    and Tzika/Masterfont were just starting. Does Tzvika still have his bicycle? (I
    personally think his work is very poor.) Tag came later. I don't think it ever
    worked on XP and Vista. \r\n\r\nMy font development work is based on InDesign
    ME CS/x, any MS Windows or Apple Macintosh System X (3 and higher). That's why
    I have an interest in sophisticated OpenType, which is needed for correct Biblical
    Diacritic Placement, and other fascinating things, like (automatic) shva-na, komatz
    katan, and meteg placement.\r\n\r\nHow, as an Israeli, do you that your practice
    of typography differs significantly from Raphael Freeman? He appears very talented,
    and his typographical principles are based upon Eliyahu Koren a\"h, who in turn
    was based upon drawings of very old typography.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-12 15:41:40'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Eli,\r\n\r\n> 1] biblical literature had meny approaches as technology had
    developed. so lets examine some of them.\r\n\r\nthe first Chumashim, Tikuney Koreem
    were manualy set.\r\nthere were no underlaying rules, every word got its own treatment
    for nikud and taam as they went along. but mainly they placed the taam ofcentered.\r\n\r\n----------------------------------------------\r\n\r\n>
    Many approaches\r\nAccording to Raphael, multiple appraches existed because of
    the limitations of the equipment. This was confirmed to me by Scott Kesofsky of
    Philidor Company, see www.philidor.com, an excellent master typographer who worked
    as a youth using previous generation typesetting equipment.\r\n\r\n> there were
    no underlaying rules\r\nI disagree. Perhaps, you do not see any patterns in manually
    set typography. I think that they are there. Rather, one may determine that there
    is no pattern, because of the repeated inconcistancies  or exceptions. Either
    this was due to the limitations of the equipment, or the \"creativeness\" of the
    typesetter. \r\n\r\nMany non-religious and even some semi-religious find it difficult
    to be disciplined and express their creativity in different ways.\r\n\r\nI am
    not being condescending or self-righteous at all. I am just calling a spade a
    spade, as they say.\r\n\r\nWait a second, Eli. Let me get off my high horse, and
    hide behind thee barrel to dodge the rotten tomatoes.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-12 15:56:45'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Eli,\r\n\r\n> later, computer programs were developed.\r\na well known dedicated
    program for Holi literature is called TAG By Daniel Weissman.\r\n\r\nTags font
    used Guttman And Palron fonts.\r\nthe way TAG preferes to deal with Teamim is
    by bringing the Nikud Back and placing both Nikud & Taam As one unit.\r\nTaam
    does not come of centered of the nikud as in the\r\nmanual settings.\r\n\r\n-------------------------------------------------------\\\r\n\r\nTag
    is Weisman, they use fonts from Guttman? So, Guttan are just fonts, used by Tag.
    Are they two separate companies, with two separate people?"
  created: '2009-02-12 16:02:55'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> later, computer programs were developed.\r\n\r\nWell, first there was Quark
    XPress, using the English or demestic operating system of either MS Windows or
    Apple Macintosh. It was the early or mid ninties.\r\n\r\nThis was the \"backwards\"
    font solution.\r\n\r\nSince Quark could \"flip the text box\", take left-to-right
    text, and flip it over, the text appeared from right-to-left. Furthermore, text
    entered in such a flipped text box, could be entered and edited from right-to-left.\r\n\r\nI
    was working at FontWorld, see www.fontworld.com, then. I and a few of our customers,
    used it for a while, before other competitors offerred less expensive solutions.\r\n\r\nIt
    was a simple solution for Hebrew typesetting in a Western computing enviroment."
  created: '2009-02-12 16:42:08'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "In those days, the only Hebrew typesetting program was on the Apple Macintosh,
    called \"Ready Set Go for Hebrew\". It was made for Arabic by the London based
    Diwan, see www.diwan.com, through the wizardry of Adir Allawi, the brilliant son
    of Diwan's owner.\r\n\r\nThere also was the Israeli Rav Ktav, but it had a very
    poor feature set. There was nothing on MS Windows.\r\n\r\n> Tag used... Palron
    fonts\r\nIs this Meir Palron? He must be a very old man today. \r\n\r\nMeir represented
    Varityper then, a line of dedicated Hebrew typesetting mini-computers. I had a
    Sinclair QL personal computer, around the time the IBM PC was becoming popular
    in Israel. I edited a book of Rambam (Maimonides) on it. I convinced my customer
    that instead of retyping all the data, I would \"dump\" it to the Varityper. The
    customer called Meir for some technical help. In those days, a cusstomer simply
    called a vender, \"Hey, Meir, come over, I need some help.\" I think Meir wanted
    to see if my $400 personal computer could really do what the mini he sold for
    $8,000 could also do.\r\n\r\nMeir looked on in disbelief when after a few glitchs,
    it succeeded in 10 minutes.\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-12 21:11:28'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> a well known dedicated program for Holi literature is called TAG By Daniel
    Weissman.\r\n\r\nA few years ago, most holy books were created in Tag. This was
    mainly because Tag infiltrated in Jewish world.\r\n\r\nTag is code-based and not
    WSIWYG. It handled fonts in a non-standard way. Tag was rejected by most book
    producers.\r\n\r\nToday, Adobe InDesign CSx ME is the accepted standard. It is
    becoming more and more powerful, particularly with well-made OpenType fonts.\r\n\r\nI
    am creating well-made OpenType fonts for classic Hebrew typography, such as Biblical
    Hebrew, Hebrew Poetry, and Hebrew Primers. Each year, my Hebrew OpenType fonts
    are becoming more sophisticated. "
  created: '2009-02-13 16:07:14'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> the way TAG preferes to deal with Teamim is by bringing the Nikud Back
    and placing both Nikud & Taam As one unit.\r\nTaam does not come of centered of
    the nikud as in the\r\nmanual settings.\r\n\r\nPlease explain. What do you mean
    \"bringing the Nikud Back\" and \"both Nikud & Taam As one unit\" and \"Taam does
    not come of centered of the nikud as in the manual settings\"."
  created: '2009-02-13 16:11:01'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> Guttman Vilna by yoel ganzburg\r\n\r\nWho is he?"
  created: '2009-02-13 16:12:23'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> Guttman\u2019s Teamim are not lighter than the Nikud, thay are both same
    weight.\r\n\r\nIn the famous Romm family typefaces of Vilna, Lithuania, popularly
    known as Vilna, the taam symbols were created lighter than the nikkud, unlike
    most other Hebrew fonts.\r\n\r\nDid Yoel Ginsburg do this like the original? My
    guess is not.\r\n\r\nIf we look at all the incarnations of Vilna, this feature
    is dumped, like even many of the letterform designs.\r\n\r\nFrederick Goudy reports
    in his little book that the father Romm traveled to Italy with old drawings of
    the correct Vilna typefaces, and his original metal type masters were created
    based upon these drawings by the students of the famous Bodoni school of Type
    Design.\r\n\r\nMy Romm/Vilna seeks to be a faithful re-creation of these typefaces."
  created: '2009-02-13 16:25:07'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> next to open type fonts were developed.\r\n1. Sil Ezra\r\n2. Guttman Vilna
    by yoel ganzburg\r\n\r\nYou didn't mention John Hudson's SBL-Hebrew. I didn't
    see Yoel Ganzburg's Guttman Vilna. But the Sil Ezra typefaces are poor.\r\n\r\nOpenType
    has many features, which are not part of FontLab Studio. Hence, if an OpenType
    Hebrew font was not editing in MS Volt, it is very limited. Even in Volt, there
    are different levels of quality."
  created: '2009-02-13 16:30:55'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> both tried bringing back nikud when there is a taam.\r\nboth used Mark
    and/or MarktoMark Positioning but could not utilize the pair abjusments because
    indesign CS did not Support this fuction in right to left.\r\n\r\ntrying to do
    so, indesign would shift the nikud forwards rather than backwards this bug was
    only fixed in CS2\r\n(Office 2003 allready did support this)\r\n\r\ninstead, both
    projects use 3 minus spaces glyphs in order to shift back the nikud. this resulted
    unaccurat positioning because glyphs were treated as THIN SPACE, MIDSPACE and
    WIDE SPACE.\r\n\r\ntoday, hebrew fonts can use Pair abjusments in order to move
    back the nikud rather than minus spaces, this results much more accurate positioning.\r\n\r\nNow,
    in my fonts Normal does not include The Pair abjusment feature. with a Stylistic
    Set you may use a pair abjustment and then replacing taam to nikud.\r\n\r\nthis
    featur must come after feature.\r\n\r\n----------------------------------------------\r\n\r\nThis
    is very abstract. Please break the ideas up into units, and explain each one at
    length."
  created: '2009-02-13 16:33:36'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> In the famous Romm family typefaces of Vilna, Lithuania, popularly known
    as Vilna, the taam symbols were created lighter than the nikkud, unlike most other
    Hebrew fonts.\r\n\r\n\r\nThis is not quite right. Do you have any book, sample?
    \ if the taam is lighter or darker than the nikkud  -- this is a matter of taste;
    there's nothing wrong or right.  So, what is the big deal:  \"Did Yoel Ginsburg
    do this like the original? My guess is not.\"\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-13 18:41:42'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nWhen I created these faces, I clearly recall this, but I also
    thought it was a matter of \"taam v'rayach\". Recently, Raphael Freedman suggested
    the reason was to set apart the taamim from the nikkud.\r\n\r\nNevertheless, I
    will scan and post samples next week.\r\n\r\nI have never seem a version of Vilna
    created exactly like the original Widow and Brothers Romm version, which I replicated
    in detail. Hence, I concluded that I doubted that Gansbourg did so in Guttman
    Vilna.\r\n\r\nThe reason Raphael suggests is fascinating, and makes a lot of sense.\r\n\r\nWith
    all due respect, David, I don't buy your explanation. It's like saying, the ink
    spilled and created the Vilna face."
  created: '2009-02-13 20:44:29'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: .
  created: '2009-02-13 20:47:39'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: .
  created: '2009-02-13 20:48:41'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ".\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/aleph_4614.jpg]"
  created: '2009-02-13 21:12:09'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Nikkud\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/nikkud_5423.jpg]"
  created: '2009-02-13 21:14:37'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Taam\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/taam_5523.jpg]"
  created: '2009-02-13 21:15:31'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "if you are interested in SHEVA NA-NACH, DAGESH HAZAQ-KAL and QAMATS QATAN
    here is a sample of ERETSHAZVI doing all this\r\n\r\nShevaNa = 2 sqr\r\nShevaNACH=
    2 circles\r\nDagesh kal = Circle\r\nDagesh hazaq=Sqr\r\nqamats qatan= Long qamats\r\n\r\ncheck
    it out...\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Typograph
      picture: 115034
    body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Tehilim2_5777.pdf]'
    created: '2009-02-15 16:28:54'
  created: '2009-02-15 16:27:10'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "heres a link\r\n\r\n\r\nwww.eftype.prog.co.il/tehilim2.pdf"
  created: '2009-02-15 16:33:09'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "this is not for a forum\r\nits too much to write\r\nand i dont write english
    well.\r\nif you think i can help you i would be more than happy to talk with you/\r\nmy
    Phone number is at home\r\n02-9919841\r\n\r\ni guess you would hav to dial a prefix
    (+927)?\r\n\r\nmy mail is\r\nstudiofried@gmail.com\r\n\r\nhow ever you wish\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-15 16:48:53'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: ">  I will scan and post samples next week.\r\n\r\nIsrael, \r\n\r\nwell? :^)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/VilnaA_6608.gif]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/VilnaB_3463.gif]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/VilnaC_4676.gif]\r\n\r\n---------------------------\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/OneMoreA_3999.gif]"
  created: '2009-02-15 22:09:14'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Well, what?\r\n\r\nI forgot whatever you were trying to show me by this.
    Please remind me. Landeinu, rabbeinu. :)"
  created: '2009-08-27 21:39:05'
date: '2009-01-18 15:46:02'
title: The font ERETSHAZVI with Nikud & Teamim

---
