---
author:
  name: Nick Cooke
  picture: 109834
body: "Here's a new serif I've been thinking about for a while and finally developed
  into an initial design.\r\n\r\nAll comments welcome.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/serif-grab_6109.gif]"
comments:
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I like it. Nice and quirky, but also quite balanced. It's a bit like a mix
    of broad-nib and brush.\r\n\r\nIt does looke like the ear of the 'r' is a bit
    heavy. The h/m/n shoulders too? The 'e' might be leaning to the left, slightly.
    Probably because of the shape of the crossbar (which I like in itself). I'm personally
    not a big fan of g's where the connecting stroke between the top and bottom part
    extends so far out to the left.\r\n\r\nI would definitely keep working on this.
    :)"
  created: '2009-01-23 18:46:09'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I like it too.\r\n\r\nI agree that the r ear is heavy; it and the top terminal
    of f seem a bit raw to me - have you tried other types of terminals? Bottom of
    y is similar but works better.\r\n\r\nI like the g and the t best.\r\n\r\ni's
    dot seems quite high to me, esp. next to the rather low t ascender.\r\n\r\nI wonder
    if putting a little curve on the underside of e's crossbar would help. As it is,
    that crossbar's taper seems a bit out-of-character compared to the other tapers
    in the font - it looks to me like it has been chiseled where the others have,
    as Jelmar mentioned, a more brushy softness.\r\n\r\nInteresting that you used
    \"Reptilian\" - this face has both some slinkiness and some fangs to it!"
  created: '2009-01-23 19:17:45'
- author:
    name: nepenthe
    picture: 109675
  body: '[1. Interesting approach you''re taking. The smooth join vs. thin taper of
    the b d p q is the reverse of what is common in roman fonts. From a legibility
    perspective, this should help to distinguish p''s from n''s, b''s from h''s, etc.
    I don''t know if you tried the crisp taper on the bottom of the b bowl, for the
    sake of consistency. This would probably draw too much attention to itself, but
    it would be interesting to see how it looks anyway.] [2. I particularly like the
    taper on the bar of the lc e.] [3. The upstroke on the lc r would benefit from
    a steeper angle. The r is definitely running into the curved upper serif of the
    n creating the awkward r+n = m situation.] [4. The spine of the lc s seems too
    light in relation to all other letters.] [5. Relative to the n and other lc letters
    the o seems unusually narrow.] [6. I am delighted by the curvaceous a; Since the
    fairly prominent terminal on it seems to work quite well, you might try strengthening
    the terminal on the c. Right now they look like they descend to about the same
    line, but I think the c''s terminal could benefit from a bit more weight/length.]'
  created: '2009-01-25 04:59:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Thanks for the comments so far. I have taken on board some suggestions -
    shoulders of h, m and n are less heavy. the ear of the r is lighter with a steeper
    angle. The i dot is lower. The o is wider. The spine of the s is thicker. The
    terminal of the c is longer and heavier. It now has longer ascenders and descenders.
    \r\n\r\nIt's quirky but not gimmicky.\r\n\r\nSo now I've done a to z lower case
    in 2 extreme weights. Here it is:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/serifgrab_5612.gif]\r\n\r\nNick
    Cooke"
  created: '2009-02-04 17:53:03'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: " I think your changes have all been for the better.\r\n\r\nThat light w is
    very nice. I also like the curve that comes out of the crossbar on the left side
    of bold f.\r\n\r\nIn the bold weight, k's arm isn't well integrated into the letter
    to my eyes. The concavity of the left side of m and n in bold also detracts a
    bit. I wonder if that lead-in serif on m, n, p and r might be lowered yet another
    touch in both weights.\r\n\r\nu's tail seems to float up, in both weights.\r\n\r\nOn
    the bowl-and-stem letters bdpq, the thick of the bowl seems not thick enough to
    me. I get the sense that the straight stems of those letters overwhelm the bowl.
    The same might be said for o (though c and e look fine on that score). These observations
    are based on the bold, though it's worth considering to what extent they hold
    true for the light.\r\n\r\nThe offset of x looks too great, particularly in the
    lighter weight.\r\n\r\nThe z, particularly in bold, may be on the wrong side of
    your quirky/gimmicky distinction. :-)"
  created: '2009-02-04 20:03:46'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'The bent tops on the mnpr seem to me kind of weak and indecisive compared
    to the strong serifs on the acij. In the black weight they are closer and more
    consistent, though I still find the taper a bit weak. Also some of the joins feel
    too pinched to me in the light weight. '
  created: '2009-02-04 21:04:52'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I love the z! Overall I find it extremely pleasing to look at. \r\nI agree
    with both William's points."
  created: '2009-02-05 19:46:45'
- author:
    name: Yehan
    picture: 112677
  body: I like the "ear" on the G. It looks very nice big though. Do you have some
    smaller samples?
  created: '2009-02-09 08:43:58'
- author:
    name: dhannah1000
  body: 'It''s got a nice, airy feel. The curves and strokes are nearly perfect. '
  created: '2009-02-12 01:48:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Thanks for the comments so far.\r\n\r\nNow I've done the Caps and altered
    some of the lower case as I've gone along - strengthening the curves on the left
    of the m, n, p and r and some of the thin joins. I've also altered the z - sorry
    Bendy! but I thought it was just too much. I haven't altered the k and x because
    I like them as they are. I'm quite happy with the leg of the Black R but not too
    happy with the Light one. My wife doesn't like the top of the Zz's - does anybody
    else object to them? What about the M and M? I don't want to 'bland' it too much.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/U_l_cserif_4936.gif]\r\n\r\nNick
    Cooke"
  created: '2009-02-20 17:15:36'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: I have to agree with your wide on the Zz's, and in the light weight, the crossing
    on the tail of the Q looks like a mistake. I like the M, though in the bold, it
    may need to open up a bit.
  created: '2009-02-20 19:21:00'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I like bold Q's tail a lot.\r\n\r\nLight R's leg looks a little delicate?
    The asymmetrical Ms bug me but they also add character. My eye thinks bold K's
    top counter is too big compared to the bottom one.\r\n\r\nI don't really like
    the top of the Zzs either, but your wife and I might more likely be sold if seeing
    it in set text - coming after the straight tops of vwxy the bump really sticks
    out.\r\n\r\nIn isolation, the many different angles of E (and to a lesser extent
    F and C) make them look almost cartoony or Expressionist (more obviously but not
    solely in the bold weight). Does this depart in character too much from the other
    letters?\r\n\r\nThis is impressive work."
  created: '2009-02-20 20:45:12'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>My wife doesn\u2019t like the top of the Zz\u2019s - does anybody else
    object to them? What about the M and M? I don\u2019t want to \u2019bland\u2019
    it too much.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't have a problem with the light lowercase z. The
    other ones could probably be toned down a bit. I have no problems with any of
    the M's and N's either. :)"
  created: '2009-02-21 02:02:40'
- author:
    name: Marcelo Soler
    picture: 115167
  body: "<em>I like bold Q\u2019s tail a lot.</em>\r\nI agree with Steve and Craig
    that the tail of the Q is odd. It seems a bug it crosses into the counter. Perhaps
    it should need to start thinner and to be shorter a bit.\r\n\r\n<em>Light R\u2019s
    leg looks a little delicate?</em>\r\nThe rest is quite sharp and \"agressive\".
    In contrast, the R is too much tender.\r\n\r\n<em>The asymmetrical Ms bug me but
    they also add character.</em>\r\nIt's a pretty design for me.\r\n\r\n<em>My eye
    think bold K\u2019s top counter is too big compared to the bottom one.</em>\r\nAbsolutely
    yes. And probably the thin stroke of the X, too. Look back at the Y for a guideline.\r\n\r\n<em>I
    don\u2019t really like the top of the Zzs either.</em>\r\nTo my eyes it's as an
    out-of-place ink drop.\r\n\r\n<em>In isolation, the many different angles of E
    (and to a lesser extent F and C) make them look almost cartoony or Expressionist.</em>\r\nAnyway,
    I guess they could work fine within a text.\r\n\r\nAll in all, a stunning realization.\r\n\r\n<strong>MarS</strong>"
  created: '2009-02-22 01:05:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: I wonder whether if you brought the swashy stems of the mnr above the overshoot
    height if it would help or hurt?
  created: '2009-02-22 01:15:14'
- author:
    name: Marcelo Soler
    picture: 115167
  body: "I believe you forgot the p, William, ain't it?\r\nIn my opinion it's quite
    balanced as is, though I wonder how it will look the tricky pair \"rn\" at small
    sizes.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rnm_3592.png]\r\n\r\n<strong>MarS</strong>"
  created: '2009-02-22 07:49:10'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "The light Q jumped out at me too. I thought the tail should be shifted right
    a few notches.\r\nThe light d,f and q don't have the same stress as the other
    letters, with the upper left curves looking heavy in comparison to c and o. Overall
    the colour is pretty consistent though and I wonder how you've managed that.\r\nI
    think the curved head serifs on p and r work better than those on m and n. Perhaps
    the m and n could have shorter curves there?\r\nZ and z look a bit more brushy
    than the other letters. I find the bold lc slightly condensed.\r\nBold K is very
    interesting and I like all your Ww and Yy."
  created: '2009-02-22 13:43:17'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Nice observation Bendy. I think the r curved serif works best of all of them.
    This may have to do with where the branch occurs, and how it grows. So changing
    that would be major in hmn--but it might lead to something good, I don''t know. '
  created: '2009-02-22 14:00:36'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: I think Marcelo has caught something quite important that got past at least
    my eyes. That rn pair has the potential to cause trouble, so at least one has
    to kem it. Alternately, a redesigned beak to the r might alleviate problems.
  created: '2009-02-22 15:36:43'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: If the 'rn' is the issue, wouldn't that be a good place to try a contextual
    alternate rather than alter the letterforms for that one combination? (Or is 'rn'
    being pointed out as just an example of a broader concern?)
  created: '2009-02-22 18:54:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "More alterations: the top arms of Z and z, M is wider in Bold, both top counters
    in the K and k are now smaller than the ones below, the leg of the R in Thin is
    now thicker, the thins of the Bold l/c x are thinner, less weight on top left
    of d f and q, shorter ears on the r's and less angled. I don't think there will
    be a problem with rn combinations when seen in the context of whole words, which
    is how we read anyway - by recognizing whole words rather than groups of letters.\r\n\r\nI
    have made the Bold characters b, d, g, h, m, n, o, p, q and u wider. I haven't
    altered the tail on the Q as that is part of the overall design which gives it
    character, I like that calligraphic element. If it's good enough for Robert Slimbach
    in Minion it's good enough for me.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/U_l_c24209_5064.gif]\r\n\r\nNick
    Cooke"
  created: '2009-02-24 16:43:46'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I think those Z/z's work better. They still have a certain calligraphic quality
    to them, without standing out too much. The tail of the Q doesn't bother me, although
    somehow it does look like the Q in the light weight is a bit heavier than the
    O? The 'f' also seems to be somewhat heavy in comparison to the rest of the lc
    alphabet. Could be me though... :) \r\n\r\nThe light y is sweet. Overall I like
    the general shapes of the light better than the bold, I think. But a regular weight
    interpolated from the two will probably be just right."
  created: '2009-02-24 17:12:38'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Bold X and x lean right to my eye - I might try pulling the lower right leg
    of each rightward a touch.\r\n\r\nI agree that the new Zz are working well; they
    now fit nicely with E and F."
  created: '2009-02-24 17:16:31'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I find the bold delightful now, except for the sharp corner on the top right
    of the M, which is distracting to me. \r\n\r\nOn the light, I think the connecting
    bar on the Kk are too long, and something could be improved on the swash tops
    of the mnrp. Maybe just if they were cut off sooner, like the bold? Also would
    it be better on the light if the arches on the mnh were more like those on the
    bold? \r\n\r\nTo me the bold is so successful that the light might benefit from
    being made more like it. "
  created: '2009-02-24 19:09:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Amend25209_4642.gif]\r\n\r\nThat could
    be a song title by The Fall.\r\n\r\nFixed! The main thing bugging me were the
    Kk's - you hit the nail on the head of the problem William. Also the Xx's\r\n\r\nNick
    Cooke"
  created: '2009-02-25 12:10:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "I've since altered the Black - the thins are thinner now, especially the
    horizontal ones and V, W, Y and v, w, y. Cap C, G O and Q are wider too. Also
    shown is 50% interpolation. I think it looks pretty even now between the 3 weights.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/3weights_4039.gif]\r\n\r\nNick
    Cooke"
  created: '2009-02-25 17:48:44'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Really liking the progress.
  created: '2009-02-25 19:13:15'
- author:
    name: Marcelo Soler
    picture: 115167
  body: "Wonderful is a pompous word, but I cannot remind another one that fits better.\r\n\r\n<strong>MarS</strong>"
  created: '2009-02-25 21:02:05'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Nice to see an intermediate weight, although it's too heavy for a regular.\r\nMaybe
    you can print a PDF from Fontlab sometime?"
  created: '2009-02-26 18:43:47'
- author:
    name: nepenthe
    picture: 109675
  body: "Your work is, as Marcelo says, wonderful. However, I have two questions for
    you:\r\n\r\n1. What use do you have in mind for this face? Is it mainly for display,
    or do you intend it for text as well?\r\n2. Given that the r+n combination has
    been pointed out by several persons, and given that there are serifs on the terminals
    of a, c, and s, I'm curious why have you not added a serif on the r? Not only
    would it solve the legibility problem created by your curved stems, but it would
    be more consistent with the other letters. Is it because you'd rather not add
    one on the f? I always thought that, for consistencies sake, a, c, r, and s were
    supposed to more or less share terminals, the s being the most likely to receive
    separate treatment. Anyway, I'm just curious why you chose this finish the r differently
    than related letters in this case.\r\n\r\nI really admire the strength of the
    black weight in particular. I think the range of weights relates extremely well
    and this will be a type family that could be used effectively in a variety of
    settings."
  created: '2009-02-27 04:41:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "I see this family as 5 or 6 weights. I should think that range would work
    for both text and display. I will do test setting in various sizes and maybe add
    serifs to the f and r if I think there is a legibility problem. I haven't added
    them so far because I like those characters as they are.\r\n\r\nI may do a display/titling
    style with much thinner thins and serifs giving greater contrast.\r\n\r\n\r\nNick
    Cooke"
  created: '2009-02-27 10:04:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Have a look at this 7 page pdf for the range of weights in various sizes.
    The smallest size is 5pt and it's still very legible (to me wearing glasses).
    I don't see a legibility problem with the r and f styles. You could maybe see
    a problem if you were specifically trying to see one. \r\n\r\nI think this family
    is extremely legible at all sizes. I'd track it out at very small sizes - the
    5pt example is track 20 in InDesign, and I would minus track at sizes above 14pt.\r\n\r\nIs
    seven weights a bit much? I think there is enough of a step between each weight
    to justify it. The new UltraBlack weight has been added since previous posts -
    I think that's as heavy as it could possibly be without losing integrity.\r\n\r\nSee
    pdf at beginning of post.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nNick Cooke"
  created: '2009-03-03 13:06:48'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "This really looks great. I agree that the tiny sizes work well. \r\n\r\nThe
    word space looks too wide to me - that trips up the readability more than any
    glyph drawing issues.\r\n\r\nI think the i- and j-dots could be bigger, particularly
    in the lighter weights.\r\n\r\n'y' leans right in the lighter weights.\r\n\r\nThe
    seriffed end of 'c' (and both ends of 'C') could use a little more weight in the
    heavier weights.\r\n\r\nUltrablack's 'K' serifs close up too much.\r\n\r\nDoes
    the rightmost diagonal stroke of VWYvw get a little bit too spindly?\r\n\r\nI
    might widen bdpq in ultrablack to relieve the counters a bit.\r\n\r\nI think you
    could afford to take a touch of thickness off of the top of the bottom bowl of
    ultrablack 'g'. If you did, I would give it to the gap between the bowls, which
    is filling in as the point-size gets smaller.\r\n\r\nOn weights, I think the spectrum
    spanned by the four weights medium-demibold-bold-black could perfectly acceptably
    be spanned by three instead. \r\n\r\n\"Organon\" sounds a bit like a twelve-step
    program! \"My name is John and I'm an organization freak.\" ;-)"
  created: '2009-03-03 15:45:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Thanks everybody for your insights and help. \r\n\r\nCraig, you have some
    valid points there - I have implemented them. Certain characters are now wider.
    The family now has a very even colour and looks very legible. I have respaced
    it tighter and also resized it smaller.\r\n\r\nThe family is now complete in 6
    weights instead of 7: Light, Regular, DemiBold, Bold, Black and UltraBlack.\r\n\r\nThe
    Organon is the name given by Aristotle's  followers, the Peripatetics to the standard
    collection of his six works on logic. A fair amount of logic coupled with creativity
    goes into the creation of a typeface. And of course those six works of logic by
    Aristotle are essential reading - they're on my bedside table now.\r\n\r\nBut
    really I got the name from the first line of \"Cloudbusting\" by Kate Bush.\r\n\r\nHave
    a look at the new file at the top:\r\n\r\nOrganon 9:4:09.pdf\r\n\r\nNick Cooke"
  created: '2009-04-09 16:24:58'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I was surprised at the serifless oldstyle figures. Is that an innovation
    of yours, or is it a common practice that I've simply been blind to?\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-09 19:09:01'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "\xA1 Handpicked !\r\n\r\nI'm still not sure about how thin it gets from curve
    to stem on the light d.\r\nI think I'd want serifless lining figure too.\r\nWill
    you include figures for small caps too? (Edit I think I see those.)"
  created: '2009-04-10 22:36:40'
- author:
    name: Pedro Leal
    picture: 114966
  body: 'Really loving the progress...   great improvements overall! '
  created: '2009-04-11 00:46:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "New file: Organon 29:4:09.pdf (see beginning of thread).\r\n\r\nSince the
    last incarnation I realized I had been working on it for ages but the overshoots
    of the curved characters were too small!\r\nSo now they are all bigger and some
    are slightly wider than before. There are now Q and R's with swashes in both caps
    and small caps.\r\n\r\n\r\nNick Cooke"
  created: '2009-04-29 17:20:17'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I have to confess that the swash characters are not working for me at all.
    I'm not sure if there's something different in the drawing of them that would
    make them more fitting, or if they simply don't belong with a font of this character.
    I'm leaning toward the latter. Your standard Q points toward calligraphy in a
    very appealing way; the swash characters leap too far in that direction.\r\n\r\nJust
    my $.02."
  created: '2009-04-29 19:58:17'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Did you pull in a little the tops of the mnr stems? I think now it is more
    harmonious with the rest. It's lovely, but I admit I still have some reservations
    about the mnrp stem tops.
  created: '2009-04-29 21:12:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "If you see them for a while you get used to them William, and yes I did pull
    them in slightly.\r\n\r\nCraig - the Q and R swashes are just a little add-on.
    Folks don't have to use 'em.\r\n\r\nAh well, you can\u2019t please all the people
    all the time.\r\n\r\n\r\nNick Cooke"
  created: '2009-05-01 17:45:08'
- author:
    name: johnnydib
    picture: 116018
  body: "Since you're adding alternates why not bring back the calligraphic lowercase
    z as an alternate in the regular and light weights. \r\nI love the full cap small
    cap relationship.\r\nI like the typeface and I like the name \"Organon\"."
  created: '2009-05-30 02:59:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "It has now been renamed Organon Serif for <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/58598\">this</a>
    reason.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nNick Cooke"
  created: '2009-06-01 17:27:44'
date: '2009-01-23 18:09:27'
title: New clean modern serif

---
