---
author:
  name: abattis
  picture: 112245
body: "I had a discussion mainly with John Hudson about the potential for collaboration
  in the type design process over on the technical OpenType mailing list a while ago,
  and promised to bring up the subject here on Typophile, and then became busy with
  other things.... But I was reminded of this when Thomas Phinney [[http://typophile.com/node/53444#comment-322796|recently
  wrote]]: \r\n\r\n<em>\"As noted previously, one key difference between Linux and
  a typeface in an open source perspective is that the latter can benefit from contributions
  from lots of people, and the former will not work if too many people are working
  on it.\"</em>\r\n\r\nI'm not sure this is true, because I've not yet heard of anyone
  trying to do a collaborative type design process with many people involved, and
  failing. \r\n\r\nStill, I'd be very interested to here people's good and bad examples
  of collaboration in the type design process at any scale. \r\n\r\nMost type designers
  who work as individuals seem to collaborate with a font developer on the actual
  production of the final files that users have on their computers, and small foundries
  seem to share both the design and production around a bit between their overall
  group. \r\n\r\nHas anyone had a great internship doing the \"unglamourous\" work
  of 'filling out' character sets? \r\n\r\nOr mentored an \"appentice\" in that way?
  :-)\r\n\r\nI would guess that, before the MA courses that are now so popular, this
  was the way that most people learned digital type design...?\r\n\r\nBest,\r\nDave"
comments:
- author:
    name: chrisherron
    picture: 116711
  body: "Recent Collaboration: Adrian Frutiger & Akira Kobayashi: Avenir Next and
    Frutiger Serif\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-28 19:21:28'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Still, I\u2019d be very interested to here people\u2019s good \r\n\r\nMost
    East Asian language fonts, Sakkal Majalla (Windows 7 version) \r\n\r\n>and bad
    examples of collaboration in the type design process at any scale. \r\n\r\nDeja
    Vu "
  created: '2009-01-28 20:11:56'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I would be inclined to agree with Dave in that type design has historically
    been a collaborative process. Isn't it only thanks to the Digital Age that a single
    individual can hope to create a whole typeface from start to finish? Even now,
    I most CJK typefaces are produced through collaboration, as they require thousands
    of glyphs.\r\n\r\nHowever, this needs to be a strictly controlled variety of collaboration.
    A single creative vision must be applied consistently throughout the design. This
    might be achieved by having a single individual make the creative decisions and
    leaving the rest to do mechanical work, or by having a small group of individuals
    closely discuss the creative decisions they make throughout the process. I believe
    the latter option describes many of the more recent collaborations, such as that
    for Meta Serif.\r\n\r\nI think Thomas Phinney might have just wanted to make the
    point that Linux-style decentralized, democratic collaboration would not work
    for type design."
  created: '2009-01-28 20:27:28'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I think Thomas Phinney might have just wanted to make the point that Linux-style
    decentralized, democratic collaboration would not work for type design.\r\n\r\nBut,
    it could work if there were a strong man / dictator / figurehead who could pass
    judgment, accepting or rejecting the submissions from the proletariat - however
    I doubt the people in the industry best suited to that role would be interested.\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-28 20:43:59'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I hope that my later comments made it clear that what I think is that with
    more people working on a typeface, more structure and central vision is needed.
    Type design and production is poorly suited to a free-for-all approach like wikipedia.
    I do think one *could* have a bunch of people collaborate to make something that
    is ultimately released in FOSS form, and have it be really well done.\r\n\r\nMy
    own Hypatia Sans had kerning done by Robert Slimbach and Miguel Sousa, major production
    assistance from Miguel, and is going to have the finishing touches on the italics,
    plus some character set expansion, from Paul Hunt.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-01-28 20:47:46'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "@Sii and chrisherron: Could you describe how Avenir Next and Frutiger Serif
    and Sakkal Majalla were developed in more details, or links to articles on such?
    :-) \r\n\r\n@sii: And what is unfortunate about Deja Vu's modifications to Bitstream
    Vera? :-)\r\n\r\n@Jongseong: I'm not aware of any type designs that have come
    about through decentralized, democratic collaboration, so I'm not convinced it
    would not work at all. Deja Vu is an existing type design, so its a different
    animal, too. \r\n\r\nIf the first type designs that are done in this way turn
    out to be low quality, I look forward to thinking about and discussing the design
    of their design process. I note that before the mid 90s (now well over 15 years
    ago, a long time...) programmers used to say the same thing about incredibly complex
    programs like kernels, before the Linux kernel project proved them wrong. "
  created: '2009-01-28 20:55:01'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">@sii: And what is unfortunate about Deja Vu\u2019s modifications to Bitstream
    Vera? :-)\r\n\r\nQuality control, fragmentaion, and lack of ongoing involvement
    from the original designer. So perhaps I should have said Vera instrad of Dejavu.\r\n\r\n>@Sii
    and chrisherron: Could you describe how Avenir Next and Frutiger Serif and Sakkal
    Majalla\r\n\r\nNothing published on Majalla as far as I'm aware.  "
  created: '2009-01-28 21:10:56'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "@Thomas Phinney: Thanks for the detail about Hypatia; I like the design :-)
    When you say Miguel did major production assistance, did he collaborate on the
    design of the outlines? And could you clarify if when you say kerning you mean
    only kerning, or the generic metrics too? :-)\r\n\r\nAnd I must apologise if you
    feel quoted out of context; thanks for your clarification and encouragement -
    I was happy to see that you're open to consulting on these kinds of projects,
    and I hope one day a \"Free Font Foundation\" might be able to take people up
    on that kind of offer :-)\r\n\r\n<em>Type design and production is poorly suited
    to a free-for-all approach like wikipedia.</em>\r\n\r\nSince wikipedia is a collection
    of many pages, like the open font library is a collection of many fonts, IMO a
    better comparison is between a type design and a wikipedia page. \r\n\r\nWikipedia
    pages tend to have maintainers who patrol for poor quality additions, and trim
    them out. This means sometimes people come across pages before they are trimmed,
    and end up writing in their newspaper that [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/media/mediamonkeyblog/2008/sep/23/mirror.digitalmedia|\"This
    football club wears hats of old shoes\"]] ;-)\r\n\r\nFree programs are not developed
    \"live\" like this, though. A free program has a life cycle from an cutting edge,
    experimental sideline source code version, to a \"mainline\" source code version,
    to an experimental \"alpha\" pre-compiled binary version, to a testing \"beta\"
    binary version, to a stable \"release\" binary version, to being obsolete. \r\n\r\nWith
    Wikipedia pages, there is only the cutting edge version, and this is why the Wikimedia
    Foundation has discussed publishing a 'stable' version akin to the way free programs
    are released.\r\n\r\nFor programs, the life cycle before the pre-compiled binary
    versions is not linear like the part that follows, though: Wikipedia's is faily
    simple - no 2 people can edit the same page at the same time, for example. \r\n\r\nBut
    with distributed version control, there is an official/golden/master or 'trunk'
    copy of the source code, and each developer makes a complete copy of this, a 'branch.'
    They change their branch however they want to, and then they publish the branch
    for others to compare with the trunk. Another developer might maintain a branch
    that collates a number of different, non-overlapping branches with some theme.
    The maintainers of the master copy can choose to integrate any set of branches
    as they like. \r\n\r\nIf someone makes changes that aren't accepted into the 'trunk,'
    they are already publishing their own version. So if the maintainers misjudged
    it, and that version is actually more useful for people, its already available,
    and so it comes into use quickly - and likely causes the maintainers to re-evaluate
    it. \r\n\r\nTo make this visual, http://oandrieu.nerim.net/monotone-viz/Screenshot-git-viz.png
    shows two branches, the column on the left being the 'master' trunk, the right
    side col being the 'experimental' branch, and the trunk twice merging in the branch,
    that continues to develop in parallel. \r\n\r\nThis is how Sii's comment about
    a maintainer who \"passes judgment\" works in practice. \r\n\r\n@Sii: Yes, people
    whose business models depend on the source code being secret probably won't participate.
    But people with business models that depend on source code being public probably
    will. I certainly hope that when those business models are proven, we'll see people
    change from one way of doing business to another :-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-28 23:51:43'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">@Sii: Yes, people whose business models depend on the source code being
    secret probably won\u2019t participate. \r\n\r\nActually no, I wasn't thinking
    of those folks. I was thinking of people who have a proven record of coordinating
    large projects using paid type designers, engineers, and hinters. And who probably
    wouldn't work for free themselves (not to say they don't give to the community
    in other ways), wouldn't expect others to work for free, and wouldn't have the
    patience to work with a group of amateurs or even professional volunteers. \r\n"
  created: '2009-01-29 01:04:04'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: '@Sii: Work for free? Who is suggesting this? I''m not :-)'
  created: '2009-01-29 15:21:55'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">@Sii: Work for free? Who is suggesting this? I\u2019m not :-)\r\n\r\nPerhaps,
    but no one is suggesting a framework that would include paying people. "
  created: '2009-01-29 17:36:41'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Sii: I think you're making an assumption about the background for the question.
    This isn't the thread solely about open source fonts.  :)\r\n\r\nDave regarding
    Hypatia Sans: To the best of my memory, With the exception of the \"hook\" accent
    for Vietnamese, for which Robert did the outlines, I did all the outline work,
    and all the sidebearings (but with a *lot* of verbal input from Robert on both).
    Miguel did a lot of work setting up scripts, revised my feature coding, did actual
    builds using scripts plus the AFDKO, and generally patrolled my work to make sure
    I didn't miss anything. Plus the \"small matter\" of kerning, which Robert and
    Miguel collaborated on and I pretty much didn't touch, except to suggest a couple
    of additional things that needed to be covered.\r\n\r\nRegarding the free-for-all
    development approach....\r\n\r\nI am not sure whether a single Wikipedia page
    is a good analogy for a font (or font family) either. Maybe a set of related pages?
    But in any case, speaking as somebody who does both writing and font work for
    money: I am pretty sure that an open free-for-all model is a crappy model for
    developing high-quality fonts; even though I enjoy participating in Wikipedia,
    I am pretty sure I would be frustrated by that same model for font development.\r\n\r\nOne
    major problem with that model for fonts is that it's harder to judge the quality
    of an edit/contribution in just a few seconds, the way one can on Wikipedia. How
    do you \"diff\" the changes? If what has been changed is a sidebearing, you need
    to see it in context of other sidebearings. If it's an outline, you need to both
    see the previous outline *and* in many cases compare against other outlines.\r\n\r\nThen
    there's the ripple-through problem. If somebody changes the design of the cap
    \"R\" in the regular, it probably needs to be changed in all the other weights
    and the italics too... and maybe have kerning adjusted as well.\r\n\r\nI think
    it would be an interesting open-source project to devise a set of tools/scripts
    or what-not just to better *enable* type design collaboration by addressing those
    two issues.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-01-29 20:13:41'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">This isn\u2019t the thread solely about open source fonts. :)\r\n\r\nSorry
    I was specifically responding to questions about <EM>Linux-style decentralized,
    democratic collaboration</EM> which by definition means unpaid volunteers are
    involved at some levels of the effort.\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-29 20:24:10'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "@Sii: Unpaid volunteers are involved at some levels of the effort to write
    the Linux kernel, yes. Off the top of your head, what would you guess the percentage
    is? :-) \r\n\r\n@Thomas Phinney: That's interesting details indeed about how the
    collaboration in Hypatia actually breaks down :-) I 100% agree with you that font
    development tools with collaboration-specific features are required - this is
    what I meant when I said \"the design of the design process\" earlier. \r\n\r\nIts
    too bad that these features aren't seen as desirable by mainstream type designers,
    and there is no existing practice to examine. \r\n\r\nYour concept of the 'ripple
    through' problem is a great insight - I wonder if you think the ideas behind font
    synthesis tools like [[http://download.adobe.com/pub/adobe/fontchameleon/discontinued.txt|Ares
    Font Chameleon would help? I saw [[http://www.thomasphinney.com/about/about-long-version/on
    your new blog you mentioned you held some software idea patents about \"glyph
    synthesis\"]]. Are those patents published online anywhere? :-)\r\n\r\nHas anyone
    got access to Ares Font Chameleon and could post some screencasts? Or is (going
    to be) in Europe, as I'd love (to hang out and) see it in action :-) "
  created: '2009-01-29 22:52:17'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: '@sii: Thousands of companies'' profits are based on things that are freely
    sharable and modifiable, so perhaps no one needs to suggest a framework that would
    include paying people, when [[http://www.blender.org/blenderorg/blender-foundation/|plenty]]
    [[http://www.mojolin.com|of]] [[http://www.redhat.com|frameworks]] [[http://o-hand.com/|are]]
    [[http://www.fsf.org/resources/jobs/listing|visible]] [[http://www.openmedianow.org|to]]
    [[http://www.openmoko.com|anyone]] [[http://www.symfony-project.org/|who]] [[http://blogs.magnatune.com/buckman/2008/06/short-film-abou.html|cares]]
    [[http://magnatune.com/|to]] [[http://schoolforge.org.uk/index.php/Support#Consultancies|look]]?
    :-)'
  created: '2009-01-29 23:22:22'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I'm not sure why you're giving me a hard time. :-)\r\n\r\nI was disagreeing
    with an interpretation of Tom's claim\u2026\r\n\r\n\"I think Thomas Phinney might
    have just wanted to make the point that Linux-style decentralized, democratic
    collaboration would not work for type design.\"\r\n\r\nBy stating that it could
    work with a \"strong man\" in charge. \r\n\r\nI still stand by my claim that the
    people best suited to the strong man role have no interest in it, and would likely
    have no interest even if they personally were paid. However, this is all academic
    as no one is stepping forward to pay them.\r\n\r\nI'm completely happy to be proved
    wrong. I'd love to see funded projects, and I'd love to see the leaders in type
    community run them. It would be extremely fun and entertaining to watch. \r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2009-01-29 23:36:02'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "@Sii: Sorry I seem to be giving you a hard time, that's certainly not my
    intention! :-) I agree with your 'strong man in charge' idea - free software projects
    work like that anyway, such as the Linux kernel and Linus Torvalds, or Python
    and Guido van Rossum, or the Ubuntu GNU/Linux distribution and Mark Shuttleworth.\r\n\r\nAlthough,
    I do think that this phrasing of the idea gives the wrong impression; the free
    software community uses the term 'package maintainer,' which implies a more accurate
    picture of consensus and harmony rather than conflict and force. \r\n\r\nAnd I
    agree this is academic and speculative topic, which is why I hoped to discuss
    examples of collaboration in some detail :-)\r\n\r\nMy question about your guess
    at the ratio of paid to unpaid work in the Linux kernel relates to your point
    about type professionals not wanting to work as maintainers even if they were
    paid, which I don't understand, and hope you can clarify. \r\n\r\nI would have
    estimated it was 20%, but after spending the last while researching it, it seems
    [[http://lwn.net/Articles/222773/|its actually 10%.]] So I think thats a good
    ballpark figure to suggest that a paid-up, collaborative, libre font project would
    involve \"a group of amateurs or even professional volunteers ... involved at
    some level of the effort\" - say, 10-20% of the effort. \r\n\r\nSince type design
    is a patient activity, I wonder if you could explain why you think the patience
    of working at a type design on your own is less frustrating/needing-patience than
    working collaboratively? :-) \r\n\r\nI would agree that the unsuitability of current
    font development tools means it is frustrating. But since I'm familiar with working
    collaboratively with plain-text tools, and that process isn't frustrating - though
    surely different to writing alone - I see no reason collaborative type design
    would require unreasonable levels of patience if the tools facilitated it. \r\n\r\nSince
    you say it would be extremely fun and entertaining to watch such projects develop,
    \ do you agree that its the available tools that are the problem? Or is there
    something else inherent in the process of type design that I'm missing? \r\n\r\nI'm
    very much a beginner at type design, so I can't tell :-)"
  created: '2009-01-30 00:20:19'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "<cite>Since type design is a patient activity, I wonder if you could explain
    why you think the patience of working at a type design on your own is less frustrating/needing-patience
    than working collaboratively? :-)</cite>\r\n\r\nI would venture that people who
    care enough about type design to put in the huge amount of time and effort are
    also more likely to seek creative control over their work. I don't know much about
    the free software community, but I suspect the contributors wouldn't be quite
    as hung up on maintaining their own creative vision.\r\n\r\nEarlier, you said
    you weren't convinced that type designs that have come about through decentralized,
    democratic collaboration would not work at all, as you haven't seen any examples.
    I'm not sure such designs can even exist, since competing creative visions will
    be hard to reconcile without central direction, and the result will hardly be
    coherent enough to stand as a typeface design.\r\n\r\nI'm still trying to understand
    how you picture this would work. Perhaps A designs some of the letters, B comes
    and contributes a couple, C comes and tweaks some of the existing letters done
    by A and B, D comes and fills out the remaining letters, A comes back and retweaks
    the letters... How would design consistency be maintained over this whole process
    when A, B, C, and D will have differing creative visions? Unless the collaboration
    process takes place at a different, well-defined level (i.e. someone designs the
    basic glyphs, another adds diacritics, yet another takes care of the naming and
    production), I just don't see a coherent typeface coming about as a result.\r\n\r\nJust
    so you understand, I would love to see a workable collaborative model for type
    design set up, as it would make type design more approachable for people who are
    intimidated by the prospect of taking on the entire process by themselves. I am
    just trying to point out how it might not work, as I'm not convinced the open
    software or Wikipedia models of collaboration will translate to the type design
    process.\r\n\r\nI see a modular approach as being necessary for successful collaboration.
    It could go like this:\r\n\r\nA designs the basic lowercase and uppercase alphabet.\r\nB
    designs the numerals to harmonize with the alphabet.\r\nC and D design punctuation
    and diacritics to fill out the basic character set.\r\n\r\nThroughout, the designers
    give each other feedback, but rather than freely editing one another's designs,
    allow the original designer to incorporate the others' suggestions in modifying
    his or her design. A sort of creative director over the entire project may come
    handy if there are disagreements over creative direction. Constant cooperation
    would be required just in order to maintain consistent spacing and design detail
    for the characters.\r\n\r\nLater on, teams consisting of the same members or new
    ones could add italics, different weights, expand into different writing systems,
    etc. using this modular approach.\r\n\r\nIn practice, it would be more efficient
    were these modules to be combined where possible; it is easier to get a consistent
    result with a single designer working on all the glyphs of the basic character
    set rather than with multiple designers. But then people might be more willing
    to contribute if the workload is less. The trouble would be to determine which
    contributors are competent enough and to maintain a high standard of design throughout
    the modules. This doesn't look to be at all easy."
  created: '2009-01-30 09:28:07'
- author:
    name: bemerx25
    picture: 112539
  body: "Here's something that was done collaboratively - letters were designed by
    the crowd and submitted via email: \r\nhttp://www.bittbox.com/freebies/bb-free-font-conglomerfont/\r\n\r\nIn
    any case, a benevolent dictator (read \"manager\") is needed to ensure a final,
    serviceable product. Although I suppose a team of managers would also work as
    long as there was an overarching and agreed upon vision."
  created: '2009-01-30 16:21:10'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Since you say it would be extremely fun and entertaining to watch such projects
    develop, do you agree that its the available tools that are the problem? Or is
    there something else inherent in the process of type design that I\u2019m missing?\r\n\r\nNo
    I don\u2019t think it\u2019s a matter of tools. Managing large collaborative font
    development projects is hard for a variety of reasons, even when everyone involved
    is employed by a single company, with a clear spec, with set milestones and deliverables.
    I think adding the prospect of including many unpaid, part-time resources to such
    a  project would make it even more difficult, and unappealing, and somewhat outside
    the comfort zone of the people best suited to running such projects. \r\n\r\nOne
    alternative option might be to have a trinity of strong-men run the project\u2026
    \u201Cthe father\u201D an upstanding leader from the type world as the figurehead,
    \u201Cthe son\u201D the person who does all the actual co-ordination passing the
    work to the father to be blessed, and the \u201Choly ghost\u201D someone from
    the OSS world who can ensure all the OSS religious rites are adhered to.    \r\n"
  created: '2009-01-30 18:01:28'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Isn\u2019t it only thanks to the Digital Age that a single individual can
    hope to create a whole typeface from start to finish?\"\r\nI don't think so, as
    both metal and film fonts were created individually for decades. Manufacture changed
    in the digital age and distribution changed in the internet age. Specification
    has apparently changed in the idiot age. \r\n\r\n\"It could go like this: A designs
    the basic lowercase and uppercase alphabet. B designs the numerals to harmonize
    with the alphabet.\r\nC and D design punctuation and diacritics to fill out the
    basic character set.\"\r\nGeeeeeze.  Can three women have a baby  in 3 months
    now because of technology?\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-31 13:45:59'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: 'Collaboration in action thanks to Typophile, apparently: <a href=http://klepas.org/openbaskerville/>Open
    Baskerville</a>.'
  created: '2009-01-31 18:38:57'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Two things:\r\n\r\nI think that lack of good tools/workflow for collaborative
    type design is a problem, but absolutely not the *only* problem for such an effort.\r\n\r\nI
    think I disagree with Si that none of the people who could reasonably be master
    architect of such an effort would be interested, even for pay. However, I'll believe
    that perhaps *most* of the people who could do so would not be interested.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-02-01 05:37:48'
- author:
    name: minombresbond
    picture: 115759
  body: "I know 'proyectodemo'\r\n\r\nhttp://www.proyectodemo.cl/blog/\r\n\r\nThis
    is not 'open source type design' project at all, but is a collaborative 'game'
    when many Argentines and Chileans recognized typographers worked in a font design,
    the 'football typo match' lasted 8 weeks\r\n\r\nProbably these designers never
    heard about 'open source / collaborative font design', but I do not think that
    is an eccentricity suggests the possibility of collaborative projects like this
    in the FLOSS context if some typographers are interested, the internet promote
    spontaneous collaborative projects all the time..\r\n\r\nproyecto demo team\r\n\r\n\xC1rbitro
    \  Andreu Balius\r\n\r\nChile\r\n      Francisco G\xE1lvez (DT)\r\n      Rodrigo
    Ram\xEDrez\r\n      Tono Rojas\r\n      Kote Soto\r\n      Luciano Vergara\r\n
    \     Felipe C\xE1ceres\r\n\r\nArgentina\r\n      Alejandro Paul (DT)\r\n      Eduardo
    Tunni\r\n      Alejandro lo Celso\r\n      Eduardo Manso\r\n      Jos\xE9 Scaglione\r\n
    \     Pablo Cosgaya\r\n\r\n\r\nhttp://www.proyectodemo.cl/blog/?page_id=3\r\n\r\n\xBFpor
    qu\xE9 demo? (why Demo?)\r\n[...]\r\n3.- Demo, de demostrar que es posible juntar
    a un grupo de amigos, \xA1simplemente para pasarlo bien, haciendo algo que nos
    gusta!\r\n\r\n(3- Demo, from 'demostrate' that is possible to gather a group of
    friends, Just for fun, doing something we love!)\r\n\r\nmany open source projects
    started as fun and ended up as business...\r\n\r\nsaludos!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-01 15:17:44'
date: '2009-01-28 19:04:34'
node_type: forum
title: Thoughts and examples of collaboration in the type design process?

---
