---
author:
  name: Yehan
  picture: 112677
body: "I'm curious..it's not BUTT ugly like Comic Sans, but it ain't pretty either..and
  it's also just about anywhere and everywhere. Does anyone know why? Or is because
  of Windows and Microsoft?\r\n\r\nThoughts please.."
comments:
- author:
    name: seventy7
    picture: 111185
  body: http://typophile.com/node/14705?
  created: '2009-01-29 16:09:14'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "http://twitpic.com/18mpj - I hate Times New Roman. Letters by Vincent Connare
    and image by AMP London. Released in 2003. about 2 hours ago from TwitPic\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/138420597_24f1f5b80b_o_6561.jpg]"
  created: '2009-01-29 16:17:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yeah, children are silent.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-29 16:33:03'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Does anyone know why? Or is because of Windows and Microsoft?\r\n\r\nTimes
    was selected for the first laser printers - so Adobe is to blame ;-)"
  created: '2009-01-29 17:06:07'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: "When Times Roman was introduced in the 1930s, it was a breath of fresh air.
    It had a narrow shape to fit well in newspaper columns, and a generous x-height
    for ease of reading. With its oblique stress, it was much easier on the eye than
    the newspaper types it replaced, variants of the Scotch Roman family with vertical
    stress, wide serifs and exaggerated contrast between thick and thin strokes (this
    example is from the London Times in 1922).\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/london_4679.times.close.jpg]\r\nOn
    the Linotype, Times had not only a bold and an italic, but a bold italic (most
    text faces didn't), so it became the workhorse typeface for all kinds of text
    composition. This made it the obvious serif font for the early desktop publishing
    systems, which caused it to spread like kudzu. \r\nLike Helvetica, Times is a
    perfectly good font that was undone by its own success, reduced to the visual
    equivalent of white noise.\r\n\r\nThat being said, I agree the guy who combined
    Times with Comic Sans initials ought to be waterboarded."
  created: '2009-01-29 17:57:04'
- author:
    name: Yehan
    picture: 112677
  body: "\"Like Helvetica, Times is a perfectly good font that was undone by its own
    success, reduced to the visual equivalent of white noise.\"\r\n\r\nI agree..it's
    not THAT ugly, but it's everywhere and it's ubiquity makes it a pain really. The
    van should be burned:P"
  created: '2009-01-30 02:04:46'
- author:
    name: Yehan
    picture: 112677
  body: "Just thinking, after reading the \"wiki\" article. WHY does it have to be
    the default font? Why couldn't they use something else... I try to use Georgia
    instead of Times when faced with no choice.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-30 02:07:43'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "What would you suggest they should have picked? Georgia wasn't released until
    1996. And what's to say the default wouldn't have become as over-used and tired
    as Times and Helvetica? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-30 02:47:56'
- author:
    name: Yehan
    picture: 112677
  body: I don't know really. Helvetica IS tired, but somehow it's managed to keep
    going, with people declaring their undying love for the typeface, even a film
    now. Maybe there will always be a use for similar grotesks. BUT, I've not heard
    of anyone expressing such sentiments for Times New Roman. Not yet anyways. I'm
    just lamenting the fact that it's everywhere...
  created: '2009-01-30 02:52:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The popularity/over-use of a font has only partial relevance to its functionality.
    Times came out OK in the printing of early 20th century newspapers, but now it's
    too light and too contrasty. There's actually a nice demi weight of Times, but
    it's a rara avis. As for Helvetica, its various parameters (vertical proportions,
    weight, spacing) are out of whack with each other, so it has never really worked
    well (with the possible exception of the hairline weight at very large sizes).
    People tend to like Helvetica because they take their particular pet ideology
    too seriously, subverting the world to it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-30 02:55:13'
- author:
    name: Yehan
    picture: 112677
  body: 'Agreed that Times looked alright then, and that''s its digital version is
    woeful. Not exactly ugly, but its the overuse that does it in for me. I''m curious
    as to whether the overuse is due to lack of alternatives, or just pure ignorance? '
  created: '2009-01-30 03:29:12'
- author:
    name: bemerx25
    picture: 112539
  body: Overuse comes from availability (or lack of availability of alternates). But
    I think ignorance and lack of critical thinking definitely plays a role.
  created: '2009-01-30 16:08:55'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Tracking.
  created: '2009-01-30 18:33:30'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "It's everywhere because...it's everywhere. 3M uses it, along with Helvetica.
    Why? My guess is that they save a chunk of money in font licensing. Silly thing
    to scrimp on, IMHO, but...\r\n\r\nMy current gig is 'Helvetica'. Unless you don't
    have it. Then use Arial.\r\n\r\n*sigh*\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-30 18:43:52'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: I don't actually dislike times for what it is good at. I mainly dislike it
    as when I've had to use it...it was usually in the wrong medium as a display face,
    or screen face. Both of which it doesn't excel at.
  created: '2009-01-30 18:45:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But what is Times good at <em>now</em>?\r\nBesides saving money and mental
    effort.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-30 18:58:01'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "TNR, what is it good for... \r\n\r\nMight be a question for Font Bureau...
    http://typecon.com/talk.php?id=258 "
  created: '2009-01-30 19:06:37'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "TNR what it's no good for... the old Ministry of Sound logo... I replaced
    it with a more contemporary version\r\n\r\nand 'Everyone knows comic dogs don't
    talk in TNR'\r\n\r\nhttp://crackle.com/c/Rocketboom/Vincent_Connare_The_Creator_of_Comic_Sans_at_ROFL_/2438246"
  created: '2009-01-30 19:17:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Times New Roman was and is a great typeface. It deserved its popularity.
    Get over it. \r\n\r\nNow I know a good replacement that ought to be everywhere
    soon ... :) "
  created: '2009-01-30 19:37:48'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "I agree that it was a great typeface. Because of overuse, I never use it.
    I've been sending out a newsletter for about 9 years. This is what I tell prospective
    subscribers:\r\n\r\n[My newsletter] is also a workshop and playground for my typographic
    and writing interests, and a demonstration that there is life (at least in print)
    after Times New Roman & Ariel, neither of which are used in this newsletter.\r\n\r\nEach
    issue is printed in a different pair of fonts, complemented with display fonts
    appropriate to the copy of a particular article."
  created: '2009-01-30 22:01:39'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "What's the newsletter about? Proof reading? ;-)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/thumbnailAriel_3514.jpg]\r\n\r\nNOT
    WANTED!"
  created: '2009-01-30 23:38:43'
- author:
    name: Yehan
    picture: 112677
  body: "@ William - what replacement? (I'm curious) I've taken to using Storm's Lido
    when faced with stubborn resistance! Interested to see Starling from FB\r\n\r\n@aluminum
    - I know how that feels, having to use it for silly purposes. TNR for logo(sigh)
    \"Could you make that bigger?\" \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-31 00:50:03'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: When I was a kid I was head over heels for TNR Bold Italic.
  created: '2009-01-31 07:39:48'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "On the one hand, TNR really *is* a great typeface. When the \"Times conspiracy\"
    stuff was first big I  spent some time really studying and re-evaluating Times,
    and decided it is really a great piece of work. Sure, it's overused and I'm tired
    of it, but the design is really outstanding.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, I couldn't
    agree more with Hrant on Helvetica. Pretty much everything good or useful about
    Helvetica is all in the associations or image it brings along, not in the actual
    design or inherent utility of that design. Bleah. But I still have the movie on
    Blu-ray.  :)\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-01-31 07:45:46'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: <a href="http://www.seedconference.com/seed.php" title:"Found via Typesites">Beautifully
    done.</a>
  created: '2009-01-31 11:20:40'
- author:
    name: Yehan
    picture: 112677
  body: Haha..in the case above..fair enough. It was used well..and I guess it wasn't
    expected either..nice nice. This I think, is true typographic craft, to make something
    not spectacular turn out to be quite sweet!
  created: '2009-01-31 16:18:07'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "sii (Simon Daniels),\r\n\r\nOK, I give up. What was my error?\r\n\r\nBTW,
    \"Proof reading\" is one word.\r\n\r\nPlaying gotcha is not without risks."
  created: '2009-01-31 17:54:42'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: 'The typeface you are seeking to avoid is called Arial, not Ariel. '
  created: '2009-01-31 18:00:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Yehan (Mark) that was an inside joke about my forthcoming new text Caslon.
    It's actually not going to be in the same 'space', as it is not so condensed as
    Times New Roman. I have tried to make it better for many uses, but certainly not
    for all. \r\n\r\nWhat Times New Roman did better than any previous face was to
    cram more letters into the line while remaining very readable, and also achieving
    a crisp, modern look. The trick, which according to one story was Stanley Morrison's
    idea, was to put the sharp, lapidary serifs of Gill's Perpetua onto Monotype Plantin.
    This concept--very well executed by Victor Lardent--made Plantin look more modern
    and crisp. (There is an alternative theory of the origin of Times Roman, which
    may be true, but this one reveals what is distinctive about it.)\r\n\r\nTimes
    Roman shines at small sizes in narrow columns, and in small format books. The
    main weakness of Times New Roman to my eyes is that it is a trifle too condensed
    and dark. \r\n\r\nIt is severely compromised with normal margins on letter sized
    office stationary. At sizes that are good for Times the measure--line length--is
    too long for comfortable reading. In that sense it was not a great choice for
    computers, as most of the output from computer goes onto letter sized paper. But
    it is still one of the great faces of the 20th century. \r\n\r\nOf course it is
    so ubiquitous that if you want a fresh or distinctive look, it is much easier
    to go for an alternative. Still, good designers sometimes figure out how to make
    it look good and fresh again. "
  created: '2009-01-31 20:54:13'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: '<em>@W. Berkson, with a nod to R. Man:</em> Only one "r" in Stanley Morison. '
  created: '2009-01-31 22:34:20'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "Times, used well:\r\n\r\nhttp://coudal.com/"
  created: '2009-02-01 18:39:07'
- author:
    name: buddhaboy
    picture: 112340
  body: "ROFLMAO... a bit off topic but\r\n\r\nI saw that van with the Comic Sans
    and TNR - sublime, and poignant... Driving home today with my wife in the car,
    and she pointed out the new sign outside a hotel for which I had designed a logo
    a couple of years ago...\r\n\r\nIt had lovely flowing swashes linking two word
    forms, and now their new sign has the logo with their web address bolted to the
    top of the swash links, probably using \"fit text to path\" in CorelDraw... I
    saw CorelDraw as that is what signwriters use around here and only a signwriter
    could destroy a perfectly lovely logo by sticking a web address in small sized
    arial along elements of the logotype!\r\n\r\nI say there should be a thread here
    showing how logo's have been later destroyed by well-meaning third parties."
  created: '2009-02-01 19:11:02'
- author:
    name: buddhaboy
    picture: 112340
  body: Marcox, would I be wrong to observe that the leading on those sub headings
    is a bit tight? I have to say though, it's nice to see serif faces on the web,
    even TNR at larger sizes.
  created: '2009-02-01 19:13:53'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: 'Well, we''ve got the other "common" font, Palatino, which seems to get underused.
    We''ve got the Nova version now, but I''ve always liked the old one. '
  created: '2009-02-01 20:38:04'
- author:
    name: merkri
  body: 'TNR is overused, but it''s really beautiful, and to be honest, it excels
    in efficient, legible use of space while maintaining a formal appearance. It also
    helps that TNR is essentially freely available. If someone were to release a similarly
    compact, efficient, formal text type that is widely and freely available, my guess
    is that would take off as well. There are alternatives, but they don''t have all
    those characteristics simultaneously. '
  created: '2009-02-01 23:30:09'
- author:
    name: paulstonier
    picture: 114324
  body: I think it's more the abuse of TNR that I hate. When used terribly by people
    that don't know any better, simply because it's the default on Microsoft Word,
    it's bound to be misused the most of any other fonts.
  created: '2009-02-02 02:27:45'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">it\u2019s the default on Microsoft Word\r\n\r\nNo it's not. \r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-02 03:22:11'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "Times Roman may be the wonder of the modern age, but it doesn't work for
    signage. It doesn't read well from any distance. In three dimensional signage,
    unless cast in metal, it is a class A pain in the tail. The bold is no help at
    all. And, if I hear one more time \"can't you beef it up?\" I'm going to loose
    my lunch. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-02 04:25:43'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "<ul><li><em>Times Roman may be the wonder of the modern age, but it doesn\u2019t
    work for signage.</em></li></ul>Huh? But why should it? Signage typefaces are
    in a league of their own\u2014like, say, typefaces for the screen, for the phone
    directories, for classified ads, etc. There are a few custom variations of Times
    New Roman\u2014<em>and</em> Times Roman (those are different typefaces)\u2014created
    for specific purposes and uses, like Semibold, Claritas, Series 569, Seven, Medium,
    Small Text, Ten, Eighteen. What would be wrong with developing a special version
    for signage? "
  created: '2009-02-02 06:13:31'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "The original TNR was (of course) conceived for use by the newspaper. Which
    was a very upmarket newspaper at the time: twice as expensive as the rest, printed
    with great care on superior paper. The combination of all this resulted in a very
    nice looking product, which showcased TNR to the fullest.\r\n\r\nLater usage has
    done a lot to diminish this high quality image. And the first digital versions
    were pretty awful, imo.\r\nIt may be just the moment for TNR to make a come back...\r\n\r\n.
    . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-02-02 11:46:11'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "What would be wrong with developing a special version for signage?\r\n\r\n\r\nI'm
    working on it..."
  created: '2009-02-02 12:11:11'
- author:
    name: Yehan
    picture: 112677
  body: Oh help..I'm not sure I'm ready for a "signage" version of TNR. I think it's
    case of usage. I don't appreciate the abuse (of the font and my eyes) but I agree
    TNR has its charms.
  created: '2009-02-02 14:50:47'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Sii: \"TNR, what is it good for...Might be a question for Font Bureau...
    \"\r\n\r\nWe have this currrrrazy hardwiring in our corporate dna that says, if
    a font was good, great or gorgeous 20, 30, 50, 100, or 200 years ago, there's
    a reason. :)\r\n\r\nThe opposite of that, I s'pose, would be that if a font is
    delivered to millions and or billions of users and it remains generally under
    to un-used, it must suck. ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-02 15:56:35'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: I don't like it in signs either. It is a text font and that is how it should
    stay. The problem is that most clients don't agree with that opinion.
  created: '2009-02-02 16:14:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But most clients don't even know what text really means.\r\n(Actually, too
    many <em>type designers</em> don't even know!)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-02 16:36:05'
- author:
    name: paulstonier
    picture: 114324
  body: "I stand corrected. It has been a while since I've been on Microsoft Word.\r\n\r\nNow
    I remember that it was just required by teachers in our school district. They
    required everything to be in 12pt TNR \"double spaced\" in order for them to gage
    the length of papers and a sense of uniformity. Strangely enough, it would not
    surprise me for that being partly responsible for such a gross use of it."
  created: '2009-02-02 19:45:08'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "@dfboyd: Asked Vincent \"Comic Sans Designer\" Connare at ROFLthing: \"Is
    Helvetica cool again? And is it because of that movie?\" (A: \"Yes, and Yes.\")
    \ \r\n\r\nHelvetica is cool again. \r\n\r\nbut Comic Sans is such a laugh you
    gotta love it. It's feck'n funny as hell.. nothing brings out the emotion like
    the dog in ya. "
  created: '2009-02-02 22:56:43'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: I designed our church's new sign at one point; gave full specs to the sign
    shop as to what fonts to use etc... they went and did it in TNR (without giving
    us any chance to proof before making the final signs!), and as a result, it's
    virtually unreadable from a distance. To add insult to injury, shortly after the
    new sign was installed, before we could do anything, the company went out of business.
    I cringe inwardly every time I see this sign. And since I'm the pastor, I'm there
    almost every day...
  created: '2009-02-03 04:24:01'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Proof that God has a sense of humor, and is a typophile! '
  created: '2009-02-03 04:52:44'
- author:
    name: bergh
  body: 'Jop Van Bennekom manages to make TNR look smart and sexy in his Fantastic
    Man magazine: [[http://www.fantasticman.com|fantasticman.com]]'
  created: '2009-02-03 05:53:20'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "Metalfoot, I'm sorry to hear about that. It sounds as if they knew they were
    going under (perhaps rightly so considering their customer service). I'm only
    a flunky in my shop, but I always try to steer us away from TNR.\r\n\r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n\r\n[[http://www.thefontry.com|<em>...from
    the Fontry </em>]]"
  created: '2009-02-03 11:39:56'
- author:
    name: Yehan
    picture: 112677
  body: 'Looked at that Fantastic Man: I must say he uses it well..but I still get
    the niggly feeling it would be better if it was another serif. Strangely enough
    though, for awhile I thought TNR was making a comeback(did it ever go out?) in
    magazines like Fantastic Man..very "indie". '
  created: '2009-02-03 13:22:46'
- author:
    name: Timo Ilola
    picture: 115929
  body: "TNR did do a comeback in magazines, but that happened already some time ago,
    so it's starting to feel bit pass\xE9 to use it nowadays. Beside of FM, I\xB4m
    thinking of Self Service, 032c, the Finnish Kasino... And a long list of great
    looking magazines. Great type when used wisely, precisely because of it's over-use,
    as it has converted it into an \"archetypical\" serif that doens't draw attention
    to the choise of typography."
  created: '2009-02-08 19:08:01'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "It's everywhere because it's still the most readable serif font in existence,
    with the best economy of space. In fact, the interplay between TNR's readability
    and economy of space is as close to perfection as you can get. The result? The
    font itself is invisible, and relative to other serifs that display one kind of
    affectation or another, TNR actually *helps* the reader.\r\n\r\nIf you take a
    closer look, however, you'll find a liveliness and beauty in even the digital
    version of TNR. It's a work of genius. Most of the other digital classics, like
    Bembo, Jenson, even Garamonds of one kind or another, even modern greats like
    Freight, Arno, etc., fade in comparison to TNR in terms of readability. \r\n\r\nIt's
    \"overused\" for a reason. It's a shame that its apparent overuse has prejudiced
    so many against it.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-10 22:40:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the most readable serif font in existence\r\n\r\nCodswallop, my friend.
    Take any setting using TNR, and I can guarantee it can be made more readable without
    using more space by using another font. Not by relying on one pre-determined font,
    but by using a font suited to the point size, line length, paper, etc.\r\n\r\nTimes
    hasn't been optimal for many decades.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-10 23:06:52'
- author:
    name: elliot100
    picture: 110615
  body: ">> it\u2019s the default on Microsoft Word\r\n\r\n> No it\u2019s not. \r\n\r\nYes
    it is.\r\n\r\nAt least, it is up to Office 03 on Windows, which a lot of people,
    especially large corporates, are still using. And even when they switch to 07
    which defaults to Calibri, that's a lot of legacy documents.\r\n\r\nI am not sure
    about Macs."
  created: '2009-03-11 09:18:52'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: 'Even old matrix printers had it. I guess it is the most hated. '
  created: '2009-03-15 01:33:47'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Yes it is. At least, it is up to Office 03 on Windows\r\n\r\nCheck the calendar
    - it's now 2009 :-P\r\n\r\n>which a lot of people, especially large corporates,
    are still using. \r\n\r\nThat's like saying Bush is the president - after all
    he was president for 8 years, Obama only  a couple of months. \r\n\r\n>And even
    when they switch to 07 which defaults to Calibri, that\u2019s a lot of legacy
    documents.\r\n\r\nSorry, that doesn't make it \"the default\", but thanks for
    playing ;-) "
  created: '2009-03-15 01:59:53'
date: '2009-01-29 15:38:39'
title: Why is Times New Roman EVERYWHERE?

---
