---
author:
  name: petezoe
  picture: 116775
body: "My first post. I've been lurking here for a while, but just signed up. \r\n\r\nI'm
  learning about book design with a specific goal in mind -- namely, laying out my
  own novel to publish with a POD firm (BookSurge). I want the design to look modern
  -- not experimental or edgy, mind you, but nevertheless fully up-to-date. I'm using
  Whitman for the text. I've chosen Scala Sans for the dust jacket, and may also use
  it for the running headers and chapter titles. When I'm happy with my design, I'll
  post a couple of pages over in the critique section.\r\n\r\nFirst, I need to decide
  whether to go with full justification or ragged right. I set the first chapter both
  ways and printed out the pages. The more I looked at them, the more attractive and
  readable the RR version came to seem. I'd all but decided to go in that direction.\r\n\r\nBut.\r\n\r\nLast
  night I had some time to kill, and I browsed a few dozen books at Barnes & Noble,
  and I was a little bit surprised to find <em>very</em> few books set that way. Out
  of the I-don't-know-how-many I looked at, I found precisely four set ragged right,
  all by the same author, Ali Smith. The latest of her books, a hardcover short story
  collection, didn't seem particularly well-designed. Very undistinguished typeface
  at a very large size, bland cover. The whole thing might just as well have been
  produced with Word. \r\n\r\nI really genuinely prefer the look of the text set RR,
  but since FJ is clearly <em>so</em> overwhelmingly more common, would it look like
  an amateurish mistake? The design should fit the text and so on, but is full justification
  such an unwavering element in the design of novels that I daren't buck tradition?"
comments:
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "You are in a predicament, but also in fine company. The 1979 Pan Books edition
    of <em>The Hitch Hiker\u2019s Guide to the Galaxy</em> by Douglas Adams was set
    unjustified, ranged left. It is the only novel I know of like that. I always thought
    that it was an example of early computer euphoria/intoxication (the cover is a
    fuzzy screen dump of an early colour computer type).\r\n\r\nAll the other books
    in the series, starting in 1980 are set justified."
  created: '2009-01-29 22:30:14'
- author:
    name: agostini
    picture: 111280
  body: "I prefer it left justified. A nicely set left justified text block looks
    just beautiful.\r\nBut the downside of having it that way is the work and time.
    It takes\r\na while to get the ragging right for one paragraph. And if you're
    talking about\r\na book, you will sit there for ever... \r\n\r\na think this is
    the reason most books are justified"
  created: '2009-01-29 23:20:25'
- author:
    name: petezoe
    picture: 116775
  body: "Yes... I see your point.\r\n\r\nI read these posts earlier on my phone, when
    I was waiting for a coffee at the B&N. I decided to see if <em>Hitchhiker's</em>
    had been reset. Yes, it has. Justified.\r\n\r\nHowever, I then checked the Ali
    Smith books again. (There are three of them: <em>Boy Meets Girl</em>, <em>The
    Accidental</em>, and <em>Hotel World</em>. And then there's the latest, <em>First
    Person,</em> which is a collection of short stories.)\r\n\r\nLeaving aside <em>First
    Person</em>, which didn't look good to me, they really are well done. No hyphenation
    at all, and yet the ragging is incredibly even. It's difficult to believe that
    happened by pure chance, but if there were variations in spacing, they were imperceptible,
    at least to my eye.\r\n\r\nBy contrast, the chapter that I set in Indy is noticeably
    raggedy, even with hyphenation.\r\n\r\nHarumph."
  created: '2009-01-30 02:30:55'
- author:
    name: Yehan
    picture: 112677
  body: "I work on books for a living. We usually do it left justified too(using Indesign
    yeah?) It can take sometime, and you do need to get your baseline grid set up
    (or it will be PAIN) but it's definitely worth it. NOTE: you will need to do some
    editing of the text here and there to make lines fit.\r\n\r\nThat said, ragged
    right is very pleasant too. I don't see why you shouldn't do it unless you end
    up having loads of spaces everywhere. I think the reason most books are justified
    is probably cos it looks ever so slightly tidier..."
  created: '2009-01-30 02:32:00'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: 'Now I think  of it, there would be a really good reason to set long text
    ragged right: that''s what poetry looks like. If your book can genuinely aspire
    to that, go for it. '
  created: '2009-01-30 06:01:05'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: 'Just a note: setting <cite>good</cite> ragged right for extended text takes
    every bit as much time as setting justified. Perhaps more time, as you usually
    have to fight the layout program more.'
  created: '2009-01-30 15:00:52'
- author:
    name: petezoe
    picture: 116775
  body: "@paragraph: I suspect that's why the Ali Smith books are set that way. There
    is, in fact, a long poem-like section in the middle of <em>The Accidental</em>.
    I did consciously aim for a lyrical style. I don't know if \"poetic\" is too much
    to claim...\r\n\r\n@Yehan & charles_e: I did actually think RR would be easier,
    till I compared the Ali Smith books to what InDesign did to my text. It's gonna
    be difficult to get right. But I think I'm going to give it a go.\r\n\r\nThanks!"
  created: '2009-01-30 16:39:05'
- author:
    name: Yehan
    picture: 112677
  body: All the best...keep at it! ..Indesign is good, but not great, you really do
    have to "fight the layout program"
  created: '2009-01-31 01:06:55'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "The best layout engine I ever used to set ragged was (plain) TeX, with a
    number of macros and careful adjustment of both the penalties and demerits.\r\n\r\nEven
    so, for a long text, a lot of handwork would be involved if you had \"theories\"
    on what made for good ragged composition. Enough handwork so that you wouldn't
    want to pay my bill (I set type for money). Easier to abandon the theories and
    just look at the results, and with that objective, the doctored TeX would do quite
    nice work.\r\n\r\nIf your novel is a to be a visual work of art, meant to first
    satisfy you as a visual artist, have at it. If you want to give your audience
    an easier time reading the text (does this take away from the visual art side?),
    set it justified."
  created: '2009-01-31 01:59:35'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "If, when you did your initial chapter trials, the FL/RR setting looked significantly
    more \"readable\" than the Justified (and not just more \"attractive\" -- i.e.,
    not just a visual preference for the overall look of RR), then I might suggest
    that your H&J settings may not be optimum.\r\n\r\nBad H&Js can make it less than
    a fair fight between FL/RR and Justified. \r\n\r\nAs Charles says, if this is
    primarily vanity press (I don't mean that pejoratively) then you should do what
    pleases you. \r\n\r\nIf, on the other hand, you want your novel to occur as a
    familiar and professional object, then justified is by far the more conventional
    approach, and you would do well to take time to get your settings (type size,
    leading, measure, margins, H&Js) worked out just so.\r\n\r\n-- Kent."
  created: '2009-01-31 13:52:22'
- author:
    name: petezoe
    picture: 116775
  body: "Well, I <em>did</em> say the RR was more readable, and it <em>was</em> --
    slightly. But more than that, I just liked the way RR looked. The differences
    in readability were not enormous. \r\n\r\nI did fiddle with the H&Js, following
    the suggestions I found here:\r\n\r\n[[http://typophile.com/node/36691]]\r\n\r\nBut
    I wouldn't say I lavished a great deal of attention on that process. At the time
    I was just trying to get my game into the right ballpark, so it <em>would</em>
    be a fair competition  between the two.\r\n\r\nIn the end, I think if I'm to err,
    it should be on the side of convention. I want this to be a book, not an art project.
    Besides, it's a fairly long book, and I'm new at this, and it's probably best
    not to make this stuff too difficult for myself.\r\n\r\nSo far, here's what I've
    got.\r\n\r\nI'm using Whitman 10.5/14 x 27p0.\r\n\r\nHyphenation: words with at
    least 5 letters, after first 3 letters, before last 3 letters, hyphen limit 2,
    hyphenation zone .25\".\r\n\r\nI thought I'd saved the FJ version, but I didn't.
    Rats. I'm gonna have to work through the justification settings again.\r\n\r\nBut
    hey, this is the fun part, right?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-31 23:40:39'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I don't know if Kent will comment, since Whitman is his typeface, so let
    me make it a little easier for him, by saying a few things. If I say something
    egregious, he can take that as a starting point. \r\n\r\nFirst of all, 27 picas
    sounds a bit much, at least, if you're aiming for a nice trade look. This isn't
    so much for the length of the lines, but the margins.\r\n\r\nMargins depend on
    binding, not only \"cloth\" or \"paperback,\" but \"sewn\" or \"notch.\" The binding
    fixes the gutter margin; that has a lot of influence on the others. The outside
    (fore edge) should be a little larger than the gutter. Top should be a minimum
    of 1/2 inch to the top of the running head, if you are using one. Given todays
    folding & trimming, I like 9/16. The foot margin should be at least an inch. Notice
    the \"at least.\"\r\n\r\nAs for only allowing hyphenation after three letters:
    Remember that two letters plus a hyphen has more or less the visual weight of
    three letters. If you banish two letters plus a hyphen, a number of long words
    don't work. \"because\" comes to mind -- a lot of the \"be-\" and \"de-\" prefixes
    (\"defeated \"also comes to mind, as I can't think of a \"de\" prefix, etc.).
    A long word starting with \"m\" or \"w\", that's a lot of space.\r\n\r\nWe use
    a custom dictionary; you could (laboriously) make such words be~~~cause in your
    hyphenation dictionary; the three tildes add a significant penalty, so if the
    program chooses to break there, you know it is to avoid a really loose line. Etc.\r\n\r\nI
    imagine when Kent said play with the H&J settings, he meant minimum and ideal
    word spaces. Because the comps at our shop are timid, I go into the fonts and
    change the nominal word space width so an InDesign setting of 75 minimum (usually,
    sometimes 80) and 100 ideal works pretty well. For that reason, I don't remember
    Whitman's nominal value. I seem to remember it is small -- Kent would know. Set
    the minimum so it is just a bit too tight, but still readable -- this value won't
    be used too often. Set the ideal so a paragraph set ragged looks good. Forget
    about the maximum, all it controls is the number & color of problem lines, if
    you toggle that on. InDesign ain't TeX, more's the pity.\r\n\r\nGood luck."
  created: '2009-02-01 02:35:33'
- author:
    name: petezoe
    picture: 116775
  body: "Wow! That is helpful beyond measure!\r\n\r\nI've already changed the margins
    and hyphenation as you suggested. My printer's been otherwise occupied, so I haven't
    been able to test out the justification settings yet. I think I'll leave it as
    a task for tomorrow. But I'm in <em>much</em> better shape than I was a couple
    of hours ago.\r\n\r\n<em>Thank you!</em>"
  created: '2009-02-01 04:14:45'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "I am getting confused here, do you want the setting to be justified or ragged
    right?\r\n\r\nIf you use unjustified, ragged right: the minimum, desired and maximum
    word spaces as well as the letter spacings will be ignored by the layout software,
    and you should turn hyphenation off. Experiment with the Paragraph vs Single line
    Composer setting.\r\n\r\nThe word- and letter-spacing should only enter the fray
    for justified text. Wordspace: 80/100/120, letterspace: -3/0/3, glyphs: 98/100/102
    settings are a conservative rule of thumb, with hyphenation like this (fairly
    safe):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hyph_3969.png]\r\n\r\nGood luck!"
  created: '2009-02-01 04:50:30'
- author:
    name: Dan B.
    picture: 114033
  body: '[Tracking]'
  created: '2009-02-01 12:28:46'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>If you use unjustified, ragged right: the minimum, desired and maximum
    word spaces as well as the letter spacings will be ignored by the layout software</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    don't believe this is quite true. I haven't set that much ragged copy using InDesign
    --  a few indexes -- and am ashamed to say I haven't done a test to be sure. But
    from the days when I was a full-time comp, I always used a little variation in
    space to aid in setting ragged text, about 2% of an em. With the old 18-unit em,
    typical spaceband values for ragged setting would be 4.33-4.66-4.99. That would
    be equivalent to 98%-100%-102% with InDesign. That 2% is equal to about 4 units
    of space, not visible. But with 9 spaces on a line, that's an extra 72 units on
    a line for the program to play with (with the plus and minus), and sometimes that
    helps.\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>and you should turn hyphenation off.</cite>\r\n\r\nWell,
    that's one of those theories I mentioned above. You can make an argument for it,
    but remember that turning off hyphenation is a compromise. You are compromising
    the amount of space at the end of the line by banishing hyphens. Viewed one way,
    ragged and justified are the same. With ragged setting, the amount of space that
    \"won't fit\" is thrown to the end of the line; with justified setting, it is
    distributed between words. Technically the same problem, and the same compromises
    are at play.\r\n\r\nAnother thing I use to do with TeX was to specify hfuzz. hfuzz
    was a value that a line could be overset. With justified setting, I'd use about
    .5 points. With ragged setting, I'd use about 3 points. As there really is no
    right margin, there is nothing to tell the eye exactly where the margin is, unless
    you set running head/folio block flush outside. But even here, the RH/folio is
    about 2 picas above the first text line, and even if the first text line is 3
    points long, it won't show in a reading environment.\r\n\r\nInDesign doesn't have
    an exact equivalent. You can change the text frame on individual pages, which
    would be handwork; not programmable. Also, that affects every line & so is a little
    different, but it is a tool you can use.\r\n\r\nTeX let you specify the degree
    of raggness, too. \\rightskip 0pt would be justified. \\rightskip 0pt plus 1fil
    is unlimited ragged. \\rightskip 0pt plus 12 points specified a maximum of 1 pica
    of whitespace on the right margin. We use to play with the \"plus\" amount on
    individual titles, getting a final value that looked reasonable with a specific
    text and design, and with only a passable amount of handwork required to resolve
    problems.  \r\n\r\nI don't believe InDesign has an equivalent setting. It would
    be nice.\r\n\r\nThere were other settings -- hyphen penalty and double hyphen
    demerits, but there are more or less equivalent  settings in InDesign.\r\n\r\nNote:
    the \\rightskip 0pt plus . . .\" etc. above isn't the proper syntax for TeX, I
    added the spaces to make it readable."
  created: '2009-02-01 14:52:31'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "I can't imagine Charles saying anything egregious on this topic. He's a consummate
    professional and he knows his stuff. I don't disagree with anything he's said.
    \r\n\r\nYour 27p measure is a little long for 10.5pt Whitman. But it sounds like
    you may have changed that already. Incidentally, the <em>Virginia Quarterly Review</em>
    uses Whitman at 11pt on a line measure of ~27p; that works better. (The trim is
    6.75 x 10 inches and the margins are generous.)\r\n\r\nI am of the opinion that
    hyphenation is generally not a huge impediment to readability. I prefer a limit
    of 3 hyphens to a stack, to give the composition engine more room to find optimum
    spacing. And I prefer to set that slider in the Indd Hyphenation Settings dialog
    box further to the left, toward better spacing. My default setting is three clicks
    in from the left. \r\n\r\nCharles is right: I was more concerned with the justification
    settings. This is the more significant variable, in my opinion.\r\n\r\nThe nominal
    word space value in Whitman is a modest 220. Charles's 75% minimum yields 165
    (about one sixth em). I think these are good settings for Whitman. The maximum
    setting doesn't actually mean that you won't have any word spaces larger than
    your specification, because the fact of the matter is that when all else fails,
    the composition engine will give up and throw extra word space into the line as
    a last resort. The maximum only really matters if your settings also allow some
    positive letter spacing (by signaling the threshold before letter spacing is introduced).\r\n\r\nI
    disagree with Jan/(paragraph)'s rule-of-thumb settings; I don't consider \xB13
    letterspacing or any degree of glyph scaling to be conservative at all. I rarely
    resort to allowing more than \xB11 letterspacing (and usually only for narrow
    column work, preferring none for settings such as we're discussing). I only resort
    to glyph scaling on an ad hoc basis for truly intractable problems.\r\n\r\nBut
    you seem to have ready access to the author in this case, in the event that a
    re-write is in order ;-)\r\n\r\nPerhaps Jan's numbers work as general-purpose
    settings, since the extremes will hopefully rarely occur. Nevertheless, I shudder
    to think of that line that ends up with 80% word spaces, -3% letter spacing, and
    glyphs squooshed 98%. In a newspaper setting, maybe, but not in a book I hope.\r\n\r\n--
    Kent."
  created: '2009-02-01 15:57:51'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "I think that in a FL/RR setting InDesign will throw out some small amount
    of word spacing, on occasion, to squeeze a line in. I don't think it ever adds
    any space to even a rag. I don't know how the settings affect this, if at all.\r\n\r\nEric
    Menninga sometimes happens by these forums, and he would know. I'll drop him a
    line and see if he can shed any light on this matter.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-01 16:06:12'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "When I set up our shops nominal H&J settings for InDesign CS2, I used .1
    (1/10) for both letterspacing and glyph scaling. I couldn't see the effect (still,
    I'm old & have cataracts). This did allow a change in the way ID composed 1 line
    (paragraph) in three pages.\r\n\r\nHard to say without testing just where letterspacing
    & scaling become noticable. We use to play around with the Linotron 202, removing
    one scan line in each character in a line (it used about 960 lines per inch).
    Barely noticable with a loupe & much experience with a font & how its letterforms
    should look. (In passing: you <cite>could</cite> write a program to see the result,
    but it seemed impossible to implement in a production environment.)\r\n\r\nI'm
    all for using whatever a program will allow to aid even word spacing with H&J.
    Remember, in the good old letterpress days, each letter was individually cast.
    You better believe there was variation -- sometimes far too much. Having said
    that, I'd hold it to \"not noticable\" save for fonts that have been designed
    to have alternate characters to aid H&J. To date, I know of none implemented --
    or a program that would make use of them. Another one of Zapf's ideas still waiting
    implementation. "
  created: '2009-02-01 17:38:13'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "<em>Perhaps Jan\u2019s numbers work as general-purpose settings</em>\r\n\r\nExactly,
    Kent, you are quite right. It was meant to be easy and flexible, to allow the
    paging to proceed almost automatically. I was always a bit lazy and keen to maintain
    my hourly rate, and most of the books I did were non-fiction, mainly text books.\r\n\r\nFor
    the hyphenation, I think that UK usage (which I am used to) is more strict than
    the US one (target for the book), so please ignore my hyphenation suggestions."
  created: '2009-02-01 21:40:31'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "The subject of hyphgen stacks came up on another list I'm involved in a few
    days ago. Here are a couple of quotes (unattributed, of course)\r\n\r\n<cite>I
    started at Princeton when they still had the Linotype and letterpress going. The
    guys in the plant hated stacked hyphs because they acted like squeegees and they
    had to stop the presses, clean off the ink, and start again. This was \"form following
    function\" ... now that form has no relevance but we continue to call these bad
    breaks.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>I would rather see 3 or more hyphens in a row than
    manipulated word-spacing (and, gawd forbid, letterspaced justification) << shudder
    >>  AND, since the invention of desktop publishing, AND the enormous list I typeset,
    personally, I haven't seen really good typesetting come out of my own office,
    sighhhh, as I've caved into \"bringing down\" the 2-letter syllables or \"taking
    up\" the \"liquid Ls\" .. shhhhhhh, don't tell anyone.</cite>\r\n\r\nTo which
    came the reply:\r\n\r\n<cite>I'm reminded of designer Bill Cason, who I worked
    for eons ago [. . .], a gentle soul who when provoked to extremes would mutter
    into his beard, \"If all the editors in the world were laid end to end it would
    be a good thing....\"</cite>\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-01 23:00:24'
- author:
    name: petezoe
    picture: 116775
  body: "Thanks again to all! I've implemented some of the suggestions already, and
    I'm going to go through all the posts and tinker with the H&Js as suggested.\r\n\r\nSo
    far, using Charles's suggestions from last night, I've increased all the margins,
    which has reduced the width to 25p6. (The trim size is 6x9\". Margins are 9/16\"
    at top, 1\" bottom and outside, 3/4\" inside. The inside margin comes from the
    printer's specs.)\r\n\r\nI'll post a more detailed reply and updates on my progress
    in a bit. But there were a couple of things I wanted to address now:\r\n\r\n<cite>I
    am getting confused here, do you want the setting to be justified or ragged right?</cite>\r\n\r\nSorry
    about that! Your confusion stems from my own -- for a while there, I was flip-flopping
    every time I viewed the replies to this thread. \r\n\r\nHowever, I have decided
    once and for all to go with full justification.\r\n\r\n<cite>But you seem to have
    ready access to the author in this case, in the event that a re-write is in order
    ;-)</cite>\r\n\r\nI've been trying to come up with a non-shopworn split personality
    joke, but so far, not so good.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-02 00:06:50'
- author:
    name: emenninga
  body: "I haven't been following Typophile for a few weeks (busy) but Kent Lew alerted
    me to this excellent thread. I'll add what I can:\r\n- First of all, as mentioned
    above, it is much easier to make a computer program do really good justified text
    than really good ragged text because justified text has one dominant variable
    (even color) and a variety of lesser factors, but the decisions for ragged text
    are more difficult to codify.\r\n- I know that a debate exists about adding justification
    to ragged lines to even out or clean up the rag. However, InDesign will never
    expand a ragged line. It will compress a line in 2 cases: a line that is somewhat
    longer and has \"no break\" applied, and a line that just barely fits will occasionally
    be made to fit. (barely fits means a fraction of a point)\r\n- We ignore all justification
    settings in ragged text except the desired setting which applies as expected.\r\n\r\nIn
    general, I'm seeing more ragged text: magazines & newspapers seem to be switching
    to a ragged setting. However, these narrower columns can create bad spacing that
    you'll never see in books.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-02 00:32:42'
- author:
    name: jrdn.clrk
  body: "I worked as a PrePress Technician doing book layout for a couple years, and
    in that time probably only set one or two books ragged right. It's definitely
    uncommon, but it has been done. I was surprised to find it in Denzel Washington's
    book:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/Hand-Guide-Me-Denzel-Washington/dp/B001IDZJAE/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1233540871&sr=1-1\r\n\r\nI
    think that book is a collection of short stories, so that might have something
    to do with it. For an entire novel, I don't know if I would recommend it."
  created: '2009-02-02 02:23:09'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "<em>except the desired setting which applies as expected</em>\r\n\r\nOops.
    Quite so. I think I wanted to say that but didn\u2019t :-$"
  created: '2009-02-02 05:01:22'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "One reason why FJ (Fully Justified) is predominant has not been mentioned
    yet: eg the fact that the opacity of most printing papers used for books implicates
    some degree of see-through (transparancy), which in the case of RR (Ragged Right)
    causes a distracting phantom effect on the right side of the page. FJ obscures
    this.\r\n\r\nYou should have a look at the specific product from your POD-provider,
    before you decide on RR.\r\n\r\nBTW: I like RR a lot and find it easier on the
    eye, esp. when speedreading.\r\n\r\n . . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-02-02 11:57:12'
- author:
    name: petezoe
    picture: 116775
  body: "@Bert: Funny you should mention it ... Last night when I was feeding chapters
    into InDesign and printing them out (on cheap paper), I noticed that the FJ block
    makes for a very nice trim block of color when it shows through. With RR it would
    probably look somewhat odd.  \r\n\r\nHowever, I did buy a couple of books printed
    by this company, and the paper is heavy enough to prevent the text from showing
    through. \r\n\r\nI reserve the right (no pun intended) to set a future book RR.
    But as the pages stack up and I flip through them, I am quite liking the familiar
    appearance of rectangular blocks of text. It's all rather, well, booklike."
  created: '2009-02-02 17:28:52'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Glad things are progressing to your satisfaction.\r\n\r\nFor future reference,
    if you ever do decide to pursue the RR route, you might be interested in Eric
    Gill's argument in favor of FL/RR setting. It makes up the chapter entitled, provocatively,
    \"The Procrustean Bed\" in his <cite>An Essay on Typography</cite>."
  created: '2009-02-02 19:05:15'
- author:
    name: petezoe
    picture: 116775
  body: "Hey, Kent,\r\n\r\nI'll check that out. In <em>On Book Design</em>, Hendel
    mentions <em>Essay on Typography</em>,  in reference to Gill's use of paragraph
    symbols instead of indentations. And now I think I understand Hendel's later allusion
    to Procrustes as well.\r\n\r\nThanks for the tip!\r\n\r\nMatt\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-03 02:25:46'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "The notion of running in paragraphs and using a pilcrow to denote new paragraphs
    reminds me of a book I set in the early 1990s -- it was all one paragraph. The
    book was designed by Mary Mendell, entered in the AAUP Book Show, and selected.
    The juror remarked that the single paragraph was a bit hard to read, but the incredibly
    even word spacing (it was set justified) helped a lot.\r\n\r\nWish I could take
    credit. We were using TeX, and if you give TeX's paragraph optimization routine
    enough material to work on, it will find line breaks while maintaining \"incredibly
    even\" word spacing.\r\n\r\nThat was the days of the 286 chip; I could get about
    four pages worth of text into memory for TeX to work on. It would be much more
    today. The only composition task was to determine where to \"break\" into a \"new,\"
    albeit unsignaled, \"paragraph.\"\r\n\r\nUsing a run-in paragraph style & a pilcrow
    would work even better with the enormous machine-memory available today. The only
    thing I don't know whether or not Adobe's change to Knuth's paragraph optimization
    routine (which enabled Adobe to get a patent) would give as good a result as plain
    TeX with this technique."
  created: '2009-02-03 03:20:51'
- author:
    name: emenninga
  body: "InDesign shipped the first 2 versions (1.0 & 1.5) with a variant of Knuth's
    TeX algorithm. The general algorithm builds a tree like structure traversing the
    paragraph determining the optimal layout. As Charles says, it works well when
    you give it enough material to work on. However, it also (especially our implementation)
    was memory intensive, and, in a desktop WYSIWYG application, isn't allowed to
    \"fail\".  This lead to the user attributes in versions 1.0 & 1.5 that controlled
    the width & breadth of the tree of possibilities. The patent received for that
    engine was specific to this dynamic pruning of the tree.\r\nHowever, since version
    2.0 of InDesign, we no longer use this tree-building algorithm. A colleague on
    Adobe Illustrator found a description/proof of an algorithm that optimally composed
    an entire paragraph in a table whose size was a fixed multiple of the paragraph
    size (number of breaks) which is much better than the exponentially growing tree
    we used before. We received 3 patents for making this algorithm more general purpose
    (e.g. supporting non-rectangular text frames).\r\nHowever, there is still the
    question about what to do with enormous paragraphs. The truth is that if the paragraph
    exceeds a fixed size (8000 characters) we switch quietly to the single line composer
    (throw shoes here). This number could be increased, given it was first set 10
    years ago, but we do need an upper limit. The switch doesn't stick and if the
    paragraph gets smaller again, we'll use the paragraph composer again.\r\nSo, long
    answer to a short question: InDesign will NOT set that book well because we don't
    have the ability to composer partial paragraphs except a line at a time."
  created: '2009-02-03 22:48:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Professional publishers have long established routines and workflows. Most
    have been setting books justified for centuries. Ragged right is the new guy in
    book work and has not burst through established procedures often.\r\nIf you are
    doing your own book, you have a choice that comes with the willingness to do the
    work. So what if one way or another takes more time to do, it is your own book
    so do it your own way (whatever that is). Whatever way that is, do it well. Test
    a few pages different ways and choose the best. Then, just put in the time and
    effort it takes to do a good job. You have to love it to do it and I assume you
    care about your own writing.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-02-04 01:04:58'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Chris,\r\n\r\nThe point I, and I think Kent, was trying to make above is
    that there are two considerations, what the author wants to show the world (regardless
    of how much work), but also what the reading audience expects to see.\r\n\r\nI've
    been involved with \"experimental art\" enough years to come to think it an oxymoron,
    and have no sympathy for anyone who wants to do something different & then complains
    when it isn't well received.\r\n\r\nWhich isn't to say don't do it -- you picks
    your audience & lives with it.\r\n\r\n* * *\r\n\r\nEric, Thanks for the explanation.
    You're safe from me; I try not to wear shoes. Just soft house slippers."
  created: '2009-02-04 02:08:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I have a theory that it is easier to read justified text because the parafovea--blurry
    peripheral vision--can see the edge of the text block and as a result plan the
    next saccade more efficiently. \r\n\r\nI say this just to indicate that there
    are issues other than evenness of word spacing, and these may in the end be more
    important. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-04 02:27:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...also what the reading audience expects to see.\"\r\n\r\nThere is not
    enough evidence to prove one way or the other which the audience will read better,
    flushleft or justified. There is more to be said for how well it is done than
    which you choose. That is all I meant. What I said was make your choice and do
    a good job of it. It is that simple.\r\nWhat the audience expects to sees has
    evolved over time and will continue to do so. Once upon a time it was expected
    that what was to be read would be written in blackletter. Later, it was expected
    to be set in a type version of blackletter. But, people never being satisfied
    with an eternity of the status quo, they moved on to hundreds of different roman
    types with a splash of sans entering the fray in the 20th century. If you want
    to strictly adhere to the notion of what is expected, then by all means, set everything
    in justified Times Roman, Garamond, or Caslon. You will then never have to dip
    your toe in the murky waters of change. It is OK to be fearful of trying something
    a tad different that the most conservative norms of the past. You will never suffer
    disappointment if that is what you are after. Some people might just want to taste
    something new for lunch once in a while. I hope we are not too afraid to at least
    allow a few new things on the menu for those folks to try? \r\n\r\nThere is nothing
    to fear but fear itself :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-02-04 02:56:50'
- author:
    name: petezoe
    picture: 116775
  body: "I've implemented all the suggestions that were brought up in this thread's
    earlier incarnation. I've been meaning to post some sample pages, but I got swamped
    with other stuff -- plus I was thinking I should probably go through the whole
    book with a fine-toothed comb and look for rivers and whatnot. But then I realized
    I'm still going to be making some edits for length, so it's premature to break
    out the comb, fine-toothed or otherwise.\r\n\r\nSo. I thought I'd post a few pages
    and see what y'all think so far. \r\n\r\nUnfortunately, I can't seem to attach
    an image to this post. I don't know what I'm doing wrong, but when I click \"insert
    image,\" the file open dialog box pops up with all the files grayed out. \r\n\r\nInstead,
    here are some links:\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://mattdean.info/RIW/i.jpg\">Half Title</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://mattdean.info/RIW/iii.jpg\">Title</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://mattdean.info/RIW/iv.jpg\">Copyright
    Info</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://mattdean.info/RIW/vii.jpg\">Epigraph</a>\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://mattdean.info/RIW/101.jpg\">Chapter Title</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://mattdean.info/RIW/102.jpg\">Verso</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://mattdean.info/RIW/103.jpg\">Recto</a>\r\n\r\nOh, yeah, some details,
    for those who are interested...\r\n\r\nThe margins are 3/4\" inside and 1\" bottom
    and outside. It's about 1/2 an inch to the running header, 7/8\" from the top
    of the page to the text.\r\n\r\nFor body text I used Whitman 10.5/14 x 25p6. \r\n\r\nHyphenation:
    \r\n\r\n  words of at least 5 letters\r\n  after first 2 letters\r\n  before last
    3 letters\r\n  hyphen limit 2 hyphens\r\n  hyphenation zone 1p6\r\n\r\nJustification:\r\n\r\n
    \ word spacing: 75/100/125\r\n  letter spacing: -.1/0/.1\r\n  glyph scaling: 100/100/100\r\n\r\nThe
    sans used on the title page and in the running headers is Scala Sans. The chapter
    numbers and page numbers are Whitman, though. The Scala Sans numbers seemed a
    little too big, and making them smaller didn't look right, either.\r\n\r\nThanks
    again to everyone for your help earlier. "
  created: '2009-02-19 04:09:48'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: 'Looks nice and polite. My two cents: half-title, title and chapter opening
    bear no design resemblance, should use the same thinking, or perhaps a similar
    theme should be carried through. The imprint and especially the poem (epigraph)
    would be better with no hyphenation: ego-tisms and self-con-victed might make
    Walt spin wherever he is now.'
  created: '2009-02-19 08:59:48'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Matt,\r\n\r\nI'm tempted to echo the \"tie it together\" comment, but I also
    remember Richard Eckersley's portion of a panel where he chronicled the problems
    and a resulting disaster (in his mind) of trying to tie all the front matter pages
    together. He came to the conclusion that they are all unique pages, and sometimes
    require unique treatments. I believe he mentioned that either Rogers or Dwiggins
    had presaged this. Tying the front matter pages together falls into the \"nice
    if you can get it\" category, which needs to be abandoned if the text/material
    requires it. Shoehorning a design is as bad as shoehorning a text. \r\n\r\nWhere
    I think you could use some work is on the CT, HT, and title page. You have movement
    on the title page and chapter titles, but the title page builds up a strong vertical
    line in the center, whereas the chapter openers build a stronger wandering line.
    You could try moving the title (on the title page) right, and the imprint quite
    a bit left, still keeping the ragged left/ragged right structure they now have.
    That would suggest your chapter title solution.\r\n\r\nIt might also look terrible.
    Such playfullness has to\r\nset, printed out, and looked at after a passage of
    some time. You also have to be willing to look at the piece as \"it\" rather than
    \"mine.\"\r\n\r\n\r\nThe thing with the half title is it looks so conventional.
    Turn the page, and \"surprise.\" This rarely works well . . . visual tension and
    release need to occur on the same spread. But you almost pull it off, since the
    halftitle itself doesn't introduce tension, just sets you up for it. I'm not quite
    sure the title page resolves the initial surprise.\r\n\r\nWhen you don't use ornamentation,
    you wind up using space for the same effect. This is what I do, too. I have no
    skill with using ornaments, and not too much with using rules. But space offers
    similar opportunities . . . \r\n\r\nIt looks to me like you have carried it off
    well, but to be sure, print out the pages, trim them to final size, and slip them
    in a bound book. That will show you the spatial arrangements as they will be in
    the final book.\r\n\r\nGood luck with it,\r\n\r\nCharles"
  created: '2009-02-19 13:26:59'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "I have just not had the time I wanted to devote to this thread. & that's
    too bad (for me), for this sort of discussion is my meat and potatoes, my chorizo
    and eggs.\r\n\r\nFor now let me say that the chapter opener needs work. That initial
    is not working.\r\n\r\n**  It is too bold for the rest of the page and the rather
    delicate look of the rest of the book. If you wish to use such a large initial,
    use a Titling or a Display or a Light face. They are drawn proportionately lighter
    than text faces, so they do not overpower when set large.\r\n\r\n**  The difficulty
    of using initial caps (drop or stick-up) shows when you have such an unfortunate
    combination as \"at\". Poor little \"t\" is stranded there, not connected to anything.
    It needs to be drawn over close to \"A\" so the word unit is retained. \r\n\r\n**
    \ & then we get back to the weight of the \"A\", for it will now really overshadow
    the \"t\".\r\n\r\n**  When an initial cap \"A\" starts things off, the left ends
    of subsequent lines need to \"slide\" down the right stroke of \"A\". \"I\" starting
    the 2nd line is far too close to the cap. It should be at least the distance of
    an average word space away from the bottom serif of \"A\".\r\n\r\nI also think
    that perhaps the chapter number is too large or the chapter title is too small.
    But I do not know how many chapters, nor do I know the longest/shortest chapter
    titles. But I sure am glad you did not include the word \"Chapter\" with the number.
    That's one of the dumbest redundancies in book design; thanks.\r\n\r\nI may have
    a few more thoughts, but the day's travail is starting to roll in. So I sign off
    for now.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2009-02-19 14:39:20'
- author:
    name: petezoe
    picture: 116775
  body: "Thanks for the feedback!\r\n\r\nFirst, I totally agree about the hyphenation
    in the epigraph. I think somewhere along the line hyphenation got turned on by
    mistake when I synced styles in my InDesign book document. But in any case, I
    hadn't noticed it.\r\n\r\nHere are a couple of additional samples...\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://mattdean.info/RIW/1.jpg\">Part Title</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://mattdean.info/RIW/Jetty.pdf\">Jacket
    (PDF)</a>\r\n\r\n(It's the hardcover dust jacket. I put some markers in the bleed
    area to show where the flaps and spine fall, etc. Those will be removed before
    printing, obviously. Oh, and presumably Philip Roth's \"blurb\" will be replaced
    with a real one.) \r\n\r\nI used the part title as a model for the half-title,
    and the front cover as a model for the title page. Knowing this may clarify my
    process, without making the actual design make more sense?\r\n\r\nIn any case,
    I've already printed everything out. All the pages are sitting in a box at the
    moment, until I can come back to them with slightly fresher eyes. The idea of
    trimming everything down and binding the pages is a great one. I printed the crop
    marks, but there's still all this white space around the trim area, meaning it's
    difficult to see exactly how it's going to look at size, on paper. I think it'll
    help a lot to have the thing trimmed and bound in my hand.\r\n\r\nOne thing that
    occurs to me is that I might change the chapter title rather than the title. Perhaps
    the chapter number and title could be leftish and the text could be rightish,
    to mimic the arrangement of the title page. I can <em>almost</em> see it in my
    mind's eye.\r\n\r\nAnyway. Thanks again for the great feedback and suggestions!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-19 14:39:58'
- author:
    name: petezoe
    picture: 116775
  body: "Oh, hey, I totally missed the thing about the drop cap--I guess you posted
    just before I did, so I thought my own comment was the latest.\r\n\r\nInspired
    by <a href=\"http://kentlew.com/GardenBirdsInterior3.html\">this</a>, I knew I
    wanted a drop cap with a big indent, but whatever I tried there's that giant gap
    between the letter and what follows, and when I played around with converting
    the cap to outlines and flowing text around it, it just got uglier ... And then
    there's that one outlier chapter that starts with a quote, which is weird.\r\n\r\nI
    think maybe I'll play around with doing the first line in small caps or something.\r\n\r\nThere
    was a time in my life when I favored chapter numbers all spelled out, <em>with</em>
    the word \"chapter\"--Chapter Ten, Chapter Eighteen, Chapter Ninety-Eight. I think
    it had something to do with that Neil Simon play, <em>Chapter Two</em>. Nowadays
    I like a number and a title. I guess the number isn't required, really--either
    a number or a title would suffice. That's the way they did it in <em>The Blind
    Assassin</em>, if I recall correctly.\r\n\r\nHmmm...\r\n\r\nThanks!!"
  created: '2009-02-19 19:49:04'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>But I sure am glad you did not include the word \u201CChapter\u201D
    with the number. That\u2019s one of the dumbest redundancies in book design; thanks.</cite>\r\n\r\nWell,
    I've been know on more than one occasion to use CHAPTER ONE (etc.) with, say,
    11-point small caps. A lot of letterspacing, but not so much as to lose the rule-like
    effect. And that's of course the point, to replace a rule.\r\n\r\nMoral, at least
    to me, is that you don't need the word chapter, as Will says, it is redundant.
    But you can use it like an ornament if it helps with the balance on a CO page."
  created: '2009-02-19 20:16:11'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "\"CHAPTER\":\r\nI'll back off a bit, Charles and Matt. I have also used CHAPTER
    as an \"ornament\" on a page. Caps. I do like, though, to get rid of what I consider
    to be \"unnecessary\" type on a page. That's one of them.\r\n\r\nCHAPTER NUMBER:\r\nIf
    the author / editor has given me a text with numbered chapters, I doubt I'd ever
    make the decision to get rid of the numbers. They can be useful guides. Even sometimes
    in fiction. I rarely spell out chapter numbers.\r\n\r\nINITIAL CAP:\r\nTo get
    letters to fit well following an initial cap often does take some doing. Same
    with subsequent lines sliding down the A. Or getting the first line snug to an
    L.\r\n\r\nI have my own set of tricks for that in Quark. As much work as they
    are, they are a walk in the park compared to when I had to do them with a saw
    and files and bits of copper in hot metal. But the boss and other designers demanded
    that sort of thing. It stuck, I guess.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2009-02-19 22:46:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Ragged right for friction.
  created: '2009-02-20 04:17:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Cutting edge at that, Nick :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-02-20 05:10:57'
- author:
    name: petezoe
    picture: 116775
  body: "@will powers: \r\n\r\nRe: \"chapter\": No worries. I wasn't disagreeing about
    the use of the word \"chapter,\" just saying that I used to prefer it, and now
    I don't. I do see how it could have its uses, just not so much in this case. \r\n\r\nRe:
    numbers: I'm the author, so I could dump the chapter number if I wanted, but I'm
    not going to. It was just a fleeting temptation.\r\n\r\n@Nick Shinn & dezcom:
    LOL!"
  created: '2009-02-20 16:53:13'
- author:
    name: petezoe
    picture: 116775
  body: "Some updates...\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://mattdean.info/RIW/iii.jpg\">Title
    Page</a> (Cf. <a href=\"http://mattdean.info/RIW/old-iii.jpg\">old version</a>)\r\n<a
    href=\"http://mattdean.info/RIW/vii.jpg\">Epigraph</a> (without hyphenation)\r\n<a
    href=\"http://mattdean.info/RIW/101.jpg\">Chapter Opening</a> (Cf. <a href=\"http://mattdean.info/RIW/old-101.jpg\">old
    version</a>)\r\n\r\nI definitely prefer the new CO to the old. I'm not sure about
    the title page. It definitely fits with the <a href=\"http://mattdean.info/RIW/i.jpg\">HT</a>
    and <a href=\"http://mattdean.info/RIW/1.jpg\">part title</a>. But maybe it's
    a little plain? And does the arrangement of the author name and imprint make any
    sense? \r\n\r\n(There's a kind of \"notch\" in the imprint, an empty space in
    the upper right corner, as if the author name might have \"exploded\" out of it,
    and this kind of mimics the way the chapter number sits in a big open square on
    the CO page ... or does it?)"
  created: '2009-02-24 00:27:07'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "This CO is a lot more calm; that's good. But it shows us a quandary; or maybe
    it's a quibble. I'm not comfortable with \"THE\" being separated from \"Speaker.\"
    I have almost completely stopped writing specs that say something like \"set the
    entire first line all caps [or all smalls, or italic, or semi, etc].\" I have
    also stopped writing specs that say something like \"set the first 3 words all
    smalls [etc.].\" Because we are bound to run into such \"unnatural\" disruptions.
    It is a syntax/context thing, I suppose. I like to keep together what appear to
    me to be \"natural\" word groups, so the sentence flows better.\r\n\r\n& what
    do we do when we find the first line has to end with a long word which needs to
    be hyphenated? Do we end up setting the word in two different styles? I hope not.\r\n\r\nIn
    this CO \"THE\" could easily be shoved down to connect with \"Speaker,\" but then
    we might have too much word spacing or too much letterspacing. It could be argued
    that this setting could use some tracking in the first line anyway, so that may
    not be a big deal. But far too often there are intractable combinations encountered
    with these kinds of settings.\r\n\r\nBut then I often ask myself, and have just
    asked myself as I type this comment \"Are you crazy, Powers? Are you thinking
    about this too hard?\" Sometimes I can do that.\r\n\r\nOther than that, this works
    nicely. I think I may like it because it is the kind of CO setting I've used often
    enough myself.\r\n\r\nThe title page also looks a bit more \"natural,\" a bit
    less forced than the earlier one.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2009-02-24 14:15:50'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Matt,\r\n\r\nPlease take this in the context that \"You'll never please everyone.\"\r\n\r\nFor
    me, capitals, whether full or small, are formal, strong, \"majestic.\"\r\n\r\nIf
    that's what you want for the first line of each chapter with your novel, OK. But
    again for me, a first line, esp of a story, shouldn't stick out that much. That
    small caps are also in some sense weaker than U&lc (they are smaller in size when
    you include the ascenders) just further complicates matters. Caps can also function
    as a rule, but you're not using rules in your CT, so that's not really at play,
    and it is very hard to make them work as a stand-alone rule.\r\n\r\nBear in mind,
    if you keep posting your design, we're probably going to keep coming back. Some
    of the remarks may be more prejudice than substance. I've been a book show juror
    just once; it was one of the hardest things I've done, because again, you have
    to abandon the \"mine\" (my preferences) & go with the \"it\" (does it work?),
    but when you have 8-10 hours and 400 books, there is so little time to make that
    transition. Much the same on the internet, I fear.\r\n\r\nBest you as the can
    do as the designer of the book is to take the remarks & wonder if something in
    your treatment could make the \"remarker\" see the whole as you see it. Counterweighting
    that, the design also has to be finished.\r\n\r\nCharles"
  created: '2009-02-24 17:40:26'
- author:
    name: petezoe
    picture: 116775
  body: "Powers, thanks much!\r\n\r\nI have run into exactly the problem you describe
    -- but it's even worse in other chapters. For example, something like:\r\n\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;AFTER
    I HAD GONE TO THE SOMETHING OR OTHER, I \r\ndid something else again or whatever.
    And so on and so forth.\r\n\r\nI'm too lazy to go hunting for the actual example,
    but that gives a sense of it. In that case, and others, I did adjust the word
    spacing to bump a word to the next line or pull the second half of a hyphenated
    word back onto the first line or whatever was needed.\r\n\r\nThen there was the
    case where the first paragraph contained one short sentence, so that the portion
    of it in small caps was longer than the portion that was not. Nothing to be done
    about that, really.\r\n\r\nI never tried it without any kind of stylistic embellishment
    on the first line. I tried it with Whitman small caps, and I didn't like it. I
    did rather like having the Scala in the chapter title and also on the first line.
    But I'll try it with nothing except the indent and see how that looks. It's not
    as if it's going to be ambiguous that a new chapter has started, after all.\r\n\r\nThanks!!"
  created: '2009-02-24 17:47:48'
- author:
    name: petezoe
    picture: 116775
  body: "Now I feel like I'm getting somewhere:\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://mattdean.info/RIW/plain-101.jpg\">No
    small caps</a>\r\n\r\nI wasn't fully convinced, even after I saw it printed out.
    But I think this is totally the right idea. For a start, almost quite by accident,
    the whole first sentence happens to fit on one line.\r\n\r\nThanks again!"
  created: '2009-02-25 02:09:03'
date: '2009-01-29 22:06:17'
node_type: forum
title: ragged right for fiction?

---
