---
author:
  name: nina
  picture: 111699
body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/booksample_5136.jpg]\r\n\r\nI'm assuming
  this is Meridien. Please correct me if it isn't.\r\n\r\nThe typography and typeface
  used really have me struggling to read this book. These sharp serifs alternately
  pinch me in the eye, or seem to disappear into the paper; the type seems distracting,
  and it feels too light. But maybe that's just me.\r\n\r\nI'd appreciate to hear
  your opinions on what you think about Meridien for books \u2013 immersive reading,
  novel type stuff. (And if it \"isn't just me\", I'd appreciate some good reasoning
  why the above might not be optimal; I might need (OK, want) to steer a client into
  a different direction.)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
comments:
- author:
    name: Nachos
    picture: 116245
  body: I can't read it at all. That is probably because it's not in english.
  created: '2009-02-02 21:25:08'
- author:
    name: paulstonier
    picture: 114324
  body: Hmm, does feel distracting. It's a beautiful face and seems like it was made
    for text, but readability is probably it's downfall. It's so pretty that it's
    distracting.
  created: '2009-02-02 21:31:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "There's a very simple reason: x-height too big.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-02 21:55:53'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I can't tell how your example was printed, but when I think of too-light
    fonts from that era my suspicions go to a design intended for letterpress printed
    otherwise. I read that Frutiger developed Meridien for Lumitype but also had a
    metal version cut at the same time. Maybe the design is accordingly a compromise?
    \r\n\r\nIn those eras of overlapping printing technology, when fonts were released
    simultaneously in multiple formats, were they adapted accordingly or more often
    executed from the same drawings blindly?"
  created: '2009-02-02 22:32:39'
- author:
    name: agostini
    picture: 111280
  body: "I agree with Hrant. The x-height is too big.\r\n\r\nWhat slows me down reading
    the text are the\r\nletters g and f. The descender (lower case g) seems really
    small.\r\nThe same with the lowercase f, the top of the \r\nascender (sorry, don't
    know the right term)\r\nis squeezed in"
  created: '2009-02-02 22:33:13'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thanks for your input guys. \r\nThe x-height didn't occur to me, but it really
    looks quite huge.\r\n\r\nCraig, I was suspecting some influence of a printing
    technology shift too. I presume this is standard offset printing from digital,
    and the type does feel quite fragile. (Though maybe that's just me preferring
    sturdier/darker types.)\r\n\r\nJ\xF6rg: The \"f\" is slowing me down too. And
    I stumble at every \"a\" (does it feel wide? Or maybe it's the top drooping down).\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-02 23:16:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "IIRC Frutiger Serif (the new Meridien) has a better \"f\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-02 23:40:08'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Oh, that's right. And Frutiger Serif seems to be closer to the original metal
    Meridien (see page linked to below).\r\n\r\n\"Linotype\u2019s Type Director, Akira
    Kobayashi, began by returning to prints made from the original metal type version
    of Meridien. In his opinion, the phototype and digital versions had been drawn
    too wide; the original phototype and digital Meridien had been optimized for 10\u201312
    point text, but even these sizes are not really small enough! A typeface named
    Frutiger Serif would have to be able to function in smaller sizes, too.\"\r\nSource:
    <a href=\"http://www.linotype.com/en/5368/frutigerserif.html\">Linotype</a>"
  created: '2009-02-03 10:36:56'
- author:
    name: Yehan
    picture: 112677
  body: It looks lovely..but only at the size of the sample..blown up. Interesting
    about the "new" version. I think the x height wouldn't be an issue if it wasn't
    for the sharpness and thinness of the fonts..esp that f. Maybe more suited to
    display the digital version is? (oh God I'm talking like Yoda)
  created: '2009-02-03 12:59:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I have never liked Meridien. For a start, it always looked unpleasantly spikey
    to me, as it does to Nina. Looking at the interesting link to Linotype, I think
    it was also the width. Even the new Frutiger Serif, while distinctly better, for
    me still doesn't work. There is still something off about the rhythm of it. \r\n\r\nAs
    to the x-height, I also think it is too big for a book face, but for other uses,
    such as tightly packed narrow columns, it might work.\r\n\r\nIt is interesting
    to compare this with Rocky, which is also a very spikey face, but works beautifully,
    in my eyes. I think it is because Carter varies the weights of the spikes well.
    \ \r\n\r\nIIRC John Hudson has written that he's an admirer of Meridien, so perhaps
    he'll come on this thread and tell us of its virtues. \r\n"
  created: '2009-02-03 14:55:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> A typeface named Frutiger Serif would have to be able to function in smaller
    sizes, too.\r\n\r\n?\r\nSounds like classic post-rationlization. They didn't want
    to reduce the x-height, but realized it's only useful small when it's loose (display
    when it's tight), but found a funny way to admit it.\r\n\r\n> I think the x height
    wouldn\u2019t be an issue if it wasn\u2019t for the sharpness and thinness of
    the fonts.\r\n\r\nOn the contrary, vertical proportions are at the heart of reading.\r\nhttp://themicrofoundry.com/ss_read1.html\r\n\r\nBTW,
    another admirer of Meridien is actually Carter.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-03 15:24:19'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hrant, do you remember what Carter liked about it? The individual characters
    Meridien are, of course, very well drawn. But it just doesn't work together for
    me. \r\n\r\nRocky is only a display face, so the demands on it are different,
    of course.  "
  created: '2009-02-03 15:40:16'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"They didn\u2019t want to reduce the x-height\"</em>\r\nI'm guessing
    that came with trying to make it \"Frutiger Serif\"? At least the x-height vs.
    cap height ratio seems compatible:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/frutigers_4736.gif]\r\n\r\n<em>http://themicrofoundry.com/ss_read1.html</em>\r\nThanks
    for posting this (I read it before, but it keeps making more sense on re-reading).
    I think I'm going to show my client some blurred samples. :)\r\n\r\nFor the record:
    I like Rocky a lot. But I've only used it for display."
  created: '2009-02-03 16:09:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "William, I don't remember exactly - I think he admired its atmosphere and
    letterwise craft. I'm pretty sure it was in \"Types Best Remembered / Types Best
    Forgotten\" by R Norton that I read it - a must-have book for the true blue typophile.\r\n\r\nNina,
    in that setting the x-heights are indeed the same, but thanks to a much smaller
    talus* Frutiger Serif in fact has a smaller relative x-height. However, it needs
    more leading, so people might end up setting it smaller (a good thing here) so
    the two become closer in a way. What's very useful though is that they seem to
    have equalized the apparent sizes of the two fonts (at the same point size). Maybe
    this is something Adrian Frutiger did originally? It's difficult to give Kobayashi
    too much credit however.\r\n\r\n* Also called internal leading.\r\n\r\nBTW, I'm
    glad you liked that page of mine. Just to be crystal: the blurring I show there
    isn't of course exactly the sort of thing the eye sees, it's a... dramatization
    if you will. Nonetheless, I believe it's a useful parallel to how vision works.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-03 16:49:52'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>I think he admired its atmosphere and letterwise craft</em>\r\n\r\nMaybe
    those who have toiled carving punches are inclined to have a nostalgic respect
    for letterforms that retain that metallic sharpness?"
  created: '2009-02-03 17:49:50'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"the blurring I show there isn\u2019t of course exactly the sort of
    thing the eye sees, it\u2019s a... dramatization if you will\"</em>\r\nOf course.
    I'm guessing it would be (near) impossible both technologically and practically
    to re-create exactly the sort of blurring that's happening in parafoveal vision.
    What you did is a normal Gaussian blur or something, right?\r\n\r\n<em>\"a must-have
    book for the true blue typophile\"</em>\r\nThere are too many of those. Need to
    buy a new bookshelf :)\r\n\r\nSpeaking of reading: any pointers where I could
    read up on this \"talus\" measure? That's the first time I've heard the term (and
    to be honest I didn't get that line of reasoning)."
  created: '2009-02-03 18:20:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, Gaussian.\r\n\r\nTalus is not a common term; but there are no common
    terms for the empty space above the ascenders and below the descenders, even though
    it's a very important part of a font. \"Internal leading\" is clunky and potentially
    confusing. Sometimes you need a fresh term to make a clean break, and talus (which
    I didn't make up myself) fits the bill for me. And it doesn't hurt that it sounds
    classy.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-03 18:48:55'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: 'Hrant, sorry for being so inquisitive (plus derailing my own thread). Just
    to get this right: Would this "internal leading" equal the "(Typo)LineGap" set
    in the font metrics? Or where does it come from?'
  created: '2009-02-03 20:38:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You include some talus in a font to avoid lines touching, especially when
    you factor in cap accents. And you leave the right amount at top and bottom* simply
    by ending your ascenders and descenders \"early\". Of course you plan all your
    vertical proportions in advance, because you don't want to scale stuff as a result
    of changing your mind (and deviating from a 1000 unit Em can cause problems, like
    on older systems).\r\n\r\n* I do around 3/4 at top and 1/4 at bottom.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-03 20:50:32'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Ahh, now I get it! Thanks for elaborating. \r\n\r\n<em>\"Of course you plan
    all your vertical proportions in advance, because you don\u2019t want to scale
    stuff as a result of changing your mind\"</em>\r\nI sure have a lot to learn.&nbsp;&nbsp;:->\r\n\r\n[End
    of derailment.]"
  created: '2009-02-03 20:59:08'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Getting back to Meridien: the importance of the x-height becomes quite clear
    \r\nwhen things are blurred (Patria on the right for comparison). This was a pretty
    illuminating exercise, if very quick and dirty \u2013 and a bit unfair too, as
    the original sample is scanned (I don't have Meridien).\r\n\r\nLooking at this
    comparison, apart from the short ascenders*, I'd call the designs of Meridien's
    \"e\" and \"t\" somewhat problematic/unclear (and maybe the tittle too?).\r\n\r\n*
    Come to think of it, I should have picked a word with descenders too. Oh well.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/unsterblichkeit_6248.gif]"
  created: '2009-02-03 22:38:09'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "\u2014"
  created: '2009-02-03 23:53:58'
- author:
    name: Joostmarcellis
    picture: 115479
  body: "i personoly think that how it is used is more important that the type use,
    in readabilaty. i'm not to fond of the indidual shape of the characters, but what
    i can say is, it is pretty thin and together with the big x-height it is wise
    not to use too small. (larger sizes no problem) \r\n\r\nbut it is posible your
    problem lies with to much characters on a line, maybe to much lines on page, or
    not enough leading or spacing, but i have to see it one on one to jugde that."
  created: '2009-02-04 10:34:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "A font's features guide (if not dictate) how it's best used. Meridien is
    too loose to work well at large sizes (except in all-caps), the x-height is too
    large to use for long text at typical sizes, and it's a bit light to use for small
    text. I'm talking about the original digital version here (which was possibly
    poorly digitized).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-04 14:57:03'
- author:
    name: Joostmarcellis
    picture: 115479
  body: what do you mean by loose? irregular?
  created: '2009-02-04 15:01:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The letters too far apart. Depending on the size of a setting a font should
    be tighter (when set larger) or looser (when set smaller). This is due to how
    the eye sees things. Scale is mondo relevant. One could even say that at 8 versus
    12 point for example we're essentially looking at different fonts.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-04 15:26:09'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Isn't it being loose, though, something that can be fixed/controlled quite
    easily while typesetting it,* or am I missing something important?\r\n\r\n* Which
    would mean it'd be a lot easier to make it work for display than for text. "
  created: '2009-02-04 15:45:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Of color, proportions and spacing the last can indeed be tweaked during typesetting,
    but I do say tweaked because there are \"boundary conditions\" to worry about,
    and if you go too far problems will start raining on you. Think about the right
    side of \"r\" for instance: the right sidebearing will typically be very close
    to flush against the glyph, so if you track the font tighter, things -like the
    left serif of the \"v\"- will start colliding with the beak; and if you track
    the font looser you don't actually want the right sidebearing to increase, because
    the type designer was fighting the whitespace to begin with. One thing that tends
    to help though is InDesign's optical spacing.\r\n\r\nFor a properly spaced font,
    tracking is poison.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-04 17:32:19'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "I don\u2019t know the original size of this sample, but it looks like it
    has been tracked out too much. The word spaces are getting lost, which makes it
    look like a jumble of letters. Even tracked out, a little more word spacing would
    add some clarity."
  created: '2009-02-04 18:47:38'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"For a properly spaced font, tracking is poison.\"</em>\r\nGot your
    point, Hrant. But you still need to do it sometimes (tracking, that is); say,
    how about when you need to set a very well spaced font a bit smaller than it was
    intended to be; or knock it out of a solid color? Would that be Bad, and better
    to pick a different font instead?\r\n\r\nJames, the sample I posted is an inch
    and three quarters wide. <a href=\"http://altaira.de/posted/meridien_pfarrer.gif\">Here</a>
    is a shot of an entire page (no margins, sorry); the whole column is just short
    of 4 inches wide.\r\nI agree about the tracking; I may be hallucinating, but to
    me it also seems to vary too much (this being justified text with possibly weird
    settings). Actually, in some places, the letterspacing looks a bit wonky to me
    too (like that \"llbl\" sequence in \"H\xFCllbl\xE4ttern\" \u2013 the second \"l\"
    looks a hair too close to the \"b\" to me, and that's actually a delimiter between
    two distinct parts of a compound, so if anything, it should be looser rather than
    tighter IMHO)."
  created: '2009-02-04 20:09:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I certainly agree that tracking can be useful. Mostly for certain display
    settings, and to help out poorly spaced text fonts. The problem is tracking can
    only hurt a properly spaced text font. To many graphic designers tracking often
    seems like a quick fix to fill/squeeze a line/paragraph/page into a convenient
    box, but in fact it comes at a cost.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-04 20:25:34'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"To many graphic designers tracking often seems like a quick fix to
    fill/squeeze a line/paragraph/page into a convenient box\"</em>\r\nAgreed. I was
    taught this during my first internship, and felt like I held \r\nThe Key To The
    Kingdom of smartly setting type (and saving a couple of lines\r\nin the process)
    for the following year or so, until I realized it makes things look\u2026 bad.\r\n\r\nStill:
    If you say a given typeface is only really optimized for a pretty narrow range
    of point sizes, what am I (as a typographer, in this instance) supposed to do
    if I \r\ndo need to set it smaller? \u2013 Given that I wouldn't just automatically
    track it out & let it be, but go through it by hand afterwards to make sure no
    weirdness is happening? Still better to just not do it?"
  created: '2009-02-04 22:31:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You pay a type designer to modify the font. Which you seem\r\nto have a knack
    for already :-) so you're ahead of the game.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-04 23:42:13'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: ":-)\r\n\r\nI love the way this thread keeps branching out (though I'm wondering
    if everybody else hates it).\r\nThat said: please don't hesitate to actually say
    stuff about Meridien, people.\r\nMy \"Meridien client problem\" has apparently
    been solved, but this is still highly interesting. Like, what about the tracking/letterspacing
    on that sample?"
  created: '2009-02-05 00:26:27'
- author:
    name: Joostmarcellis
    picture: 115479
  body: "\u201CFor a properly spaced font, tracking is poison.\u201D\r\n\r\nnicely
    put, and i second that, thanks for the 'loose' explanaiton"
  created: '2009-02-05 07:17:41'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > (like that \u201Cllbl\u201D sequence in \u201CH\xFCllbl\xE4ttern\u201D
    \u2013 the second \u201Cl\u201D looks a hair too close to the \u201Cb\u201D to
    me, </cite>\r\n\r\nWhile I also think there might be something a little off about
    the fitting of Meridien (or perhaps its just this particular setting), I have
    to say that this discrepancy you point out in \"H\xFCllbl\xE4ttern\" is actually
    something that I suspect you'll find in most fonts (although, perhaps to a lesser
    degree).\r\n\r\nIn a typical serif font, the left sidebearing of a <em>b</em>
    will be less than that of <em>h k l</em> to account for the lack of foot serif
    -- I would say 80&#150;85% would not be uncommon. In most combinations, this difference
    is necessary to get good fitting. The only circumstance where you're likely to
    notice the discrepancy in ascender intervals is in the sequences \"llb\" or \"dlb.\"
    I don't know how common \"llb\" is in German; I would imagine \"dlb\" doesn't
    exist in the wild.\r\n\r\nIncluding a \"lb\" positive kern pair in a font is probably
    a pretty rare thing.\r\n\r\nJust thought I'd point that out.\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-05 14:31:50'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Maybe I should start a separate thread, but reading a book set in Bembo recently
    I was noticing something that, for whatever reason, I had never considerd, which
    is the cap \u201CV\u201D followed by a lc \u201Ci\u201D and the arm of the \u201CV\u201D
    crashing into the dot. Have uc/lc ligatures or an optional lc \u201Ci\u201D without
    a dot ever been generated as part of a face? Possibly Eben might know as he is
    hot on the contextual alternates."
  created: '2009-02-05 14:53:34'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Mea culpa, Kent, thanks for the pointer. Indeed I was only looking at the
    pattern of the stems. What's funny is, I have actually made the left sidebearing
    of the \"b\" tighter than in the \"l\" in my own font, but apparently forgot about
    that again. Must go easy on the coffee\u2026 :-)\r\n\r\nOf course German is a
    bit evil about possible letter sequences \u2013 we can make all sorts of weird
    ones by way of compounds. It took me a moment to think of one with \"dlb\", and
    this may really be reaching out too far, but in Austrian dialect (which would
    rarely be <em>written</em> though), \"Ma<strong>dl</strong>\" means \"girl\" (scary
    image <a href=\"http://hitparade.ch/cdimages/ursprung_buam-a_fesches_boarisches_madl_a.jpg\">here</a>);
    so compounds with that and a \"<strong>b</strong>\"-Word like \"Beine\" (legs),
    or its Austrian equivalent, would be possible."
  created: '2009-02-05 15:04:55'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite>I would imagine \u201Cdlb\u201D doesn\u2019t exist in the wild.</cite>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/wadlbeisser_3602.png]\r\nBavarian
    expression for belligerent but small-sized dogs. Here\u2019s a <a href=\"http://einestages.spiegel.de/static/document/10190/waldi_das_maskottchen_der_olympischen_spiele.html\">Wadlbei\xDFer</a>
    by [[Otl Aicher]]."
  created: '2009-02-05 15:35:25'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Hah. Alright, thanks for the -dlb- examples.\r\n\r\nBack to Meridien: Looking
    more closely at the full scan you linked to (and spending time I really shouldn't
    be ;-), I have come to the conclusion that there is something definitely funky
    going on with the fitting of this setting.\r\n\r\nSince the sorts of weirdness
    I'm seeing are what I would consider amateurish inconsistencies (especially in
    terms of straights vs. rounds), and since Frutiger and Linotype are not amateurs,
    I'm going to go out on a limb and suggest that this book was set with Adobe InDesign's
    Optical metrics applied.\r\n\r\nNina, is this a recent enough publication where
    this could be a possibility?\r\n\r\nWithout testing with Meridien itself to replicate
    the exact same idiosyncrasies and confirm (I don't have Meridien), I can't be
    absolutely certain, of course. But I have seen Adobe's Optical metrics do this
    sort of destruction before -- things like pushing out straight-straights and arch-straights,
    pulling in arch-rounds; it will even exacerbate the \"llb\" irregularity. \r\n\r\n(I've
    seen Whitman used with Optical metrics, and at first I was suddenly plagued with
    self-doubt and thought I was going crazy.)\r\n\r\nThe more I think about this,
    the more convinced I am about this theory.\r\n\r\nParents: Please, don't let your
    kids use Optical metrics! Please!\r\n\r\n-- Kent."
  created: '2009-02-05 15:45:02'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">suddenly plagued with self-doubt and thought I was going crazy\r\n\r\n\"You
    know when you lean back too far in a chair, and it is just about to fall over,
    but you catch yourself, and in that moment you don't know whether it is going
    to fall over or not--I feel like that <em>all the time</em>.\" --Steven Wright"
  created: '2009-02-05 15:55:47'
- author:
    name: xtianhoff
  body: "I'm reeling from the sheer number of tangents this thread has taken. It's
    as if Typophile forgot its ritalin today.\r\n\r\nI once tried to set a book with
    Meridien, seduced by the loveliness of its craft. I worked for days trying to
    find a rhythm that worked. Now, to a certain degree that's merely betraying my
    inadequacies, but the finish and affectations of the font (no matter how expertly
    executed) always seemed to distract. It was standing on its tiptoes instead of
    sitting solidly on the baseline. \r\n\r\nThe next tangent I'd like to see this
    thread take are examples of Meridien set well. "
  created: '2009-02-05 16:12:27'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"I\u2019m going to go out on a limb and suggest that this book was set
    with Adobe InDesign\u2019s Optical metrics applied.\"</em>\r\n\r\nHa! That might
    explain a lot. And yes, the book was published in 2008.\r\nI have contact info
    for the graphic designer who typeset this, but am a bit reluctant to contact him
    about this and ask directly, as I'm doing the next book in this edition, which
    could (maybe should) have been his job\u2026 no need to make him feel bad about
    the job he did I guess.\r\n\r\nAnybody reading this thread who has a bit too much
    time, and has Meridien (and InDesign), to do a quick test setting of maybe a couple
    of lines with metrics vs. optical? I'm intrigued.\r\n\r\n<em>\"Parents: Please,
    don\u2019t let your kids use Optical metrics!\"</em>\r\nDoesn't that kind of depend
    on the font used (& how well it was originally spaced), though? (Smelling the
    next tangent. :-) )\r\n\r\n<em>\"The next tangent I\u2019d like to see this thread
    take are examples of Meridien set well.\"</em>\r\nThat would actually be a tangent
    that's pretty close to the original core of the thread (which I agree is pretty
    ADD-ish. Much fun)."
  created: '2009-02-05 16:37:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> .... this book was set with Adobe InDesign\u2019s Optical metrics applied.\r\n\r\nWouldn't
    that make the whole thing much tighter?* Although I know there are limits to how
    far InDesign will deviate from the built-in spacing, and Meridien is loose to
    start with.\r\n\r\n* Except if the point size was small. What was it Nina?\r\n\r\n>
    don\u2019t let your kids use Optical metrics!\r\n\r\nBut Kent, many fonts are
    so poorly spaced that it <em>can</em> help.\r\nOptical spacing is just another
    tool that can be used well or poorly.\r\n\r\n> I\u2019m reeling from the sheer
    number of tangents this thread\r\n> has taken. It\u2019s as if Typophile forgot
    its ritalin today.\r\n\r\nOr simply that it has regained its youthful vigor, at
    least here and now.\r\nFrankly though this degree is divergence is nothing compared
    to past cases.\r\nHey, where was that completely bonkers thread - you guys remember?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-05 16:39:51'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Hrant, comparing with the PDF sample, I'd say the point size on this is \r\njust
    over 10; I'm guessing 10.5.\r\n\r\nAnd: Couldn't optical spacing have been combined
    with a bit of tracking for \r\neven more wackiness (and to counteract it getting
    tighter)?"
  created: '2009-02-05 16:49:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I\u2019d say the point size on this is just over 10; I\u2019m guessing
    10.5.\r\n\r\nSo not too small.\r\n\r\n> Couldn\u2019t optical spacing have been
    combined with a bit of tracking\r\n\r\nSure, why not!  :-/\r\nIn fact when I tested
    out InDesign's optical spacing back when,\r\nI realized that it doesn't take into
    account the tracking setting,\r\nwhich can backfire in a big way.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    here it is - the Jackson Pollock of Typophile threads:\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/32680\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-05 17:01:28'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > Doesn\u2019t that kind of depend on the font used (& how well it
    was originally spaced), though? </cite>\r\n\r\n<cite> > But Kent, many fonts are
    so poorly spaced that it can help.</cite>\r\n\r\nI will admit I am not at all
    a fan of Optical metrics (in Adobe's implementation), except for perhaps a very
    few, limited circumstances. In my opinion, it should never be used for text settings
    (certainly not books). Maybe it can improve poor spacing to become mediocre. I've
    never seen it produce decent spacing overall; and I've never seen it improve spacing
    to the point where it is acceptable for book text. \r\n\r\nBut maybe that's because
    I would never consider trying to use something for the sort of work I do that
    was poorly spaced to begin with.\r\n\r\n<cite> > Optical spacing is just another
    tool that can be used well or poorly.</cite>\r\n\r\nMostly poorly. It's a reckless
    tool. No controls. Which is why I generally advise against it. If you don't have
    the discernment to evaluate the results, don't use it. (If you do have the discernment,
    then what are you doing working with a poorly spaced font in the first place.)\r\n\r\nSorry,
    is my cranky side showing? ;-)\r\n\r\n<cite> > Wouldn\u2019t that make the whole
    thing much tighter?</cite>\r\n\r\nIn my explorations, it doesn't necessarily tighten
    text settings. Display, yes. But not text size. Mostly it just shifts space around.
    Seems like it puts in as many positive kerns as it does negative ones. (Like straight-straights
    on the order of 15&#150;35 units).\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-05 17:01:38'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>http://www.typophile.com/node/32680</em>\r\nTypophile on acid, man. I'm
    loving this. \r\nAnd here we are still talking about type!"
  created: '2009-02-05 17:40:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it should never be used for text settings\r\n\r\nAs you imply yourself,
    I think you're making a certain assumption:\r\nthat people only use fonts appropriate
    for setting text to set text.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-05 18:27:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Kent, I just did a quick test in InDesign (CS) and below about\r\n11 pt the
    few \"mainstream\" fonts I tried were all loosened up.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand
    I think InDesign <em>must</em>\r\nnotice that Meridien is loose to begin with.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-05 19:30:29'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Hrant, do you have Meridien?\r\n\r\nSomebody stop me from licencing the dam
    thing just to test this."
  created: '2009-02-05 23:44:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Stop.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-06 00:46:26'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Thanks.
  created: '2009-02-06 01:00:38'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Go.
  created: '2009-02-06 01:02:40'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Okay, again waaay too much time spent. But what's done is done. I post this
    in the hopes it continues to be instructive.\r\n\r\nNaturally, I've selected a
    particularly egregious example in order to strengthen my point. ;-)\r\n\r\nHere
    is an example of Adobe InDesign's Optical metrics applied to 10 pt Trump Mediaeval.
    I'm not claiming that TM's spacing is exemplary (though certainly reasonable),
    but what InDesign does to it is my focus. Also, this particular example seems
    to exhibit a similar strategy to what I perceive going on in the Meridien sample
    -- probably because Trump Mediaeval shares some characteristics with Meridien,
    in particular the long sharp serifs.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/OptMet_TM-10_3595.png]\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\nThe
    top is the natural fitting. Beneath that is the Optical treatment. Below that
    is an annotation showing the numerical adjustments that InDesign is applying.
    Note how it pushes apart the straights and pulls together the straight-rounds,
    creating an uneven spacing -- E i n bi ldu n g.\r\n\r\nAt 12 pt, the numbers are
    different, but the basic strategy is similar:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/OptMet_TM-12_4028.png]\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\nIf
    you look at Nina's full Meridien page, you'll find this same word seven lines
    up from the bottom:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Merid_Ein-excerpt_5421.png]\r\n\r\nThis
    exhibits the same odd fitting quirks.\r\n\r\nCompare this with what I must assume
    is Meridien's natural fitting from the Linotype tester:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Merid_Einbildung_6337.png]\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\nWe
    can argue about whether the natural fitting of Meridien is too loose for text
    or not, or about the effect of various other design attributes on readability.
    But I hope we can agree that something funky is happening with the fitting in
    that example, and I'm pretty sure Adobe Optical metrics is the culprit.\r\n\r\n--
    Kent."
  created: '2009-02-06 01:05:27'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Kent, that wasn't just educational, I'd say illuminating! And it looks like
    you're right on the money about your optical spacing suspicion. \r\nHere's the
    word from the scan compared with the sample you posted from the Linotype site
    (or was that MyFonts? In any case, I'd hope they have kerning activated in their
    Flash).\r\nI tried to scale the two to the same size, though that wasn't quite
    easy (sorry, my scanner sucks).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/spacing_meridien_5674.jpg]\r\n\r\nThis
    shows a remarkably similar pattern to what you posted, Kent (with the notable
    exception of n_g).\r\nThe crazy thing is, while the word obviously got quite a
    bit looser overall, there are some pairs that still got tighter (in absolute terms)
    \u2013 those being mainly round/straights (b_i, l_d) \u2013 whereas straight/straights
    like i_n and i_l got looser. \r\nCould this be a case in point for a combination
    of optical scaling plus tracking? \r\n\r\n(I'm getting the creeping impression
    somebody was consciously trying to wreck the spacing on this one. :-/ )\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\n(PS:
    James, that was evil. ;-) )"
  created: '2009-02-06 01:37:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "First, a clarification: please do buy Meridien if you actually need it. But
    not\r\njust to test it out; that money would be better spent buying a font you
    need.\r\n\r\nSecond: William, below is a rough-and-ready snapshot of the Meridien
    passage in the Norton book. I think it's telling that Carter focuses his praise
    on the demi, that being a weight I'm sure can very well be used to great effect
    at sizes around 9.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Meridien_3994.gif]\r\n\r\nThird:
    thanks Kent and Nina for the judicious testing. This is my Typophile.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-06 02:02:33'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "It's all good, Hrant, you were spot on: I don't need it, and I don't think
    I'll want to use it; in fact I don't like it too much so far (as you may have
    guessed). That was my \"<em>need</em> to figure this out <em>now</em>\" urge talking.&nbsp;&nbsp;:-)\r\n\r\nRe
    the Carter passage: Does he actually misspell Meridien, or was it ever sold as
    \"Meridian\"?\r\nBtw, what's this set in? Feels nice and tight after looking at
    all this Meridien stuff.\r\n\r\nAnd, thank you guys for the great input. I'm beginning
    to feel I've been learning way more on here than in that uh, rather expensive
    type design class I'm taking\u2026 dunno if that's primarily a sad thing to say
    about the class, or a great thing about Typophile. But I tend towards the latter."
  created: '2009-02-06 02:13:33'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "\r\nProbably just a [[http://www.lyricstime.com/nazz-meridian-leeward-lyrics.html|Nazz]]
    fan. Thanks Kent, Nina, Hrant. I\u2019ve seen so much  contradictory opinion on
    kerning. This is really solid and timely for me to look at."
  created: '2009-02-06 02:26:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The heading is spelled \"Meridian\" as well, and I suspect all that was the
    editor's fault. The book has a long errata list (but doesn't correct \"Meridian\").
    I should know the font used for the body, but I'm not very good at ID-ing, and
    quite strangely the book doesn't have a colophon. Frankly it's a wishy-washy,
    \"precious\" typeface, with one of those open-bottom binocular \"g\"s that serves
    as an excuse for novelty. Nina, I think your desire to see something you like
    after having to look at Meridien for too long is leveraging the lack of quality
    of that image to deliver to you a desert mirage. :-)  The sans however is Olive,
    a font that some revile but I personally value a good deal.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-06 02:50:38'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"I think your desire to see something you like after having to look
    at Meridien for too long is leveraging the lack of quality of that image to deliver
    to you a desert mirage. :-)\"</em>\r\nHa! Nicely said. I guess I should go and
    unleash that visual hunger for good type on the work on *my* book. :-)\r\n\r\nOlive,
    as in Antique Olive? That has been growing on me a lot, and does seem to look
    very nice in there. I used to detest it \u2013 probably due to over-exposure in
    crappy display settings (a bit like Kabel, of which I've become quite the fan)."
  created: '2009-02-06 03:02:30'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > Linotype site (or was that MyFonts? In any case, I\u2019d hope they
    have kerning activated in their Flash).</cite>\r\n\r\nIt was in fact the Linotype
    site.\r\n\r\nOne useful thing about using Trump as an example is that, since it
    was originally designed for Linotype composition, it has very few kerning pairs.
    (Metal Linotype, you may know, could not accommodate any kerns at all). There
    are none in this sequence. So the values I list can be taken as absolute, no need
    for math.\r\n\r\nI would suspect the same is true for Meridien. So, it wouldn't
    matter whether the tester could accommodate kerning, since there probably isn't
    any.\r\n\r\nIn fact, I would say that in any reasonably competent text font, this
    particular sequence -- E i n b i l d u n g -- should not require any kerning pairs.
    \r\n\r\n<cite> > This shows a remarkably similar pattern to what you posted, Kent
    (with the notable exception of n_g).</cite>\r\n\r\nThis is undoubtedly due to
    the different structures of the lower bowl, Trump having a horizontal left thrust
    & Meridien having a demur angle.\r\n\r\n<cite> > Could this be a case in point
    for a combination of optical scaling plus tracking? </cite>\r\n\r\nNo. This is
    a case in point for leaving it alone and not using optical metrics.\r\n\r\n\r\n--
    K."
  created: '2009-02-06 14:11:05'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<strong>Optical spacing deviation:</strong> So I've been looking deeper into
    InDesign's optical spacing, and I must say I'm deeply disenchanted with it. (I
    know I could [should?] have started a new thread on this, but since we were kind
    of talking about this anyway\u2026)\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\n1) The optical spacing algorythm
    seems to apply the same pattern Kent outlined above to serif fonts, across different
    fonts and sizes. Note the sequence \"bild\", which by opening up the straight/straights
    and tightening the straight/rounds (and vice versa) ends up as something closer
    to \"bi ld\".\r\n\r\nHere's Swift at 10pt (top \"Metrics\"; bottom \"Optical\").
    To my eyes, the beautiful visual rythm is completely thrown off by optical spacing.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/swift_5415.gif]\r\nMore
    or less the same thing happening to Dante at 12pt (a pretty extreme case of \"bi
    ld\"):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dante_6687.gif]\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\n2)
    To find out about the assumption that optical spacing can be beneficial for the
    special case of badly spaced fonts, I did a test with the most badly spaced font
    I have, which is my own work in progress \u2013 I actually haven't worked on its
    spacing yet, there's just something kind of there.\r\nAgain, InDesign applies
    a similar pattern as on the serif fonts above \u2013 and even here, I'm not sure
    the \"optical\" version is actually better. To name just one thing, the \"ein\"
    sequence looks pretty wacky to me. \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ernestine_4571.gif]\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\n3)
    Interestingly, the pattern that optical spacing applied to the serif faces above
    changes dramatically for sans faces. Below is Parisine at 10pt. Note how in the
    \"bild\" sequence, the straight/straight in the i_l combination is tightened a
    lot more than the straight/rounds surrounding it, making the \"bild\" sequence
    not read like \"bi ld\" as above, but closer to \"b il d\".\r\nWith this one,
    I must admit the optical version doesn't look quite as atrocious, so maybe optical
    spacing does work better for sansserifs?\r\nIt does startle me though that this
    was tightened up a lot even at 10pt, which I'm not sure is such a good idea.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/parisine_5574.gif]\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\n4)
    This is just for giggles and to see how far the thing could go. It obviously \"could
    not read that\".\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/youcanreadme_5627.gif]\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nKent,
    \r\n<em>\"No. This is a case in point for leaving it alone and not using optical
    metrics.\"</em>\r\nI probably expressed myself poorly there. What I meant was,
    could that mean that positive tracking was used in that sample on top of optical
    spacing*? (I'm not <em>proposing</em> doing that. :-) )\r\n\r\n* I meant \"spacing\"
    of course, not \"scaling\".\r\n\r\n(Although maybe they didn't even manually track
    that out, but let their H&Js take care of that \u2026)"
  created: '2009-02-06 14:41:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks, Hrant. Honestly, Aesthetically, I don't like the spikiness of Galliard,
    but it doesn't have the readability problems that Meridien has for me (and Nina.)
    \r\n\r\nI can understand why Carter found Frutiger's shapes so fascinating. I
    was stuck a few years ago in a waiting in Charles de Gaul airport. It was bare,
    but the room had these six foot high numbers in Frutiger, labelling areas. In
    that size you could see every nuance, and admiring and studying the curves was
    like watching a movie for me, for over an hour while we waited. \r\n\r\nIn Rocky
    the spikes are blunted, so it becomes a different animal. \r\n\r\nI wonder whether
    the original spacing of Meridian by Frutiger is also bad, because he was following
    too much his own theories, which in this case were not so good. --He argues on
    the Linotype site that the space between n's should be the same as the width of
    the counter. Tracy says it should be less. It may also be just that these long
    spikes don't allow good spacing. \r\n\r\nI don't know exactly what is going wrong,
    and it is an intriguing question precisely because it is so well drawn.    \r\n\r\nEdit:
    [[http://www.linotype.com/793-12659/walterkchstypedesignclasses.html|here is the
    link]] to Frutiger's comment on spacing. \r\n\r\nKent, I'm wondering what you
    think of his comment on spacing. "
  created: '2009-02-06 15:19:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nina, you don't think InDesign helped in #2?\r\nBTW, #4: LOL!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-06 15:22:21'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Hrant, about #2: I admit I stumbled over the initial e_i so badly that it
    probably intensified my negative judgment a lot. \r\nThat said, I would agree
    the optical spacing helps in some places (\"inb\" tends to look better); but overall,
    I'm not happy.* I think it's doing too much of the \"bi ld\" thing (if it tightens
    the b_i and l_d like that, I'd want less air in the i_l too), and the d_u looks
    too tight to me too, relatively speaking. But maybe that's just my untrained eye
    (which is also still very tired of seeing this font).\r\n\r\n* Of course, I'm
    not happy with the top version either. I can't really decide which one is worse;
    in any case, I'd hesitate to call the optically spaced version a crucial advancement."
  created: '2009-02-06 15:33:54'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > (Although maybe they didn\u2019t even manually track that out, but
    let their H&Js take care of that \u2026)</cite>\r\n\r\nThere you go. I doubt that
    there has been any wholesale tracking applied on top of the optical scaling. It's
    possible that the H&Js are liberal with letterspacing allowance. I'm not convinced
    that's true. But I'm not looking closely at the original.\r\n\r\nI think you're
    correct in observing that the algorithm works better with sans serif designs.
    I have not explored it much in that realm. I imagine that the wide range and variety
    of serif structures can easily throw off the algorithm. For that reason, sans
    serif is probably more amenable to an algorithmic optical spacing routine. I'm
    not convinced the InDesign version is better than JFP's fitting, but it's certainly
    not as dramatically worse.\r\n\r\nRegarding the adjustments to your type design:
    The thing is, while it might improve some things, it also worsens others at the
    same time. This is the crux of my argument -- it's unreliable, at best. Good to
    be somewhat disenchanted.\r\n\r\nThat doesn't mean it can't sometimes be helpful
    in a pinch. But evaluate the results closely; you can't always trust it.\r\n\r\n\r\n@Bill:
    Do you mean this comment?:\r\n\r\n<cite> \"One ground for disagreement was the
    concept of rhythm in a type line. I tried to show, with the aid of an enlargement
    of Nicolas Jensen\u2019s roman, that the interior spaces (counters) of the lower-case
    letters had the identical width of the spaces between the letters, which was easy
    to demonstrate in a Latin text with its many straight strokes. [. . .] Later on,
    I designed all my serif faces in accordance with this concept in order to avoid
    unevenness in the flow of reading.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nThis seems overly simplistic
    and I hesitate to take it at face value. Dwiggins used to make some cockamamie
    statements, too, about even \"picket fence\" spacing. Best not to take them too
    literally.\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-06 19:22:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Kent, yes, that's the quote. I agree he couldn't have taken it completely
    literally, but I'm wondering whether he took literally enough to create problems
    in Meridien. I think I remember reading somewhere that he now thought he had made
    the original side bearings of Frutiger (Roissy) too wide for signage.  \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2009-02-06 19:55:38'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Well, I don't have enough evidence before me to offer an opinion about the
    fitting of Meridien in relation to that comment and whether it detracts from Meridien's
    suitability for text setting. I think I've established pretty convincingly that
    the sample before us is not the natural fitting for Meridien, which can't be blamed
    on the font. \r\n\r\nAfter that, it's pretty hard to accurately assess other variables.\r\n\r\nThere
    have been allegations that Meridien is fitted too loose. I haven't seen a trustworthy
    sample from which to draw any conclusion. \r\n\r\nThe letterforms seem moderately
    wide. And wider letterforms generally beg for slightly more open fitting. When
    does it all become a problem . . . ?\r\n\r\nThe tester sample looks like reasonable
    fitting to me, but obviously that's no way to measure. I'd have to experience
    the type first hand.\r\n\r\nThe only other example I have at my disposal is a
    mediocre reproduction of something from the late 80s, presumably from phototype,
    and it's definitely set too tight (as was somewhat the habit then). Again, I don't
    trust that this can be attributed to the font itself.\r\n\r\nXtian made a plea
    above for examples of Meridien used well. I'll second that motion.\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-07 00:51:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I have a friend who has Meridien (although it looks like\r\nFlorian has it
    too). What should I ask her to set for us?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-07 02:13:20'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I just asked on typografie.info for good examples of Meridien, too \u2013
    maybe somebody there has something to share.\r\n\r\nThe best I could find was
    this sample from \"Schriften erkennen\" (Sauthoff, Wendt, & Willberg; 1998), which
    I think looks decent \u2013 at least a lot better than the book I posted about.
    Goes to prove how much comes down to spacing: \r\n(Sorry, more German.)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/willberg_meridien_4242.jpg]\r\nLarger
    scan is <a href=\"http://altaira.de/posted/willberg_meridien_large.png\">here</a>.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBTW,
    I just re-read the Meridien passages in Bringhurst. While, as is often quoted,
    he does recommend pairing Meridien with Frutiger,* he also seems pretty convinced
    that Meridien is not in fact a very good face for text.\r\n\r\nWhile on p. 237,
    he quotes its (then) lacking glyph coverage only in this regard (\"in the absence
    of small caps and text figures, the related Apollo is often more useful for text\"),
    the part on Apollo then gets more illuminating (p. 215, cf. p. 238):\r\n\"[In
    making Apollo] Frutiger used the opportunity to rethink his first text face, M\xE9ridien,
    drawn eight years earlier. Apollo lacks the sharpness of M\xE9ridien, but its
    smaller eye, blunter serifs and reduced modulation can make it a better choice
    for text [\u2026]\".\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\n* For the record and since we were talking
    about this before: \"Frutiger also mated well with the same designer's M\xE9ridien
    and Apollo, though such a mixture was not apparently part of the original design
    plan, and the fonts did not match in weight or body size.\" (p. 257)\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nHrant,
    that is cool. Has your friend set anything with Meridien in the past that we may
    look at?"
  created: '2009-02-07 09:14:34'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Linotype provides PDFs with sample settings of Meridien on its website: http://image.linotype.com/samples/hirespdf/12948.pdf\r\nI
    don\u2019t have Meridien*, but I do have <a href=\"http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/bitstream/latin-725/overview.html\">Latin
    725</a>, which is Bitstream\u2019s version of Meridien \u2013 again a very different
    beast. Nina, if you want to, I could provide a text sample of that. \r\n*) That
    is, I did use Meridien once when at University, for <a href=\"http://kaune.hardwig.com/portfolio/bildwissenschaft\">two
    \ booklets</a>. Not really book text, rather annotations/captions in narrow columns
    \u2013 I think it worked quite well for that. I\u2019m fond of Meridien\u2019s
    italics.\r\n\r\nHere\u2019s a comparison of the Regular and the Italic, rendered
    at 48pt. From top to bottom: Linotype Meridien, Bitstream Latin 725, Frutiger
    Serif:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/meridien_5284.png]"
  created: '2009-02-07 14:20:25'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "It does seem to work pretty well in your booklet, Florian. Any chance you
    could post a PDF of a page or so? (Though I wouldn't want you to infringe on anyone's
    copyright of course.)\r\n\r\nAlso, how was your experience typesetting Meridien
    (after how Christian described how he struggled to make it look good)?"
  created: '2009-02-07 14:53:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Florian, thanks.\r\nIt's interesting that Bitstream's version is tighter
    and Frutiger Serif has been blown up on the body (most certainly to match Frutiger
    Sans).\r\n\r\nSo do I still need to ask my friend for a setting?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-13 19:13:23'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I wonder. Personally, I'd still be quite interested to see an example of
    Meridien \r\nset well, maybe with the same text as in the sample I posted so we
    can compare \r\nen d\xE9tail?* On the other hand, interest in this thread seems
    to have kind of dwindled, so if I'm the only one who still wants to see this,
    I guess your friend doesn't need to worry.\r\n\r\n* Which might be a bit evil
    since it's in German. I can offer to type that & email it over, so your friend
    would only have to copy-paste. Let me know."
  created: '2009-02-13 22:04:21'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "So tracking is poison, eh? I must be going mad. What happended in the last
    line of the sample above (Frutiger Serif Regular)?\r\nIs it a space or what?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/frut_4646.png]\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-14 11:57:59'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "@Nina, Hrant:\r\nI\u2019m at the University today. They have Meridien here,
    so I could set some text with it and upload a PDF. Nina, if you want it to be
    the same text as in your sample, please send it to me via e-mail soon.\r\n\r\n@Jan
    (paragraph): The Frutiger Serif sample is taken from the specimen PDF on the Linotype
    website. I\u2019d advise you to <a href=\"http://image.linotype.com/samples/hirespdf/288806.pdf\">download
    the PDF</a> yourself and print it \u2013 it\u2019s never a good idea to judge
    the finer points of type on screen. The wonky spacing is most likely due to rendering
    errors in the process."
  created: '2009-02-16 12:41:17'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Wicked. Thanks for the offer, Florian! I just sent you an email.
  created: '2009-02-16 13:43:33'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Okay, <a href=\"http://florian.hardwig.com/public/typophile/meridien.pdf\">here\u2019s
    a PDF</a> [0.8mb] with a replication of the two text samples you sent me.\r\nI
    hope it helps to get an impression of how Meridien looks like out-of-the-box.
    \r\nPretty much InDesign default settings, except for the values stated. \r\nI
    like the colour of the Medium weight better (depending on the way of production,
    of course). IMO, the \u2018f\u2019 in the Bitstream version is an improvement,
    so I included that one, too.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-16 20:43:40'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Thanks, Florian, the PDF sample spacing is fine.
  created: '2009-02-16 22:19:41'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Highly interesting. Thanks Florian.\r\n\r\nI'm still not a fan of Meridien,
    but in your sample it does seem to read much more fluidly, so I'm pretty impressed
    with how much really comes down to good spacing (and/or how badly the Adobe \"optical
    spacing\" can mess up a well spaced font).\r\n\r\nThere are still some combinations
    in the metrical setting that seem strangely spaced to me (like the \"c\" followed
    by a straight ascender as in the \"h\" or \"k\"), but that might just be me.\r\n\r\nOne
    thing I'm wondering about Adobe's optical spacing, based on seeing this, is if
    it might use excessive care not to let anything touch (or if that really comes
    down to the book I have being tracked out on top of optically spaced). In examples
    like the following (sorry about the small size and bad quality), the spacing seems
    to place more importance on equal distance between serifs than on the actual optical
    space between letters.\r\n\r\nFor example, in \"Knoblauchkette\" it looks as if
    the \"K/n\" serifs were made to be at approximately the same distance as the serifs
    in the \"n\", which obviously makes the space in between the letters too big.
    Similar stuff is going on in the samples below.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/knoblauchkette_6072.gif]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/serifspace2_4417.gif]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/serifspace3_5687.gif]\r\n(Although
    \u2013 isn't this last one a hint too tight in the metrical setting?)"
  created: '2009-02-16 23:31:54'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Once I look really closely at the spacing of many established commercial
    fonts, I see all sorts of mischief.\r\nShould I be saddened by this or cheered
    up? (That I am not the only slack bastard with atrocious spacing :)"
  created: '2009-02-17 00:08:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Florian, thank you!\r\nNo biggie, but if/when you get a chance\r\nyou might
    want to set all that left-aligned.\r\n\r\nIt's interesting how much variance there
    is between the two cuts.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-17 00:13:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks, that's interesting. I'm more and more thinking that my problems with
    Meridian are not the spacing, but way the horizontal strokes are treated. There's
    high contrast, and almost all of the horizontal is thin, and those serifs like
    needles. I think maybe its that the horizontals are starved, and at text sizes
    it is just too thin to read comfortably. The medium partly remedies the problem,
    but then it has too much sparkle...\r\n\r\nWas it designed for metal? Or for film
    type? Maybe in those days it worked better, but for me the digital doesn't work
    as text.   "
  created: '2009-02-17 00:34:59'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Nina said: <cite>ike the \u201Cc\u201D followed by a straight ascender as
    in the \u201Ch\u201D or \u201Ck\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\nI assume you think they\u2019re
    too tightly spaced, right?\r\nHave a look at this thread about <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/43911\">ch
    & ck in German</a>, and <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/hardwig/2439882179/\">this
    related discussion at Flickr</a>. After all, Meridien is a child of the 1950s.
    I\u2019ve seen faces from that period with much tighter ch and ck pairs.\r\nBTW,
    Meridien does with almost no kerning. The Roman has a mere 94 kerning pairs, all
    of them for combinations involving uppercase and/or punctuation. I\u2019d think
    this is quite little, and typical for fonts stemming from the pre-digital era.
    \r\n\r\n@William: I wonder if Opera\u2019s horizontals are more robust? Who has
    a sample?\r\nFrom <a href=\"http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/meridien/\">Myfonts</a>:\r\n<cite>Monotype
    Apollo can be seen as the Monotype version of this design; Sofratype\u2019s Opera
    is a newstext version.</cite>\r\n\r\n@Hrant: Okay, here\u2019s a setting, flush-left/ragged
    right: <a href=\"http://florian.hardwig.com/public/typophile/meridien-left.pdf\">meridien-left.pdf</a>
    [0.8mb]. With InDesign\u2019s hyphenation slider set all the way to the left,
    i.e. \u2018better spacing\u2019 over \u2018fewer hyphens\u2019. Additionally,
    a version with some quick line-break corrections. I hope that is what you were
    looking for.\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-17 10:46:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Florian, sorry for making you do that! :-/\r\nBut thanks a lot - it's the
    only way I for one can see anything.\r\n\r\nI think:\r\nThe Lino Regular is a
    bit light for its spacing and proportions.\r\nThe Lino Medium is well balanced,
    but shouldn't be used above 10 point.\r\nThe BT Medium is essentially a display
    font (due to its dark tightness).\r\nNone of them are paticularly well-spaced
    (maybe due to light kerning).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-17 21:24:12'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"Have a look at this thread about ch & ck in German\"</em>\r\nOh, wow.
    Thanks for an entirely new perspective. I agree with Ralf's statement that to
    younger practitioners this just looks weird (which is what happened to me here),
    though I disagree with his stance on blackletter, and consequently feel a bit
    bad about this as I'm actually quite familiar with the blackletter ligatures but
    failed to make the connection. What do you think, will this language-specific
    exception be lost over time?\r\n\r\nAlso, thanks for the new PDF. I think the
    font looks a lot better RR than in the justified setting.\r\nThat said: \r\n<em>\"Meridien
    does with almost no kerning\"</em>\r\n<em>\"None of them are particularly well-spaced\"</em>\r\nI'm
    sort of relieved to hear you guys say that; I was cautiously wondering. Frutiger
    does have a semi-god kind of status around here (especially at my type design
    school, where he studied), which tends to make me wary about thinking anything
    non-optimal about anything he did \u2013 which must be BS, as he's human after
    all.\r\n\r\n<em>\"The Lino Regular is a bit light for its spacing and proportions\"</em>\r\nI'm
    glad I'm not alone in this!"
  created: '2009-02-17 23:43:24'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Quite human, I believe.
  created: '2009-02-18 05:31:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Typophile: the sacred cow abattoir.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-18 05:46:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "following without tracking so as not to disrupt interletter spacing :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-19 17:37:58'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Chris! That almost made me choke. :-D\r\n\r\nAnd it's a reference the afterworld
    will likely never get\u2026"
  created: '2009-03-19 18:21:36'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: "I'm going to ask an unrelated question:\r\n\r\nWhy do some of you think you
    need a license in order to lawfully use Meridien for private study and critique?"
  created: '2009-03-19 20:18:39'
- author:
    name: Plaidjaney
  body: "I just checked out the link from hrant\r\n\r\nBTW, here it is - the Jackson
    Pollock of Typophile threads:\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/32680\r\n\r\nStopped
    looking when I hit the My Little Pony pics! ;o)"
  created: '2009-03-19 20:41:02'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: "Florian's link to the digraph thread brought back some vivid memories for
    me, of my time studying calligraphy and design with Friedrich Neugebauer in 1976-77.
    Although I was happy to follow along with all of his close-spacing suggestions
    when we were doing blackletter, we kept having tussles about ch and ck when I
    was lettering in roman and italic. He was thoroughly accustomed to the use of
    the digraphs because he had encountered them all his life in his daily reading
    and therefore felt it was right and proper to write those characters closely;
    whenever he asked me to follow suit with this, I would argue that when I went
    back home and was lettering for non-German readers, I would need to put more space
    between them! \r\n\r\nUnless I am mistaken, isn't it true that in German language,
    if you see a \"c\" it is <em>always</em> followed by an \"h\" or \"k\"? \r\n\r\nBruce"
  created: '2009-04-08 07:25:49'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: "Also, concerning the \"picket fence\" spacing that Kent mentioned, to my
    eye that has never seemed like an ideal worth striving for in anything but blackletter.
    In fact if followed too literally it becomes e x t r e m e l y  b o r i n g  a
    n d  r e p e t i t i v e ! ! ! (Perhaps it could be the basis of a new font called
    \"Sominex\" . . .)\r\n\r\nHere's an interesting metaphor that I got from Neugebauer
    (and he told me he learned it from Larisch): \r\n\r\nAs you write your letters,
    think of pouring water between them. As the water accumulates on the baseline
    and then rises to the top of the string of characters (either x-height or cap
    height), approximately the same amount of water should be consumed between all
    the letter pairs. While one should never follow this slavishly or literally, I
    think it is a more useful and more concrete way to think about letter spacing
    than \"area\". \r\n\r\nYou guys may disagree with this approach in thinking about
    typographic spacing, but over the years as I have introduced students to the making
    of letters with pen and ink it's been a real help.\r\n\r\nBruce "
  created: '2009-04-08 07:43:09'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite>isn\u2019t it true that in German language, if you see a \u201Cc\u201D
    it is always followed by an \u201Ch\u201D or \u201Ck\u201D?</cite>\r\n\r\nBruce,
    basically that\u2019s correct. But German language is full of loan words and names
    from French, English, Greek, Latin and other languages \u2013 and has always been.
    So, a \u2018c\u2019 followed by something else than an \u2018h\u2019 or a \u2018k\u2019
    is actually pretty common.\r\nF"
  created: '2009-04-08 10:18:59'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "FWIW, we were just discussing the water metaphor in spacing here: \r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/56000"
  created: '2009-04-08 11:46:44'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "Ray Nash, who taught several generations of typographers from his studio
    at Dartmouth College in New Hampshire, also used the water idea to explain letter
    spacing. It is interesting to note that this notion has been mentioned from several
    sources both here and the threat altaira referenced. I never got around to mentioning
    Nash while reading that thread.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2009-04-08 15:19:39'
date: '2009-02-02 21:08:12'
title: Opinions on Meridien for books?

---
