---
author:
  name: Maurice Meilleur
  picture: 109643
body: "Before anyone says anything, I know ... design contests for a prize and the
  use of the design are usually spec work, and even though I'm no sort of design professional,
  I know the ethical problems of spec work. But I'm in an argument about one such
  contest and I need some better-informed opinions than mine.\r\n\r\nFirst, <a href=\"http://www.worth1000.com/contest.asp?contest_id=22829&display=photoshop\">here's
  the link to the contest, on Worth1000</a>.\r\n\r\nThe author is a social scientist
  who has written a textbook on research methods. Her info is not on the page, so
  you can't write her to chew her out if you think this is a bad idea. Please don't
  try to figure it out and email her anyway; this may be a teachable moment, and it
  certainly is not an invitation to a mobbing. She got the idea for a cover contest
  from a friend of hers who published what looks to be a book available in digital
  form only who did the same for his book's cover.\r\n\r\nWhat it also doesn't appear
  to say on the page is that the publisher is the University of Michigan Press. (Please
  don't email them either.) The author explains that she gave the idea to the press,
  who agreed.\r\n\r\nHer arguments in favor of the contest: that most methods texts
  have pretty badly designed covers, that she wants a cool cover, and that this process
  allows more people to contribute ideas. The winner gets $150, which she claims is
  fine given the budget for the book; publishers of academic books in her view/experience
  rarely pay much for a cover design anyway.\r\n\r\nMy arguments against her: getting
  a professional to do the job is a better way of getting a good design; spec work
  is unethical even if those who apply are happy to do it and want or need the cash;
  if budget was really an issue the press could have farmed the job to folks in the
  UM design program (or even in the design program at the author's school), where
  it can be part of the apprenticeship aspect of the program; and $150 is pretty meager
  pay for a cover design, even given the competition. (What I didn't say is that university
  presses can and do often have great cover designs and designers, and that there's
  no reason why UM Press shouldn;t have been able to find someone to do it well.)\r\n\r\nFor
  those inclined to chime in, here's what I want to know:\r\n\r\n1. This is spec work,
  right? Or not?\r\n\r\n2. If it is, does it matter--that is, is it on the level of
  spec work that, say, design students are at when one of their class assignments
  is to create a logo or an ad for a local company or nonprofit or their own school,
  one of which the organization in question will use? Is the personal nature of the
  contest--she wants her friends to suggest cover designs and has posted the link
  to the page on a blog to which she contributes--a mitigating factor? Then again,
  it is on Worth1000 ... but then again (again), does this sort of thing happen all
  the time, and no one cares?\r\n\r\n3. What are the ethics of Michigan signing onto
  this? Why didn't they tap their in-house folks to do this, or their stable of freelancers?
  Why on earth would they think this is a good idea? Of course, if the answer to 1.
  or 2. above is 'no', then this question answers itself.\r\n\r\n4. For a book cover
  as described in the contest rules (6 x 9 paperback, front-cover only), what (ballpark)
  do you think the average designer who does such work would charge? Does $150 fall
  inside that ballpark?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Chad Kent
    picture: 116776
  body: "The <em>Pricing & Ethical Guidlines</em> list the customary fee for \"1 concept,
    design, and presentation of finished front cover and spine\" as:\r\n\r\n<strong>Textbook
    Hardcover:</strong> $1000-$2500; 2nd concept, $150-$500\r\n\r\n\r\n<strong>Textbook
    Paperback:</strong> $725-$2500; 2nd concept, $225-$500\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nOf course,
    these are only guidlines. In my opinion, $150 is ridiculously low, but that's
    the other side of our super-connected world; there's always someone out there
    willing to do it for cheap\u2026and it usually looks it in the end.\r\n\r\n\r\nI
    can't imagine spending many hours on a book jacket design for less than a postcard's
    worth of fee. Worse than that, it's a competition, so there's no telling who gets
    it."
  created: '2009-02-03 04:35:20'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'I''ve only skimmed the post and didn''t follow the link. However, I wonder
    how the author would feel if the book content was also a spec project? '
  created: '2009-02-03 04:51:18'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: '$150 is what people pay for eBook cover designs on crappy job sites like
    Guru.com. Doing a $150 job via a spec contest is just despicable. '
  created: '2009-02-03 05:14:01'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "This does not sound kosher. The brief is a pretty standard one, as one would
    get from a publisher; yet the competition setup, the required reading link, the
    fee are all suspect. I wonder whether it is not in itself a sociology research
    project (... <em>sociologist and communication scholar who teaches research methods
    in the Media, Technology and Society program</em>), with the participants as Guinea
    pigs.\r\n\r\nIn any case, it is clearly exploitative and in poor taste. The publishing
    industry might be in a tight spot but this is shameful."
  created: '2009-02-03 05:34:19'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: "Simon, in a sense, all books (or at least their first couple chapters) are
    written on spec. I think that's part of the problem here--it's hard for authors
    to know the ethics of work involving other people in the trade because they're
    paid on a different principle. It's especially hard for academics because it's
    rare for academic titles to make much money; textbooks (of certain sorts, anyway)
    do better, but often not a lot better. The payoff for academics of publishing
    is dissemination of their ideas by a press with a reputable editorial staff, and
    hence increased stature in their field, which is necessary for tenure and promotion.
    \r\n\r\nThis is why I'm not hoping to gather arguments and smash her defenses
    to the ground; I think it would be good if I could persuade her that quality matters
    for all parts of a book, and that the more that people who make all of those parts
    think about each other and support each others' work, the more quality books there
    will be published (or, the books that are published will be of higher quality)."
  created: '2009-02-03 06:19:19'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "In my experience, most academics are encouraged or even required to publish.
    At the same time, many of them are on salary while writing their work. Arguments
    such as \u2018I only research/write in my free time\u2019 are hard to take seriously.
    How does this excuse exploiting designers?"
  created: '2009-02-03 08:26:55'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: It doesn't <em>excuse</em> it at all; at least, I don't think it does. (That's
    why I told her what she was doing wasn't ethical, that why I posed you all these
    questions, &c.) That other people are paid for their creative work according to
    a different principle than she is, a principle she doesn't know or understand,
    might <em>explain</em> why she wouldn't think of all the effects of her choices.
    Unless you think someone is acting maliciously--and the author here clearly is
    not--it's good to keep those explanations in mind when you're trying to convince
    them of their error.
  created: '2009-02-03 12:12:22'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: 'I get it now. Sociology: no idea about people, society, consequences or morality.
    Huh.'
  created: '2009-02-03 13:01:30'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: Professionals won't waste their time with these things, but they are a good
    opportunity for a student or novice to possibly get a job in their portfolio,
    or do just do as a creative exercise.
  created: '2009-02-03 13:20:27'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: Perhaps another way to explain the problem to a sociologist would be to point
    out that the expected return on creating a design is $150 divided by the probability
    that one's design will be the one chosen. If, for example, 15 students of equal
    skill submit designs for the contest, the expected return is $10, and so one should
    not expect to get more than $10 worth of design work, which is maybe 10 minutes
    :)
  created: '2009-02-03 14:20:39'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: "It's rather demeaning that other professionals hold such little regard for
    the design industry. Can I have the professor come in for a lecture and if I don't
    like their delivery not pay them or ask them to tweak it and give the same lecture
    2-3 more times and compete with 15 other guest lecturers for the fee? hardly.\r\n\r\n1.
    yes it's spec work\r\n\r\n2. There's a sucker born every minute and the more that
    keep taking these jobs the harder it is to be taken seriously as a designer.\r\n\r\n3.
    They should be ashamed that they are undermining an industry and peoples lively
    hood so they can save some money and still mark up their printing costs. Surly
    the union would go on strike if they found out classes were going to be taught
    by 3rd year TA's and ousted all the tenured professors. "
  created: '2009-02-03 17:13:24'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "<cite>I wonder whether it is not in itself a sociology research project (...
    sociologist and communication scholar who teaches research methods in the Media,
    Technology and Society program), with the participants as Guinea pigs </cite>\r\n\r\nGiven
    the read tape on any kind of legitimate study involving people, I'd doubt it.
    \ To start off with she'd have to have the project approved and she'd have to
    inform you of it and you'd have to consent.  One of the instructors I worked with
    at Auburn was doing a project on learning methods and just wanted to use agreggate
    student scores from the exams she gave.  An incredible amount of paperwork for
    something so simple.\r\n\r\n$150 sounds okay for a student project.  I agree though
    she should have first proposed it to her university's department.  (actually,
    it's dispicable the amount that universities farm out design work or other such
    things when they could just do it internally and help students better pay for
    college)\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos
    cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2009-02-03 17:16:21'
- author:
    name: Chad Kent
    picture: 116776
  body: "Found an interesting site that is working to educate designers, and those
    that wish to employ them, about the vast down-side of spec work.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.no-spec.com/\r\n\r\nThey
    have a pretty useful campaign going to help spread the awareness through the web
    and print; there are \"anti-spec\" posters contributed by other designers.\r\n\r\nLike
    this one by Von Glitschka of [[http://www.glitschka.com/|Glitschka Studios]]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/spec_hurts_poster_5247.gif]"
  created: '2009-02-03 19:54:33'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I've been meaning to write up a blog post about this. Maybe I'll share my
    thesis here and get some feedback...\r\n\r\nI believe it was the NYTs that recently
    had an article on CrowdSpring as a tool to have graphic design work done. A colleague
    recently went this route and was asking for feedback on logos that were being
    submitted to his crowdspring request.\r\n\r\nI replied with the standard 'it's
    a lose-lose proposition' and was replied back to with a suggestion that I might
    be elitist.\r\n\r\nI didn't take offense to that nor do I think it was meant to
    be one, but it did get me thinking that I need to formulate WHY it's a lose-lose
    situation. So, here it is. I tried to use some math and a (silly?) analogy to
    hopefully get my point across. Would love some feedback on it:\r\n\r\n---------------------------------------------\r\n\r\nAre
    design contests a good buy?\r\n\r\nMany people believe that 'crowd sourcing' (a
    pretty way to say 'contest') is a good way to generate graphic design solutions.
    The typical method is to offer a cash prize , offer a brief project request, and
    then have a number of people  enter a design solution hoping to win the prize.\r\n\r\nThe
    logic usually used is the person offering the prize is getting multiple solutions
    for the price of one, broadening the chances of finding something brilliant.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    the math doesn't add up. Let's start by declaring our variables:\r\n\r\n1) Prize
    offered = we'll say $200, as that seems to be a slightly higher-than-average offering
    on these design sites.\r\n\r\n2) Average Number of Entrants = we'll say 10, as
    that seems to be a slightly lower-than-average number of entrants.\r\n\r\n3) Average
    hourly rate to higher a professional designer = we'll really low-ball this and
    say $50/hour.\r\n\r\nHere's how the math works out:\r\n\r\nIf a designer is up
    against 9 competitors for each contest entered, let's assume that they win an
    average of 1 out of 10 times. For every 10 logos they design, they win $200. $200/10
    = $20. At a $50 per hour rate, to break even, they can't be spending more than
    25 minutes per logo (we rounded up 1 minute).\r\n\r\nAs someone that might be
    interested in using crowdsourcing to source your graphic design, you then need
    to answer these questions:\r\n\r\n1) Can a vendor fully understand your business
    needs and requirements to fully explore a proper design solution in 25 minutes?
    Do you think there's full due diligence happening in the creation of these solutions?\r\n\r\n2)
    Do you think top talent in the design field would be spending their time on these
    types of gambles?\r\n\r\n3) Do you think your $200 given directly to a known designer
    who's work you like and trust would be a better investment? (As you'd get 4 dedicated
    hours of their time)\r\n\r\nUltimately, all a contest creator (client) is getting
    is many choices, none of which will likely be great. And, contrary to belief,
    the designer entering the contest isn't getting portfolio quality work. You have
    to cut corners somewhere if you're pumping work out in 25 minutes.\r\n\r\nYou
    can spend $20 at Old Country Buffet, or you can spend $20 at your local neighborhood
    restaurant. The former is going to give you a lot of options, but not one of those
    options would ever be considered a fine meal. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nCAVEATS: To be fair,
    there's the 'global market' argument that states a $200 prize, while paltry in
    the US, might be well worth the effort in some 3rd world country. The problem
    is that it's likely a bit of a false economy. While living expenses elsewhere
    will certainly vary, the tools of the profession rarely do (typefaces, stock art,
    professional software, hardware, etc.)\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-03 21:32:52'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Potential Conclusion (Sorry, editing on the fly here...)\r\n\r\nAs a contest
    creator, you may feel that you're spreading your $200 over many more potential
    design solutions than you'd get by just hiring one designer, but that's also the
    problem. The designers entering the contest are also spreading the amount of time,
    effort and talent they can spend over multiple clients. Neither side is getting
    one-on-one time to fully realize the proper solution. Quantity is being created,
    but not any quality.\r\n\r\n(ultimately, my goal with this is to show that it's
    not just a bad bet for the graphic designers entering the contest, but that's
    it's also a bad bet for the person creating the contest...which apparently is
    contrary to what a lot of people believe. No matter how you may argue it, you
    never leave Old Country Buffet feeling smarter than when you entered.)"
  created: '2009-02-03 21:58:43'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "The whole proposition is bad. The main injury is, I think, not what the author\u2019s
    trying to do (they do not have to know or follow the rules) but that an established
    publisher would go along with it: the loss of a potential client to the design
    profession if UMich Press goes rogue. And if one gets away with it, you bet there\u2019ll
    be others."
  created: '2009-02-03 22:26:58'
- author:
    name: agarzola
    picture: 115831
  body: "1. Yes, there is no doubt in my mind that this qualifies as spec work.\r\n\r\n2.
    Normally, I would say \u201CNo. It doesn\u2019t matter. There will always be low-ballers
    willing to hold \u2018bang-for-buck\u2019 above all else, and there will always
    be bottom-feeders willing to cater to these clients. Furthermore, one cannot expect,
    in any industry (particularly one not regulated by a government body), for there
    to be nothing more than well-paying, 100% fair, completely on-the-level, win-win
    deals across the board. There is always \u2014ALWAYS\u2014 room for mediocre clients/mediocre
    work, and flat out bottom-of-the-barrel deals. So yeah, I stay away from spec
    work, but being all militant about it and treating it as such an unheard of abomination
    is childishly utopic.\u201D But in this case, there\u2019s #3\u2026\r\n\r\n3.
    The ethics of University of Michigan Press signing on to this are, quite simply,
    nonexistent. When an University, an establishment that should hold the academic,
    personal and professional integrity of its participants above everything else,
    decides to associate itself with this kind of practice \u2014one reserved, again,
    for poor quality clients seeking cheap labor\u2014, the message it is sending
    out is this: \u201CThis is what we\u2019re training you for. To go out and live
    off of the muck at the bottom of the barrel. No matter what we teach you here,
    in the end, price is king.\u201D I don\u2019t have a problem with Universities
    getting their students to do voluntary work for its projects. If students want
    to do free work for their alma mater, so be it. But this is just\u2026 low.\r\n\r\n4.
    As others have stated, $150 is pretty low. But I\u2019d rather give a project
    3 solid, sure-paid $50 hours than have to fly through ten projects at 18 minutes
    each just for the off chance of making the same amount.\r\n\r\n- \u2014 - \u2014
    - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 - \u2014 -\r\nWill food for type."
  created: '2009-02-04 02:37:33'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: A pretty interesting (albeit teeth-grinding) story on [[http://www.forbes.com/forbes/2009/0216/062.html|Fortune's
    site]] about CrowdSpring. It's not so much the guys who run this, or the janitors
    in Toronto, guys in Mumbai, and Grandmas in Alabama taking part, but the college-educated
    U.S. designers who participate that bothers/scares me.
  created: '2009-02-04 08:07:48'
- author:
    name: daniele capo
    picture: 113718
  body: "<cite>Are design contests a good buy?</cite>\r\n\r\nIn the example you can
    reverse your math. If the designer expects 20$ for 10 project it is true that
    the client gets 10 projects to choose from for 200$ (20$ for one project). If
    the client choose a good designer, she is going to pay maybe 700$ and, of course,
    not 10 logos to choose from. So the client should be educated enough to understand
    that quality and ethics justify the gap from 20$ to 700$ (that is like saying
    from 0 to 700).\r\n\r\nFor my experience, in Italy, that is an unrealistic expectation.
    It is unrealistic also because we are (I\u2018m thinking of my country) flooded
    by \u2018visual noise\u2019 that (mis)educates people in the opposite direction.\r\nThe
    only way to fight against the disvaluation of design work is spending a lot of
    times trying to educate people about design, visual culture ecc.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-04 09:00:51'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Brave new world. When all the entries are in, let\u2019s have a committee
    meeting and select a winner. Then we\u2019ll ask the winner to incorporate ideas
    and bits and pieces from other submissions, as requested by the committee\u2019s
    members ... that way everyone from Michigan to Mumbai is a loser."
  created: '2009-02-04 11:55:52'
- author:
    name: merkri
  body: "I don't know. Let's say that the award was 100000. Would that make it any
    different? I suspect that it's not the award process per se (this happens all
    the time in other fields), it's the amount involved. \r\n\r\nI think it's difficult
    to say something like this is unethical unless you know the specific situation
    involved. As Chris Keegan noted, this might be appropriate for a student, or someone
    who is just looking to get noticed, or maybe they're experimenting with something
    anyway and want some extra cash for something they would have otherwise shoved
    in a drawer, or maybe they just want to because they do. Who's to say what this
    is worth to them? That's their decision. For some people, this might be demeaning,
    but for others perhaps not--it might be a small opportunity. "
  created: '2009-02-04 23:43:10'
- author:
    name: TypographyShop
    picture: 114870
  body: "A friend recently sent a link to his fellow designers.  The subject line
    was \"In case you weren't sure graphic design as a profession was dead.\"  \r\n\r\n[[http://logotournament.com|This]]
    is where he sent me. Logo Tournament is the most despicable sort of example one
    could find.  They've got scores of kids - some with talent - around the world
    just giving it away day and night, clients paying peanuts for clich\xE9d solutions.
    Worth's threat is nothing compared to these folks."
  created: '2009-02-05 15:01:02'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "@MiseEnAbime I understand what you are saying.\r\n\r\nTo clarify, I was trying
    to distill it down to a 'what do you get for the dollar spent'.\r\n\r\nThe same
    $x spent on a designer vs. a contest will yield different results:\r\n\r\n - With
    a contest, you'll get quantity, but typically very little quality.\r\n - with
    a sole designer, you'll get quality, albeit probably not quantity.\r\n\r\nSo that
    leaves us asking the question \"when you're shopping for graphic design, are you
    looking for quantity or quality?\"\r\n\r\nOf course the arguments about it being
    detrimental to the industry, or slave labor, or what have you are all valid, but
    there seems to be an easier argument to be made in that a client wanting to have
    a contest is just getting a bad return on their dollar."
  created: '2009-02-05 15:55:58'
- author:
    name: Mr Doug
    picture: 115785
  body: "Behind every contest lies a small nugget of truth: \r\n<strong>In the end,
    something magic will happen.</strong>\r\n\r\nIt's not that she wants \"more\"
    or \"cool\" options. She simply doesn't have the budget to hire the right talent
    for the job. It's like hosting a \"cool\" party -- would you invite \"cool\" people?
    Or would you post flyers on every light post in town and cross your fingers the
    homeless don't show up? It's okay, something magic will happen and make it all
    better.\r\n\r\nContests don't create magic. If you build it, famous ghost baseball
    players won't come out of the cornfield. More mediocrity doesn't produce excellence,
    just more mediocrity. Good things simply take time, work and money."
  created: '2009-02-05 19:17:51'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: 'A follow-up to my original post: The contest is over, <a href="http://www.worth1000.com/contest.asp?contest_id=22829&display=photoshop&page=5000#entries">the
    entries are in</a>!'
  created: '2009-02-13 21:54:50'
date: '2009-02-03 01:23:38'
node_type: forum
title: Some questions regarding a design contest - Worth1000 Photoshop Contest

---
