---
author:
  name: peggo
  picture: 128366
body: "<!--break-->Hi dear Typophilians mates..!!\r\n:D\r\nI'm happy to notice you
  that I'm working in a new proyect with the specially target to solve a old need..
  some lowercases like trajan Uppercases style... then.. I tried to do some bussines
  like that.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Legan-TrajanLow_SHOW_II_590w_6072.jpg]\r\n\r\nAnd
  if someone wanana see details just click  [[http://typophile.com/files/Legan-TrajanLow_PDF-SHOW.pdf|<strong>\"LEGAN
  PDF file\"</strong>]]\r\n\r\n:D\r\nPedro [PeGGO]"
comments:
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I think this has a lot of potential and really like the feel of it.\r\nYou
    need to thin your diagonals down a bit. They look too dark (A, V, W especially).\r\nKeep
    going with this, it's going to come out really nice!\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-05 19:39:44'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Bendy is right about the diagonals. Also, the \"A\" could be substantially
    narrower, the \"H\" a bit wider. \"E\" and \"F\" are okay now, but could be narrower
    to get more of a Trajan feel.\r\n\r\nIt might be a side effect of the screen resolution
    that would disappear if I saw a PDF, but is there either a lack of overshoot on
    your rounds, or is it getting suppressed at too large a size?\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-02-10 00:34:08'
- author:
    name: peggo
    picture: 128366
  body: ":D\r\nThank you Bendy, I'll follow your words for continue this work... That
    I'm loving to try make a good gook.. :D and this help me to have a better view.\r\n\r\nThomas\r\nThank
    you so much for be so specific. Although I like this \"A\" width, I'll right with
    Bendy and you about down its diagonal weight. I'll also check that about \"E\"
    and \"F\" Trajan feel then I believe this include \"L\" too.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure
    about overshoot on rounds, and I never Understood the PDF view technology... cuz
    many times I get so far results from original.. but well, I'll get off the fullscreen
    mode from this file and I'll try to upload again soon.. btw I'll need a print
    of this for get a better analisys.\r\n\r\nThank you so much mates for C&C and
    sorry for my messy english I'm too bad...!!!\r\nPeGGO"
  created: '2009-02-12 02:54:07'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I'm suggesting on the overshoot question that you *might* need more overshoot,
    but it may also be that hinting or the low-res display is causing me to mis-estimate
    that. Something like a PDF - or just a larger size sample - would help me tell
    if that's a real issue or just an artifact of low-res preview.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-02-14 03:59:24'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Some observations, which may or may not be worth addressing:\r\n\r\nI agree
    with Thomas on the A, think it needs narrowing quite a bit.\r\n\r\nB looks a bit
    dark, the top bowl could be bigger to give more counterspace and lighten the glyph?\r\n\r\nE
    and F are really interesting shapes.\r\n\r\nC, G, O, Q and S definitely need some
    overshoot. C and D and G look a bit light.\r\n\r\nThe vertical stem on G looks
    a bit tall.\r\n\r\nThe flared serifs on I and L are not the same as other characters.
    \r\n\r\nThere's something odd happening on the join of K and the lower leg could
    start a tiny bit nearer the join?\r\n\r\nM is interesting too. You might need
    some overshoot at the top. The flared feet should be curved to match other letters.\r\n\r\nThat's
    a really nice tail on the Q.\r\n\r\nMake the spine of S a bit heavier?\r\n\r\nTighten
    the inner counter of the U, the curve looks a little loose.\r\n\r\nVWXYZ need
    curves I think.\r\n\r\nLowercase:\r\n\r\nGenerally, you need overshoot on the
    bowl characters, and some of the curves will need smoothing. The joins also.\r\n\r\nThe
    ear of g needs to be more sure of itself and more flowing from the bowl, perhaps
    with a curve somewhere.\r\n\r\nI just noticed your tittles! I think on the exclamation
    mark the dot should be inverted. \r\n\r\nt looks out of character and I think
    the top needs reviewing.\r\n\r\nv looks like the point is too far left. \r\n\r\nAre
    you working on the numerals?\r\n\r\nIt'll be very interesting to see how this
    develops. I think your strongest glyphs are EFMNQS and acfgsy. You could use them
    to preview other letters against, in order to harmonise the curves more.\r\n\r\nHope
    that's helpful! :)"
  created: '2009-02-14 12:12:36'
- author:
    name: peggo
    picture: 128366
  body: "Thomas:\r\n\r\n Oh now I get a better undertanding about your question, when
    I can continue this work (cuz nowdays I'm not at home) I'll check slowly the overshoot
    on rounds gliphs and btw I just need learn about bitmap too for guarantee an accurate
    hinting when type is displayed like small size on screen. \r\n\r\nI'm not sure
    if you can see the PDF file below above the sample preview there. If not, I'll
    try to show a larger size sample soon.\r\n\r\nBendy:\r\n\r\n  This absolutely
    useful, in fact, now I can see many more details and think better how can improve
    it. I'm taking note. And sorry for show an uncomplete sample, this is the reason
    you saw some square shapes there, I felt so happy to share my progress work, then
    I wasn't care about. \r\n\r\nI'm not digital working on numerals yet, I just have
    done a basic drawing on my sketchbook only. but hope soon I will.\r\n\r\nAnd when
    I have done changes ready I'll show and I'll comment my point of view about your
    several suggestions, that wow! this is an amazing observation! thanks you a lot
    Bendy! :D\r\n\r\n\r\nAn thanks so much mates for help me to improve my design
    so.\r\n\r\nPeGGO"
  created: '2009-02-15 21:21:57'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Hey, I know how you feel about being excited to share your work! I'm glad
    my suggestions are useful but be careful to decide which suggestions work for
    you and which don't.\r\n\r\nGood luck! :)"
  created: '2009-02-15 23:39:06'
- author:
    name: peggo
    picture: 128366
  body: "Hi Mates..!!\r\n\r\nI come to leave a little update:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/A-_5954.PNG]\r\n\"A\"
    narrowed and overshoot applied. \r\nI really like the light of the old version
    but I admite this is a bit near to TRAJAN pattern and I also like it.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/B-_4941.PNG]\r\n\r\nOn
    \"B\" I'm absolutely agree with Bendy suggestion.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/C-_5064.PNG]\r\n\r\n\"C\"
    with overshoot applied.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/D-_6150.PNG]\r\n\r\n\"D\"
    with a bit light. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/E-F-_6143.PNG]\r\n\"E\"
    and \"F\" a little narrowed decided from a litle trajan pattern analisys... although
    this pattern is not followed on 100%.\r\n\r\n\r\nI still feel all this need a
    better work but I'm working following many good advices from you Bendy, Thomas
    too and some friends and well... just check the PDF file please for watch entire
    changes..!!\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/files/LEGAN_update_05-03-2009.pdf\r\n\r\nlater
    more closeup comparations.\r\n\r\nThanks for your support, your comments and critiques
    and then for your time.\r\n\r\nPeGGO"
  created: '2009-03-11 15:58:00'
- author:
    name: peggo
    picture: 128366
  body: "Fixed a little nearest to Trajan pattern.. like Bendy said so well there
    above, thanks for advices and the support, currently I'm working specially on
    curves on gesture of \"C\" and \"G\", the wide of \"A, O, Q and E\", fixed curves
    on serifs and other details, all prepared for kerning work ar last.\r\nAny suggestion
    are welcomed.. Best regards..!!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/LEGAN_01-08-2010_UPDATE_4938.png]\r\nhttp://typophile.com/files/LEGAN_01-08-2010_update_PRINT.pdf"
  created: '2010-08-02 02:08:45'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "I liked the general feel of it at first glance, but there are a lot of stuff
    that need attention here.\r\n\r\nI would advice against breaking the connection
    (crossbar) in lowercase \xE6. A better solution would be a diagonal connection.
    Also, your \xE5/\xC5 is sloppy. The ring should not touch the letter \u2014 it
    should be centered above it. The ring would also benefit from a shape more like
    your o in terms of contrast and axis. I also don\u2019t think the slash in \xD8/\xF8
    is working: It\u2019s to long, not centered and in need of some optical correction.
    \r\n\r\nIn general I think most of your diacritics and a lot of the glyphs listed
    under \u201Cother\u201D need more work. I especially noticed your ogoneks. We
    had a thread on that topic a short while ago. Do a search for more information.\r\n\r\nThorn
    (uc) and eth (lc) should sit on the baseline with the other glyphs. \r\nI\u2019m
    uncertain about your p descender.\r\nO and o don\u2019t have the same contrast
    or axis.\r\nC, G, c and e are leaning left.\r\nr needs work.\r\nThe eye of g is
    optically lighter than the tail. \r\nI think u might be too wide.\r\ny does not
    look balanced to me.\r\nSome of the numbers look sqoushed.\r\ns too narrow?\r\nHairlines
    in x/X need optical adjustments.\r\n\r\n\r\nThere are optical problems all over
    the place: the x-height isn\u2019t consistent, a lot of the connections between
    curves and stems get very heavy and what\u2019s with the lowered \xD1? And why
    is the tilde so different from the lc version?\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s my two cents.
    Forgive me for the lack of proper terminology \u2014 I\u2019m not a professional
    type designer quite yet, so please take my advice with a grain of salt."
  created: '2010-08-02 02:52:40'
- author:
    name: peggo
    picture: 128366
  body: "-\tYou was right, I did try to conect the crossbar of \u2018\xE6\u2019 I
    done a very low diagonal angle now.\r\n-\tOn \u2018\xE5, \xC5\u2019 I increassed
    the spaced between Ring and letter and like you said I take the same \u2018o\u2019
    pattern. (The out of center on \u2018\xC5\u2019 was a mistake, now is centered
    yet)\r\n-\tI\u2019m not sure if \u2018\xD8, \xF8\u2019 leave right or not, but
    not it\u2019s longless and centered, I really don\u2019t know so much about using
    of this symbol.\r\n-\tThe ogonek for me is almost a mistery yet cuz, actually
    I follow a topic about this before, but yes, I see that I need review for more
    info.\r\n-\tI try to correct \u2018\xDE\u2019 height and \u2018\xF0\u2019 position,
    but I\u2019m still working about.\r\n-\t Now Descenders lenght are balanced to
    Ascenders height (This happened cuz the ascenders size was changed for increase
    the x-height before but I forgot change the descenders too, anyway)\r\n-\t\u2018O,
    o\u2019  follow the same contrast and axis now.\r\n-\tWell you mention there \u201Cleaning
    left\u201D, in fact, I tried to put a little bit of calligrafic touch of that
    kind of leaning specially on that gliphs, but again it was out of the generall
    system of the alphabeth.\r\n-\tI was work \u2018r\u2019 using a \u201CRoot five
    proportion\u201D now (a geometrical greek proportion taken from TRAJAN LETTERING
    patterns).\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Legan_proportions_6699.png]\r\n-\tI
    also tried to balance optical weights between \u2018g\u2019 eye and its tail now.\r\n-\tI
    need a better trainnig for my eyes in \u2018y\u2019 but I test it beside to a
    Garamond and a Baskerville \u2018y\u2019 for get a couple of best references,
    still is uncertain, so, I decided to go for optical feels.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/y_LEGAN_6247.png]\r\n-\tNumbers
    still not reviewed.\r\n-\t\u2018X, x\u2019 hairlines corrected and proportionated
    according geometrical greek patterns.\r\n-\tIn fact \u2018s, S\u2019 is narrowed
    cuz are following the same pattern based on the \u201Croot five\u201D of greek
    geometrical proportion.\r\n-\tOn '\xD1' I made a such different beside lowercase
    one cuz actually my native tounge is spanish, and we use this kind, is not so
    commom but sometimes we have a special version of that, it's just an alternative,
    done specially for spanish language, I don't know if other cultures or languages
    need a \u2018\xD1\u2019 with a traditional tilde as \u2018\xF1\u2019.\r\n\r\nThank
    you so much dear mate Frode I appreciate your very useful advices, really.\r\nDetails,
    corrections or any just notice me please, are so welcomed!\r\nThank you again
    and Best regards!\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/files/Legan_1.007_0.pdf\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Legan_1_4612.007_texto.png]"
  created: '2010-08-09 19:29:14'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "That's starting to come together. Feels a bit like a warmer and more modern
    alternative to Optima. The \"g\" and the ampersand are among the most flavorful
    elements; if you swapped just those two letterforms out for more conservative
    designs you'd have a very different feel.\r\n\r\nSpacing (or perhaps kerning)
    may need quite a bit of work yet.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-08-10 08:55:56'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: I don't see the sense of the brushy slashes and dashes. The looseness doesn't
    seem to go with the Trajan aesthetic at all. In the fractions and maths especially,
    they just look silly, like mock Chinese.
  created: '2010-08-10 19:03:07'
- author:
    name: bigbill
  body: I think it's really beautiful! But I agree with cerulean on the brushiness..
  created: '2010-08-13 02:16:19'
- author:
    name: peggo
    picture: 128366
  body: "Thank you all guys for the support!\r\n\r\nThanks Thomas, in fact I'm working
    on OTF and metrics adjustments but and until now I'm grouping the kerning classes
    but still not running yet.\r\n\r\nCerulean, just like you said, I'm review all
    gliphs then I correct shapes using Geometrical proportions now and a similarity
    even more close, so you can see now the news on complete 1.007 version below\r\n\r\nThanks
    BigBill for the support!\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/files/Legan%201.007.pdf\r\n\r\nBest
    Regards!\r\nPedro"
  created: '2010-08-17 05:07:18'
- author:
    name: peggo
    picture: 128366
  body: "Working now on Kerning and OTF Features\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Legan_OTF_550w_4912.gif]\r\n\r\nSome
    advice of comment please just drop it..!!\r\nbest regards!\r\nPedro"
  created: '2010-08-19 05:11:29'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "This is shaping up really nicely! Keep up the good work.\r\n\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2010-08-19 10:11:09'
- author:
    name: peggo
    picture: 128366
  body: "Thanks Lex.. in fact this work mean a very hard work but a great school to
    learn about boulding and trajan design..!!\r\n\r\nand here an image with out aliassing
    distort noise, a better choice to view details now.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Legan_OTF_550w_6533.gif]\r\n\r\nand
    a little image bonus too.\r\nDrawing process and Caligraphic studies on scene..!!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/LEGAN-Process_550w_4343.jpg]\r\n\r\nBest
    Regards dear typophilian mates!\r\n=)\r\nPedro"
  created: '2010-08-20 04:17:01'
- author:
    name: peggo
    picture: 128366
  body: "I would like to know if someone of you know some about greek & cyrillic design..
    well I'm trying to understand how could I increase the target use of this font..
    well.. my first attempt start here with some sketches also based on geometrinal
    proportions\r\n\r\n[[http://behance.vo.llnwd.net/profiles2/182372/projects/636286/ad76c29a1fe87de8124c707be7488b67.jpg|Sketches
    here]]\r\n\r\nI specially pay attention in another families that have available
    this character set were almost of cases the general axis is inclined and shapes
    are so variable but on UC cyrillic letters are so regular, symetric perpendicular
    axis and sometimes with contrast inverse ex. 'R' or '\u042D'... I'm still so curious
    abour proportions of each Upper Case Cyrillic Letters and also greek letters...
    well.. this will be apart of current work.. but leave on progress status.\r\n\r\nThanks
    for your comments and time,\r\nBest Regards!\r\nPedro"
  created: '2010-08-22 03:22:53'
- author:
    name: peggo
    picture: 128366
  body: "Hi Dear Typophilian Mates!\r\nHere my first attempt trace on Greek & Cyrillic
    sets\r\nhttp://typophile.com/files/Legan_1.008.pdf\r\n\r\nComents, critiques,
    corrections and specially advices are always very welcomed..!!\r\nThanks for your
    time and support..!!\r\n\r\nBest Regards!\r\nPedro"
  created: '2010-08-25 02:21:12'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: "Impressive!\r\n\r\nA thick base for Delta would probably be a good idea.\r\n\r\nYou
    probably know this already, but the problem of stress in tau could take some more
    thought. Taper the vertical thinner to the join?\r\n\r\nI'm not an expert, but
    Cyrillic stone inscriptions in this sort of style seem to favor the form of \u041B
    that looks like \u039B and \u0414 that looks like \u0394 with spurs. It's more
    \"historical\". It would be good to have them as alternates at least. See Castle's
    <A HREF=\"http://castletype.posterous.com/work-in-progress-goudy-trajan-pro\">Goudy
    Trajan</A> for example."
  created: '2010-08-25 13:11:00'
- author:
    name: peggo
    picture: 128366
  body: "Thanks Kevin! In fact I don't know much about foreing languages like cyrillic
    or greek like that.. but I'm searching more information like you drop there, \"Goudy
    Trajan\" is a Beautiful font (thanks by the way) and yes... I think almost the
    same like you but also look several references and I will need to review for improve
    and refine specially this kind of gliphs.\r\n\r\nHonestly I really prefer the
    square \u0414 instead \u039B because I believe this square feature help to make
    a better diference between both languages mixing on same text probabilities or
    specific use needs. But yes I will leave it like alternates according user preferences.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/LEGAN-CYRILLIC-&-GREEK_4866.png]\r\n\r\n[[http://lh4.ggpht.com/_xG_l-WZXEhY/THcXa729Z5I/AAAAAAAAAGM/15pxLR8_kxY/LEGAN-CYRILLIC-%26-GREEK.png|Image
    here]]\r\n\r\nWhat think about the bigram \u0409 that kind appear on this image?
    \r\n(I see a little strange on Goudy Trajan solve)\r\n\r\nBest Regads!"
  created: '2010-08-27 02:47:38'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I don't know enough to comment on the Greek and Cyrillic, but I think the
    Latin's coming along nicely. Perhaps when little letters are nestled in the /L/s,
    you could put a bit more space between them horizontally?
  created: '2010-08-27 03:15:51'
- author:
    name: peggo
    picture: 128366
  body: "Thanks Eliason I'll update this very soon, some it's not work woth image
    upload in Typophile and I also have a little trouble with OTF features that I
    need fex.. any way.. see you soon..!!\r\n\r\nBest Regards!"
  created: '2010-09-01 05:06:32'
- author:
    name: peggo
    picture: 128366
  body: "Go for the upgrade in a new version [[http://typophile.com/files/Legan_1.010.pdf|Legan
    1.010]] (attached same file above on first comment) Were I correct details like
    ligarure, btw L+S mentioned by you Eliason, diacritis, mathematical added now
    & many other symbols filling several character sets for able more languages support,
    although I lose my OTF code but anyway the previous  version it's working right.\r\n\r\nSpecial
    comissions for add to character sets of Legan, comments, some kind or Advices
    are very welcomed ever.\r\n\r\nRegards to all!"
  created: '2010-09-05 03:47:23'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Looking good. I'm not sure there's a word in any language with \"Qg,\" but
    if there is, you've got a nice ligature ready! ;-)\r\n\r\nI'm not sold on that
    form of www ligature - it reads like a vw or wv to me. \r\n\r\nAngles on the quotation
    marks seem surprising to me.\r\n\r\nAlso, I wonder if the crossbar of the first
    letter in the FE and EE ligatures should just go straight through the stem without
    thickening into a terminal at the intersection."
  created: '2010-09-05 04:40:32'
- author:
    name: peggo
    picture: 128366
  body: "Hi Eliason!\r\nhaha, I also don't know well.. but I was do it for fun justa
    a guess.\r\nThe ligature \"vvv\" is an apostrophe figure of url www in fact when
    you use in its context cab understand its useful and almost nothing repair on
    it so much and understand that mean an alternate for url address form.\r\nhehe..
    I tried several forms for quotarion and I choice that give a very special unique
    look and run so well and according my testing that not violate any similarity
    with no one else glyph on diacritics and another kind of marks.\r\nWell I might
    to try that way for FE and EE intersection feature so then I could show the result..!!\r\n\r\nand
    \ well I leave here the new version updated at current date.\r\n[[http://typophile.com/files/Legan_1.017.pdf|Legan
    1.017.PDF]]\r\n=)\r\nRedards the best!\r\nPedro"
  created: '2010-09-15 02:16:03'
- author:
    name: peggo
    picture: 128366
  body: "BTW the \"vvv\" liga is just a personal way to representate to \"www\" (contracted
    way) and that is understand on its written context, but of course this is at least
    personal prerrefed option for write that long traditional version of web address.\r\n\r\nI'm
    working now on Alternates and improving fine details.\r\nStill not sure about
    the finial of horizontal stroke of currencies,\r\nI would like to know which criteria
    for decide this kind of things are bette, cuz I applied two ways for \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Currency-Alternates_5333.gif]\r\nregards
    dear mates..!!"
  created: '2010-10-03 04:54:01'
- author:
    name: peggo
    picture: 128366
  body: "Preferred Alternates on progress..!!\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Prerrefed-Alternates_3785.gif]\r\n\r\nand
    [[http://typophile.com/files/Legan_1.023.pdf|Specimen Update]]\r\nWere's find:\r\n-
    Arrows\r\n- Block Elements \r\n- Box Drawing\r\n- Subscripts/Inferiors, Denominators,
    Numerators & Superscripts/Superiors\r\n- Ordinals\r\n- Tabular Lining & Tabular
    Oldstyle\r\n- Fractions\r\n- Prerrefed alternates (According Specific Language)\r\n\r\nAnd
    several improve details\r\n\r\n\r\nBest Regards!"
  created: '2010-10-04 04:51:05'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: "Very thorough!\r\nThe small numbers for subscript/superscript/fractions appear
    to be simply scaled. If they are to be truly useful, you should add some weight
    to them."
  created: '2010-10-04 06:48:49'
- author:
    name: peggo
    picture: 128366
  body: In fact dear Kevin, they are temporary scaled cuz I'm on OFT programing code
    and just need the position of them, but hope soon fix the real weight for this
    and complete the small numbers set.
  created: '2010-10-05 01:24:53'
- author:
    name: peggo
    picture: 128366
  body: "New updates features [[http://typophile.com/files/Legan_1.026.pdf|Legan 1.026.PDF]]:\r\nReal
    small numbers for: SuperScript, SubScript, Numerators & Denominators.\r\n\r\nAnd
    Preferred forms:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Preferred_5777.gif]\r\n\r\nBTW
    I would like to be sure that Polish kreska work fine with \"OTF aalt feature\"
    cuz always persist the UNICODE paradox between simultaneous acute and kreska's
    use, I think the better solution is an specific unicode value for this kind of
    diacritic marks, but anyway, by now it's fixed through OTF alternate and supported
    by language code 'PLK'.\r\n\r\nC&C are always very welcomed.\r\n\r\nBest Regards."
  created: '2010-11-03 03:04:12'
- author:
    name: peggo
    picture: 128366
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/german-dieresis_6213.gif]\r\nHi dear
    typophilians mates.\r\n\r\nLEGAN is running all ok, but I still working on new
    updates and btw I wonder to know how could I solve this kind of German feature
    in better way for [\xCB], I tried to follow the same criteria present in [\xC4,
    \xD6, \xDC] in [\xCF, \xCB] but still not have an official solution about that.\r\n\r\ntroubles
    checkin out at now:\r\n[\xCF] looks like [T]\r\n[\xCB] look like regular [E] in
    small sizes.\r\n\r\nIn fact I saw some german brands showing \xC4 and \xD6 like
    that (inline), but I never saw a solution for inline Uppercase E, If somebody
    have information or knowledge about please drop a little bit of light.\r\n\r\n[[http://typophile.com/files/Legan%201.036.pdf|PDF
    LEGAN 1.036]]\r\n\r\nthank you a lot in advance\r\nBest regards\r\nPedro"
  created: '2011-01-30 03:00:15'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "The Germans get away with that because they don't use \xEB or \xEF, I think."
  created: '2011-01-30 04:38:34'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "In a modern font, this style of diaeresis will in any case be seen as a gimmick.
    So I think the best solution to preserve the \u201Cancient style\u201D feeling
    is simply to shorten \xCF and \xCB."
  created: '2011-01-30 08:30:34'
- author:
    name: peggo
    picture: 128366
  body: "Eliason:\r\nA logical reason to explain this absence. Thanks a lot!\r\n\r\nRiccard0:\r\nI
    also guess so, in fact I'm already saw that kind of solution in another works
    but that cause a visual break of line and look a litle weird on inline Uppercase
    phrase, but you have reason about I'll try your advice and then I'll try to compare
    them both solutions and choice.. or al least leave like OTF alternates. Thank
    you so much!"
  created: '2011-01-30 20:20:05'
- author:
    name: Birdseeding
    picture: 121722
  body: "Definitely (as a Swede) would advice against the new umlaut form, /\xC4/
    and /\xD6/ need to be recognisable in running text and I'm not sure they are with
    the tittles spaced that far apart - they just look like decorated /A/ and /O/.\r\n\r\nOh,
    and as a Hungarian I think your double acutes could be a fair bit further right,
    looks wonky this way. ;) In any case you'd need to harmonize the umlauts and the
    double acutes, as the latter is the long form of the latter - if you do end up
    with the broad umlauts on the /\xD6/, You really need to do the same arrangement
    for /\u0150/."
  created: '2011-01-30 23:13:03'
- author:
    name: peggo
    picture: 128366
  body: "Birdseeding:\r\nThis feature is only for local German preferences... and
    just works like OTF alternates, so the traditional ways shoudn't work like this,
    if we consider what eliason said I can forget the \xCB and \xCF problem.. and
    so.. I can forget the /T/ effect resulting from the distance of dieresis and body
    of /I/ I take a wide value to avoid the \"T\" effect on smallsizes inline /\xCF/
    so I can fix now the distance of the rest /\xC4/\xD6/ nearest.\r\nI got it better
    now on hungarian umlauts and doubleacutes about, I'll add this advices to my next
    review and lookup again my documentation.\r\nthank you a lot."
  created: '2011-01-31 01:27:37'
- author:
    name: peggo
    picture: 128366
  body: "Hi dear Typophilian mates!!\r\n\r\nI just have a very good news for me..
    haha.. the great day it's ready, Legan is on sale on [[http://www.fonts.com/findfonts/searchresults.htm?kid=peggo|Font.com]]
    and [[http://www.itcfonts.com/fonts/mondosearchresults.htm?st=12&kid=peggo|ITC]]
    too.\r\n\r\nIf you are curious just check for this out:\r\n[[http://www.fonts.com/findfonts/detail.htm?productid=826431]]\r\n\r\nI'm
    so glad and I want to say thanks for all help you give me for improve details
    specially on Legan font.\r\n\r\nThak you a lot!"
  created: '2011-04-21 22:55:20'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: "As an aspiring type designer myself \u2013 and believe me I have been aspiring
    for a long long time \u2013 i must say this is a really handsome typeface. Are
    you planning italics and other weights"
  created: '2011-04-23 15:41:39'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Congrats peggo!
  created: '2011-04-23 16:16:55'
- author:
    name: peggo
    picture: 128366
  body: "Gary Lonergan:\r\nThank you Gary for your kind words, in fact I just started
    to drawing the Italics and bold weights, but is a very long and a hard work, specially
    for this one font.\r\n\r\neliason:\r\nThanks you so much!"
  created: '2011-04-24 00:01:52'
date: '2009-02-05 01:37:49'
files:
- filename: Legan_1.010.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Legan_1.010.pdf
- filename: Legan_1.017.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Legan_1.017.pdf
- filename: Legan_1.023.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Legan_1.023.pdf
- filename: Legan_1.026.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Legan_1.026.pdf
- filename: Legan 1.036.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Legan 1.036.pdf
node_type: forum
title: LEGAN (Trajan Pattern Lower Cases)

---
