---
author:
  name: _Palatine_
  picture: 115977
body: "I tried to increase the print density from 3 to 5, to no avail. These two otherwise
  gorgeous classics haven't survived the trip to digital.\r\n\r\nI've got Corundum
  Text, and although it looks like an Electra-ish, Fairfield-ish revival, it's too
  far removed. Same for Prensa. \r\n\r\nAre there any others I should be looking at?\r\n\r\nThanks."
comments:
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Quiosco is a little bit more weighty Electra-ish design:\r\n\r\nwww.fontbureau.com/fonts/Quiosco\r\n\r\nNot
    available for Retail license yet, however.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-07 00:32:01'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Fairfield looks pretty solid to me on pulpy paper. I must be reading the 55.
  created: '2009-02-07 02:32:21'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "You might take a look at Whitman. It is a little light for these tired old
    eyes, but the contrast (thick/thin stroke ratio) is just right for direct-to-plate
    offset printing. Pretty good with PostScript laser printers, too.\r\n\r\nA font
    that looks interesting but I haven't tried is Emerson. It <cite>looks</cite> like
    they have adjusted the contrast for modern printing, but no guarantees. \r\n\r\nThese
    fonts are not revivals of Electra or Fairfield, but 21st century interpretations
    of the same kind of thinking."
  created: '2009-02-07 13:26:22'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "I'll give Fairfield 55 another shot, on different paper. Whitman as well.
    \r\n\r\nWho makes Emerson?\r\n\r\nThanks for the replies."
  created: '2009-02-07 15:11:13'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Emerson can be found at\r\n\r\nhttp://www.nonpareiltype.com/\r\n\r\nI wonder
    if here is no f_i ligature?"
  created: '2009-02-07 16:13:02'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: I see one in the PDF, and an ff as well.
  created: '2009-02-07 16:26:11'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "I have Nonpareil's Emerson. I haven't had occasion to use it yet, and I am
    unconcluded as to how I feel about it. I love metal Emerson, and this doesn't
    feel quite the same. Perhaps no one is more qualified to revive Emerson than Jerry
    Kelly, but still . . . . \r\n\r\nPerhaps it's just that <em>je ne sais quoi</em>
    that seems to always prevent any revival from recapturing the essence of metal.
    It's certainly more comfortable than the digitizations of Electra, Caledonia,
    et al.\r\n\r\nThere are f and double-f ligatures; but oddly enough, the fi and
    ffi don't connect. Actually, now that I look at my metal example, the fi ligature
    doesn't connect in the original either. But the digital revival retains the tittle,
    rather than arching the arm over to shelter the i as in the metal.\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    I can post comparisons later.\r\n\r\nBTW, the new Whitman Semibold is just a tad
    heavier than the Roman and might appease those looking for a slightly darker Whitman,
    especially on coated stock.\r\n\r\n-- K."
  created: '2009-02-07 17:28:16'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Here's a comparison of metal and digital Emerson. The metal sample is taken
    from a 1992 checklist of an exhibition held at The Grolier Club, <cite>German
    Fine Printing 1948&#150;1988</cite>, designed by Jerry Kelly and composed and
    printed at The Stinehour Press. The digital is my recreation of the same excerpt
    using Jerry Kelly's digital revival of Emerson.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Emerson_GermanFinePrinting_3615.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Emerson-digital_GFP_4182.png]\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\nObviously,
    the metal/letterpress has ink gain which the digital does not presume to reproduce.
    The digital is fitted overall a bit looser. (In order to preserve the same line
    breaks, I had to set the measure about 3% longer.) The overall contrast is not
    bad, as Charles observed. I think I might have liked just a touch more weight
    in the serifs, myself. \r\n\r\nI've been hoping to see this Emerson set and printed
    in a typical trade setting to properly gauge the face.\r\n\r\nThere are some unexplained
    idiosyncrasies in the digital version. Notice the fi ligature in \"first\" in
    the sixth line. That is indeed the so-called ligature in the digital recreation.
    The arm of the f is pulled back and the tittle is retained, as I mentioned above.
    In addition, the spacing seems a little tight in relation to the looser fitting.\r\n\r\nI
    am also at a loss to explain the tightening of the double quotation marks so much.
    Granted, the original may have been individual single-quote sorts and is a bit
    loose. But the digital is too tight for my taste.\r\n\r\nThese are minor quibbles.
    The overall production looks sound to me. As I said, certainly preferable to most
    current digital versions of other popular book typefaces from that period.\r\n\r\n--
    Kent."
  created: '2009-02-08 16:02:54'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Thanks Kent. I do find the digital version too light (especially if what
    Kent is showing us is a typical laser printer printout. DTP-offset would be lighter,
    and with more contrast).\r\n\r\nOn this whole notion of ink gain: If we are to
    believe what Smeijers said in <cite>Counterpunch</cite>, the people who made metal
    punches took that into account. My conclusion is that *most* of what is termed
    \"ink gain\" is on purpose; the form of the raw punch is not correct.\r\n\r\n*
    * *\r\n\r\n\"Lifeless\" can mean different things to different people. To me,
    the sparkle in a typeface comes from the thick/thin stroke ratio. Baur Bodoni
    has a lot of sparkle. Bodoni Book, less so. But Baur Bodoni has too much sparkle,
    and the fine lines are too fine, to be successful for setting extended text.\r\n\r\nAn
    interesting font is Matthew Carter's Galliard. The Carter & Cone version is PostScript,
    made when the printing chain with PostScript fonts was still repro/negative/plate.
    This font had just the right sparkle, or life. When output changed to direct-to-plate,
    the fine lines were too fine. A lot of the Gallaird users got down on printers,
    or assumed \"bad digitization.\" But Galliard was already digitized, the technical
    change that took some of it's life came farther down the production stream.\r\n\r\nFairfield
    55 strikes me as having a similar problem, at least as far as its \"lifeless\"
    goes. We have a customer who likes it; I was trying to discourage her as I figured
    it would take me about 100 hours to rework the contrast to get it to print right
    DTP. And no guarantees, I could easily hash it up. Moreover, given licensing,
    the font could only be used in our shop for books we set. When I asked the designer
    what she liked about Fairfield, she also mentioned liking Electra (in metal).
    \ With that clue, I recommended Whitman. We'll see how she likes it.\r\n\r\nBTW
    Kent, that press has had to cut back & put people on reduced work, so quite rightly
    they aren't sending any more work out if they can set it in house. If she likes
    Whitman, how about selling me a gift certificate so they can have the font properly
    licensed, & I'll pay the bill?"
  created: '2009-02-09 02:21:35'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "I don\u2019t believe I\u2019ve ever heard this point made about direct-to-plate.
    Here is a Fairfield sample from a contemporary pulp paperback. I don\u2019t know
    which weight was used, but it looks to be set right at 8 pt. To me the weight
    looked pretty good, but that may be because I had just finished a book set in
    Bembo.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FF_6630.jpg]"
  created: '2009-02-09 12:43:11'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Charles, I didn't take time to print out and scan back in the digital sample
    above. It's rasterized from PDF, so purely virtual reproduction. I would expect
    maybe a slight softening and gain in weight (if not reduction in contrast) from
    D2P and offset.\r\n\r\n<cite> > On this whole notion of ink gain: If we are to
    believe what Smeijers said in Counterpunch, the people who made metal punches
    took that into account. </cite>\r\n\r\nIn my opinion, it's not so much that they
    \"took that into account.\" The ink is what they were looking at. What I mean
    is, I don't think they were trying to imagine what it would look like (i.e., accounting
    for); they were looking at what it looked like. I believe even a smoke proof adds
    a bit, as the card was slightly damped in order to take a decent proof impression.
    Not arguing with you, just a different semantic take. Yes, I come to the same
    conclusion as you.\r\n\r\nRe: Whitman license. Sounds reasonable. I'm sure something
    can be worked out. If it comes to pass, e-mail Harry Parker and copy me on it.\r\n\r\n--
    K."
  created: '2009-02-09 14:35:24'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Mark -- 8 point? Really? That's pretty small by today's standards. The ~12-pt
    letterforms look a little narrow to me at 8 pt. But overall color seems passable.\r\n\r\nJust
    for kicks, here's an excerpt from the original Fairfield specimen, 9/12 pt and
    8/11. Tried to scale so that the 8pt sample is approximately the same as yours.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FairfieldSpec_9-8pt_4300.jpg]"
  created: '2009-02-09 15:28:22'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "It isn\u2019t a really big trim size, but then I\u2019m just laying a Schaedler
    over the top,\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/8pt_5730.jpg]\r\n\r\nso
    it might be bigger."
  created: '2009-02-09 15:41:40'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: Is that Schaedler gauge based on cap height? Do you know what the basis for
    assumption is? 70%? I think that's the typical assumption. Digital Fairfield cap
    height is 678, so that would make your guess about right.
  created: '2009-02-09 15:52:55'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Actually, I believe I\u2019m not using the scale correctly and had assumed
    it was a rework of the more common \u201CE\u201D scale.I\u2019ll get a more precise
    answer, but there are just under 60 characters per line at a 22 pica measure.
    Probably 9 pt is a better guess."
  created: '2009-02-09 16:12:10'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: 'The Emerson samples are quite telling. The digital version is obviously a
    bit lighter, but I think it comes close enough in certain respects. I hesitate
    to increase the print density for fear of distorting the forms, though. '
  created: '2009-02-09 16:42:46'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > assumed it was a rework of the more common \u201CE\u201D scale.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat
    I assumed too, Mark. Good assumption. Could it be em square? Can you just measure
    that little square and see?\r\n\r\nChristian, there's a good deal more \"magic\"
    going on in letterpress than just increased print density. Getting the same feeling
    in digital -- without being anachronistic and literal warts-and-all -- is perhaps
    something of a holy grail for some, and certainly no mean feat.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-09 17:36:53'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Color me chastised. If I bend it back on itself it matches the rule weight
    scale.
  created: '2009-02-09 17:50:44'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: How common were double-quote sorts in metal type?
  created: '2009-02-09 19:45:11'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "For the fun of it, here  is Fairfield medium, (just a bit reworked, but not
    reweighted or contrast changed), set 9/12. This is a gif image of the InDesign
    file, so of course no printing is involved. But if it occurred in a piece with
    halftones, the printer would need to hold the dotgain to as little as possible,
    and the contrast would stay much different than what Kent showed above. I imagine
    it would stay pretty much as is even if there weren't halftones . . .\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Fair-1
    copy_5420.gif]"
  created: '2009-02-09 22:10:17'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: Good question, Craig. A quick look through the Big Red Linotype specimen and
    the 1923 ATF catalog reveals mostly just singles in the alphabet showings. And
    the scheme for a Monotype C-arrangement matrix seems to have positions only for
    singles.
  created: '2009-02-10 00:41:48'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Interesting; I wonder if the double-quote only became conceived as a glyph
    unto itself with the advent of monospaced printing (e.g. typewriters).
  created: '2009-02-10 02:32:10'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "My recollection from Monotype keyboard and hand work days is that you needed
    to twice tap a single quote when you wanted double open or close quotes. This
    makes sense given the limited number of positions for 5-unit characters in a Monotype
    matrix case. The number of slots in a Linotype magazine would have imposed the
    same necessity, to make room for more mats. (At least I think the quote is 5 units:
    no material here to check that.)\r\n\r\nMaybe that's why the Monotype shop I worked
    in adopted the 'English' style of using single quotes rather than the \"American\"
    style of doubles. Perhaps there was an efficiency expert lurking somewhere who
    saw a way to reduce the number of keystrokes and thus improve our efficiency.
    ;-)\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2009-02-10 14:43:22'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Yes, Monotype single quote is 5 units (in C arrangement, at least).\r\n\r\nAnd
    looking now at several Linotype keyboard diagrams, I can confirm that there were
    only keys for singles there as well."
  created: '2009-02-10 14:59:23'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "With the 8-bit PostScript fonts, we did the same thing when using TeX. Since
    we ran TeX out of a DOS box, we could use any encoding vector we wanted. By using
    two single quotes (kerned) for double quotes, two character positions were saved,
    and sometimes you needed them.\r\n\r\nWhile not an issue with metal, the only
    compromise was that space after a letter to a quote was the same whether it was
    an apostrophe or a close double quote. I suppose you could argue the merits of
    separate characters, but it didn't seem to affect the quality of the work, and
    we kept with it until 2007, when we shifted to InDesign & 16-bit fonts. A 65,000+
    character typecase sure changes things."
  created: '2009-02-10 16:18:13'
- author:
    name: tungsteno
    picture: 128122
  body: "I have always loved that U in metal Fairfield, imho the digital one seems
    not really an improvement. Ugly.\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-10 21:47:35'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "In digital we only get \"Light\" and \"Medium \" variants of Fairfield. Under
    normal printing conditions the light falls apart and the medium tries to beat
    you over the head with a club. Simply horrible. I tried to use some thick, creamy
    paper, but to no avail.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, after playing with digital Electra
    a bit more I've noticed that it puts up quite a fight. Digital's battle against
    metal in this case is still a losing one, but perhaps with creamier, slightly
    darker paper it'll look half decent. It would seem this version needs only a bit
    of tweaking here and there to make it work. Perhaps someone, someday, will take
    up the challenge. We don't need a \"revival\" of Electra. We need someone to just
    fix what we've already got. After all, Dante survived. I'm not sure why or how,
    but it did.\r\n\r\nI don't know what to make of Kent's Emerson samples. The digital
    version looks like a completely different beast. It lacks presence. Then again,
    I can't tell for sure unless I see it on a page.  \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-11 14:17:17'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "My assessment of digital Electra is that it needs more than just a \"bit
    of tweaking here and there.\"\r\n\r\nWe went through a lengthy and roundabout
    discussion of Electra on Typophile many years ago, but I think that thread is
    fragmented and buried in the archives. \r\n\r\nFrom my explorations into the matter,
    I believe the digital Electra suffers from more than just high contrast. The proportions
    in the existing digital were inherited from a phototype version which was adapted
    for an 18-unit constraint early in the evolution of Linotype's phototypesetters.
    The differences are subtle, but enough to produce a different rhythm, in addition
    to weight/contrast issues. \r\n\r\nAlso, I suspect that some of the curves have
    lost something in translation, compared to the original. I know this for a fact
    in the case of Caledonia, as I've spent some time analyzing the original drawings.
    I would expect similar divergence in Electra.\r\n\r\nI agree, what's needed is
    not so much a \"revival\" as a careful \"restoration.\"\r\n\r\n-- Kent.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-11 14:41:31'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "Just a correction to my Fairfield comment: we do get more variety than just
    the light and medium, but the others aren't much better, although the bold weights
    are as good as any bold weights can be. \r\n\r\nhttp://www.linotype.com/363/electra-family.html#\r\n\r\n\"Electra
    had received a Certificate for Typographic Excellence in Type Design in 1998 from
    the Type Directors Club ( TDC ) of New York.\"\r\n\r\nI assume this wasn't for
    the digital version."
  created: '2009-02-11 15:13:38'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Well, it was; and quite frankly the award baffles me. The TDC on-line competition
    archives don't go back far enough to know who was on that jury.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-11 15:56:16'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "So I\u2019ll toss this on top of the pile.\r\n\r\n<cite>\r\nYou are partly
    right as to the intended use of the hairline open boxes marked with \"pt\" sizes
    on our 18\" Schaedler Precision Rule.  Most users would place the empty boxes
    over a piece of printed text to identify the pt (point) size of the typeface being
    used.  It is much easier to identify the size of letters inside an enclosed box
    rather than using the tiny calibration marks on the points/picas calibration scales.
    \ \r\n<cite>\r\n       BUT, and this is a big \"but,\" measuring should be done
    from the highest ascender of a typeface to the lowest descender of the lower case
    letters -- not the capital letters as with most E-scales.  I usually look for
    words in the text-to-be-measured which have an ascending letter (like an \"l\"
    or \"h\") right next to a descending letter (like a \"p\", \"g\" or \"y\") so
    I can view both letters at the same time in my viewing boxes.\r\n<cite>\r\n       Do
    not measure capital letters because they vary in size depending on the style of
    the typeface.  Keep in mind, point sizes are always measured from the highest
    ascender to the lowest descender.\r\n<cite>\r\n       Now, I hate to complicate
    your life, but many typographers insert 1 or 2 or more points of empty space between
    lines to increase legibility (and to prevent lowest descenders of the line above
    from actually touching highest ascenders from the line below).  This space is
    called \"leading\" because years ago in the days of metal typefaces, strips of
    lead were inserted between lines of metal type.\r\n<cite>\r\n       So, when measuring
    point sizes of text typefaces, it's usually a good idea to measure from baseline
    to baseline (rather than from highest ascender to lowest descender).  This will
    catch any leading between lines.  Typographers generally use two numbers to indicate
    size of face plus leading.  For example, the term \"10/12\" means a point size
    of ten plus a 2 pt space for leading totaling 12 total points.  \r\n<cite>\r\n
    \      Hey, if it were easy, everybody would be a typographer and we'd all be
    out of a job.  Thanks again for your inquiry.\r\n\r\n<cite>      ........................................................
    John Schaedler\r\n<cite/>"
  created: '2009-02-13 22:25:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The older faces, for which there are no extant working drawings, have of
    necessity been digitized with reference to printed specimens. Ironically, better-documented
    designs such as Electra and Fairfield have suffered through not being digitized
    in this manner.\r\n\r\nWhich are the 20th century faces that have been digitized
    from printed specimens, with the attempt to create, in high-res offset output,
    a facsimile of letterpress typography?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-14 00:38:10'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "Nick, that is an excellent question. \r\n\r\nMy first answer would be the
    Fell Revival faces (Marini), but I don't think those are 20th century.  ;)"
  created: '2009-02-14 02:08:57'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Probably Storm\u2019s Walbaum."
  created: '2009-02-14 03:01:26'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Well, it was; and quite frankly the award baffles me.\"\r\nLinotype's revivals
    were not intended to replace the metal fonts used in letterpress and they were
    done too early to be targeted at anything narrower then \"a 12 pt master for text
    and display\" expanded in styles and glyphs. Today, it sounds like a simple job
    for size masters and grades, but in the mean time, some people have made some
    use of these families  quite nicely. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-17 16:01:36'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "These \"revivals\" were not intended to replace metal, yet they are called
    \"Electra\" and \"Fairfield\", and Linotype's site claims the following:\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------\r\nElectra\xAE
    Bold belongs to the Electra\xAE Font Family which is part of the Linotype Originals.\r\nElectra
    is an original face designed for Linotype in 1935 by William. A. Dwiggins, the
    eminent American artist and illustrator who also created the Caledonia series.
    The type, which falls into the 'modern' family of type styles, is not based upon
    any traditional model and is not an attempt to revive or reconstruct any historic
    type. Because it avoids the extreme contrast of thick and thin elements that mark
    most modern faces, Electra provides a new 'texture' in book pages. Although in
    x-height it is amost large as Times Roman, the narrow set of Electra makes it
    very economical in composition. The italic is really a sloped roman, of almost
    the same weight as the roman; it is so comfortable to read that it can be used
    for whole texts, and is particularly suitable for poetry. \r\nIn 1988 Linotype
    has extended the Electra to a complete type family with four different weights,
    it was made with true Italics and as a specialty was made available in a lighter
    end more elegant Display version.\r\nThe Caravan fonts offer a broad variety of
    fitting ornaments and border elements which had been designed by Dwiggins.\r\nElectra
    had received a Certificate for Typographic Excellence in Type Design in 1998 from
    the Type Directors Club ( TDC ) of New York.\r\n ----------------------------------------\r\n\r\nSo
    what are these \"Linotype Originals\" intended to be? They certainly don't look
    like \"originals\", yet these \"revivals\" don't claim to be anything but originals.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not questioning Linotype's failure to mention that these fonts have little to
    do with what was intended with the metal forms (other than in name), which is
    questionable enough. I'm simply wondering why this version of Electra deserved
    an award when the type does nothing more than ape Electra, and poorly at that.
    \r\n\r\nI suspect the judges dropped the ball on this one and it's only become
    clear in retrospect."
  created: '2009-02-17 16:26:30'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"These \u201Crevivals\u201D were not intended to replace metal, yet they
    are called \u201CElectra\u201D and \u201CFairfield\u201D\r\n</em>Pink Panther
    movies are sometimes cartooooons. or star Steve Martin instead! OS IX did not
    look at all like OS X, yet they are both called Macintosh, and Ford changed the
    damn Mustang again... let's sue 'em! sue 'em all.</em>\r\n\r\n\"So what are these
    \u201CLinotype Originals\u201D intended to be?\"\r\nI think they are intended
    to be a faithful representation of the drawings updated for ununitized composition
    in modern ('88) desktop computer layouts and styles, sharing the same names as
    their metal, film and pre-postcript digital predecessors. They are quite separate
    in delivery format... I mean, if you get the metal version in the mail, you don't
    confuse it with the digital version you download, even before you use 'em and
    find out they produce different images. That's a plus, right? \r\n\r\nAnd if you
    do have to make plates from the digital version you should be able to simply add
    a tiny little value to the stroke variable of all the outlines. And if you mean
    the \"Originals\" tag, I think Adobe started that and their licensees followed
    to distinguish their home made products from those, (in '88), made by others and
    distributed via licenses, trades and acquisitions. \r\n\r\n\"I suspect the judges
    dropped the ball on this one and it\u2019s only become clear in retrospect.\"\r\nThe
    'in retrospect' is where we may differ. But sue the judges, the jury and the bailiff
    too!\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-17 20:23:26'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "an aside: I was just now rooting through MyFonts and was surprised to see
    that Monotype Imaging is still selling the old Compugraphic face \"Elante,\" the
    CG version of Electra.\r\n\r\nthen I also see that Linotype sells Elante and attributes
    it to Dwiggins. But on the page for Electra they do not attribute it to Dwiggins.
    \r\n\r\nCurious. I'm surprised to see those old CG faces still sold after Mono
    & Lino hooked up.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2009-02-24 23:16:22'
date: '2009-02-06 22:57:03'
title: A shame that digitized Electra and Fairfield look so lifeless

---
