---
author:
  name: Si_Daniels
  picture: 110446
body: "Via the ilovetypography blog. \r\n\r\nPair of graphic designers ask type designers
  to give away fonts... \r\n\r\nhttp://www.theleagueofmoveabletype.com/\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Not another one :<(\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-02-08 18:59:01'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Get these guys to post their fonts over here for critique!
  created: '2009-02-08 19:17:26'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "There are a lot of people out there who seem to be very interested in free
    fonts. Free in either sense of the word. Funnily enough, most of these people
    are font users and/or people active in the free software movement in some way
    or another. But how many of these new initiatives are founded by type designers?\r\n\r\nI
    think that it is a case of priorities. I am a type designer, and I care about
    *one thing* more than anything else. And that is letters, and drawing them. I
    don't really care about licensing debates. I find all the manifestos and the rhetoric
    rather dull.\r\n\r\nEvery week now, it seems, more people start asking for \"free\"
    font projects. But what would be even cooler would be for some of these people,
    or really all of these people, to start just drawing type. Do it yourself. Or
    maybe with each other. Maybe you will create great results. Maybe you won't. But
    I am not interested in the rhetoric. The more important battles to be fought are
    how to make letters look good, and how to make typography better. These have very
    little to do with what software you use or what restrictions you do or do not
    place on your work. Too much energy in the wrong direction, as far as I am concerned."
  created: '2009-02-08 20:05:27'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: Spot on Dan!
  created: '2009-02-08 20:45:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am going to start an organization called Free Rent. Giving rent away for
    free will most likely only booster sales, and it's a good deed. Everybody who
    owns rental property or mortgages property should join and give away a bunch of
    property. Ofcourse I don't own any so I can't contribute but I will be doing my
    part by taking advantage of rent-free living.\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-02-08 20:49:04'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Funny that they use the word \"booster\" instead of \"boost\". \"Booster\"
    is a noun. Also, \"boost\" and \"booster\" have multiple meanings, one of which
    is related to stealing. Not the best choice of words if they want to enlist type
    designers.\r\n\r\nOr maybe they're confusing \"booster\" with \"bolster\"?"
  created: '2009-02-08 21:16:23'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Is there a professional association for designers who want to throw up every
    time some self-righteous twat starts telling the rest of us that we have a responsibility
    to advance their agenda and should expect little or no compensation?
  created: '2009-02-08 22:12:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The good news is that increasingly people are realizing\r\nthat free fonts
    tend to suck, hard. They're waiting for us\r\nto donate our hard-earned skills.
    Let's keep them waiting.  :-)\r\n\r\nThere is however one good reason to release\r\nfree
    fonts: the \"freemium\" marketing model.\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Freemium\r\nFor
    example I could picture giving away the\r\nroman weight and charging for everything\r\nelse,
    especially smallcaps, opticals, etc.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-08 22:44:56'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: Fontshop does that every once in a while.
  created: '2009-02-08 23:02:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Proposed logo for the Free-In-Your-Dreams Typeface Design Federation:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/free_5328.gif]\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-08 23:09:13'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Hahaha, well done, hrant!
  created: '2009-02-08 23:14:48'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: ":-D  \r\nSpot on."
  created: '2009-02-08 23:16:35'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Is anyone else interested in producing a free font manifesto from a type
    designer\u2019s perspective? I\u2019m thinking of a hybrid of First Things First,
    Free Font Manifesto, and totalitarianism. Something like this:\r\n\r\nPart I\r\nMost
    designers design a stuff nobody needs, packaging for stuff nobody needs, and advertising
    for stuff nobody needs. You\u2019re all a bunch of parasites. So you\u2019re far
    less entitled to your work then we are\u2014after all, the designers who actually
    contribute to civilization (and pay for type without whinging) need typefaces
    more than they need advertisements for DVDs packaged in three-layers of non-recyclable
    materials.\r\n\r\nPart II\r\nBut you need fonts for Facebook apps that market
    stuff nobody needs and can\u2019t make the client pay because they promised substantial
    savings over a print campaign by a big agency. Nobody wants a bunch of unemployed
    designers running around high on spray-glue fumes vandalizing public transit with
    OBEY GIANT stickers (aren\u2019t you the rebel!), so to keep you in line you\u2019ll
    get free fonts.\r\n\r\nPart III\r\nFont designers can\u2019t give designers the
    fonts they need to stay off the streets unless we have food and shelter. So to
    subsidize our work we need to following:\r\n\u2022Free housing: And good free
    housing in neighborhoods with coffee shops and bookstores, you can\u2019t just
    stick us in Stuy-town or Kansas.\r\n\u2022Free education: That means our student
    loans get paid off and we get free tuition/room and board at Reading or The KABK.\r\n\u2022Free
    groceries: We can\u2019t think clearly on empty-stomachs so twice-weekly deliveries
    of grass-fed-bison, free-range-chicken, and wild pork must be arranged.\r\n\u2022Etc.,
    etc.\r\n\r\nPart IV\r\nBecause everyone clearly has a social responsibility to
    make this work, all designers will be taxed at five-percent of gross revenues
    to provide for the font designers. In exchange, you get free fonts. Anyone who
    fails to cough up the five-percent will be imprisoned for an arbitrary period
    of time. Repeat offenders will be shot."
  created: '2009-02-08 23:42:20'
- author:
    name: lailsonbm
  body: "I'm confused. If we can have superb free software, why can't we have high
    quality free type? In what means developers differs from designers?\r\nNote that
    this is not a rhetoric question. I'm really curious to compare both worlds.\r\n\r\nPS:
    I'm software developer, not graphic/type designer, just an enthusiast...\r\n\r\nLAILSON
    BANDEIRA"
  created: '2009-02-08 23:59:50'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "i think i like where you are going with this james...\r\n\r\n:-)"
  created: '2009-02-09 00:00:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Why can't we have \"real good free\" rent?\r\n\r\n  \r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-02-09 00:02:52'
- author:
    name: merkri
  body: "Lailson, I think it's just a cultural difference. There is good free type
    out there, although not as much as there could be. \r\n\r\nAlso, keep in mind
    that the advantages and disadvantages of free software aren't without debate either."
  created: '2009-02-09 00:13:55'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: 'In principle, I''m sympathetic to all sides of this subject, but one fact
    stands out to me: <strong>There are lots of free fonts already. Lots.</strong>
    Some are bad, and some are really good. Every time somebody sits there with the
    dozens of fonts that came with their computer, more that came with their design
    software, and thousands available on the internet, and starts plaintively puling
    about the fact that some fonts <em>aren''t</em> free and oh why can''t type makers
    be <em>nice</em> and give away those, I think somebody''s got that sense of entitlement
    that comes of having been given too much.'
  created: '2009-02-09 00:30:46'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>If we can have superb free software, why can\u2019t we have high quality
    free type?</cite>\r\n\r\nAs I already pointed out in a previous thread, the reason
    we have good free software if because businesses and governments have spent a
    hell of a lot of money developing good free software. The reason Firefox is free
    isn\u2019t because a thousand nerds are hacking away in Mom\u2019s basement; it\u2019s
    because Google pays the Mozilla foundation for Google searches run through the
    Firefox search tool.\r\n\r\nWe can have good free fonts if someone is willing
    to pay the font designers. That\u2019s how some of the high-quality open-source
    fonts on the market came to be. But when sanctimonious academics, graphic designers,
    and open-source proponents can\u2019t bring anything to the table but idealistic
    manifestos about\u2014cue weepy violin solo\u2014a \u201Cgift to humanity\u201D
    or \u201Cmaking a contribution to the society\u201D they\u2019re insulting type
    designers without proposing a realistic solution to the problem that they insist
    exists."
  created: '2009-02-09 02:03:29'
- author:
    name: Yehan
    picture: 112677
  body: "This reminds me of the old maxim about cheap, good and fast design. You can
    only have 2. If you want it cheap and fast, it won't be good. If you want it fast
    and good, it won't be cheap. And if you want it good and cheap, it won't be fast.\r\n\r\nThere
    are some real nice free fonts out there, but seriously, everyone needs to live.
    I agree..pple who ask these things should start making their own...I'm starting
    to.\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-09 04:03:16'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "i like getting free stuff as much as the next guy, but i also support commercial
    type,a and have bought many typefaces because the offer me what i want and are
    just generally better.\r\n\r\nanother bonus is that i can contact the foundry/type
    designer and request changes/additions and so far the people i have spoken to
    have been very helpful and tried to accommodate me.\r\n\r\nof course there are
    exceptions, but not many."
  created: '2009-02-09 04:56:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "And tellingly, virtually everybody who starts making his\r\nown immediately
    stops asking others to give theirs away!\r\nFrom a distance type design can look
    like a menial task that\r\nrequires motivation and not much else, but soon enough\r\nyou
    realize that no amount of talent, real or imagined, can\r\nmake up for long stretches
    of observation, thought and\r\npractice that are required to end up with something
    other\r\npeople would pay money for. Most people who start dabbling\r\nin type
    design end up thinking we're a bunch of loonies to\r\neven bother. But even loonies
    have to pay bills.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-09 05:04:27'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Most people who start dabbling in type design end up thinking we\u2019re
    a bunch of loonies to even bother.</cite>\r\n\r\ns/thinking/discovering ;)"
  created: '2009-02-09 05:16:16'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "it looks like one of the founders of this place did make the font that's
    there:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.theleagueofmoveabletype.com/fonts/1-junction\r\n\r\nJunction
    made by Caroline Hadilaksono\r\n\r\n<cite>Inspired by my favorite humanist sans
    serif typefaces, such as Meta, Myriad, and Scala, Junction is where the best qualities
    of serif and sans serif typefaces come together. It has the hand drawn and human
    qualities of a serif, and still retains the clarity and efficiencies of a sans
    serif typeface. It combines the best of both worlds.</cite>\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-09 05:54:43'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: I personally think it always comes down to the same problem -- the initiators
    of such movements purposely ignore the fact there are more than enough free fonts
    out there already. What frustrates them is that <em>their</em> favourite fonts
    aren't. ;^)
  created: '2009-02-09 08:26:50'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "totally agree yves.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-09 08:32:10'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "I haven't been around for a while - but I see you have been having a lot
    of fun in my absence. First, happy new year y'all... hope it is turning out well
    for you.\r\n\r\nSecond, Dan - all I can say is +1\r\nChris, where do we sign up
    for free property -- at our nearest Welfare office?\r\n\r\nand Hrant - haven't
    seen you in more than a year. Welcome back, we missed ya! Meanwhile, one comment
    on your FREE logo -- I think the letter \"F\" should be the different color one
    - and maybe a little U stuck in near it... \r\n\r\nOkay, back to work on Little
    Mary Sunshine - and finding out if they paid the royalties to use the logo....\r\n\r\nBye
    *waving over* -- missed ya!"
  created: '2009-02-09 13:15:41'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: '@Dan: In my opinion, "how to make letters look good, and how to make typography
    better" is: enable anyone to learn how to do these things, and to do them for
    a living. Proprietary software and proprietary fonts can''t do this; they depend
    on secrecy. I''ve invested a lot of time and money in building the infrastructure
    for this to happen; plenty of others have too. It hasn''t happened yet, but it
    is happening, slowly. That''s fine; we are not in a hurry.'
  created: '2009-02-09 14:12:27'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "You know what would be great? If this turned into like a hand picked dafonts
    or something. Similar to what Poolga did for iphone wallpapers or the selected
    version of threadless. \r\n"
  created: '2009-02-09 14:26:57'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> \u201Chow to make letters look good, and how to make typography better\u201D
    is: enable anyone to learn how to do these things, and to do them for a living.
    \r\n\r\nSo your agenda is to enable anyone to do good graphic design, and make
    money doing so. But you're okay sacrificing the jobs of type designers and application
    makers? How does that makes sense?\r\n\r\n>proprietary fonts can\u2019t do this;
    they depend on secrecy. \r\n\r\nHow do they do this? Any font can be opened up
    in FontLab and the \"secrets\" are revealed. OpenType spec is public and is also
    a public ISO standard.\r\n\r\n<STRONG>Moderator!</STRONG> Can you turn off Simon's
    EM tag. Thanks! Si"
  created: '2009-02-09 14:46:47'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Dave, proprietary software and fonts are not keeping you or me from learning
    about typeface design or letters, and they never have. I don't see how they are
    keeping anyone else in the dark, either. How did we start learning at Reading?
    By learning how to look at letters. In books. On any printed things. And by drawing
    them with pencils. Anyone can do this. There is no software involved. In fact,
    I'll wager that looking at letters in print, REALLY looking at letters, teaches
    way more about typeface design than looking under the hood of a font file ever
    will. \r\n\r\nIf you want to make a difference, why not start by drawing more
    letters. You're working on a typeface now, right? Make it good, and talk about
    your process with other people. That will teach more people more things than whatever
    software you care to use in the process."
  created: '2009-02-09 16:25:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Junction made by Caroline Hadilaksono\r\n\r\nNow try selling that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-09 16:36:48'
- author:
    name: chadilaksono
    picture: 116827
  body: "I'm Caroline Hadilaksono, one of the founders of The League of Moveable Type,
    the designer of Junction. I'm glad somebody realize that we are giving away a
    typeface that we designed ourselves on our site. \r\n\r\nI've read that many here
    dislike the concept of open-source fonts because to you it's a movement started
    by a bunch of self-righteous people demanding type designers to give away their
    hard-earned skills and hand-crafted fonts for free; that there are a lot of people
    out there who do not appreciate the labor and skills that it takes to design a
    good typeface; and that there are a lot of people out there who want to take advantage
    and jump on the whole open-source bandwagon to advance their own agenda and well,
    get stuff for free.\r\n\r\nI can't speak for other advocates of the open-source
    type movement, but as co-founder of The League, I can tell you that this is not
    at all our intentions. As a designer, I understand what it's like to feel unappreciated,
    and to have people look at what you do and think that it's a sort of luxury that
    they're not willing to pay money for. \r\n\r\nSomebody earlier wrote \"From a
    distance type design can look like a menial task that requires motivation and
    not much else... Most people who start dabbling in type design end up thinking
    we\u2019re a bunch of loonies to even bother.\" With all due respect, but you
    couldn't be more wrong. I don't think type designers are a bunch of loonies, to
    the contrary, I completely respect and admire what they do. Having the experience
    of designing a typeface, I can understand the challenges and hard work that goes
    into it. It requires a lot of time, patience, an insane attention to detail and
    a great awareness to subtleties, I have never considered it as a menial task.\r\n\r\nWe're
    not asking type designers to give up their means of living and it is not our intentions
    to devalue typography or type designers in any way. So what are we saying? Are
    we asking type designers to donate their fonts for free? Well, if you look at
    the bottom line, then yes, essentially that is what we are asking. But to me,
    the issue runs a little deeper than that. \r\n\r\nWhat we're advocating is a change
    in the way people look at business. What would happen if people run their business
    the way they treat their family and friends? Maybe sometimes, it's not about the
    money. And maybe once in a while we do do a good deed. \r\n\r\nIt's funny, we've
    been talking a lot about fonts and typography, but in a way, it's almost not about
    the fonts or typography or design. It's about people helping people. \r\n\r\nWhat
    kind of statement does it make for someone to give away something as valuable
    as a beautifully crafted typeface to not only help raise the design standards
    of the web (and print), but also create a place where people can share their creations,
    knowledge, and expertise with their peers and the world. Does that make me a self-righteous
    twat? Maybe. Does that make me naive? Sure. But this is the kind of world I want
    to live in, and I want to do what I can to help make it that way, this is why
    we started The League of Moveable Type. \r\n"
  created: '2009-02-09 17:10:50'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Caroline, thanks for joining the fray and articulating your side of the issue.
    \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-09 17:29:15'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> Does that make me naive?\r\n\r\nYes, I think it does. As a type-designer
    you've chosen to give away a font you've created, and that's fine - hundreds of
    type-designers (and not just beginners and amateurs) have decided to do that in
    the past. \r\n\r\nHowever, you\u2019re calling on other type designers to do the
    same. This is where things start to go down-hill. My experience has been that
    type designers don\u2019t like being preached to. A good cases study might be
    Ellen Lupton\u2019s call at ATypI Lisbon. Of those who have given things away
    a good number of those have lived to regret doing so. Others are generally opposed
    to it. Whereas others see giving stuff away as a great marketing tool.  \r\n\r\nHitching
    your wagon to @font-face was also a bad move. Most type foundries oppose it, and
    many type designers are really scared of it, and don\u2019t want to have anything
    to do with it. \r\n\r\nAnother mistake is the Open Source connection. Although
    many type designers give away fonts for free, they stop short of allowing others
    to commercially exploit their work, or produce derivatives. The OS requirement
    doesn\u2019t seem necessary for @font-face. \r\n\r\nFinal nail in the coffin in
    my opinion is to tie Open Source and @Font-Face together. The possibility that
    @Font-Face related mechanisms might offer minimal font protection and a business
    model for font producers is threatened by the Open Source folks who see font protection
    as \u201Cevil DRM\u201D and believe all fonts should be free. Check out the W3C
    Style mailing list archive for examples. \r\n\r\nI think talking to other practicing
    type designers and some additional research may have turned up these problems
    prior to launching your site.\r\n\r\nJust my two cents - hope this criticism is
    taken as constructive. \r\n"
  created: '2009-02-09 18:03:35'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>What would happen if people run their business the way they treat their
    family and friends?</cite>\r\n\r\nI\u2019ve read enough Ann Landers to know that
    people who make a habit of giving goods and services away to family and friends
    usually get screwed. Running a business that way is suicidal. \r\n\r\n<cite>Maybe
    sometimes, it\u2019s not about the money. And maybe once in a while we do do a
    good deed.</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd therein lies the pernicious part of your argument:
    the notions that wanting compensation for one\u2019s labors is just about the
    money and that creating a society where creative output is given away is a good
    deed. If I sell a well-designed and properly functioning typeface the recipient
    is receiving something of equal value to the money he pays me. Why is that any
    less good than simply throw my work to the winds and feeding the notion that people
    have some entitlement to the means of digital production? \r\n\r\nMoney is not
    some unholy sigil of a cult of greed, it\u2019s a simple token that represent
    the work the buyer is exchanging for my fonts. Swapping these goods and services
    is what makes civilizations work\u2014a society that operates otherwise literally
    begins to meet the definition of primitive."
  created: '2009-02-09 18:28:54'
- author:
    name: begsini
    picture: 110929
  body: "Hmmm, how do you all feel about giving away fonts? Holy fright, there's a
    lot of indignation here. I, too, completely respect the effort, talent, experience,
    etc. that goes into type design, as well as the need to make a livelihood. Fine,
    don't participate. \r\n\r\nHowever, as many of you noted, there are myriad free
    fonts out there. Perhaps this could be - as Haley suggested - a more curated collection,
    so that users are less likely to wade through mounds of crap and more likely to
    find quality. \r\n\r\nMaybe they can sell ads on the site, and compensate participating
    type designers in spite of giving the fonts away. Maybe people would donate freely,
    as I did when I got free weights of Museo. Museo, what a fantastic typeface, by
    the way. Shame on you, Jos, for giving it away!\r\n\r\nGranted, it's a lot of
    maybes, but again, no one is obliging anyone to participate. \r\n\r\njarrod\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-09 18:29:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Caroline, I for one have no intention of becoming a ragged-trousered philanthropist.\r\n\r\nYour
    argument is bullshit, as defined by Harry G. Frankfurt: pleasantry, neither true
    nor false.\r\nNo doubt the world would be a better place if everybody was nice
    and shared more; unfortunately, some animals are more equal than others.\r\n\r\nLook
    in the mirror and redistribute your own source of livelihood, rather than someone
    else's.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nAs several have commented, the culture of \"free font
    entitlement\" has been largely created by Adobe, Apple, and Microsoft, corporations
    which do not rely on font sales for their income, and bundle free fonts to help
    sell their big money-makers. It's unrealistic for users to also expect foundries
    which rely solely on font sales to give away the store--although as Hrant has
    noted and Jos demonstrated, freemiums can be an effective marketing technique.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nI
    also don't think it's a good idea to muddle business and philanthropy. As Thomas
    Watson once said, \"I'm all for charity, but first business must make a profit.\"
    (Or words to that effect.) There are better causes I can contribute to than giving
    fonts to people who already have plenty of them.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-09 18:37:40'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Shame on you, Jos, for giving it away!\r\n\r\nI think the consensus on this
    thread is that no one is opposed to a type designer or foundry offering \"freemiums.\"
    \r\n\r\n>Granted, it\u2019s a lot of maybes, but again, no one is obliging anyone
    to participate. \r\n\r\nObviously no one is having a gun held to their heads here,
    but the site has a distinct air of \"free font entitlement\" which I think explains
    the negative reaction.  \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-09 18:41:59'
- author:
    name: prokoudine
  body: "@Dan\r\n\r\nComing with free/libre software background I curiously find myself
    sharing most of your concerns.\r\n\r\n@James\r\n\r\nNot every good free/libre
    software project was sponsored, and not for every project sponsoring was what
    actually made the difference.\r\n\r\n@cerulean \r\n\r\nYou are missing one very
    important thing here. Most free-as-in-beer fonts are coming with a license that
    doesn't allow modifications. So if I really need some font and it's there and
    free to use, but doesn't have the unicode block coverage of interest, I'm effectively
    off to rethink the whole design to be able using some other typeface.\r\n\r\nThe
    fact is that people are usually very sensitive about their creations and hardly
    can stand modifications to them without their supervision (and not everyone has
    time for that supervision in the land of typefaces). Even if it's not about money,
    a step over that sensitivity is a huge step which not everybody is ready or willing
    to make. So the point of the project, as I understand it, is to make that happen
    on a more regular basis :)\r\n\r\nP.S. Let's not equal software to fonts. Having
    spoken to a Letterhead's type designer I know that some of you guys and gals think
    that using pirated software is not so bad (no, he wasn't such a user), while using
    pirated typeface is a worst kind of crime and any offender should be sentenced
    to death :)\r\n\r\nP.P.S. I'd love to have something like Adobe Jenson with a
    free/libre license to ship with our Linux distro. Not that I have the whole money
    to cover such a project, but I would definitely participate financially."
  created: '2009-02-09 18:45:24'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Nick, I disagree with scapegoating font-bundling as a root cause of the problem.
    When people buy an operating system or an office suite, they know that they\u2019re
    buying systems and suites, and that the fonts are part of the price, as are text
    editors and music players. I see entitlement culture as the result of callow warping
    of logic: it\u2019s just a little file, you\u2019re being stingy not to just give
    a little file away!"
  created: '2009-02-09 18:46:10'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite>Perhaps this could be - as Haley suggested - a more curated collection,
    so that users are less likely to wade through mounds of crap and more likely to
    find quality.</cite>\r\n\r\nDone. See Typophile\u2019s [[FAQ_Free]]. Wanna improve/refine?
    Knock yourself out, it\u2019s a wiki.\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-09 18:59:53'
- author:
    name: prokoudine
  body: "@sii\r\n\r\nWhich makes the point of 1/2 of the license irrelevant :)"
  created: '2009-02-09 19:00:33'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">So if I really need some font and it\u2019s there and free to use, but doesn\u2019t
    have the unicode block coverage of interest, I\u2019m effectively off to rethink
    the whole design to be able using some other typeface.\r\n\r\nThis is typically
    solved with a short email to the designer.  \r\n\r\nRe. bundling. I can\u2019t
    disagree that bundling and the Web fonts have contributed to the culture of free
    font entitlement, although I don\u2019t think they\u2019re completely to blame.
    But in reality, if the font industry is truly built on selling the same fonts
    to the same people every few years, then Adobe, Microsoft and Apple are the undisputed
    masters of that game. The devils greatest trick\u2026 was making people think
    they get the fonts for free. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-09 19:00:57'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">>This is typically solved with a short email to the designer. \r\n\r\n>Which
    makes the point of 1/2 of the license irrelevant :)\r\n\r\nSorry, my edit put
    things out of order. It's better to withhold the right and make exceptions to
    people who demonstrate they know what they\u2019re doing, than provide the rights
    in the EULA and have a hundred grunge versions of your font floating around.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-09 19:03:39'
- author:
    name: Schrijver
    picture: 116831
  body: "Hello all,\r\n\r\nThis is my first time posting in a discussion on the web.
    Apparently I\u2019m not so good at it yet, because I read the comments and then
    started writing a comment myself but it became an essay.. And then of course I
    had to start rewriting it as other comments came in...\r\n\r\nSo I apologize for
    the length. Maybe I could reedit this and submit this as copy for a site related
    to these topics?\r\n\r\nI actually also wrote a manifesto last week, but I won\u2019t
    be going into that here. I would like to not frame this in terms of \u2018gift
    to humanity\u2019 and so on, but in terms of economics. Not because I don\u2019t
    think in terms as the former, but because I think making money and giving a gift
    to humanity are able to happily coincide. To keep in the humanist tradition here,
    Aldus Manutius had high hopes for saving Classical culture, and at the at same
    time wanted to make a buck with his printing office\u2014or at least he had to
    in order to be able to continue saving culture! \r\n\r\nedt: That\u2019s what
    James says, I think.\r\n\r\nAnyway, what this boils down to, here\u2019s another
    self-centered twit jumping on the open source band wagon, albeit with a different
    rhetoric: as a European I tend to be (too) well aware of my own dubious motives
    and those of others, so I\u2019m underdeveloped in the lets be nice to each other
    school of thought.\r\n\r\nBut I still think there are some valid points to make,
    and I would firstly like to clarify what I think are two miscommunications that
    are happening between the both sides of the debate, and then describe what I think
    are real problems in the business of selling typefaces.\r\n\r\n<strong>1 Where
    the typophiles are definitely right: people asking for free fonts don\u2019t understand
    the economic position of a type designer</strong>\r\n\r\n<cite>But when sanctimonious
    academics, graphic designers, and open-source proponents can\u2019t bring anything
    to the table but idealistic manifestos about\u2014cue weepy violin solo\u2014a
    \u201Cgift to humanity\u201D or \u201Cmaking a contribution to the society\u201D
    they\u2019re insulting type designers without proposing a realistic solution to
    the problem that they insist exists.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s a very apt description
    of the situation I think. The problem is: the gift to humanity camp is reasoning
    from it\u2019s own economic perspective, they are not aware that a type designer
    works differently. \r\n\r\n1. Open Source is a business model. You benefit by
    giving stuff away for free because it gives you recognition, this recognition
    in itself enables lots of things just as money does, and ultimately enables you
    to get a job that does earn money, as a consultant, a teacher, etc. Your manifesto,
    James, actually describes the ultimate situation this scenario aims for quite
    well.\r\n\r\n2. This wasn\u2019t invented by open source, its\u2019s how a gift
    giving economy works in general. See Hans Abbing applying this model to artists.
    And of course the place where this is most evidently the primary business model
    is in academics, where you do your best to spread your ideas and show off that
    you\u2019re smart. In fact, the Open Source movement was born in this milieu,
    which shows why it is how it is, and how it can produce great things: because
    smart people are willing to work hard for it. It works the same with artists or
    any other economic model that is based on prestige.\r\n\r\n3. Where the misunderstanding
    starts is when people reason from there own socioeconomic situation judging other
    professionals. Because type design is quite clearly a different thing: you get
    paid to do a lot of hard work with a very concrete result.\r\nWhich means there
    is a much more concrete relation between what you produce and what you sell. As
    an academic, you don\u2019t make money by selling the PhD thesis you worked on
    for three years, but because of the job it gets you. As a type designer, you do
    make money with the typeface you worked on, and there is far less economic proxy
    for it as academics and artists have with teaching etc.\r\n\r\nSo asking type
    designers to give away fonts is like asking them to give up their primary source
    of income. Which is not a nice or moral thing to do. And which understandingly
    irritates you over here.\r\n\r\nSo people should stop asking you to give away
    free fonts. I hope I can play some sort of a roll in this by making your situation
    more clear to to others.\r\n\r\nThat mean you should never give things away. What
    one of your members did in the other thread, giving away glyphs for a type face
    he would probably never finish\u2014that makes much more sense. You contribute
    something that has no direct economic value to yourself, but helps others a lot.
    The same could be said for, for example, helping out with the hinting or kerning
    of a popular open source font.\r\n\r\n<strong>2 External factors contributing
    to the debate getting as heated as it does</strong>\r\n\r\n<cite>\r\nDan: In my
    opinion, \u201Chow to make letters look good, and how to make typography better\u201D
    is: enable anyone to learn how to do these things, and to do them for a living.
    Proprietary software and proprietary fonts can\u2019t do this; they depend on
    secrecy. I\u2019ve invested a lot of time and money in building the infrastructure
    for this to happen; plenty of others have too. It hasn\u2019t happened yet, but
    it is happening, slowly. That\u2019s fine; we are not in a hurry.\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd
    here I completely agree with Dave.\r\nBut this also has to do with a cultural
    misunderstanding, I think.\r\nMy education was in the sphere of academics and
    of autonomous arts, and I was completely baffled at first by the type designer\u2019s
    attitude towards the public sphere.\r\n\r\nThe hostility towards the amateur fonts
    etc. This thread at typographica still makes me angry, because the reaction to
    @fonts is \u2018now the internet will be ugly\u2019.\r\n[[http://typographica.org/001112.php|\"Embedded
    Web Fonts Return. Uh-oh.\"]]\r\n\r\nI figured \u2018but these guys love letters,
    why are they saying these letters are nasty, but they are not allowing their letters
    to be used on the internet, and they\u2019re also not telling people how to make
    them nice?\u2019\r\n\r\nBut that\u2019s also very much an academic\u2019s perspective.
    Who is someone who spends his time telling people how to do stuff, next to doing
    stuff. A type designer probably has less time for that.\r\n\r\nNow what made this
    debate particulary nasty (are there any discussion groups where flickr enthousiasts
    and pro photographers are bickering? not that I know of), is that type designers
    do find a lot of pleasure in discussing their trade together. Whether it\u2019s
    organizing conferences, writing books or hosting a site like this.\r\n\r\nNow
    in the world of Open Source this sort of communication also exists, but it has
    a different role: it\u2019s also the main channel for battling out the ideological
    differences between all the programming religions.\r\n\r\nBut since this is the
    internet, the activity of both subcultures becomes very visible, and both subcultures
    are free to judge the activity of the others and will probably do so, because
    it makes no sense within their own frame of reference.\r\n\r\nWhich I think is
    what Dan says:\r\n<cite>I think that it is a case of priorities. I am a type designer,
    and I care about *one thing* more than anything else. And that is letters, and
    drawing them. I don\u2019t really care about licensing debates. I find all the
    manifestos and the rhetoric rather dull.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat concludes the part
    where I consider my self sort of neutral. Here comes the part where I think font
    foundries have been behaving rather strange for the past fifteen years, \r\n\r\n<strong>3
    The problem is real, not perceived.</strong>\r\n\r\nBut it\u2019s not about free
    fonts.\r\nIt\u2019s about fonts for the screen in general, and fonts for the web
    in particular.\r\n\r\nThe reason it has come up now, is because the open source
    movement is the first vocal and influential movement in which brings together
    users of typefaces. Not only using them in designing and publishing, but anyone
    who who reads letters on the screen.\r\n\r\nThat the \u2018free as in freedom\u2019
    aspect is important now, is because it is important to the Open Source Community.
    But it\u2019s not as important to everyone else. People care about choice, and
    about convenience. People were more than happy to buy songs on iTunes even when
    it was both DRM and bad quality, because iTunes offers an added level of convenience
    and choice both to pirating and a regular music store.\r\n\r\nBut here\u2019s
    the deal: for the past ten years, if you wanted to use a typeface on your personal
    website or in your emails, there hasn\u2019t ever been a convenient solution to
    do so, ever. Image replacement, sIFR, whatever: people don\u2019t want to do that
    because they don\u2019t see why it should be harder to use a font you pay for,
    than it is to use a font that comes with your system.\r\n\r\nI think amateurs
    and enthousiasts would buy much more fonts if they had a convenient way to use
    them online.\r\n\r\nWhat\u2019s actually more worrying, is if people who are knowledgeable
    about type and use it in their professional practice are not buying typefaces.\r\n\r\nThat
    would be me for example: I\u2019m a visual artist who uses a lot of text in his
    work.\r\nA) I love type.It\u2019s the perfect blend between technology and culture.\r\nEver
    since finding out more about type faces and typography I have been amazed at the
    ways in which it has enriched the way I could express myself.\r\nB) I\u2019m an
    artist, and I love buying great tools. The ratio between the amount of money I
    earn, and the amount of money I\u2019m willing to spend on tools that fit me is
    not very smart.\r\nMe, and everybody else for which these two propositions hold
    true (and that\u2019s a lot of people IMHO) should theoretically be the people
    most willing to pay for a good typeface.\r\n\r\nHowever:\r\nC) I don\u2019t buy
    typefaces. Because I can\u2019t use them.\r\n\r\nI use type on my computer. 99%
    of the time I publish something containing type, it\u2019s digital. When I draw
    I draw my own letters; when I publish something in print I work with a printer
    or a designer who own typefaces.\r\n\r\nWhy can\u2019t I use them?\r\n\r\n1. \r\n\r\nI\u2019m
    not allowed to. This is of course the one that all the fuzz is about.\r\n\r\nIn
    the changing landscape the requirements for for example a font change, because
    the thing that the licences try and prohibit is the thing that characterises these
    new developments: redistribution. This is not just affecting type foundries. Everybody
    has to struggle with this. You have to have an online presence, because that\u2019s
    how people find you. At the same time, anything you put online is fundamentally
    out of your control. \r\n\r\nBut as a user I feel foundries are not struggling
    with this problem, they\u2019re just ignoring it and hoping it will go away.\r\n\r\nIn
    doing so, they\u2019re ignoring the needs of their users. I want to use fonts
    that I buy on my website without having to burden my workflow and my web traffic
    with sIFR or image replacement.\r\n\r\nSomething like EOT is fine for me, but
    it\u2019s not here.\r\n\r\nThe attitude becomes apparent when reading a blog post
    on Adobe\u2019s site about web fonts:\r\n\r\nWe will be updating our licensing
    FAQ to make it clear that our existing font license terms allow EOT usage, and
    do not allow linking to original fonts placed on web servers.\r\n\r\nI stumble
    upon this as an end user who wants to get type faces to work. This only tells
    me I\u2019m allowed to do something that\u2019s not there yet, and that something
    which is there already is not allowed. Nowhere I read when this EOT thing will
    be there, and what I should do in the meantime.\r\n\r\n2. This is the one that\u2019s
    mostly ignored, but which is even harder to change overnight.\r\n\r\nCorrect me
    if I\u2019m wrong, but I think foundries and designers are still mainly designing
    and marketing fonts meant for print use. So even if I could use a font in the
    way I wanted, it wouldn\u2019t look good as it was never hinted as well as the
    screen fonts bundled with my OS. \r\n\r\nAdobe\u2019s push of Opentype for me
    is similar as the music industry rallying behind Super Audio CD. A new medium
    is coming up, which you envision as threatening to your business, so you make
    your old medium (which was already pretty sophisticated in itself) even more sophisticated
    and desirable.\r\n\r\nThis doesn\u2019t work because quality or sophistication
    in itself can\u2019t influence a large social development like the switch from
    paper to screen.\r\n\r\nAn example. I completely love Adobe\u2019s Caslon, Garamond
    and Jenson face. They are, in a way, the pinnacle of type design for DTP. In the
    context of a new technology they reinterpret a visual and an industrial heritage
    in a way that is very much their own.\r\n\r\nWhat I don\u2019t get, is why I haven\u2019t
    seen efforts like this for the screen, other than the ones that come with my operating
    system. Why doesn\u2019t Adobe make a Caslon Web, a Garamond Web and a Jenson
    Web?\r\n\r\nA small character set, a small amount of typographic choice but a
    large amount of typographic sophistication, one weight only, with it\u2019s curves
    and kerning optimized for the screen, and sublime hinting.\r\n\r\nIf anyone can
    do this, Adobe can. Why could this not be an economically viable outset? \r\nIMHO
    it\u2019s at least a viable outset aesthetically. I recently discovered Bitstream
    Charter, by Matthew Carter, which I am able to use as @font-face. It\u2019s curves
    are very spartan, because of the requirements of early PostScript printers. But
    because Carter is a brilliant designer he makes the face work, not in spite of,
    but because of the limitations. It becomes it\u2019s strength: it manages to reduce
    a serif face to it\u2019s bare essence, as opposed to smothering it in mannerist
    putti.\r\n\r\nThe same goes for Georgia. The screen handles curves differently,
    I\u2019ll use different curves that still look great. The screen doesn\u2019t
    allow me to choose between normal and old style numerals, I prefer the latter,
    I\u2019ll only give it Old style numerals. That\u2019s great.\r\n\r\nThe great
    fonts we have are here because companies like Microsoft commisioned them. Lucas
    de Groot\u2019s font for Vista are a stellar achievement. But they also clearly
    highlight the failure of font foundries to venture into this terrain\r\n\r\nSo
    that\u2019s the problem in a nut shell. It\u2019s not like we need five thousand
    typefaces. Five or six good ones would be enough. But we have only have one widely
    available, and that\u2019s Georgia. So there we have our transitional serif. But
    I want to use a neutral sans on the screen, a geometrical sans, a humanist sans,
    a modern serif and an old-style serif.\r\n\r\nThis has been a gaping hole ignored
    by the market for a long time. Of course there\u2019s probably lots of reasons
    for that, but one of them seems to have been all the concerns about piracy, which
    IMHO has been a waste of energy and resources that could have been better spent
    in formulating new business models more suited to today.\r\n\r\nBut seeing the
    current attitude towards fonts on the web from the foundries, I don\u2019t see
    it happening overnight. That has people like me jumping on the open source band
    wagon as well, which Sil, you might find selfish. It is. But my needs aren\u2019t
    met by the type foundries now, otherwise I would not have bothered.\r\n\r\nAs
    their predecessors failed to adapt to new technologies, to me it looks like the
    big foundries of the 90ies are bound to become small again. They\u2019re not keeping
    pace with the rest of the technological world, which is moving on-line and massively
    adapting open source technologies (adapting is the key word here-companies do
    so because of economical advantages, not because of ideology.).\r\n\r\nI find
    it somewhat unsettling, for example, to read Emigre\u2019s licensing requirements.
    Firstly, because it\u2019s a document that only consists only of statements that
    inform me that no I can\u2019t use what I want to buy in whatever way I see fit,
    which by itself is enough to make me uncomfortable. I can\u2019t even embed a
    font in a PDF without paying more for it. But what unsettles me most, is that
    it reads as the report of an organization desperately trying to cling on to strategies
    that once worked, but now are being ignored the rest of the world.\r\n\r\nEric"
  created: '2009-02-09 19:19:50'
- author:
    name: micahbrich
    picture: 116826
  body: "Hi everyone. I'm Micah, and I'm the other founder.\r\n\r\nAll due respect,
    after <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/53444\">the thread</a> from the other
    day, I expected this sort of negative attention here, and it's okay.\r\n\r\nI
    think there's a big misunderstanding here. We're not asking you for anything.\r\n\r\nThis
    is not a generic call to type designers everywhere to give up their business models
    and follow us into the Communist heaven in the sky. Not that I wouldn't love it,
    but that's not what this is. We're reaching out to typographers who already agree
    with our perspectives on business and good deeds, who understand the benefits
    of giving a typeface away, and who want to help. We're contacting them, and letting
    them contact us, and everyone else can take it for what it is. I do hope that
    everyone here <em>can</em> take it for what it is, and not assign intentions that
    don't exist.\r\n\r\nThe end product of that is something that will allow amateurs
    and professionals alike to experiment with using and making high quality fonts
    without being restricted by licensing and legalities. We politely disagree that
    mixing philanthropy and business is a bad idea, and in fact, that's exactly what
    we're trying to do.\r\n\r\n--\r\nMicah Rich\r\nhttp://www.weareagoodcompany.com"
  created: '2009-02-09 19:45:02'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: '@Haley http://www.fontsquirrel.com/'
  created: '2009-02-09 19:46:59'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I think there\u2019s a big misunderstanding here. We\u2019re not asking
    you for anything.\r\n\r\nAs I wrote the one line summary \"Pair of graphic designers
    ask type designers to give away fonts...\" I should probably point to what led
    to this misunderstanding... \r\n\r\n<EM>\"There are people who design typefaces
    for a living, and we want them to make money off of something that they do well.
    This revolution is not a movement against type foundries and type designers; it's
    quite the opposite. The kind of revolution we want is a change in the way people
    think about doing business. <STRONG>We want type foundries and typographers to
    start thinking,\r\n\r\n\"Maybe there's nothing wrong with giving things away sometimes.\"</STRONG>\r\n\r\nIt's
    not always about the money, sometimes it's also about making a contribution to
    the society, in this case, the design community. Giving one typeface away for
    free will most likely only boost sales, and it's a good deed. We want more people
    to look at it like that: like they have a responsibility to do something good
    for their peers. We're not asking type designers and type foundries to sacrifice
    profit, <STRONG>we're asking them to contribute to a greater cause</STRONG>, to
    create a community where we not only have a high design standard for print and
    web alike, but also a community where we're able to share our creations, knowledge,
    and expertise with our peers and the world.\"</EM>\r\n\r\nSo sorry if I got the
    wrong end of the stick. To me it comes across as both \"preachy\" and \"asking\".
    \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-09 20:37:42'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>To me it comes across as both \u201Cpreachy\u201D and \u201Casking\u201D.</cite>\r\n\r\nSeconded.
    A clearing house for high-end F/OSS fonts is one thing. A dogmatic manifesto is
    another. \r\n\r\n@Eric: You make many good points, and if you can put all that
    together, you should follow it up with a good essay explaining why type designers
    should be the ones responsible for solving the web-fonts conundrum and why letting
    people derail web fonts with the piracy strawman is a waste of time."
  created: '2009-02-09 21:09:26'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: '....Nevermind'
  created: '2009-02-09 21:50:11'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: '...the'
  created: '2009-02-09 22:04:59'
- author:
    name: lailsonbm
  body: 'I think Schrijuer answered my point on the first part of his essay (oh sorry,
    it was a post): open source is a very well established bussiness model, very different
    of the way  design market works...'
  created: '2009-02-09 22:13:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Correct me if I\u2019m wrong, but I think foundries and designers are
    still mainly designing and marketing fonts meant for print use.</em>\r\n\r\nYou
    are wrong.\r\nAny font that is hinted may be considered as designed for pixels,
    and even those that are not may be used in pixel display via Photoshop and PDFs
    and look OK in rasterized form--live type for html is not the be-all and end-all.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    one tries to make one's fonts look good in layout applications, when designers
    are working with them, even if the eventual product is going to be printed. \r\n\r\nWhen
    foundries put restrictions in licences to prohibit certain uses associated with
    the Internet--to protect their intellectual property--this does not mean that
    the font is intended \"mainly...for print\".\r\n\r\nIt's true that, following
    the money, many foundries undertake commissions to design typefaces for print
    publications, but this is not of the foundries' doing. For instance, I have been
    commissioned by news organizations to design types for their newspapers, but not
    for their online sites, where they have been content to use the Microsoft standbys,
    for reasons of \"universal accessibility\". \r\nIndependent foundries are beholden
    to our technological masters, those who create the software for font formats and
    applications, so please don't blame us for not being web-friendly because it's
    not economically viable for us to give the shop away, or because web clients are
    not prepared to pay an appropriate licensing fee, or don't think that distinctive
    typography is important enough to warrant using anything other than the MS web
    fonts.\r\n\r\n<em>....Nevermind.</em>\r\n\r\nRight."
  created: '2009-02-09 22:20:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> this is the kind of world I want to live in\r\n\r\nYou don't get to choose.\r\nDoubly
    not for other people.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-09 23:12:43'
- author:
    name: Nachos
    picture: 116245
  body: "Sorry for not reading all of your posts thoroughly. My eyes stare at a screen
    long enough each day. \r\n\r\n@ James. I suppose the same way I get paid to \"design
    stuff nobody needs, packaging for stuff nobody needs, and advertising for stuff
    nobody needs\", is how type designers deserve to be paid for designing thousands
    of type faces nobody really <em>needs</em>. I guess we're all a bunch of \"parasites\".\r\n\r\nOn
    the other hand, I love type and I really DO think we should all get paid to do
    what we love and are good at. And if you're not getting paid enough for what you
    do to purchase a few good fonts then I suggest you get better at what you do and
    stop asking for handouts from the type design community."
  created: '2009-02-09 23:26:43'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I guess we\u2019re all a bunch of \u201Cparasites\u201D.</cite>\r\n\r\nJust
    to be clear, that post was a sarcastic take on design manifestos. Hence the glue-sniffing
    joke. I don\u2019t actually believe that most design is really about selling stuff
    nobody needs, I just believe that nobody needs preachy design manifestos. "
  created: '2009-02-09 23:43:32'
- author:
    name: Nachos
    picture: 116245
  body: Haha, you mean the kind of manifestos that are meant to persuade type designers
    to cough over their hard work for free? Shouldn't they be designing some piece
    of propaganda for that purpose? I would design it if I thought they would pay
    me.
  created: '2009-02-10 00:03:38'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "<cite>http://www.weareagoodcompany.com</cite>\r\n\r\nDoes this mean that
    the logos and graphics on this site are free as well? It would be cool if their
    portfolio had vector downloads. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-10 00:51:55'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "@Dave/abbatis: <cite>Proprietary software and proprietary fonts can\u2019t
    do this; they depend on secrecy.</cite>\r\n\r\nNonsense. There are plenty of examples
    of people and companies making proprietary fonts who are willing to train others
    and share design approaches and production methods, sometimes even tools, even
    without any direct financial compensation for themselves. Look at Adobe's type
    group over the past decade, for example. All the type design and production workshops
    and seminars at TypeCon and ATypI over the years. The typeface design critique
    sessions at TypeCon.\r\n\r\n\r\n@Eric Schrijver: I actually agree with a lot of
    what you wrote, but there were a few things I wanted to comment on.\r\n\r\n<cite>You
    benefit by giving stuff away for free because it gives you recognition, this recognition
    in itself enables lots of things just as money does, and ultimately enables you
    to get a job that does earn money, as a consultant, a teacher, etc.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's
    fine as far as it goes, but that means that the best type designers, who don't
    need recognition, have no motive under this argument. Heck, I'm not sure I have
    a motive under this argument, either (and I'm not one of the best type designers,
    just well-known for other reasons).\r\n\r\n<cite>I figured \u2018but these guys
    love letters, why are they saying these letters are nasty, but they are not allowing
    their letters to be used on the internet, and they\u2019re also not telling people
    how to make them nice?\u2019</cite>\r\n\r\n1) These guys love *good* letters and
    typography. Most of them hate crap. Their standards of what's \"good\" and what's
    \"crap\" may be different than yours.\r\n\r\n2) Whether or not you agree, understand
    that folks who think this way (including me) believe that the percentage of utter
    junk and even moderate junk is much higher among free fonts than among retail
    fonts from vendors/designers with a reputation for quality. \r\n\r\n3) Not allowing
    their fonts to be used on the internet without any protections? Which they think
    would destroy their living? How is this inconsistent with loving good type and
    typography? They believe that this would reduce people's willingness to pay for
    fonts and hence employ type designers, and that it is therefore a *threat* to
    good typography. In other words, differing underlying assumptions are leading
    them to a different conclusion. I'm not saying which side's assumptions are correct,
    though thus far the free-font-skeptics seem to have more on their side.\r\n\r\n4)
    \"They\u2019re also not telling people how to make them nice.\" That's just untrue.
    There are MANY professional type designers and font production folks who are not
    in the free fonts movement but have given a LOT of their time to help others make
    better typefaces/fonts. See my reply to Dave Crossland above in this same message
    thread.\r\n\r\n<cite>I stumble upon this as an end user who wants to get type
    faces to work. This only tells me I\u2019m allowed to do something that\u2019s
    not there yet, and that something which is there already is not allowed. Nowhere
    I read when this EOT thing will be there, and what I should do in the meantime.</cite>\r\n\r\nIf
    you want to be able to use fonts from Adobe and other retail vendors, press the
    W3C to support EOT, or at least something else that will make those vendors happy.\r\n\r\nMy
    current take is that the W3C will not adopt EOT, and that there's a reasonable
    possibility they won't adopt anything that meets the needs of font vendors. If
    that occurs, some W3C members will be perfectly happy. They don't feel any need
    to enable anything seems like DRM to them, and believe that it's up to the font
    developers to come up with a viable business model in the face of @font-face font
    linking to desktop fonts on web servers.\r\n\r\nThen either the web will get worse
    typographically, or fonts will get massively ripped off, or maybe a bit of both.
    The people who rejected EOT will blame the font vendors, and the font vendors
    will blame those people, and nothing will get better.\r\n\r\nA damn shame, that.
    \r\n\r\n<cite>Adobe\u2019s push of Opentype for me is similar as the music industry
    rallying behind Super Audio CD. A new medium is coming up, which you envision
    as threatening to your business....</cite>\r\n\r\nHuh? This is REALLY far off
    base. Adobe started pushing OpenType back before I joined them in 1997, and it
    was not in reaction to any new medium, particularly. Besides which, what does
    OpenType do to fight that medium? fsType embedding bits? Remember, Adobe makes
    all the fonts it owns completely with editable embedding, which is pretty liberal
    (though not as liberal as installable)....\r\n\r\nWhen Adobe got into OpenType,
    they saw it primarily about getting better typography, better language support,
    and ending the font wars. Using the fsType bits for web fonts was a relatively
    small part of all that, and a part really pushed by Microsoft at the time (late
    90s), rather than Adobe. It was also sort of tangential - fsType bits already
    existed in TrueType.\r\n\r\nI haven't worked for Adobe for a couple of months
    now, so I don't have any vested interest in defending Adobe as a company, just
    trying to keep straight what happened.\r\n\r\n<cite>What I don\u2019t get, is
    why I haven\u2019t seen efforts like this for the screen, other than the ones
    that come with my operating system. Why doesn\u2019t Adobe make a Caslon Web,
    a Garamond Web and a Jenson Web?</cite>\r\n\r\nAdobe was indeed slow to get on
    the type-for-the-screen bandwagon, particularly on the type design side. But I
    think there is a *lot* of awareness around these issues at the company today.
    Then again, I also think that using the \"Caption\" cuts of most of the key Adobe
    typefaces with optical size variants available answers a good chunk of the need.
    People just don't know which fonts they ought to use.\r\n\r\nThat being said,
    there isn't much reason for Adobe to push screen fonts for the web without also
    having a means of handling web fonts that Adobe is willing to support.\r\n\r\n<cite>The
    screen doesn\u2019t allow me to choose between normal and old style numerals</cite>\r\n\r\nWell,
    HTML/CSS doesn't, today. You certainly can make such choices if you're doing PDF
    or SWF or whatnot. Probably you'll be able to make those choices in HTML/CSS within
    a couple more years.\r\n\r\nI don't think I concur that the \"big foundries of
    the 90s are bound to become small again.\" Within the next 10-15 years I don't
    think it's the most likely outcome, though it's certainly possible. I think that
    although they may be less agile in some ways, and more conservative in some ways,
    Adobe and Monotype/Linotype have a lot more resources. They're also the only two
    foundries who have been active in the W3C discussions around web fonts.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-02-10 01:26:04'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "Re: Georgia\r\n\r\nDon't all serif fonts look like Georgia at small sizes
    on screen anyway? And if they don't, shouldn't they? (okay maybe a *slight* oversimplification)\r\n\r\nI
    totally agree with this line from Thomas:\r\n<em>People just don\u2019t know which
    fonts they ought to use.</em>\r\n\r\nThis is what all the misdirected manifestos
    should be addressing. IMO"
  created: '2009-02-10 01:49:44'
- author:
    name: Schrijver
    picture: 116831
  body: "Well as James suggested I started writing I second essay :-) then saw that
    you replied to a lot of my points Thomas so I'll come back to this tomorrow as
    it's far to late over here now.\r\n\r\nAll this makes me think more highly of
    digital communities. I was getting all pessimistic that by having everybody's
    opinion accessible to anybody all the time, loads of unnecessary arguments would
    constantly spring up all the time. \r\n\r\nWell they obviously do, yet at the
    same time when taking some effort to formulate opinions on matters that matter
    to me, I can actually discuss them with experts in this field from across the
    world.\r\n\r\nNifty!\r\n\r\nTake Care,\r\n\r\nEric"
  created: '2009-02-10 02:40:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> All this makes me think more highly of digital communities.\r\n\r\nNot
    to burst your bubble, and not that I'm some accomplished forum-hopper, but Typophile
    is pretty special; most online communities are pretty impoverished. Flickr for
    example is totally hopeless. And I have to think the quality of a forum comes
    from the quality of its topic.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-10 03:48:37'
- author:
    name: WeAreLoa
    picture: 128775
  body: "So they want to \"make a difference\" by asking <em>others</em> to give away
    their... typefaces. <em>Really?</em>. I mean come on people, who (or what) do
    you think this will really help, other than your resume/ego?\r\n\r\nHere's some
    other ideas that may be, I don't know, a little less introspective and self serving:\r\n\r\n-
    give blood\r\n- start a community garden\r\n- collect for a charity\r\n- volunteer
    at a homeless shelter\r\n- sponsor an aids orphan\r\n- paint faces at a kids hospital\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-10 03:55:43'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Gary, that list reminds me of <a href="http://ffffound.com/image/fa0cff5d183ad1b98c6c59aacc73202986375779?c=2214155">this
    classic piece</a>.
  created: '2009-02-10 04:50:53'
- author:
    name: WeAreLoa
    picture: 128775
  body: "James, my thoughts exactly, but I'm too polite. \r\n\r\nI'm also reminded
    of a shirt Daniel Eatock created with \"F*** DESIGN\" written across it. In a
    forum like this one someone commented that you don't see dentists wearing shirts
    that say \"F*** DENTISTRY\" because dentists aren't knobs.\r\n\r\nI do love type
    and design, but these days believe it will save the world exactly five minutes
    after Rock and Roll does."
  created: '2009-02-10 05:24:53'
- author:
    name: Yehan
    picture: 112677
  body: "Aren't we drifting away from the original topic?\r\n\r\nAnyways..I was re-reading
    the title of this post \u2013 giving 1 typeface away will most likely only booster
    sales, and it's good deed.\r\n\r\n1. Most likely? \u2013 where's the research
    to prove this?\r\n\r\n2. Giving 1 typeface away \u2013 FontShop does this on a
    regular basis, offering weights of selected fonts for free download. Whether or
    not it boosts sales...hmm..\r\n\r\n3. It is a good deed \u2013 HUH? In what sense?
    on a global level? or just the small community of design? I would be happier if
    someone announced on their font site that a percentage of the profits was going
    to help people in Africa..."
  created: '2009-02-10 08:52:20'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: Just spotted http://www.droidfonts.com/ and seems relevant
  created: '2009-02-10 12:17:03'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "@Yehan - i agree, i would rather pay for commercial fonts and have some of
    the money go to helping people than get free fonts. big statement, but true.\r\n\r\nit's
    a pity fonts arn't needed like shoes.. cause i like the idea of programs like
    Toms Shoes where for every pair bought they send a pair to people who need shoes
    in africa.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.tomsshoes.com/\r\n\r\nif the type design community
    could ever do something like that it would be great."
  created: '2009-02-10 13:13:03'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "I'm going to release one of my fonts to them because: \r\n\r\n\u2022It's
    already under the same CC license and available widely for free. I know there
    have already been derivative works based on it which I'm totally cool with for
    this font.\r\n\r\n\u2022It's a single display face, I have no plans in the future
    to expand it and then possibly want to sell the whole family together for monies.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-10 15:13:09'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "This parallels the music industry. Do people that want/take 'free' music
    hurt or help the industry? I've seen plausible arguments for both sides of that
    debate with no clear winner.\r\n\r\nAs a designer who buys type, I'm not sold
    that giving way free fonts necessarily leads to better sales, though I'd say it
    certainly helps with the good will. \r\n\r\nI think one could make some good market
    good-will by pushing a face into the open source realm. Alternatively, maybe consider
    it linkware with some sort of 'link back' license. ie, you may embed this typeface
    for free in any web site you create in exchange for a link back to our foundry's
    site'.\r\n\r\nA lot of web software is marketed that way: You can use component
    X for free if you link back, or pay us if you'd prefer to not have the link back
    to us."
  created: '2009-02-10 16:36:19'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "<em>[...] collection of high-quality typefaces, anyone who has a well designed
    typeface to share with the world is welcome to join. [...] we want to maintain
    the highest standards.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm curious about what your standards are ...
    I looked quickly at the Junction font on the site, and I'm sorry, but I have to
    say it wouldn't meet any of <em>my</em> standards, aesthetically or technically.
    Only one weight, only a veeery limited character set, and it's not drawn well
    at all.\r\n\r\nI can hardly believe this will be the beginning of an open source
    font revolution ..."
  created: '2009-02-10 17:10:01'
- author:
    name: P A Hardy
  body: "Hi - as an open-source end-user who has no typography expertise but a lay
    interest in type, I feel that part of the reason for open source doesn't really
    apply here. Open source software development allows for collaborative improvement
    of software, i.e. \"given enough eyes, all bugs are shallow.\" In the case of
    a designed item like a typeface, more contributors will not improve its usability
    or quality. Quite the reverse, in fact.\r\n\r\nI appreciate the licensing restrictions
    which cause problems to linux distro vendors - conflicting with the GPL; but we
    have the Liberation fonts which match the metrics of Arial, TNR and Courier, which
    means that documents will be cross-platform compatible. And a small selection
    of fonts such as Charter, Gentium, Cardo etc, as well as the fine system font
    Aurulent Sans provide an adequate basis for a distro. As an individual user I
    would then expect to buy fonts I would want for specific purposes*. The bigger
    problem for open source is surely the licensing restriction around the hinting
    engines spoiling our rendering of fonts?\r\n\r\nThe biggest issue for me is the
    fact that for example my son's school prints ALL its letters, documents, homework
    sheets etc in Comic Sans MS :(  More access to good free fonts gives people who
    haven't chosen to buy them more stuff to use badly!\r\n\r\n*But maybe I'm not
    like other individual users."
  created: '2009-02-10 17:31:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>This parallels the music industry.</em>\r\n\r\nNot really.\r\nWhat is
    the musical equivalent of a professional tool?\r\nNot a musical recording. "
  created: '2009-02-10 19:01:51'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "@Dave/abbatis: Yes, the Droid fonts are a high-quality set of fonts available
    under an open source Apache 2 license. What the Droid fonts are not is a new or
    interesting model for how fonts are either developed (they were done privately,
    not by a community) or paid for (they were commissioned by a single large corporation).\r\n\r\nhttp://download.damieng.com/fonts/redistributed/DroidFamily.zip\r\n\r\n\r\n@Caroline:
    I spent some time looking over the Junction font, and although I agree with Jens
    that it is not up to professional standards for quality, I do think it is better
    than the strong majority of freeware, and it shows promise. For example, although
    your sidebearings are more than a little off, there was discipline and consistency
    in the values you used. Feel free to drop me a note offlist if you'd like some
    detailed comments.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-02-10 21:49:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Better yet, put up a PDF on Typophile, and we'll help\r\nyou make it... salable.
    :-)  Then if you still decide to\r\ngive it away, you'll know that at least you're
    making\r\nsome decent cultural contribution.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-10 21:58:13'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>Better yet, put up a PDF on Typophile, and we\u2019ll help\r\nyou make
    it... salable. :-)</em>\r\n\r\nI think that's actually a pretty good idea. The
    opensource typeface people could post their own designs on the Crit-board (like
    that typeface Junction) and we can help them make them better.\r\n\r\nWhile most
    people here are not willing to give away their livelihood,\r\nthey have shown
    to be more than willing to give critique and tips on type designs on the Crit-board.
    Doesn't this -- the sharing of very specific knowledge -- count as a 'good deed'
    as well? \r\n\r\n(Eventhough it doesn't save you money?)"
  created: '2009-02-10 22:04:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "In fact it benefits something all type designers necessarily value (type
    design itself) as opposed to something many of us mostly see as merely a necessary
    revenue stream (graphic design in general). Just putting out another font is much
    less helpful than putting out public discourse of how to make fonts that are actually
    good. One thing the latter promotes that the former can actual demote is an appreciation
    of how hard it is to make a font worth more than the room it takes up on a hard
    disk!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-10 22:18:04'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Not really.\r\nWhat is the musical equivalent of a professional tool?\"\r\n\r\nThat's
    not the parallel I was referring to. Rather, the 'does giving something away help
    sales, or hurt sales?'\r\n\r\nBut, whatever..."
  created: '2009-02-10 22:27:16'
- author:
    name: khakis_on_fire
    picture: 116702
  body: "@Quincunx: \r\n\r\nHey! I like the sound of that. From where I sit (a designer
    working inside an open source software company), that sounds like its in the spirit
    of open source.\r\n\r\nI see two opportunities in this discussion to fill voids
    that are not currently addressed in the type world.\r\n\r\n1) non-professional
    (or wannabe, beginner, whatever) type designers want to get better. And they want
    exposure. A forum that provides lots of feedback, including about technical details
    that separate the wheat from the chaff, would go a long way to helping them get
    better. And encouragement to release what they come up with under open licenses
    (lets call them practice fonts) helps them get exposure.\r\n\r\n2) this stockpile
    of less-sucky (because of the help and collaboration they received from the forums)
    free fonts could then be used by those people who need fonts that aren't effectively
    served by the foundries today (for example, students with no money but a passion
    for type, free software users, and even the dreaded @font-face user). That way,
    those audiences are less likely to use non-free type incorrectly.\r\n\r\nYou'll
    probably all find holes in the idea, but it seems pretty win-win.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-11 00:37:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That #1 is Typophile, for almost 9 years now.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-11 01:14:17'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Feedback is good, yes. I was rather assuming that if people wanted to get
    public feedback, they'd post stuff in the crit section. It's not like this option
    is new last month or something \u2014 it's been there for years and years.\r\n\r\nI
    think people would find it helpful if there were some means of identifying either
    from the forum choice or from the thread title if the font being critiqued was
    intended to be open source or freeware of some sort. They might be more or less
    inclined to contribute critiques based on this variable.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-02-11 01:18:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I would leave it at the discretion of the designer to reveal the distribution
    intent (which, notably, can change over the course of development). Of course
    a person inclined to give a crit can ask, and refuse to help based on the revelation
    (or lack thereof). This is pretty much the way Typophile stands now (although
    I haven't noticed more/fewer crits based on any declared distribution intent).
    The only problem is we don't have enough font crits these days - too many people
    seem too focused on critiquing layouts/logos. Boring as hell.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-11 01:41:39'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "Fuck Free.  Free is dangerous for those who solely design fonts and nothing
    else's.  \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-11 01:48:31'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "A famous Type Designer is like a famous dentist, letters will never get you
    laid.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-11 01:49:58'
- author:
    name: khakis_on_fire
    picture: 116702
  body: "@hrant and thomas:\r\n\r\nYeah, I know! And that's why I was so surprised
    at the reaction that last thread (and this one, too) got here. So much of the
    collaboration that goes on here mirrors the sort of stuff that's called \"open
    source,\" minus the licensing model, of course. That seems like a issue that's
    best handled by each designer, based on their philosophy and situation.\r\n\r\nP.S.
    I hope a designer saying they intend to release under a free/open license wouldn't
    keep their work from being critiqued! "
  created: '2009-02-11 03:28:47'
- author:
    name: merkri
  body: 'Just to be clear--open-sourcing fonts opens them up to a whole new level
    of criticism potentially. Typophile is a great place for type critique, but open-sourcing
    them potentially introduces another layer of transparency to the process. '
  created: '2009-02-11 05:21:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That doesn't make too much sense, because:\r\n1) Releasing a font isn't supposed
    to -primarily- be a learning exercise; a font is supposed to be a working tool.
    You release a font when it's good enough. You don't release a font to find out
    what's wrong with it!\r\n2) The best people to give crits are other type designers
    (although not all type designers are good communicators). And type designers don't
    really go around downloading free fonts (or even commercial fonts) and using them
    enough to get a feel for them. A graphic designer trying out a font can certainly
    give a cogent opinion of whether it works for him or not, but he can't really
    tell you how to improve it.\r\n\r\nIf you want to improve your font, you show
    it here.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-11 05:39:53'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "@hrant\r\n\r\n<cite> If you want to improve your font, you show it here.\r\n\r\nthat
    could be the tag line for the crit section :-)"
  created: '2009-02-11 06:50:28'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Simon, weren't you the moderator of the font management software panel at
    TypeCon New York. That panel of font management apps -- apps whose titles I can't
    even remember right now -- were in a face-off with the Linotype FontExplorer rep?
    Linotype sucked the air out from their whole business model. It sucked for the
    old model, but it was a brilliant move for Linotype. Dan, as a Linotype employee,
    would you agree?\r\n\r\nFree [fill in the blank] is/are going to happen. People
    are going to make and publish free stuff, and sometimes it will be quality. They
    just have other motives; they put a value on something other than direct revenue.
    They're trading their effort for either marketing awareness, ad revenue or an
    installed base of customers. iTunes killed the paid desktop media management software
    category. iTunes was an investment for Apple and gave them a massive installed
    base from which to deploy their killer iPod and subsequent iPhone. (Even though
    iPhone uses Helvetica in the UI. Hah.)\r\n\r\nFontShop gave away the very basic,
    but very fun <a href=\"http://fontstruct.fontshop.com/\">FontStruct</a>. MyFonts
    is giving away a free WhatTheFont service (<a href=\"http://blog.myfonts.com/archives/177\">and
    matching iPhone app</a> that I can't wait to try out) that companies used to charge
    for.\r\n\r\nBut, is the free font manifesto really altruistic? No. It helps mask
    the real goal to generate marketing buzz and revenue for design or illustration
    services. You don't have to agree with them, but you can't blame them. To build
    a reputation requires building attention; something you get when you give away
    something of value. And for them, the attention will feel good. Designers will
    respond, fans will follow, for now.\r\n\r\nThey'll look back in a few years and
    see that it got them some good buzz and helped push their design practice further.
    (I'm already a fan of Haley Fiege's Kingdomofawesome, but I found <a href=\"http://flickr.com/photos/kingdomofawesome/\">her
    stuff on Flickr</a>, which is a free photo sharing site that nearly put paid photo
    sites like Ofoto out of business.)\r\n\r\nI don't think they will change the landscape
    of the type industry. I don't think they will be the force that makes @font-face
    succeed. But, they will have done it with class among their peer group; the under
    30 crowd. You have to give them credit for that."
  created: '2009-02-11 07:00:16'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: 'Just so we''re totally clear: I''m not an apologist for the free font argument.
    I am just helping everybody see this for what it is, a buzz marketing move, and
    that I don''t think there''s a credible threat to the type industry as we know
    it.'
  created: '2009-02-11 07:37:00'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "^agreed.\r\n\r\nAlso most users pay to use Flickr. I sure do."
  created: '2009-02-11 15:40:49'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "The bigger question nobody's asking is: \r\n\r\nIf you're a desinger, can
    you really believe in a free font movement that enable you to give your clients
    fonts that any other company could just as easily adopt for free?\r\n\r\nWe're
    talking about font quality of free fonts, but nobody's talking about the value
    to end clients. Consider what you're doing to the quality of design if everybody
    has access to the same free fonts. That's the reason a free font movement seems
    to do disservice to designers. \r\n\r\nI'm all for free, quality clip art, but
    there's no way I would use it in client work. Ever."
  created: '2009-02-11 18:37:56'
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: "A designer who doesn't want to pay for his fonts.\r\nA client who doesn't
    want to pay for his design.\r\nThis is a match made in let-em-sit-in-their-own-cheapness
    heaven!"
  created: '2009-02-11 19:13:54'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Consider what you\u2019re doing to the quality of design if everybody has
    access to the same free fonts.\"\r\n\r\nHow many companies have already standardized
    on Helvetica/Georgia/Times/etc?\r\n\r\nI'm not sure the 'exclusivity' of a particular
    face is a huge issue in this particular discussion. I'm not sure more free fonts
    will necessarily reduce the demand for great commercial faces. "
  created: '2009-02-11 19:27:03'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "With enough free fonts, free stock photo, free clip art, free web templates,
    and free server software we can all bring the wages paid by winning design contests
    up to minimum wage! That\u2019s something to look forward to."
  created: '2009-02-11 19:37:27'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I don\u2019t think they will change the landscape of the type industry.
    I don\u2019t think they will be the force that makes @font-face succeed. But,
    they will have done it with class among their peer group; the under 30 crowd.
    You have to give them credit for that.\r\n\r\nI have trouble accepting that I\u2019m
    too old to see the \u201Cclass\u201D in the site. Compare it against two related
    efforts\u2026\r\n\r\nOpen Source - http://scripts.sil.org/cms/scripts/page.php?site_id=nrsi&id=OFL
    \r\n\r\n@font-face - http://www.webfonts.info/\r\n\r\nI think these sites show
    a lot more class, and don\u2019t seem to generate the same level of criticism.
    Could this be because for Victor and Ralf the peers are other type designers?
    \r\n"
  created: '2009-02-11 19:50:11'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Simon, my under 30 reference was a generalization (dangerous to do!) that
    the 'net generation wants and expects a free and open source world. (Again generalization
    that is dangerous to make.) And you're right, my saying \"classy\" is a bad word
    choice. A better word choice would've been cred -- credibility among their peer
    group who I'm asserting will also respond positively to a free/open source font
    community.\r\n\r\nJames, value is the biggest thing at stake here. Free instantly
    says devalue me. When you bring a free face to a job you're telling your client
    that you know they're too cheap to buy a font, and that you don't value your work
    enough to bring any measure of exclusivity to it. \r\n\r\nAnd too many corporations
    have settled on Helvetica/Georgia/Times as their default font. New free fonts
    won't make that problem any worse, it will just give them different options.\r\n\r\nI'm
    asserting there's no net loss from free fonts, but that firms who embrace free
    fonts are doing themselves (and their clients) a disservice.\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-11 20:51:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...there\u2019s no net loss from free fonts...</em>\r\n\r\n...Nevermind."
  created: '2009-02-11 21:51:04'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>Hey! I like the sound of that. From where I sit (a designer working
    inside an open source software company), that sounds like its in the spirit of
    open source.</em>\r\n\r\nWell, spread the word in your partof the open source
    scene about the crit-board. :)\r\nSharing very specific knowledge is what Typophile
    is about. There are alot of very knowledgable people on this website, willing
    to share it.\r\n\r\nI think the crit-board can use some more activity anyway,
    both from people posting their work as well as typophile experts commenting on
    the work (doesn't happen enough unfortunately)."
  created: '2009-02-11 22:07:27'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>Hey! I like the sound of that. From where I sit (a designer working
    inside an open source software company), that sounds like its in the spirit of
    open source.</em>\r\n\r\nWell, spread the word in your part of the open source
    scene about the crit-board. :)\r\nSharing very specific knowledge is what Typophile
    is about. There are alot of very knowledgable people on this website, willing
    to share it.\r\n\r\nI think the crit-board can use some more activity anyway,
    both from people posting their work as well as typophile experts commenting on
    the work (doesn't happen enough unfortunately)."
  created: '2009-02-11 22:07:40'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "<em>...there's no net loss from [the addition of the League of Movable Type
    calling for more] free fonts...</em> \r\n\r\nYes, I really think that. I would
    be shocked if designers all over the world said, hey you're right League Guys,
    I should give away more fonts since I'm having a hard time selling them!\r\n\r\nI'm
    trying to steer the conversation back to the graphic designers and type design
    hobbyists who are asking for a free font community. I'm not sure they know why
    they're asking for it. A face like Gentium is the only example of a type project
    that fits a real, addressable humanitarian need."
  created: '2009-02-11 22:19:48'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "<em>From where I sit (a designer working inside an open source software company)</em>\r\n\r\nLibby,
    does that mean that you work for free?"
  created: '2009-02-11 23:11:47'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Libby, does that mean that you work for free?\r\n\r\nOff topic but I'm interested
    in how you work too. Is any of your design work posted under an open source license?
    Do you only use open source fonts with open source tools, running on open source
    apps. Or this more along the lines of a regular design job?\r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2009-02-11 23:31:08'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "<cite>firms who embrace free fonts are doing themselves (and their clients)
    a disservice.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's a pretty bold statement don't you think? \r\n\r\nI've
    worked with clients who can afford to license Archer for 50 computers but also
    clients who can barely afford my fee, let alone pay for extra fonts. Free fonts
    are not all bad. Fonts that come standard with your machine are not all bad. Just
    because I use a Helvetica for stationary because the client can't afford a Bree
    doesn't mean I'm doing them a disservice. It means I'm being realistic about their
    budget.\r\n\r\nExpensive fonts don't lend individuality to a project. Creative
    design does.\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-12 03:32:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Expensive fonts don\u2019t lend individuality to a project. Creative
    design does.</em>\r\n\r\nThat may be true for you, but lesser mortals don't hit
    a home run every time they step up to the plate :-)"
  created: '2009-02-12 03:52:21'
- author:
    name: khakis_on_fire
    picture: 116702
  body: "@sii and paragraph,\r\n\r\nI work in the internal brand group at [[http://www.redhat.com|Red
    Hat]], so it looks like a regular design job most days (and they do pay us).\r\n\r\nWe've
    done some community-focused design projects (like [[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mhRzkGL82os|this
    one]]) that were released under creative commons, and I try to post doodles and
    sketches on my own [[http://www.libbylevi.com/oftheweek.htm|site]], too (well,
    i used to, but I've gotten slack recently, and my scanner broke, so that doesn't
    help). As far as type, we try to use the Liberation family (which is under the
    GPL, and commissioned) for day-to-day use, but use Interstate for the brand.\r\n\r\nSo
    I completely understand the need for balance between free and paid, and using
    the right stuff at the right time (and getting paid when you need to be). But
    I think it would be incredibly interesting to see what would happen in an open
    source type experiment."
  created: '2009-02-12 03:55:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Expensive fonts don\u2019t lend individuality to a project. Creative design
    does.\r\n\r\nExpensive, inexpensive or free, a font can give a project its entire
    individuality. And at the very least, a font gives any project some of its individuality.
    BTW, <em>creative design</em> is exactly where good fonts come from.\r\n\r\n>
    getting paid when you need to be\r\n\r\nWhat a strange, strange concept.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-12 04:01:30'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Libby, thanks for the explanation. You see, some of us do not have any other
    income than that from designing/selling fonts, and that makes us a bit sensitive,
    nay, touchy. I do give away some fonts for free but honestly, I only do it to
    get traffic to my other fonts. I simply cannot afford to spend, say, three months
    on an open source font. I wish I could though.
  created: '2009-02-12 04:45:39'
- author:
    name: Scott Thatcher
    picture: 111324
  body: "I've read both recent threads related to open-source typefaces with interest
    over the last few days, and I thought I'd submit a few thoughts from the point
    of view of an open-source user and type enthusiast.\r\n\r\nLooking back at the
    development of my interest in typography, the availability of a few high-quality
    typefaces released under an open license was very important to me. Because use
    of open source software has made me much more conscious of why its important to
    respect licenses, if there weren't a few open source fonts I could use, edit and
    play with with a clear conscience, I would never have learned enough to value
    (and pay for) other typefaces.\r\n\r\nHaving said that, I'd tend to agree that
    the open source world has (nearly?) enough typefaces to fill the necessary niches
    for routine, everyday use and to allow users to have some choice. It would be
    great to have more, but I don't see that as being the best possible way to ask
    type designers to become involved in open source projects--for all the reasons
    already mentioned.\r\n\r\nI was happy to see the discussion move in the direction
    of teaching and critique. The fact that I have been able to learn as much as I
    have by reading this forum and other sources has been something I've really felt
    thankful for.\r\n\r\nIf I were to ask for anything for free from the community
    of type designers here, it might simply be to help keep the wiki page on \"good\"
    libre fonts current.  The issue I've run into most often with lists of open source
    fonts is that they are perhaps too long.  Sometimes I can quickly judge that a
    typeface is not yet ready for use, but other times it would be nice to have a
    second opinion or a bit of commentary along the lines of \"Decent for serious
    use,\" \"Won't embarrass you in general, but stay away from the old-style figures,\"
    or \"it has a free license, but it's an unethical copy of someone else's work.\"\r\n\r\nAs
    a concrete example, it would be interesting to look at the longer list of typefaces
    listed in the [[http://www.geocities.com/hartke01/|first \"see also\" link]] of
    the \"Good Libre Fonts\" wiki page and discuss whether any of them could be mentioned
    in the [[http://dev.typophile.com/node/18207|Typophile wiki]] itself. I know that
    even the time for critique or comment is valuable, and I don't mean to suggest
    that I believe anyone is obligated to make such an effort. I'm merely trying to
    offer my perspective on the type of contribution that I would especially value.\r\n\r\nAny
    thoughts?\r\n\r\nst"
  created: '2009-02-12 06:39:51'
- author:
    name: chadilaksono
    picture: 116827
  body: "@Thomas Phinney \r\nI tried sending you a message off the forum but there
    was an error with your email address.\r\n\r\nAnyway, you left a comment earlier
    about some suggestions for improving Junction. I think that'd be swell. Right
    now Haley Fiege is helping us doing some expansions to the Junction face, filling
    in the missing characters. When she's done she will be posting it here for some
    critique. \r\n\r\nIn the mean time if you have specific comments or suggestions,
    I'm open to hear them, please don't hesitate to drop me a line.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\nCaroline"
  created: '2009-02-12 10:36:52'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "So many words, so few specifications.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-02-12 12:37:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Caroline, why wait? You should put up what you have ASAP, otherwise Haley's
    work might be partly wasted (if it needs modifications based on overall feature
    changes, such as stroke contrast, proportions, or a bunch of other things). People
    -especially newbies- often put up very preliminary work-in-progress to mine our
    help from the get-go. A very good recent example is http://typophile.com/node/50670
    and now it's all the way here: http://typophile.com/node/53395\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-12 15:12:23'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Oh. Speaking from the newbie's perspective, I agree wholeheartedly. In the
    various stages of working on the design Hrant mentioned, the Typophiles' feedback
    has indeed been extremely beneficial and educational (and enjoyable) \u2013 great
    input for thought and work, if not always \"easy\" \u2013 but then type design
    isn't. And the experts on the Critique boards are impressively helpful and inspiring.
    I'd probably still stick in that mud of the first sketches if it wasn't for them.
    \r\nGo for it, Caroline."
  created: '2009-02-12 17:38:41'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "I'd like to chime in.\r\n\r\nI come from the software development side and
    I have written both closed and open source projects, some of which were/are in
    use by good few millions users. So I feel like I am qualified to comment on the
    subject :-)\r\n\r\nIn short - don't focus on the ideology of the open/free software,
    look at the licensing models. Some of them are very much applicable to the typeface
    design/licensing business.\r\n\r\nSpecifically, simple dual licensing approach
    - <em>free for personal use, paid for commercial use</em> - is definitely worth
    looking at. \r\n\r\nIt may sound like an honour system and it may seem like a
    hopelessly dumb idea at first. Surprisingly, it works and it works <em>really</em>
    well. \r\n\r\nIt grants an access to fully functional product, lets people play
    with it and those who stay with it and <em>can pay</em> end up buying it. If they
    cannot pay now, they are still likely to pay later. Those who wouldn't pay ever,
    would've stolen the product anyhow, regardless of the licensing model. \r\n\r\nEssentially,
    you are not losing any qualified buyers, and you are acquiring those who want
    to try before buying and <em>you are establishing a great deal of goodwill</em>.
    It all adds up and makes the model work against all odds.\r\n\r\nIf you are in
    a position to experiment with the typeface licensing, just try it. Try offering
    a selected typeface under this sort of license and see what happens to the revenues.\r\n\r\nAlex\r\n\r\nPS.
    Incidentally, I think that giving a typeface away for free will NOT booster sales.
    That typeface either works for a specific project or it doesn't. In former case
    there's very little incentive to buy the full set. In latter case things are not
    much different from how they are now, it has no effect on sales.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-12 21:07:08'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "<cite>PS. Incidentally, I think that giving a typeface away for free will
    NOT booster sales. That typeface either works for a specific project or it doesn\u2019t.
    In former case there\u2019s very little incentive to buy the full set. In latter
    case things are not much different from how they are now, it has no effect on
    sales.</cite>\r\n\r\nI don't know what this is based on but I couldn't agree less.
    Giving away free typefaces lured about a million unique visitors to my site last
    year. A percentage of that also downloaded my free fonts at MyFonts and a percentage
    of that also bought the complete typeface. It <strong>did</strong> affect sales.
    In fact MyFonts awarded me for \"the year\u2019s best marketing strategy\"*.\r\n\r\n*
    source: [[http://new.myfonts.com/newsletters/sp/200901.html| MyFonts Top 10 fonts
    of 2008]] (scroll a bit down till Museo & Museo Sans)."
  created: '2009-02-12 22:19:44'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "@Jos - Mmmm ... Museo Sans. I got a copy of it just yesterday, imagine that
    :) \r\n\r\nThe value of driving more uniques to your website is quite obvious
    and this should certainly have at least some effect on cumulative sales. However
    do you have any numbers to tell how the sales-per-unique of Museo itself were
    affected ? I'm just trying to understand if giving away a couple of styles does
    in fact boost the sales of the whole set. My gut feeling is that it doesn't.\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-12 22:46:12'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "I have to say I'm glad this turned into a seemingly productive conversation.\r\n\r\nHaley,
    yes, it's a bold statement. It's also a generalization, and I'm sure there are
    plenty of worthwhile exceptions, and worthwhile clients. As a rule though, free
    / open source fonts are not going to bring you a position of strength as a differentiated
    agency (or designer).\r\n\r\nIf your client is a worthwhile cause, you could readily
    find half a dozen type designers here who would offer a license to a client who
    truly is worthwhile and can't afford the license fee."
  created: '2009-02-12 23:16:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Alex, related:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/10206\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-12 23:44:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Jos, it would be very instructive if you could kindly share the numbers from
    your experience. Most of all: what was the increase in sales after you started
    giving stuff away?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-13 01:09:05'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "I'm not going to share numbers here but I can assure you that giving away
    a free style always boosts font sales. Many times I've had a family with flat
    sales, I make one style free and it turned from zero seller to at least an moderate
    seller. I've been doing free styles on MyFonts for about 6 years and it's, well
    it's not science but that's been my experience. One free style* boosts sales,
    sometimes rather significantly. I wouldn't keep making styles free otherwise.\r\n\r\nAs
    for OpenSource, I don't think it's good a good business strategy for me. A lot
    of my income is from non-free font styles, customization and special licensing.
    I don't see how OpenSource wouldn't kill off those revenue streams.\r\n\r\n* however,
    if the family is too small, it seems to have no effect. For example, one free
    style in a family of 4 doesn't seem to promote more sales."
  created: '2009-02-13 01:57:47'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "@Jos @typodermic - i would also suggest that part of your success is due
    to the paid weights still being reasonably priced. i know i have made buying decisions
    based on cost before, and unless i see a clear benefit will often pick a lower-cost
    alternative (keeping in mind that i will also pay top-dollar for quality faces
    when i need to).\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-13 03:32:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> one free style in a family of 4 doesn\u2019t seem to promote more sales.\r\n\r\nUseful
    insight - thank you!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-13 04:23:43'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "<cite>Jos, it would be very instructive if you could kindly share the numbers
    from your experience. Most of all: what was the increase in sales after you started
    giving stuff away?</cite>\r\n\r\nI did some calculations. Over 2008 I had an order
    conversion of 3.3% meaning from the 100 customers 3,3 bought something from me.
    That ranched from a single user/single Anivers weight license of $9.95 to a 200
    user Museo family license). On average every customer spended $1.36. Can't answer
    on the *increase* in sales after I gave my fonts away, because I've always done
    it like this.\r\n\r\n<cite> one free style in a family of 4 doesn\u2019t seem
    to promote more sales.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt seems to work well for my Anivers family.
    It hasn't left the [[http://new.myfonts.com/bestsellers/|MyFonts Best Sellers]]
    list since it was introduced."
  created: '2009-02-13 09:53:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Sorry to be pedantic but it's boost or bolster, as in support or strengthen.\r\n\r\nNick
    Cooke"
  created: '2009-02-13 11:09:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think Jos's marketing strategy is far different than making an opensource
    face. Jos's web traffic began and ended with sites selling his work so it was
    like a bakery giving away free samples in the store and enticing you to purchase.
    Clearly, this worked for Jos. It established him in the market. \r\nThis is marketing,
    not donation.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-02-13 16:16:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Jos, thanks for sharing! One question:\r\n\r\n> from the 100 customers 3,3
    bought something from me.\r\n> On average every customer spended $1.36.\r\n\r\nExactly
    what does \"customer\" mean there?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-13 16:35:23'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "Chris, that's exactly how I'm running my business at the moment, but I didn't
    think things through from the beginning. I started giving away my fonts because
    I thought they weren't really worth selling (for me that was).\r\n\r\nHrant, at
    MyFonts there are customers and orders. If you come by on a Friday, download a
    free font, come back on Monday and purchase one weight, you're still one customer.
    ;-)"
  created: '2009-02-13 19:30:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But what makes a \"customer\"?\r\nVisiting, registering, downloading something,
    or what?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-13 19:53:30'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "A customer is a person or company that has to register at MyFonts. \r\nThen
    he/she/company can order free and/or paid fonts/typefaces.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cvs_4931.jpg]"
  created: '2009-02-13 20:06:16'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: FWIW - 3% is a pretty good conversion rate. At least if considered in a context
    of a software trialware licensing model.
  created: '2009-02-13 20:48:45'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: Yes... I know... and I'm pretty proud of my figures.
  created: '2009-02-13 20:52:55'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "@Scott: You wrote <cite>\"Having said that, I\u2019d tend to agree that the
    open source world has (nearly?) enough typefaces to fill the necessary niches
    for routine, everyday use and to allow users to have some choice.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    disagree rather strongly. Personally, I could live with two typefaces for everyday
    use, if they were the right two. But the open source world doesn't have two such
    typefaces that meet my requirements.\r\n\r\nFor example, I consider it a necessity
    for routine everyday use to have a decent quality sans family with at least a
    couple of dozen members (varying weight and width with true italics). If the primary
    intent is for on-screen usage, it should be more of a humanist design than grotesque
    or neo-grotesque.\r\n\r\nAlso, I'd want a serif face to be of high quality, and
    have at least three weights with matching italics. I'd also want it to also have
    optical size variants.\r\n\r\nI'm pretty sure that nothing in the open source
    world meets those criteria for either a serif or a sans family. Plus I'd want
    real small caps and oldstyle figures on top of all that stuff above.... Oh well.\r\n\r\n@Caroline:
    Sorry about the email problem. Somehow when I got rid of my old Adobe email address
    in the Typophile DB it ended up recording my email as being \"Thomas Phinney\"...
    weird that, fixed now. Anyway, I'll be in touch. Or should we just start a public
    crit thread in the appropriate forum here?\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-02-14 04:23:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> A customer is a person or company that has to register at MyFonts.\r\n\r\nAnd
    I guess a customer of <em>exljbris</em> is specifically a MyFonts registrant who
    has received something from you - either a free font or a paid font. And 3.3%
    of people who have gotten something from exljbris have paid some amount at some
    point.\r\n\r\nPreviously:\r\n> Can\u2019t answer on the *increase* in sales after
    I gave\r\n> my fonts away, because I\u2019ve always done it like this.\r\n\r\nThe
    way you define/count customers, does it make sense to suggest that an increase
    in the conversion rate validates the strategy of giving fonts away (in the absence
    of before/after numbers)?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-14 05:15:38'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.southparkstudios.com/clips/151040\">Step 1: Release
    fonts under open-source license\r\nStep 2: ?\r\nStep 3: Profit</a>"
  created: '2009-02-14 16:47:33'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/shweeeeet_3981.JPG]\r\n\r\nThere's a
    step missing, step 0, the spec? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-14 16:51:03'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "Ahem. I think it's worth clarifying the terminology a bit.\r\n\r\nThere is
    an \"open source\" licensing, there is a \"freeware\" licensing and there is also
    a \"free\" (or \"libre\") licensing. Fonts can only be distributed under 2nd and
    3rd. The term \"open source fonts\" doesn't make any sense. \r\n\r\nHere's why.\r\n\r\nThe
    \"freeware\" is simply a no-charge product. The license doesn't govern if/how
    the source code is distributed, and it typically prohibits copying/changes/etc.\r\n\r\nThe
    \"open source software\" is a software that has its human-readable (source) code
    available to the public. The license may not allow changes, but more often than
    not it does allow them. But it virtually always comes from a \"look what a beautiful
    thing I wrote\" variety, typically bundled with an altruistic \"take it if you
    want it\" clause.\r\n\r\nThe \"free software\" (which is an established term)
    is an ideology, which <em>demands</em> that all software be open-source and released
    under permissive licenses. Its \"liberty or death\" stance is inherently anti-commercial
    in a sense that you cannot make money directly off it (even though some people
    are trying to argue otherwise).\r\n\r\nAlso, for what it's worth, the open-source
    crowd has a tendency to look down on the free software activists, specifically
    on the GNU Public License (GPL) adepts.\r\n\r\nIn any case, fonts are already
    <em>open source</em> by their very nature, but they are distributed under restrictive
    licenses that forbid free copying and/or changes. So what is being requested is
    the make them <em>free</em> in an ideological sense.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-14 18:06:27'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "<cite>And I guess a customer of exljbris is specifically a MyFonts registrant
    who has received something from you - either a free font or a paid font. </cite>\r\n\r\nCorrect.
    (I call it \"customer\" because MyFonts does so).\r\n\r\n<cite>The way you define/count
    customers, does it make sense to suggest that an increase in the conversion rate
    validates the strategy of giving fonts away (in the absence of before/after numbers)?</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    find it hard to say what validates my strategy. I've always given fonts away and
    it is only from March last year that I offer paid fonts. To be honest I've never
    done conversion rate calculations before. I only track my daily and monthly revenues."
  created: '2009-02-15 11:23:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Jos, I think it is safe to say that your practice of giving away a font weight
    drives traffic to your site or to your area on Myfonts. More traffic equals more
    potential customers. Eventually, enough of these become paying customers and repeat
    customers who refer other paying customers. You will likely see the fruit of your
    efforts in a year or so when the wave returns to shore. In that case, you better
    have some new fonts there ready and waiting for the swans of Capistrano! :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-02-15 17:14:50'
- author:
    name: cschroeppel
    picture: 116864
  body: "I mainly agree with Schrijvers take on the issue. However, fonts could be
    a lot cheaper though if more people would buy them, without any loss of income
    for font designers. \r\n\r\nWhy do people decide not to buy fonts? For example,
    imagine you buy a font and then discover that it does not have a certain character
    or that the character is rendered in a form that you or people who judge your
    text do not like. People who, for example, write a thesis, have no idea of how
    a font encoding works or how characters are classified, so they stick with Computer
    Modern and do not take the risk of buying a font that they cannot test. Some might
    even fear they would buy something that they are unable to install correctly.
    \r\n\r\nAlso, it would be a good idea if fonts with some intentional errors (e.g.
    some holes in a few letters) would be distributed freely. The the end-user could
    set his or her text in a number of different free fonts, and, after deciding which
    one fits the text and the purpose best, buy the commercial version without the
    errors."
  created: '2009-02-16 17:50:11'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: '@ Chris: Hey! I just saw a few swallows... :-)'
  created: '2009-02-17 08:55:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL!!!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-02-17 17:10:33'
- author:
    name: merkri
  body: "Jos it's great to see you posting.\r\n\r\nI guess one thing that's been on
    my mind a lot lately is similar to what epsilicon posted:\r\n\r\n<em>Specifically,
    simple dual licensing approach - free for personal use, paid for commercial use
    - is definitely worth looking at.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm wondering why there isn't more
    dual licensing--e.g., one for personal or noncommercial use, and the other for
    noncommercial use.\r\n\r\nI also am wondering a lot lately if there were a lot
    more flexibility in such licensing, if that would increase demand. For example,
    there's some beautiful typefaces/fonts out there that cost $500-1000 US easily,
    something that the average person would never buy. It may be reasonable from a
    commercial perspective, but not for commercial use. If they were to price that
    at more like $5-10 for noncommercial use (not getting into issues of free), would
    that drive up demand enough to actually increase profit more than what would be
    otherwise? \r\n\r\nMy impression is that the reason why there's so much demand
    for quality free type is because it has increasingly become something that individuals
    pay attention to for noncommercial reasons--e.g., to write school reports or letters
    to family, etc. I'm wondering if the pricing structure isn't reflecting that.\r\n\r\nI
    think there's something to be said for free/Free type regardless (there's a special
    advertising benefit to free that can't be topped, and also pro bono considerations),
    but I sort of wonder if pricing and licensing structures in general could be changed
    in many cases. Free/free type would be part of that, but also extremely low-cost
    noncommercial licensing, etc."
  created: '2009-02-19 17:11:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the average person would never buy.\r\n\r\nWhy does the \"average person\"
    need to be able to afford\r\neverything out there? That's a very consumerist stance.\r\nIs
    culture supposed to be cheap?\r\n\r\nIn contra to the \"reduce cost to increase
    units sold\"\r\nargument, there are at least two very good points:\r\n1) The more
    you charge for your product, the higher prestige you have, so the more likely
    that people will pay more in the future for other things you make. Your products
    acquire a cachet. If you've been selling $10 fonts for years, your customer base
    will balk if you try to move up to $100; and the people who would pay $100 for
    a font will hold the $10 years against you.\r\n2) The fewer units of a font are
    out there, the less potential for illegal copies. In fact if you charge enough
    for something the customer will become quite protective of it. You can even cross
    over into a price range where immediate family ties aren't even strong enough!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-19 17:30:54'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I\u2019m wondering why there isn\u2019t more dual licensing\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nBecause
    designers don\u2019t trust commercial users to not just acquire a cheap/free license.
    Given how many designers don\u2019t pay for any of their commercial type, this
    mistrust seems justified.\r\n\r\n<cite>\u2026something that the average person
    would never buy.</cite>\r\n\r\nMost of those fonts aren\u2019t designed for the
    average person. How many average people need the huge character sets and variety
    of weights provided by H&FJ fonts? Or the expensive book and newspaper fonts sold
    by Font Bureau that really only look right printed with a web press on certain
    papers? Average users are probably better off sticking with fonts that were designed
    with them in mind. \r\n\r\n<cite>If they were to price that at more like $5-10\u2026would
    that drive up demand\u2026?</cite>\r\n\r\nI think that you\u2019re overestimating
    how many people purchase any given font. Most fonts don\u2019t have the popularity
    of Gotham. If a font only sells five licenses a month, and slashing the prices
    doubles sales, that\u2019s still only ten licenses.\r\n\r\nThe only designer I
    know of who pursues this kind of tiered licensing (excluding student discounts)
    is Chank, and he seems to be happy with how it has worked out (based on his posts
    in other threads). But he also has a large catalog of inexpensive typefaces\u2014very
    few other type designers are in such a position. There are a handful of other
    foundries with similar catalogs, but they all seem to be doing just fine without
    mucking around with their business models, so there\u2019s not much incentive
    to change. "
  created: '2009-02-19 18:09:35'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "re: dual licensing, I think the issue is that there's not much financial
    point in doing. Personal use people aren't likely buying fonts anyways, so there's
    not much to be gained by offering them a free license.\r\n\r\nI will say as a
    consumer of type, I've bought faces recently on a whim based on a price point
    that appealed to me. I picked up a few DStype faces when they went on sale, and
    grabbed Jame's own Recovery. \r\n\r\nThese were faces I bought for no real specific
    purpose/client. \r\n\r\nSo, there could be a nice 'impulse buy' price point if
    there are graphic designers that do, on occasion, impulse shop.\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-19 19:25:29'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "i impulse shop.\r\n\r\ni got [[http://www.typetrust.com/fonts/font.php?id=ODE2|angel
    script]] just released by typetrust cause it was new, on special and appealed
    to me, but i don't currently have an projects that it would suit...\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-20 01:03:58'
- author:
    name: Scott Thatcher
    picture: 111324
  body: "<cite>I disagree rather strongly. Personally, I could live with two typefaces
    for everyday use, if they were the right two. But the open source world doesn\u2019t
    have two such typefaces that meet my requirements.</cite>\r\n\r\nSorry! I didn't
    mean to denigrate the everyday needs of anyone or over-sell the capability of
    the current collection of Open typefaces.  I tend to think in terms of what would
    be needed to make an open source operating system like Linux a usable platform
    in general (compared to, say, Windows right out of the box), rather than what
    would be needed to enable really good typography.\r\n\r\nIf I could add something
    to my wish list, it <em>would</em> be for more depth in a few typefaces, as you
    suggest, rather than greater overall variety. While the shortcomings of Computer
    Modern have been discussed elsewhere, just having that example of a family with
    optical sizes, small caps, etc. was something that really opened my eyes to typography,
    and it would be great to introduce students or others to the same ideas.\r\n\r\nst"
  created: '2009-02-20 04:08:57'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "@Scott:\r\n\r\nWith the addition of the new \"ClearType\" fonts, Windows
    has plenty of typefaces that look decent on screen and have small caps, oldstyle
    figures, and decent western language coverage. What it still lacks is having many
    typefaces that go much beyond the most basic four-member family. Arial is close,
    with ten fonts, but I'm not a big fan of the neo-grotesque genre, so it doesn't
    do a lot for me.\r\n\r\nAnyway, I think I mostly agree with you.  :)\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-02-20 19:46:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...Windows has plenty of typefaces...</em>\r\n\r\nBut they're all the
    same. No slabs, no geometrics, no small or big x-height variety, no extreme weights,
    no retro scripts.\r\nThank goodness!--as that leaves the door open for type foundries
    to fill those niches.\r\nIt's no coincidence that the niches left untouched by
    the big bundlers are where the action is in the type market."
  created: '2009-02-20 20:34:23'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I agree that there is more uniformity among the ClearType fonts than I'd
    personally like.\r\n\r\nBut... you think the only action is where the big bundlers
    haven't gone? I disagree. Apple bundles Zapfino, Adobe bundled Bickham Script
    for a while, and IIRC Microsoft bundles a bunch of script faces as well (with
    MS Office, if not with the OS). Yet script fonts are still a major retail area.\r\n\r\nNow
    that being said, of course what gets bundled with OSes and applications affects
    retail sales, and I'm not claiming otherwise.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-02-20 21:22:54'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "@James: \r\n\r\n> <em>If a font only sells five licenses a month, and slashing
    the prices doubles sales, that\u2019s still only ten licenses.</em>\r\n\r\nNot
    to say you a wrong, but have a look at [[http://arstechnica.com/gaming/news/2009/02/left-4-dead-sees-3000-jump-in-sales-on-steam.ars|this]]
    - a discount of 50% generated 3000% increase in sales.\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\n@all:
    the whole point of non-commercial licenses is not to allow homeusers to write
    beautiful term papers, but rather to allow professional designers to play with
    a typeface before purchasing it for a specific project. It is a form of a \"preview
    license\" more than anything else.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-21 06:24:20'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>but rather to allow professional designers to play with a typeface
    before purchasing it for a specific project. It is a form of a \u201Cpreview license\u201D
    more than anything else.</em>\r\n\r\nUnderware did this with Dolly; there was
    a CD in the printed specimen with the full typeface on it, intented for testing
    purposes before purchasing a license. I don't know if this worked for them, though."
  created: '2009-02-22 04:35:26'
- author:
    name: merkri
  body: "<em>Most of those fonts aren\u2019t designed for the average person. How
    many average people need the huge character sets and variety of weights provided
    by H&FJ fonts? Or the expensive book and newspaper fonts sold by Font Bureau that
    really only look right printed with a web press on certain papers? Average users
    are probably better off sticking with fonts that were designed with them in mind.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    guess what I'm wondering is if there is an increased demand for free fonts, and
    if that is true, I'm wondering if it is because the average user is becoming more
    \"type aware\", if that makes sense. I suspect that bundles with Microsoft Windows,
    Adobe, etc. has increased awareness of type, creating some demand that wasn't
    there before. \r\n\r\n<em>You</em> may think average users are better off sticking
    with non-premium fonts, but that's really for them to decide, and if the demand
    is there, it's there.\r\n\r\nMaybe it's not, but that's an empirical question.\r\n\r\nThere's
    also the position that a prominent black market in any area is often a reflection
    of the legitimate market being overpriced (there's an economist who came up with
    this idea, I just can't remember who). That is, if there is demand enough to create
    a sizable black market, that demand could be channeled into legitimate sales if
    the price were low enough.\r\n\r\nI'm not suggesting that anyone do anything to
    lose money; on the contrary--I'm wondering if overall profit would increase if
    prices were decreased, through increased sales. There's got to be a \"sweet spot\"
    in terms of pricing.\r\n\r\nNow, there's something to be said about pricing into
    prestige, but that's a different issue entirely.\r\n\r\nWhat I'm curious is if
    anyone has done an experiment, where they've taken a [good] higher-priced font
    and temporarily slashed the price by a ridiculous amount and seen what happens.
    I'm also curious about the experiences of individuals who have offered dual licenses
    (anyone else, other than Chank).\r\n\r\n@epsilicon: I saw that news thing about
    Valve sales. That's a perfect example of what I'm talking about."
  created: '2009-02-23 06:46:56'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Specifically, simple dual licensing approach - free for personal use, paid
    for commercial use - is definitely worth looking at.\"\r\n\r\nLooking at? This
    the de facto standard folks. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-02-23 13:00:12'
- author:
    name: Schrijver
    picture: 116831
  body: "A very interesting discussion this, the economical potential of alternative
    licensing strategies!\r\nSorry it took some long to get back on this.\r\nFor anybody
    who is interested in why I am so interested in all these matters all of a sudden,
    I posted a bio on my user page which I also [[http://typophile.com/node/55127|posted
    to my user blog]].\r\n\r\n<cite>They don\u2019t feel any need to enable anything
    seems like DRM to them, and believe that it\u2019s up to the font developers to
    come up with a viable business model in the face of @font-face font linking to
    desktop fonts on web servers.</cite>\r\n@Thomas thanks a lot for your extensive
    replies. I did not know W3C was so opiniated on the matter, and if that is the
    case they are not doing anyone a favor, neither type foundries nor users.\r\n@Joe
    I think your assesments on changing business models and conflicting statements
    are really accurate. Apologies if I steered the discussion into the direction
    of the at-ff debate which presumably has already been extensively debated over
    here.\r\n\r\nAlso another question I would like to react to is popping up in this
    thread: <em>What does the open source world expect from the type world, what are
    the possibilities for typographic collaboration?</em>, but as it seems to be unrelated
    to the main direction the discussion is taking. I posted [[http://typophile.com/node/55128|a
    new thread related to this question]].\r\n\r\nJust 2 things on this:\r\n\r\n@Scott
    T\r\n<cite>If I were to ask for anything for free from the community of type designers
    here, it might simply be to help keep the wiki page on \u201Cgood\u201D libre
    fonts current.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou could see that the other way around: if there\u2019s
    any easy way for the open source community to get the world of professional type
    design involved, is to keep them posted on the developments in the foss world,
    by contributing to the wiki for example.\r\n\r\n@Quincunx\r\n<cite>While most
    people here are not willing to give away their livelihood, they have shown to
    be more than willing to give critique and tips on type designs on the Crit-board.
    Doesn\u2019t this \u2014 the sharing of very specific knowledge \u2014 count as
    a \u2019good deed\u2019 as well?</cite>\r\n\r\nIf that does not count as a good
    deed, I do not know what would?\r\n\r\nSo,\r\nWhat alternate licensing methods
    have economic potential?\r\nBecause whether the W3C has been acting responsibly
    or not, IMHO that is the situation you are confronted with: the need to find a
    new business model. Because fonts for the screen can only get more important,
    and therefore the need for the larger distribution of type faces will remain,
    and the related pitfalls of piracy etc. will not grow less (IMHO).\r\n\r\nIMHO
    these are the same problems digital society poses for all of us who create for
    a living, whether it\u2019s musicians or artists or writers or type designers
    or programmers. The ease of perfect digital duplication makes the value of the
    <strong>things</strong> we create much less apparent to the general public.\r\n\r\nWhy
    I think FOSS is much more of an interesting model than you would be inclined to
    think initially: one of the interesting characteristics of the FOSS world, is
    the way in which they managed to make the transition from an economic model that
    has its basis in selling goods, to a model that is focused on selling services.\r\n\r\nIMHO
    the most logical question for anyone to ask who sells goods that are not physical,
    is: in what form can I market my skills so that I do not provide goods, but services?
    ([[Buzzword in Software]]) This might seem a far stretch, but IMHO first and foremost
    you sell your skills regarding <em>Type</em>: which means you can question whether
    selling the result of the application of these skills as typefaces is the form
    that is the most promising approach you can take right now.\r\n\r\n@epsilicon
    it is great to read your clarifications from the inside:\r\n<cite>Also, for what
    it\u2019s worth, the open-source crowd has a tendency to look down on the free
    software activists, specifically on the GNU Public License (GPL) adepts.</cite>\r\n\r\nIMHO
    this is the sort of informed voice that the discourse need. \r\nBecause the orthodox
    minority is extremely vocal. I myself completely identified foss with the GPL
    rhetoric and spent a lot of intellectual energy in thinking up negations for these
    reasonings, only to found out they were not broadly supported in the foss community
    at all.\r\n\r\n@epsilicon I would say most Open Source developers work on both
    open and closed software, no? And make their living writing software?\r\n\r\nWhich
    IIRC @James has been pointing out in the previous thread on the subject.\r\n\r\nI
    find it super-irritating that the socioeconomic challenges the digital world presents
    are clouded by the rhetoric of \u2018freedom\u2019 and \u2018protest\u2019, as
    put forth on the one hand by platforms like Pirate Thingey in defending the peoples
    right to be apathic criminal morons, and on the other hand by the orthodox foss-activist
    stance proposing the abolition of proprietary software.\r\n\r\nThis does not contribute
    to an understanding of how software and information freedom are a) benificial
    to end users b) able to constitute a viable economic model. I think both are true,
    because as an end user of both proprietary and open source software and proprietary
    and open source digital culture (books, type, music, etc.) , I feel on the whole
    the quality and diversity of the supply has increased. And that there is a viable
    economic model is shown by the fact that so many open source developers earn money:
    they do not do so by selling their software, so apparently they found different
    models.\r\n\r\nIMHO what happened is that the programming community managed to
    make a fundamental shift from being focused on the intricacies of code, to also
    taking into account the community that you are catering to, and actively promoting
    and hyping yourself.\r\n\r\nI still haven\u2019t really understood when this shift
    happened that programmers stopped representing themselves as autistic lovers of
    word jokes and the hobbit, and started propagating an image of being loft-inhabiting
    macbook wielding aesthetes.\r\n\r\nI say representing themselves, because I don\u2019t
    think programmers themselves have changed all that much. As far as I can tell
    they have always been a social bunch interacting with each other on forums like
    this. But the ones that managed to package their activities and skills in a package
    attractive  to the outside world have been successful exactly because their once
    esoteric activity had become the focus of larger social scrutiny.\r\n\r\nAnd I
    think it is the same with type. That there is all this discourse and debate now,
    IMHO has to do with the fact that there is an unprecedented amount of people who
    deal with type in their daily life, just as the web has made a great amount of
    people aware of the concept of coding.\r\n\r\n<cite>My impression is that the
    reason why there\u2019s so much demand for quality free type is because it has
    increasingly become something that individuals pay attention to for noncommercial
    reasons\u2014e.g., to write school reports or letters to family, etc. I\u2019m
    wondering if the pricing structure isn\u2019t reflecting that.</cite>\r\n\r\nIMHO
    lnteraction with the community that uses you product has always been part of economic
    success: it\u2019s what constitutes the community that's changed IMHO. In a traditional
    publishing process, the only costumers of typefaces are printing companies, and
    apart from them the only individuals with an awareness / opinion on type are those
    in the graphic industry and designers.\r\n\r\nThe shift to DTP represents the
    first time type gets detached from the printing industry. Then still, it's mainly
    the graphic design community that has an awareness of type. It's the rise of social
    media that really changed this situation. Reading letters on a screen might not
    get you thinking about the font they're set in, but when you start publishing
    a blog you'll definitely start thinking about type and typefaces, because you'll
    be conveying your own content in it, and you can't leave this up to a designer
    or a printer as you would have ten years ago. \r\n\r\nThis means the community
    of users has suddenly become many multitudes larger. And in one way or another,
    these people want to feel involved with this product. And I think any sustainable
    business model should somehow be able to meet this need.\r\n\r\nAnd I think it
    is the same with type. That there is all this discourse and debate now, IMHO has
    to do with the fact that there is an unprecedented amount of people who deal with
    type in their daily life, just as the web has made a great amount of people aware
    of the concept of coding.\r\n\r\nI think the main challenge for the type world
    is to let go of this distrust for the amateur, and actively involve him in the
    experience of buying type.\r\n\r\nThe emphasis on community interaction might
    seem a present day clich\xE9, but I think this also an undervalued aspect of open
    source. \r\nThey embrace users demand for a <em>costum</em> experience. Open source
    licences are a way of explicitly stating this intent: it\u2019s yours, you are
    free to tinker with it\u2014and I value your feedback.\r\n\r\nThat is not so much
    a practical difference with proprietary software, as much as it represents a shift
    in focus. Like @si pointed out in the previous thread, if you mail the creator
    of a retail font and mail errors you came across he will probably fix it for you
    as well. An open license just reassures you that the odds are with the <em>products</em>
    and the <em>user</em>. If the original author starts pursuing other interests,
    somebody else is free to take over.\r\n\r\n@hrant\r\nOf course an amateur or enthousiast
    should not need to be able to afford everything. But IMHO he should be able to
    afford something, and that something should be <em>very</em> good. I also see
    your point in how revenue is often increased by creating scarcity. But creating
    scarcity with digital files is a lot harder than it is with, say, fur-coats: working
    with digital files in itself implies the constant creation of perfect copies of
    this artefact. Also, this reasoning makes it sound like design is about creating
    desirable artefacts. Arguably it is to some extent, but at the same time, it provides
    solutions for people. And I believe it is nonsense to state a direct relationship
    between the quality of the solution and the cost of the solution to end users.\r\n\r\nIt
    makes sense if very specific and elaborate type design solutions to specific and
    elaborate problems are very expensive. At the same time, designer skills are arguably
    of the most importance when they are able to address the amount of many people
    with a simple solution. That is an old-skool idea, whether you look at it as a
    social responsibility (Bauhaus et al) or an economical opportunity (Henry Ford
    et al).\r\n\r\nBut before anyone decides I am just stating the obvious, I think
    there is a tendency within the type community which negatively affects the possibility
    for the latter solution (cheap but good). This connects to the reasons I felt
    such a negative reaction to the aforementioned typographica article: I feel to
    a degree a misplaced sort of elitism playing a part here.\r\n\r\n@Thomas I respectfully
    disagree to these assertions:\r\n<cite>1) These guys love *good* letters and typography.
    Most of them hate crap. Their standards of what\u2019s \u201Cgood\u201D and what\u2019s
    \u201Ccrap\u201D may be different than yours.</cite>\r\n<cite>Whether or not you
    agree, understand that folks who think this way (including me) believe that the
    percentage of utter junk and even moderate junk is much higher among free fonts
    than among retail fonts from vendors/designers with a reputation for quality.</cite>\r\n<cite>Not
    allowing their fonts to be used on the internet without any protections? (\u2026)
    They believe that this would reduce people\u2019s willingness to pay for fonts
    and hence employ type designers, and that it is therefore a *threat* to good typography.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    am all for individuals taking themselves and their skills seriously. \r\nAt the
    same time, your merits are for others to judge. If they don\u2019t see your quality
    it is either a) because they are not interested in it (which is their problem)
    or b) you are not succeeding in communicating what you are about (which is your
    problem).\r\n\r\nWhat I find both condescending and narrowminded is the complete
    distrust of the capacity of amateurs or enthousiasts to appreciate quality.\r\n\r\nThe
    outside world might be littered with typographic debris, but that IMHO is not
    the result of people making bad aesthetic decisions: it is the result of the fact
    that a) many people do not care at all about type and typography. This is probably
    the main reason, and is something none of us could change. But at the same time,
    I have the (arguably old fashioned and paternalist) notion that b) many people
    would be able to make convincing aesthetic decisions, yet they have not found
    the means for it yet. That is why I think anyone who cares for culture should
    be propagating it (which I guess is sort of the way culture works anyhow, regardless
    of how you personally feel about propagating your cultural values).\r\n\r\nThis
    is the exact reason why for example the [[http://www.bancomicsans|Comic Sans bashing]]
    meme doesn't make sense to me. You will never reach anyone who actually uses this
    typeface, because they are busy caring about other things. Disliking Comic Sans
    is more or less the first thing any one individual who gets interested in typography
    does.\r\n\r\nNb this might also not be a very novel idea, since [[http://typophile.com/node/12546|this
    typophile wiki guideline]] is making a very similar point.\r\n\r\nAt the same
    time I think the good and crap reasoning shows how much of the type world is still
    using a frame of reference from back in the days when type design only existed
    as a very specific activity of crafting metal typefaces in a very specific context
    of the printing industry. That is the sort of activity that allows easy distinctions
    in quality, and which lends a natural weight to the skilled eye of the professional.\r\n\r\nThe
    amount of contexts where people apply type now makes different values come into
    play: it becomes hard to judge a typeface without knowing the context in which
    it will be used, and <em>fitness for purpose</em> becomes much more important.
    Which leads me to\r\n\r\n<strong>The strawman of the crappy free fonts</strong>\r\n\r\nBecause
    the crappy quality of free fonts seems to be a leitmotif in the discourse.\r\n\r\nBut
    what in itself is so interesting is so interesting in [[http://www.ascendercorp.com/news/web-fonts-study/|the
    observation that most free fonts do not live up to professional standards]]? This
    makes perfect sense, since these fonts represent people busy with their hobby,
    nobody is proposing them as a real alternative to quality type design. As if anyone
    at any time suggested that the quality of freely available fonts was superb, and
    used that as an argument to criticize retail licensing.\r\n<em>\u2014Oh wait.
    Just read that Hakon Lie did just that\u2014 Well, surely, nobody except Hakon
    Lie did that?</em>\r\n\r\nYet why are the retail fonts of higher quality? IMHO
    not because they are retail, but because their licensing model is the licensing
    model preferred by the professional community.\r\n\r\nIf all full time professional
    type designers suddenly change to an economic model in which they exchange their
    fonts for coconuts, the coconut fonts will be a lot better than the would be type
    designs which are either free or paid for with money.\r\n\r\n<strong>Why I think
    the large amount of crap is irrelevant,</strong>\r\n\r\nIs exactly because I trust
    in people\u2019s capacity for aesthetic judgment.\r\n\r\nHas anyone ever seen
    a PhD thesis or similar vernacular document set in a face like this? Even though
    there are thousands of free ones just like him?\r\n\r\nThe only possible application
    for a font like that IMHO is either hobbyism, or a designer who wants to employ
    it for ironic / rhetoric / conceptual effect.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/crapafreefont_5874.png]\r\n\r\n\r\n<strong>So
    what\u2019s the deal then?</strong>\r\n\r\nIMHO the really valuable asset you
    have as a type designer are your skills and your vision. You can use these to
    make typefaces. Which you can sell. This used to make sense because a typeface
    is such a clear embodiment of typographic vision, which makes it a desirable object.\r\n\r\nNow
    this revenue stream has come under threat, because the way you can sell these
    typefaces nowadays is not by selling a large amount of lead, but by selling a
    computer file. And contrary to lead letters, it is * to make perfect copies of
    a computer file. Which makes it very easy to steal them, and since a typeface
    is a desirable thing people will try to do so. At the moment you choose to market
    your work as unique objects, but distribute them as computer files, you condemn
    yourself to all the associated anxiety and drudgery that comes with files being
    very easy to steal.\r\n\r\nBut why should you feel the need to cram your vision
    into this one artefact that can be adequately represented in one simple computer
    file?\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t immediately see a clear alternative. And of course stating
    the problem is far more easy than providing a solution. But I am thinking somewhere
    in these directions:\r\n\r\nHaving a typeface makes sense within the logic of
    mechanical reproduction, which requires predictable and reproducable results.
    It is not necessary in the logic of digital reproduction, where every file can
    be unique, just as every google search is. Why stop with making one file that
    you will have to protect as your golden egg? Any hacker can steal a file, yet
    no hacker can steal your skills. Doesn't it make more sense to just create a thousand
    different files, they'll all exhibit your identity as a designer anyway, because
    you're you?\r\n\r\nI think it is a mistake to make for type designers to so closely
    align their typefaces with the traditional licensing model of \u2018software\u2019
    as a commodity that can be sold. This is an old fashioned model that might be
    fit for a traditional top-down publishing and printing process, but not for the
    digital public space.\r\n\r\nWhy can\u2019t a type designer be like a fashion
    designer, make haute couture costum type which exemplifies your typographic ideals
    and is great to work on, then let your employees turn out minute variation after
    minute variation of your well known style?\r\nAnd why only sell typefaces when
    there is such a large community out there that just wants the name of their blog
    set in great letters? Why can\u2019t you sell words? Letters? Why not experiment
    with [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Micropayment|micropayments]] or other models
    that seek to exploit the potential of the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Long_Tail|Long
    Tail]]?\r\n\r\nEric\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-23 17:49:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Eric, I actually read [most of] that. You make a lot of good points, but
    one great failing I think is putting too much faith in the level of general typographic
    education. It's extremely rare that a person can see the difference between Times
    and Georgia for example - whereas we think the difference is huge and pertinent.\r\n\r\nAnd
    there are two angles that I'd like to pursue:\r\n\r\n> Why can\u2019t a type designer
    be like a fashion designer\r\n\r\nSo you're saying make a really high-end \"out
    there\" font and sell a few copies for a lot of money, and then quickly make numerous
    watered-down versions to sell for very cheap? That actually sounds quite interesting,
    but we should elaborate on it. Like: Who would buy the \"out there\" one? Would
    people see a fruitful association between the high-end and low-end? What effects
    would the large number of choices between similar low-ends have? Etc.\r\n\r\n>
    Why not experiment with micropayments or other models\r\n> that seek to exploit
    the potential of the Long Tail?\r\n\r\nWell, there have actually been pay-for-a-setting
    schemes (first by URW then by Letterror), something I believe was actually standard
    practice during the photofont age. It seems to make sense, but has not caught
    on. Why? But anyway that only works for display fonts, not text. Text fonts are
    in fact the biggest victims, because they're hard to sell but take forever to
    make.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-23 19:56:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "There is a cost for constant interaction for each usage. What people fail
    to realize is that fonts are extremely cheap now, cheaper than half an hour of
    a graphic designer's billing rate. Why should a font be cheaper than a burger
    and fries at a fast-food joint?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-02-23 20:30:57'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "@Eric\r\n\r\nAre you trying to wright a book?  J/K\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design"
  created: '2009-02-23 23:20:35'
- author:
    name: Schrijver
    picture: 116831
  body: "<cite>That actually sounds quite interesting, but we should elaborate on
    it.</cite>\r\n<cite>Why should a font be cheaper than a burger and fries at a
    fast-food joint?</cite>\r\n\r\nTaking the analogy further, a font shouldn\u2019t
    be cheap as fries, a font should be as expensive as a tailored overcoat, and a
    few glyphs should be cheap as cologne :-)\r\n\r\nOf course type has a different
    audience than fashion so the out there associations might be different. Maybe
    connotations with literature and publishing but from a contemporary perspective.
    So either stylish classy, or sort of hipster 'I read books'. I know a typeface
    like [[http://www.teff.nl/fonts/lexicon/lexicon.html|TEFF Lexicon]] has a brand
    image that extends beyond typographic professionals, even though it is not available
    widely or cheaply; it has only two prominent uses. Presumably, they they lend
    it its cool: It is used by the most prestigious daily newspaper, and by the largest
    Dutch dictionary. Funny thing is, a few years ago talking with liberal art majors
    about graphic design invariably someone would mention\u2014Aah, the NRC (the newspaper)
    font, isn\u2019t that one great?\r\n\r\nIf a foundry could associate themselves
    with a brand like this, they might end up cutting a license deal with a company
    which laser-inscribes iPhones and the odd Kindle or two :-)\r\n\r\n(And in this
    case I don\u2019t think it matters it\u2019s a text font: it\u2019s the brand
    image that counts)\r\n\r\nAttached an image that shows how the great lenghts NRC
    went to be able to translate its typographic brand to the online version: They
    already had a digital version like this years ago. It's not a pdf, but they are
    independent images, and when you click on an article you can choose a plain-txt,
    jpg, or even PDF version of an article.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Afbeelding_201_4771.png]\r\n\r\n\r\n__\r\n[[http://authoritism.ericschrijver.nl|art
    directing the internet in 2009]][img:sites/default/files/old-images/Afbeelding_202_4552.png]"
  created: '2009-02-23 23:22:37'
- author:
    name: Schrijver
    picture: 116831
  body: "@Typedog\r\n\r\nThis is exactly what I was thinking a few hours ago.\r\n\r\nAt
    one point I was doing art school and university at the same tame, but quit university
    right before I was supposed to start writing my thesis. So I am probably trying
    to make up for that :-)\r\n\r\n__\r\n[[http://authoritism.ericschrijver.nl|art
    directing the internet in 2009]]"
  created: '2009-02-23 23:32:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Let's get practical here: if TEFF decided to make\r\nlet's say 6 spin-off
    typefaces based on Lexicon:\r\n1) How much would each cost?\r\n2) How would they
    be inferior to Lexicon?\r\n3) How would users see the association\r\nbetween Lexicon
    and the \"junior\" fonts?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-23 23:37:32'
- author:
    name: Schrijver
    picture: 116831
  body: "Well I think for these sort of ventures to work (if that\u2019s possible)
    they should in some way manage the gap between selling goods (typefaces) to selling
    services (cf book chapter above).\r\n\r\nBut these services would have to have
    something to do with both letters and technology.\r\n\r\nI\u2019m thinking along
    the lines of a Hyves Gadget (which is the local variant of a Facebook App). [[http://www.hyves.nl/|Hyves
    being even uglier than MySpace]], how cool would it be if you could buy a gadget
    that displays your status updates in beatiful pristine typography?\r\n\r\nTEFF
    could do it in Flash, so no piracy concerns.\r\n\r\n1) \u20AC 21.99 ($28.18)\r\n2)
    You can\u2019t use it for anything else but displaying your status updates\r\n3)
    The primary association being the NRC newspaper, TEFF cuts a deal with them to
    promote the gadget through the subscribers offers program (NRC gets part of the
    profit, but can offer loads of cheap on- and offline advertising because they
    own the distribution channels).\r\n\r\nAnd TEFF writes it using the [[http://code.google.com/apis/opensocial/|OpenSocial
    API]], so that if the Dutch seem to like it they can subsequently easily take
    on the international market\u2026\r\n__\r\n[[http://authoritism.ericschrijver.nl|art
    directing the internet in 2009]]"
  created: '2009-02-24 00:02:01'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Now this revenue stream has come under threat</em>\r\n\r\nIt has?\r\nPirating,
    bundling, and other kinds of free fonts have been around since desktop publishing
    began, during which time the font market has grown, and the foundry industry proliferated.\r\nRecently
    there have been a spate of threads at Typophile about free fonts. It's the topic
    du jour.\r\nMakes a change from thrashing around at Readability!\r\n\r\nWhat is
    causing the present interest in font prices?\r\nI suspect it is the growing sophistication
    of font marketers and the type business in general, opening up options.\r\nFor
    instance, I spent 10 years making $39 Type 1 fonts with Fontographer, but in the
    last 5 years have diversified into new formats with FontLab and OpenType, and
    am implementing and considering new licensing and pricing models. I now price
    single fonts from $9 to $79, and am even contemplating doing freemiums!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-24 00:30:10'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: (removed by "author")
  created: '2009-02-24 01:58:58'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: '"author"?'
  created: '2009-02-24 03:16:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> You can\u2019t use it for anything else but displaying your status updates\r\n\r\nI
    don't get it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-24 03:47:25'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "@hrant\r\n\r\nare you out of the social networking loop then?"
  created: '2009-02-24 21:51:44'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: When I were a lad, riding my bike to typesetters office uphill both ways,
    "FaceBook" were a catalog of display founts!
  created: '2009-02-24 22:15:15'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Good deed? Booster sales? I hope you are right ;-)\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/55186\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-24 23:00:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> are you out of the social networking loop then?\r\n\r\nDude, this <em>is</em>
    my social networking loop.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-24 23:59:13'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "@Schrijver:\r\n\r\n<cite>I did not know W3C was so opiniated on the matter,
    and if that is the case they are not doing anyone a favor, neither type foundries
    nor users.</cite>\r\n\r\nI apologize if I give the impression that \"W3C\" is
    some single entity with a single viewpoint on this. The view I described is that
    of the largest single and most outspoken group among folks on the W3C style list.
    I'd also ascribe that way of thinking to Mr Lie.\r\n\r\n<cite>What I find both
    condescending and narrowminded is the complete distrust of the capacity of amateurs
    or enthousiasts to appreciate quality.</cite>\r\n\r\nWell, some already do. But
    most don't, and of those, most can't be bothered to take the time to understand
    what constitutes quality. They don't care, or they are sure they know everything
    that's important. I wrote an entire blog piece on it, more than three years ago
    (http://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/2005/12/quality_in_type.html) - how would
    you suggest getting people to read it? Keeping in mind that said article is nowhere
    near exhaustive.  :(\r\n\r\nOn another note.... I have a fundamental problem with
    the future world you describe where some (still undefined) \"services\" take the
    role of earning money for type designers, while type design promotes the designer
    indirectly. In this universe, I think we never get any truly great type designers
    again, because truly great type design generally requires that the person be working
    full time at it. Having done a large-scale typeface design squeezed into too few
    hours at a stretch, I am painfully aware of this problem. I'm not saying I want
    to do type design full time, but I am saying that I realized that keeping it at
    less than 1/3 of my time would mean that I would never ever realize my potential
    as a type designer. Not saying I could be great, but whatever my maximum is, I'd
    never get there. Perhaps I'm over-generalizing from my own experience (and from
    watching Robert Slimbach, Carol Twombly, and my other colleagues at Adobe), but
    I think that this is probably true for all or almost all type designers.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-02-25 06:29:18'
- author:
    name: merkri
  body: "@dezcom\r\n\r\n<em>Why should a font be cheaper than a burger and fries at
    a fast-food joint?</em>\r\n\r\nMy point is that McDonalds makes a @#^&*$! ton
    of money."
  created: '2009-02-25 21:54:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "@merkri\r\nMy point is that the burger takes 2 minutes to make by unskilled
    labor. Everybody eats and 3 times a day. A typeface takes hundreds of hours of
    a highly skilled craftsman's time and has an eensy weensy market compared to food.
    A hamburger's usefulness is a one-time use only deal. A typeface lasts forever
    for an unlimited number of uses.  Ask McDonalds what they would charge you for
    a lifetime supply of meals at McD's and see what they would say.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-02-25 22:34:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> McDonalds makes a @#^&*$! ton of money.\r\n\r\nSo do prostitutes.\r\n\r\nI
    avoid McDonalds, and I suggest others do the same.\r\n\r\nYou see, life isn't
    about money. Good fonts are culture.\r\nBe careful how cheap you want that to
    be.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-25 22:51:49'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "I Love McDonalds!\r\nIm saving $ in order to take night classes at Art Center.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design"
  created: '2009-02-26 07:04:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Dude, get a toaster over and hit Trader Joe's like\r\ntwice a week: you'll
    save money <em>and</em> eat real food.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-26 07:15:44'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "@hrant \r\n\r\nYeah I also love joes and there cool designs \r\nand I know
    fast food is not good for you. I love \r\nthere burritos and veggies. \r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-26 19:10:20'
- author:
    name: Schrijver
    picture: 116831
  body: "@Thomas\r\n\r\n<cite>I have a fundamental problem with the future world you
    describe where some (still undefined) \u201Cservices\u201D take the role of earning
    money for type designers, while type design promotes the designer indirectly.
    In this universe, I think we never get any truly great type designers again, because
    truly great type design generally requires that the person be working full time
    at it.</cite>\r\n\r\nI think this is a very good point. I have been thinking it
    through; these facebook-app examples I was giving felt pretty contrived and nowhere
    near a solution for the proposed problem. I know the frustration of not being
    able to concentrate on one\u2019s core practice myself, as an artist with a mixed
    practice. It is the frustration of anyone active in a creative field. Even if
    you are a published writer or a selling artist, the amount of money you make with
    your primary skill (the books you sell, the work you sell) will almost never be
    sufficient as a living.\r\n\r\nI was thinking about what made the situation of
    type design different\u2026 And actually, I concluded that while it used to be
    so, at the moment I can not think of any distinguishing features left between
    type design and other creative fields\u2026 There are no barriers of entry anymore:
    the tools and knowledge you need to make a brilliant typeface are available to
    anyone. That is not to say anyone can design great type. But the reasons have
    become analogous to the reasons not anyone can write a brilliant book: the talent,
    character and education you need to do so are not evenly distributed among people.
    Now please do not shoot the messenger, but I think that the situation will arise
    as it does in other creative fields: making money by designing type will be aimed
    for more frequently than it will be achieved.\r\n\r\nEven though a consensus seems
    to exist nowadays among professionals on what constitutes a professional typeface,
    in their primary functionality a \u2018pro\u2019 font and a \u2018crappy\u2019
    font are identical: you can use them for typesetting. This means there are no
    definitive grounds upon which to classificate the two\u2014whereas previously,
    only a professional font could have existed in a physical form suitable for typesetting.\r\n\r\nThis
    is analogous to the situation in visual arts, where the view of the general public
    of what constitutes art does not coincide with <em>\u201Cthe professional definition
    of 'artist', shaped much less by any convictions about its autonomy, special privileges
    or obligations, and much more by its interweaving with a multifaceted and all-pervasive
    media culture, historical amnesia and the commodification of everyday life.\u201D</em>
    [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rosalind_Krauss|(pedia)]].\r\n\r\nThere is no way
    you can convince somebody that what he is doing is not art, or not a good piece
    of art, and reading the comments here shows that with regards to type many of
    you have the same experience.\r\n\r\nAny creative field suffers economically from
    supply exceeding demand. I think there will always be a few type designers who
    earn a lot of money <em>only</em> by designing type. But many will have some sort
    of mixed practice. And eventually, there will probably be people regarding themselves
    as type designer who make no money with it at all.\r\n\r\n__\r\n[[http://authoritism.ericschrijver.nl|art
    directing the internet in 2009]]"
  created: '2009-02-27 04:31:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I can not think of any distinguishing features left between type design
    and other creative fields\u2026 </em>\r\n\r\nOn the contrary, I see it as quite
    unique, economically.\r\nIt's the design of a professional design tool that is
    entirely digital, installed on hundreds of millions of computers used for all
    kinds of business and personal projects.\r\n\r\nWriters and artists don't create
    tools that add value to the user/consumer's work.\r\n\r\nPeople are always trying
    to compare type design to other forms of creative work, but there's only one thing
    remotely similar:\r\n\r\nMusical composition--a piece of music (not a recording)
    that may be performed by professionals and amateurs alike. Which is to say that
    a musical composition is an arrangement of basic plastic elements (notes=letters),
    informed by qualities that have a rich cultural history, the medium engaged in
    a complex neurological process, cybernetic, heuristic, &c., &c. \r\n  \r\nA tune
    and a typeface may both be considered abstract tools that require rendering by
    physical devices.\r\n\r\n<em>There are no barriers of entry anymore: the tools
    and knowledge you need to make a brilliant typeface are available to anyone</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    multi-foundry digital font industry has been built on that premise, since the
    introduction of Fontographer in 1986. \r\nSo why would the precondition of the
    industry now be seed of its doom?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-27 07:00:24'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "@Schrijver: <cite>There is no way you can convince somebody that what he
    is doing is not art, or not a good piece of art, and reading the comments here
    shows that with regards to type many of you have the same experience.</cite>\r\n\r\nVery
    true.\r\n\r\nAlthough Nick is right about the ~unique features of type design,
    I'm not sure I see any reason those features would impact the other predictions
    you're making. Too bad. I'm hoping you're wrong, though.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-02-27 09:13:38'
- author:
    name: matesrates
  body: "'Why should a font be cheaper than a burger and fries at a fast-food joint?'\r\n\r\nBasic
    economics?\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-18 09:44:34'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Elaborate, please?
  created: '2009-03-18 11:50:13'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "There is essentially no marginal cost to make extra copies of a digital font.
    Making additional burgers and fries has a substantial additional cost.\r\n\r\nMind
    you, the same is true of any good that can be delivered in purely digital form
    without requiring a physical medium."
  created: '2009-03-18 17:05:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Also, the size of the potential client base is vastly different. How many
    people by a font 3 times a day vs how many people eat 3 times a day.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-18 17:14:05'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "F**K! Why don't we Just Make Edible Fonts!@#$%. Dare I say You Dezcomplete
    Me!\r\n\r\nThere is essentially no marginal cost to make extra copies of a digital
    font, but sales, licensing and maintenance per user are significant enough costs
    to make the notion of 0-cost copies a non-issue, as our business goes. I could
    see having other points of view though. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-03-18 18:33:40'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: ">>> Why should a font be cheaper than a burger and fries at a fast-food joint?\u2019\r\n\r\n>>
    Basic economics?\r\n\r\n> Elaborate, please?\r\n\r\nApples to oranges. There's
    nothing to elaborate on."
  created: '2009-03-18 19:39:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"F**K! Why don\u2019t we Just Make Edible Fonts!@#$%. Dare I say You Dezcomplete
    Me!\"\r\n\r\nI don't know what I said to piss you off , David, but I was referring
    to Matesrates unsupported comment \"Basic economics\". I assumed he meant basic
    economics as in scaled sales where volume of profits increase with volume of sales.
    I was indicating that the potential volume of sales for type is very much smaller
    than the potential sales for food and that a reduction in unit cost can more greatly
    increase volume as a percentage of potential buyers. There just ain't all that
    many potential type buyers to make it worth the increase maintenance effort and
    loss from reduced retail price.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-18 20:39:04'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Tracking
  created: '2009-03-18 20:49:09'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: i ws kddng.
  created: '2009-03-19 11:31:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Whoops! Sorry, David, I should have known better.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-19 14:18:41'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Chris:\r\n\r\nYes, the number of *potential* buyers is small, but so is the
    number of *current* buyers. All that matters for pricing purposes is what fraction
    the former is of the latter, and what proportion of the latter one might entice
    by lowering the price. The fact that the total market is small is irrelevant,
    really.\r\n\r\nThat being said, even given a marginal cost of zero, that doesn't
    mean the profit-maximizing price is lower than the current price. It could be
    the same, or higher, instead. If halving your price gets you 50% more sales, it's
    a bad idea. If it triples your sales, it's probably a good idea (depending on
    what your actual marginal cost is: may not actually be zero due to support, etc.).\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-03-19 17:15:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thomas,\r\nYou make my point stronger. If the current market and the potential
    market are small, then the potential for growth is also small. You have to ask
    yourself what percentage of the total potential market would begin buying your
    product at a certain price point. If that point does not bring you a great enough
    increase in VOLUME of sales to overcome PROFIT per current sales volume, then
    a price decrease is counterproductive. Where do the curves cross? With food, the
    potential market is so huge, that there is greater chance of recouping more profit
    by volume. The other question is how many sales at a given price will it take
    to recoup your initial investment in time and money to produce and market the
    finished product. Where is the break-even point on the curve?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-19 17:33:34'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "<cite>If the current market and the potential market are small, then the
    potential for growth is also small</cite>\r\n\r\nNo, all that matters is the RELATIVE
    sizes of those two numbers. If the total market for a good is only 100 people,
    but dropping the price in half raises your sales from 10 to 50, then the fact
    that the market is tiny is irrelevant to the question of whether dropping prices
    is a good idea. It's just a question of ratios.\r\n\r\n<cite>The other question
    is how many sales at a given price will it take to recoup your initial investment
    in time and money to produce and market the finished product.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    know it's counter-intuitive, but consideration of sunk costs is irrelevant to
    going about maximizing profit. Even fixed start-up costs are only relevant insofar
    as they determine whether one ought to produce the product at all (if you can't
    make money, or enough money, you might not make the product), but they are irrelevant
    to pricing.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-03-20 01:41:27'
date: '2009-02-08 18:43:03'
node_type: forum
title: '"Giving one typeface away for free will most likely only booster sales, and
  it''s a good deed."'

---
