---
author:
  name: nina
  picture: 111699
body: "I've been asked to make this little art exhibition catalog for an association
  I'm a member of. This is pro-bono work, so I can't spend two weeks on it (or license
  any additional fonts)\u2026 and still of course I want it to become at least nice
  enough to put my name on it.\r\n\r\nBelow is a sketch for the cover (really rough
  still). I sent it to the client today, and he said he loves the illustration (which
  isn't mine btw), but the type is \"too hard to read\". He suggested Frutiger or
  something. :-/\r\nI've also asked a few laymen to read out the headline; while some
  of them read it instantly, others were struggling.\r\n\r\nNow consciously inducing
  (or at least tolerating) legibility problems would not really be something I'd be
  very proud of; on the other hand though, I feel this book can do with a bit of uncommon
  design at least on the outside (it's an art book! Come on).\r\n\r\nAnd I guess my
  main problem is that I'm really badly in love with how Sangue connects to the illustration
  and seems to \"grow\" out of the girl's head/brain \u2013 which seems to make a
  lot of sense. So I'd really hate to change the basic concept, or the font. \r\n\r\nThere's
  the dilemma. Here's the question: \r\nDo you guys\r\n1) see a chance of changing
  this in a way that would improve legibility of the title without completely changing
  the concept?\r\n2) think this sucks, my client's right, and I'm deluded?\r\n\r\nThanks.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ArtOfMind_CoverPreview_5963.jpg]"
comments:
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "Let's answer 2) first: no this does not suck. The client may be right that
    it's a bit hard to read.\r\n\r\nWhy not let this be as it is, and *add* the title
    in a more legible face (but not Frutiger...)? I can't read the blurry part, but
    is that a sub-title or some other information? "
  created: '2009-02-08 23:39:14'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thanks Steve. I was really starting to wonder (because I'm not sure how much
    critical distance I have towards this thing; and also because this is pretty different
    from my usual work / \"style\", and feels a bit new).\r\n\r\nReally good & simple
    idea too. The small stuff on the right is the editors' names, which I decided
    to blur before posting. Those are set in Legato Light*, kinda small, but I could
    see me adding the title above that in the Regular, maybe slightly larger. Sounds
    like a simple and elegant solution.\r\n* Which I might end up using inside the
    book as well.\r\n\r\nI guess the client could still stress out over the headline
    not reading from a distance\u2026 on the other hand, I guess I could stress out
    about not getting paid anyway & just doing it my way? :-/"
  created: '2009-02-08 23:56:25'
- author:
    name: AtoZ
    picture: 116285
  body: "The problem is that at first glance the lettering looks so much like it's
    part of the illustration that you don't notice that it's lettering. One solution
    might be to change the color of the lettering (and then let the color blend into
    black as it enters the illustration).\r\n&nbsp;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<em>When
    going from </em>A to Z,\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<em>I
    often end up </em>At Oz."
  created: '2009-02-09 00:24:11'
- author:
    name: dragoncaller
    picture: 116688
  body: I think the design's great. In terms of legibility, I understood it right
    away, but I can see why they might be concerned. Perhaps thickening the bottom
    of the letters? I think the font fits beautifully, I would hate to see it changed
    too much.
  created: '2009-02-09 00:49:05'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Hmm\u2026 You may be on to something with the colors, AtoZ. On the other
    hand, \r\nI suspect that's exactly what I like about it, this strong \"union\"
    of type and illustration. I have tried other colors, but this kind of makes the
    thing fall apart more, no? It does read better, but I feel the whole composition
    loses some of its simplicity/strength.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ArtOfMind_Cover2_4156.gif]\r\n--\r\n\r\ndragoncaller:
    Thanks! Actually Sangue is a font I'd prefer not to mess around with, since its
    contours have a roughness/structure that my lacking FontLab skills would probably
    just mess up completely. :-/"
  created: '2009-02-09 00:58:48'
- author:
    name: glyphobet
    picture: 112278
  body: 'This is awesome. Try increasing the space and visual separation between "art
    of mind" and the head. Then close the bottoms of the a, o and d, and give them
    one "tail" leading into the head from the bottom of the bowls, rather than two.
    The color fading into the head also helps. '
  created: '2009-02-09 01:16:12'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: "People don't read letters, they read words. Legibility suffers when people
    can't recognize the shapes of the words. \r\nThat's why <strong>mind</strong>
    scans effortlessly in your calligraphic treatment, but <strong>art</strong> and
    <strong>of</strong> are such short words, the shape of the words doesn't help
    to decode them. So readers are forced to try to decode letters, and that's where
    you lose them, because your <strong>a</strong> looks too much like your <strong>o</strong>
    and your <strong>r</strong> looks too much like your <strong>n</strong>. Work
    on the <strong>a</strong>, <strong>r</strong>, and <strong>n</strong>, but look
    at the shape of the words, not just the letters.\r\nP.S.: Frutiger? Is he smoking
    crack?"
  created: '2009-02-09 01:25:15'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "^ that \u201Ca\u201D has to read immediately and could be an \u201Cn\u201D.
    Is there a cap? Check the proportions on the face, looks a little too specific
    and draws maybe too much attention."
  created: '2009-02-09 01:44:46'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thanks for the input guys.\r\nI agree that some of the lettershapes may be
    problematic (like the \"a\"), though I'm hoping I can offset that by moving the
    type and illustration farther apart and such. I actually suck at calligraphy,
    so there's no way on Earth I could re-create something like this but slightly
    modified (and like I said above, I'm a bit worried that modifying the type digitally
    may do more harm than good).\r\n\r\n<em>\"Is there a cap?\"</em>\r\nYes (see <a
    href=\"http://www.linotype.com/227008/linotypesangueregular-font.html\">here</a>),
    but it has quite different proportions. Some first mixed-case trials were not
    successful, but I'll give it another shot (tomorrow \u2013 it's 3am here ;-) ).\r\n\r\nJames,
    when you say \"Check the proportions on the face\", do you mean the girl's face
    or the typeface? If the former: The illustration is in the process of being tweaked
    (there's some strange stuff going on on the forehead too). Anything specific that
    strikes you as odd? Too female I guess?"
  created: '2009-02-09 02:00:05'
- author:
    name: AtoZ
    picture: 116285
  body: "I understand your thoughts about the unity of the type and art. One alternative
    would be to keep the type in black, but blend the bottom of it a gray or one of
    those \"close to gray\" colors in the art. The primary legibility problem is that
    the bottoms of the a, o, and d are lost in the art. You might try playing with
    raising the type up some so that the bottoms of those letters are more visibile,
    although that will once again tend to destroy the unity of the type and art.\r\n\r\nHere's
    another possibility: Keep your title type in black (perhaps with the fade to gray),
    then repeat the title in a hairline sans-serif type that is set in tightly-packed
    flush right block and place it where the editors' names are now. (Use a larger
    point size -- so that the depth of the new two-line title is about the same as
    the depth of the current editors' text block), then move the editor's text block
    to lower on the page, probably aligned with the mouth in the art.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<em>When
    going from </em>A to Z,\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<em>I
    often end up </em>At Oz."
  created: '2009-02-09 02:22:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sangue, and Legato...\r\nWhat are you, my long-lost twin sister?!  ;-)\r\n\r\n>
    I guess I could stress out about not getting\r\n> paid anyway & just doing it
    my way?\r\n\r\nExactly. When it's pro bono you can assert your artistic license
    bigtime.\r\n\r\n> People don\u2019t read letters, they read words.\r\n\r\nDuring
    immersive reading, yes (although clusters of letters, not necessarily -although
    often- whole words). During deliberative reading however the reader has many seconds
    to unequivocally identify the individual letters, which is more robust.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-09 02:43:37'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "AtoZ,\r\n<em>\"The primary legibility problem is that the bottoms of the
    a, o, and d are lost in the art. You might try playing with raising the type up\"</em>\r\n\u2026or
    modifying the art, perhaps? I'm also going to try un-tangling some of that stuff
    up there that's partly covering up the letters in question.\r\n\r\nBrother Hrant,
    \ ;-)&nbsp;&nbsp;I'm very grateful you pointed out Sangue <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/51613\">over
    here</a>. The thing totally blew me away (even though I kind of expected never
    to be able to use it, ha!).\r\n<em>\"When it\u2019s pro bono you can assert your
    artistic license bigtime.\"</em>\r\nGood. Now I just need to practice being more
    assertive.\r\n\r\nGoing to post some variants on this later today (Monday). Thanks
    everyone for the input so far!"
  created: '2009-02-09 06:55:45'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Yes, I was talking about the woman\u2019s face in the illustration. If it
    could be made a bit more generic/iconic I think the focus would center on the
    action between the type and hair."
  created: '2009-02-09 12:48:28'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Here's a modified version in three color variants. \r\n\r\nThe main thing
    I did was move the type and art a bit further apart, and \"untangle\" the \"hair\"
    especially around the \"a\", \"o\", and \"d\" to make those letters more easy
    to grasp in their entirety. (The untangling isn't done \u2013 those leaves are
    endlessly complex once you start working on them\u2026)\r\nThe graphical intensity
    may have suffered a bit from this? But legibility seems to improve quite a bit,
    and I tend to think it's a workable compromise.\r\n\r\nI've added a second title
    on the right; except in #3, in which I think the headline really stands out enough
    to be legible in his own right.\r\n\r\nI've also reworked the woman's face. I'm
    not positive the anatomy is quite right, but (and maybe this is caused by sleep
    deprivation) I see a bit of an interesting tension between the black and the white
    especially around her mouth and nose, which didn't seem to be there before. (Although
    this doesn't seem to show so well in these little JPEGs.)\r\n\r\nBtw the cap \"A\"
    def didn't work. Looked way too\u2026 medieval? The lc seems to be more minimal
    in its blackletteresqueness (!).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ArtOfMind_Variant1a_5653.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ArtOfMind_Variant2a_5659.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ArtOfMind_Variant3a_4019.jpg]\r\n\r\n--\r\nI
    must say I'm still most convinced by the black & white treatment in #1. \r\n#3
    seems too \"Goth\" and places too much emphasis on the headline. \r\nWhat do you
    guys think?\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n(And sorry about the bad JPG compression. Let me
    know if you'd like a PDF.)"
  created: '2009-02-09 15:24:54'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Closing the lips helps. Maybe a little too much nose. Try lightening the
    background color\u2014I\u2019m kinda sad about repeating the title."
  created: '2009-02-09 15:44:37'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Hmm. Not so fond of the version with the colored background, but how about
    if the second title is really small, like so? (I admit it looks kinda more like
    a magazine than a book now, but what the hell.)\r\nNose: better?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ArtOfMind_Variant1b_5847.jpg]"
  created: '2009-02-09 15:58:12'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Looks good. I would hate to clean her brush.
  created: '2009-02-09 16:14:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Brush? :-)\r\n\r\nNina, you might try making a binocular \"a\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-09 16:39:10'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Aw, Hrant, I'm scared to touch this thing of beauty.\r\nBut the idea does
    seem tempting.\r\n\r\nBtw, real strong grown-up leaf-headed women clean their
    brushes themselves.&nbsp;&nbsp;:-P"
  created: '2009-02-09 17:24:12'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Good thing. I triple checked my spelling before that post. It is kind of
    warm today. I think I\u2019ll go brush my bushes now that they are not covered
    in snow."
  created: '2009-02-09 17:26:19'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: ":-D  \r\nGood on ya. Guess that makes you a real strong grown-up leaf-headed
    guy."
  created: '2009-02-09 17:30:03'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "If it sounds anything like this\u2026\r\n\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=73NEESBB36M\r\n\r\nthen
    yes."
  created: '2009-02-09 17:54:33'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/youtubeno_5399.gif]\r\n:-{"
  created: '2009-02-09 18:12:44'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I keep wanting to read "out of mind" because that's closer to a familiar idiom
    than "art of mind" is. And because the a looks a lot like o as mentioned before,
    and the legible part (top) of the r looks as much like the top of a u as it does
    an r. (And, maybe, because this sort of makes me think of that famous Dylan poster,
    and Dylan makes me think of his "Time Out of Mind" album.)
  created: '2009-02-09 18:15:32'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Interesting, Craig. \"Out of mind\" has been occurring to me too a couple
    of times, when I was just glancing at it. Well, this is aimed at a German audience;
    so I guess I'm hoping most of the readers won't be quicker to associate English
    idioms than \r\nto read. Hm.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, that may be a case in point
    for a more differentiated \"a\". \r\nThe EULA doesn't permit modifications\u2026
    Illustrator, here I come.&nbsp;&nbsp;:-|\r\n\r\n(And the Dylan association is
    a bit spooky; I didn't think of that poster once!)"
  created: '2009-02-09 18:37:29'
- author:
    name: Elias
  body: 'I think it''s a real shame to repeat the title on the front cover. First
    of all I think the title is quite legible as it is on your latest example, so
    the smaller title seems redundant. Secondly, even if the title on the front is
    hard to read for some, does it really matter? Why not just put the title in a
    more legible typeface on the spine (it''s from this side the book is going to
    be seen most of the time anyway) and leave the front hard to read for some, but
    (and very much because of this "inacessibility") a lot more interesting? '
  created: '2009-02-09 19:44:52'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"even if the title on the front is hard to read for some, does it really
    matter?\"</em>\r\n*sigh*\u2026 you know, I do agree.\r\nI'm mostly trying to do
    *something* that will give the client the comforting idea that I'm taking his
    concerns into consideration, and meeting him halfway so to speak (because I'm
    not changing the headline font, which is really what he wanted me to do). Then
    again, maybe I've done enough for legibility by freeing the headline from all
    those excessive weeds.\r\nI'm really not very used to the idea of having a lot
    of \"artistic freedom\", and to assert it too, especially when it runs counter
    to a client's wishes.\r\n\r\n<em>\"Why not just put the title in a more legible
    typeface on the spine\"</em>\r\nI'll have to check back. This is going to be a
    book-on-demand production, and the last time we worked with them there seemed
    to be no way to print on the spine (although their web site seems to say otherwise\u2026
    hm). Which would suck big time because this design would really need to run around
    the entire cover. :-|"
  created: '2009-02-09 20:20:26'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: 'Nina, how thick will the spine be? There''s usually a minimum size before
    you can print on the spine. (Sometimes larger for POD, since their manufacturing
    is less precise than traditional printers, but even for standard printers, there''s
    a minimum thickness.) '
  created: '2009-02-09 20:38:26'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Ah, there's the beef.\r\nThis is only a hundred pages; their calculation
    tool says that will be around 6mm for the spine. They don't say it's not printable,
    but given the tolerance of 2mm from either edge, looks like it won't make much
    sense to squeeze any type in. :-/\r\nBut at least I will apparently be able to
    let the design run around the entire cover (that just felt like bad English, but
    I hope it's comprehensible)."
  created: '2009-02-09 21:08:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The EULA doesn\u2019t permit modifications\u2026\r\n\r\nThat refers to
    outputing fonts. You'd just be modifying a single glyph (essentially beziers)
    for Illustrator. And if a EULA wants to forbid <em>that</em>, pardon my language,
    but screw them.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-09 21:21:52'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: If you want to experiment with a two-story 'a', flipping the 's' horizontally
    might give you a decent starting point.
  created: '2009-02-09 21:48:35'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Hrant: \r\n\"Modifying the Font Software is prohibited, even in the event
    that it is necessary for fulfilling personal design requirements. If the licensee
    wants to make modifications, consent and permission has to be obtained from Linotype
    GmbH. Non-compliance with this provision (\u2026) represents a violation and breach
    of this license agreement.\"\r\nSeems a bit\u2026 extremist. I don't really see
    such a crucial difference between doing this in Illustrator vs. directly in FontLab,
    given that it's only one glyph that I'm gonna use exactly once. \r\nThat said,
    I have started out in Illustrator, and for the basic search of what this should
    look like, that's fine at least for the moment.\r\n\r\nCraig, have you seen Sangue's
    \"s\"? :-)\r\nI'm trying out stuff. But this is gonna take a little hanging-on-the-wall
    time."
  created: '2009-02-09 22:22:09'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "You may find a general interpretation of this, as well as the intent, is
    that you not modify the software. This would not apply to letter shapes generated
    by the software. So tweaking the kerning or position of the glyphs, or even adding
    a missing glyph would be a no, but converting to outlines and making a mess is
    AOK.\r\n\r\nNow someone tell me how wrong I am. Please."
  created: '2009-02-09 22:46:34'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"converting to outlines and making a mess is AOK\"</em>\r\nThat would
    be the way I understood it: Modifying Illustrator outlines is ok, messing around
    directly in FontLab is not. The distinction isn't arbitrary, but feels kind of
    stupid to me (and please correct me too if I'm being ignorant): If I have something
    printed that uses a font with a modified glyph in it, who cares if it was modified
    in Illustrator, or directly in the font?\r\nAre they just worried about modified
    versions of the font floating around? (Wow, two breaches of one EULA.)"
  created: '2009-02-09 23:05:41'
- author:
    name: AtoZ
    picture: 116285
  body: "Repeating the title the title doesn't bother me as much as it seems to others,
    although I don't particularly like having the two titles so close to each other.
    Here's one way to avoid that:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Art of Mind
    Cover_6156.png]\r\n&nbsp;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<em>When
    going from </em>A to Z,\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<em>I
    often end up </em>At Oz.\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-09 23:13:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> messing around directly in FontLab is not.\r\n\r\nI think it's not software
    until you output it.\r\nSo you could copy-paste from FontLab to Illustrator.\r\n\r\nAnd
    frankly, even if it's a font, but it's only\r\nfor your internal use, in my book
    it's just fine.\r\nEULAs are an intimidation tactic to some extent.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-09 23:17:11'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Clint, you are sending me down [[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M98-5g3TYTI&eurl=http://video.google.com/videosearch?q=Electric+Company&oe=utf-8&rls=org.mozilla:en-US:official&client=fi|Electric
    Company]] lane.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-09 23:20:45'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Hmm Clint, I'm not sold on that. It does take the two titles apart visually,
    but to my eyes, it places too much emphasis on the \"second\" title, making the
    whole composition read, in order of visual hierarchy, (1) \"art of mind\"; (2)
    illustration leading to: (3) \"art of mind\" [again]; then (4) the small print
    \u2013 thereby taking the redundancy of the two titles to extremes. It makes the
    second one a distinct, and very prominent, element.\r\nThe version I proposed
    above would read (to me) more like, (1) \"art of mind\"; (2) illustration; (3,
    here comes the small print) \"Art of mind. Edited by, blah blah blah.\"\r\nI'm
    probably going to try and sell (ha ha) it to him without the second title.\r\n\r\nHrant,
    thanks for the clarification \u2013 I didn't get the importance of outputing.
    \r\nAnd I've decided I'm not going to worry too much about this."
  created: '2009-02-09 23:24:10'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Personally I don't have a problem with your initial design at all. I can
    read it perfectly. The same probably goes for more people on this board, but most
    of us here are surrounded by and work with letters all day long, so we might not
    be the best people to judge the legibility.\r\n\r\nThat said, I think the treatment
    in the initial design works really well, since the type nicely blends with the
    illustration. I saw someone say that this is a problem, but I think it's the opposite.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    your last options seem to cover a nice middle ground. I don't think they betray
    your concept that much. Although I would not repeat the title with normal type,
    I think it somehow takes away some of the power the headline type has (and it
    may also look like you underestimate the reader).\r\n\r\nAnd a 6 mm spine shouldn't
    really be a problem to print on? I've printed type on such spines before. The
    type will just have to be small (obviously), so you will have to use a typeface
    which can handle that (and; add very clear folding lines to your PDF in the bleed
    area, and tell them to take special notice to the spine)."
  created: '2009-02-10 02:35:41'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: 'The margin of error on those POD projects is huge. Most demand any text be
    .25" from trim or something like that. '
  created: '2009-02-10 02:51:05'
- author:
    name: AtoZ
    picture: 116285
  body: "<em>Ask a dozen designers their opinions about a design \r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;and
    you'll get a dozen opinions;\r\nAsk a dozen art directors \r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;and
    you'll get two dozen opinions, \r\nAsk a dozen non-designers their opinion \r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;and
    ... well, it doesn't bear thinking about.</em>\r\n\r\nAlthough suggestions, from
    whatever source, can often be useful, ultimately you have to rely on your own
    sense of design to make the final decision of what to show the client (who most
    often is a non-designer--sigh).\r\n&nbsp;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<em>When
    going from </em>A to Z,\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<em>I
    often end up </em>At Oz."
  created: '2009-02-10 08:40:04'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Cool, thanks for your feed-back Quincunx.\r\nRe the spine: The problem is
    indeed the margin of error \u2013 the 2mm mentioned above. Subtract 2mm from either
    side of a 6mm spine and you end up with 2mm of space for type. :-/\r\n\r\nAtoZ,
    agree about the n+1 opinions. \r\nI originally wasn't going to post this here,
    as I don't really have time to spend days on end discussing and revising it. But
    once again, feed-back from you guys has been invaluable*, especially as I had
    been getting quite insecure about the legibility issue. So, thanks again. \r\n*
    Also when we didn't agree.\r\n\r\nWill get back with [pre-]finals, and probably
    with that \"a\"."
  created: '2009-02-10 09:52:44'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I've never heard of that 2 mm rule, and I've designed alot of poetry books
    which often have narrow spines. I recently designed one with a 5 mm (!) spine,
    and I used a 9 pt. FF Milo on it. Not a problem at all. I just marked the fold
    lines really clearly in the bleed area and told them to take care when binding
    them.\r\n\r\nHowever, I was quickly looking through my poetry book InDesign files,
    and those with 100-ish pages all have a spine more in the range of 1 cm. This
    is just with regular paper you often see in books (whatever it's called in English),
    which isn't that heavy/thick. So are you sure that 6 mm estimate is accurate?"
  created: '2009-02-10 16:56:16'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Jelmar, the 6mm estimate is based on two things:\r\n1) a \"calculator\" that
    this book on demand service has on their web site (<a href=\"http://www.bod.de/hilfe-paperback-berechnung.html\">here</a>
    for reference, though it's all in German). If I put the variables in there \u2013
    paperback, 100 pages, 17&times;22cm, standard white paper \u2013, it gives me
    0.6 cm for the spine (\"Buchr\xFCckenbreite\"). \r\n2) another book I made last
    year that they produced, which has 92 pages, and about 6.5mm on the spine. (I'm
    just assuming they only have one standard paper sort, so this may be compatible.)\r\n\r\nSo
    I'm assuming that's more or less accurate, though it might be closer to 7mm than
    6. I can't calculate it, as they're not really giving specific information about
    the paper they use \u2013 though I might try calling them about that.\r\n\r\nThe
    2mm margin of error is bad; I've had that happen before in cheap-ish digital printing,
    though."
  created: '2009-02-10 17:17:34'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: It must be really, very thin paper then. :)
  created: '2009-02-10 22:11:24'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Feels like 90 grams or so. Nothing that I'd want to print an art catalog on,
    but hey, it's cheap. :-/
  created: '2009-02-10 22:47:37'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I know I didn't want to do this, but it's been quite illuminating.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sangue_binocular-a_6661.gif]\r\n\r\nI
    basically tried to reach a compromise between trying to find shapes that would
    match the font (and get the attitude in!), and still keep it open/clear-cut enough
    for legibility. I decided against a thick horizontal stroke on the top (\xE0 la
    \"s\"), which looked clunky and didn't seem to make sense next to \"n\", \"m\",
    etc. My \"a\" was modeled mostly on the original \"a\", a bit of the \"r\", and
    a dash of \"d\" and \"o\". And a healthy dash of gut feeling. \r\n\r\nI dunno.
    I fully expect this to be off in a bunch of ways.\r\nBut I do think it already
    reads significantly better in the headline:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ArtOfMind_V2_6238.gif]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ArtOfMind_V3_modA_5712.gif]\r\n--\r\n\r\nFor
    the record, once I was on those curves, I also tried some other things I'd been
    thinking about (like lengthening the ascender of the \"d\"), but that was not
    doing much really. The \"a\" however seems crucial. Thanks for pointing it out,
    Hrant.\r\n\r\nAny opinions? I'm gonna get back to the client with the revised
    version tomorrow.\r\n(And thanks all; this is / has been great learning material
    as always!)"
  created: '2009-02-11 00:58:11'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "It's a bit hard to read at first glance.\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design"
  created: '2009-02-11 01:07:40'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Eureka
  created: '2009-02-11 01:44:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think that's a passable \"a\".\r\nBTW, I <em>would</em> try a taller \"d\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-11 01:46:02'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Some detail corrections. This looks prefinal to me (up for facing the client
    again), unless I'm missing something really big?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/headline_prefinal_5816.gif]\r\n\r\nI
    know what I'm going to tell the next graphic designer who asks me why the hell
    I'd be interested to learn something as strange as type design\u2026"
  created: '2009-02-11 03:15:09'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: That paid off!
  created: '2009-02-11 03:27:08'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thanks everyone. I do agree this has grown a lot since I first posted it
    here. \r\nI almost feel like mentioning Typophile in the colophon. :-)\r\n\r\nFor
    the sake of completeness, here's what I just sent out to the client, along with
    \r\na lengthy (and quite assertive!) argumentation. \r\nI'll keep you posted.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ArtOfMind_CoverPrefinal_5666.jpg]"
  created: '2009-02-11 17:59:03'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: 'Just wanted to get back with the news that the client gave his OK, albeit
    grudgingly (he said his intuition still tells him otherwise). I can''t quite shake
    the suspicion that his reservations might have to do with more than just legibility.
    Anyway, I''m really glad I can follow this through. (-:'
  created: '2009-02-14 18:34:31'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Ah, good news. And you know, clients usually only know what they <em>don't
    want</em> when they see it. They have no idea what they <em>do want</em>. ;)
  created: '2009-02-16 14:17:05'
- author:
    name: cschroeppel
    picture: 116864
  body: I could read the title only after I realized that it (a) was supposed to be
    title and (b) that it consisted of letters. So I fully understand that your client
    worries about legibility. However, that the title is not immediately recognizable
    or legible on the cover page will not prevent people from finding or reading the
    catalog. After all, the title will be printed inside the catalog as well (I assume
    this to be the case). After all, it's an art related work, so lack of legibility
    is maybe something that draws more interest to the work. -- cs
  created: '2009-02-16 18:22:24'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Jelmar makes a very good point. I also find people often react poorly initially
    and later love an idea after they get a good reaction to it. Navigating the trust,
    well, I have some serious doubts about my own skill in that regard.
  created: '2009-02-16 23:29:57'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "How true, Jelmar.\r\nI've been wondering if I should point the client here
    so he can see some positive reactions to this. Then again, Mojo asked if he smokes
    crack so maybe not. :->\r\n(Besides the fact it's now accepted anyway; plus he's
    *very* happy with the inside layout so that helps too.)"
  created: '2009-02-16 23:39:34'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "I like  your latest revision the message is clear and directed.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design"
  created: '2009-02-19 06:57:29'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Oh, here's the end result:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/artofmind-small_3618.jpg]\r\n\r\n(<a
    href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/ninastoessinger/3684088246/\">Large version
    on Flickr</a>)\r\nI think she ended up looking a bit annoyed/pouty. But I'm still
    really happy with this. :-)\r\nThanks again, everyone!"
  created: '2009-07-03 10:11:13'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Looks fine!\r\n\r\nOnly thing I would have changed, maybe, is the space between
    the title and the spine. But that's hindsight. :)"
  created: '2009-07-06 21:37:50'
date: '2009-02-08 23:03:57'
title: Book Cover Legibility Woes

---
