---
author:
  name: nepenthe
  picture: 109675
body: "(Apologies for the length. <strong>For the short but incomplete version, just
  follow the bolds.</strong>)\r\n\r\n<strong>It seems that typographic criteria are
  an important factor in how philosophers distinguish scholarly from non-scholarly
  philosophical papers.</strong> First, scholarly articles use black text only. Probably
  because it is too expensive to print, I have never seen color in the body text of
  an academic journal. Second, visual structuring of the text is kept to an absolute
  minimum. The clearest visual cues to semantic or logical structure likely to be
  found are the numbers in sequentially numbered arguments. Lastly, diagrams are rare,
  always sharply separated from the body text, and usually redundant\u2014clarifying
  as they do material already expressed in the body text. <strong>These tendencies
  reflect a desire to evade the influence of design on inquiry, to present the content
  of philosophical inquiry as somehow free from the constraints of having a visual
  form.</strong>\r\n\r\nTo make things complicated for myself, <strong>I\u2019ve come
  to want to defend a conception of philosophy that demands I question the typographical
  norms of the academy.</strong> (In short, since philosophy seeks knowledge of self-consciousness,
  it cannot deliberately ignore the necessity of its products being physical and visual
  things. I will likely develop some of these ideas on my blog, rather than in a discussion
  forum thread.) <strong>But when I expressed interest in writing on this topic for
  my honors thesis, such that I would use the design of my paper as well as the written
  words to convey its argument, it generated somewhat of a controversy.</strong> Responses
  ranged from interest and encouragement to the warning that if my paper did not show
  up to the ball wearing a suit and tie, it would not even be admitted. \r\n\r\n<strong>Consequently,
  I tried to find contemporary examples to justify my project: contemporary philosophical
  works that use their visual presentation as an integral part of their meaning. But
  except for Derrida\u2019s <em>Glas</em> and Wittgenstein's works\u2014hardly contemporary
  anymore\u2014my search turned up nothing in the scholarly realm. \r\n\r\nWhat seems
  to be the case most of the time is that when an artist or designer creates a text
  as an art or design object, they use whatever visual techne they can to construct
  a meaning as complex or simple as they desire to; but when it comes to writing as
  a scholar, the complexities and layers of meaning\u2014or even improvements in clarity
  and reader engagement\u2014that can be developed this way are immediately abandoned.</strong>\r\n\r\nI
  can infer a number of reasons why this might be a practical requirement of articles
  that are to be printed cheaply in academic journals and their equivalent, not the
  least of which is that good design takes a lot of time. But it is unclear how one
  would justify these practical considerations as law, as practices both good for
  their own sake and definitive of philosophical practice. One would either have to
  maintain a Platonic distinction between ideas and their expression, or an arbitrary
  distinction between historically diverse forms and contemporary narrow forms of
  philosophical writing, or that philosophical inquiry is no different than scientific
  research (scientific papers being the exemplars of the scholarly journal article).
  \r\n\r\nI apologize if this seems like a strange thing to post on the typophile
  discussion boards. Without offering my reasons for why I think the visual structure
  of a philosophical work is philosophically relevant, it might not seem very important.
  That having been said, <strong>my question to you is this: </strong>\r\n\r\n<strong>Do
  you think there are scholars (especially philosophers) who do as I say\u2014not
  just write <em>about</em> visual aspects of philosophical writing, as many unintelligible
  French authors do, but <em>write inquiry visually</em>\u2014or do you think there
  are good reasons to maintain a mutual exclusivity between inquiry and design? </strong>\r\n\r\nI've
  attached an example of a book that I think exemplifies one way graphic design can
  perfect inquiry: <em>Das Bildnerische Denken</em> by Paul Klee, designed by Robert
  B\xFCchler. Here Klee\u2019s writings and diagrams are given perfect expression
  by B\xFCchler\u2019s layouts and diagram redesigns. Obviously not everything could
  be produced at this level, but I don\u2019t see this as a philosophical argument
  against trying.\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: canus
    picture: 110851
  body: "I am a philosophy student as well (and I am a student at the KABK). I believe
    a further example could be Paul Feyerabend's \"Against Method\" when it was first
    designed and published (I will put up some pictures when I get home). It is not
    current, but sadly the only example I can think of.\r\n\r\nI think there are good
    reasons to combine design and inquiry (although I think it must be combined as
    a last step). There was a special typography class by G. Unger at my university
    and his lectures strengthened the idea to intertwine content and design in academic
    papers and journals in general and philosophy in particular.\r\n\r\nTerence"
  created: '2009-02-09 10:58:44'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "I pawed through a couple of Deleuze & Guattari editions and found one small
    visual model related to another writer\u2019s work. I suspect that there is a
    long tradition of wanting to separate the field from mysticism which has always
    produced impressive looking visual representations of interior space."
  created: '2009-02-09 13:08:38'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "As long as the author's main tool is language and he is not good at visualizing
    things, there is no need for illustrations or charts. Semioticians sometimes use
    charts to illustrate relations, and don't forget Peirce who visualized logic,
    see his entitative and existential graphs (nice book about this by Don D Roberts
    at IUP) or George Spencer Brown's Laws of Form. Just reading Kurt Flasch's Das
    philosophische Denken im Mittelalter which includes a short chapter about -- Leonardo.\r\nMy
    question however is: What do you mean by \"write inquiry visually\"? And what
    point do you intend to make?\r\n\r\n<cite>There was a special typography class
    by G. Unger</cite> ...\r\n\r\nWhat was the outcome?"
  created: '2009-02-09 14:30:49'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: It might be interesting to consider, in cases where the philosopher/scholar
    in question also teaches, how visual his or her presentation of inquiry is in
    the classroom. I bet quite a few scholars who publish in text streams without
    concern for visuals might use quite a few on the chalkboard etc. as they teach
    that same material to a live audience.
  created: '2009-02-09 14:53:22'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Interesting thread!\r\nI was going to suggest Deleuze & Guattari too.\r\n\r\nFrom
    my experience producing educational materials and tools for my local university,
    and working with scholars and teachers from diverse fields, I got the very strong
    impression that while the natural sciences are quite comfortable working with
    visual methods to corroborate their findings (and even use visualization as a
    heuristic tool), the humanities seem to have an almost surprising fear of the
    visual. Some more, some less, of course; history, for example, has been working
    with charts, graphs, and maps for quite a while, especially so in teaching. Philosophy,
    I would suspect, being a very \"verbal\" field from the beginning (I'm surmising),
    probably retains a strong distrust vis-\xE0-vis the visual, and may be somewhat
    unconsciously striving to produce \"naked\" text untouched by the transformative
    powers of the visual world. \r\nMy impression will be culturally biased, however,
    as the German-speaking countries tend to have a more difficult relationship to
    visuality than the Anglophone world in various aspects.\r\n\r\nI don't know if
    this is interesting to you \u2013 or if there are other such programs closer to
    you and your cultural context \u2013, but there's an interdisciplinary, nationally-funded
    <a href=\"http://www.eikones.ch/starte.html\">\"iconic criticism\" research program</a>
    going on here that focuses mainly on the role and impact of images, but they do
    branch out into visual vs. non-visual (i.e. also designed vs. \"non-designed\")
    presentation of content as well. I've used their library, which is small but quite
    interesting. Maybe someone there could give you some pointers as well."
  created: '2009-02-09 15:48:17'
- author:
    name: nepenthe
    picture: 109675
  body: "I'm at work right, so I can't post a proper response until this evening.
    It's interesting that none of the philosophers mentioned here so far\u2014Feyerabend,
    Deleuze, Guattari, Flasch\u2014are taught in my university. Neither is Derrida
    or anything in that vein. A few years ago a new prof tried teaching a class on
    Husserl and almost everyone dropped it. Our department is sort of a mix of analytical
    and historical philosophy. I think maybe it's becoming more analytical, but I'm
    not sure. I wanted to focus my attention on continental philosophy, particularly
    Derrida, but it was suggested to me that since I found it so difficult to interpret,
    that I should further back in the discussion. I am focusing on the thought of
    Alexandre Koj\xE8ve, whose interpretation of Hegel was highly influential on later
    French thought. And his language is clearer to understand than his influences
    and those he influenced\u2014Heidegger, Hegel, and Marx on the one hand, and Merleau-Ponty,
    Foucault, and Derrida on the other\u2014although it is not without its difficulties.\r\n\r\n@Terence
    & Craig: One the things which led me to be interested in this topic is the complete
    incongruity between how lectures and seminars are conducted and how papers are
    written. It led me to wonder this: if a paper is the visual expression of philosophical
    activity, then why do papers not draw on the same resources? For example, in class,
    discussion and diagrams are significant aspects of the activity, but philosophical
    papers are without either. It is as if philosophizing were the \"preparatory stages\"
    of the final paper, as Wittgenstein would have it. But if the goal of philosophy
    is to produce a particular kind of product, then why deny this by forbidding philosophizing
    about the production itself. What could be more philosophical than this? To this
    end, last year I wrote a paper as a series of dialogues and correspondences, where
    the correspondences incorporated diagrams. The idea was to structure the writing
    according to actual philosophical practice. (This was for one of the professors
    who supports these kinds of ideas.)\r\n\r\n@James: I think this certainly has
    something to do with it. As Socrates would have it, the philosopher should point
    his soul toward being, not becoming. Since the visual partakes of becoming, it
    should be avoided. But of course Socrates didn't write to get promotions, whereas
    today's academics do.\r\n\r\n@Karsten: I don't think one could make a knock-down
    argument against the linguistic use of diagrams. As long the diagrams are developed
    in a systematic fashion such that their use follows objective rules, they should
    be just as linguistic as using glyph in sentences. E.g., the diagrammatic work
    of cartoonist [[http://nowordsnoaction.files.wordpress.com/2007/03/jimmyspread3.jpg|Chris
    Ware]].\r\nI'll have to write you a proper response later, but I think that if
    you accept certain of Koj\xE8ve's premises, it is possible to deduce many the
    claims I wish to make.\r\n\r\n@Nina: that site you referred to me is perfect!
    I wish I had found this months ago. I'll have to respond in more detail later.
    Gotta get back to work!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-09 18:07:30'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "\"The typographical norms of the academy\" were certainly challenged by \"The
    Telephone Book\" by Avital Ronnell, designed by Richard Eckersley and published
    by University of Nebraska Press in 1989. Take a gander at that one.\r\n\r\nOdd:
    I made note of this book in another thread recently, one about colored text stock
    for books.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.nebraskapress.unl.edu/product/Telephone-Book,671074.aspx\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2009-02-09 19:15:40'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Well, I ended formal studies in philosophy 40 years ago, so I may be a bit
    out of date. With that caveat, what you might consider is that analytic philosophy,
    as a scholarly discipline, has abandoned areas of thought over the centuries.
    These areas, these kinds of truth, are no longer considered \"philosophical,\"
    and properly so. For example, religious arguments are not applicable, as the basis
    of religion is revealed truth. Empirical arguments are not applicable; they have
    a scientific basis. If there are aesthetic *truths*, they are perhaps revealed,
    but most of us would like to take them as empirical, allowing that the science
    hasn't gotten quite that far yet.\r\n\r\nBy the way, several things Wittgenstein
    said about philosophy remain current, no matter how much the academic study has
    changed . . . "
  created: '2009-02-09 22:30:17'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: How is Bergson holding up?
  created: '2009-02-09 22:43:02'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "k.l. -- <cite>As long as the author's main tool is language and he is not
    good at visualizing things, there is no need for illustrations or charts.</cite>\r\nj.p.k.
    -- <cite>I don\u2019t think one could make a knock-down argument against the linguistic
    use of diagrams.</cite>\r\n\r\nJust to clarify, neither do I intend to knock anything
    down -- I mentioned Peirce and Spencer-Brown as admirable examples -- but said
    that obviously most authors feel more comfortable to express themselves in words
    rather than in graphs.\r\nWhich premises of Kojeve do you mean?\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-09 23:39:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...my search turned up nothing in the scholarly realm...</em>\r\n\r\nMcluhan
    had to crash the party, and those at the ball ignored him.\r\n\r\nTexts which
    visually deconstruct the medium in which they are presented cannot be considered
    part of academic philosophy at your level. \r\n\r\nWhat you are interested in
    is not viable as philosophy, where it vanishes up its own ass, but is better as
    cultural theory, such as:\r\n\r\nhttp://muse.jhu.edu/login?uri=/journals/modernism-modernity/v002/2.3br_drucker.html\r\n\r\nAnd:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.tate.org.uk/collections/glossary/definition.jsp?entryId=467\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-09 23:48:30'
- author:
    name: nepenthe
    picture: 109675
  body: "<strong>Will:</strong> That \"Telephone Book\" looks like it is pretty far
    out. I checked and we also don't have that one in our library. Google Books is
    pretty generous with that one, though. Authors whose works this bring to mind,
    of those I've encountered, include [[http://books.google.com/books?id=f-b2RPA8NF8C&printsec=frontcover&rview=1&source=gbs_summary_r&cad=0|Maurice
    Blanchot]] (on the very fringes of being called a \"philosopher\"?) and [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mark_Z._Danielewski|Mark
    Danielewski]] (a Derridean literaturist, perhaps, though not a philosopher). Neither
    author, it could be easily argued, deviates from the norms to clarify their!\r\n\r\n<strong>Nick:</strong>
    McLuhan is a notable exception to the rule, and I'm surprised I forgot to mention
    him. I don't think his trains of thoughts would always be accepted by philosophers
    as good arguments, though. Nobody in my department, at least, would be likely
    to call him a philosopher.\r\n\r\nI have Drucker's <em>The Visible Word</em> on
    loan from another library at present. We have no such books in our library, unfortunately.
    I have just started to read it. But it is interesting to note that it is presented
    in a conventional visual academic style, despite its subject matter.\r\n\r\n<em>
    where it vanishes up its own ass</em>\r\nThis is priceless. I think that it must
    seem like I'm wanting to follow the deconstuctionist path. But I am among the
    persons who thinks that much of this work is unintelligible. \"Onto-typo-logy,
    thus inflected, that is, thus 'reversed' and brought back to the 'subjectal' sphere,
    finally proceeds from a 'modification of transcendence,' that is, from the transformation
    of transcendence into 'rescendence', wherein transcendence itself founders and
    disappears...\" (<em>Typography</em>, Phillipe Lacoue-Labarthe, 55\u201356)\r\n\r\n<strong>James:</strong>
    All the Bergson I've seen is continuous blocks of text. Yet another philosopher
    not taught in my department, so once again my familiarity is not extensive. I
    think I was told at some point that he's no longer considered important, so not
    to bother too much with him. But I could be mistaken on that.\r\n\r\n<strong>Karsten:</strong>
    \"I don't think one can make a knock-down argument against x\" is just an analytic
    philosophy expression meaning one thinks x is a defensible position. I think I
    may have picked it up from Davidson ... As for Pierce, I have not encountered
    any diagrams in his writings, but I have not read him extensively. Are you thinking
    of symbolic logic, or did you have something else in mind? I forgot to mention
    symbolic logic as a diagrammatic form of scholarly writing. Oddly, the use of
    symbolic logic in papers is also discouraged in my department. And I must confess
    that I had never heard of Spencer-Brown before. I'll have to check out what we
    have in our library. Google Books only has snippet views.\r\n\r\nI'll respond
    specifically about Kojeve in awhile. I have a few chores to do before I can work
    on a proper response.\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-10 01:38:48'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Nick: Ouroboros is an old one. Probably predates any known philosophy department.
    But then there is no doubt a distinction to be made between disappearing up one\u2019s
    own a$$ and consuming oneself. The end sum is still zero either way, pick your
    poison."
  created: '2009-02-10 01:55:29'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I don't think you have yet articulated the problem clearly enough.\r\n\r\nA
    big part of the reason that philosophical papers are not particularly well designed
    is money, that the essays are just put through a template and libraries buy the
    stuff. Another part of the reason is that most philosophers are not design-aware.\r\n\r\nBut
    neither of these problems is a philosophical problem--a problem of understanding
    or explaining something. They are instead important practical problems: how to
    you improve the design of journals and books, and how do you improve education
    and awareness?\r\n\r\nWhat is the philosophical problem here?\r\n\r\nI am not
    saying that you don't have one; I am saying that you haven't made it clear. I
    have taught philosophy and discussed plenty of essays with students. If you were
    my student, I'd say: a 'topic' or even a thesis ( eg \"academics should be design-aware\")
    isn't good enough, you need a problem. Something concerns you, and that is a good
    start. But what is the problem?  What are you trying to understand? What isn't
    clear? What are the different points of view in the existing literature on the
    issue you are concerned with? Try to answer those questions and they will give
    your inquiry more focus and direction.  \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n   \r\n\r\n  "
  created: '2009-02-10 02:33:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Interesting and thorny issue. You're gonna need one helluva crowbar.\r\n\r\nNot
    contemporary, but: Beaumarchais expended great energy/funds\r\nto acquire the
    original Baskerville materials for the setting of his\r\ncomplete works of Voltaire
    (although AFAIK he didn't get the ink and\r\npaper to JB's level).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-10 05:46:29'
- author:
    name: nepenthe
    picture: 109675
  body: "I have attempted to provide a very brief summary of why I think the design
    of philosophical works is philosophically relevant. However, I have retained the
    terminology and the diagrams are quite rough, so the meaning may be opaque at
    times. Any question you can offer will only help me to better clarify what I am
    presently unskilled at communicating.\r\n\r\nIn Koj\xE8ve\u2019s philosophy, the
    philosopher is defined in terms of desire, the desire to become wise, that is,
    to become a sage. Wisdom (<em>Sagesse</em>, en fran\xE7ais) is a form of self-consciousness,
    viz., it is the answer to every question that a self-consciousness can ask of
    itself about itself: \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/argument-002_3797.jpg]
    \r\n\r\nA self-consciousness has two aspects: consciousness for-itself, and consciousness
    for-another. In other words, the self-consciousness is both subject and object.
    Thus, the philosopher desires to answer every question that can be asked of himself
    both as subject (concept) and as object (thing). What I will argue is that by
    accepting these premises, one can deduce a conception of philosophy with two aspects
    corresponding to the two aspects of self-consciousness: philosophy as conceptual
    inquiry and philosophy as poietic (forming/making) activity. The overall scheme,
    from the perspective of the philosopher as thinker, looks something like this:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/argument-003_5140.jpg]
    \r\nThis scheme can be understood as an answer to the question: \u201CHow does
    the philosopher become a sage?\u201D \r\n\r\nThe question from the perspective
    of the philosopher as maker would be \u201CHow do the things I make tell me what
    and who I am?\u201D, which would (somewhat chaotically) like this:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/argument-001_3568.jpg]
    \r\n\r\nLastly the philosopher as slave or servant would ask, \u201CHow do I dialectically
    oppose the opposition between mastery and slavery?\u201D The answer overlaps in
    all cases; Koj\xE8ve would say the answers are identical, but this is not precise.\r\n\r\nI
    should note that the schema of presenting this as three questions and three different
    diagrams or schemas is not to be found in this form in Koj\xE8ve\u2019s text.
    But I think that, as I said earlier, one can deduce them given his conception
    of man as self-consciousness and his basic terminology. This is a pretty scant
    overview of the thesis I\u2019m working on, but I am halfway through the section
    so I can\u2019t really provide too many details about the whole thing. The important
    point for typophiles is that Koj\xE8ve seems to present a conception of philosophy
    that demands the philosopher to be as contemplative about the methods by which
    he incarnates his thought as the thought itself, for they are dialectically related
    in this argument. Koj\xE8ve argues that wisdom, ultimately, must appear in the
    book form, because only a physical incarnation of thought can dialectically overcome
    the opposition between spirit and nature which parallels the overcoming of the
    opposition between mastery and slavery and between eternity and time. (Does that
    ever need unpacking!) As a philosopher who desires wisdom, only by incarnating
    my full thought concerning self-consciousness in its both aspect can I make progress
    toward the goal of self-knowledge. \r\n\r\nAt this point I should probably suggest
    I don\u2019t post any more of this stuff in the general discussions. However,
    as I develop my rough sketches of diagrams, I would greatly appreciate feedback
    from anyone who cares to examine them. This will take place on my blog. \r\n"
  created: '2009-02-10 06:58:22'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Well, I don't know Koj\xE8ve, but I fear you are getting into a muddle from
    which there is no exit--and for all I know Koj\xE8ve is already there. \r\n\r\nIf
    you are going to get anywhere productive, I think you need to look at the problem
    Koj\xE8ve was trying to solve. Are there competing theories of what a sage is?
    What are the conflicts? Why do the folks who advocate becoming a sage think it
    is a good thing?\r\n\r\nThese kinds of questions look at the 'problem situation'
    (from the German: problemstellung), and can be very helpful in giving you guidance.
    \r\n\r\nSo far as I know, academic philosophers are not generally regarded as
    sages. More typically folks like the Confucius, Buddha, Epictetus, and Hillel
    are called sages. And this name is given because they have some insight into ethics
    and the conduct of life, not just mystical insight. \r\n\r\nYou may get into something
    very interesting with this, but there is a real danger in landing in a bucket
    of B.S.  "
  created: '2009-02-10 22:50:56'
- author:
    name: nepenthe
    picture: 109675
  body: I continued this discussion in a [[http://typophile.com/node/54648|blog thread,
    54648]]. Thanks for your feedback everyone. I hope I continue to receive your
    criticism and suggestions!
  created: '2009-02-11 01:35:38'
date: '2009-02-09 09:31:05'
title: The design and non-design of philosophical papers

---
