---
author:
  name: scottsullivan
  picture: 115949
body: "Okay, for the sake of conversation, let's just assume that I'm not a complete
  moron: I've been having this deep and painful obsession with COOPER BLACK for a
  good five months now.. it haunts me in my dreams and I want to put it in every single
  project that comes my way, I just think it's beautiful (even center justified).
  \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cooper_4036.jpg]\r\n\r\nAll of my designer
  friends and professors have been making fun of me NON STOP! So am I just crazy??
  My professors say that I don't get it because I was born 1985 and was not around
  when it was most popular.. so after I graduate to the real world and you guys see
  me when you meet up for your lavish champagne and cocaine fueled black tie parties,
  are you gonna kick me out if I can't shake this thing?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Yehan
    picture: 112677
  body: ">are you gonna kick me out if I can\u2019t shake this thing?\r\n\r\nLOL.
    Yes.\r\n\r\nSeriously though, I'm not sure I would want to put it into every project
    I do...but it has it's uses. I USED to like it too..for awhile...long long ago
    (pre design school days, when I also thought bradley hand was a nice font)\r\n\r\nI
    actually like the curves and feel of it, but it's so...out of place for most things.
    So I've given up on it, UNLESS the right project comes along."
  created: '2009-02-10 08:32:27'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Scott, I am almost afraid to mention Souvenir in front of you :-|
  created: '2009-02-10 09:09:58'
- author:
    name: Yehan
    picture: 112677
  body: Haha..oh God. I draw the line at Souvenir. All I can say is thankfully we
    don't see it anymore.
  created: '2009-02-10 09:14:45'
- author:
    name: skeetone
    picture: 111380
  body: "...Yes... don't we all just... hate Cooper...?\r\n\r\n\r\n<---  (quietly
    pointing at my picture, I do like it as well, don't tell anyone!)"
  created: '2009-02-10 09:38:01'
- author:
    name: AtoZ
    picture: 116285
  body: "Scott,\r\n\r\nPeople can be attracted to / enthusiastic over / obsessed with
    almost anything. \r\n\r\nThink about what attracts one person to another -- there's
    an incredibly wide range of possibilities: some people only like blondes, others
    only like redheads; some like people who are skinny, others only like people who
    are heavy; etc. There no right or wrong -- it's a matter of personal taste. However,
    there are some commonly accepted ranges of what constitutes good looks, and if
    you want a career as say, a casting director, and you only want to cast chubby
    redheads (because that what attracts you), you may expect to have problems finding
    work. \r\n\r\nThe same reasoning applies to fonts. As hard as it is for me to
    admit, there is nothing wrong with being obsessed with Cooper Black, but you can't
    expect others to feel the same. \r\n\r\nYour best bet is to become a closet Cooper
    Black addict. Wallpaper your bedroom in Cooper Black specimen sheets, collect
    books with Cooper Black covers -- do whatever you want in the privacy of your
    own home, even share your obsession with friends (but don't expect much enthusiasm
    from most of them). \r\n\r\nWhen it comes to your professional life, strive to
    always pick the best typeface for the job (not for your personal taste). And who
    knows, one day maybe the perfect job will come along that will just demand Cooper
    Black.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<em>When
    going from </em>A to Z,\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<em>I
    often end up </em>At Oz."
  created: '2009-02-10 09:44:06'
- author:
    name: Yehan
    picture: 112677
  body: Now that sounds like good advice:D
  created: '2009-02-10 12:59:43'
- author:
    name: paulstonier
    picture: 114324
  body: Cooper Black makes me smile.
  created: '2009-02-10 13:38:40'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: There are design groups that use a single font almost exclusively. Taking
    the unloved and unwanted and presenting it in a way that makes people rethink
    their prejudice is admirable and enviable if not always possible.
  created: '2009-02-10 13:48:45'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "For you, Scott -- from the 1925 catalog of the original foundry, Barnhart
    Brothers & Spindler:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CooperBlack_SykoLogic_6121.gif]"
  created: '2009-02-10 13:53:32'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "And remember . . . \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CooperBlack_looksbest_4245.gif]"
  created: '2009-02-10 13:58:18'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "I can understand Scott's obsession perfectly, for I had it to a lesser degree
    40 years ago, when I was just a few years younger than he. I was an apprentice
    hand compositor in a shop that had a full range of mats for Ludlow Black, which
    was an interpretation of Cooper Black.\r\n\r\nWhat did I not set in Ludlow Black
    when I was allowed use of the Ludlow machine on my own time? I set damn near everything
    in Black: friends' wedding announcements and invites, letterheads, the envelopes
    in which I returned correspondence school geography lessons to the university
    of Iowa, family letterheads. You name it. \r\n\r\nAs Kent's examples show, Cooper
    offers good instruction in how to think about word space and leading that work
    best with a face. I did not realize it at the time, but I was in fact studying
    those aspects of typography as I used Black.\r\n\r\nEventually I moved on and
    forsook Black. My next love was Ludlow Garamond, which offered very different
    challenges. Soon enough I moved to a Monotype shop and then my young eyes really
    opened.\r\n\r\nSo go for it Scott: use it but don't abuse it. Black is great for
    early lessons. Maybe you will unlock some Black secrets and show us new ways.\r\n\r\npowers "
  created: '2009-02-10 14:27:10'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "A few of Steven Heller's books have used Cooper Black, either on the cover
    or inside -- albeit as a kind of shorthand for humor or lightheartedness...\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Design-Humor-Art-Graphic-Wit/dp/1581152469/sr=8-11/qid=1160504027/ref=pd_bbs_11/002-1170108-4048008?ie=UTF8&s=books\"><em>Design
    Humor: The Art of Graphic Wit</em></a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Teaching-Illustration-Steven-Heller/dp/1581154666/sr=1-1/qid=1161702978/ref=sr_1_1/102-1919535-3234547?ie=UTF8&s=books\"><em>Teaching
    Illustration</em></a>\r\n\r\n----------\r\n\r\n<em>Scott, I am almost afraid to
    mention Souvenir in front of you</em>\r\n\r\nLOL! For the record, back in 1986,
    when I was at university in Buenos Aires, we started a student design magazine
    (which lasted only three issues!). We wanted to avoid Times New Roman for the
    text face, because we'd heard that it could print with gaps... We ended up going
    with <a href=\"http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/adobe/itc-souvenir/\">Souvenir</a>.
    :-D"
  created: '2009-02-10 17:44:27'
- author:
    name: scottsullivan
    picture: 115949
  body: "Hey! Thanks guys! hah I'll keep it down and wait for the perfect opportunity
    to let 'er loose. and Souvenir is officially on my shopping list!!\r\n\r\n- Scott"
  created: '2009-02-10 21:04:03'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cooper_5199.jpg]'
  created: '2009-02-10 21:55:06'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Hey Scott,\r\n\r\nGood for you; I am also a real fan of good ol' Cooper.
    I tried to convince my publisher to use it on the cover of my book, but I didn't
    win this battle. Though I am seeing more and more \"trendy\" books sporting this
    wonderful typeface, which makes me happy and smile too. When you are tired of
    Cooper Black, you might take a look at Souvenir, as mentioned, or Goudy Black
    (the shameful rip-off from FW Goudy), or Soap, or Supercooper, or Rosemary...
    And you might also sigh at the view of this wonderful handwriting example of Oz
    Cooper, basically Cooper Black but with more freedom and more je-ne-sais-quoi.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/coopmove_6420_4730.gif]\r\n\r\nLong
    life to Cooper Black, a truely beautiful typeface.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2009-02-10 22:03:56'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "And also...\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CooperHand_5876.jpg]\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2009-02-10 22:06:54'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "More Eye Candy\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1453-3_5499.JPG]\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/412030366_3ee26752d0_o_6598.jpg]\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2009-02-10 22:12:49'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "And some examples of great design with Cooper Black, from the sixties till
    now (in order to prove that the typeface IS great, the problem is usally the designer).\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/petsounds_3884.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/obrien_6151.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fatpig_4947.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sinclar_4809.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/spicentice1_6366.jpg]\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2009-02-10 22:16:19'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Now that Cooper Black and Souvenir are here again, can I have my sex life
    back, please?
  created: '2009-02-10 22:23:38'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: "<em>@ David R.:</em> The <em>Girl with Green Eyes</em> type is Souvenir.
    \r\n<em>@ scottsullivan:</em> Have you ever used [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/bitstream/cooper/light/|Cooper
    Light?]]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cooperlight_5153.gif]\r\nThis
    probably won't cure your addiction, but it will make life easier for the folks
    who read the stuff you design."
  created: '2009-02-10 23:43:28'
- author:
    name: Nachos
    picture: 116245
  body: Scott, I still listen to Styx. Why does everyone think I have bad taste?
  created: '2009-02-11 00:58:58'
- author:
    name: Yehan
    picture: 112677
  body: Cooper light? It's not bad actually...
  created: '2009-02-11 03:42:56'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: 'I never before realised that type works like immunisation: once you develop
    antibodies to Shatter, Calypso, Sinaloa, Good Vibrations, Cooper Black, Souvenir
    and Optima, there is no going back ... huh.'
  created: '2009-02-11 04:33:57'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "The complete Bitstream Cooper series (Light, Medium, Bold, Black) is quite
    cool. I\u2019m surprised it doesn\u2019t get more use\u2014especially because
    it comes with Corel Draw!"
  created: '2009-02-11 04:47:51'
- author:
    name: scottsullivan
    picture: 115949
  body: "@ paragraph: I'll trade you a sweet sex life for a sweet career/portfolio\r\n\r\n-
    Scott"
  created: '2009-02-11 05:39:07'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: You are quite right, Scott. You are starting in interesting times, as the
    Chinese curse says ...
  created: '2009-02-11 08:45:16'
- author:
    name: mauphie
    picture: 110791
  body: "Designer Armin Vit (of Under Consideration) created his own homage to [[http://www.underconsideration.com/cooper/|Cooper
    Black]].\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-11 20:23:20'
- author:
    name: chrisherron
    picture: 116711
  body: "And of course, there's the Behind the Music spoof on Cooper Black.\r\nhttp://www.veer.com/ideas/btt/\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-11 22:32:20'
- author:
    name: scottsullivan
    picture: 115949
  body: "WOAHH!! the behind the music spoof is AMAZING haha\r\n\r\n- Scott"
  created: '2009-02-12 06:03:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/g-horns_5554.jpg]\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-12 06:20:20'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "Always wanted to use it, but never found the courage.\r\nGuess I am not man
    enough to handle Cooper Black :(\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2009-02-12 22:15:40'
- author:
    name: "Kellie Str\xF8m"
    picture: 111448
  body: Cooper Light? Not the real thing - you want Cooper Oldstyle. <a href="http://www.sadiethepilot.com/aaweb/blogpix4/cooper_oldstyle_xl.jpg">This
    is it</a>, but <a href="http://www.sadiethepilot.com/aaweb/blogpix4/cooper_oldstyle_faux.jpg">this
    is not</a>.
  created: '2009-02-13 01:55:43'
- author:
    name: someonesplendid
  body: always loved the cooper quote "the far-sighted printers with near-sighted
    customers". :)
  created: '2009-02-13 08:33:29'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Kellie, is there a good digital version of Cooper Oldstyle? That looks very
    yummy!\r\n\r\nI admit to having a weakness for Black as well. It's just very\u2026
    70s. And reminds me of ads in old issues of Playboy magazine.\r\nThanks for this
    thread \u2013 now I've been seeing it everywhere again.&nbsp;&nbsp;:-)"
  created: '2009-02-13 08:40:46'
- author:
    name: puffmoike
  body: "Not forgetting Khoi Vinh's homage...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/prod-cooperblack_5160.jpg]"
  created: '2009-02-13 11:01:09'
- author:
    name: "Kellie Str\xF8m"
    picture: 111448
  body: I don't know of a good commercially available Cooper Oldstyle. For my <a href="http://www.sadiethepilot.com">picture
    book</a> Dutch designer <a href="http://airforceamazons.blogspot.com/2008/06/beau-hunks-back-room-boy.html">Piet
    Schreuders</a> used a customised version of a digitisation that's no longer commercially
    available, adding Cooper's ligatures and brackets. Well, I didn't need the brackets,
    and unfortunately the entertainingly twisted ff ligature was dropped from the
    US edition. You can see more extensive use of the face by Piet in his occasional
    magazine <a href="http://www.isntlifeterrible.com/2007/08/tour-of-hal-roach-culver-city-laurel.html">Furore</a>.
  created: '2009-02-13 12:42:48'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Wow, great stuff \u2013 thanks. \r\nThe \"ff\" ligature is\u2026 funky indeed!
    I also really like the numerals.\r\nWhatever happened to that digitization that
    isn't available any more \u2013 legal issues?"
  created: '2009-02-13 15:05:43'
- author:
    name: Micha Mirck
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Scan10001_5153.JPG]\r\n\r\nThis is the
    ligature, and it was used in Lay-in, Lay-out, by Piet Schreuders.\r\n\r\n\r\n[[http://www.uitgeverijdebuitenkant.nl/beheer/upload/200508150922400.Lay-in.jpg]]\r\n\r\nI
    wonder if anyone can guess the font used on the cover of that book."
  created: '2009-02-13 15:07:34'
- author:
    name: JeffPeppers
    picture: 129498
  body: "let's not forget: \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lawoman_6453.jpg]\r\nbleh,
    all caps? really?\r\n\r\nmaybe you can ween yourself off with\r\nhttp://www.linotype.com/273609/aurea-family.html\r\nand
    then move on to clarendon?"
  created: '2009-02-13 16:27:07'
- author:
    name: gregruffa
    picture: 116734
  body: "Gregory Ruffa\r\ngrapublish@aol.com\r\n\r\nHere is some information about
    that COOPER BLACK, the older type vets may know all this, but this could add a
    few bits to better\r\nunderstand the type style. \r\n\r\nOswald Bruce Cooper designed
    the face in 1921, released by Bernhart Brothers & Spindler of Chicago in 1922.
    The style began to appear everywhere, Oz Cooper attempted to patent the design
    and failed because it resembled a design in a logo. The type face\r\nremained
    prominent as late as the 1970s.  \r\n\r\nThe rest of you can take it from there.
    Have Fun!!!"
  created: '2009-02-13 21:11:38'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>I wonder if anyone can guess the font used on the cover of that book.</em>\r\n\r\nWoah!
    Was there a Cooper Black Handtooled??? Or was the cover title a custom job?"
  created: '2009-02-15 01:33:39'
- author:
    name: "Kellie Str\xF8m"
    picture: 111448
  body: <a href="http://www.sadiethepilot.com/aaweb/blogpix4/cooper_hilite.jpg">Cooper
    Hilite</a> from The Book of Oz Cooper.
  created: '2009-02-15 02:18:36'
- author:
    name: George Thomas
  body: "The Font Company had a version of Cooper Oldstyle which had four weights
    (L-M-D-B) with the original design for the italics. If I remember correctly, Precision
    Type bought the Font Company library, but they are also out of business. If you
    can find a Precision Type reseller they may still be able to sell you the original
    Cooper Oldstyle from The Font Company.\r\n\r\nAlso, I must comment that I still
    cannot understand why many designers do not like Souvenir. Although I don't use
    it that often, I do find uses for it occasionally."
  created: '2009-02-15 03:17:13'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Thanks for that image of Cooper Hilite, Kellie... Beautiful sample.
  created: '2009-02-16 03:58:18'
- author:
    name: nepenthe
    picture: 109675
  body: "For some reason, Cooper Black was used on the cover of this philosophy book
    I have on my shelf:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/buber-cover_3978.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nA
    stark contrast from what one usually sees! "
  created: '2009-02-16 23:41:45'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: ":-)\r\n\r\nThat cover is part of Continuum's <a href=\"http://www.continuumbooks.com/Series/default.aspx?SeriesID=1925&ImprintID=2&CountryID=1\">\"Impacts\"</a>
    series... a treasure trove for the Cooper Black-loving typophile."
  created: '2009-02-17 00:51:18'
- author:
    name: scottsullivan
    picture: 115949
  body: "oh yeah! I forgot, I have the Fromm book from that series!! yesssssss\r\n\r\n-
    Scott"
  created: '2009-02-17 01:19:21'
- author:
    name: scottsullivan
    picture: 115949
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fromm_6296.png]\r\n\r\n- Scott"
  created: '2009-02-17 01:25:53'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "For anyone interested, and to continue Greg Ruffa's post, here is a somewhat
    more detailed background info about the typeface and Oz Cooper:\r\n\r\nOswald
    \"Oz\" Bruce Cooper was born on april 13th, 1879 in Mount Gilead, in Ohio - USA.
    At 15 he moves to Chicago and decides to become an illustrator; to do so, he enters
    the Frank Holme school where he will become friends with another student, William
    A. Dwiggins, and also with his handlettering teacher, Frederic W. Goudy. After
    a few weeks Oz Cooper understands he's far better in lettering than drawing, and
    he actually becomes lettering teacher himself in that very school for 2 years
    before the school closes, out of money.\r\n\r\nHe then associates with an illustrator,
    Fred S. Bertsch, and together they create the advertising agency Bertsch & Cooper
    in Chicago in Chicago in 1904. Thay both travel in Europe in 1912 and they discover
    many things there including the curvy and organic Art Nouveau, which will have
    a strong influence on their work. In 1913, Oz Cooper draws an alphabet to use
    it in an ad for the engine company Packard, and soon after sells this typeface
    through ATF; in 1914, the Bertsch & Cooper agency, which is very successful and
    has 50 employees, officially adds \"typeface design\" to its range of services.\r\n\r\nOz
    Cooper, at this time, is used to write his own lettering at the time, on his correspondance
    notes and business cards: a roman alphabet very bold with rounded serif, influenced
    by what he discovered in England and France. He understand its commercial possibilities
    and makes it a typeface in 1921, naming it Cooper Black. The typeface is distributed
    by Barnhart Brothers & Spindler in 1922 and bought by Schriftguss AG in Dresde
    (Germany) in 1924, who will add an italic. The same year, Oz Cooper sells his
    shares of Bertsch & Cooper and begins to work freelance.\r\n\r\nThe advertising,
    which is growing every year in the newspapers, gets a grip on Cooper Black and
    uses it extensively, because of its very strong personnality and the way it stands
    out of a page; therefore, very quickly, every founder in town releases its own
    version of Cooper Black: Bitstream Cooper, Ludlow Black, Burlesque, Plymouth,
    and even Goudy Heavyface, made by Frederic Goudy, the teacher and friend of Oz
    Cooper, who is bitterly disappointed. Cooper tries to register his design, but
    the National Commission rejects his request; he contests the decision and wins
    the case in 1930, but the commission fights back in 1931 and declares that Cooper
    Black is too close to the typeface used in the logo of the construction company
    Asbestone. Oz Cooper gives up, tired and sick. He will work a little more (he
    will for example create the new graphic standards of the Chicago Daily News),
    before dying from cancer on december 17th 1940, aged 61. Sinbce then, all his
    drawings and sketches are at the Newberry Library in Chicago.\r\n\r\nIn the following
    years, Oz Cooper is not here anymore to promote Cooper Black, which falls into
    oblivion while Futura, Kabel and the others geometric designs are reaching stardom
    and domination. In 1966, the graphic designer Tommy Steele is working on the Beach
    Boys' Pet Sounds album cover, and finds Cooper Black in an old book; the typeface's
    curves and flower-like joy fits perfectly with the summer of love to come, and
    he decides to use it. The album is a hit smash, and instantly, Cooper Black becomes
    the 8th wonder, first on pop rock disc covers, then everywhere, becoming one of
    the visual reference of the era and its ideology. Everyone wants it: Frank Zappa,
    The Doors, Robert Crumb, Garfield, Dr Pepper, Burger King, Payless Shoesource,
    Quality Inn... It becomes available on precut stickers, multiplies on cheap shops,
    and at the beginning of 1980, turns into a cheapo, ugly type that nobody wants
    to use anymore; in 1990-1995, it hits rock bottom, and is the universal synonym
    of cheapness (Easyjet understands it very well).\r\n\r\nIt's only at the beginnig
    of 2000 that talented graphic designers and typographers will bring it back from
    the grave and use it in inspired designs, but it's still uneasy because of his
    very heavy burden, and requires a large amount of skill and sensibility. Some
    new designs inspired by Oz Cooper early sketches also appeared in the last 10
    years, including Rosemary by Chank Diesel.\r\n\r\nAnd that's all folks, more or
    less faithfully translated from my own book.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2009-02-17 10:09:50'
- author:
    name: rcc
    picture: 112031
  body: "Used to be all but smitten by Cooper Black, but weened myself off, ever so
    gradually. Still reach for Motter Corpus now and again, too. Am trying hard to
    reform. ;)\r\n\r\n@DavidR: Love that eye candy. Thanks."
  created: '2009-02-17 11:31:22'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "rcc: you're welcome.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2009-02-17 14:25:39'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Including Bitstream in your list looks anachronistic as Goudy is a contemporary
    of Cooper, but Bitstream was only founded in 1981, the first digital type foundry.  '
  created: '2009-02-17 14:41:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "David, thank you for that!\r\nIs your book in French? What's the title?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-17 19:16:03'
- author:
    name: scottsullivan
    picture: 115949
  body: "WOW David R! Thanks!!\r\n\r\n- Scott"
  created: '2009-02-17 20:38:28'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "William: you are right, this is a relecture mistake, forgot to rule it out.\r\n\r\nHrant:
    the book is in french indeed, its title is \"guide pratique de choix typographique\",
    it will be released by Perrousseaux in France, Switzerland, Belgium and Canada
    on march 19th. I hope to release it in english some day.\r\n\r\nhere are two links
    if you want to take a look:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.adverbum.fr/index.php?&moid=12&oid=T001:eyijbgdfg1t74b7mum9ld36&tplentry=br&function=display&insidefile=livre_detail.html&rub=T003:45fx7tndfg1t74bfyk9fmvmmk\r\n\r\nhttp://www.davidrault.com/guidetypo/\r\n\r\nScott:
    you're welcome.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2009-02-17 21:23:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Not so sure about the <em>Pet Sounds</em> theory.\r\nNot all Cooper Black
    was melted down, for instance it was still included in the Mono-Lino (Toronto
    typesetting company) type catalog in 1952.\r\n\r\nAnd this from <em>Playboy</em>,
    1965, which had a circulation of 5 or 6 million at the time:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Cooper_6739.jpg]"
  created: '2009-02-17 22:07:53'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: '"I read <em>Playboy</em> for the fonts..."'
  created: '2009-02-17 23:50:54'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"And this from Playboy\"</em>\r\nYes! Nick, thanks for confirming the
    old Playboy ad connotation. I wasn't sure that was actual, or imagined \u2013
    it could have been, with these voluptuous curves\u2026 :-)"
  created: '2009-02-17 23:53:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "David, may I please contact you by email?\r\nIf so, mine is: hpapazian at
    gmail dot com\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-18 01:05:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>the old Playboy ad connotation</em>\r\n\r\nWell, <em>Playboy</em> is
    my go-to source for 1960s American advertising, with all the best \"Big Idea\"
    ads, but I'm sure the Teacher's ad would have run in other publications. I also
    have a few <em>Sports Illustrated</em>s. This 100% Cooper (except for the horizontal
    rule) ad from 1964:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cooper2_4570.jpg]\r\nD'ya
    like the kerning on that period?\r\n\r\n<em>...voluptuous curves...</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    fashionable female form was straight as a plank when Oz designed the face..."
  created: '2009-02-18 06:13:00'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"D\u2019ya like the kerning on that period?\"</em>\r\nIt's a \"quotobang\"!
    :-)\r\n\r\n<em>\"The fashionable female form was straight as a plank\"</em>\r\nUm.\r\nMaybe
    people consequently projected their hidden & repressed curve-lust on type?! ;-)"
  created: '2009-02-18 10:13:45'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: Great stuff, Nick. I love the way you always have such nice real world examples.
    How do you manage it?
  created: '2009-02-18 11:39:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Maybe people consequently projected their hidden & repressed curve-lust
    on type?! ;-)</em>\r\n\r\nThat's what I was thinking, although I haven't seen
    any pictures of Mrs Cooper. Zaftig, I suspect :-)\r\n\r\n<em>How do you manage
    it?</em>\r\n\r\nI've been collecting magazines for many years, mainly to develop
    an understanding of the history of my line of work (I was an ad agency art director),
    as it is not taught at school or in history books, except obliquely. The major
    (in terms of circulation) American magazines, Saturday Evening Post, Life, Playboy,
    Esquire, Time, and other collectibles such as Fortune, are readily available in
    old paper shows and shops. I've also dedicated part of my studio as a library,
    so that's it's easy to put my finger on stuff quickly.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-18 20:18:40'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "To go on with Nick's last post, I've always been myself fond of collecting
    magazines for the type used in their ads, and it has always been very profitable
    to my own understanding of the society and the graphic design / advertising world
    in general. Esquire and Playboy are ranking in the firsts, but I unfortunately
    don't have a lot because I didn't grow up in America. Thanks to Taschen and their
    American Ads series, I now have some really good ones at hand. On the other hand
    I have a lot of french magazines from 1960's - 1980's, and they are priceless
    in what they bring to me.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2009-02-19 09:11:03'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>It\u2019s a \u201Cquotobang\u201D! :-)</em>\r\n\r\nHa! Good one."
  created: '2009-02-20 03:16:29'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: 'Just noticed this on MyFonts: <a href="http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/lettering-delights/txt-fat-hatch/">TXT
    Fat Hatch</a>, a hand-shaded rendering of Cooper Black.'
  created: '2009-02-26 14:08:29'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/pietschreuders/3312933935/in/photostream/\">Cooper
    Black ad from The American Printer, issue dated July 5, 1922</a> \u2013 seen on
    <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/pietschreuders/\">Piet Schreuder\u2019s
    Flickr site</a>."
  created: '2009-02-28 15:20:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: That ad must have really pissed off Oz--the headline is horribly done.
  created: '2009-02-28 19:48:02'
- author:
    name: gregruffa
    picture: 116734
  body: "Gregory Ruffa\r\ngrapublish@aol.com\r\n\r\nFilling in with David R wood type,
    this is a Cooper that I think is beautiful in its look and feel in wood.\r\nNot
    my favorite style, but beautiful in its own right. Agree?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Cooper_4232.jpg]"
  created: '2009-03-03 03:40:22'
date: '2009-02-10 06:34:27'
node_type: forum
title: Cooper Black is my homeboy

---
