---
author:
  name: blank
body: "\u2022 This face is based on painted square caps found in Washington, DC.\r\n\u2022
  The masters in the PDF are weights 100 and 1000.\r\n\u2022 I don\u2019t plan on
  releasing as many weights as appear in the PDF, these are faces I\u2019m comparing
  to decide what weights to use.\r\n\u2022 1100 is an extrapolation. I\u2019m planning
  to manually thicken it to having almost no counters and then use the result to create
  one or two superheavy weights between 1000 and itself.\r\n\u2022 I\u2019m not sure
  if the lightest weights are even worth using. If you think they\u2019re horrible
  and I should just focus on the big end, let me know.\r\n\u2022 Feedback on the figures
  would be especially appreciated, as I know it\u2019s one of my weakest areas.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/NSG_Typo_One_6062.png]"
comments:
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: "Did you say this is an \"original font release\"?\r\nhttp://fontbureau.com/fonts/Clicker\r\n\r\nFirst
    you released an unnecessary revival of Eagle when there is a very good existing
    version of the face:\r\nhttp://fontbureau.com/fonts/Eagle\r\n\r\nWhat is with
    you and Font Bureau? And which of their faces are you going to redesign next?\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-11 18:22:39'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: This is very different from Clicker, imo.
  created: '2009-02-11 18:56:02'
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: No lowercase. Yes, it's completely different. Just like Recovery. No lowercase.
  created: '2009-02-11 19:03:42'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>http://fontbureau.com/fonts/Clicker</cite>\r\n\r\nI\u2019ve never seen
    Clicker before. And there\u2019s no small number of differences between the two.
    And my Eagle revival was based on the ATF metal version, not FB Eagle. The only
    connection between myself and the Font Bureau crew is that we share an affection
    for twentieth-century American letters. And Font Bureau is hardly the only foundry
    to release types in this mode; there are at least three other revivals of Eagle."
  created: '2009-02-11 19:12:57'
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: Well, now that you have seen Clicker will you re-think your NS Gothic? Also,
    you seem to acknowledge your debt to United; does this not make you question whether
    publishing NS Gothic is such an "original" and professional move?
  created: '2009-02-11 19:17:45'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: Looks promising. I'm not sure about the no lowercase idea though. New Guy,
    if you think this looks like a rip-off of Clicker your eyes haven't developed
    enough. Type design is all about the details, if you can't spot them it's your
    fault.
  created: '2009-02-11 19:30:05'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Well, now that you have seen Clicker will you re-think your NS Gothic?</cite>\r\n\r\nNo,
    because there are also similarities to the majuscules of Eurostile, City, Agency,
    Univers, Franklin Gothic, Museo and other fonts that I referenced when working
    on this one. As for United, what, nobody else ever gets to publish an all caps
    face in multiple weights just because someone else did? Should everybody stop
    drawing multi-weight sans families because of Univers? Should the development
    of serif families have stopped in the 1930s when ATF and Linotype were done expanding
    Cheltenham?\r\n\r\nWhen I said this was an original I design, I meant that I sat
    down and designed all the characters myself without basing the design on an existing
    face. I even worked without a reference photo of the painted lettering that gave
    me the idea. And I think that is original. No it isn\u2019t a paradigm shift or
    some unprecedented idea like Frutiger was, but I\u2019m not claiming it is."
  created: '2009-02-11 19:32:20'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Maybe I have tomatoes stuck on my eyes (German expression) but hello, NewGuy,
    I think you owe James an apology. If you can't see the differences between Clicker
    and NS Gothic beyond the lack of a lowercase in the latter, you should go and
    have a look at the over-populated field of squarish sansserifs where you'll find
    tons of fonts where you'll have look way closer than here to find differences.
    That'll train your eyes, too.
  created: '2009-02-11 19:34:38'
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: With an "over-populated field of squarish sansserifs" do we really need another?
  created: '2009-02-11 19:53:40'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: ":-|\r\nRepost somewhere else? I was starting to take notes and would have
    loved to comment. For the record, I for one do think it looks interesting, and
    promising. Don't let this one guy spoil it for you."
  created: '2009-02-11 20:32:38'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Back to the font design...\r\n\r\n<em>\u2022 I\u2019m not sure that 100 really
    represents a good starting point. Should this face start at a heavier weight?</em>\r\n\r\nMaybe
    so - at the lightest weight the change in weight that happens on the strokes with
    a curved outside contour and a straight counter (e.g.. top/bottom of the round
    letters) is a little distracting, though perhaps with a touch less weight and
    a touch less overshoot they might work. But the blockiness really shows well in
    the thicker cuts.\r\n\r\n<em>\u2022 I am especially interested in knowing what
    people think of the figures and the letter B</em>\r\n\r\nThe figures, again, work
    better as the weight gets heavier, in general. If you didn't already, I might
    try reversing the straights/curves on the bowls of 3 and 5 to see how that looks
    (so the curve is on the lower side and the bottom is flat, compare P). A 2 that
    looks more like a backwards S might be worth trying, too. My eye kind of wants
    an upper serif on 3 (compare 2 or C) to fill in that counter space (same on 7
    would be a possibility).\r\n\r\n4's diagonal looks slight to me throughout. I
    like 6 and 9 in the heavy weights a lot.\r\n\r\nB seems out of character - that
    notch seems like it's from another font (true of & too), and I expect the counters
    to have a curved side like PR. I'd look for another solution. \r\n\r\nB also seems
    very close to 8, and D to O, but I can see the argument that in a display face
    like this context will usually sort out those confusions.\r\n\r\n\xA7 is a nice
    solution; \xA3 needs work.\r\n\r\nRe: lowercase, I can see the blockiness of this
    arguing for a caps-only font. But I can also see the quasi-hexagonal foundation
    of it fitting lowercase letterforms well (think of fraktur minuscules). "
  created: '2009-02-11 20:36:40'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: What Nina said! Bring it back!
  created: '2009-02-11 20:43:14'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: James (newguy), I think you could have phrased your critique differently.
    Or you could have simply followed the old "if you don't have anything nice to
    say..." Either way, I agree that you owe James an apology.
  created: '2009-02-11 20:52:21'
- author:
    name: bemerx25
    picture: 112539
  body: A bit sour there NewGuy and not very "helpful" in any sense of the word. Puckett,
    please bring it back.
  created: '2009-02-11 20:58:41'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "?!\xBF\xA1 need a bit more space between shapes. \r\n\r\n{} are counter-intuitive.
    No trace of the treatment you're giving the rest.\r\n\r\n\xA7 is very cool, but
    not very evident.\r\n\r\nC might benefit from a smaller counter opening."
  created: '2009-02-11 21:53:28'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: Shame I missed out on this one. Please put 'r back online...
  created: '2009-02-11 23:04:19'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: "<cite>With an \u201Cover-populated field of squarish sansserifs\u201D do
    we really need another?<cite>\r\n\r\nYes! I don't agree there's an over-population,
    but I happen to really like this \"genre\" of type design. I think we need more
    of all kinds of type, and I think it's presumptuous of anyone to suggest what
    should or shouldn't be designed. The more I look at type, the more I can appreciate
    the subtleties that go into each design to truly make it unique. "
  created: '2009-02-11 23:30:47'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Apologies: Simply bad wording on my part (about the over-populated field).
    \r\nI agree with everything Chris said."
  created: '2009-02-11 23:41:13'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Handpicked!\r\n\r\nNote: James has put his work back up for critique. We've
    already heard from the peanut gallery so let's move forward."
  created: '2009-02-12 22:58:20'
- author:
    name: chrisherron
    picture: 116711
  body: "Interesting design. With color and imagery, a graphic designer could really
    do a lot with this.\r\n\r\nThis is a bit nitpicky, but the characters with curves
    on the top and bottom (S, O, C) look a little tall to my eye (they might need
    more optical compensation?)."
  created: '2009-02-12 23:43:17'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Great to see this back online!\r\nSome comments (please have lots of salt
    ready):\r\n\r\nI very much like the basic idea and the consistent way you've thought
    it through. This has a bit of a Constructivist feel (or maybe I'm imagining things
    :-) ). I can see it working very well on posters and flyers, or maybe magazine
    headlines.\r\n\r\nI agree this gets really strong the bolder it gets, but I can
    see the usefulness of lighter ones as well. I wouldn't chuck out that 100 just
    yet.\r\n\r\nThe glyphs with the curved tops & bottoms are startling me slightly
    as well. Do they look tall? The \"C\" definitely seems larger than the \"D\".
    Maybe those could do with a bit less overshoot?\r\n\r\nYou asked about the \"B\",
    and in fact it was the first thing that caught my eye. I was wondering why it
    didn't have the curves that \"S\" has. I see you did the same thing in the \"8\"
    and the ampersands, but I agree with Craig that it looks a bit like it'd belong
    to another font. \r\n\r\nSpeaking of curves & angles, I was also wondering about
    the notch on the right side of the \"3\" \u2013 that looks *extremely* angular
    compared to say the \"6\" and \"2\". \r\nOn the other hand, I'm wondering if the
    curve on the bottom of the \"2\" may be too soft.\r\n\r\nThe \"J\" looks a bit
    clunky.\r\n\r\nI love the \"K\"!\r\n\r\nIs the \"M\" a bit too heavy? \r\n\r\nThe
    tail of the \"Q\" looks a bit like it's embarrassed to be there :-) (though less
    so in the bolder weights). It could be bolder in my eyes \u2013 not bolder as
    in heavier, but as in, more daring. Also, did you try a (more) horizontal terminal
    on that?\r\n\r\nThe \"W\" looks a bit uncomfortable in the heaviest weight. The
    bottom looks quite tapered, but the apex seems very dark. Can you still make it
    wider or would that be too much?\r\n\r\nI think the second ampersand fits better
    with the font \u2013 the first one looks a bit forced to me, and produces that
    awkward little corner on the inside. \r\nHow about making the top of the second
    ampersand curved?\r\n\r\nYou might try an Euro sign with just one crossbar. That's
    not standard / intended, but I believe it can read quite well, and would let you
    keep a bold weight on the crossbar. (I wouldn't know if that works for the Yen,
    too, though.)\r\n\r\nThanks for sharing this, James. I'm looking forward to seeing
    it progress. It does look yummy. :-)"
  created: '2009-02-13 00:17:14'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "For me this has a lot of problems. \r\n\r\nFirst, I don't see a coherent
    design. The DRP don't seem to have a reason to be flat on top and round on the
    side when the others are sort of the other way around. I say sort of because the
    verticals on the DRP are rounded inside and out, whereas the horizontals on the
    OSCG are round outside and straight inside. And the B is neither here nor there.
    \r\n\r\nSecond, the weights of the horizontal strokes on the OSCG seem to be clunky
    compared to the verticals that are straight on both sides. I don't know if this
    can be resolved by keeping the shapes and changing the weights, because the strokes
    are so different. \r\n\r\nMaybe you can make it work if you take the idea of the
    DRP and make the others consistent with it. \r\n\r\nBut in any case, I think this
    design would greatly benefit from being reworked to be more coherent. "
  created: '2009-02-13 01:04:29'
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: "\"NS Gothic is back\" and it still hasn't grown a reason for being. \r\n\r\nNow
    before you all get back on the hating bandwagon, I am just trying to ask the \"peanut
    gallery\" to consider this design as a design, and to discuss it not just formally
    but also conceptually. If the hundreds of \"type designers\" who \"publish\" work
    through MyFonts and other vanity presses would just consider why they are making
    what they are making, we could be experiencing a golden age of type. A review
    of this page -- http://new.myfonts.com/whatsnew/ -- is close to heartbreaking
    to a true typophile.\r\n\r\nNS Gothic, I maintain, looks like so much of the stuff
    in the \u201Cover-populated field of squarish sansserifs\u201D that its value
    to the graphic design community is nil, so talk of its publication is folly. By
    all means, complete the font -- use it as an exercise --  but why does every little
    half-formed idea and rough sketch have to be published? "
  created: '2009-02-13 03:22:08'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "So you would like to censor it and stop it from hatching?\r\nThe market can
    sort the \u2018whatsnew\u2019 page out, as it does every day.\r\n\r\nShortly,
    one of my own half-assed efforts will hit the page, and I truly hope it breaks
    your true typophile heart."
  created: '2009-02-13 06:23:36'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em> why does every little half-formed idea and rough sketch have to be published?</em>\r\n\r\nNewGuy,
    what are you talking about?! This is a critique board. This is exactly where I'd
    expect to find half-formed ideas and rough sketches! And *constructive* criticism
    geared to helping the designer improve them. \r\n\r\nI wouldn't even demand that
    your comments here be \"nice\", but if they're not both respectful and constructive,
    it really sours the thread."
  created: '2009-02-13 12:51:04'
- author:
    name: jmickel
    picture: 111302
  body: "New Guy, have you ever designed a font? Or are you just an armchair elitist
    'type genius'?\r\n\r\nDrop the attitude. It's lame."
  created: '2009-02-13 18:14:56'
- author:
    name: boardman
    picture: 110337
  body: "While one look at the MyFonts What's New Page is a bit heartbreaking (as
    it seems more amateur submissions get through every day), it would be a crime
    if folks on this board felt they'd be flamed for posting their ideas.\r\n\r\nJames,
    there are a lot of nice elements here. Congrats. I believe that the lightest weights
    aren't there yet, but the heaviest ones show promise."
  created: '2009-02-13 21:40:24'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "<em>we could be experiencing a golden age of type</em>\r\n\r\nWe are experiencing
    it, in my opinion. It\u2019s faster and easier than ever before to design a typeface.
    No more labouring in isolation over decades. For each great new typeface, there
    are many less great: that\u2019s how Golden Ages operate.\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-13 22:36:51'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "New Guy - we learn by \"failing\". Every design you make is likely to be
    something you later regret in some way or even completely simply because you learn
    more and have better insight. Without pretending to judge James' design in that
    this context I do think it is worth asking if your design adds something or is
    just a \"me too\" design. But not necessarily too early in the process. You have
    to have room to see where something ends up going. Let it run a little.\r\n\r\nJames
    - my take is that optically speaking if the curved forms begin their curves closer
    to the interior of the letters they will \"jump about\" less. Some of that jumpiness
    it their charm really so you would have to make a choice. But if you feel it's
    too much that might be one way to turn down the effect.\r\n\r\nWhat about letting
    the bottom bowl of the B be larger? I think a boxier top to the A will integrate
    with the others better. V too. Wider forms for split letters like s B R etc might
    work better too. Other letters too. If C is reference ( just for the sake of arguement
    ) Look at the K It might be the same width or wider but it feels narrower. So
    I would expand it's width a little.\r\n\r\nI don't know if this stuff will work
    but it might be worth a go."
  created: '2009-02-14 11:37:51'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Would you post/link to some images of your source/inspiration? I would love
    to see them.
  created: '2009-02-14 11:39:07'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I would add S to the list of letters to consider widening.
  created: '2009-02-14 13:42:06'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Eben, I\u2019ll try to get a shot but it\u2019s probably a lost cause. It\u2019s
    black-on-gray, twelve feet up in a dark corner of a room that\u2019s not well
    lit. \r\n\r\nWhat does everybody think about this design having softly rounded
    corners all around? I think that it could soften up the places where the curves
    hit hard edges and makes the whole thing feel less distracted and a pleasant in
    that worn out wood type kind of way. Here\u2019s a quick sample from the RoundingUFO
    demo:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sod_5572.png]"
  created: '2009-02-14 15:47:07'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Would it be crazy to try rounding the inside corners and leaving the outside
    corners sharp? Would make them as if the counters were carved with a router (speaking
    of wood).
  created: '2009-02-14 16:16:30'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Good point, Craig. I\u2019ll have to think about how to make it work on the
    diagonal letters, and it gets wonky on E and F, but I\u2019m pretty sure it could
    work."
  created: '2009-02-14 17:07:56'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: 'I like the minimally rounded corners, it really softens it up in a nice way.
    As an alternative to what Craig said - which is a good idea - inner: sharp, outer:
    rounded might work as well...'
  created: '2009-02-14 18:17:40'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "<short_interruption>\r\nYou won't name this face \"NS Gothic\", will you?!
    As a german, i've read \"NS Gothic is back\" as \"Die National-Sozialistische
    Gotische kommt zur\xFCck\" or s.th. like that. Might be personal paranoia only
    \u2026\r\n</short_interruption> "
  created: '2009-02-14 19:52:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "James,\r\nThere is a major struggle that comes with bolder weights of low
    contrast sans serifs. Take a look at your first line and the word \"INVISIBLE\"
    and you will see Shilow, The Marne, and Normandy's blood-stained battlefields.
    \ compare the N, B, S, V, E, & L. There is precious little room to accomodate
    the color problems with the stroke weight.\r\nThe N is too wide to feel at home
    with the rest but narrowing it brings the typical angle impingement of the diagonal.
    You will need some creative trickery to make a family resemblance out of that
    combination. Compare the crotch of the V with the N and see how they need to relate
    more. You solved the V by tapering the diagonals but this fights the monoline
    feel of the rest. The S and B are quite bolder than the rest and the horizontals
    on the E make for a tough sell next to the B perhaps the E then is too wide. I
    have done battle in this genre several times but still can't tell you an easy
    fix. I can only say that you have to cheat on stroke widths and sidebearings to
    get a happy marriage going. \r\nKeep at it, you may or may not find a good solution
    but whatever happens, you will certainly learn a great deal about type design
    in the process.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-02-15 04:40:00'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: 'I think it''s done. It''s a titling face so the color is as even as it would
    ever need to be. To me, it has a 20th Century signpainter look so how about a
    slightly casual companion face? Make the ends, not perfectly flush. Not in a "hey
    I''m sloppy" kind of way but more like something that was painted very carefully
    by hand. Try to visualize a baseball stadium in the 1940s with a sign painted
    like this, letters taller then you are on the outfield fence.  On the other hand,
    maybe the current version is fine the way it is in that context. Only one way
    to find out: Photoshop, some painty textures and a public domain picture of a
    baseball stadium or a goat. 720X360 (wink wink)'
  created: '2009-02-15 08:08:56'
- author:
    name: cschroeppel
    picture: 116864
  body: I had the same thought as poms before reading this thread, the name will probably
    cause trouble or at least make people in Germany wary of using the font.
  created: '2009-02-15 10:24:11'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: James, what is the 'RoundingUFO demo' you mentioned?
  created: '2009-02-15 11:55:54'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "james, i love it. i really like the idea of rounding the corners.\r\n\r\ni
    love the 3. \r\n\r\nin regard to weights, as a graphic designer i like having
    options and if you can make some fo the lighter weights work it would be very
    handy... especailly for things like logo's etc. maybe a superthin/hairline would
    work?\r\n\r\nanyway, the heavy weights are grey and with all the feedback above
    to consider i think this could be a great design."
  created: '2009-02-15 12:01:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I think the rounding helped a lot. I now can see why this interested you.
    I still think there is a lot to do to make it more unified, but if you pull it
    off it will be interesting and distinctive. '
  created: '2009-02-15 14:03:01'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>You won\u2019t name this face \u201CNS Gothic\u201D, will you?!</cite>\r\n\r\nNo,
    that\u2019s just what I\u2019m calling it until I finish it. The original painted
    letters read \u201CNO SMOKING BY ORDER OF DC FIRE MARSHALL\u201D, so I started
    calling it \u201CNo Smoking\u201D and then shortened it.\r\n\r\n<cite>I think
    it\u2019s done.</cite>\r\n\r\nThanks for the advice, Ray. You\u2019ve really nailed
    what I\u2019m working toward; a deliberately imperfect design, and sometimes it\u2019s
    hard to let go and not fight for the total normalization of features that often
    comes with digital type design. \r\n\r\n<cite>James, what is the \u2019RoundingUFO
    demo\u2019 you mentioned?</cite>\r\n\r\nRoundingUFO is an incredible tool that
    was designed to create to facilitate the design of Unit Rounded. It can round
    corners, bevel corners, or add inktraps to an entire font. And it\u2019s only
    \u20AC100. I haven\u2019t bought the full-version yet, but I\u2019m already planning
    a design that will utilize it. http://roundingufo.typemytype.com/ \r\n\r\n<cite>maybe
    a superthin/hairline would work?</cite>\r\n\r\nThis is as light as the font can
    go. If it gets any lighter the relationship between the corners and curves in
    letters like O goes from being a pleasant quirk to really distracting. I can fix
    it by curving the interior, but that loses the one feature that really justifies
    the font (at least in my mind.). "
  created: '2009-02-15 16:30:27'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: Amazing, many thanks. I take it is fairly effective? How much cleaning up
    do you have to do?
  created: '2009-02-15 18:07:28'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "@james - hmmm good point... i guess i was thinking of [[http://vllg.com/Schwartzco/Stag/mudTyper+Weights/|Stag
    Thin]] and how it retained it quirks even at a very thin weight.\r\n\r\nas i mentioned,
    i love the heavy weights and they would be the ones i would use the most. "
  created: '2009-02-16 04:17:57'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "oh and can i humbly request you create a few alternate Q's and an alternate
    M, one with angled (i can't think of the correct term...) legs(?) that match the
    angle of the A, V and W so if i had words like WAVE or MAW or VAMPIRE the angles
    would fit together...\r\n\r\ni like alternates..."
  created: '2009-02-16 04:25:51'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "@andrew: I don\u2019t really know what the output is like, I\u2019m using
    the demo and it doesn\u2019t save files. \r\n\r\n@simon: I\u2019ll look at some
    alternates. "
  created: '2009-02-16 05:13:03'
- author:
    name: microspective
    picture: 111866
  body: "Hey James,\r\n\r\nThis is really great. I'm totally into the slightly rounded
    corners (inside and out). \r\n\r\nGlad to see you're pursuing this despite the
    comments above. Unfriendly, nonconstructive critique offers no integrity, thus
    can be ignored. \r\n\r\nI look forward to seeing the completed version."
  created: '2009-02-16 20:30:09'
- author:
    name: rcc
    picture: 112031
  body: "For whatever it's worth \u2014 which conceivably is nothing at all \u2014
    I like it and hope to see a completed version soon."
  created: '2009-02-17 11:21:25'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I like it, but I do wonder though, what a lowercase would look like for this.\r\nHave
    you considered trying some lowercase characters? Even if it's just for fun?\r\n\r\nMaybe
    it works, and I think it would be an even more useful typeface."
  created: '2009-02-17 15:49:14'
- author:
    name: BeauW
    picture: 116201
  body: "I really like the lighter versions- I find it has a visual depth, like letterpress
    depth on the screen...\r\n\r\nI feel the figures would be improved by more rounding
    (especially the 2 and 9)"
  created: '2009-02-18 00:09:59'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Is there going to be an ultraphat? '
  created: '2009-02-18 00:32:34'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: yeah, i agree, and ultraphat would be very nice!
  created: '2009-02-18 03:06:14'
- author:
    name: mightyatom
  body: 'I think it loses something with the rounding. The appeal of this style is
    that it has a very strong, masculine presence, especially in the heavier weights.
    That said, I think this still needs refinement. To me, there appears to be a lot
    of inconsistency where curves, angles, arcs and straight lines are used both within
    individual forms (spline of the S, 2) and throughout (compare R and B). In particular,
    the bowls with rectangular interiors look "off" when compared to D, P & R. I''m
    wondering if more of the curves should be mirrored in the interior as with these. '
  created: '2009-02-18 03:06:14'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I like it and hope to see a completed version soon.</cite>\r\n\r\nI\u2019m
    unpacking my studio tomorrow morning and getting back to work.\r\n\r\n<cite>Have
    you considered trying some lowercase characters</cite>\r\n\r\nI\u2019m sticking
    to uppercase for now. I still get in over my head working with both cases. Although
    I have started sketching a slab that with a lowercase.\r\n\r\n<cite>Is there going
    to be an ultraphat?</cite>\r\nYes. The first batch I release will come from the
    100 \u2013 1000 range. After that I\u2019ll be  working in a range from 1100 \u2013
    cyclopean.\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-18 03:06:22'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "if all the weights are odd numbers, should pack 1 not be 100 - 900?\r\n\r\neg:
    100, 300, 500, 700, 900"
  created: '2009-02-18 03:11:04'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "The weights so far are development versions. They\u2019ll be tweaked some
    before the final release, they might not all get released, etc."
  created: '2009-02-18 16:00:59'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: I think that the rounding of some of the characters, like C, S, O, etc. cause
    the baseline to become a bit bumpy. I.e. they might overshoot a bit too much?
  created: '2009-02-18 17:05:00'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: '@jelmar: to some extent the wonky baseline is intentional. But it shoots
    out too far in the lighter weights and is being reigned in.'
  created: '2009-02-18 18:12:12'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Ah I see. And yeah, toning it down a little in some places might be good,
    it dances around just a bit too much here and there. :)
  created: '2009-02-19 04:07:55'
- author:
    name: microspective
    picture: 111866
  body: "@ <em>100-1000 range</em>\r\n@ <em>should pack 1 not be 100 - 900?</em>\r\n@
    <em>1100 - cyclopean</em>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d54UU-fPIsY\">Spinal
    Tap</a>, anyone?"
  created: '2009-02-19 15:42:35'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: '@micro - hahaha!'
  created: '2009-02-20 00:53:37'
- author:
    name: mehallo
    picture: 109684
  body: "I really like it - and there's a clunkiness that isn't ... Well, as digital
    as Clicker comes across. And that's sooo wonderful to see. \r\n\r\nOften, using
    digital tools tend to over digitize a typeface, and I think what you're doing
    is on the right track. It screams 19th Century signage, I'd hate if you cleaned
    up that aspect too much.\r\n\r\nLittle tweaks that are jumping out at me (and
    I know everyone sees things differently):\r\n\r\nThe balance on the R seems off.
    I know the leg is deliberately sticking out on the right, but consider playing
    with it a bit more. It's not quite there yet.\r\n\r\nSame thing going on with
    the B, K and the E. They visually look right hand side top heavy.\r\n\r\nThe overshoot
    of the S and Q are cool, but I'm wondering if they're too much. If there's a happy
    medium between too much and not enough.\r\n\r\nThe A seems just a tad light compared
    to the other letters. Same thing with the I, T and W.\r\n\r\nI can't tell if the
    X is off at this size. But an X is a BITCH to draw and get to work.\r\n\r\n\r\nI
    actually like light weights a lot - and I sort of think the ultra ultra bolds
    have become a trend right now, that after it shakes out - people are going to
    be craving lights. Would love to see a thin version, actually.\r\n\r\nBut what
    do I know, I just released an ultra bold! :)\r\n\r\ns\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-12 23:55:47'
date: '2009-02-11 17:07:17'
files:
- filename: NSG_Typo_One.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/NSG_Typo_One.pdf
node_type: forum
title: NS Gothic is back

---
