---
author:
  name: Laurentius
body: Is it illegal to download illegally uploaded fonts? And is it illegal to use
  them?
comments:
- author:
    name: bemerx25
    picture: 112539
  body: "Do you like people to use your work or services without compensating or paying
    you? That's basically what it boils down to. \r\n\r\n\"Legal\" as a definition
    really depends on the laws at a given location and time. But in most cases, yes,
    it is illegal to download illegally uploaded fonts. You could be found liable.
    But I'm not a lawyer."
  created: '2009-02-11 20:46:54'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: Of course.
  created: '2009-02-11 20:49:02'
- author:
    name: scottsullivan
    picture: 115949
  body: "why would it not be illegal?\r\n\r\n- Scott"
  created: '2009-02-11 20:52:23'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I assume that Laurentius is hoping that only the anonymous person who illegally
    uploaded the fonts is liable, and the person who downloads them and uses them
    in a project is somehow absolved of any responsibility. \r\n\r\nIn my opinion
    in real life the opposite is true, the anonymous uploader stands little chance
    of being brought to justice, but the person who associates their name with a project
    that uses unlicensed fonts is 100 times more likely to find themselves in hot
    water. \r\n"
  created: '2009-02-11 20:57:57'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "To nit-pik, I'm not sure in what context it'd ever be illegal to 'upload'
    a font.\r\n\r\nPutting a file on a server, in and of itself, doesn't typically
    have any 'illegal' connotations to it.\r\n\r\nNow if this server happens to be
    public, and advertises the fact you can download copies of the file from it, then
    one could argue there was intent involved and said intent could be construed as
    being illegal.\r\n\r\nBottom line, if the digital files are protected by copyright
    or licensing or the like, then yea, any use outside of those parameters could
    easily be illegal.\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-11 21:49:30'
- author:
    name: Laurentius
  body: 'Even if it is only for private, noncommercial use? '
  created: '2009-02-11 22:08:36'
- author:
    name: Laurentius
  body: The reason I ask the question this way, is that I have been told, that downloading
    movies (from torrents) is not illegal; only uploading (I see no reason to put
    that in quotation marks) them is.
  created: '2009-02-11 22:11:20'
- author:
    name: Laurentius
  body: 'More practically: would anyone ever ask someone, who noncommercially, perhaps
    in an academic context, used a font, to shew his licence for it; could that (with
    legal force) be demanded? '
  created: '2009-02-11 22:14:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: If you know that what you're acquiring was stolen, then you are complicit
    in the theft.
  created: '2009-02-11 22:19:37'
- author:
    name: Nachos
    picture: 116245
  body: "You are an accomplice. Anything you print can and will be used against you
    in a court of law. \r\n\r\nWell sure, you can use a pirated version of Palatino
    to write your school paper if that is what you mean. If you want to know more
    about licencing and what you can and cant use legally and where I would recommend
    reading [[http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0932102131|Pricing and Ethical Guidelines]].
    Any other reads on this subject?\r\n\r\nMovies, music and fonts are handled in
    different ways."
  created: '2009-02-11 22:21:40'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> Is it illegal to download illegally uploaded fonts?\r\n\r\nGenerally speaking,
    you must distinguish two cases:\r\n\r\n1) If the design for the downloaded font
    had been registered (e.g. at the design office in Alicante for Europe) and the
    registration was valid and is has not yet expired, then downloading of fonts whose
    design was registered is illegal, if the downloader lives in Europe or in the
    country where the font had been registered.\r\n\r\n2) If the design for the downloaded
    font was not registered and if the downloader of the uploaded font never concluded
    any contract with the seller of the font, there does not exist any contractual
    (or EULA) link between downloader and seller of the font with the consequence
    that the downloader can only be sued, if the seller proves that the font is a
    computer program the source code of which was written by a natural person. Nobody
    can prove this, because fonts are not computer programs written by natural authors.
    Even Chief Justice Roberts (who was recently seen at the Obama swearing ceremony)
    would never swear that fonts are computer programs (see http://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/publicdomain.pdf,
    pages 2). The fairy tale that fonts are computer programs or \"software\" was
    invented to cheat dimwitted font buyers. No sane person believes this rubbish,
    let alone the American Chief Justice Roberts.\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-11 22:24:36'
- author:
    name: Laurentius
  body: 'Thanks. Are you saying that one can use any unpaidfor font for any purpose
    so long as one''s computer is not seized and searched? With regard to registration,
    specifically speaking: Garamond Premier Pro in Europe (not EU, if it makes any
    difference) -- ?'
  created: '2009-02-11 22:37:30'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: If you use the font and the foundry happens to notice it and happens to decide
    to track you down and you don't have a license they can take you to court. It
    is a risk you take.
  created: '2009-02-11 22:49:35'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> Garamond Premier Pro in Europe \r\n\r\nYou can search for European font
    designs here\r\n\r\nhttp://oami.europa.eu/RCDOnline/RequestManager?\r\n\r\nFor
    more information about registration see\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/segoe.pdf\r\n\r\nand
    the other documents mentioned therein."
  created: '2009-02-11 22:54:11'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Are you saying that one can use any unpaidfor font for any purpose so long
    as one\u2019s computer is not seized and searched?\"\r\n\r\nYou rob a bank if
    you want. \r\n\r\nYou'll only go to jail if you get caught and convicted.\r\n\r\nI'm
    still not sure what you are specifically trying to ask.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-11 22:58:52'
- author:
    name: Laurentius
  body: "Uli,\r\n\r\n\r\nDanke. Die Seite, die Sie mir gezeigt haben, scheint mir
    zu sagen, dasz die Sch\xFCtze in allen F\xE4llen nicht auszer der EC gelten. --
    Oder habe ich miszverstanden?"
  created: '2009-02-11 23:20:42'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Laurentius:\r\n\r\nAs you have a command of the German language, you should
    read this German document:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/eula.pdf\r\n\r\ndealings
    with \"The EULA Fraud and How to Get a Legal Remedy\".\r\n\r\nSince e.g. the German
    Fontshop (www.fontshop.de) claims that fonts are \"computer programs\" (\"software\")
    and sells \"licences\" to such claimed \"computer programs\", you may do the following:\r\n\r\nInsert
    the name of the desired font into the German-language affidavit form on page 5
    of the above document eula.pdf and send it to Fontshop in Germany for signing
    this written affidavit concerning the desired font.\r\n\r\nIf Fontshop refuses
    to sign the affidavit, you know that Fontshop falsely claims that fonts are \"computer
    programs\" and that Fontshop \"sells licences\" to non-existing copyrights.\r\n\r\nIt
    is evident that you cannot grant a copyright licence to something that is not
    copyrighted, as everyone understands who is \"sane in the brain\".\r\n\r\nIf Fontshop
    refuses to sign the affidavit, you know that the desired font is not copyrighted,
    and therefore you can do with this font whatever you want to do, as far as the
    <strong>copyright law</strong> is concerned.\r\n\r\nThis means that all this does
    not apply to fonts as far as the <strong>design law</strong> is concerned and
    which have been validly registered as designs as mentioned above in this thread,
    because the valid registration as font design protects all forms of the font,
    even font computer files which are no computer programs. It should be noted, however,
    that most registered font designs are invalid, because most font designs do not
    meet the requirements of novelty and individuality (see e.g. the Segoe-Frutiger
    lawsuit).\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-12 09:05:05'
- author:
    name: Vertex
    picture: 112106
  body: "First of all: Excuse my English skills.-I know they are worst.\r\n\r\nDear
    Uli, I know that it isn\u2019t up to you to justify this never ending European
    Union Regulations nonsense. Once again we are discussing about a \xBBcurvature
    of a cucumber\xAB EC Regulation.\r\n\r\nRefering to the Microsoft vs. Linotype
    (Segoe / Frutiger Next) case:\r\n\r\nHow can an EC Regulation determine that \xBBsimilar\xAB
    is \xBBidentical\xAB. \r\n\r\nFurthermore, if similar is identical; - how can
    a judge establish the criteria what is similar or identical in case of a typeface?\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    a stupid example: I suppose everybody knows \xBBMarilyn\xAB, an artwork of Andy
    Warhol. My question: Is Marilyn 1 similar to Marilyn 2 or 3 or 4 \u2026\u2026..
    . If they are similar, they are identical (in the opinion of the EU). That means
    buying Marilyn 1 I bought even Marylin 2, 3, 4, etc. because they are identical.
    - \xBBGood night Europe\xAB\r\n\r\nAnother example: Personally I\u2019m \xBBforging\xAB
    fleurons, ornaments etc. from old \xBBFoundry Specimen Books\xAB. Actually I\u2019m
    \xBBforging\xAB calligraphic ornaments from Richard Gans Foundry, Madrid. If you
    look at this [[http://www.typoatelier.com/muster/RGans.jpg|example]] from a Gans
    Specimen Book from 1922 you will note, that the ornaments are similar but not
    identical. Why should Gans map those similar ornaments in his specimen if they
    are identical? Because of their different size? -I don\u2019t think so.     \r\n\r\nAn
    additional point: It seems that no one in the EU knows the difference between
    a typeface and a font file. It\u2019s the same difference as between a vector
    graphic and a .svg file. The graphic is artwork the .svg file is markup or better:
    code. And code is software.-At least in my humble opinion.\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-12 09:23:07'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Vertex:\r\n\r\n> And code is software\r\n\r\nDa Sie \xD6sterreicher sind,
    zitiere ich das \xF6sterreichische Urhebergesetz:\r\n<cite>\r\n\xA7 2. Werke der
    Literatur im Sinne dieses Gesetzes sind: 1. Sprachwerke aller Art einschlie\xDFlich
    Computerprogrammen (\xA7 40a);\r\n...\r\n\xA7 40a. (1) Computerprogramme sind
    Werke im Sinn dieses Gesetzes, wenn sie das Ergebnis der eigenen geistigen Sch\xF6pfung
    ihres Urhebers sind.\r\n</cite>\r\nDamit gelten meine urheberrechtlichen Erl\xE4uterungen\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/computerprogramm.pdf\r\n\r\nauch
    f\xFCr \xD6sterreich.\r\n\r\nVerwenden Sie bitte nicht das unklare Wort \"Software\",
    denn das \xF6sterreichische Urhebergesetz spricht von \"Computerprogramm\", nicht
    von \"Software\". (Das amerikanische Urhebergesetz spricht \xFCbrigens auch nicht
    von \"software\", sondern nur von \"computer program\".)\r\n\r\nUmstritten ist
    beispielsweise, ob die Hints von PS und OTF fonts als Computerprogramm einzustufen
    sind. Aber selbst, wenn man sie als solche einstuft, scheitert die Schutzf\xE4higkeit
    derselben daran, da\xDF sie <strong>nicht</strong> \"das Ergebnis der <strong>eigenen</strong>
    geistigen Sch\xF6pfung ihres Urhebers sind\".\r\n\r\nWenn man z.B. Adobe-AFDKO
    startet und dann\r\n\r\n   autohint -a AGaramondPro-Regular.otf\r\n\r\neingibt,
    wird dieser OTF-Font automatisch gehintet. Aber diese Befehlzeile ist keine \"eigene
    geistige Sch\xF6pfung ihres Urhebers\", und folglich sind die Hints bei s\xE4mtlichen
    Adobe-Fonts nicht urheberrechtlich gesch\xFCtzt, weil sie allesamt automatisch
    generiert wurden.\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-12 10:38:01'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Moderator?\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-12 11:26:52'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Do any of our moderators sprechen sie argumentative bullschtt?
  created: '2009-02-12 21:49:55'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: 'In TV the metaphor for going too far is called jumping the shark. At Typophile
    it''s called Uli interprets the law. '
  created: '2009-02-12 21:57:06'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "Stumbling across this post counts as my weekend abroad. I \"hear\" foreign
    languages spoken with verbosity, I witness possible illicit activities and I enjoyed
    all while drinking.\r\n\r\nThanks for the trip, expect postcards."
  created: '2009-02-13 06:54:29'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> argumentative bullschtt\r\n\r\nIn order to prove that EULAs are \"argumentative
    bullschtt\" designed to deceive gullible font buyers, I sent various font orders
    to managers and lawyers of various font houses requesting them to fill in the
    accompanied affidavit form: \r\n\r\n<strong>Affidavit:\r\n\r\nThis is to certify
    that __________, called \"font software\" in the EULA, is a computer program,
    i.e. a set of statements, as defined by the Copyright Law, that the source code
    of this set of statements was written by __________, and that this \"font software\"
    is protected by copyright.\r\n\r\nI solemnly swear that the foregoing statements
    are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief.\r\n\r\nSignature
    of __________</strong>\r\n\r\nNone of the managers and none of the lawyers of
    font houses certified that the \"font software\" is protected by copyright.\r\n\r\nThis
    means that the font EULA is \"argumentative bullschtt\" drafted by lawyers for
    the purpose of deceiving dimwitted, gullible font buyers, who are expected to
    certify via EULA that fonts are protected by copyright, while the managers of
    font houses and their lawyers would never certify that fonts are protected by
    copyright.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-13 08:48:29'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Definitively certifiable.
  created: '2009-02-13 09:10:38'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: ">Definitively certifiable\r\n\r\nGood pun.\r\n\r\nFor example, the Linotype
    lawyers request \"certifiable\" font buyers to certify this legal \"bullschtt\":\r\n\r\n<cite>\"3.2
    The licensee agrees that the Font Software and documentation, and all copies thereof,
    are owned by Linotype GmbH; and its design, structure, organization and encoding
    are valuable property of Linotype GmbH and/or its suppliers. The licensee agrees
    that the Font Software and documentation are protected by German trademark and
    design patent laws, by the copyright and trademark laws of other countries, and
    by international treaties. In addition, the licensee agrees to treat the Font
    Software and documentation in the same manner corresponding to other copyrighted
    and trademark-protected products, e.g., books. With the exception of the points
    explicitly mentioned here, copying the Font Software and documentation is not
    permitted. Any and all copies that the licensee is permitted to produce on the
    basis of this agreement have to have to contain the same copyright, trademark
    and other property clauses as those on or contained in the Font Software and documentation.
    The licensee declares not to modify, adapt or translate the encoding of the Font
    Software, nor reproduce, decompile, disassemble, change, modify or otherwise attempt
    to reveal the source code of the Font Software.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nBut the Linotype
    lawyers would never certify this legal \"bullschtt\"."
  created: '2009-02-13 09:51:18'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: There we go again (rolls eyes).
  created: '2009-02-13 12:23:17'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "A non-freeware or non-shareware font is uploaded in violation of its user
    agreement, which prohibits illegal distribution. Similarly, when it is downloaded
    and used, the user agreement is violated.\r\n\r\nNo police or recourse will likely
    occur, unless there is substantial business being made.\r\n\r\nMost designers
    and font makers make very little money with this kind of software. Such illegal
    action causes them to make even less.\r\n\r\nIn Orthodox Judaism, such illegal
    conduct has brought respondsa from leading Rabbinic authorities prohibiting explicitly
    this action. As a result, ones share in the world to come is jeopardized. Imagine
    for a $25 to $50 cost, the resulting transgression may cause a person to forego
    \"heaven\" and receive instead time in \"hell\"."
  created: '2009-02-13 15:53:49'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Israel, very well put. A person''s <STRONG>font sins</STRONG> will catch
    up with them in this life or the next. Those of us with font sins in our past
    make atonement by endlessly contributing to typophile threads like this one. '
  created: '2009-02-13 16:21:21'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: And if I release a sins serif design, will this assure my place in heaven?
  created: '2009-02-13 17:47:54'
- author:
    name: bemerx25
    picture: 112539
  body: "@sii - endlessly? or needlessly?\r\n@speter - shouldn't that be \"sans sins
    serif\"? I think \"sins serif\" would be a bit warmer!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-13 18:05:27'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: Cool, I'm atheist. I wasn't going to heaven anyways. Off to download illegal
    stuff!...
  created: '2009-02-13 18:19:49'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/leviticus_5952.png]\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2009-02-13 19:20:07'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: 'Ivan, your copy is surely suspect. I believe the original says: "...they
    shall stone them with Stone Sans..."'
  created: '2009-02-13 19:32:33'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Cool, I\u2019m atheist. \r\n\r\nI did say this life or the next. The type
    gods walk among us. \r\n"
  created: '2009-02-13 19:41:13'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'And as we stand on their shoulders we''re somewhat in a precarious position. '
  created: '2009-02-13 19:45:42'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "Steve:\r\nDepends on the translation. The twelfth ecumenical council passed
    a retroactive ruling that effectively removed all mentions of StoneSans, making
    any further (or prior) references to it tantamount to heresy.\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2009-02-13 19:57:47'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Uli standeth on the shoulders of a dwarf! A very small, diminutive dwarf
    of no particular influence whatsoever.\r\n\r\nHere endeth the leththon! (fack-fack-fack-fack-fack!
    quack-quack-quack! Quack-facker. Uli need him a psyche doktor. Yah boo, we think
    yoo stink, hehe! And it vewy vewy funnaye.)\r\n\r\nYou have just witnessed an
    ad hominem attack.\r\n\r\nMoo. I been entertained. Hello I must be going etcetera.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2009-02-13 19:58:28'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Perhaps I will publish my correspondence with major font sellers at my website.
    Look, for example, at Linotype and Monotype:\r\n\r\nHow come that neither Jan
    Kaestner as the \"European Legal Counsel\" nor Frank Wildenberg as the \"General
    Manager\" of the Linotype GmbH had the courage to certify what they expect font
    buyers to certify by way of EULA? The answer is quite simple: If Jan Kaestner
    and Frank Wildenberg certified that the fonts sold by Linotype and Monotype are
    copyright, they would commit the crime of false affidavit, and therefore they
    are frightened to make the false statement that the fonts they sell are copyright.
    But they still expect their font buyers to make this false statement via EULA."
  created: '2009-02-13 20:51:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Uli, what will happen to all the little people like me (independent type founder,
    designer of original typefaces) when you have blown down this house of cards?
  created: '2009-02-13 22:43:00'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "If this happens, I suppose we'll have to stop appealing to non-enforceable
    laws, and concentrate on basic human decency, values of good craftsmanship and
    personal dignity. Yeah..that's gonna work...\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2009-02-13 23:46:37'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "(sorry) get to repost.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/repost_3981.jpg]"
  created: '2009-02-14 02:38:05'
- author:
    name: Yehan
    picture: 112677
  body: "\"they shall stone them with Stone Sans\"\r\n\r\nLMAO!"
  created: '2009-02-14 04:04:39'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: "We'll never get anywhere arguing over the legality of piracy with people
    who believe the inherent basis of licensing is extralegal.\r\n\r\nWhy not use
    an ethical argument instead? For any even slightly ethically consistent human
    being, ethics are - or should be - INFINITELY more important than the legality
    of any particular practice.\r\n\r\nIf you think it's ethical to, for personal
    entertainment or material enrichment, take the fruit of another's labor without
    remuneration, then I'm afraid that you are a stunted and malformed human being
    who can never truly appreciate the work of another individual."
  created: '2009-02-14 04:40:11'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>And if I release a sins serif design, will this assure my place in heaven?</em>\r\n\r\nSteve,
    I hear that <a href=\"http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/10/nyregion/10indulgence.html?em\">indulgences
    are once again available</a>... Much easier than designing a typeface sans sin.
    ;-)"
  created: '2009-02-14 06:10:11'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "<a href=http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VILrWeO5QYs> Doritos, fonts, what's
    the dif?</a> \r\n. \r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2009-02-14 06:13:17'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "jlt:\r\n\r\n> <cite>If you think it\u2019s ethical to ... take the fruit
    of another\u2019s labor without remuneration ...</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's what's done
    by the major font sellers. Most font designers receive no royalties at all for
    the fonts sold by Linotype, Monotype, Berthold, etc. If fonts were copyrightable,
    then even decades after the designers's death, their heirs could claim royalties.
    But neither Max Miedinger nor his heirs receive royalties from Linotype for the
    sale of Helvetica. This means that Linotype, Monotype, Berthold, etc. <cite>\"take
    the fruit of another's labor without remuneration\"</cite>, as you put it. There
    are exceptions to this rule (Adrian Frutiger, Hermann Zapf, etc.), but for more
    the majority of fonts sold by Linotype, Monotype, Berthold, etc., this rule is
    valid."
  created: '2009-02-14 06:34:06'
- author:
    name: rcc
    picture: 112031
  body: "@Ricardo: \"... indulgences ...\"\r\n\r\nWhat a hoot! Nearly spilled my morning
    coffee while laughing."
  created: '2009-02-14 09:53:17'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Nice initials, rcc! ;-)\r\n\r\nGetting back to indulgences... Where's <a
    href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Martin_Luther\">Martin Luther</a> when we
    need him?\r\n\r\nRC"
  created: '2009-02-14 18:05:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Laurentius,\r\n\r\nThe short answer to your question is, yes.\r\n\r\nUsing
    stolen property, transporting stolen property, or passing on stolen property is
    against the law. Like any lawbreaker, sometimes you get caught, sometimes you
    don't.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-02-15 01:15:28'
- author:
    name: Joostmarcellis
    picture: 115479
  body: "Laurentius,\r\n\r\nyour right about the downloading, the act it self is not
    illegal, but using the font afterwards is"
  created: '2009-02-15 09:36:35'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Most font designers receive no royalties at all for the fonts sold by Linotype,
    Monotype, Berthold, etc. If fonts were copyrightable, then even decades after
    the designers\u2019s death, their heirs could claim royalties. But neither Max
    Miedinger nor his heirs receive royalties from Linotype for the sale of Helvetica.
    [...] Linotype, Monotype, Berthold, etc. \u201Ctake the fruit of another\u2019s
    labor without remuneration\u201D, as you put it. There are exceptions to this
    rule (Adrian Frutiger, Hermann Zapf, etc.), but for more the majority of fonts
    sold by Linotype, Monotype, Berthold, etc., this rule is valid.\"\r\n\r\nThere
    might be other explanations, no!? Most font designers receive no royalties for
    fonts sold by Linotype, Monotype or Berthold, because the designers sold the copy
    rights to the ownership of one of those companies. Max Miedinger's Helvetica is
    among them, and some Frutiger and Zapf faces are paid up while others are royalty
    earning. Those companies control the copyrights because they paid for the work,
    and if you have not heard from their lawyers it is likely because they are not
    paid to educate you in Type Legalities 101 unless it pays.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-02-15 14:30:20'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">make atonement by endlessly contributing to typophile threads like this
    one.\r\n\r\nLOL!"
  created: '2009-02-15 14:41:18'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I religiously do not copy or use other people's fonts, like other copyright
    materials, such as movies or music, without paying for them.\r\n\r\nNevertheless,
    I contribute to threads on typophile quite extensively. In fact, I consider myself
    a great blabber-mouth.\r\n\r\nSo, if some font is copyright, use of it without
    permission from or payment to its owner is in deed illegal.\r\n\r\nNothing, however,
    will happen. If you stubb your toe as a result, do tell me, as I have connections.
    G-d is pretty forgiving.\r\n\r\nAdobe did win some lawsuits, so there are legal
    precedents on the books. But that was for big business.\r\n\r\nIn the end, you
    can get away with most illegal use. The only one who gets screwed is the poor
    type designer and his staving family. If you can live with that, breaking the
    law becomes a non-issue."
  created: '2009-02-15 16:13:45'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Berlow:\r\n\r\n> There might be other explanations, no!?\r\n\r\nWhenever
    I read EULAs, I almost begin to vomit. But when I really start to vomit is when
    I read letters by foundries sent to their own font designers.\r\n\r\nAs my website
    on this funny industry (www.sanskritweb.net/forgers.htm) has been up and running
    for more than four years, I came into contact with many people, e.g. with many
    font designers, who have been taken for a ride by foundries.\r\n\r\nI received
    numerous photostat copies of shysters's letters, which would make any human being
    start to vomit.\r\n\r\nThese shysters, on the one had, have concocted bizarre
    EULAs making the stupid font customers of foundries believe that fonts are copyright.\r\n\r\nThese
    same shysters, on the other hand, when the font designers of these foundries,
    many months after having supplied their font designs, ask for the royalties stipulated
    by contract, these same shysters send out letters to the font designers explaining
    them, that it is well known in the font industry that fonts are NOT copyright
    and that any intelligent font designer ought to know this legal fact and that
    therefore font designers cannot claim any copyright royalties at all.\r\n\r\nThat's
    why I said that the majority of font designers never receive royalties for the
    fonts sold by Linotype, Monotype, Berthold, etc. As I said above, there are exceptions
    to this rule. But a few larks do not make spring, do they?"
  created: '2009-02-15 17:36:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Uli, I repeat, what will happen to all the little people like me (independent
    type founder, designer of original typefaces) when you have blown down this house
    of cards?\r\n\r\nPlease stop banging away at the malicious idea that \"font designers
    cannot claim any copyright royalties\"--this idea is apt to give my customers
    the idea that it's OK to pirate fonts, and what will that do for my livelihood?\r\n\r\nDon't
    you have any constructive ideas on how to improve \"this funny industry\"?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-15 21:22:24'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: 'Uli: On second thought, could you please go back to writing in German? '
  created: '2009-02-15 21:50:24'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Shinn:\r\n\r\n> <cite>Uli, I repeat, what will happen to all the little
    people like me (independent type founder, designer of original typefaces) when
    you have blown down this house of cards?</cite>\r\n\r\nI cannot blow down this
    \"house of cards\". I only describe this industry, so that anyone can form one's
    own opinion. I have never been affiliated with anybody in this industry, so that
    I can supply an impartial description of this funny industry.\r\n\r\nIf I were
    allowed to publish the above-mentioned shysters' letters, many Typophilers would
    understand, why I said at my website that this funny industry is the scum of typography.\r\n\r\nIt
    is my opinion that any work should get its adequate remuneration, and this also
    applies to designers of fonts. However, the price of a commodity or service is
    determined by supply and demand, and for Latin fonts, there is more supply than
    demand.\r\n\r\nThere are font designers, who make custom-made fonts for certain
    companies or organisations. This is a business model for font makers.\r\n\r\nAnother
    business model is sponsoring. For instance, I sponsored the making of Sanskrit
    fonts by paying the equivalent of ordinary salaries to designers in Eastern Europe.
    This was financially possible for me as a retiree, because the salaries in Eastern
    Europe are very low, as compared with Germany. These Sanskrit fonts are freely
    downloadable from my website by anyone. This sponsoring model means that the designers
    get paid by sponsors and that the users may download the fonts for free.\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-15 22:28:41'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\"shyster - a person (especially a lawyer or politician) who uses unscrupulous
    or unethical methods\"\r\n\r\n... but not illegal methods. Interesting. "
  created: '2009-02-15 22:34:56'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>I have never been affiliated with anybody in this industry, so that I
    can supply an impartial description of this funny industry.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    funny... you don't sound impartial."
  created: '2009-02-16 03:40:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>There are font designers, who make custom-made fonts for certain companies
    or organisations. This is a business model for font makers.</em>\r\n\r\n\r\nI
    do commissioned work. I also sell (licences for) retail fonts--what is wrong with
    that as a business model? \r\nYou seem fixated on the adversarial relationship
    between designers and large corporations such as software giants and \"legacy\"
    publishers--but I self-publish my own designs, as do a great many type designers
    these days. \r\nHow about showing us a little respect?\r\n\r\nYour arguments discriminate
    against those individuals (and small businesses) who would like to market their
    intellectual property to mass markets via the Internet. \r\nWhy do you want to
    restrict me to working on a contract or for-fee basis--why should intellectual
    content-producers not be allowed to productize?"
  created: '2009-02-16 05:15:24'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> <cite>I do commissioned work. I also sell (licences for) retail fonts\u2014what
    is wrong with that as a business model?</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat's wrong? Well, for
    instance, the second section of your ShinnType EULA labeled \"2. COPYRIGHT\" is
    legally wrong. That's what is wrong.\r\n\r\nIf you were SELLING retail fonts,
    just like all other ordinary retailers do, who sell all kinds of goods, then there
    would be nothing wrong. But via your EULA you license non-existing copyrights,
    and that is wrong, because this is illegal (and by the way, this is also unethical).\r\n\r\nFor
    instance, you write in your EULA that your fonts are \"font software\" and that
    \"as such they are protected by the copyright laws of many nations\". For example,
    Germany does not belong to these \"many nations\", and therefore if you grant
    against payment of a licence fee a copyright licence to a German, he will NOT
    obtain a copyright licence, because you cannot grant a copyright licence to something
    that is not copyrighted. In Germany, we call this copyright fraud. That's what
    is wrong.\r\n\r\nThe only legal (and by the way also the only ethical) solution
    for your retail fonts would be that you skip the \"copyright licence\" EULA rubbish
    and that you really SELL your retail fonts, just like all other ordinary retailers
    in the world SELL retail goods.\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-16 06:41:41'
- author:
    name: nepenthe
    picture: 109675
  body: "Uli, that model works for retail goods because persons can redistribute products
    while still using it. Say I buy a milkshake. If I give my milkshake away, I can
    no longer drink it. But if I purchase a digital font, I can give it away to everyone
    in the world\u2014which is precisely what happens when people post digital files
    on their sites, as torrents, etc. There has to be some legal accountability for
    persons who pay for the font in terms of not redistributing them. The data is
    what is what needs to be protected. I don't know the ins and outs of this whole
    debate\u2014I know there are plenty of threads here on this topic\u2014but it
    doesn't seem justified to protect some kinds of digital data and not others. And
    the argument that font designers are not programmers is insufficient to not protect
    fonts. Filmmakers and musicians who produce artworks do not write the software
    that edits and encodes their data as digital files, but there is still protection
    for these kinds of works.\r\n\r\n(I have a feeling I stepped in over my head on
    this one...)"
  created: '2009-02-16 07:21:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>(and by the way, this is also unethical).</em>\r\n\r\nMy conscience is
    clear.\r\n\r\nThe digital type industry operates on a licensing principle that
    most people--producers, marketers and purchasers--think is fair.\r\nThis slice
    of society determines what is ethically acceptable.\r\n\r\nAccording to you, our
    industry is founded on a premise which is unethical in the larger scheme of society.\r\nThat's
    debatable, because society as a whole is still wrestling with the issue of how
    to legislate to protect the rights of digital content creators.\r\n \r\n \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-16 08:02:57'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "nepenthe:\r\n\r\n> <cite>Filmmakers and musicians who produce artworks do
    not write the software that edits and encodes their data as digital files, but
    there is still protection for these kinds of works.</cite>\r\n\r\nSince you are
    from Canada, I refer to your Canadian copyright law:\r\n\r\nsee http://laws.justice.gc.ca/en/ShowFullDoc/cs/C-42///en\r\n\r\nThe
    above Canadian copyright act provides that \"cinematographic works\" and \"musical
    works\" and \"artistic works\" and \"computer programs\" etc. are protected by
    copyright. Hence filmmakers and musicians etc. obtain protection for these kinds
    of works.\r\n\r\nBut \"fonts\" do not belong to the kinds of works protected by
    the Canadian copyright act, and hence they are not copyrighted by the Canadian
    copyright act.\r\n\r\nSince fonts are neither \"artistic works\" nor \"computer
    programs\", shysters invented the fairy tale that fonts are copyright as \"software\".\r\n\r\nLook
    for the word \"software\" in your above Canadian copyright act, and you will find
    nothing. Got it?\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-16 08:13:14'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "No you did not, JP. The copyright protection is automatic and instant on
    most creative efforts no matter what some people say. Just check any country\u2019s
    intellectual property regulator\u2019s web page. No registration required, between
    50 and 70 years since the creator\u2019s death.\r\n\r\nIf you worry about obtaining
    affidavits from people, why not ask the management of <em>National Geographic</em>
    or <em>Playboy</em> to sign a form you sent them saying anything like \u2018I,
    the undersigned (fill in please), certify that ...\u2019 and use the absence of
    \ a reply as an argument in your favour? Or MGM or Universal, or for that matter
    the government of Germany, Pakistan or China?\r\n\r\nI can promise you that they\u2019ll:
    1) never sign and return the form; and 2) come down on you like a ton of bricks
    if you try to pinch anything they regard as their property. Well, they do not
    maintain whole floors of lawyers for nothing ... (<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/54681\">a
    malicious ellipse</a>)\r\n\r\nEdit: too bloody late"
  created: '2009-02-16 08:30:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Uli, the judge ruled in Adobe et al vs SSI that fonts are copyrightable software.
    The law here in the US is what the courts say it is, and that''s what the court
    has said. I know I''m no expert in these matters, but you hold yourself out as
    one. Yet so far as I can see you don''t even get the basics right. '
  created: '2009-02-16 14:48:44'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> <cite>you don\u2019t even get the basics right.</cite>\r\n\r\nIf you had
    ever visited my website, you would have seen that I wrote a document about this
    \"summary judgement\" Case No. C95-20710."
  created: '2009-02-16 17:59:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Uli, how about a link? \r\n\r\nI did find some mention on your site of this
    judgment, but you wrongly claim it is relevant only for Utopia. The court only
    ruled on that typeface, as they said Adobe only gave full evidence on that one.
    But the *principle* of the legitimacy of claims of copyright on fonts as software
    was established. \r\n\r\nThey didn't rule on the other claims, but it is clear
    that if Adobe--or anybody else--supplied similar evidence of copying, they would
    likely get the same result.  \r\n\r\nThat established the principle, which you
    continue to deny indignantly and, it seems to me, absurdly.\r\n\r\n[[http://directory.serifmagazine.com/Ethics_and_Law/Copyright/judgement.php4|A
    copy of the ruling is here.]] "
  created: '2009-02-16 18:20:09'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Whenever I read EULAs, I almost begin to vomit.\"\r\nThen if you read them
    backwards you'll never need to eat again. \r\n\r\n\"But a few larks do not make
    spring, do they\"\r\nNo, they don't, nor does one vomiting eula reader make typographic
    winter.\r\n\r\n\"A copy of the ruling is here.\"\r\nAnd it was hard fought and
    widely supported. \r\n\r\nIn addition, most all the work we let out is 'licensed'
    not 'sold', we send all of our works to the copyright office for 'font software'
    registration and we mop the floor regularly, wash behind out ears and clip our
    nails neatly. \r\n\r\nI think you have been programmed incorrectly by some bad
    anecdotal or personal information. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-16 19:16:35'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Berlow:\r\n\r\n<cite> In addition, most all the work we let out is \u2019licensed\u2019
    not \u2019sold\u2019, we send all of our works to the copyright office for \u2019font
    software\u2019 registration and we mop the floor regularly, wash behind out ears
    and clip our nails neatly. \r\nI think you have been programmed incorrectly by
    some bad anecdotal or personal information.</cite>\r\n\r\nQuestion:\r\n\r\nWhich
    EULAs did you adhere to and which copyright laws did you obey, when you and Matthew
    Carter and Roger Black and Mike Parter ripped off one thousand fonts for the Bitstream
    font forging outfit? Did you send these ripped-off fonts as \"our work\" to the
    copyright office for registration?\r\n\r\nsee http://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/bitstream2.pdf\r\n\r\nI
    repeat: Whenever I read EULAs, I almost begin to vomit."
  created: '2009-02-16 19:46:37'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Which EULAs did you adhere to...\"\r\nNone were either offered or required
    for that work. \r\n\r\n\"... and which copyright laws did you obey,...\"\r\nAll
    of them, we broke no copyright laws. \r\n\r\n\"...when you and Matthew Carter
    and Roger Black and Mike Parter ripped off one thousand fonts...\"\r\nYou have
    been programmed incorrectly by bad anecdotal and personal information Mr. Black
    was never at the company or involved with the clients we served. Mr. Carter and
    Mr. Parker were officers and made offers to the owners for licensing of the trademarks
    involved to allow those trademarks to be used on machines other than those of
    the TM owners. Some licenses eventually were granted but most were refused. None
    of the work was light-table compatible, all included original kerning and scaling
    data among other things and they were sold as their own designs, not copies. \r\n\r\n\"Did
    you send these ripped-off fonts as \u201Cour work\u201D to the copyright office
    for registration?\"\r\nYes. As original digital works derived from analog sources
    they were copyrightable and accepted as such to this day. \r\n\r\nI'm not sure
    if you have a track, but if you did, you've run off it. I hope you feel better,
    but would you like another EULA?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-02-17 02:53:14'
- author:
    name: nepenthe
    picture: 109675
  body: That's one funky new icon, there, David!
  created: '2009-02-17 03:40:40'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Berlow:\r\n\r\nAs regards the name of Roger Black, I regret that I made
    a memory error here, but I should emphasize that, four years ago, when I documented
    the Bitstream font forgeries (www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/bitstream2.pdf), I nowhere
    mention Roger Black as co-founder of the Bitstream font forging outfit in my documentations.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"they
    were sold as their own designs, not copies\"</cite>\r\n\r\nIn my document www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/publicdomain.pdf,
    which was published in 2008, I documented the Linotype typeface catalog of the
    year 1982 listing the fonts, the designs of which were public domain in 2008,
    i.e. 25 years later. However, when the Bitstream font forging outfit was founded
    by Matthew Carter, Mike Parker and David Berlow two decades ago, many of these
    font designs were NOT YET in public domain. Therefore the Bitstream font forging
    outfit could not sell these ripped-off designs <cite>\"as their own designs\"</cite>,
    as Mr. Berlow claims. The Frutiger-Segoe-case made it clear that <cite>\"Designs
    shall be deemed to be identical if their features differ only in immaterial details\"</cite>
    (see the Segoe lawsuit documents at my website). But even in the case of those
    font designs, which were already in public domain at the time, when the Bitstream
    font forging outfit was founded, the forgers who founded this outfit, could not
    declare these public domain designs <cite>\"as their own designs\"</cite>. \"Passing
    off\" the designs made by others as one's own designs and selling these \"passed
    off\" designs as one's own designs is equivalent to the crime of fraud. Example:
    Neither Matthew Carter nor Mike Parker nor David Berlow are the designers of the
    typeface \"Frutiger\", and therefore it was illegal that they \"passed off\" Frutiger's
    design as their own design as \"Humanist 777\". \r\n"
  created: '2009-02-18 07:39:19'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"That\u2019s one funky new icon, there, David!\"\r\nIt's one of them fancy
    medical scans of my brain I done mice elf with my iPhone.\r\n\r\n\"...was founded
    by Matthew Carter, Mike Parker and David Berlow two decades ago,..\"\r\nI worked
    for Linotype when Bitstream was founded and for sometime after Bitstream's founding
    (28! years ago). I couldn't join the company until Bitstream almost had an interactive
    digital letter drawing machine, and it took a few more months after that to establish
    a reliable \"save\" button.\r\n\r\n\"...many of these font designs were NOT YET
    in public domain. \"\r\nVery few fonts, and none in the Linotype catalog you cite,
    are \"designs\" in 'Private Domain\" as established by law at the time. See leonard
    storch enterprises inc. v. mergenthaler linotype co. for that landmark in the
    legal process and the watershed in Linotype's font development funding vs. their
    future inability to grasp and control their own future.\r\n\r\n\"The Frutiger-Segoe-case...\"\r\nHow
    long is the gap between the events you are describing, and the case you are citing?\r\n\r\n\"\u201CDesigns
    shall be deemed to be identical if their features differ only in immaterial details\u201D\"\r\nThat's
    very nice, and I like it! So, the fonts made that share the metrics, color and
    ratio-to-Em of someone else's face would today be deemed \"to be identical\",
    whatever that means legally locally. And if not, i.e. if differences in material
    details conspire to give even a slightly different appearance, Not.\r\n\r\n\"...
    David Berlow [is not] the designer[] of the typeface \u201CFrutiger\u201D\r\nYou're
    getting warm, (though not even Frutiger himself put it this way).\r\n\r\n\"therefore
    it was illegal [to] \u201Cpass[] off\u201D \u201CHumanist 777\u201D [] as [his]
    own design[].\"\r\nNobody at Bitstream said any of the designs you cite were ours.
    The typefaces were always credited as inspired by the originals, by the originator
    (and the originator sometimes helped us for a fee). Attempts at licensing the
    names were constantly in motion. \r\n\r\nOverall, I think that you have to re-appreciate
    or learn from scratch, the context of a time when the setting of fonts occurred
    over a wide spectrum of devices, each requiring its own font format, detailed
    for output and constraints, through which typography and aesthetics had to be
    carried via an equally perplexing array of composition devices, to a public utterly
    oblivious to fonts before they saw them. And then, you have imagine the whole
    thing melting to the point where the company most responsible for trying to utterly
    change things in typographic IP, Adobe, teamed up with the company that had utterly
    been trying to keep them the same, Linotype. Then, fast forward to a time where
    everybody and their mom know about fontz \u2014 and some, by cherry-picking through
    details of vast and small topics ranging from jots and tittles to IP history may
    choose to present their own isolated little fiction in ignorance of the most basic
    facts. Can you?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-02-18 16:33:46'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I was thinking reading David's post that it would be nice to see a real history
    of IP rights on digital typefaces. \r\n\r\nSo I googled that case David refers
    to and [[http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1311402|low and behold
    an up-to-date 38 page survey of the history of digital typeface IP protection
    by an actual law professor.]]\r\n\r\nI don't know when I'll get around to reading
    it. \r\n\r\nUli, this is your birthday present :)\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n  "
  created: '2009-02-18 21:13:43'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: "@Uli: \"That\u2019s what\u2019s done by the major font sellers.\"\r\n\r\nWhat
    a childish retort. We're talking about us, here. You and me. Not the major sellers.
    Other people rob banks, too, but that doesn't make it OK for me to. My argument
    stands: appropriation of another's intellectual property without paying for it
    is theft, and if you can live with yourself, fine; just don't ever expect to be
    paid for your own hard work, and don't expect much in the way of karma. Defending
    yourself with \"but xxx did it first!\" is ignorant, childish, and - please don't
    take this personally - stupid in the extreme.\r\n\r\nThe world is hard enough
    - why would you knowingly add to the amount of unpleasantness in it? Don't you
    have better things to do with your existence?"
  created: '2009-02-18 21:38:15'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Berkson:\r\n\r\n> Uli, this is your birthday present :)\r\n\r\nYou almost
    hit the nail on the head, because I had already downloaded this treatise before,
    but not exactly on my birthday, it was more than a month later. By the way: The
    SSI law suit quoted by you above in this thread is also commented in Jacqueline
    D. Lipton's <cite>\"To C or not to C\"</cite>."
  created: '2009-02-19 04:53:23'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "<em>You almost hit the nail on the head, because I had already downloaded
    this treatise before, but not exactly on my birthday, it was more than a month
    later.</em>\r\n\r\nNice to know."
  created: '2009-02-19 08:22:23'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Nice to know.\"\r\nyou mean, that Uli knows what his birthday is? or that
    he's competent to judge whether a nail has been hit on the head, or if alas he
    hit himself in the head with the hammer instead? or are you suggesting that because
    he downloaded something, that he actually read and understand it while chewing
    on his keyboard at the same time? ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-02-20 13:19:09'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Berlow:\r\n\r\n> <cite>you mean, that Uli knows what his birthday is?
    or that he\u2019s competent to judge whether a nail has been hit on the head,
    or if alas he hit himself in the head with the hammer instead?</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    proverb says: \"Who lives in a glass house, should not throw stones.\"\r\n\r\nAs
    opposed to Matthew Carter, Mike Parker and David Berlow, I have never cloned the
    fonts designed by others and sold under fancy names such as \"Humanist 777\" etc.
    My humanistic education does not approve of such behaviour.\r\n\r\nJacqueline
    D. Lipton's above-mentioned treatise on the font industry should be studied by
    all those who think that they are as clever as Mr. Berlow.\r\n\r\nLipton, who
    regards the font industry as an \"IP-negative space\", constantly uses the conditional
    word \"if\": <cite>\"If such an extension is to be made, copyrights granted for
    digital typefaces should only be thin.\"</cite>."
  created: '2009-02-20 14:55:14'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: "I highly recommend to anyone in this business to read the legal article.\r\nYou'd
    be surprised at the gap between the norms you would impose and the real world.\r\n\r\n@Uli:
    you have asked individuals to sign an affidavit certifying a legal opinion, not
    facts. They can't. At most they could say: \"I believe that etc\", but they couldn't
    certify what you ask for."
  created: '2009-02-20 22:49:00'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "EK:\r\n\r\n1)\r\n\r\n> <cite>I highly recommend to anyone in this business
    to read the legal article.\r\nYou\u2019d be surprised at the gap between the norms
    you would impose and the real world.</cite>\r\n\r\nI should like to mention that
    Professor Lipton asked me to cite the documents at my \"Font Forging Industry\"
    website in the next draft of her paper, to which I agreed with pleasure.\r\n\r\nHer
    treatise mainly writes <strong>\"de lege ferenda\"</strong>, i.e. about whether
    any <strong>future</strong> US Copyright Law should accord copyright to typefaces
    at all, or only \"thin copyright\" (similar to \"kleine M\xFCnze\" in German copyright
    law). In this regard, the documents at my website are of greatest importance.\r\n\r\nFor
    instance, I documented at my site that the main business philosophy of Bitstream
    founded in the 1980s was to clone the fonts designed by others and sell them under
    fancy names. From the point of view of any future US Copyright Law, the question
    \"de lege ferenda\" is whether font forging companies with such a business philosophy
    should be granted at all the monopolistic privilege of copyright protection for
    typefaces.\r\n\r\n2)\r\n\r\n> <cite>@Uli: you have asked individuals to sign an
    affidavit certifying a legal opinion, not facts. They can\u2019t. At most they
    could say: \u201CI believe that etc\u201D, but they couldn\u2019t certify what
    you ask for.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's correct. But the above English affidavit wording
    is only an \"ad hoc\" English wording made for this Typophile thread. I did not
    send this English-language affidavit to foreign font forging companies. Instead
    I sent German-language affidavits to (1) German font companies (and also to their
    German lawyers) and (2) to German subsidiaries and German outlets of foreign font
    companies (and also to their German lawyers).\r\n\r\nYet, the above English affidavit
    does not consist only of \"I legally believe\" statements. For instance, the most
    important statement whether or not the \"source code\" of a given font exists
    at all, and if so, by which person was this source code written, is not a \"legal
    opinion\". Please note that Linotype etc. request customers to sign via EULA that
    \"source code\" <strong>exists</strong>, but Linotype etc. and their lawyers,
    if asked by font customers, refuse to declare that \"source code\" exists at all,
    let alone who wrote the imaginary \"source code\".\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-21 07:50:10'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I've read what's been written by J. D. Lipton, and I am neither impressed
    with the facts presented, there's nothing new, nor the way it was presented, being
    poorly word crafted, composed and sprinkled, as I never try to read, with spelling
    and grammatical errors.  (does everyone else get a Courier Italic word in the
    middle of a Times Italic sentence on every page?). Probably the greatest gap in
    her understanding of the situation, one that Uli shares like a blanket, is \"why?\"
    Why did the the cases she cites and events she superficially chronicles \u2014
    why did they happen, then?\r\n\r\n\"...a larger group of market participants who
    have spent less time in the industry \u2013 and are perhaps only engaging in it
    as a hobby rather than a profession \u2013 may have less stake in identifying
    and conforming to existing norms.\"\r\n\r\nAnd she's right there with them...to
    say the least. \r\n\r\nUli attempting a quote of Lipton: \u201CIf such an extension
    is to be made, copyrights granted for digital typefaces should only be thin.\u201D\r\n\r\nShe
    is talking about the design! Not the underlying font-drawing software that describes
    the design! Pay attention! The industry has re-normalized around the following:
    the software is protected by copyright, the name by trademark and the design by
    open licensing. \r\n\r\nThe software is protected by copyright so that it cannot
    be effortlessly duplicated as someone else's. The name is trademarked so that
    it may not be stolen, and it can not be applied to a similar or identical design
    published via different font software. The licensing is open so one does not need
    to choose ones publishing environment by the fonts one licenses, or ones fonts
    by ones publishing environment. \r\n\r\n\"As opposed to Matthew Carter, Mike Parker
    and David Berlow, I have never cloned the fonts\" lol, Show me proof that any
    of the people you're slandering have cloned fonts? lol, Prove you never have cloned
    fonts. Just because you have chosen a tiny niche font development, like Sanskrit
    for Germans today, (Thai for Eskimos tomorrow?), does it give you a superior world
    view to the vast market of more immediate and important needs?\r\n\r\nYour facts
    and figures are wrong, and your interpretation of them is wronger still. You,
    by your own admission, \"have never been affiliated with anybody in this industry\",
    so that you can supply an impartial description of this industry? How does that
    work? Like a blind interior decorator is not polluted by having seen anyone else's
    work can do the best job? More like you, and the eager-beaver lawyers of the world
    will be set for life chasing phantoms. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-21 16:37:09'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Berlow:\r\n\r\nI do not expect that you listen to me as someone, who
    has never worked in this funny font forging industry, and I do not expect that
    you listen to Professor Lipton or any other law professors. But I wonder, why
    you do not even listen to your friends and colleagues. For instance, Mr. John
    Hudson, who respects you, nevertheless came to the conclusion that you and Parker
    and Carter cloned <cite>\"the entire Linotype library\"</cite>. Mr. Hudson wrote
    this:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"Which brings us to Bitstream. It is very difficult to criticise
    Bitstream's initial programme without implicating individuals who both previously
    and since have contributed so much of value to type development \u2013 namely
    Matthew Carter, Mike Parker and David Berlow. I have immense respect for all of
    these people, and am pleased to be personal friends with Mike, but to pretend
    that their hands are entirely clean is futile. There are, perhaps, mitigating
    factors in Bitstream's decision to produce copies of the entire Linotype library,
    and to market them under peculiar names. New type technologies were emerging and
    were ripe for exploitation; Bitstream essentially invented the idea of device
    independent type; all three principals of Bitstream had formerly worked at Linotype,
    and clearly anticipated being able to legitimately license the fonts they wanted;
    Bitstream made attempts to license the fonts, but were refused by Linotype who
    opted instead to license to Adobe. I leave it to others to add to, correct or
    detract from these factors. The fact remains that, refused licenses by Linotype,
    Bitstream proceeded to copy the fonts anyway.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nAccording to your
    biography (www.fontbureau.com/people/DavidBerlow), you have been working for seven
    years at the Bitstream outfit from 1982 until 1989. While Carter during his Bitstream
    period also made a few own fonts not copied from others, your only task during
    your seven-year period at the Bitstream font forging outfit seems to have been
    <cite>\"to produce copies of the entire Linotype library\"</cite> (John Hudson).\r\n\r\nI
    should like to mention that there are others here at the Typophile site, e.g.
    Mr. Adam Twardoch, who have described the Bitstream story in similar words just
    like Mr. John Hudson.\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-21 19:16:42'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: My cat's breath smells like cat food.
  created: '2009-02-21 20:01:29'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...Bitstream\u2019s decision to produce copies of the entire Linotype library\r\n\r\n...
    habeas proofo. \r\n\r\n\"...but were refused by Linotype who opted instead to
    license to Adobe.\"\r\n\r\n... topics unrelated.\r\n\r\n\"...your only task during
    your seven-year period at the Bitstream font forging outfit seems to have been...\"\r\n\r\n...
    once again, what 'seems' is that your imagination seems to be wandering uncorrectably
    and without facts.\r\n\r\nYou may never run out of incorrect facts, anecdotal
    testimonials of opinions from nobody who knows, or big-eared lawyers. That is
    the nature of your being, I guess. But if you ever do, and want to try this or
    any of the cases you're suggesting in court, let me know and I'll send vomit bags
    for the eula portion of the trial, before I arrive the shred your case. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-21 20:41:27'
- author:
    name: buddhaboy
    picture: 112340
  body: I can't believe the original poster really needs an answer to this. It makes
    me question humanity. What the hell are we turning the world into? The yout' of
    today (and I'd be astonished and shocked if the original poster was over 30)...
    don't get me on me soap box.
  created: '2009-02-22 11:05:31'
- author:
    name: James Deux
  body: "<cite>The yout\u2019 of today</cite>\r\n\r\nThere are Greek philosophers
    who complaining about youth and how they were unappreciative, lazy, and didn't
    take their studies (or anything else for that matter) seriously.\r\n\r\nNothing's
    changed!"
  created: '2009-02-22 13:38:02'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: "<cite> I\u2019ve read what\u2019s been written by J. D. Lipton, and I am
    neither impressed with the facts presented, there\u2019s nothing new, nor the
    way it was presented, being poorly word crafted, composed and sprinkled, as I
    never try to read, with spelling and grammatical errors. (does everyone else get
    a Courier Italic word in the middle of a Times Italic sentence on every page?).
    </cite>\r\n\r\nI am not impressed by your criticism of this working paper. It
    is made available so that it may be improved by constructive feedback. Rest assured
    that when the time is right it will be professionally edited. In the mean time,
    feel free to explicate your views on the matter, keeping in mind that intellectual
    property law a) encompasses areas other than your industry; and b) defines your
    protected economic interests and not vice versa."
  created: '2009-02-23 04:34:22'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Since Mr. David Berlow claims that the fonts sold by Font Bureau are \"font
    software\" and since he claims that <cite>\"we send all of our works to the copyright
    office for \u2019font software\u2019 registration\"</cite>, I had a closer look
    at one of the fonts, namely at the font \"Benton Sans\".\r\n\r\nAt the Font Bureau
    website (see www.fontbureau.com/cart/license/single) we read in the <cite>\"Font
    Software License Agreement\"</cite> that the \"licensee\" is requested to sign
    that the author of the \"font software\", here for example the author of  \"Benton
    Sans\", has written the \"source code\" of this so-called \"font software\" and
    that therefore the <cite>\"Licensee agrees not to decompile, reverse engineer,
    disassemble\"</cite> this so-called \"font software\".\r\n\r\nBy studying the
    internals of \"Benton Sans\", I came to the conclusion that no human being ever
    wrote any source code to this so-called \"font software\".\r\n\r\nIncidentally,
    the hinting of the font is virtually non-existent (at least the font version which
    I examined and which has the internal font number 2000956):\r\n\r\nsee http://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/BentonSans1.jpg\r\n\r\nsee
    http://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/BentonSans2.jpg\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-23 07:29:49'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Rest assured that when the time is right it will be professionally edited.\"\r\nRest
    assured that time has past. \r\n\r\n\"By studying the internals of \u201CBenton
    Sans\u201D, I came to the conclusion... \"\r\nBy listening to this and your other
    conclusions, I've come to other conclusions.\r\n\r\n\"... therefore the \u201CLicensee
    agrees not to decompile, reverse engineer, disassemble\u201D this so-called \u201Cfont
    software\u201D\r\nReally? That is not what anyone else has read, Ever. It actually
    says we have rights and are the owners of those rights according to the law here,
    where it was published. Then, separately, it says by licensing this software,
    (regardless of what may or may not be legal in you country), licensee agrees not
    to...Got vomit?\r\n\r\n\"Incidentally, the hinting of the font is virtually non-existent...\"\r\nIs
    it illegal to download illegally uploaded fonts? And is it illegal to use them?\r\n\r\nMaybe
    you are needing to de-stress your mind by upgrading to antialiasing font software.
    I have not seen such crap rendering since before 1990.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-23 12:51:24'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: "<cite> Rest assured that time has past. </cite>\r\n\r\nYou must not understand
    the concept of a working paper. Either you understood the ideas despite the presentation,
    or you didn't.  One does not spend valuable time editing a working paper until
    it's substantially ready for publication. So the time has not <em>passed</em>. "
  created: '2009-02-23 15:55:58'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Berlow:\r\n\r\n> I have not seen such crap rendering since before 1990.\r\n\r\nThe
    \"crap rendering\" stems from your Benton Sans of 2003, which was not hinted at
    all, while the version of 2008 (as used in the type specimen file BentonSans.pdf
    at your Font Bureau website) is hinted indeed.\r\n\r\nWhen a real professional,
    for instance someone like Juri Yarmola, who is both a programming expert and a
    font expert, compares the internals of any letter from the version of 2003 with
    the internals of the corresponding letter from the version of 2008, for instance
    these two letter internals\r\n\r\n2003: 68 CC B9 B7 76 D9 80 8B 05 E0 17 9B FD
    C3 47 EB 1F F2 2F E4 6D 79 15 31 91\r\n\r\n2008: 68 CC B9 B7 76 D9 80 8B 68 11
    BD BC BC D3 47 18 2C 5B 2E B4 6F C0 35 E7 2F 78 EA 93 34 4B 26 29 08 F5 E9 66\r\n\r\nthen
    he will recognize at once that nobody wrote the \"source code\" of the so-called
    \"font software\", because completely different drawing sequences had been generated
    fully automatically by two completely different font generating programs in 2003
    and 2008. Neither Tobias Frere-Jones nor Cyrus Highsmith, who have been declared
    by Mr. David Berlow at his website to be the designers alias \"programmers\" of
    the design alias \"program\" of Benton Sans alias News Gothic, would have been
    able to write the \"source code\" for these completely different drawing sequences.\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-23 16:23:44'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "EK: \"You must not understand the concept of a working paper.\"\r\nYes I
    do. Fee phishing is an ugly business. And legal fee phishing is a really ugly
    business. \r\n\r\nYou know?\r\n\"For example, font designers who do not actually
    write code, but who use programs such as Adobe Illustrator to assist them in developing
    code, may not be creating original code in the sense required by copyright law.
    Their efforts are not in the code-writing area. The code production is merely
    incidental to the generation of their font designs.\"\r\n\r\n\" ...may not be...\"
    being the phishing lure used here. By the time this working paper is complete,
    I expect each and every paragraph to lead to a fee. The typing of code itself
    is not the entire process of digital type, movie, web or musical authoring. \r\nGo
    on, I dare you. \r\n\r\nDo you understand what this kind of phishing does to the
    uninformed minds it reaches? (Uli calm down, I get to you in a minute)\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-23 20:57:05'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: "<cite> \u201CYou must not understand the concept of a working paper.\u201D\r\nYes
    I do. Fee phishing is an ugly business. And legal fee phishing is a really ugly
    business. </cite>\r\n\r\nSure you do, and your argument is proof incontrovertible."
  created: '2009-02-24 00:03:59'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: ">> \u201CFor example, font designers who do not actually write code, ...\r\n>
    \u201D ...may not be...\u201D being the phishing lure used here...\r\n\r\nI think
    that digressions to \"phishing fees\" etc. are not helpful.\r\n\r\nAbove in this
    thread, Mr. Berlow wrote:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"... we send all of our works to the copyright
    office for \u2019font software\u2019 registration ...\"</cite>\r\n\r\nSo, the
    only important and only decisive question is this:\r\n\r\nIs that which was sent
    by Mr. Berlow a copyrightable work?\r\n\r\nI am sure that he did not send \"source
    code\" to the copyright office, because there exists no \"source code\" for the
    so-called \"font software\" Benton Sans, since nobody wrote source code for Benton
    Sans.\r\n\r\nDid Mr. Berlow send a hexadecimal dump of the font file?\r\n\r\nsee
    http://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/SourceCode.gif\r\n\r\nBut neither a font
    file nor its hex dump are \"font software\".\r\n\r\nReal font software, which
    is really copyrightable, is this:\r\n\r\nFor instance, all editors for the making
    of fonts are real font software, e.g. Font Lab, Fontographer, Font Forge, Type
    Designer, Font Creator, etc. etc.\r\n\r\nFurthermore, the components of the operating
    systems (Win, Mac etc.) which display the letters on CRT or TFT monitors, are
    real font software. In case of MS Windows, it is the GDI that is font software.
    The Windows GDI generates the contours of the glyphs on the computer screen on
    the basis of the x-y-coordinates of the contours of the letters contained in the
    font files. But the GDI is a component of the MS Windows operating system and
    not a component of the \"Benton Sans\" font file. The \"Benton Sans\" font file
    only contains the contours of letters and does not contain the software required
    for displaying these contours on the screen. Hence the font \"Benton Sans\" cannot
    be registered as \"font software\" at the copyright office."
  created: '2009-02-24 07:21:52'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "I said above: \"Hence the font \u201CBenton Sans\u201D cannot be registered
    as \u201Cfont software\u201D at the copyright office.\"\r\n\r\nAt the US Copyright
    Office nobody examines, whether that which you submit for registration is copyrightable
    or not, so that Font Bureau could also register the non-program \"Benson Sans\"
    as a \"computer program\":\r\n\r\nsee http://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/Registration.jpg\r\n\r\nIt
    is a funny joke, that Font Bureau stated Fontographer as \"preexisting material\".
    Even if they had stated Microsoft's GDI or Adobe's Type Manager as \"preexisting
    material\", the officers at the US Copyright Office would not have objected. In
    this funny font forging industry, it is easy to take even the officers at the
    US Copyright Office for a ride."
  created: '2009-02-24 12:39:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Uli, you think that only executable code is software, and not sets of numbers,
    electronically stored--the locations of the font's nodes and handles--that guide
    the executable code and determine the final result: the rendering of the character
    on paper or the screen. \r\n\r\nBut the one ruling on this issue, Adobe vs SSI,
    decides that such sets of numbers are software. You don't have to like it, but
    that is the legal precedent. So long as you fail to address that reality, you
    will convince nobody.  "
  created: '2009-02-24 14:51:29'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I am sure that he did not send \u201Csource code\u201D to the copyright
    office, because there exists no \u201Csource code\u201D for the so-called \u201Cfont
    software\u201D \"\r\n\r\nHuh? *All* software has *source code*. Be it Photoshop,
    my web site, a font, that JPG, Word Doc, etc.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-24 14:56:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I feel like we are witnessing legal arguments between  Perry Mason wannabees
    and the Cochran Group fan club. The legal brief sounds like a Uligy to me. :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-02-24 16:10:01'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "U.S. Copyright Code, Title 17, Section 101 \"Definitions\":\r\n\r\n<cite>A
    \u201Ccomputer program\u201D is a set of statements or instructions to be used
    directly\r\nor indirectly in a computer in order to bring about a certain result.
    (5)</cite>\r\n\r\n[. . .]\r\n\r\n<cite>(5) In 1980, the definition of \u201Ccomputer
    program\u201D was added to section 101. Pub. L. No. 96-517, 94 Stat. 3015, 3028.
    The Intellectual Property and High Technology Technical Amendments Act of 2002
    amended section 101 by moving the definition for computer program from the end
    of section 101 to be in alphabetical order, after \u201Ccompilation.\u201D Pub.
    L. No. 107-273, 116 Stat. 1758, 1909.\"</cite>\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-24 16:21:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "This is a moot point.\r\nMany fonts with OpenType features have \"proper\"
    code written by the type designer, e.g.\r\n\r\nlookup smcp_latn1 {\r\n\tsub @smcp_latn1
    by @smcp_latn2;\r\n\tsub @figs_numr by @figs_sups;\r\n\tsub @figs_dnom by @figs_sinf;\r\n}
    smcp_latn1;"
  created: '2009-02-24 17:17:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "With that piece of original coding, I downsize fraction number glyphs for
    small caps--perhaps I should apply for a patent?\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nIt's unfortunate
    for type designers, but most people don't understand that type design is not just
    about making attractive-looking letters, but concerns the visual mechanics of
    how letters fit with one another. Of course, if one looks at letters individually,
    they don't appear to have much originality--but the same could be said of the
    components of music or literature. The way type design is treated, it's like the
    only novel that could be copyright protected would be entirely composed of neologisms,
    or shizzolated, which would be the equivalent of the gimmick fonts shown in the
    Lipton tract."
  created: '2009-02-24 17:19:42'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: "In Canada, \u201Cevery original literary, dramatic, musical and artistic
    work\u201D is subject to copyright. \"Literary work\" includes computer programs,
    and \"computer program\" means \"a set of instructions or statements, expressed,
    fixed, embodied or stored in any manner, that is to be used directly or indirectly
    in a computer in order to bring about a specific result\".\r\n\r\nHowever, in
    Canada, downloading for private study or other fair dealing purpose is not illegal
    even if the uploading was illegal."
  created: '2009-02-24 19:08:29'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "The Lipton article is very interesting, albeit in need of much work. I want
    to give her feedback in hope of improving it, but a first pass suggests that writing
    up such feedback will be an all-day endeavor.  :(\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-02-24 21:00:41'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "This debate about software and code is weird. Who writes assembly code (or
    Basic for that matter) by hand?\r\nWho writes PostScript by hand? POP, anyone?
    Compilers of all levels have been in use for decades, and yet all resulting software
    is protected by copyright.\r\n\r\n%%EOF\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-24 21:49:57'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Who writes PostScript by hand? POP, anyone? \r\n\r\nYes, Pop did write PostScript
    by hand for years. We miss him :-("
  created: '2009-02-24 22:03:05'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Goodonya, Sii :)
  created: '2009-02-24 22:07:43'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: who said anything about writing by hand?
  created: '2009-02-24 22:11:29'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "<em>By studying the internals of \u201CBenton Sans\u201D, I came to the conclusion
    that no human being ever wrote any source code to this so-called \u201Cfont software\u201D.\r\n...\r\n\r\nWhen
    a real professional, for instance someone like Juri Yarmola, who is both a programming
    expert and a font expert, compares the internals of any letter from the version
    of 2003 with the internals of the corresponding letter from the version of 2008,
    for instance these two letter internals\r\n\r\n2003: 68 CC B9 B7 76 D9 80 8B 05
    E0 17 9B FD C3 47 EB 1F F2 2F E4 6D 79 15 31 91\r\n\r\n2008: 68 CC B9 B7 76 D9
    80 8B 68 11 BD BC BC D3 47 18 2C 5B 2E B4 6F C0 35 E7 2F 78 EA 93 34 4B 26 29
    08 F5 E9 66\r\n\r\nthen he will recognize at once that nobody wrote the \u201Csource
    code\u201D of the so-called \u201Cfont software\u201D, because completely different
    drawing sequences had been generated fully automatically by two completely different
    font generating programs in 2003 and 2008.</em>\r\n\r\nHow about reading the thread?"
  created: '2009-02-24 22:17:34'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Who writes PostScript by hand?</em>\r\n\r\nAnything is possible in the
    alternate reality known as \"The Uliverse\".\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/twilight_3491.jpg]"
  created: '2009-02-25 06:34:46'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "\"Source code\" of my comment:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/PostScript.ps\r\n\r\n\"Object
    code\" of my comment:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/PostScript.pdf\r\n\r\nPS:
    Mr. Berlow went into hiding, no?"
  created: '2009-02-25 07:55:41'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "@Phinney: \"a first pass suggests that writing up such feedback will be an
    all-day endeavor.\"\r\nAll of an earth day, or you traveling on Saturn where you
    might have a chance to react in a \"day\"? ;)\r\n\r\n@Uli: <em> I apologize for
    making such rude remarks about Matthew, Mike and Roger, who are not here to defend
    themselves, and wouldn't even if they were here because I'm such a rude and verbosely
    argumentative person they couldn't stay long anyway.\"</em>\r\n\r\nAccepted.\r\n\r\n@Uli:
    <em> I'm also sorry I don't really know much about how all this works, I'm just
    trying to learn by making wild statements and seeing what happens. </em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    what I thought! :) e.g. At the US Copyright Office nobody examines, whether that
    which you submit for registration is copyrightable or not. Lawyers should know
    how this works but since Lipton says it's an issue Uli must jump! I know how it
    works \u2014 class?\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-25 13:17:46'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "EK:\r\n\r\n> <cite>who said anything about writing by hand?</cite>\r\n\r\nNowadays,
    it is possible to produce \"computer-generated works\" instead of writing works
    \"by hand\".\r\n\r\nsee www.law.duke.edu/journals/dltr/articles/2001dltr0024.html\r\n\r\nA
    typical example of computer-generated works is the conversion of fonts from one
    format to another. Let's assume, you have 1000 fonts in PostScript format, which
    you want to convert to TrueType fonts. If you use a converter (e.g. TransType,
    see www.fontlab.com/font-converter/transtype), your only own \"creative\" activity
    will consist in clicking on the folder, so that the converter knows the fonts
    you want to convert. Then, it generates fully automatically 1000 TrueType fonts
    as computer-generated works.\r\n\r\nDo you think you have become the author of
    1000 copyrightable works?\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-25 15:41:30'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: I was just responding to someone's comment about writing by hand, since I
    didn't understand where it came from.
  created: '2009-02-25 17:24:49'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "@people-reading-Uli: In the conversion example, it's a derivative work. Usual
    guidelines for derivative works apply.\r\n\r\n@Dave Berlow: I finished writing
    up all my comments on the article today. I just need to write a nice letter to
    go with it, &c.\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-26 03:41:46'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Thomas Phinney:\r\n\r\n> <cite>@people-reading-Uli: In the conversion
    example, it\u2019s a derivative work. Usual guidelines for derivative works apply.</cite>\r\n\r\n<strong>This
    Being is Nothingness!</strong>\r\n\r\nCopyright protection is only granted to
    authors of intellectual works. Copyright law rewards the creative intellectual
    activity of authors. A work of authorship is a work created by the own intellect
    of the autor. If a person does not exercise his own intellect, he cannot be the
    author of an intellectual work and hence cannot be granted copyright protection.\r\n\r\nHere
    is a fictitious example, which is easier to understand than the above font conversion
    example:\r\n\r\nAt the website of Mr. Ricardo Cordoba, who uploaded above \"Twilight
    Zone\" picture, we learn that he learnt the English and the Spanish language so
    that he has the intellectual ability to create works of authorship in English
    and Spanish. But Mr. Cordoba did not learn the French and the German language,
    so that he does not have the intellectual ability to create works of authorship
    in French and German.\r\n\r\nNow let's assume there is a copyright lawsuit, and
    Mr. Cordoba as a defendant states that he translated Sartre's French work \"L'\xEAtre
    et le n\xE9ant\"\r\n\r\nwww.amazon.fr/LEtre-N%C3%A9ant-Jean-Paul-Sartre/dp/2070293882\r\n(For
    English see www.en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Being_and_Nothingness)\r\n\r\ninto the German
    language. The judge asks whether Mr. Cordoba can read and write French and German
    books, which is denied by Mr. Cordoba, who claims that no knowledge of languages
    is require for copyright protection, because he bought a computer translation
    program which made a fully automatic translation of the electronic file of the
    French work \"L'\xEAtre et le n\xE9ant\" into the German language so that he is
    the author of the German translation \"Das Sein und das Nichts\" as a derivative
    work of copyright.\r\n\r\nIs this correct?\r\n\r\nWho does not exercise his own
    intellect cannot be the author of intellectual works and therefore cannot be granted
    protection by the copyright law.\r\n\r\nAnother example: Mr. Thomas Phinney and
    Mr. Miguel Sousa repeatedly stated here and elsewhere that all Adobe PostScript
    and OpenType fonts are fully automatically hinted by entering a simple command
    line such as\r\n\r\nautohint -a AGaramondPro-Regular.otf\r\n\r\nIrrespective of
    whether hints of PostScript fonts are regarded as computer programs or not, they
    are generated fully automatically so that he who enters above command line does
    not need to have any intellectual ability whatsoever except the ability to enter
    the command line. But he who does not exercise his own intellect cannot be the
    author of intellectual works so that nobody can be granted protection by the copyright
    law for automatically generated hints of PostScript fonts.\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-26 08:39:14'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "<cite>But he who does not exercise his own intellect cannot be the author
    of intellectual works so that nobody can be granted protection by the copyright
    law for automatically generated hints of PostScript fonts.</cite>\r\n\r\nFinally,
    Uli, you wrote something I agreed with. Let's both mark this day on our calendars,
    shall we?\r\n\r\nHaven't heard back from Ms Lipton yet. If she's interested in
    it, it will be interesting to see how she reacts to my initial 1800 words of commentary.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-02-26 08:50:32'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> Let\u2019s both mark this day on our calendars, shall we?\r\n\r\nYES.\r\n\r\nI
    have heard from others that you are a very fine chap, and I wish you were not
    my intellectual opponent in copyright law matters."
  created: '2009-02-26 09:04:44'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Nick Shinn:\r\n\r\n> <cite>This is a moot point. Many fonts with OpenType
    features have \u201Cproper\u201D code written by the type designer, e.g.\r\n\r\nlookup
    smcp_latn1 {\r\nsub @smcp_latn1 by @smcp_latn2;\r\nsub @figs_numr by @figs_sups;\r\nsub
    @figs_dnom by @figs_sinf;\r\n} smcp_latn1;</cite>\r\n\r\nI consulted the OpenType
    font format specifications here:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/Typography/otspec/chapter2.htm\r\n\r\nIf
    I understand these OpenType specifications correctly, then GSUB definitions, which
    at first glance look, as if they were the source code of an executable computer
    program, are not compiled into an executable program, but instead a non-executable
    lookup data table is generated on the basis of this pseudo code. If my assumption
    is correct, then OpenType features are not computer programs, but only binary
    data, i.e. binary lookup tables. But those who are more familiar with the internal
    structure of OpenType features may correct me.\r\n\r\nPS: In the above chapter2.htm,
    the word \"program\" is used nowhere, and the word \"code\" is used in this chapter
    only in the sense of Unicode, character code etc."
  created: '2009-02-26 15:05:46'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Uli, if you read the definition Kent posted, above, in the US copyright code,
    a computer program (= software) is any set of statements or instructions that
    results \"directly or indirectly\" in bringing about \"a certain result\". In
    this case the result is the rasterized character. Thus both the sets of numbers
    representing nodes and handles--the code for the glyphs--and the open type code
    are software. \r\n\r\nIf I'm not mistaken, at the level of machine code, every
    statement is a number or set of numbers. The computer only knows numbers.  "
  created: '2009-02-26 17:35:14'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Berkson:\r\n\r\nIt is now exactly six years ago, that I studied the technical
    details of the data structures of OpenType feature lookup tables, so that I cannot
    answer your question exactly (this would require for me to study the data structures
    again in detail, and for this again I do not have enough time right now)."
  created: '2009-02-26 20:17:59'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: "<cite> Who does not exercise his own intellect cannot be the author of intellectual
    works and therefore cannot be granted protection by the copyright law. </cite>\r\n\r\nIn
    \"sweat of the brow\" jurisdictions, this is not so clear."
  created: '2009-02-26 20:54:00'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Sent my thoughts off to Ms Lipton after a pleasant email. I should mention
    that she characterized the paper as \"an early draft.\"\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-02-26 21:47:30'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "<em>It is now exactly six years ago, that I studied the technical details
    of the data structures of OpenType feature lookup tables, so that I cannot answer
    your question exactly</em>\r\n\r\nNot a question in question, more a statement.\r\n\r\nObfuscation,
    evasion, leaps in arguments, verbosity, scholarly jargon misused, pretentiousness,
    browbeating: what weaponry.\r\nWait, I forgot vomit."
  created: '2009-02-26 21:55:45'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>At the website of Mr. Ricardo Cordoba</em>\r\n\r\nUli, I do not have
    a website... Maybe you were looking at my online portfolio, but that is <em>not</em>
    my website.\r\n\r\nAlso, I do not like the way you strike back at people who make
    a joke... You do not joke... ever. You are much too serious. Not to mention bitter,
    and retaliatory. Something is indeed wrong with your programming.\r\n\r\n<em>If
    I understand these OpenType specifications correctly</em>\r\n\r\nI seriously doubt
    you understand anything correctly. But what's worse, there are a lot of people
    here, patiently trying to reason with you, and you continue to be obstinate...
    extremely so."
  created: '2009-02-27 04:17:45'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Ricardo Cordoba:\r\n\r\n> <cite>I seriously doubt you understand anything
    correctly.</cite>\r\n\r\nI have written a lot of books, most of them reprinted
    in second and third editions, and the books written by me also include four books
    about computer programming.\r\n\r\nBut you may continue to seriously doubt that
    I understand anything correctly. I think that you yourself never doubt that you
    yourself understand anything correctly."
  created: '2009-02-27 04:57:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Ricardo, I think he mistook you for Ricardo Montalban, he has a website :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-02-27 04:57:17'
- author:
    name: Artur Schmal
    picture: 110750
  body: "I was always under the assumption that 'software' can actually be anything
    which <em>is not</em> hardware.\r\nSo i.e. databases or libraries are to be considered
    software as well, although you would need a 'program' to produce any kind of result
    out of them. In this respect digital font files should be considered software
    as well.\r\n\r\nFurther, I find it hard to belief that digital font files that
    have not manually been written bite by bite can not be copyrighted.\r\nThis would
    mean that one also can not claim copyright for jpg files exported from Photoshop
    or pdf files exported from a lay-out application.\r\n\r\n\r\nBest,\r\nArtur\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-27 08:08:50'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Schmal:\r\n\r\n> <cite>This would mean that one also can not claim copyright
    for jpg files exported from Photoshop or pdf files exported from a lay-out application.</cite>\r\n\r\nFor
    you in the Netherlands, all creative \"works of art\", whether drawn or painted,
    whether a picture on paper or a picture file (jpg, tif, bmp etc.), are protected
    by copyright law, but you cannot claim a <strong>separate</strong> copyright for
    a jpg file of a painting. But since paintings in whatever physical form are copyright
    as \"works of art\", why do need a separate copyright for jpg files?\r\n\r\nBy
    the way, in the German Nazi era, a few \"Nazi\" typefaces had been regarded by
    the third \"Reich\" supreme court as \"works of art\". Some of these \"works of
    art\" (\"kunstwerk\" in German and Dutch language) are depicted here:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/kunstwerk.pdf\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-27 10:40:31'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Obfuscation, evasion, leaps in arguments, verbosity, scholarly jargon misused,
    pretentiousness, browbeating: what weaponry.\"\r\nYou cannot be talking about
    Uli the \"humanist\", can u?\r\n\r\n\"I should mention that she characterized
    the paper as \u201Can early draft.\u201D\r\nHey! that's what they called the Titanic
    too. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-27 12:16:41'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "I think that jlt said it best, earlier in this thread:\r\n\r\n<em>The world
    is hard enough - why would you knowingly add to the amount of unpleasantness in
    it? Don\u2019t you have better things to do with your existence?</em>\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-27 14:51:47'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: "a lot of fancy language here being used to justify unethical behavior (mostly
    blaming even more unethical behavior on foundries).\r\n\r\nwhat is the point of
    living unethically? who really benefits? does it make the world better?\r\n\r\nthese
    are not questions for uli to ask the rest of us, but for him to ask himself.\r\n\r\nnobody
    is being converted here. i think this would work better as an internal dialogue,
    a topic for meditation."
  created: '2009-03-03 21:52:50'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "Well, skipping Uli and opponents, coming back to the original question:\r\n\r\nNo,
    it's not illegal to download illegally uploaded fonts. However it would be \"illegal\"
    to use them. So what's the point in d/l-ing them in the first place then??*\r\n\r\n[Though
    if I understand it correctly, _technically_ it wouldn't even be illegal to use
    them, merely not rightful. (Or is it only me who understands the word \"legal\"
    as a public law expression, not applicable in civil law, where you might not have
    the right to do something, e.g. not the licence to use the font)].\r\n\r\nSzabolcs\r\n\r\n*)
    Of course there might be cases, e.g. as the abovementioned private study, etc.:\r\nHowever,
    in Canada, downloading for private study or other fair dealing purpose is not
    illegal even if the uploading was illegal."
  created: '2009-03-03 23:37:30'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>For you in the Netherlands, all creative \u201Cworks of art\u201D,
    whether drawn or painted, whether a picture on paper or a picture file (jpg, tif,
    bmp etc.), are protected by copyright law</em>\r\n\r\nSo how does this apply to
    type designs / typefaces / fonts then (in the Netherlands)?\r\nI thought it also
    applied to these, but with all the vague debates about it, I don't know anymore."
  created: '2009-03-04 18:54:12'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "http://www.wipo.int/copyright/en/\r\nhttp://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Universal_Copyright_Convention_(Geneva_Act)\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universal_Copyright_Convention\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-04 22:48:42'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "I'm kind of surprised that a discussion about if it OK or not to use stuff
    somebody elses swiped would go on for so long. Maybe I'm missing something, but
    it dosen't seem like there is much of a grey area here.\r\n\r\nIs it OK to accept
    a stereo that \"fell of the back of a truck\"?\r\n\r\nWell... No. It's not, but
    if you are determined to do so any how, it's your conscience. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2009-03-05 03:36:08'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: "The analogy to a physical object fails (again). The owner of the stereo has
    been illegally dispossessed. The owner of the copyright may have lost a profit,
    but profits are only protected in part by the law, and the nature of the protection
    is fundamentally different.\r\n\r\nMoreover, the creator of this thread asked
    if downloading and using is illegal, not if it offends anyone's conscience.\r\n\r\nIf
    you've followed the discussion here, you should have understood that there is
    nothing to prevent downloading of the fonts (certainly not in Canada) and that
    the legality of use is determined by the type of use, and not by the manner the
    fonts were acquired. Creators have rights, and so do users.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-05 04:22:48'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Come to think of it, I actually find it kinda funny to ask these kind of questions
    on Typophile. For all we know it the illegal fonts he is talking about were designed
    by one of the people posting in this thread. Which would basically change the
    question to "Hai gais, I found yer font illegally, can I haz it for free???/ I
    don't care if u dont get money!!1".
  created: '2009-03-05 19:11:58'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "The idea that digital content, just because it is easy to copy, is somehow
    exempt from the rules that apply to physical content (an idea similar to the notion
    that \"information wants to be free\"), is at least partly to blame for the sorry
    state of the music and newspaper industries... and probably some other industries,
    too.\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-06 01:14:49'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: "I'm afraid you have it all wrong, Ricardo. Suppose you open a business and
    do well. Suppose I open a competing business across the street and take away some
    of your business. I caused you economic harm. I may even took advantage of your
    efforts, since some of my clients only became aware of my business by coming to
    you first.\r\n\r\nYet, the fact that I caused you economic harm doesn't mean I
    took away your property. Your profits are not legally protected (unless I violated
    some other right of yours, e.g., your trade-mark, or by \"passing-off\").\r\n\r\nThe
    term \"intellectual property\" misleads you into believing that your economic
    interests are protected beyond the scope of copyright, trade-mark, unfair competition,
    and other recognized categories of law. The right to exclusive profit from your
    creative work is not a natural right, but one that requires legislation.\r\n\r\nIf
    you fix your creative efforts in a physical medium, your property rights in the
    tangible are protected. In addition, the law prohibits others from unauthorized
    copying, unless it is for a permitted use (e.g., private study). But you cannot
    claim more than that. \r\n\r\nYes, some creators deserve better, but it is not
    possible to build a theory of property rights based on stomping one's foot and
    yelling, \"unfair!\". "
  created: '2009-03-06 05:13:41'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>The right to exclusive profit from your creative work is not a natural
    right, but one that requires legislation.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm quite aware of this;
    thanks anyway. However, the law is what permits society to exist -- it's an agreement
    or a contract. I could go set fire to my neighbor's house, but I don't. Not only
    because it's against the law, but because I would feel bad if I did it. It would
    just be wrong, period.\r\n\r\nAs russellm said above, \r\n\r\n<em>Is it OK to
    accept a stereo that \u201Cfell of the back of a truck\u201D?</em>\r\n\r\n<em>Well...
    No. It\u2019s not, but if you are determined to do so any how, it\u2019s your
    conscience.</em>"
  created: '2009-03-06 08:33:37'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "Actually you are right saying: it's law that makes society work.\r\nHowever,
    it's equally true, that it's more often than not actual law and legal, juridical
    practice (which does contradict moral law and conscience) that enables profits.
    I don't want to point to Wall Street here, for a most obvious and current example.
    ;-) &mdash;&mdash;&mdash; and I think, that&ndash;partially&ndash;it's similar
    reasons that motivates Uli (when attacking business practices of \"big\" foundries&ndash;nota
    bene, never directly designers), e.g.\r\n\r\nSzabolcs"
  created: '2009-03-06 12:29:40'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "<em>never directly designers</em>\r\n\r\nHuh? I could not be further away
    from Wall Street in any terms, yet I rely on the copyright protection to derive
    my (meagre) income from my font's sales.\r\n\r\nTo see the illegal use (read theft)
    of fonts repeatedly and systematically promoted on a forum ostensibly dedicated
    to font design and typography makes me wonder. Wouldn't a warez forum be more
    appropriate for this?"
  created: '2009-03-06 12:51:53'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: "@Ricardo: if everyone agreed about what's \"ok\", we wouldn't need the law,
    would we?\r\n\r\n@Paragraph: you are still confusing theft with unlawful use,
    as theft leaves the owner without the thing stolen, while unlawful use does not.
    There are cases where the user believes he was entitled to the use and the copyright
    holder does not; sometimes a court finds for the former, sometimes for the latter,
    but there's no theft there. \r\n\r\n@Paragraph2: And where did you see \"illegal
    use promoted\" here?"
  created: '2009-03-06 13:50:20'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>if everyone agreed about what\u2019s \u201Cok\u201D, we wouldn\u2019t
    need the law, would we?</em>\r\n\r\nIt's a social contract. You can play by the
    rules or not. No one ever said otherwise.\r\n\r\nBut if someone doesn't play by
    the rules and gets caught, there are consequences. Just like there are consequences
    for playing <em>by</em> the rules."
  created: '2009-03-06 15:02:58'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "EK, there are many threads such as this here, and they all revolve around
    using fonts without a licence. Anyone who argues for whatever reason that there
    is no copyright on fonts because they are not software or because they are not
    original enough is doing exactly that. I for one think that the original poster
    was having a bit of fun: why else put \u2018illegal\u2019 into the question three
    times?\r\n\r\n<em>Is it illegal to download illegally uploaded fonts? And is it
    illegal to use them?</em>\r\n\r\nAs before, how about reading the thread?"
  created: '2009-03-06 23:17:14'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: "I have to wonder at your question, since it's been dealt with extensively
    in this thread, including by some of your colleagues: No, the act of downloading
    is not illegal per se. As to the use, it may or may not be legal, regardless of
    the source of the font.\r\n\r\nThere is a fundamental flaw in your post, which
    you may refuse to acknowledge, but that's ok, since the law is the law no matter
    what you or I think, and the flaw is this: a licensed use is lawful, but an unlicensed
    use is not necessarily unlawful, since the law gives users rights, too. So, a
    creator might say, I don't allow my work to be used by X for purpose Y, and the
    law would answer that the creator's permission is not required. The fact that
    copyright exists in fonts, in countries where it does exist, does not mean that
    the rights of the copyright holder are unlimited, but that the font is property
    to the extent the statute says so and no more. If that is not clear to you, I
    can refer you to some good sources from Australia and other common law jurisdictions."
  created: '2009-03-07 01:29:05'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Oh please. Can we just settle on:\r\n\r\n<em>The fact that copyright exists
    in fonts, in countries where it does exist</em>\r\n\r\nand be done with it? That's
    actually all I'm asking."
  created: '2009-03-07 05:09:45'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: Do you really need me to say that? Copyright in fonts is recognized to various
    degrees in different countries.
  created: '2009-03-07 06:00:36'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "EK:\r\n\r\n> <cite>There is a fundamental flaw in your post</cite>\r\n\r\nThere
    is, unfortunately, also a fundamental flaw in your own post. For you as a professor
    of law, you should be able to  supply more than unhelpful, tautological statements
    such as this one: <cite>\"copyright exists in fonts, in countries where it does\"</cite>.\r\n\r\nIn
    my first post to this long thread I said:\r\n\r\n<strong>\"Even Chief Justice
    Roberts ... would never swear that fonts are computer programs ...  No sane person
    believes this rubbish, let alone the American Chief Justice Roberts\"</strong>\r\n\r\nIf
    you, as a professor of law, want to be really helpful, then specify a country
    (at least <strong>one</strong> country), where a person acting as was described
    here (www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/publicdomain.pdf, pages 2), is at this very
    moment a \"computer programmer\", who has just written a TrueType \"computer program\"."
  created: '2009-03-07 06:13:48'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I believe that it is self-evident that in the USA fonts are computer programs,
    as computer programs are defined for US copyright law. Fonts may or may not be
    computer programs under various other definitions of \"computer program,\" and
    that's an entertaining philosophical question, but those definitions are pretty
    much irrelevant to the situation under discussion.\r\n\r\nI would be willing to
    bet $1000 USD with you, Uli, that if the question ever reaches the US Supreme
    Court, and the definition they are using has not changed, they will indeed hold
    that outline fonts  are computer programs, and that whoever the Chief Justice
    is, he won't disagree with that point.\r\n\r\nHowever, much as I would love to
    see it happen, I sincerely doubt that any such case will be considered and decided
    on by the US Supreme Court in my lifetime.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-03-07 08:05:53'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\u201CEven Chief Justice Roberts ... would never swear that fonts are computer
    programs ... No sane person believes this rubbish, let alone the American Chief
    Justice Roberts\u201D\r\n\r\nGive sufficient practice, that man can swear anything
    to anyone, trust me. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2009-03-07 12:30:31'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: "I'll admit, Uli, that's my argument is unhelpful \u2013 to you. But then
    again, I am not your lawyer.\r\n\r\nAnd when you quote, quote fairly: \"The fact
    that copyright exists in fonts, in countries where it does exist, does not mean
    that the rights of the copyright holder are unlimited, but that the font is property
    to the extent the statute says so and no more.\" This sentence means exactly what
    it says, and it is not tautological in any accepted sense of the word."
  created: '2009-03-08 01:07:52'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "EK:\r\n\r\nThe word \"tautological\" (= tautologous\") is defined by Merrian-Webster's
    Collegiate Dictionary as <cite>\"true by virtue of its logical form alone\"</cite>.\r\n\r\nIn
    your unhelpful, tautological sentence:\r\n\r\n\u201CThe fact that copyright exists
    in <strong>fonts</strong>, in countries where it does exist, does not mean that
    the rights of the copyright holder are unlimited, but that the <strong>font</strong>
    is property to the extent the statute says so and no more.\u201D\r\n\r\nthe word
    \"font\" may be replaced by any other, e.g. by \"negro\":\r\n\r\n\u201CThe fact
    that copyright exists in <strong>negroes</strong>, in countries where it does
    exist, does not mean that the rights of the copyright holder are unlimited, but
    that the <strong>negro</strong> is property to the extent the statute says so
    and no more.\u201D\r\n\r\nand your sentence will still be <cite>\"true by virtue
    of its logical form alone\"</cite>.\r\n\r\nIf you want to be helpful, then specify
    a country, where a person acting as described here (www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/publicdomain.pdf,
    pages 2), is at this very moment a \u201Ccomputer programmer\u201D, who has just
    written a TrueType \u201Ccomputer program\u201D."
  created: '2009-03-08 06:39:34'
- author:
    name: tupper
  body: "While it may not be the case currently, fonts should be given some sort of
    legal protection that does not depend on them as being seen as computer programs.
    Control points and kerning data have value and take effort to produce. While I
    am no legal expert, I'd be quite surprised to see expert testimony (from comp
    sci. university professors or long-time programmers) giving uniformly strong support
    to the notion that control points and kerning data are computer programs. (Furthermore,
    fonts that do not involve computers or control points etc. should have some sort
    of protection.)\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-08 08:19:12'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> <cite>Control points and kerning data have value and take effort to produce.</cite>\r\n\r\nLook
    at this excerpt scanned from a math book:\r\n\r\nsee www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/control_points.jpg\r\n\r\nIt
    shows many \"control points\", both as a table and as a graph.\r\n\r\nBut who
    would say that this is a \"computer program\"?\r\n\r\nIn a font file, \"control
    points\" are nothing but sequences of numbers:\r\n\r\nsee www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/computerprogramm.pdf
    (page 2 seq.)\r\n\r\nIf someone writes down the numbers from 1 to 100000:\r\n\r\n1,
    2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 ...  99998, 99999, 100000\r\n\r\nor any other arbitrary
    sequence of numbers, e.g.:\r\n\r\n... -10736, -5438, -2227, 0, 9358, 17559, 93457
    ...\r\n\r\nall this \"takes effort to produce\", that's sure.\r\n\r\nBut a sequence
    of numbers is not copyrightable."
  created: '2009-03-08 09:34:25'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Q.E.D. D as in delusion.
  created: '2009-03-08 10:11:00'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "<cite>But who would say that this is a \u201Ccomputer program\u201D?</cite>\r\n\r\nAnybody
    who has read the relevant definition of \"computer program\" would say so.\r\n\r\nFor
    at least the second time in this thread: \"A \u201Ccomputer program\u201D is a
    set of statements or instructions to be used directly or indirectly in a computer
    in order to bring about a certain result.\" So says the US Copyright Office document
    \"Copyright Registration for Computer Programs,\" in its very first sentence,
    entitled \"definition.\" http://www.copyright.gov/circs/circ61.pdf\r\n\r\nNow,
    one could reasonably argue that the US Copyright Office has a bad definition of
    \"computer program.\" But to argue that under the current law and policies of
    the copyright office, fonts are not computer programs... that's just silly.\r\n\r\nPlus,
    we need a moderator to clean up Uli's post (again). Some people just don't listen.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-08 10:15:19'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Phinney:\r\n\r\n><cite>\u201CA \u201Ccomputer program\u201D is a set
    of statements or instructions to be used directly or indirectly in a computer
    in order to bring about a certain result.\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\nI use the same definition\r\n\r\nBut
    a number, e.g. 7, is not a statement, not an instruction.\r\n\r\nI have always
    said that TrueType hints are computer programs\r\n\r\nsee www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/computerprogramm.pdf
    (page 10)\r\n\r\nbut sequences of numbers are no computer programs."
  created: '2009-03-08 10:56:32'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "They are programs (by that definition) because the use of those numbers brings
    about a result\u2014in this case, the rasterization of the outlines.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    these are not \"just numbers\" but rather coordinates.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-03-08 11:58:50'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: "Uli, if you want to use a dictionary, I suggest you look up id\xE9e fixe.\r\nThe
    problem with tautology is that the logic is indisputable, yet the sentence conveys
    no useful content. My sentence did not fall into that category, because its purpose
    wasn't to comment about whether copyright does or does not exist in fonts, but
    to distinguish the type of proprietary protection capable of existing in fonts
    as opposed to tangible property. The sentence was a response to a comment made
    by another poster, who suggested they should be identical. If my point is valid
    (and I believe it is), then it goes to explain my reply to the topic of the thread:
    whether downloading and use of material posted illegally is permissible. Your
    \"rebuke\" was not therefore not only uncalled for, but also irrelevant. It is
    the product of your singular fixation with one aspect of the controversy to the
    exclusion of all others. I wish your own comments could be more helpful to this
    discussion."
  created: '2009-03-08 19:13:49'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "EK:\r\n\r\n> <cite>\"its purpose wasn\u2019t to comment about whether copyright
    does or does not exist in fonts\"</cite>\r\n\r\nIf I were a professor of law and
    knew so little of the law, I would hide behind the lecturer's desk, so that the
    students couldn't see me and ask questions.\r\n\r\nLawyers love to resort to pseudo-scientific
    psychiatric terms of the 19th century. I wonder, why you did not suggest that
    I should look up the word <cite>\"drapetomania\"</cite> in Wikipedia."
  created: '2009-03-09 06:16:51'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: "I, not you, decide what I comment on, and that doesn't define my knowledge
    of the law (although, I gather, no one knows anything about the law who does not
    read your web pages at your command and parrots your point of view). \r\n\r\nI
    don't know what made you write what you did, other than your proclivity to making
    friends, but the exchange is archived here and speaks for itself. "
  created: '2009-03-09 06:37:28'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Get a room.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-03-09 11:35:02'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: And go make a powerpoint of it.
  created: '2009-03-09 17:37:41'
- author:
    name: tupper
  body: "<em>Look at this excerpt scanned from a math book:\r\nsee www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/control_points.jpg\r\nIt
    shows many \u201Ccontrol points\u201D, both as a table and as a graph.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    took a look, but I do not understand German. With that caveat, it doesn't seem
    to show control points. It seems to show a parabola along with sample points and
    a table of differences."
  created: '2009-03-09 23:17:03'
- author:
    name: tupper
  body: "<em>But a sequence of numbers is not copyrightable.</em>\r\n\r\nIf that's
    the case, that's yet another reason for copyright reform. Whether something is
    copyrightable or not should be resistant to encoding changes. If I choose to write
    poetry using decimal ASCII values, that alone shouldn't prevent my poems from
    being copyrightable.\r\n\r\nDecades ago I, and others I knew, wrote the occasional
    computer program directly in machine code (by that I mean entering the numeric
    codes directly rather using an assembler). This was practical given the machine
    architecture of the CPUs of that day. Should these programs, by dint of their
    construction, be unprotected by copyright?\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-09 23:23:44'
- author:
    name: tupper
  body: "<em>For at least the second time in this thread: \u201CA \u201Ccomputer program\u201D
    is a set of statements or instructions to be used directly or indirectly in a
    computer in order to bring about a certain result.\u201D So says the US Copyright
    Office document...</em>\r\n\r\nClaiming that control points are either statements
    or instructions that bring about a certain result is more than a bit of a stretch.
    If they are, what sort of files on a computer are not computer programs?\r\n\r\n<em>Also,
    these are not \u201Cjust numbers\u201D but rather coordinates.</em>\r\n\r\nHerein
    lies the rub. Control points have even more structure than being mere coordinates.
    But by imposing this additional structure (that of being control points for a
    certain class of outline curve), they move further away from being programs."
  created: '2009-03-09 23:36:20'
- author:
    name: tupper
  body: "<em>Come to think of it, I actually find it kinda funny to ask these kind
    of questions on Typophile. For all we know it the illegal fonts he is talking
    about were designed by one of the people posting in this thread. Which would basically
    change the question to \u201CHai gais, I found yer font illegally, can I haz it
    for free???/ I don\u2019t care if u dont get money!!1\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nYeah,
    I too find it kind of funny. I'd like to repeat that I think that those who have
    created fonts should have some legal control over their creations (or that society
    reward their efforts in some other meaningful way). From what I understand, this
    is the case here (in Canada, through the Industrial Design Act - although this
    too, should perhaps be amended)."
  created: '2009-03-09 23:56:01'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "if the original poster is still listening...\r\n\r\ni say download the font,
    and use it.\r\n\r\nbecause nobody will ever catch you.\r\n\r\nif they do, they
    will send a c&d letter,\r\nin which case you should stop using it.\r\n\r\nnow,
    i'm sure that _someone_ here\r\nwill argue with me about my advice.\r\n\r\ni submit
    that they would be better off\r\ntrying to find a way to _catch_ people\r\nwho
    will be using their font \"illegally\".\r\n\r\nthink about it...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-10 00:43:54'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"now, i\u2019m sure that _someone_ here will argue with me about my
    advice.\"</em>\r\nYes. Because the \"they\" you're talking about ain't \"them\",
    it's us. \r\nYou're in the lion's den, dude.\r\n\r\n<em>\"i submit that they would
    be better off trying to find a way to _catch_ people who will be using their font
    \u201Cillegally\u201D.\"</em>\r\nI submit that you should stick around a while,
    read more than you post, and learn to respect and value the work that type designers
    do."
  created: '2009-03-10 01:36:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Claiming that control points are either statements or instructions that
    bring about a certain result is more than a bit of a stretch. If they are, what
    sort of files on a computer are not computer programs?\r\n\r\nTupper, if you read
    some of the above you will see that the US courts have ruled that fonts are software,
    and can be protected as such. \r\n\r\nAs to what are not programs, that's a good
    question. I would say an example are non-executuable text files, such as these
    you are reading. \r\n\r\nI don't know if the court discussed that, but it seems
    to me that text files or data files have value from their meaning, whereas fonts
    are digital tools, which only create value when they are used as part of programs
    designed to produce the end result: type on the screen or on paper. "
  created: '2009-03-10 01:47:23'
- author:
    name: tupper
  body: "<em>Tupper, if you read some of the above you will see that the US courts
    have ruled that fonts are software, and can be protected as such.</em>\r\n\r\nBerkson,
    not all of us are under the jurisdiction of US courts.\r\n\r\nYou seem to be conflating
    software and programs. Are you?\r\n\r\nPlease note that copyright as applied to
    computer programs does not directly involve the relationship it effects between
    input and output. One person can write a program that behaves, from a non-programmer's
    perspective, identically to another without running afoul of copyright law (at
    least as regards to the source codes of the two programs). Is this the sort of
    \"protection\" you want for fonts?\r\n\r\nMy earlier comments were not on entire
    font files, but on control points and kerning data. While I don't see these (control
    points and kerning data) as computer programs, I do see these as valuable and
    that we, as a society, should encourage work on them.\r\n\r\n<em>As to what are
    not programs, that\u2019s a good question. I would say an example are non-executuable
    text files, such as these you are reading.</em>\r\n\r\nWhy? ~~The use of those
    numbers (in this case, numbers representing text) brings about a result-in this
    case, the presentation of the text on the screen.~~ (I don't see it that way,
    I'm just not sure why control points are so different...)\r\n\r\nFor a programming
    language to be universally accepted as a programming language by the relevant
    experts, it would need to have at least a hint of general computation. (Just how
    low in the complexity hierarchy one would need to hint at could be argued, but
    the complexity involved in rendering the low-degree curves currently used in fonts
    would be far too low for universal agreement.)\r\n\r\n<em>I don\u2019t know if
    the court discussed that, but it seems to me that text files or data files have
    value from their meaning, whereas fonts are digital tools, which only create value
    when they are used as part of programs designed to produce the end result: type
    on the screen or on paper.</em>\r\n\r\nWell, the source code of many computer
    programs have definite value unrelated to whatever output they may produce when
    executed on a computer.\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-10 03:34:06'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Tupper, it's only fair to warn you that if you post more than three times
    in a row, hair willl grow on your palms.
  created: '2009-03-10 04:56:34'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "altaira said:\r\n>   You\u2019re in the lion\u2019s den, dude.\r\n\r\nright.
    \ i saw the signs outside.  that's why i came in.    :+)\r\n\r\n\r\n>   I submit
    that you should stick around a while, \r\n>   read more than you post, and learn
    to respect \r\n>   and value the work that type designers do.\r\n\r\nwell, i'll
    _probably_ stick around for a while...\r\n\r\nand i've already read a _lot_ more
    than i've posted,\r\nincluding every post in this ugly meandering thread.\r\n\r\nas
    for \"learning to respect and value the work\" you do,\r\ndo you think your work
    is any different from the digital\r\nproduct produced by creative artists across
    the board?\r\n\r\nthe advice i gave you is firmly and directly on-point...\r\n\r\nit's
    also the same advice i give to other digital artists.\r\n\r\nbecause, just like
    every other artist whose product is\r\ndigital, your work can easily be copied
    freely by people.\r\n\r\nand because of that, it _will_ be copied freely and easily.\r\n(if
    it's any good, that is.)\r\n\r\nnow, you can go on and on and on and on about
    how\r\n\"that's illegal\", but guess what?, that is no deterrent...\r\n\r\nyou
    might as well tell people that it's illegal to disobey\r\nthe speed limit.  guess
    what?  you're wasting your time.\r\npeople are going to disobey the speed limit...
    \ and they\r\nare going to copy your work freely and easily.  accept it.\r\nbecause
    there's _nothing_ you can do to stop 'em.  nada.\r\n\r\nfirst of all, you can't
    even _tell_ if someone is copying it.\r\nand even if you _could_, what are you
    gonna do about it?\r\ncall the sheriff, and tell him someone is using your font?\r\ni'm
    sure they'll get right out on that, with sirens blazing.\r\n\r\nunless you want
    the \"thieves\" to laugh at your impotence,\r\ni'd suggest that you tone down
    the rhetoric a few notches,\r\nbecause your hard-line looks silly without _enforcement_.\r\n\r\nso,
    like all of us other artists out there, you're going to\r\nhave to find a path
    that you can walk in this new world...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-10 06:36:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>... your hard-line looks silly without _enforcement_...</em>\r\n\r\nNo
    it doesn't.\r\nMoral suasion is a viable alternative to coercion.\r\nTo think
    otherwise is to condone the police state, the warlord, the bully.\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-10 08:29:44'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "@tupper:\r\n\r\nYou wrote: <cite>Please note that copyright as applied to
    computer programs does not directly involve the relationship it effects between
    input and output. One person can write a program that behaves, from a non-programmer\u2019s
    perspective, identically to another without running afoul of copyright law (at
    least as regards to the source codes of the two programs). Is this the sort of
    \u201Cprotection\u201D you want for fonts?</cite>\r\n\r\nNo, but it's the kind
    of \"protection\" we *have* in the USA, which was the point at question in this
    discussion. The professional type community is in no way lacking understanding
    of that, even if most of us think more/different protection would be a good thing.\r\n\r\n@bowerbird:\r\n\r\nHuh.
    So, your argument is that because lots of people are going to do \"x\" anyway,
    that makes it okay and you'll encourage people to do \"x\" if it is in their self-interest?
    Wow, not much you can't justify with that line of thinking.\r\n\r\nBut in any
    case, if you're going to encourage piracy, I for one won't have anything to do
    with you until/unless you stop. Don't expect any more helpful feedback from me.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-03-10 08:51:01'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "@bowerbird:\r\n\r\nThe fact that you <em>can</em> copy fonts illegally and
    use them, and alot of people do, doesn't mean that you should. There is also something
    like respect and morale. And professionality.\r\n\r\nClearly you like the fonts
    you copy, so why not let the designer know this by buying it? Otherwise you're
    just cheap and unprofessional."
  created: '2009-03-10 15:19:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Bowerbird, to many of us it's not mostly about law, it's about ethics, which
    everybody needs even though it's not about getting caught or not. But you seem
    to be interested only in convenience, or perhaps clueless rebellion, which is
    weakness of character. Maybe one day you'll realize that culture (like this thing
    you're posting on) does not arise from convenience, but from people caring about
    ideas - caring enough to help others. Otherwise you will remain a base form of
    life, akin to this: http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/science/nature/7928996.stm\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-10 15:39:49'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Hrant, that's what I'd call citing the right source at the right time! :->
  created: '2009-03-10 15:42:39'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "nick said:\r\n>   Moral suasion is a viable alternative to coercion.\r\n\r\nhey,
    good for you, you've taken the first step away from\r\n\"that's illegal\" to a
    position that might be more effective.\r\n\r\nof course, \"moral suasion\" might
    not be quite as cut-and-dried\r\nas _you_ consider it to be, but at least you're
    making progress...\r\n\r\n\r\n>   To think otherwise is to condone \r\n>   the
    police state, the warlord, the bully.\r\n\r\nit will take a police state to enforce
    our 20th-century view of\r\ncopyright in this 21st-century digital world we find
    ourselves.\r\n\r\nis that the kind of world you want us to live in?\r\n\r\nif
    not, then we need to create some alternatives that _work_.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nthomas
    said:\r\n\r\n>   Huh. So, your argument is that because lots of people \r\n>   are
    going to do \u201Cx\u201D anyway, that makes it okay and you\u2019ll \r\n>   encourage
    people to do \u201Cx\u201D if it is in their self-interest?\r\n\r\noh, c'mon,
    don't be silly, not if i should take you seriously.\r\n\r\ni didn't advise the
    original poster to \"just do it\" because i\r\nwanted to encourage him to think
    about his self-interest,\r\ni said it so that _you_ would think of _your_ self-interest,\r\nmost
    specifically about the wisdom of your current path...\r\n\r\nyou invoke \"the
    law\", but you have no way to _enforce_ it.\r\nyou couldn't even get the \"authorities\"
    to enforce it for you!\r\n\r\ndon't you realize how impotent that makes you?\r\n\r\nand
    yes, i certainly understand how utterly frustrated and\r\npowerless that impotence
    makes you feel, because i feel it,\r\njust like every creative artist today feels
    it, because we're all\r\nin the same boat.  people can \"take\" our stuff without
    paying.\r\n\r\nbut sticking your head in the sand won't solve the problem.\r\nrunning
    away won't solve the problem.\r\n\r\nwhat we need to do is to turn \"the problem\"
    to our advantage.\r\n\r\ni think it's possible to do that.  i firmly believe it's
    possible.\r\n\r\nindeed, i think this \"problem\" is an opportunity in disguise.\r\n\r\ni
    think it will turn out to be the best thing that ever happened\r\nto artists,
    and to our fans, and to society, and to our planet...\r\n\r\ni think we can finally
    overturn _greed_, and save the earth.\r\n\r\nand we'd better hurry, because the
    way that i see the future,\r\nwe've only got about a decade left.  so we better
    get to work.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-10 17:12:49'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "hrant said:\r\n>   Bowerbird, to many of us it\u2019s not mostly about law\r\n\r\nbut
    i notice that the first thing y'all say is \"that's illegal!\"\r\n\r\n\r\n>   Bowerbird,
    to many of us it\u2019s not mostly about law,\r\n>   it\u2019s about ethics, which
    everybody needs \r\n>   even though it\u2019s not about getting caught or not.
    \r\n\r\nas i said, ethics is a better argument than \"the law\".\r\n\r\nbut if
    you believe that \"ethics\" is clearly on your side,\r\nyou will soon find that
    some people disagree with you.\r\n\r\nthey will argue they haven't \"stolen\"
    anything from you,\r\nsince you still have everything you had, or have ever had.\r\n\r\nif
    they steal your car, they will have it, and you will not...\r\nif they \"steal\"
    your font, they have it, and you still have it.\r\n\r\nthey might even turn the
    \"ethics\" argument _against_ you.\r\nthey'll say that since the variable cost
    of copying your font\r\nis next to nothing, the price you are charging is a rip-off.\r\n\r\nwhether
    you agree with any of these positions is irrelevant,\r\nbecause they are the reality
    inside the head of the \"pirates\".\r\nso if you can't argue against 'em, you'll
    never be successful.\r\n\r\nthere are other arguments too.  some people see a
    solid\r\nrelationship between \"piracy\" and _increases_ in sales...\r\n\r\neven
    if you don't buy that, it's fairly clear that \"pirates\"\r\nwon't become \"buyers\"
    even if you thwart their \"piracy\".\r\nsince they never will be customers, you
    didn't \"lose\" them.\r\n\r\nbut no matter what, if you want to purse the \"ethics\"
    path,\r\nyou're going to have to engage in _dialog_, in _education_.\r\n\r\nyou're
    gonna have to participate in some _communication_\r\nwith the \"pirates\", and
    they aren't gonna come to the table\r\nif the first thing out of your mouth is
    \"that's illegal, thief!\"\r\n\r\n\r\n>   But you seem to be interested only in
    convenience, or \r\n>   perhaps clueless rebellion, which is weakness of character.\r\n\r\nyou're
    quick to judge, and to judge unfairly, and incorrectly.\r\n\r\nand if you treat
    all of the so-called \"pirates\" so flippantly,\r\ndon't be surprised if they're
    unwilling to dialog with you...\r\n\r\nand, because it doesn't seem to have soaked
    in quite yet,\r\ni'll remind you again that you are impotent to stop them.\r\n\r\nif
    you really want to use \"ethics\", you'll have to do dialog.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\np.s.
    \ i've never pirated a font in my life.  or bought one.\r\ni already have more
    fonts on my computer than i need\r\n-- heck, all i need is one font, to be honest
    with you --\r\nand they all came bundled when i bought it.  i don't care\r\nabout
    fonts.  never have.  only sissies care about fonts...       ;+)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-10 17:37:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>hey, good for you</em>\r\n\r\nPlease, don't patronize me.\r\n\r\nLike
    another recent new poster here, Eric Schrijver, you are laboring under a misapprehension.
    \r\nBut fonts are not \"in the same boat\" as music, literature and art.  \r\nA
    font is not a consumable cultural end-product.\r\nIt is a professional tool that
    adds value to work.\r\nCertainly, piracy is an issue, but not in the same way
    as for writing, songs and pictures.\r\n\r\n<em>it will take a police state to
    enforce our 20th-century view of copyright in this 21st-century digital world
    we find ourselves. is that the kind of world you want us to live in?</em>\r\n\r\nActually,
    that's why I was advocating moral suasion!\r\ni.e. \"Don't do it, it's illegal
    and therefore bad.\"\r\nNot, \"Don't do it, it's illegal, and you will be punished.\"\r\n\r\nDigital
    media makes nonsense of traditional copyright protection.\r\nBut that's not a
    good reason to abolish intellectual property rights. \r\n\r\n<em>...alternatives
    that _work_.</em>\r\n\r\nSome of those alternatives are at MyFonts.\r\nSuch as
    non-commercial/professional licences and freemiums.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-10 18:09:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> you\u2019ll have to do dialog.\r\n\r\nWhich is of course what this is.
    But you should excuse people for giving up on hopeless cases, especially when
    all the arguments being presented are old and worn, and have already been largely
    addressed on Typophile, by the very people in this thread.\r\n\r\nIf you're only
    into self-interest, this should\r\nbe very relevant: for you, the problem is you.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-10 18:48:57'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: "There's a great deal of overlap between the idealistic approaches expressed
    here and the law. For example, it is quite clear that pirating fonts and using
    them commercially is both wrong and illegal.\r\n\r\nAt the margin, however, there's
    substantial ambiguity that requires legal clarification; what is fair or moral
    depends on which side of the line you're on (general sentiment here being important,
    but not the only valuable perspective). \r\n\r\nIt's important to clarify the
    rights of creators, but the rights of users, too. We've heard here EULA disputes,
    where a creator thinks a restriction is \"fair\" and the user does not. The typical
    reaction here is to tell the user, \"take it or leave it\", but legislatures may
    have something to say."
  created: '2009-03-10 19:19:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Eran, well said. But first a person must care about more than himself. Otherwise
    he's doomed. And if too many people only care about themselves, we're all doomed
    (and I'm not talking about fonts). In fact one could say this is happening to
    the world right now, economically and environmentally. The cult of the self is
    taking us down with it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-10 19:38:38'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: '"must care about more than himself."  I agree.'
  created: '2009-03-10 21:26:52'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "nick said:\r\n>   Actually, that\u2019s why I was advocating moral suasion!\r\n>
    \  i.e. \u201CDon\u2019t do it, it\u2019s illegal and therefore bad.\u201D\r\n>
    \  Not, \u201CDon\u2019t do it, it\u2019s illegal, and you will be punished.\u201D\r\n\r\nwe
    will just have to disagree that \"illegal and therefore bad\"\r\nconstitutes \"moral
    suasion\".  anyone so brain-dead to build\r\nmoral philosophy around \"what's
    legal\" is, um, brain-dead.\r\nthe law, as they say, is an ass.\r\n\r\nwhat _i_
    mean by \"moral suasion\" is a _logical_argument_\r\nsomething is \"wrong\", one
    which convinces (or \"persuades\").\r\n\r\n\r\n>   Digital media makes nonsense
    of traditional copyright protection.\r\n\r\nok, good, i'm glad you can see that.\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  Digital media makes nonsense of traditional copyright protection.\r\n>   But
    that\u2019s not a good reason to abolish intellectual property rights.\r\n\r\nmaybe
    it's not.  (or maybe it is.)  but you'll need to _give_reasons_.\r\nbecause a
    simple-minded assertion isn't gonna convince _anyone_.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nhrant
    said:\r\n>   especially when all the arguments being presented are \r\n>   old
    and worn, and have already been largely addressed \r\n>   on Typophile, by the
    very people in this thread.\r\n\r\noh, i see, so all you have to do is get all
    the pirates\r\nto come here to typophile and read all those threads!\r\ni didn't
    realize you'd solved the problem.  case closed!\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\np.s.
    \ you guys don't work for the r.i.a.a., do you?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-10 21:30:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Bye bye birdie.
  created: '2009-03-11 01:26:10'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I actually agree that the argument that something is morally wrong because
    it's illegal is a pretty dubious one. \r\n\r\nOn the other hand, bb's need to
    insult and offend as much as possible makes me disinclined to continue the discussion.\r\n\r\n<cite>oh,
    c\u2019mon, don\u2019t be silly, not if i should take you seriously.\r\n\r\ni
    didn\u2019t advise the original poster to \u201Cjust do it\u201D because i\r\nwanted
    to encourage him to think about his self-interest,\r\ni said it so that _you_
    would think of _your_ self-interest,\r\nmost specifically about the wisdom of
    your current path...</cite>\r\n\r\nUrm, in which case, you are the one being silly.
    That has to be one of the dumbest things I have ever heard. You are a troll.\r\n\r\nWorse
    for you, you're an increasingly unsuccessful troll. For instance, you are making
    all sorts of false assumptions: in fact, at this point in my life I have *zero*
    self-interest in discouraging piracy. I may think piracy is bad, but reducing
    or eliminating piracy will not help me in any way.\r\n\r\nI'm out of this thread,
    though. Bye all.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-03-11 03:29:39'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Who wants to talk about \"ethics\" should have read some books about it.\r\n\r\nFor
    English readers, I recommend\r\n\r\n- G.E.Moore, \"Principia Ethica\" and \"Ethics\"\r\n-
    P.H.Nowell-Smith, \"Ethics\"\r\n\r\nScholarly books on ethics reveal puzzling
    \"naturalistic fallacies\"\r\n(see also http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Naturalistic_fallacy).\r\n\r\nNowell-Smith
    wrote in 1954 in his \"Ethics\" on page 41:\r\n\r\n<strong>\"Yes, you have convinced
    me that it is the right thing to do;\r\nbut ought I to do it?\"</strong>\r\n\r\nI
    stated above: \"It is my opinion that any work should get its adequate remuneration,
    and this also applies to designers of fonts\", and I think that decent people
    such as Nick Shinn are above reproach and should receive our support. But this
    industry does not only consist of decent one-man-designer-foundries, but is infested
    with many companies which rip off the fonts designed by others on a large scale
    and sell them under their own labels.\r\n\r\nThose who think that downloading
    is unethical should modify the question and ask: \"Is it unethical to download
    the fonts of rip-off foundries?\""
  created: '2009-03-11 07:25:29'
- author:
    name: bemerx25
    picture: 112539
  body: Going without can also be an ethical choice. No need to "break" any laws.
  created: '2009-03-11 11:35:18'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "if i'm a troll, i sure came to the right place, didn't i?          :+)\r\n\r\nget
    it out of your systems, kids, so we can start work,\r\nas i got a lot of questions
    you might want to answer...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\np.s.  and just so the all-important
    communication is clear...\r\n\r\n\"we\" above does not mean \"me and you\" for
    certain values\r\nof \"you\"; nope, it means \"me and the _other_ people here\".\r\n\r\nand
    \"you\" certainly does not mean _you_, at least not for\r\nany _singular_ value
    of \"you\"; please do not, as the kids\r\nsay, \"take it personally\", since it
    refers solely to the _plural_\r\nform of you, as in \"the vast majority of you\"
    and note that\r\nit expressly does _not_ mean \"all of you\", as some of you\r\nhave
    already eliminated yourselves, of your own volition,\r\nand i'm fine with that,
    and thank you for your fine decision.     :+)\r\n\r\nthat is, to rewrite for those
    of _you_ who need such a rewrite...\r\n\r\n\"get it out of your systems, kids,
    so we (that is, me and the\r\n_other_ people here) can start work, as i got a
    lot of questions\r\nyou (as in, not _you_, personally, but this self-declared
    group\r\nand its status as lovers of typography) might want to answer...\"\r\n\r\n...or...
    to put it yet another way,\r\n\"hey, i have some questions for book-designers...\"\r\n\r\nas
    for solutions to people who \"download and use illegal fonts\",\r\nyou might want
    to think about finding a way to gently lead them\r\nto an alternative path instead.
    \ ask yourself if this thread did that.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-11 22:35:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: bye_bye_birdie.
  created: '2009-03-11 22:37:31'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "nick, the first time it was cute, almost precious.\r\n\r\nbut the second
    time, it was merely repetitious...\r\n\r\nhowever, if you do it _three_ times
    (or even more!),\r\nit might start to be humorous, perhaps even funny!\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-11 22:57:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> we can start work\r\n\r\nDidn't you say you were a slacker?\r\nGo paint
    something.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-12 00:22:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Don't expect to get any more discussion after calling me brain-dead.\r\nThis
    site is for people who like type.\r\nBye_bye_bye."
  created: '2009-03-12 00:38:29'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "nick said:\r\n>   Don\u2019t expect to get any more discussion after calling
    me brain-dead.\r\n\r\nyou'd be a lot more believable if you stopped posting messages
    to me...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-12 03:50:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> posting messages to me...\r\n\r\nYou might enjoy thinking it's to you,
    but it's important to remember that it's public. In fact my own participation
    here is somewhat parallel to public flogging; it's very useful to have threads
    like this to point out when yet another public nuisance decides to drop by. So
    thank you.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-12 04:18:59'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: ">   public nuisance \r\n\r\ni guess that's why they call it \"hranting\",
    eh?        :+)\r\n\r\nlike i said elsewhere, thanks for making me feel at home...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-12 08:55:38'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: ">   public nuisance \r\n\r\ni guess that's why they call it \"hranting\",
    eh?        :+)\r\n\r\nlike i said elsewhere, thanks for making me feel at home...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-12 08:55:38'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: I'm _feeling_ like "typing like this"_all_the_time. Underscores and _quotes_  for
    the "win". :)
  created: '2009-03-12 18:18:05'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "It should be mentioned that Professor Jacqueline D. Lipton's treatise\r\n\r\n<cite>\"To
    (C) or Not to (C)?\r\nCopyright and Innovation in the Digital Typeface Industry\"</cite>\r\n\r\nwas
    revised and republished recently and is downloadable here\r\n\r\nhttp://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1311402"
  created: '2009-05-23 06:27:24'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Yaaa, but she still hasn't revised the fundamentally flawed view that:\r\n\r\n>
    This industry has recently digitized.\r\n\r\nLOL. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-05-23 12:36:01'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I guess it depends on your definition of \"recent,\" but I'm inclined to
    agree with you. Yet it appears that much of the other content is revised, and
    substantially improved. Certainly she has taken feedback seriously.\r\n\r\nIf
    you're going to take the time to read it all through, you should take the time
    to write her with feedback to improve the thing. As what looks to be the sole
    scholarly paper in this area, I think it's important that it be as well-informed
    as possible by knowledgeable folks. That's why I put time into it, at least.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-05-23 22:49:06'
- author:
    name: onemandub
  body: "Despite the fact that more than one of the contributors on this subject has
    criticised me on another, here are the facts;\r\n\r\nType designers akin to Nick
    Shinn & David Berlow didn't wake up one morning magically able to create phenomenal
    fonts for nothing. These guys studied this over years and different continents
    in order that WE end up with finely developed typefaces. Downloading gigabytes
    of foundries over at ISOHUNT or PIRATEBAY and ultimately not paying for anything
    is clearly unacceptable. Two large corporations here in Scotland have been reprimanded
    for using unlicensed typefaces while a well known art school now allows their
    students ONLY to use the typeface collection provided and paid for BY the school.
    If you want free fonts for non commercial use then go to DAFONT and check the
    fonts you download aren't simply renamed versions of existing work - i haven't
    been there for a while but that WAS the case several times previously.\r\n\r\nThe
    fact that both Shinn & Berlow's typefaces (entire foundries almost) are appearing
    on P2P networks (alongside many others) must be sickening for them and i would
    suggest that anyone who uses that system for acquiring their fonts think carefully
    in future - when their clients congratulate their typeface choices they should
    be ready to pay for them."
  created: '2009-05-24 10:06:12'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I have just been reading the new version of Prof. Lipton's essay, and it
    is hugely strengthened. I do appreciate that after I drew her attention to this
    thread, Prof. Lipton has been eager to learn more from those in the type community,
    and to deepen her discussion of the legal issues based on the new information.
    \r\n\r\nProf. Lipton has it seems has taken full advantage of Thomas's input--thank
    you Thomas!--with acknowledgments. The happy result is I think a very interesting
    essay.  \r\n\r\n  "
  created: '2009-05-24 15:45:11'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "It's not perfect, but it's a lot better.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-05-25 22:34:29'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Hello bb, Thomas, David - I'm coming in very late to this thread, sorry.\r\nThe
    initial question was:\r\n\"Is it illegal to download illegally uploaded fonts?
    And is it illegal to use them?\"\r\nBecause of my interest in readability and
    font-linking on the web, I've been following this topic very closely - to the
    extreme of actually reading court opinions like Napster, Grokster, etc...\r\nJust
    some obvious points - How can anyone know that a font was illegally uploaded until
    they download it and take a look at it? What if your intent is to download it,
    analyze it, and then, if it looks like it was uploaded in violation of the EULA,
    report the situation to the foundry so they can issue a DMCA take-down notice?
    That's gotta be kosher, right?\r\nThe whole idea of that being in some way \"illegal\"
    is, to me, preposterous.\r\n\r\nThe second part of the question is trickier and
    depends on what the font is then used for. I don't even want to touch that one.\r\nBut
    I would like to re-iterate a <a href=\"http://www.alistapart.com/comments/realfontsontheweb/P10/#20\">comment</a>
    I made on A List Apart in reaction to publisher Jeffrey Zeldman's interview with
    David Berlow:\r\n\"Font creation is both labor and knowledge intensive. And the
    pool of people who are really good at it is small. If ever there was an example
    of copyright protection acting \u2013 as the framers of the Constitution intended
    \u2013 to promote a useful art (in other words, to encourage font-makers and keep
    new fonts coming) this would be such an example.\"\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-26 04:46:02'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">It\u2019s not perfect, but it\u2019s a lot better.\r\n\r\nI'll set aside
    another pro bono publico day or two soon. But I can tell you from a brief scan,
    and due to my utter reluctance to ever print anything I don't have to, the Social
    Science Research Network Electronic Paper Collection is not. This is a document
    designed, formatted and published for print.\r\n\r\n>... this would be such an
    example.\r\n\r\nI appreciate your support on that part for sure. But I think it
    helps to reframe, for reconsideration at least, the issue from one of 'our' useful
    art, to the more generally useful art of document creation, a labor and knowledge
    intensive art, and a one whose desired rights to protection on the web includes
    typefaces, or is it fonts, I get confused now ;)\r\n\r\nAnd because of my interest
    in readability and font-linking on the web, a lot has changed since this thread
    started. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-26 16:50:21'
- author:
    name: Vinnie_Candie
    picture: 120500
  body: The remark on Andy Warhol and "What is Art" is the exact reason that there
    is a question as to this subject, I think what we have here is the "Artist" not
    realizing the chains that the change of this new distribution method breaks.  It
    is the artists responsibility to adapt to the new market.  Which at this time
    unfortunately is a sort of hip hop generation of "sampling" on piece of art and
    making it a new piece of art.  This is why I cling so tightly to the open source
    software and belief.  There will be a time, if you and I are not careful in the
    next decade we will find ourselves strictly behind cloud software where we lease
    our time on the software we are using and give it proceeds for it benefiting our
    product.  Free is the new business model and you should be able to get behind
    it and leverage it if you are worth your salt in whatever you do.  There is a
    correct way to go about "Licensing" products, but you would notice if you did
    not charge every person who "tries" to make a project work but only those that
    have made it work you will notice more people "sampling" your art or work, and
    the better they get at working with it.  What is art, if art is mimicking life,
    and life is mimicking art, we need to make room for art to mimic art, and except
    the reality that cd's were never worth $17.00 some bands many one hit wonders
    would have actually made money with I-tunes today, isn't it amazing that a software
    company not a music company, utilizing the market and the new means of distribution
    comes out with the next generation "Walkman"  and then corners the market on how
    to distribute this new "Product".  My main point is when people are standing there
    saying "give me, give me.... mine!!! Mine!!!"  Other people are standing there
    saying Hmmmm.... how can I make money on this??? Please use these words or this
    Idea freely as I am FULL OF IT....(dah dah dah dah dah) I will not and can not
    subscribe to a capitalist idea that pits neighbor vs neighbor, We are in a Global
    Market and most Americans are trying to make there fortune in the Court room.
    Wake up!!!
  created: '2010-08-10 00:21:45'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "\"Free is the new business model\"\r\n\r\nFree is not a business model. The
    part that \"monetizes\" the free, that's the business model. Whether it's paid
    advertising, or folks paying for something else, I don't know.\r\n\r\nFor fonts,
    the only convincing business model I've seen that's built on top of free in any
    sense is this: some companies or organizations will find it in their interest
    to pay people to develop fonts that will then be open source. I don't think this
    will be sufficiently large scale to be a very large amount of type design, compared
    to what happens today. So, if nobody is willing to pay for fonts, I expect most
    folks who currently design type will have to find something else to do.\r\n\r\nI
    agree with Richard that the protections of copyright are quite appropriate for
    fonts. However, I recognize that in today's world of easy data transfer, such
    protections are rather thin.\r\n\r\nBTW, don't assume that I think that US copyright
    laws are reasonable. I think that the length of copyright protection in the USA
    is not merely excessive but completely insane. Life of the author plus 70 years?
    For work for hire, 120 years from creation or 95 from first publication, whichever
    comes first? That's Goofy.\r\n\r\nSorry, couldn't resist the Disney reference.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-08-10 08:38:43'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Oy, much dredging of threads lately....\r\n\r\nTP>BTW, don't assume that
    I think that US copyright laws are reasonable.\r\n\r\nYou radical, you!\r\n\r\nTP>So,
    if nobody is willing to pay for fonts, I expect most folks\r\nTP>who currently
    design type will have to find something else to do.\r\n\r\nI've yet to meet a
    type designer who isn't talented beyond type design. I've yet to meet a type designer
    who isn't intelligent.\r\nPeople with talent and intelligence are going to find
    a way to roll with the punches.\r\n\r\nThe move to digital distribution requires
    an incredible leap of faith. There are so many questions unanswered. It's hard
    to see who profits besides Google and Amazon and Apple and the service providers.\r\nLately,
    I've been thinking about what initially drove the first Europeans to migrate to
    America. Most stayed put, so it couldn't have been *that* bad.\r\nWhat went through
    the minds of those who pioneered the American West? These people knew they were
    venturing into unknown, dangerous country. Death could await just as easily as
    a new life. What gave them the guts or the optimism to face that? Don't know.\r\nAnyway,
    in this case, the open prairie is coming to us - no need to travel!\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-11 00:54:05'
- author:
    name: towolf
  body: "I like Uli. Hope he\u2019s still around."
  created: '2010-08-12 23:25:38'
date: '2009-02-11 20:41:24'
node_type: forum
title: Use of illegally uploaded fonts

---
