---
author:
  name: James Deux
body: "I have only skimmed the most meager minutia of arguments pertaining to Type
  legality battles and battles over freeware, free software, pirating... things such
  as these.\r\n\r\nWhat has consistently remained in the back of my head, despite
  the validity of arguments on both ends is that Graphic Design has never appeared
  to me as a cheap business. I'm not talking about consumer end; I'm talking about
  designer end. The purchase of software, work-horse computers, typography, proper
  color calibration, PANTONE, printing mockups... these things cost money. A business,
  right? \r\n\r\nA business must generate revenue to get things done, period. So really
  the point of this conversation isn't \"Graphic Design is tough on the professionals!\"
  because they have consistent means to accommodate costs. Instead I ask fellow designers
  and typographers alike what their thoughts are on the \"friendliness\"\u2014to pick
  a word\u2014of graphic design towards not-for-profit amateurs. \r\n\r\nI design
  regularly for my University because student groups need someone to do that. It's
  a fun and exciting responsibility. On my end I get no money, and even if I did,
  it'd be mere stipends. My resources are largely former presents or things I've collected
  over the years\u2014legitimately or not. On that note: I have come into the possession
  of fonts that I did not rightly buy. Did I take these off the internet? No. Good
  ole' fashion ties to the industry has allowed me some lush typefaces.\r\n\r\nIn
  retrospect, I am saddened. I do feel bad that I use someone else's art without the
  proper contribution towards their business. But if I paid for every typeface I own
  that's licensed I'd have spent well over 4,000 dollars on typography alone.  Yet
  if I didn't have these typefaces, I'd be stunted. My designs would more or less
  utilize the same Minion-Helvetica-Lucida fonts over and over and the variety I would
  have among my designs would be poor. Does: \"I'm gonna have bad art!\" justify the
  lack of monetary compensation on my end?  Not really. But it's a fair argument from
  where I'm standing.\r\n\r\nBecause really, how <b>do</b> you operate in this biz,
  as an amateur, without that constant flow of money? Especially during the global
  economic crisis? What is the point of entering into a creative field if your tools
  and instruments are limited from the start?\r\n\r\nI don't think you can: not at
  the prices foundries charge. So I'm just entirely skeptical. As someone in the social
  sciences, we see that some activities are for \"High Society\" and others for everyone
  else. Just as a violinist in the inner city will have access to different resources
  and that fact will show, so too will a designer of any field with less money be
  limited in the kinds of production that they can create. I think this stratification
  of artists among classes is both beautiful and deadly. Beautiful because it diversifies
  the art and deadly because the only reason we have diverse art is because someone
  had to go an alternate route with their creativity. And not necessarily because
  they chose to. \r\n\r\nBut I am not posing this to make an argument, only see what
  others think and to express my own doubts about it all. "
comments:
- author:
    name: nepenthe
    picture: 109675
  body: "You say: Does: \u201CI\u2019m gonna have bad art!\u201D justify the lack
    of monetary compensation on my end? Not really. But it\u2019s a fair argument
    from where I\u2019m standing.\r\n\r\nThis seems to be a common notion, that gets
    tossed around a lot: \"But if I pay for everything I 'need' to do graphic design,
    then I wouldn't be able to do graphic design\". This is not an argument, but merely
    an assertion of your belief in your entitlement. The question to ask, then, is
    what is your argument for why you are entitled to be a graphic designer if you
    can't afford the tools to be one? \r\n\r\nLike most things pertaining to digital
    data, there is this sense of entitlement that people have. \"The only reason why
    we charge money for physical products\", this reasoning might go, \"is because
    there's only so much to go around. But bandwidth is the only limit to the distribution
    of digital products. So all are entitled to them. If you make money off them,
    then you should pay for them, but otherwise they should be free\". This is like
    telling font designers, \"If you want to make things you know you're going to
    get paid for, then pick another job.\" While there is some truth in this\u2014theft
    is so widespread with regard to digital products\u2014it is not an ethical justification
    of why it is good to steal. The fact of the other side of the fence is that digital
    products, while they are cheap to distribute and replicate, still take a lot of
    time, thought, and resources to produce. So their designers are still entitled
    to get paid.\r\n\r\nI think the other part of the amateur's argument might go
    something like this: \"Sure the type designer put <em>time</em> into her products.
    But so do I put time into my products, the designs I make with them. And I am
    not getting paid for my designs with money. Doesn't the time I invest compensate
    somehow for the software I'm using?\" This reasoning seems fine until one realizes
    that the thief here is volunteering to do the work for free, while the type designer
    never volunteered her services. So your contribution of time is irrelevant to
    your right to use the font designer's products. Once again, the argument returns
    to an unjustified presupposition of entitlement. \r\n\r\nSo my initial question
    remains: why do you believe you are entitled to be a designer if being a designer
    means stealing from others?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-13 04:27:17'
- author:
    name: James Deux
  body: "\"So my initial question remains: why do you believe you are entitled to
    be a designer if being a designer means stealing from others?\r\n\r\nThat begs
    another question: am I entitled to the ability to make art? And if the answer
    is yes: What happens if I am forced with art \"half-assed\" (I can think of no
    better word).\r\n\r\nYou <i>can</i> do Design with pen and paper, compass and
    grid still but that's a relatively archaic way of doing the art (especially for
    one that benefits digital and print space so much). My question then becomes:
    If I can have it, why can't I have it all, because why would I want only half
    of something so beautiful and powerful?\r\n\r\nI'm not saying I'm entitled to
    any physical product. But my original argument is that because Design is such
    a costly field, there are many detracted. This argument can be applied to athletics
    and music as well, drama and even academia suffers. We will not delve into those
    topics but it is a relevant point.\r\n\r\nStill, perhaps my original post was
    not as focused as i had hoped. I am analyzing Graphic Design as a field for the
    few. This is not accessible like say drawing or painting. I'm saying only those
    with money and/or resources will be able to partake in it. I think this is both
    unfortunate and problematic.  \r\n\r\nAnd while I do not believe that anyone can
    say they are entitled to a shiny new Macintosh or a freshly designed typeface,
    when these people are denied the art and the ability to make it the better question,
    then, becomes: Why are we denying them? Are they not good enough? Will we let
    money truly stop people from creating? "
  created: '2009-02-13 04:51:35'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: This is just trolling dressed up with academic verbiage. Either that or Yale
    no longer teaches critical thinking and someone has been reading too much Chomsky.
  created: '2009-02-13 05:20:06'
- author:
    name: James Deux
  body: "\"This is just trolling dressed up with academic verbiage\"\r\n\r\nIn other
    words: Persuasive writing. \r\n\r\nI didn't imagine, never would have imagined
    in 10 millions years that of all places the conversation would devolve so quickly
    <i>here</i>. And by a long-standing member no doubt. \r\n\r\nAnd I'm not a Yalie;
    I still have my soul. They didn't want it."
  created: '2009-02-13 05:26:08'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "I am sorry. I must have misunderstood your proposition. So, what does a violinist
    do if he can not afford a Stradivarius? What does a sculptor do if they cannot
    afford the block of marble and the chisels? What does a primadona do if she cannot
    afford to hire the Carnegie Hall or the Royal Albert Hall?\r\n\r\nNot persuasive,
    just plain silly."
  created: '2009-02-13 05:54:11'
- author:
    name: James Deux
  body: "Those are unfair examples.\r\n\r\nNo one can afford a Stradivarious: they
    are leased. Marble is very expensive for the average sculptor. And you don't afford
    Carnegie Hall or Sydney or anyway: they take you. You afford <i>them</i>.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-13 05:56:57'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: There you go. Stick with Helvetica or Arial.
  created: '2009-02-13 06:00:30'
- author:
    name: James Deux
  body: '...and your point?'
  created: '2009-02-13 06:09:35'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Read your own post:\r\n\r\n<em>My designs would more or less utilize the
    same Minion-Helvetica-Lucida fonts</em>\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-13 06:12:50'
- author:
    name: James Deux
  body: "Exactly.\r\n\r\nThat's the problem."
  created: '2009-02-13 13:32:42'
- author:
    name: Artur Schmal
    picture: 110750
  body: "<cite>But my original argument is that because Design is such a costly field,
    there are many detracted.</cite>\r\n\r\nCostly is very relative. Sure, if you're
    work in the field of graphic design is limited to occasional voluntary work, purchasing
    fonts and software is relatively costly. But if your intention is to run a serious
    business and make a living out of it, I think graphic design is actually one of
    the less costly fields to be in."
  created: '2009-02-13 14:24:34'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>In other words: Persuasive writing.</cite>\r\n\r\nNo, this isn\u2019t
    persuasive writing, this is just you pushing buttons. Every paragraph you wrote
    contains multiple arguments that can and have been refuted on Typophile over and
    over\u2014some of them in threads that are currently active. Tossing in some doggerel
    about classism doesn\u2019t make it any less obvious that you\u2019re just looking
    for a few billy goats to fight."
  created: '2009-02-13 15:29:50'
- author:
    name: James Deux
  body: "If someone has come into this Thread looking for a fight: It's you, because
    you've announced that desire with your attitude. So have fun turning the other
    cheek. I know I will.\r\n\r\n\r\nArtur:\r\n <i> But if your intention is to run
    a serious business and make a living out of it, I think graphic design is actually
    one of the less costly fields to be in.</i>\r\n\r\nI am very intrigued by this.
    Please elaborate. "
  created: '2009-02-13 15:58:41'
- author:
    name: nepenthe
    picture: 109675
  body: "My position with regard to art is that it is, by definition, that activity
    whereby the objective or aim is to determine how to produce some particular product.
    This is techne in the Aristotelian sense, a sense that does make the modern distinction
    between high and low art. So art is not simply the product, but also the activity
    of determining the means of producing your imagined product. The object cannot
    be properly understood apart from its production. In this sense, you can still
    produce art without having access to every tool you wish you could have. Working
    within a set of constraints is usually a good thing, as it makes one deliberate
    about one's means of production. If you're really concerned with creating original
    works of art, you might consider learning about type and lettering, and developing
    styles which are unique to your vision. There are also many interesting ways to
    explore using common type in unusual ways, ways that have not been tried before.\r\n\r\nArthur
    makes a good point. Design and its tools seem expensive to non-commercial designers
    because they are part of an economic system. Clients pay designers to help their
    products sell (and other similar things) and consequently this generates a livelihood
    for a lot of people. Were this not the case, there would not exist the \"fresh
    new faces\" that the kids are pining for these days. But artists, especially nowadays,
    aim to struggle against this \"capitalist hegemony\". So it makes wanting to use
    products that are part of this system seem strange, unless you are using them
    ironically. But without knowing what your artistic aims are, it's difficult to
    formulate the appropriate response."
  created: '2009-02-13 16:10:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "If your conscience bothers you, do the right thing. Don't try to justify
    bad behavior.\r\n\r\nYou may be interested in the Constructivist Program, which
    is reproduced in <em>Looking Closer 3: Classic Writings on Graphic Design.</em>
    WAR ON ART!\r\n\r\nThe soviets solved the problem of how to make graphic tools
    available to everyone by making them available to no-one; type design stagnated
    during the Communist era.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-13 16:18:14'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Here's an ethics question about a beginning designer that I've wondered about:\r\n\r\nDesigner
    Joe is hired by Acme in January to create an identity and logo. He settles on
    Whitney, pitches it, and Acme agrees. He licenses Whitney from H&FJ, and bills
    that cost to Acme. (This \"charging to the client as cost of doing design business\"
    is a common recommendation on Typophile in threads like these.)\r\n\r\nIn March,
    Beta Corp. hires Joe for logo work. Again, Whitney fits the bill perfectly. \r\n\r\nDoes
    Joe\r\na) simply use Whitney now that it is part of his toolkit? (in which case
    Acme has subsidized Beta's design work in effect)\r\nb) invoice Beta for half
    the cost of Whitney and forward that money to Acme as a refund?\r\nc) invoice
    Beta for the full cost of Whitney just as Acme had to pay, and pocket that money
    as acknowledgement of his assets?\r\nd) invoice Beta for the full cost of Whitney
    just as Acme had to pay, and send it as a bonus to H&FJ?"
  created: '2009-02-13 16:43:01'
- author:
    name: bemerx25
    picture: 112539
  body: Good question Craig - is the font purchased for a job of client A okay to
    use for a job for client B? I think your choice a is okay - Acme helped Joe's
    toolkit as a way of accomplishing the task at hand. What Joe does with the font
    after that is not their concern unless the contract calls for Joe to use the font
    for that particular job and then hand over that jobs assets back to Acme (in which
    case Acme is the license owner of that font). But I think a lot depends on the
    job, the contract specifications and the understanding of both parties.
  created: '2009-02-13 17:03:58'
- author:
    name: nepenthe
    picture: 109675
  body: Isn't the font under your license in that case (a)? The company pays you,
    then you pay the type foundry with what is now your money, and you are licensed
    to use the font according to the EULA. If one had to re-license fonts for every
    job, that would be pretty weird. Although, type foundries would probably appreciate
    (d), and designers would like (c). (b) is wacky.
  created: '2009-02-13 17:06:45'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "<cite>If one had to re-license fonts for every job, that would be pretty
    weird.</cite>\r\n\r\nBut under the scenario above, Acme has the license, not Joe
    (unless Joe delivers just final output with outlines, and no font files whatsoever). "
  created: '2009-02-13 17:43:15'
- author:
    name: bemerx25
    picture: 112539
  body: 're: the relicensing - this only makes sense if Joe is licensing the fonts
    specifically for the company that is using his services - i.e. Acme tells Joe
    to buy the font but the font and other resources, by contract, are Acme''s. So
    in this case Joe''s font purchase/licensing is actually on behalf of Acme and
    not for "Joe and his current job".'
  created: '2009-02-13 18:02:38'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "It's an age old debate. I'm sure the monks were rightfully pissed when Gutenberg
    came along and took a bite out of their bible business.\r\n\r\nThe more logo contests
    sites, billion free font sites, the more I'm less frustrated by them and more
    frustrated by clients that think it's a good buy.\r\n\r\nI recently had a colleague
    bring up CrowdSpring as a way to get graphic design produced. It's a waste of
    money, IMHO:\r\n\r\nhttp://mnteractive.com/archive/crowdspring-for-design-crappy-roi\r\n\r\nAs
    for your particular situation, you'll either get wise and grow out of it and become
    a professional designer, or you'll go on and do something else with your life.\r\n\r\nAre
    you causing untold damage to universal karma by making some flyers for classmates
    via illicit fonts? Probably not. It's not right, but likely won't be the end of
    times either."
  created: '2009-02-13 18:25:03'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Also, few summary points:\r\n\r\n1) There are GOOD free typefaces out there.
    The quantity of typefaces in your toolbox is less of an issue than the quality
    of the few you have.\r\n\r\n2) There are LOADS of really great typefaces that
    don't cost an arm an a leg. Careful shopping can easily find you with high-end
    faces in the $20 - $50 range.\r\n\r\n3) If all you are doing is picking from a
    font menu of 200 typefaces installed on your system, then you're not really a
    graphic designer anyways. You're more of a decorator/desktop publisher.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-13 18:27:08'
- author:
    name: Artur Schmal
    picture: 110750
  body: "<cite>But under the scenario above, Acme has the license, not Joe (unless
    Joe delivers just final output with outlines, and no font files whatsoever).</cite>\r\n\r\nWhy
    would Acme hold the license? It is Joe who purchased the fonts on his name and
    hence holds the license.\r\nSurely he bills Acme for the costs of it, but Acme
    wouldn't also be holding part of his InDesign or Mac OSX license which surely
    is integrated in his hourly rate."
  created: '2009-02-13 18:36:24'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "If Acme is using the font for their identity, surely they need to be in possession
    of the font files. They also need a license. If Joe bills for two licenses, one
    for ongoing use by him and one for ongoing use by Acme, then there's no problem.
    \r\n\r\nIf Joe just designed a logo, and never sends the font files to Acme, there's
    no issue: Joe holds the license. "
  created: '2009-02-13 19:28:38'
- author:
    name: James Deux
  body: "I agree with bemerx. A client can help your company to grow. Obviously, this
    growth can benefit all your future clients. By being a client, you're participating
    in the future of the company/agency/firm/etc. working with you. \r\n\r\nFinally:\r\n\r\n<i>3)
    If all you are doing is picking from a font menu of 200 typefaces installed on
    your system, then you\u2019re not really a graphic designer anyways. You\u2019re
    more of a decorator/desktop publisher.</i>\r\n\r\nThis is intriguing. I err more
    on the side of design but there are definitely moments when my choices become
    more systematic than exploratory, as I believe design should be.\r\n\r\nHow would
    you define the difference utilizing the thought you had when you first made your
    comment? "
  created: '2009-02-14 03:17:32'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "James, I think that sometimes limitations can work in a designer's favor.
    For example, if all you have are two or three typefaces that are legimate, you
    should be able to come up with a good design solution using those typefaces --
    or just one or two of them.\r\n\r\nAnd Nick is right: <strong>If your conscience
    bothers you, do the right thing. Don\u2019t try to justify bad behavior.</strong>\r\n\r\nPeople
    who want something really badly go after what they want, and they do it the right
    way, too."
  created: '2009-02-14 06:18:43'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: 'If you''re non-profit, you might want to explore an installation of CorelDraw,
    which I believe allows non-profits to purchase it at academic prices; true, it''s
    only Bitstream fonts you get with it, but you get a ton of them, and they will
    expand your possibilities. '
  created: '2009-02-14 14:34:34'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: "Computers, design software, and digital fonts have only been necessary tools
    for the graphic designer for 25 years. That's long enough to learn a new skill
    set, but not long enough for a new business model to gain universal acceptance.\r\nBefore
    the Linotype and Monotype automated typesetting in the 1880s, there was no such
    profession as graphic design (W.A. Dwiggins coined the term in 1922). Typesetting
    was a skilled craft, and the apprenticeship required you to learn not just the
    mechanics of the job, but the aesthetics too. \r\nWith automation, all that workers
    needed to know was the mechanics. They didn't need to know the aesthetics, and
    that meant you could pay them less. Still, somebody had to make decisions about
    fonts and margins and so forth, and thus was born the profession of graphic design.
    \r\nThe graphic designer was typically a college graduate, and earned more than
    a Linotype operator, but you didn't need a lot of them. One graphic designer could
    keep a whole roomful of Linotype operators busy.\r\nGraphic designers wrote specs
    and drew layouts, tracing headlines from the specimen books printed by type shops.
    Their tools were cheap: rulers, pencils, pens, razor blades, and glue. They didn't
    need to own the machines or the fonts because someone else was setting the type.
    And charging plenty of money for it, because they had to pay for all those workers,
    fonts, and machines. \r\nThis model endured for 100 years, until the Macintosh
    arrived. Designers loved the Mac, because if they changed their minds (we do that
    sometimes) and decided to use Caledonia instead of Century, they didn't have to
    wait two or three days and pay the typesetter to set the whole job all over again.
    \r\nClients liked it too, because they realized they could cut the typesetter
    out of the process entirely, and thousands of type shops went out of business
    in the early 1990s.\r\nIt was bass-ackwards automation--taking the grunt work
    away from low-paid production workers and giving it to MFAs from RISD--but on
    paper, it looked like the clients were getting the typesetting for free. \r\nGenerations
    of designers had endured the frustration of having to sketch out ideas and hand
    them over to be executed by people who didn't quite get it. They were so excited
    to be able to control the process <em>directly</em>, many didn't notice they were
    absorbing the typesetter's overhead without building it into their pricing model.
    \r\nWhich is why you find yourself in a dilemma, James. And a recession isn't
    the time to start raising your prices. But your point is a good one, and it goes
    far beyond the transaction between the producers and users of digital fonts. It's
    part of the new economics of intellectual property that are undoing newspaper
    and book publishers, and will undo the producers of design software and fonts
    if they don't change the big-ticket, business-to-business model that's hanging
    around from pre-Internet days. I hope you'll continue to press your argument with
    colleagues, clients, and the companies you buy your tools from. "
  created: '2009-02-14 23:29:43'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>But if I paid for every typeface I own that\u2019s licensed I\u2019d
    have spent well over 4,000 dollars on typography alone. Yet if I didn\u2019t have
    these typefaces, I\u2019d be stunted.</cite>\r\n\r\nI don't make my money designing
    things. I make my money setting type, so I have little financial interest in the
    sale of type.\r\n\r\nThat said, try this on. Perhaps Yale students have heard
    of Richard Eckersley. Now I worked with Richard from about 1985 until his death.
    From 1985 to the early 1990s, he used Galliard or Baskerville for 90 percent of
    the work he did. Occasional forays with other fonts, which he usually allowed
    didn't work for him. When Minion came along, he used that, getting to know it.
    Getting to know it included purchasing the Multiple Masters version, and making
    custom instances. When Minion wasn't right, Baskerville still was. No more Galliard.
    In the last several years of his life, he used Trinite, and when it wasn't right,
    he used Baskerville, and occasionally Minion at about 95% of Normal on the width
    axis.\r\n\r\nHow about Rich Hendel, who was the Design & Production manager at
    Yale University Press? At any given time, Rich uses about four text faces, and
    an equal number of display faces. Every few years, he'll drop one and add another.\r\n\r\nBoth
    these men understood how to use type. Now it is possible that your understanding
    of typography is so advanced that you can determine how to use a font with minimal
    use. If so, you'll soon become terribly famous, paparazzi snapping your every
    move, investigative journalists prying into all corners of you life, the usual
    problems of fame. But then, all those font thefts will tarnish your image.\r\n\r\nOr
    perhaps you're not more advanced than Hendel & Eckersley?\r\n\r\nCharles Ellertson"
  created: '2009-02-15 03:45:10'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "I'm a bit weary of this now: the whole fallacy is in this statement:\r\n\r\n<em>if
    I paid for every typeface I own</em>\r\n\r\nYou do not own them, mate, you stole
    them."
  created: '2009-02-15 04:34:10'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Mojo, spot on again.\r\n\r\nThere are a couple of threads similar to this
    that are fiercely evolving at present.\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/53444\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/54673\r\n\r\nThe
    debate however tends to stagnate around the same positions. Very few people have
    dared to suggest that actually\r\n\r\n'It's part of the new economics of intellectual
    property that are undoing newspaper and book publishers, and will undo the producers
    of design software and fonts if they don\u2019t change the big-ticket, business-to-business
    model that\u2019s hanging around from pre-Internet days.'\r\n\r\nThis statement
    will upset a huge majority here, but really there is a lot of truth in it.\r\n\r\n\u2014\r\n\r\ncharles_e\r\n\r\n'Now
    it is possible that your understanding of typography is so advanced that you can
    determine how to use a font with minimal use.'\r\n\r\nIf by 'use' you mean, flawless
    (conservative), typesetting, then no probably not. But if by 'use' you mean make
    instinctive and creative choices that demonstrate your understanding of semiotics
    and the value of pluralism then yes, one can 'use' type with minimal effort and
    to great effect.\r\n\r\n\u2014\r\n\r\nRicardo \r\n\r\nIt is a good exercise to
    use a small number of typefaces to solve a problem. Technically, optically, this
    will be a very valuable but ultimately it may fail because it also fails to take
    into account semiotics and thus the designer loses an invaluable opportunity to
    communicate something above and beyond the written element. A good designer will
    demonstrate that it is possible to forge a new language with basic elements, but
    this is a finite situation.\r\n\r\n\u2014\r\n\r\nFinally, James Deux\r\n\r\n\r\nI
    have some sympathy for the origin of your thread. I think the economic model is
    out of date and penalises the wrong people. Like any 'rule', being outdated usually
    results in some kind of review. The law surrounding intellectual property may
    have to catch up with the values of the masses, whether the few like it or not.
    I think typography is suffering a backlash from the film and music industry, which
    really juiced the population and is now being pirated left, right and centre.
    We have passed through a period where intellectual property was overpriced, now
    people are redistributing it, illegally or otherwise.\r\n\r\nHaving said all of
    the above, you entered a vipers pit to steal an egg \u2013 expect people to react
    abruptly. If you are intent on 'your right to make art', whatever that means,
    make your own lettering/type. Isn't that quite obvious?"
  created: '2009-02-15 12:51:35'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>We have passed through a period where intellectual property was overpriced,
    now people are redistributing it, illegally or otherwise.</cite> \r\n\r\nAh, yes,
    the \"I'm special\" mentality. Another expression of that one was \"I deserve
    everything that's available, so what if I get in a lot of debt?\""
  created: '2009-02-15 14:30:11'
- author:
    name: Artur Schmal
    picture: 110750
  body: "<cite>I think the economic model is out of date and penalises the wrong people.</cite>\r\n\r\nCould
    you please tell me why you think that people paying for my fonts is out of date
    and who I am penalizing by selling my fonts?"
  created: '2009-02-15 15:24:28'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "charles_e\r\n\r\nI don't understand \u2013 the quoted text and your response
    don't match up.\r\n\r\n\u2014\r\n\r\nArtur Schmal\r\n\r\nI don't think paying
    for fonts is out of date, I think paying too much for fonts is. By overpricing
    fonts (I'm not suggesting you do this) one does exclude a number of people who
    cannot afford them. I'm pointing out what many others have \u2013 that people
    may buy more fonts if they were cheaper.\r\n\r\nI just noticed your web address
    is workforthemasses.com \r\nMaybe I am wrong but does that not imply a degree
    of socialism?"
  created: '2009-02-15 16:44:22'
- author:
    name: buddhaboy
    picture: 112340
  body: "James - I started out 10 years ago, with a copy of CorelDraw - period...
    Enough work and time spend in there, with those packaged fonts, allowed me to
    gain enough clients to eventually buy illustrator, indesign etc, and then to start
    buying a few quality workhorse fonts, and now I pay the mortgage and make a comfortable
    living, and I own no more than 30 or so commercial fonts (which only cover several
    typefaces).\r\n\r\nNo SME sized customer is going to spot the difference between
    a bitstream/Corel font and one costing very much more - and if you are any good,
    you will lay the type out, and create designs that are interesting enough to mask
    your humble foundations.\r\n\r\nI have to agree with paragraph - I'm sure if Dominic
    Miller sat down in my living room with my \xA3100 student guitar he would produce
    some magic. Likewise, you don't need to own half of the HFJ library to produce
    good work. Sure, it might be the finishing touch to the kinds of projects that
    you would be charging thousands of quid for, but then you aren't charging that
    much are you?\r\n\r\nI accept that students will run hookey copies of CS4 and
    have a disk full of pirated fonts - and honestly, I have no issue with that -
    it is impossible to prevent, and it exposes students to the tools of the trade,
    which is a benefit to everyone. But, don't be tempted to go into business with
    those same stolen goods... would you really want people making money from something
    you might have spent weeks, months or even years refining?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-15 18:35:07'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "1985\r\n\r\nJust a a small note first: a font is a lot more than \"intellectual\"
    property. Have you ever taken the time to put one together? Just for practice,
    start with someone else's design. Draw the characters. Add metrics. Add kerning.
    Add OT features. These are all \"manufacturing\" operations, but take a fair amount
    of time and effort.\r\n\r\nAs to not understanding the comment, are you only an
    apologist, or able to think?  \r\n\r\nGenerally, price is set by a seller and
    a buyer agreeing to terms. In the font world we have Trinit\xE9, available only
    as a series of families, with the lowest price around 900 Euros. We also have
    a host of single-family fonts at 19.95 from the likes of MyFonts, etc. Big difference.
    Why is that? Why does anyone buy Trinit\xE9? Ensched\xE9's answer is, if you don't
    want it bad enough to pay the price, just don't buy it. \r\n\r\nThe exception
    to the purchase model is when someone wants something they can't afford so badly
    they seal it. Some of these thieves feel the need to justify their actions --
    the arguments are diverse, but essentially boil down to the claim they are special,
    what they want is due to them. You can construct wonderful, fanciful justifications
    about why you are due something, but we rarely seen anyone respond, \"By golly,
    you're right. Just take it.\"\r\n\r\nOf course, I'm only a tradesman, maybe I'm
    wrong. Perhaps you'd care to explain the subtleties to me."
  created: '2009-02-15 18:47:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...will undo the producers of design software and fonts if they don\u2019t
    change the big-ticket, business-to-business model that\u2019s hanging around from
    pre-Internet days.</em>\r\n\r\nThe Internet is fertile ground for new marketing
    models, but that doesn't mean there is no place for traditional methods.\r\n\r\nThe
    premium-priced business-to-business model is flourishing, because fonts are in
    large part professional tools, not consumer products like music and books. The
    Internet has stimulated the B2B market, because it is more accessible online than
    via direct mail and trade print advertising. In fact, the e-commerce font marketplace
    has created the indie-foundry industry.\r\n\r\nBut as part of this e-commerce
    phenomenon, there is also a prosumer market, and a consumer market for fonts.
    The lines are blurred, and will remain so, as this is an industry that doesn't
    do market research, just keeps pumping out product.\r\n\r\nThe different tranches
    respond differently to pricing, no doubt, but there is also some overlap. For
    instance, the same font may on one occasion be licensed singly by a non-professional,
    and on another as part of a multi-user family package by a corporation. Foundries
    may sell a typeface in different versions at different prices, and with different
    licencing permissions. For instance:\r\n\r\n<ol> <li>Freemium</li> <li>Non-commercial
    licence</li> <li>Commercial licence</li><li>Web-installable licence</li><li>Standard
    encoding, no features</li><li>Full featured</li></ol> \r\n\r\nAlready, the options
    available at MyFonts and FontShop can be bewildering, but there is still plenty
    of room for product proliferation in the font business, as font resellers and
    foundries become more sophisticated (remember, font e-commerce is less than 10
    years old--Makambo was launched in March, 1999).\r\n\r\nUltimately, the greater
    the number of SKUs (stock-keeping units), the harder and costlier it is for companies
    to sell, plan, track, manufacture and deliver those units. But being digital helps.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-15 21:03:10'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "charles_e\r\n\r\nThanks for taking the time to respond. \r\n\r\nI didn't
    understand your initial response because it didn't make sense, not because I can't
    think.\r\nIn answer to your question, yes I am designing a font \u2013 it's without
    doubt the hardest and most prolonged project I have worked on. I have no intention
    of selling it, it's really for my own learning. I hope that reduces your animosity
    toward me somewhat. Either way, you might have let me respond before patronising
    me.\r\n\r\nAs for being an apologist, my intial response to James ought to have
    clarified that for you. I expressed a degree of sympathy, which is quite different
    to being an outright apologist. I also pointed out that he should expect a rebuke.\r\n\r\nPeople
    protest high prices all the time, it is actually quite normal, and it is not because
    they are thieves.\r\n\r\nI look forward to your next post."
  created: '2009-02-15 22:04:01'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>People protest high prices all the time, it is actually quite normal,
    and it is not because they are thieves.</cite>\r\n\r\nIndeed they do. Just today
    I protested a 20% increase in the price of cat food. The expression of that protest
    was to buy the old brand, but also to make note of the the ingredients of a different
    brand, and I'll check that brand out on the web. Way down on the list of options
    was boosting the old brand -- even lower down than making the cat food myself
    (rice, chicken, etc.).\r\n\r\nI once took a design class from Rich Heldel, and
    one of the assignments was a magazine add. I did prowl the type books, finally
    settling for something less that I wanted. After the class, I mentioned that I'd
    found a perfect font for the display -- Lutetia open. \"Can you get it?\" he asked.
    \"No,\" I said. He replied, \"Then it isn't perfect, is it?\"\r\n\r\nNot being
    able to get a font can result from more than one reason, but the lesson is the
    same, press on."
  created: '2009-02-15 22:48:23'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "There are other fonts out there that do a good job. I am not addressing all
    of the above, one thing you can do; you can use corel that has a tone of good
    BT fonts, from the 1990s. They are pretty good (some will say bahhhh!) and you
    can buy that for 99 bucks or even less if you get it 2nd hand.\r\nFor the amateur,
    this is an oasis of fonts. Sometimes, people want scripts, then, you pull the
    four or five you have and that is what you can use. Not everybody can buy Gotham.
    Not that it wouldn't be good to have, just that the customers want it cheap!!\r\n\r\nHold
    tite for the ride ahead."
  created: '2009-02-16 01:37:02'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: 'AGL, this is off topic (in this case it might not be a bad thing, though):
    is that the monolith on the moon, and the ride ahead is what I think it is?'
  created: '2009-02-16 04:52:28'
- author:
    name: James Deux
  body: "I want to thank you all again for your responses. Despite a shaky start,
    this really became enlightening and interesting fast. I'll address some points
    here:\r\n\r\nThank you everyone for the CorelDraw suggestions. Though I'm not
    quite so sure: Why are Bitmap fonts worth warning against?\r\n\r\ncharles_e\r\n\"<i>How
    about Rich Hendel, who was the Design & Production manager at Yale University
    Press? At any given time, Rich uses about four text faces, and an equal number
    of display faces. Every few years, he\u2019ll drop one and add another.</i>\u02C6\"\r\n\r\nThe
    obvious solution, no? The ascetic artist. But that seems to be unpopular. Actually,
    art seems to have been mired in consumerism as well. \"More, more more!\" I agree:
    Do it with four, with five, six at most! (And a nice Wingdings font to boot).
    But I've read some online opinions that said \"Must haves\" number somewhere up
    into the 20s and 30s. \r\n\r\nparagraph\r\n<i>You do not own them, mate, you stole
    them.</i>\r\n\r\nIf ownership is denoted by legal documentation, there are a lot
    of movie and music owners out there who have a lot of \"magical\" property floating
    around in their archives that isn't actually there's.\r\n\r\nWhen I say ownership
    I mean:\r\n-In my possession and/or (where applicable)\r\n-Can be utilized by
    me at my will\r\n\r\nPublishingMojo\r\n<i>\u2019It\u2019s part of the new economics
    of intellectual property that are undoing newspaper and book publishers, and will
    undo the producers of design software and fonts if they don\u2019t change the
    big-ticket, business-to-business model that\u2019s hanging around from pre-Internet
    days.\u2019</i>\r\n\r\nVery insightful and I'm glad you said it and not I. I think
    it's definitely something to consider. It isn't that I mind paying 600 for the
    Gotham Family. I can assure you, <i>that</i> that will be put to good use! It's
    the others. 200 for a family of glyphs or 75 for that Didot Outline. I may have
    that up my sleeve for a single project and then what good is it? It'll became
    camp if it's overused. \r\n\r\nI like to believe that I'm just as equally an artist
    as I am a designer but if I develop a style I don't want it to be because I'm
    hanging around the same techniques over and over again. In art that's normal but
    in design that a nail in the coffin. (At least it SEEMS like that).\r\n\r\n1985\r\n<i>We
    have passed through a period where intellectual property was overpriced, now people
    are redistributing it, illegally or otherwise.</i>\r\n\r\nAgain, dually noted
    and you have made a good contribution to the discussion. What I will say, however,
    is that calling typography \"intellectual property\" falls into iffy territory.\r\n\r\nI'd
    actually be eager (though not here) to have a discussion on what exactly <i>is</i>
    intellectual property because most things on the internet were produced with cold,
    hard work and effort. Even a philosopher's manifest has undergone edit after edit
    after edit. \r\n\r\nbuddhaboy\r\n<i> But, don\u2019t be tempted to go into business
    with those same stolen goods... would you really want people making money from
    something you might have spent weeks, months or even years refining?</i>\r\n\r\nNo,
    and again I acknowledge a good point on your behalf.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-16 14:43:23'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: 'RE: CorelDraw-- The Bitstream fonts which come with it are plentiful, but
    definitely 1990s vintage. There are some very good fonts, and some pretty lame
    ones. That''s the big proviso which all of the CD suggestions are coming with.
    Having said that, it is a cheap way of boosting your font library significantly,
    especially compared to buying licenses for a number of the fonts included with
    CorelDraw as part of the licensed package.'
  created: '2009-02-16 14:53:58'
- author:
    name: James Deux
  body: Vintage from a technological standpoint or from a design standpoint?
  created: '2009-02-16 15:31:24'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: "Technological. Design-wise, they really do span a wide range of styles. They
    aren't OpenType with all the alternate styles and bells and whistles. However,
    there are occasional extended character fonts which have the various alternates
    available.\r\n[[http://www.unleash.com/articles/fonts/coreldrawx3fontlist.asp|CorelDrawX3
    font list]]"
  created: '2009-02-16 15:49:39'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I\u2019d actually be eager (though not here) to have a discussion on what
    exactly is intellectual property\"\r\n\r\nThe philosophical discussion could be
    long and interesting, but it's a pretty short legal discussion. IP are ideas/designs
    that someone has a legal right to via registration/copyright/TM/etc."
  created: '2009-02-16 16:00:43'
- author:
    name: BeauW
    picture: 116201
  body: "The way I look at it-\r\n\r\nthere are as many free and reasonable priced
    fonts as you could ever possibly need for anything short of setting extended text.
    Unless you are going to make money from the project you are doing, there is no
    need to pay for a font. You may need to do some extra work, kerning and such by
    hand, even tweaking outlines, but any project can be realized without piracy as
    long as you are not being lazy.\r\n\r\nI think it's a good thing that not everyone
    can choose to use Fedra, so that it won't be worn out by the time I come up with
    a project that justifies it's purchase. Using a good font is like using goldleaf
    in a design. Weigh the value before you use it. If the good font is necessary-
    then pay for it.\r\n\r\n   Now, the moral question is \"how can I justify paying
    $300 for something that is available for free?\". From a business point-of-view
    (other than the font making business, of course)paying for something you can get
    for free is criminal to the bottom line. I know that most people (other designers)
    are incredulous that I actually payed for my CS. For the same money, I could have
    bought a faster computer, or a large format printer, or fancy business cards.
    I could have used the money in better ways to improve my business, but instead
    I payed $1500 for software that I could have had for the asking.\r\n   As for
    the font industry being caught up in the backlash against the music and film industry-
    in a way that is true- but in a way, they are connected by the underlying change
    in technology- that is- digital copies are unlimited and costless, but we still
    price them in a manner that ignores this- choosing to charge prices that support
    foundries and designers instead of prices that would be anyone who fancies leaving
    the hobbiest a tip.\r\n   I've already said why I think higher prices are a good
    idea (in a sea of readily available free alternatives). But type designers really
    have to try to understand why the market should continue to support them (and
    hopefully me someday). The answer might not be the one so many here are giving.\r\n\r\nFinally,
    every time I think that I have to consider- maybe there are enough fonts in the
    world- I see something like \r\nhttp://www.veer.com/products/typedetail.aspx?image=CTT0000163\r\nor\r\nhttp://www.josbuivenga.demon.nl/fontin.html\r\nand
    realize there is still more to be said..."
  created: '2009-02-17 00:48:12'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "I remember when aspiring type designers in these forums used to daydream
    about whether there was enough paying work in type design to justify making a
    career out of it.\r\n\r\nNow the conversation has turned to designers daydreaming
    about all the great typefaces they wish they could use for free. This is basic
    economics, not class-ism.\r\n\r\n(Edit: added 'aspiring' for clarity. Certainly
    there are plenty of people who did and still do.)"
  created: '2009-02-18 00:55:18'
- author:
    name: James Deux
  body: "There is a class-ist component. The arts are stratified. It's cheaper to
    pick up a charcoal pencil than it is to buy a WACOM tablet. Same goes for music.
    Same for sports. The age old racist-joke that so many black males get into college
    with a B-Ball scholarship? It's an easy way to get into college if you have no
    means to pay for it!\r\n\r\nAs long as Design remains pricey, I will continue
    to see things in a slightly classist light. That isn't to say that Type Designers
    are piggish upper-class anything, just that Design is a pricey field because the
    demands are high. \r\n\r\nThat's all. Nothing more or less. "
  created: '2009-02-18 06:18:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It's not the cost of equipment or materials that restricts entry into the
    class of designers, but the ability to earn money.\r\n\r\nAfter all, when all
    one needed in the way of materials was the relatively inexpensive drafting table,
    t-square, set-square, waxer, x-acto knife, sketch pad and some markers, the class
    of professional graphic artists was a much smaller proportion of society.\r\n\r\nYou
    are mistaken if you think you can't do good design without expensive fonts.\r\nThere
    is a traditional school of design, epitomized by Massimo Vignelli, that only uses
    a couple of typefaces.\r\nAnd today, there is the default systems approach.\r\nWell,
    both Experimental Jet Set and Pentagram have a thing about Helvetica.\r\nIn fact,
    in many \"high-end\" circles, these kinds of restricted type use have more cred
    than the latest H&FJ offering.\r\nThen there is low tech and no tech, for which
    there is also a market.\r\nScreenprinting...\r\n\r\nIf you think \"Design is a
    pricey field\" you have fallen for the consumerist hype that you have to buy stuff
    to validate what you do, which is inappropriate for someone of your political
    sensibility. \r\n"
  created: '2009-02-18 06:47:56'
- author:
    name: James Deux
  body: "While not the original focus (or target) of my argument, I do call to question
    the expensive nature of design programs and additional equipment needed to run
    a basic design business. Cameras, PANTONE, even just a few measly fonts aren't
    cheap. An excellent design setup, one well-suited for top-notch creation and productivity
    can run high. In many ways, as was the original argument I made, even the great
    more original ideas can be hampered by financial incapability.\r\n\r\nWhich is
    ultimately the point I want to stress. Now, do I see some of the more basic amenities
    as serious causes for concern and justification for my original comparison? Not
    really. But if everyone can walk away with one things here that i've mentioned
    it is that Design is more expensive a field, from what I have seen, than others.
    It's a digital art.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-19 02:00:02'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "The original argument which contained:\r\n\r\n<em>I\u2019d have spent well
    over 4,000 dollars on typography alone</em>\r\n\r\ndid now become:\r\n\r\n<em>even
    just a few measly fonts aren\u2019t cheap</em>\r\n\r\nFour grand is not measly
    in my book. What would your previous employer or the \u2018ties to the industry
    has allowed me some lush typefaces\u2019 do to you if you took this amount from
    the safe or the cash box?\r\n\r\nFor your sake, I hope that you are just a kid
    who came here to the forum for a bit of fun to try arguing online, and not for
    real."
  created: '2009-02-19 08:44:30'
- author:
    name: James Deux
  body: "There is no conflict in my argument that I have no pointed out and explained.
    Unless you like to claim that you are the formal authority in argument and rhetoric
    here. MFA or PhD paragraph?\r\n\r\nBut seriously, why are you here? I'm arguing
    because I absolutely love to discuss and there have been many mature posters here
    to tamely critique and criticize my argument. You on the other hand just keep
    on griping. "
  created: '2009-02-19 21:53:45'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: I love griping.
  created: '2009-02-19 22:03:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I\u2019m arguing because I absolutely love to discuss...</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    funny, I get the impression you are a know-it-all who likes to pontificate."
  created: '2009-02-19 22:27:56'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Design is more expensive a field, from what I have seen, than others.
    It\u2019s a digital art.</em>\r\n\r\nBack when I went to university, just before
    The Personal Computer Revolution, studying Graphic Design, or working at it, was
    expensive, too. As Nick has said, you needed a drafting table, and magic markers,
    and pencils, and expensive paper! Rub-down lettering and, if an assignment called
    for it, sending text to a phototypesetter. And did I mention airbrushes? Books?
    Rapidographs, and the ink that goes in the rapidographs? Making photocopies?\r\n\r\nThe
    fact that the tools are now digital has nothing to do with it.\r\n\r\nAnd I'll
    mention two other fields that have always been expensive: Architecture and Orthodontics.
    And there are others.\r\n\r\n<em>While not the original focus (or target) of my
    argument, I do call to question the expensive nature of design programs and additional
    equipment needed to run a basic design business...</em>\r\n\r\nPrograms like Adobe
    Photoshop were not created in one day, and have you looked at a list of all the
    highly-skilled people that have worked on a program like Illustrator or Photoshop?
    Should their efforts go unrewarded? We take these applications, and what they
    do for us, for granted... But we shouldn't. Someone had to make them. Someone
    with far more tech skills and knowledge than I will ever have.\r\n\r\nAlso, do
    you think lead type was cheap for printers back when they used lead type? "
  created: '2009-02-20 03:09:13'
- author:
    name: James Deux
  body: "\"That\u2019s funny, I get the impression you are a know-it-all who likes
    to pontificate.\"\r\n\r\nSays you. When I originally said...\r\n\r\n\"But I am
    not posing this to make an argument, only see what others think and to express
    my own doubts about it all.\"\r\n\r\nApparently you are a tl;dr sort. It's a sad
    day that intellectualism today is dissuaded in favor of... well I don't know what.
    \r\n\r\n@Ricardo\r\n\"And I\u2019ll mention two other fields that have always
    been expensive: Architecture and Orthodontics. And there are others.\"\r\n\r\nAnd
    these would be other fields I'd call to question as well. How does one study architecture?
    With GD we can at least pirate. Some of my friends at Architecture school use
    equipment that costs thousands of dollars to purchase, or they utilize skills
    they can't really be effectively taught in a book. \r\n\r\nThis isn't to say that
    I'm invalidating them or saying they are \"bad!!\". I just am wondering how do
    we make this available to all who want it? We cannot. "
  created: '2009-02-20 17:05:18'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>With GD we can at least pirate.</em>\r\n\r\nYou say that like it's a
    good thing. I believe there's an old saying that goes something like, <strong>Nothing
    worth doing is ever easy.</strong>\r\n\r\nAnd as I said earlier, <strong>If you
    want something that badly, you make an effort. In this case, you start saving
    up money to buy the software.</strong> Life's too short. Don't waste valuable
    time!"
  created: '2009-02-20 17:21:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>tl;dr</em>\r\n\r\nHopefully this is a forum where ideas are discussed,
    and the purpose is not just to prove a point.\r\n\r\nI had raised the objection
    to your idea that expensive fonts are required to practice graphic design, by
    pointing out that there are several schools of design, old and new, that hew to
    the minimum-means-of-expression philosophy.\r\n\r\nPresumably, as you are not
    the tl;dr sort, you read that. What is your response?\r\nSurely as an \"art for
    all\" advocate, you would embrace poverty of means as a noble solution, and an
    alternative to the \"gotta buy stuff to validate my existence\" consumerist groove
    you are stuck in.\r\n\r\nWhat do you think of the Constructivist Program?\r\nHave
    you heard of art povera?\r\n\r\nIf you are the intellectual you claim to be, you
    should study these things--they are extremely relevant to your topic, there is
    a cultural history here of which you are ignorant, and which you should engage,
    rather than just banging away with ad hominen crticisms of people far better informed,
    and more honest than you are.\r\n\r\n<em>...at least pirate.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat
    does your university think of your pirating?\r\nIf you have bought into the idea
    that an education can be bought, you have certain contractual obligations. \r\nWhere
    are you studying?\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2009-02-20 20:24:44'
- author:
    name: James Deux
  body: "And I validated that school of thought, cherishing it. If I didn't, then
    I apologize: I appreciate the minimalist approach. If that is a poor term, then
    the \"modest\" approach. I also responded directly to your post. Did you not see
    it? \r\n\r\nI'm also not an \"art for all\" advocate. Let me specifically articulate
    a \"gripe\" that I hold: I am questioning as to why I or you should spend 400
    dollars for a typeface. That is all. It is incredibly limiting to fledgling designers,
    especially poorer ones. Many fields in the arts are limiting because the cost
    for supplies are difficult to handle. \r\n\r\nI have heard of neither one of the
    terms your mentioned but I will look them up this evening once I am finished with
    my work; thank you for the direction.\r\n\r\nFurthermore: I have pirated nothing.
    The fonts in my possession are taken from a friend in the printing industry. That
    may be pirating in which case, so be it and this thread demonstrates my frustrations
    that have stemmed from that.  apart from those fonts, my Adobe Suite is bought
    legitimately. As to the question about my University: I am a student at Emory
    of Atlanta, if you truly wish to know.\r\n\r\nAnd finally: I criticized no one.
    Puckett opened this thread rather poorly and the decorum has since plummeted.
    As for my honesty: How you could possibly evaluate that from Typophile is beyond
    me and I wonder where you get gall to actually assume you have the right to judge
    me; as though you were the expert on honesty! If there was a true judge of honesty
    on this planet, I'd like to meet him or her. \r\n\r\nYou are mistaken to come
    marching in here thinking that I cannot tell\u2014or that I'd somehow doubt\u2014your
    wisdom and knowledge on this subject. From the sound of your tone it sounds as
    though you have something to prove to me. I assure you: you don't. If you know
    what you're talking about, it'll show. Right now you sound more angry than sagacious
    and if you're really gonna try to wizen up my \"know-it-all\" attitude, you should
    give me a reason to listen to you. I don't know much and I'm always quick to say
    but what I do know are people who aren't worth the time of day. Let's not become
    one of those, shall we? \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-20 20:47:43'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "<em>Furthermore: I have pirated nothing. The fonts in my possession are taken
    from a friend in the printing industry.</em>\r\n\r\nSo, who paid for them, to
    cut a long debate short? Who owns them legally? You use the language in your arguments
    in a very slippery way. Where did the friend take them from? From his/her employer?\r\n\r\n<em>Let's
    not become one of those, shall we?</em>\r\n\r\nThieves? Pirates? Liars?"
  created: '2009-02-20 22:53:40'
- author:
    name: James Deux
  body: "<cite>Where did the friend take them from? From his/her employer?</cite>\r\n\r\nUm,
    they are his company's.\r\n\r\nI never claimed that they were rightfully mine.
    Piracy, however, implies a certain method of obtaining. I didn't take this off
    a bit torrent or anything.\r\n\r\n<cite>Thieves? Pirates? Liars?</cite>\r\n\r\nScoundrels?
    Vermin? Scallywags?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-20 23:13:44'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "<cite>Piracy, however, implies a certain method of obtaining.</cite>\r\n\r\nNot
    legally? "
  created: '2009-02-20 23:19:28'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: I bet you study sociology or politics?
  created: '2009-02-20 23:21:51'
- author:
    name: James Deux
  body: "<cite>Not legally?</cite>\r\nOkay?\r\n\r\n<cite>I bet you study sociology
    or politics?</cite>\r\nThis is actually fascinating.\r\n\r\nWhat, pray-tell, makes
    you think this? "
  created: '2009-02-21 00:33:58'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>What, pray-tell, makes you think this?</cite>\r\n\r\nHow shall I say
    this?  Perhaps because there are some people who don't know that many feel the
    Yale School of Design is strongly invested with the notion that certain social/political
    beliefs are a primary criteria of good design. If you are not aware of this element,
    the content of certain arguments might lead you to mistake the field of study. "
  created: '2009-02-21 02:56:23'
- author:
    name: James Deux
  body: "I am again humbled that anyone here would affiliate me with Yale but I am
    not a student there.\r\n\r\nThough I think I can understand the School of Art
    philosophy."
  created: '2009-02-21 03:17:27'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "<em>... sociology or politics</em>\r\n\r\nWell, you clearly do. You would
    not thrive in anything less. You belong there."
  created: '2009-02-21 05:37:54'
date: '2009-02-13 03:15:41'
node_type: forum
title: Typography/Graphic Design and Classism

---
