---
author:
  name: peter bilak
  picture: 109927
body: "A few years ago I have seen Thomas Phinney's presentation talking about updating
  Adobe's font library. I have only vague recollection of it, but I remember that
  he mentioned that all Adobe OTF fonts will include SIZE feature. We (at Typotheque)
  are in the proces of updating our library, fixing some minor bugs, and making the
  OTF features better, so I wondered about the use of SIZE feature.\r\n\r\nWhat is
  an advantage of SIZE when a font includes just a single optical master? How is the
  feature implemented, and what benefit it provides to the users. Is anyone else using
  it at all?\r\n\r\nI'd love to hear your comments. Also if Thomas or Miguel is around,
  can you please explain me how does it work?"
comments:
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Peter, \r\n\r\nThe \"size\" feature essentially contains information about
    the recommended point size for which a certain font should be used. It makes most
    sense for a family of optical masters but I think it also has some sense for single
    fonts (as an informative resource) but I don't think anybody ever added the \"size\"
    feature for a single-optical-master family. \r\n\r\nAs far as I can tell, XeTeX
    is the only application that currently supports the \"size\" feature. To easily
    install XeTeX on Mac OS X, go to http://www.tug.org/mactex/morepackages.html and
    install the BasicTeX-2008 package followed by either LaTeXiT or MacTeX-Additions.
    \r\n\r\nAdam"
  created: '2009-02-15 18:15:19'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"What is an advantage of SIZE when a font includes just a single optical
    master?\"\r\nThe advantage is for the creator to inform the user of the ideal
    size of a scaleable font in print (or online if people want to double-purpose
    that bit too). I'm not sure about other programs presenting this to the user,
    but FontBook 'info' mode shows no 'Size\", but 'says' all fonts are 18 pt.;) \r\n\r\n\"How
    is the feature implemented, and what benefit it provides to the users. Is anyone
    else using it at all?\"\r\nA primary vehicle for such urges has become the font
    name or information from external source(s). \r\n\r\nThere was also once, an opsz
    table that QuarkExpress of the early 90's used, and that worked on single masters
    the way I think you imagine this would, collecting the proper size via table from
    a range of masters and composing with that master/size match. This still requires
    multiple font names for multiple fonts to perplex menus while distinguishing the
    sizes, but it would simplify a lot of publishing problems that have not already
    been solved by templating. \r\n\r\nIn addition, under most circumstances, having
    a proper c. 1994 size table may also help evolve support for the value of selecting
    the proper size/whatever from a table pointing to a modern 'ranging master', as
    all the previous generations of type & typographer solutions did with such hideous
    difficultly in their own materially complex ways. We here have, only software
    to deal with. \r\n\r\nCheers, and a 2xCheers to those updating their libraries!"
  created: '2009-02-19 14:25:12'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "<cite>I don\u2019t think anybody ever added the \u201Csize\u201D feature
    for a single-optical-master family.</cite>\r\n\r\nAll Adobe's fonts were revised
    to include this, as Peter mentioned in his post.\r\n\r\nIt could simply be informative
    for the user, but this information could also be used to automatically track the
    font when used at a significantly larger/smaller size than the design size. Both
    of these reasons were considered relevant in the Adobe decision.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-02-20 21:31:39'
- author:
    name: exfish
    picture: 114724
  body: "Thomas, do any of Adobe's products support the size tag?\r\n\r\n\u2014Noam"
  created: '2009-02-21 18:21:00'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "\"LiveCycle,\" a server-based forms product, does, oddly enough. (Odd that
    would be the only one.)\r\n\r\nI certainly lobbied hard for 'size' support several
    times over the years.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-02-21 22:47:13'
- author:
    name: exfish
    picture: 114724
  body: "Well God bless you for your efforts, sir! I'm working on a size-aware font
    for my MFA thesis, and right now I'm figuring out how it would get implemented
    in the wild. Plug-ins seem like one way to go.\r\n\r\n\u2014Noam"
  created: '2009-02-22 00:13:32'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: <a href="http://scripts.sil.org/xetex">XeTeX</a> supports the <tt>size</tt>
    feature.
  created: '2009-02-22 10:39:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "When one says \"supports the size feature\", what exactly happens? Does the
    app somehow convey to the user what the recommended size is, does it <em>prevent</em>
    the use of the font at any other size, or what?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-22 15:36:39'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I am assuming this is about having a linked group that are \"the same font\"
    except for being different optical size variants. LiveCycle will then automatically
    pick the correct font from that subset. This is the main functionality that was
    intended for the OpenType feature tag when it was conceived.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-02-22 21:20:15'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: Yes, that's the way it works in XeTeX too.
  created: '2009-02-22 21:37:19'
- author:
    name: exfish
    picture: 114724
  body: "For me, the holy grail would be having different optical sizes exist within
    the same font as alternate glyphs, to be intelligently substituted as needed by
    the software. Far fetched, perhaps, but hey...it's my thesis, I gotta dream big
    right?\r\n\r\n\u2014Noam"
  created: '2009-02-23 17:36:46'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Noam, \r\n\r\nRemember that ideally, different optical sizes might have different
    default linespacing values (looser for smaller sizes, tighter for large sizes).
    Also, if the stem thickness differs between the optical sizes, it would greatly
    complicate the hinting. And finally, OpenType fonts are limited to 65,535 glyphs
    per font \u2014 not a problem for European fonts but certainly a problem for Asian
    fonts. \r\n\r\nI think that having separate fonts for each optical size is reasonable.
    \r\n\r\nAdam"
  created: '2009-03-04 22:14:25'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Noam, \r\n\r\nRemember that ideally, different optical sizes might have different
    default linespacing values (looser for smaller sizes, tighter for large sizes).
    Also, if the stem thickness differs between the optical sizes, it would greatly
    complicate the hinting. And finally, OpenType fonts are limited to 65,535 glyphs
    per font \u2014 not a problem for European fonts but certainly a problem for Asian
    fonts. \r\n\r\nI think that having separate fonts for each optical size is reasonable.
    \r\n\r\nAdam"
  created: '2009-03-04 22:14:27'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...having different optical sizes exist within the same font as alternate
    glyphs, to be intelligently substituted as needed...\"\r\nThis suggestion is part
    of any good optical scaling system and was suggested as part of the proposal for
    a size table to add to the OT spec. Although the idea of a master outline embedded
    in a single master is superior for a million reasons, one still needs to account
    for glyphs whose contours do not vary to target with a single contour definition.
    Kanji needs this for smaller sized glyphs that need to lose features, and Latin
    needs it for smaller fi lig. e.g. that must lose its dot vs. larger sizes where
    the dot may stay. \r\n\r\nTwardock: \"... it would greatly complicate the hinting\"\r\nHow?
    How greatly?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-03-06 11:36:33'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I presume Adam means that putting all the optically adjusted glyphs within
    a single font would complicate the hinting by requiring multiple sets of CVT values
    for the different stem weights and alignment heights. Definitely a complication,
    although not an insurmountable one. It would be more difficult in terms of FontLab
    hinting than it would be in VTT.\r\n\r\nIn general, though, I agree with Adam:
    there's no significant benefit to putting all the size-variant glyphs in a single
    font vs. having them in multiple fonts, any more than there would be in putting
    all the weight variant or italic variant forms of a type family in a single font.\r\n\r\nBut
    I don't think the current \u2018size\u2019 GPOS feature implementation is in any
    way a good one. Basically, it's a hack that uses the GPOS table in a way that
    is completely unlike every other use of that table, and I believe that is one
    of the reasons why the feature is not supported outside of, apparently, two applications.
    It falls outside of the basic OTL processing model, and developers who have taken
    the time to understand and implement that model simply ignore the \u2018size\u2019
    feature.\r\n\r\nI suggested a dedicated SIZE table to Adobe and MS a few years
    ago, and David drafted a proposal for such a table last year. I suspect there
    will be some disagreement about the contents of the proposed table and how it
    should work, but in any case someone needs to turn this proposal into a draft
    technical spec, because until that happens I don't think we'll get a lot of serious
    engagement with the idea from MS and Adobe."
  created: '2009-03-06 19:07:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> there\u2019s no significant benefit\r\n\r\n?\r\nConvenience (not having
    to switch fonts manually) is always\r\na major benefit. Just like how OT makes
    it so much nicer when\r\nusing formerly-so-called \"expert\" characters.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-06 20:26:00'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: Unless you're going to have a different master for every size, when to change
    sizes is another matter best left up to the user.
  created: '2009-03-07 01:52:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The user should certainly have the choice to use a font at\r\na \"non-recommended\"
    size, but I think the software can and\r\nshould make the \"default\" selection.
    Remember that: the\r\nsoftware can be smart enough to choose the closest best
    size;\r\nand the size recommendation can (and almost always should)\r\nbe a range,
    not a single size.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-07 02:19:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "From an economic point of view, it would make more sense to have the optical
    sizes in separate fonts. After all, it takes a lot of time to adapt a normal font
    to either headline or micro variants, and not every user needs them all. So if
    a foundry wants to recover its investment when all the variants are in a single
    font, that will make for a very expensive font, and many customers ending up buying
    variants they might not really need. Or deciding not to buy at all.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nThe
    foundry should be able to put some information in the fonts that determines the
    optimum <strong>relative</strong> size at which to use them.\r\n\r\nFor instance,
    if I design a Didone face where the hairline/serif thickness of the \"micro\"
    or \"footnote\" version at 7 pt is the same as that of the \"normal text\" size
    at 10 pt, that ratio of 70% should be embedable in the fonts and recognizable
    by layout applications. It's not quite the same as specifying an optimum size
    for each \"optical\" variant.\r\n\r\nThis quality of size relationship is also
    fundamental in monoline typefaces such as Luc de Groots's Taz and my Bodoni Egyptian,
    where the line thickness of different weights is calculated to equalize when they
    are set at specific size ratios.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-07 04:19:09'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "I like the idea of relative sizes, but I don't think it scales linearly as
    you suggest. There's not that much difference between 36pt and 72pt metal, but
    the difference between 6pt and 12pt is profound. (I have a bunch of ATF cutting
    slips and know how to read them, if anybody needs convincing).\r\n\r\nOf course,
    one of the goals of multiple masters, oh so many years ago, was to make the production
    of different size variants happen dynamically, and I think there was some support
    for it in a few apps, but it also never really got off the ground.\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-07 06:47:10'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"From an economic point of view, it would make more sense to have the optical
    sizes in separate fonts.\"\r\nFrom an economic point of view, it makes vastly
    more sense to have all the optical sizes in a single variable master, and be able
    to deliver it!\r\n\r\n\"There\u2019s not that much difference between 36pt and
    72pt metal... \"\r\nThis is well known. The variations required for optical sizing
    are increasingly non-linear to the bottom, which is why Multiple Masters could
    not die early enough. \r\n\r\n\"Remember that: the software can be smart enough...
    \"\r\nIt's all academic because my inventory of pro bono draft technical specs
    for multibillion dollar companies who can't get beyond their 'embrace and pollute'
    attitude towards standards \u2014 is exhausted. Which reminds me! where the hell
    is Hithcock's 'white' paper on TT instructions ignored and added by cleartype?
    ISO is not pleased. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-03-07 12:48:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>From an economic point of view, it makes vastly more sense to have all
    the optical sizes in a single variable master, and be able to deliver it!</em>\r\n\r\nWell,
    it depends whose economy you're talking about. \r\n\r\n<em>the difference between
    6pt and 12pt is profound.</em>\r\n\r\nNot at all.\r\nIf the stroke thickness of
    Font A at 24 pt is the same as that of Font B at 12 pt, then the thicknesses will
    be the same when A is at 12 pt and B at 6 pt."
  created: '2009-03-07 19:11:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No Nick, it's not linear (ideally). Especially not above 12 (too big to read
    immersively) and below 9 (too small to read immersively). Outside the immersive
    reading range the performance requirements are different.\r\n\r\n> which is why
    Multiple Masters could not die early enough.\r\n\r\nI'm pretty sure I remember
    David Lemon once stating that MM was not [necessarily] linear*; at the very least
    it was multi-linear (meaning a bunch of small lines that simulate a curve). The
    limitations of [retail] font design software is a different matter.\r\n\r\n* In
    fact the MM format even supported the \"non-continuous\" switching of glyphs based
    on size (think of the \"Q\" in Caslon's italics).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-07 19:50:43'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "Ooh, the fight is on!\r\n\r\n@dberlow: <em>The variations required for optical
    sizing are increasingly non-linear to the bottom, which is why Multiple Masters
    could not die early enough.</em>\r\n\r\nNope. The Multiple Master format definitely
    has support for nonlinear parameters, by means of the BlendDesignMap feature.
    Here's the relevant figure from Adobe Tech Note 5091 (which I've been into recently
    because I'm citing another passage for my thesis):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/blenddesignmap_3793.png]\r\n\r\nI'm
    not sure how many fonts used this feature correctly, but then again, there were
    precious few Multiple Master fonts that even tried to do an optical scaling axis.
    There's Minion and Adobe Jenson. Any others? [Edit: according to <a href=\"http://kb.adobe.com/selfservice/viewContent.do?externalId=328600\">Adobe</a>,
    there's also Sanvito.]\r\n\r\n@Nick: <em>If the stroke thickness of Font A at
    24 pt is the same as that of Font B at 12 pt, then the thicknesses will be the
    same when A is at 12 pt and B at 6 pt.</em>\r\n\r\nThat is absolutely not true
    for ATF metal, which I've studied extensively. I can haul out scans, curves, and
    decoded cutting slips, but it would take me some time, and I'm not sure how easily
    convinced you'd be by such gearhead arguments anyway.\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-07 19:57:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thank you Raph.\r\n\r\nSome people need the numbers.\r\nSome people are afraid
    of them.\r\nAnd some people know when to hold 'em and know when to fold 'em.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-07 20:32:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Tracking (the bane of David's existence :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-07 21:50:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Raph, Hrant, here's what I mean.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ns_5827.jpg]\r\n\r\nIn
    the first example (Scotch Modern), I've designed the serif thicknesses and hairlines
    of the Normal and Micro to match when the first is at 10 pt and the second at
    7 pt. As long as this 10:7 ratio is maintained, the fine tolerances match.\r\n\r\nIn
    the second example (Bodoni Egyptian), similar thing, although these are not optical
    sizes per se, but different weights of the face. \r\n\r\nOf course, there is the
    issue of press gain and hinting, and adjustments to the letter proportions, but
    the idea is to keep the threshhold of the face's finesse constant between optical
    sizes.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-07 23:37:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the idea is to keep the threshhold of the\r\n> face\u2019s finesse constant
    between optical sizes.\r\n\r\nWell, no.\r\nYou need more <em>overall</em> optical
    compensation, the lower you go.\r\n\r\n> these are not optical sizes per se, but
    different weights of the face. \r\n\r\nThose are not optical sizes, period.\r\nWeight
    change is only one of the many factors.\r\nThe other big ones are vertical proportions,
    spacing and width.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-08 03:24:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>Convenience (not having to switch fonts manually) is always a
    major benefit.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm presupposing an automated mechanism to select the
    desirable glyphs, whether at the glyph level from within a single font or at the
    family level from among numerous fonts. Wherever the size-specific glyphs are
    stored, there needs to be a) a mechanism to automatically display them at appropriate
    sizes and b) a mechanism to override that automatic display.\r\n\r\nSo given these
    mechanisms, there is no significant benefit to putting all the size variants in
    a single font, and Adam has identified a number of downsides to that approach."
  created: '2009-03-08 03:40:05'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Nope. The Multiple Master format definitely has support for nonlinear parameters,
    by means of the BlendDesignMap feature.\"\r\nYep. The Multiple Master format definitely
    has support for piecewise nonlinear intermediates, but not enough intermediates
    are allowed to approximate the bottom end of all optically mastered designs, just
    the simpler ones.  But I ain't a gonna fight about it until you've taken a run
    at it with MM tech. ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-03-08 12:03:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "@Hrant: <em>You need more overall optical compensation, the lower you go.</em>\r\n\r\nSo
    how do you handle the relative thickness, at different optical sizes, of serifs
    and hairlines in a didone face, if not by equalization?\r\n\r\n@Hrant: <em>Those
    are not optical sizes, period.</em>\r\n\r\nAs I said, not per se. But a typographer
    may combine different sizes of different weights of a monoline face to homogenize
    the stroke weight. This effect may also include line rules."
  created: '2009-03-08 23:30:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Raph: <em>That is absolutely not true for ATF metal,</em>\r\n\r\nOf course
    not, because you can only set a metal font at one size.\r\n\r\nWe're talking about
    what happens when digital fonts are not set at the optimal optical size.\r\nConsider,
    if font A, optimized for 10 pt, is used in a layout with font B, optimized for
    7 pt, and font A is changed to 11 pt? what should happen to font B?\r\n\r\n1.
    Size increased to 7.7 pt\r\n2. Size unchanged\r\n3. Size unchanged and made slightly
    heavier\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-08 23:46:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> a typographer may combine different sizes of different\r\n> weights of
    a monoline face to homogenize the stroke weight.\r\n\r\nSure. Like that survivalist
    on TV who\r\neats mildly poisonous spiders for lunch.\r\n\r\n> you can only set
    a metal font at one size.\r\n\r\nThat's entirely beside the point.\r\n\r\n> We\u2019re
    talking about what happens when digital\r\n> fonts are not set at the optimal
    optical size.\r\n\r\nNo, we <em>were</em> talking about the [non-]linearity of
    features relative to scale.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-08 23:57:57'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "@Nick: I see what your point, and I think it's valid in some design settings,
    but not for optical scaling in general. I stand by my assertion - the amount of
    adjustment (and, as Hrant points out, includes spacing, width, and vertical proportions
    in addition to stroke thickness) is considerably more between, say 6 and 12 points,
    as it is between 36 and 72.\r\n\r\n@dberlow: Okay, that's a different argument.
    There's lots not to like about Multiple Masters, and the need for an exponential
    increase in number of masters is one of them, but again, I stand my assertion
    that the format is <em>capable</em> of nonlinearities, both in mapping the amount
    of adjustment nonlinearly by point size (which is what the figure refers to) and
    in allowing intermediates (which is what you seem to be mostly talking about).\r\n\r\nWould
    anyone truly say that Minion's optical scaling is weak because of an inadequate
    number of intermediate masters? I think that if your goal was to precisely replicate,
    say, an existing optically scaled metal face, there would be problems, but if
    you do it in a way that's natural for the format, I think MM is adequate.\r\n\r\nTo
    make that argument a little more concrete, in ATF scaling, the vertical proportions
    are identical from 10 points up, and the 8pt and 6pt sizes have shorter descenders.
    Getting <em>exactly</em> that effect in MM is not easy. At the very least, you'd
    need to make an intermediate at the 10pt size. But I don't think there's anything
    wrong with just nonlinearly interpolating, so that (using the curve above), the
    12pt vertical proportions would be about halfway between 6 and 72pt. I don't think
    there's anything wrong with that - a reasonable approach that conversely would
    be very difficult to achieve in metal."
  created: '2009-03-09 01:16:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "@Hrant, Raph: If two different optical sizes of the same type are scaled
    together, the relationship between them is linear. Think of it as a single \"Caps
    with Small Caps\" font at different sizes.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-09 04:04:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> If two different optical sizes of the same type are\r\n> scaled together,
    the relationship between them is linear.\r\n\r\nOf course, but how is this relationship
    useful? It's not something that plays any role in good craft. At least not at
    the level of type design itself. And even in the <em>use</em> of type, since we
    hopefully agree that using a given size master at a different size is non-ideal,
    what's the point?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-09 04:33:33'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>...we hopefully agree that using a given size master at a different
    size is non-ideal...</em>\r\n\r\nThat is certainly the case when types designed
    for larger sizes are used at small sizes, because the lightness of the strokes,
    the tight spacing, and the small counters deleteriously affect readability.\r\nIt
    isn't necessarily the case, though, when types for small size are used at larger
    sizes, because in that case the chunkiness of the small size types become a stylistic
    feature of the typography.\r\n\r\nThis is one of the things that is often overlooked
    in discussions of size-specific type: the methods applied to making type work
    at small sizes are essentially functionally, while the conventions applied to
    making type for large sizes are essentially aesthetic. And note that I refer to
    the one as methods and to the other as conventions. There is nothing that functionally
    determines that types for larger sizes need to be lighter or have smaller x-heights:
    these are conventions derived from cultural notions of elegance. So I think the
    question of the linearity or non-linearity of size-specific type depends very
    much on what happens on either side of the point at which the functional and the
    aesthetic meet and, indeed, on what happens at that point."
  created: '2009-03-09 04:53:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the chunkiness of the small size types\r\n> become a stylistic feature
    of the typography.\r\n\r\nIndeed, and sometimes features of small type are \"extracted\"
    and used in type meant only for larger sizes (think Amplitude, and Bradlo earlier).
    On the other hand, such \"chunkiness\" has tellingly never really been a mainstream
    aesthetic preference, and one could claim that the human consciousness leans towards
    attributes (such a geometric congruence) that are essentially display-centric
    and anti-text. To put it another way, taste is admittedly variable (individually
    and socially) but still falls within some bounds set by the primal human psyche.
    This is what leads me to believe that a text font <em>must</em> have a certain
    ugliness (visible only when set large) to really be optimal.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-09 05:12:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...how is this relationship useful? It\u2019s not something that plays
    any role in good craft...</em>\r\n\r\nIt's important to work at the optimal optical
    sizes when combining optical weights.\r\nFor instance, if two fonts are designed
    to work optimally at 9 pt and 6 pt, if they are combined at 10 and 6, that won't
    look as good as 10 and 6.7. A deviation of one point from optimal size is not
    of itself particularly significant, but is much more noticeable in combination.\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-09 06:51:49'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John: \"There is nothing that functionally determines that types for larger
    sizes need to be lighter or have smaller x-heights... \"\r\nThere is. Having evenly
    balanced white space in and around the characters is functional. Larger external
    spaces of a small master size can be diminished by tracking, but the internal
    spaces cannot be regulated for the external spaces from a small master at large
    sizes. Now you will tell me how much you like Verdana at 72 point. In serif faces,
    the large clunky serifs of small sizes used large are a distracting chord against
    the tiny serifs of the smaller sizes. Now you will tell me how much you like Georgia
    at 72 point.\r\n\r\nRalph: \"Would anyone truly say that Minion\u2019s optical
    scaling is weak because of an inadequate number of intermediate masters?\"\r\nMinion,
    and most other Adobe MM do not push very far in the normal axes of width and weight,
    so no, Minion is not weak. But when I talk about the suitability of a technology
    for a purpose, I always think broadly in terms of scripts and styles and not specifically
    to foundries or families that avoid stylistic extrema.  \r\n\r\nCheers\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-09 11:50:07'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>Minion, and most other Adobe MM do not push very far in the normal
    axes of width and weight, so no, Minion is not weak. But when I talk about the
    suitability of a technology for a purpose, I always think broadly in terms of
    scripts and styles and not specifically to foundries or families that avoid stylistic
    extrema.</cite>\r\n\r\nAn interesting point which applies to other aspects of
    font technology too.\r\nFor example, OT layout tables are designed to address
    so-called \"complex scripts\" but fail to do so in practice as soon as things
    are getting as complex as the term promises. Ben Kiel's recent presentation at
    <a href=\"http://robofab.com/robothon/index.html\" target=\"_blank\">RoboThon</a>
    (the best conference I attended so far) illustrated that even \"simple\" things
    like kerning can easily get one in trouble. One limitation is 16-bit offset values
    in GSUB and GPOS. The more fundamental limitation is in the atomistic approach
    that these tables follow: defining layout behavior piece by piece for every possible
    specific context is ok for substituting an initial form here or there, including
    for pseudo-random effects, but better do not try to address a huge number of interacting
    contexts ...\r\n\r\nAdmittedly off-topic as regards the size feature. Regard as
    just another example for the same phenomenon: simplifying the layout behavior
    is making a design compromise, an attempt to \"avoid stylistic extrema\".\r\n(How
    technology and tools influence design bugs me a lot recently.)\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-09 14:55:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> if two fonts are designed to work optimally at 9 pt and 6 pt, if they\r\n>
    are combined at 10 and 6, that won\u2019t look as good as 10 and 6.7.\r\n\r\nGranted,
    but this is pretty tangential to what we\r\nwere discussing: the proper design
    of optical sizes.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-09 15:41:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Me: <em>There is nothing that functionally determines that types for larger
    sizes need to be lighter or have smaller x-heights...</em>\r\n\r\nDavid: <em>There
    is. Having evenly balanced white space in and around the characters is functional.</em>\r\n\r\nOf
    course, so <em>if</em> one's larger size types are lighter and have smaller x-heights,
    then they also need tighter spacing, or if they have tighter spacing then they
    need to have smaller x-height to tighten the internal space. But my point is that
    it is an aesthetic convention that larger size types are lighter, part of a larger
    set of typographic conventions related to page design, and not something that
    is inherently functional to readability, in the way that beefing up and opening
    out smaller type is. The fact this is an aesthetic convention of larger type and
    not a functional requirement is demonstrated by the great variety of heavy, chunky
    display types available. There is nothing that determines that larger type needs
    to be elegantly light and airy: that is just one possible style.\r\n\r\n<em>In
    serif faces, the large clunky serifs of small sizes used large are a distracting
    chord against the tiny serifs of the smaller sizes.</em>\r\n\r\nThis is a good
    point, but it presupposes the typographic conventions of page design to which
    I referred above: particular kinds of combinations of larger and small type in
    a closely related style on the same page. Important stuff, to be sure, but the
    methods necessary to make small type readable are independent of these conventions:
    you have to do them regardless of whether there will also be large type appearing
    in proximity. The conventions of large type are not of the same functional order."
  created: '2009-03-09 18:35:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Karsten, it could also be said that the limitations of tools serve to focus
    design.\r\nFor instance, when I couldn't get a pseudo-random script font to compile
    in FontLab, because it had a huge kern feature, that forced me to rationalize
    the fit of the face, by adjusting sidebearings and reducing the number of kerning
    classes. More work, but also a more rigorously designed typeface.\r\n\r\nBut I
    hear what you're saying. Duffy Script creates its pseudo-random effect with four
    alternates of every character--that's not quite enough to minimize the possibility
    of repetitive sequences as much as I'd like. So there's a technological dead end
    there.\r\n\r\nUltimately, Donald Knuth's concept of the metafont, stroke-based
    rather than outline-based, would seem to offer more potential as a means of creating
    typography that is amenable to digital processes. Is the font industry going to
    be sidewiped by someone developing a layout engine and a set of fonts which uses
    that technology?\r\n\r\nHrant, we have gone off topic a bit, but Peter's request
    for comments on the SIZE feature was quite broad in scope.\r\n\r\nActually, I
    haven't put SIZE in any fonts yet. Because I'm not comfortable putting features
    I can't test into fonts.\r\nI have put some unsupported features in fonts, for
    instance \"hist\", but at least that can be tested in FontLab's OT Preview.\r\nI
    primarily target the CS applications, so when InDesign supports this feature,
    then I will consider it."
  created: '2009-03-09 18:44:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the limitations of tools serve to focus design.\r\n\r\nGood point (although
    not exactly \"focus\").\r\n\r\n> Donald Knuth\u2019s concept of the metafont,
    stroke-based rather\r\n> than outline-based, would seem to offer more potential
    as a means\r\n> of creating typography that is amenable to digital processes.\r\n\r\nI'd
    agree, but sadly -and hopefully much\r\nmore significantly- it's very anti-reader.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-09 19:08:19'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: Honestly, I prefer a tool/technology serving me rather than me serving a tool/technology.&nbsp;&nbsp;;-)
  created: '2009-03-09 19:44:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "John: <em>There is nothing that functionally determines that types for larger
    sizes need to be lighter or have smaller x-heights...</em>\r\n\r\nSeveral reasons:\r\n\r\nFirstly,
    something practical. Consider body text set at 10 pt, and footnotes at 7 pt.\r\nNow
    suppose that the footnote text font has a larger x-height, corresponding to 7.5
    pt of the body text.\r\nWhat is the advantage of this, in a layout, for the typographer?\r\n\r\nCompare
    the ratio of size to leading, in the body and footnote.\r\nIf body is set 10 on
    12 and footnote at 7 on 9, the ratios are 0.83 and 0.78.\r\nTo equalize the proportion,
    the footnote should be set 7 on 8.4, or 7.5 on 9.\r\nSo, having a larger x-height
    in small text allows for a whole-number leading value.\r\n\r\nSecondly, think
    of the footnote text not as 7 pt with a big x-height, but as 7.5 pt with shorter
    extenders.\r\nWhat is the advantage of shorter extenders in small type?\r\n\r\nWell,
    it depends on the leading.\r\nSo, say the typographer equalizes the ratio of x-height
    to between-x-height space, in the two type sizes.\r\nThis is a principle which
    typographers follow.\r\nWhat is the advantage of having shorter extenders in the
    smaller size?\r\n\r\nConsider the gap, or tolerance, between descenders and ascenders
    in adjacent lines.\r\nIf this is decreased proportionately in the footnote text,
    it will of course be a smaller absolute value.\r\nHowever, this \"distance between\"
    is of the same order as the distance between glyphs, i.e. their sidebearings.
    \r\nSo if the horizontal proximity space between glyphs is proportionately increased
    in small optical sizes, then the vertical proximity should also be increased.
    \r\n\r\nThis is because the smaller type becomes, the more the tolerances involved
    approach absolute values at the threshold of perception. Another way of saying
    this is that legibility issues are more crucial at small sizes than readability
    issues. Hence \"non-linearity\" of design with relation to size.\r\n\r\nThirdly,
    there is the question of overall density of a text block.\r\nMicro type is necessarily
    bolder than normal text size type. Even with wider sidebearings, text colour may
    still be bolder than that of the main text. Reducing the size of extenders and
    capitals compensates, so that the two optical sizes still look like the same weight
    of type.\r\n\r\nFourthly, the small-cute connection.\r\nHumans are programmed
    to like the appearance of small creatures with big features, presumably so that
    we don't devour our young. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/images_5951.jpeg]\r\nNote
    shorter extenders in the smaller optical size (left)."
  created: '2009-03-09 20:21:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick, when I was talking about \u2018large\u2019 type, I meant larger than
    text sizes, what we might call display type, but also some sizes of e.g. subheads.
    As I acknowledged in my response to David, there are good reasons for reducing
    the x-height and tightening the spacing of lighter, more elegant styles of letters
    so that they work well alongside smaller type of the same style. But these are
    design decisions that are subsequent to particular styles of typography, not to
    the size of the type per se. But when we are dealing with small type, but which
    I mean typical text sizes and smaller, then we are making design decisions that
    are not subsequent to particular styles of typography but to fundamentals of legibility
    and readability.\r\n\r\nTo put it another way: 6pt type needs to have certain
    characteristics in order to be legible and readable; 36pt type can have virtually
    any common type characteristics and still be legible and readable. So the factors
    determining the design for type at 36pt are predominantly aesthetic, and insofar
    as they are functional they are so within the aesthetic framework of particular
    typographic styles and systems."
  created: '2009-03-09 21:46:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> legibility issues are more crucial at small sizes than readability issues.\r\n\r\nYes,
    and the fact that legibility at small sizes is largely a result of <em>visibility</em>
    is why shorter extenders (ie larger relative x-height) are better for smaller
    sizes. But this is why the bulk of your argument fails; all those scenarios are
    easily addressed by a consideration of what the reader needs, as opposed to what
    a designer does. For example just because some typographers try to equalize vertical
    proportions and such across sizes doesn't make it a good idea; in my book that's
    deluded Modernism - an \"internal game\". The reader does not benefit, he suffers.\r\n\r\n>
    Reducing the size of extenders and capitals compensates\r\n\r\nNo, because human
    vision has already played that role. Smaller type needs to be darker simply because
    our eyes see it lighter. The ideal amount of spacing and width and the ideal vertical
    proportions and leading stem from such realities, not some designer's whim or
    habits.\r\n\r\n> presumably so that we don\u2019t devour our young.\r\n\r\nSo
    you only eat unattractive things?  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-09 22:01:09'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John: \"The fact this is an aesthetic convention of larger type and not a
    functional requirement...\" and \"...the factors determining the design for type
    at 36pt are predominantly aesthetic...\"\r\n\r\nFacts and definitions of function
    vary with distance and mirrors, I guess. I'm sure you can not draw the line between
    aesthetic and function so clearly in either the old or new design paradigms, or
    in the confluencial format/devices we today employ. E.g I'm not just making the
    x smaller, the spacing and width narrower and the strokes lighter to be Mr. Elegant
    \u2014 I'm out to fit more on a headline, or make it useful bigger, or both. That
    sounds functional to me. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-03-10 14:13:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>... definitions of function vary ...</em>\r\n\r\nAn important point.\r\nType
    designers have two clients/users -- the typographer and the reader.\r\nFonts have
    to work as tools for the typographer, as well as possessing an innate functionality
    of readability.\r\nOther constraints informing type design: market forces, cultural
    trends, technological capabilities.\r\n\r\n<em>... make it ... bigger...</em>\r\n\r\nWords
    often associated with size features.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-10 16:32:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Make it bigger but fit it into a smaller space is often the cry of the client.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-10 17:17:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>I\u2019m sure you can not draw the line between aesthetic and
    function so clearly in either the old or new design paradigms, or in the confluencial
    format/devices we today employ. E.g I\u2019m not just making the x smaller, the
    spacing and width narrower and the strokes lighter to be Mr. Elegant \u2014 I\u2019m
    out to fit more on a headline, or make it useful bigger, or both. That sounds
    functional to me.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, it's functional, but it is functional within
    the context of particular kinds of typography, e.g. newspaper headline, not functional
    in the context of readability in the way that the decisions we make in the design
    of small type are.\r\n\r\nAs I suggested earlier, what is interesting is what
    happens at the point where the functionality of readability gives way to the functionality
    of typography that is possible at larger sizes. This point is design-dependent
    and not merely size dependent, although I think it is generally around typical
    text sizes, and hence one of the reasons why those sizes are typical: they solve
    the challenges of readability and begin to make richer typographic layouts possible.\r\n\r\nNewspaper
    headline type is a good example to look at, because it is generally heavier as
    well as more condensed than the text face, unlike a book titling face which will
    tend to be lighter. So this is an example of what I was talking about above: different
    kinds of large size typography that are independent of what is happening in the
    type at small sizes."
  created: '2009-03-10 18:46:19'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John: \"...what happens at the point where the functionality of readability
    gives way to the functionality of typography...\"\r\nThis is a made-up point.\r\n\r\nJohn:\"...
    different kinds of large size typography that are independent of what is happening
    in the type at small sizes.\"\r\nI think of the big bold condensed sans as an
    optically sized version of the text, serif or sans; that the choice of whether
    to use a slight serif, or a bold sans is not usually independent of what is happening
    in the type at small sizes; and that this is something inherently functional to
    readability and not what you are here calling 'typography.'\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-03-11 13:03:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "As soon as you have a situation in which text type X is combined with display
    type Y in one situation and display type Z in another situation, you have to look
    at what is different in the situations -- in the typography -- rather than what
    is different in the types, in order to understand why Y or Z is appropriate to
    that situation. To say that a display type is \u2018an optically sized version
    of the text' when there are no stylistic similarities between the text and display
    types, when, indeed, the typographic style may be based on deliberate contrast
    of the style of these types, makes no sense. The display type is optically sized,
    to be sure, but it is not \u2018a version of the text'.\r\n\r\nAnd my central
    point remains: the decisions in the process of type design that are necessary
    to make small type readable are of a different kind from the decisions that result
    in a variety of different display types. Let's imagine starting with a typical
    text face, designed for use at around 11pt. Then let's say that one needs to make
    a version of that type for use at 6pt. This is a need that is only addressable
    by making the new design stylistically related to the text type; otherwise, the
    word \u2018version' has no meaning, and one might as well use some other type
    already optimised for 6pt. My argument is that, at 6pt, the kind of things that
    one has to do to that 11pt design to make it work at the smaller size, are so
    constrained by requirements of readability as to be essentially deterministic
    (complicated, to be sure, and not programmatic in a way that is readily automated
    for optimum results, although one can get a good distance quickly with Tim Ahren's
    RMX tools). But heading in the opposite direction -- making a display version
    of the same text type (again with the word \u2018version' actually meaning something)
    -- one is not faced with constrained decisions about what one <em>must</em> do
    to make the type readable, but with options as to what one <em>can</em> do to
    make the type serve different kinds of typographic layout (condensed headlines
    or elegant book titling; direct linear similarity (real or apparent) or deliberate
    distinctiveness (\xE0 la Caslon's big types)).\r\n\r\nPut it another way: for
    the same 11pt text type, one might produce a variety of display versions for use
    in different typographic situations, and they will all be readable; but if you
    want your 6pt version to be readable, then it is going to look one particular
    way."
  created: '2009-03-11 19:04:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>if you want your 6pt version to be readable, then it is going to look
    one particular way. </em>\r\n\r\nThere is no reason that there can't be several
    \"readable\" text versions of a typeface developed from a display original.\r\nVersions
    for book and news text may be quite different, in the length of descenders, notably.\r\nFor
    instance, compare 6 pt. Linotype Scotch and Linotype Scotch No.2 (I'm looking
    at a 1950s specimen book). The latter has longer extenders, presumably for book
    work, whereas the former is more suitable for cramming agate.\r\nSo as David says,
    it is the requirements of the document, and the particular medium, that are the
    constraining criteria, not a generalized and abstract notion of \"readability\".\r\n\r\nIt
    is good old \"immersive\" typographism to privilege  body text as the basic and
    pure form of reading, with display text considered to be decorated with aesthetic
    glosses. But there is no difference for the reader, she doesn't see the so-called
    typographic qualities of display sizes any more than similar qualities in small
    type. What are these qualities? Sidebearing width, stroke weight, x-height, extender
    length, counter size -- all these things are incrementally variable across the
    full range of type size, and visually significant to the experience of reading.\r\nIt's
    not like you read small text and that's it, but when you read big text you also
    see aesthetics.\r\nPeople read documents, not fonts.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-11 22:35:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> So as David says, it is the requirements of the document, and\r\n> the
    particular medium, that are the constraining criteria, not\r\n> a generalized
    and abstract notion of \u201Creadability\u201D.\r\n\r\nI think he said that's
    <em>one</em> of the constraints. I hope he doesn't in fact subscribe to your denialism
    of readability - that would be very disappointing.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-12 01:23:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "These days I don't deny readability, but situate it primarily as a function
    of the document, not the typeface.\r\n(Nonetheless, I do advertise the readability
    of certain of my typefaces, according to general wisdom.)\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-12 01:52:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> primarily as a function of the document, not the typeface.\r\n\r\nCertainly.
    But for a person who makes type, the readability of fonts must be a big chunk
    of his world. No matter what the market wants.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-12 02:17:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Nick, in the Latin script, ascender and descender length is pretty flexible
    regardless of the type size, because with the exception of the g they are usually
    very simple forms. And as you note in comparing different cuts of 6pt Scotch types,
    extenders of different length are a quick and cheap way to vary the appearance
    and hence usefulness of otherwise similar or identical types. I don't think this
    affects my argument significantly, though, because the same thing may be done
    to the extenders at any size, so this is not a factor in the decisions that need
    to be made to make the letters readable at small sizes.
  created: '2009-03-12 02:26:29'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John you are a cleavin' a single issue in two with private semantics. Making
    type \"attractive\" let's say, in the most literal use of that word, whether large
    or small, is in a single set of variables up and down the size spectrum. Choice
    in these variables is informed, in the best case, by reaching for a proper aesthetic,
    executing with a proper economy, and for a given environment attached to the needs
    of that reader. \r\n\r\n<em>Obviously</em> there are fewer choices in smaller
    sizes because of their aesthetic preconceptions of those wee spaces, and <em>obviously</em>
    there are more choices in larger sizes because of their aesthetic preconceptions
    of those less wee spaces. But it is a single spectrum of variables, aesthetics
    and economies for all readers.\r\n\r\nWhen I said that those big thick clunky
    Sans were the optically sized version of text serif, I was informed by historical
    fact and by practice. Why John is cleaving a single issue into two parts with
    semantics <em>may</em> only be answered, later.\r\n\r\nNick: \"There is no reason
    that there can\u2019t be several \u201Creadable\u201D text versions...\"\r\nThat's
    for sure. \r\n\r\n> So as David says...\r\nReally?\r\n>I think he said that\u2019s
    one of the constraints.\r\nReally.\r\n\r\nJohn: \"Nick, in the Latin script, ascender
    and descender length is pretty flexible regardless of the type size,...\"\r\nIf
    you say so, but foot space and headspace are usually dictated rather strictly
    by the x-ht's proportion of the Em, making the rest not particularly flexible
    unless built-in leading is summoned, or the face is scaled on the body. If this
    is not a factor in the decisions that need to be made to make the letters readable
    at small sizes, I'm not sure what is. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-12 19:02:11'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "<i>Donald Knuth\u2019s concept of the metafont, stroke-based rather than
    outline-based, would seem to offer more potential as a means of creating typography
    that is amenable to digital processes.</i>\r\n\r\n<b>I\u2019d agree, but sadly
    -and hopefully much more significantly- it\u2019s very anti-reader.</b>\r\n\r\n@hrant:
    care to elaborate on what you mean by \"anti-reader\"? :)"
  created: '2009-03-13 03:55:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Please let me know if my review of Legato* is enough.\r\nIf not I can find
    more elaborations on-site.\r\n\r\n* Best current place to read it: http://typophile.com/node/55783\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-13 04:10:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>Obviously there are fewer choices in smaller sizes because of
    their aesthetic preconceptions of those wee spaces, and obviously there are more
    choices in larger sizes because of their aesthetic preconceptions of those less
    wee spaces. But it is a single spectrum of variables, aesthetics and economies
    for all readers.</em>\r\n\r\nAt this point, I think we're just looking at the
    same thing in two different ways. To me, variables are only significant if they
    are \u2018in play\u2019, so when you talk about fewer or more \u2018choices\u2019
    being available at smaller or larger sizes, that to me means simply fewer or more
    variables being in play. As an example, let's consider x-height as a variable:
    x-height is a variable that can be taller or shorter. A 6pt type needs an x-height
    of a minimum size relative to the em, below which it cannot function; at the same
    time, it can't get so large that it diminishes the significance and effectiveness
    of the ascenders. So the x-height variable in 6pt type is severely constrained
    and, in effect out of play. 72pt type, on the other hand, might have a tiny x-height
    or a relatively huge one, depending on style, intended use, etc., so x-height
    is a variable that is in full play in 72pt type. You think about this in terms
    of fewer or more choices at different sizes; I think about it in terms of few
    or more variables being in play. Ultimately, we probably mean something pretty
    similar, but have found it useful to think about it in different ways."
  created: '2009-03-13 05:43:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>If you say so, but foot space and headspace are usually dictated
    rather strictly by the x-ht\u2019s proportion of the Em, making the rest not particularly
    flexible unless built-in leading is summoned, or the face is scaled on the body.
    If this is not a factor in the decisions that need to be made to make the letters
    readable at small sizes, I\u2019m not sure what is.</em>\r\n\r\nNick was the one
    who cited two 6pt Scotch types, one with short extenders and one with long extenders.
    Yes, that implies decisions about how to proportion the whole relative to the
    em, but obviously there are technical solutions, even at 6pt.\r\n\r\nPerhaps it
    would have been more appropriate to say that, in the Latin script, ascender and
    descender length is pretty flexible regardless of the relative height of the non-extending
    letters, independent of specific technologies; i.e. it is a feature of the script
    not of font formats and typesetting technologies."
  created: '2009-03-13 05:50:50'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> Donald Knuth\u2019s concept of the metafont, stroke-based \r\n> rather
    than outline-based, would seem to offer more \r\n> potential as a means of creating
    typography that \r\n> is amenable to digital processes.\r\n\r\nRight. Only that
    so far, nobody presented an attractive and workable (i.e. not ugly and not overloaded
    with untolerable compromises) solution using that concept :) \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-13 14:26:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I suspect that is because they were trying to imitate type made with old
    media.\r\nOf course, that's a requirement of new type technolgy.\r\nBut wouldn't
    a monoline cursive script be reasonably free of compromise, and suited to metafont
    technology?"
  created: '2009-03-13 19:09:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I wouldn't call it a requirement.\r\n\r\nMonoline? That has its own difficulty,
    since the modulation necessary to make it <em>appear</em> monoline is exactly
    something that stroke-based design sucks at. (Plus, a monoline cursive script
    is low readability.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-13 19:25:52'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "I'm not that fond of strokes either. You have to encode a lot of extra information
    into the weight modulation, and then (to my eye, anyway), joins and corners never
    look exactly right. There are some technical advantages (they're easier to hint
    than outlines), but I don't think that outweighs their drawbacks.\r\n\r\nIn particular,
    I don't think they're that much better suited to optical scaling than outlines.
    Yes, it's easy to just crank up the pen nib, but for outlines, you can accomplish
    pretty much the same by adding a stroke outline - and that's historically accurate
    to what ATF did (not forgetting to also pay attention to spacing, width, and vertical
    proportions).\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.kalliculator.com/\">Kalliculator</a>
    is of course interesting, and I'm pretty sure there are some compressed CJK fonts
    for mobile applications based on strokes, but I'm happy to stick with outlines
    even into the Star Trek future. I just want them to be spiro curves instead of
    Beziers :)"
  created: '2009-03-13 20:10:02'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I was thinking the FontChameleon technology would have its patent expire
    soon (US patent #5949435), and would be of interest in this discussion. But it
    turns out the patent wasn't filed until 1997, and doesn't expire until 2017. Oh
    well.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-14 01:12:23'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...in the Latin script, ascender and descender length is pretty flexible
    regardless of the relative height of the non-extending letters, independent of
    specific technologies;\"\r\nYes. And if it were not for this huge planet in the
    way, one could sky-dive forever. \r\n\r\nFontChameleon technology? Thomas, do
    you know how that works(ed)?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-03-15 11:44:47'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Yeah, I know a lot about it... but.\r\n\r\nBefore I chat much about it, I'd
    have to read the patent carefully to determine how much is public knowledge, and
    maybe talk to my former management as well, to see their thoughts. Adobe isn't
    currently doing much with it, but I'm mindful of my NDA.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-03-16 00:30:43'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "A good general description of how FontChameleon worked can be found in the
    prior art discussion of Agfa's font compression patent (<a href=\"http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=8&f=G&l=50&d=PTXT&p=1&p=1&S1=5,754,187&OS=5,754,187&RS=5,754,187\">5754187,
    1998</a>):\r\n\r\n<em>\r\nThe FONTCHAMELEON product incorporates one or more \"master
    fonts\" and more than 200 typeface design descriptors that reshape the master
    font to simulate popular typeface designs such as TIMES and HELVETICA. Each master
    font comprises outlines containing as control points all those required to define
    any of the typeface design style variations supported by the master. For Latin
    alphabets, at least two master fonts are required: one for non-italic and the
    other for italic styles. The individual typeface design descriptors define only
    those required for a given typeface, leaving the remainder unused as redundant
    points. Each master font requires about 200 KB of storage, and each typeface design
    descriptor uses about 3 Kbytes of disk space.\r\n....\r\n\r\nThe above methods
    in the prior art have in common the compression of font data by content information
    compaction to a varying degree. The INFINIFONT and FONTCHAMELEON systems both
    replace individual typeface design-dependent character outlines with one or more
    master outline data or procedural descriptions from which approximations of character
    outlines are constructed on-the-fly by typeface design- and character-dependent
    descriptors.\r\n</em>"
  created: '2009-03-16 04:01:12'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I\u2019d have to read the patent carefully to determine how much is public
    knowledge...\"\r\n\r\nYou do that! We made three of four hundred 'descriptors'
    for Adobe so I can tell you, if no one has upgraded the tools since OS 8, fuggetaboutit!\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-03-16 11:19:19'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "David B: The Chameleon descriptor dev tool \"ChamEdit\" hasn't been touched
    since OS 8 days, no. There was a last-gasp effort to write a manual for ChamEdit,
    though, which could be helpful.\r\n\r\nI had dinner with David Lemon last night,
    and just as he was dropping me off at Paul Hunt's afterward I asked about the
    possibility of getting at least the Chameleon editor out of Adobe in some fashion.
    He thought it was a pretty oddball request, but not necessarily out of the question.\r\n\r\nI
    think the above descriptions give a decent idea of how the Chameleon tech works.
    The patent is pretty clear, too. Basically, you've got a \"master outline\" with
    lots of points on it. Each \"descriptor\" stores only the transformations to that
    outline. Wherever possible, those transformations are done globally: things like
    lower-case vertical stem standard thickness, etc. That's also how they work in
    ChamEdit: you set a variable like this and it is automatically applied everywhere
    it's needed. Then you do overrides where necessary.\r\n\r\nWhat am I thinking?\r\n\r\nI
    have long thought that for many kinds of typeface designs, the Chameleon editor
    would make a really handy rapid prototyping tool. A great way to quickly define
    the basic characteristics of the typeface. It could export Type 1 fonts....\r\n\r\nOn
    the downside, the natural tendency of working with such an environment would be
    to create a more bland and homogenized font. Instead of starting with lots of
    personality and trying to tame it (my usual type design problem), you'd be facing
    the opposite problem.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-03-17 20:59:10'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Thomas, \r\n\r\nthis sounds like the Font Chameleon principle is not much
    different from TrueType Variations as implemented in Skia GX/AAT (the <a href=\"http://developer.apple.com/textfonts/TTRefMan/RM06/Chap6gvar.html\">gvar</a>
    table), in which the variations are described using deltas of point coordinates,
    and which could be edited, AFAIR, using the GX Mutator tool. \r\n\r\nUnfortunately,
    I've never seen ChamEdit or GX Mutator \"in action\". I would like to, and I would
    happily talk with my colleagues at FontLab about possibilities to implement such
    an approach in our applications. \r\n\r\nAlternatively, people should have a look
    at Erik van Blokland's <a href=\"http://superpolator.com/\">Superpolator</a> which
    implements a similar approach as the one which was used in TrueType Variations. "
  created: '2009-03-17 23:31:07'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Well, *kind* of. But first you have a bunch of info about deltas for global
    stuff, and then only gradually get more specific. Depending on the typeface, some
    (or many) glyphs might not have *any* \"glyph-specific\" info at all!\r\n\r\nAnd
    you only worry about the key points you need... all the many \"unnecessary\" points
    from the master design get interpolated....\r\n\r\nThe execution, in terms of
    the actual *code* and stability thereof kinda sucks. But the concepts and UI are
    pretty great.\r\n\r\nOf course remember that many aspects of this are patented
    for another eight years.  :/  Of course, you could always approach Adobe about
    licensing the patent. \r\n\r\nCheers, \r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-03-18 01:42:41'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Oh, and to bring this back around to optical size, one of the nice things
    about ChamEdit is that one could easily tweak parameters like serif thickness,
    contrast, and x-height, with corresponding global effects on glyphs. That was
    part of what brought it to mind here.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-03-18 01:46:43'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "In technical principles, TrueType Variations used an open format for input,
    defined with a free and open tool, stored it in a few open tables, and output
    as open TT, while Chameleon didn't use any standards. In design principles Font
    Chameleon is much like a corral, go play anywhere, but don't leave. Variations
    and Superpolations are a wide open field with posts that have signs telling you
    what's in each direction, and it's all up to the designer or user to wander the
    space, or in fact leave it. So I'm not sure what common principles there are among
    these formats, except that one can twiddle input and effect output. \r\n\r\n\"...one
    of the nice things about ChamEdit is that one could easily tweak parameters...\"\r\nThis
    is true, after a very long preprocess. And in the end, all these brilliances have
    to return to the puny-human formats and caved-in menus of the dummy-world where
    none of these multiple mastered formats are installable. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-19 11:38:05'
- author:
    name: DavidL
  body: "I located a FontChameleon box gathering dust here. It specifies System 7
    for Mac and Windows 3.1 for Windows - although it's possible things would run
    on a modern OS too. I haven't tried it, because I'm too lazy to try to find a
    floppy disk drive that will connect to my MacBook.\r\n\r\nI think David B's comments
    are on target here. The master font predetermines what range of possibilities
    is available. The shrinkwrap version of FontChameleon comes with a canned master
    font, and 47 descriptors \"similar to\" various popular faces, crafted for FontChameleon
    by The Font Bureau. (The clone aspect is the main reason Adobe promptly buried
    the product.)\r\n\r\nAdobe did use the technology for a while, but it required
    extensive (and expert) work on the master font to make it useful for our purposes.
    I believe there were something like five people who ever knew how to do it. I
    suspect that's the kind of work David B is recalling so fondly...\r\n\r\nI do
    think Thomas' idea is attractive in its way. If one had a programmer available
    to set up & tune the master font to one's spec's, one could indeed use the Chameleon
    tools to do parametric tweaks as a means of design exploration. But that's an
    enormous \"if\". Of course one can get similar results on a much smaller (but
    more doable) scale by setting up appropriate multiple masters.\r\n\r\nThe guys
    who created FontChameleon did see type design potential in it. They were thinking
    that a designer might want to start out a new project by creating outlines that
    were, say 70% Bodoni and 30% Palatino, and then adjust parameters from there.
    Personally, I have trouble seeing a serious designer being interested in such
    an approach, but maybe that's just me."
  created: '2009-03-25 01:12:04'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "David L, you're looking at the FontChameleon retail product. It's an amusing
    toy, but not very interesting (to me, anyway) for developing new fonts. I don't
    see much use in starting out with something that's 70% Bodoni and 30% Palatino,
    either.\r\n\r\nBut I was thinking about the ChamEdit application, that was used
    by FB and others to create the \"descriptor\" files (a.k.a. Chameleon fonts).
    Although I never completed a typeface with it, I did get pretty far along in that
    direction while reviewing the newly-written documentation.\r\n\r\nI was thinking
    that for prototyping a brand new design, from scratch, the ChamEdit app would
    be pretty handy. I'd have loved to use it that way. Instead of using it to duplicate
    an existing font, you'd be using it to develop a new one. Heck, if I'd been on
    a Mac, I probably would have used it for the early stages of Hypatia Sans development.
    No programmer required.  :)\r\n\r\nOf course, I would have run up against limitations
    of the master font pretty quickly, just in terms of it not supporting Greek, Cyrillic,
    and some of the extended Latin I was doing. But other than that, it seems like
    a reasonably workable approach to start.\r\n\r\nI do wonder if it might interact
    poorly with trying to do a real multiple master or Superpolator approach, though.
    Hmmm.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-25 03:23:28'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "DavidL: \"The shrinkwrap version of FontChameleon comes with a canned master
    font, and 47 descriptors \u201Csimilar to\u201D various popular faces, crafted
    for FontChameleon by The Font Bureau. (The clone aspect is the main reason Adobe
    promptly buried the product.)\"\r\n\r\nOoops! to make clear what Mr. Lemon is
    casually portraying in an unclear, borderline yikes! fashion: The term 'clone'
    in the usual context @Typophile, means to make a copy of something that someone
    else made which the cloner has no right to. Chameleon descriptor files, by contrast
    and by contract, were only made from template fonts to which Adobe had legal license.
    With Adobe tools, at Adobe expense this was <em>instead</em> a format conversion
    for the purpose of file compression for cheaper PostScript printer boards for
    faster printing at a time where such things were thought by Adobe to be concerns
    to Adobe's customers.  \r\n\r\nI was always of the opinion, that dumber and cheaper
    and crisper and blacker were all you could ask for in a printer, (a bad idea for
    printer royalty junkies), and the cpu should do All The Font Work. The market
    agreed, and that, I believe, is the actual size main reason Adobe eventually buried
    the product. I remember nothing prompt in it at all, but I may be corrected. \r\n\r\nThomas:
    \"I was thinking that for prototyping a brand new design, from scratch, the ChamEdit
    app would be pretty handy. \"\r\n\r\nPrototyping a brand new design, from scratch,
    (type design) is best handled otherwise in my experience. One would only need
    to use CE a few days to argue your self back to reality. Compared to the upfront
    work involved in making what did get made, this product was only handy for what
    it was made to do. Or, if FC had been applied to some kind of fine output tuning,
    like to shorten a text artistically .998%, or weight a text meticulously for a
    particular production path, or help type on screen or in print to survive a background,
    or hop long descenders over caps and descenders, it might have lived.\r\n\r\n\"Of
    course, I would have run up against limitations of the master font pretty quickly...
    [and]...I do wonder if it might interact poorly with trying to do a real multiple
    master or Superpolator approach\"\r\n\r\nBoth MM and FC are subsets of SP to the
    skilled and patient. And, since one is the master of one's own SP master, one
    would run up against no limitations in the master quickly and forever. Look Ma,
    no Ernie!\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-25 13:11:52'
date: '2009-02-15 08:33:08'
title: Implementing size feature

---
