---
author:
  name: bendy
  picture: 112931
body: "Hi\r\n\r\nI thought fellow typophiles might like to see the attached pdf for
  the most recent iteration of my Eternal font.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ideal_3876.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
  think I'm finally beginning to crack the numerals: gosh they've been a struggle!\r\n\r\nPlease
  feel free to crit! \r\n\r\nSpecifically I'm not sure if the small caps are dark
  enough.\r\n\r\nAlso, I'm wondering about certain shapes: M, B, Q, T, Z, a, f, x,
  y, Ae and Th.\r\n\r\nI realise some of the shapes are not merged where contours
  cross. Not sure what happened to the threequarters fraction. Also some of the accented
  characters need to be recomposed with the current base characters.\r\n\r\nIs Uhorn
  allowed to have its serif missing like that? Does the contextual alternate r work?\r\n\r\nDoes
  the spacing work? What about the smallcap spacing?\r\n\r\nThanks a lot :) "
comments:
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "hmm..is it me or the PDF has some problems...some letters are missing.\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio"
  created: '2009-02-16 00:31:42'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Um, not sure. It works ok for me even when restarting Internet Explorer. Anyone
    else got problems with the pdf?
  created: '2009-02-16 00:38:51'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "Hmm...now its OK.\r\nWill check it and post my comments.\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio"
  created: '2009-02-16 00:57:07'
- author:
    name: merkri
  body: "Looks really elegant. Very nice.\r\n\r\nI like the Th. The leg on the M could
    be toned down a bit more to make it more consistent with the R or X, for example,
    but I do like it the way it is.\r\n\r\nI feel like the baseline is a little uneven
    in the text samples--the v and w seem to hang down a little too low, for example.\r\n\r\nWhy
    Thai?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-16 03:15:04'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Thanks for the comments. I'll check that baseline once I've printed out some
    larger samples, and see what can be done with the M. I wondered if it was too
    narrow perhaps too?\r\n\r\nHa, I thought Thai would be a big challenge, with all
    sorts of combining marks and interesting shapes. Also because I can speak some
    Thai and know the language more than others aside from English. "
  created: '2009-02-16 08:43:32'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: I'm really enjoying where you've gone with this one... looks good! (was going
    to note the intersection issues but you already know those.)
  created: '2009-02-16 14:44:20'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "I really enjoy. Looks very nice.\r\nMy comments go to:\r\nThe \"i\" terminal
    has a point in the middle (not sure if this is the correct english) that I dont
    find in any other terminal. Error or something that you want?\r\nI also think
    that the \"x\" is to \"broken\" when compared to \"X\".\r\nCongratulations!\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-16 23:50:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "This is quite nice! A rare combination of handsome forms and\r\ncompelling
    flair. The only lc glyph that's not working is the \"t\".\r\nAnd I'd make the
    \"Q\" much more special than that!\r\n\r\nI'll try to find time for a fuller crit.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-17 00:07:22'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Thanks Hrant; I know you're not keen on chirographic stres so it's great
    to hear your positive words! The way you mention the lc as mostly working makes
    me think I need to spend more time on the uc. Would you like a swashy tail on
    the Q? Is it the top of the t that bothers you?\r\n\r\nAntonio, yes, I don't know
    when that point appeared in the tail of the i but it probably needs to get lost.
    Thanks for pointing out the x. I think I've pushed the limbs too far apart.\r\n\r\nI'm
    making the smallcaps a few units heavier and increasing the sidebearings. Also
    I had lots of discretionary ligatures in an old version which need redrafting.\r\n\r\nThanks
    very much guys :) Please do give me your worst!"
  created: '2009-02-17 00:20:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The way you mention the lc as mostly working makes\r\n> me think I need
    to spend more time on the uc.\r\n\r\nActually it's just that I spent more time
    (but not much\r\nyet frankly) looking at the lc, and that's because the lc\r\nis
    95% of text.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-17 00:28:50'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Nice to see a new iteration of Eternal. \r\n\r\nBut you know what, I will
    refrain from posting any crits at this moment, so you can get some valuable ones
    from other poeple than James and me... ;)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-17 15:34:00'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "This is looking pretty good.\r\n\r\nTwo small things jumped out in a first
    look:\r\n\r\n1) Seems there are overlapping paths for the crossbars of t and f,
    and perhaps their ligatures. This is visible at some zoom levels in Acrobat 9
    when the overlapped sections reverse out.\r\n\r\n2) To my eye, optically the S
    and s seem to lean just slightly to the left. Given the traditional Roman forms
    being used, I'd think they should either be balanced, or if they lean, go ever
    so slightly to the right.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-02-17 19:02:29'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Hi\r\nJelmar; yes :) good to see at least you're still following the progress
    of this one.\r\nThomas, also yes. I have quite a lot of overlaps which I should
    have merged before posting the pdf, sorry!\r\nI'll take a look into those Ss and
    push the top over a unit or two. \r\nThat's once I've fixed the x, which I've
    ripped to pieces right now..."
  created: '2009-02-17 19:42:32'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I've changed the top of the t, added some subtle curves to the x and sheared
    the s slightly.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/extras_3638.jpg]"
  created: '2009-02-17 22:23:23'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "'t' is much improved.\r\n\r\n'x' still is very distracting - in fact the
    curves (though handsome in themselves) only add to the torquing that comes from
    the offset not aligning optically.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure about the 'A' crossbar
    not connecting. I fear that reduces the versatility of this font quite a bit.
    ('B' & 'R' are fine on that score, I think.)\r\n\r\nTail of the oldstyle '3' looks
    kinda limp!\r\n\r\nShould the lead-in serif of VXY be flatter (like that of UW)?"
  created: '2009-02-17 22:45:08'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "t...yes since starting on the italic I've been able to work backwards and
    use some of the features there to make the regular work better. That was the original
    t but obviously needed a rethink. Good.\r\n\r\nx...oh dear! I wondered why it
    still looked like the arms were too far apart even though I'd brought them inwards.
    Think I need to come back to this one!\r\n\r\nVXY, I don't know. The serif needed
    tension with the heavy stroke. On those letters the stroke is rotated so the serif
    seemed to fit best rotated too. I'll have another look at that.\r\n\r\nThanks
    for the comments."
  created: '2009-02-17 23:08:13'
- author:
    name: Marcelo Soler
    picture: 115167
  body: "Ben,\r\nyour font is very nice, charming and comfortably legible. \r\n\r\nTexts
    are easy to read and vibrant, so one experiments the delight of reading by \u2013paradoxically\u2013
    ignoring that the type face contributes or, even better, produces that feeling.\r\n\r\nI
    agree with Craig about the crossbar of the uc A (and probably the same for the
    \u2206), and the optical disalignment in the uc/lc x \u2013glyphs which however
    \ I loved, the same as delicious D, R, U, V, W, Y, Z, n, v, w, z and old style
    numerals\u2013; I think the thin stroke gap (very noticeable at a large size)
    should not exceed one quarter of its width.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/X_5508.png]\r\n\r\nI
    also believe like Hrant, that your Q could be more quirky; I enjoy the correction
    made to the t: now it absolutely fits the elegance of its sisters.\r\n\r\nNevertheless,
    your work is really amazing for both brain hemispheres.\r\n\r\nLet us know when
    it's for sale.\r\n\r\n<em>[Just a minor thing, beyond the design: the \xE6/\xC6
    and \u0152/\u0153 are not exactly ligatures in the original meaning of the word,
    but distinct letters; by the other hand, the German \xDF is a real one \u2013long
    s over round s\u2013, with the notable fact that the \u017F (long s) does not
    exist anymore in German.]</em>\r\n\r\n\r\n<strong>MarS</strong>\r\n\r\nPS: Next
    time, merge outlines, please; it's a shame not to enjoy so wonderful creation
    because of bad PDF rendering. BTW, at some scales, Acrobat seems strangely to
    miss some characters, as Ant\xF3nio told before."
  created: '2009-02-18 14:13:35'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I suppose it'd also be helpful to address your questions!\r\n\r\n<em>Specifically
    I\u2019m not sure if the small caps are dark enough.</em>\r\n\r\nThey do look
    very slightly light in color, but they also seem large to me, so adding weight
    might make them too loud. It's kind of a tricky question with this font, because
    your lowercase is (I think) more condensed than your uppercase: should the small
    caps likewise squeeze together like their short brethren or should they retain
    more typical width like their cap antecedents?\r\n\r\n<em>Also, I\u2019m wondering
    about certain shapes: M, B, Q, T, Z, a, f, x, y, Ae and Th.</em>\r\n\r\nB, a,
    and f look great to me. Those other caps aren't easy to find in your text setting
    so they're harder to judge.\r\nMore space between the T-part and the h-part of
    'Th' might be helpful.\r\n\r\n<em>Does the spacing work? What about the smallcap
    spacing?</em>\r\n\r\nLetterspacing looks too tight all around to me (maybe smallcaps
    especially). Difficult to read, though, because I think the wordspacing is too
    large. This in turn is difficult to judge because you have fully justified the
    paragraphs, so maybe that excess space is in part due to the layout stretching
    the lines. But even in the most crammed line, I think the letters looked too bunched
    and the space between words relatively too large. What's a rag-right paragraph
    look like?"
  created: '2009-02-18 14:36:19'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Hi Marcelo, thanks for your positive comments! I'm glad you like my font!
    \r\nI did wonder about the crossbar on A, but initial comments when I posted the
    start of this font were positive about the disconnected stroke, so I left it.
    Perhaps it needs to evolve again.\r\nIt's interesting you like the D as that was
    one that didn't really seem to work for me. What do you like about it in particular?\r\n\r\n>I
    think the thin stroke gap (very noticeable at a large size) should not exceed
    one quarter of its width.\r\n\r\nDo you mean I should reduce the gap in the B
    and R <strong>by</strong> a quarter or <strong>to</strong> a quarter of its current
    width?\r\n\r\nI hadn't thought of this as saleable! I wouldn't have a clue how
    to do that (it's my first font) so when I'm nearer completion I'll need someone
    to help with that I guess :)\r\n\r\nYes, I did wonder if Ae and Oe should count
    as ligatures. I'll move them into the latin extended set and get the sharp s moved
    into the ligatures section! Thanks.\r\n\r\nSorry sorry sorry about the overlap
    problem. I like to keep the outlines un-merged until I'm sure they are finalised!
    \r\n\r\nCan you tell me what outlines are missed in Acrobat (I haven't noticed
    any problems) and I'll check the unicode indexes.\r\n\r\n:)"
  created: '2009-02-18 14:44:31'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Craig, thanks :) I'll set block text in all caps and mixed case rag right
    later on.\r\nI'll have another tweak of the Th. I was playing with a rather nice
    gj ligature as well. Hopefully there is some language where that can be used!\r\nI
    just noticed yesterday the word spacing too. Good to have my thoughts confirmed.
    I'll knock a bit off there.\r\nThanks,"
  created: '2009-02-18 14:50:25'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Be careful with experimental ligatures - once you get going you can really
    generate a lo<strong>gj</strong>am of custom characters to draw. ;-)
  created: '2009-02-18 15:02:46'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "<cite> should the small caps likewise squeeze together like their short brethren
    or should they retain more typical width like their cap antecedents?</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's
    a good question, Craig. Looking at the PDF, I think the small-cap A is definitely
    too wide. I think condensing the small caps might just be what the doctor ordered."
  created: '2009-02-18 15:04:31'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Aah! Yess! Interesting solution: making the small caps more condensed will
    give text more melody I think. I was sticking to the convention of widening the
    proportions for small caps but I think they should be the same proportions as
    the caps or perhaps a bit narrower!\r\n\r\nCraig. Yes. A while back I created
    a lot of useless and ugly ligs which have since been deleted. I promise I'll only
    keep the pretty ones! Yesterday I was puzzling over f with igrave and iacute;
    that's a tough call!"
  created: '2009-02-18 15:12:54'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "This has charm and some nice drawing. I think it has some craft problems,
    though, that need to be resolved to make it work in text. \r\n\r\nThe verticals
    are, I suspect a little too light. And for sure the spacing is too tight for text
    sizes. When I zoom in on the 'in' combo, for example, I see that the space between
    letters is only 80% of the width of the n counter. In Minion, which is a tightly
    spaced text font, the space between two n's (stem-to-stem) is 95% of the width
    of the counter--actually the amount that Walter Tracy recommends in his great
    \"Letters of Credit\".   \r\n\r\nHandling the widths of your mnh is tricky with
    the hooked right foot. I wonder if the h or n are a trifle wide. The m to me is
    definitely cramped. It is hard to judge these things, though, with the letter
    spacing so tight. \r\n\r\nThe light verticals go with the tight spacing to make
    this very good large--though even there it could be a little looser. But the tightness
    really hurts at text size. \r\n\r\n9-12 point is really a different animal than
    big, and what it looks like best on the screen will deceive you about what is
    best small.       "
  created: '2009-02-18 15:15:57'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Hi William, I noticed that as soon as I printed it out the other day! Perhaps
    this is more a display face after all. \r\nI think I've been looking too long
    at it on screen and not enough in print. I think the serifs may also need strengthening
    for small text use. I wasn't intending to do optical sizes so it looks like I
    have a decision to make!\r\n\r\nDo you know the percentage letterspacing vs counter
    width for the display cut of Minion?\r\n\r\nI'll redo the spacing completely.
    It's good to hear there's a bit of a convention as I was trusting just my (amateur)
    judgment so far. I'll leave the hnm as they are until the spacing is fixed.\r\n\r\nThis
    is exactly the feedback I need, many thanks."
  created: '2009-02-18 16:06:40'
- author:
    name: thetophus
    picture: 112453
  body: I think overall it is a great, legible font.  It reads well and I would have
    to say you've done a great job with it!  What plans do you have for distributing
    it once you are done with all the tweaks?
  created: '2009-02-18 16:34:10'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Thanks for the feedback. I'm taking one step at a time :) The next step (after
    getting the spacing and glyphs right) will be learning how hinting works, wondering
    what else needs to go into a font, and finally working out what this font is good
    for and getting advice on marketing and distribution (if it turns out good enough
    to sell). The other thing is that I'd want to have at least the italic ready as
    well before thinking about licensing.\r\nFonting is a very painstaking process.
    I suspect there's still a whole lot of work to do on this!"
  created: '2009-02-18 16:44:45'
- author:
    name: Marcelo Soler
    picture: 115167
  body: "<em>\"I did wonder about the crossbar on A, but initial comments when I posted
    the start of this font were positive about the disconnected stroke, so I left
    it. Perhaps it needs to evolve again.\"</em>\r\n\u2014Nevermind. I just expressed
    my personal taste.\r\n\r\n<em>\"It\u2019s interesting you like the D as that was
    one that didn\u2019t really seem to work for me.\"</em>\r\n\u2014To my eyes, the
    lack of the bottom serif makes it originally exciting; in context, it keeps its
    own balance and elegance. I don't know if you kerned it, but in your sample text,
    the wide space between the D and the o makes me tend to read \"D own\" instead
    of the right word. But probably it's because the entire spacing is very tight
    (BTW, I'd reconsider this).\r\n\r\n<em>\"Do you mean I should reduce the gap in
    the B and R by a quarter or to a quarter of its current width?\"</em>\r\n\u2014I
    was talking about the optical correction in the X/x (the offset between upper
    and lower segments in the thin stroke).\r\n\r\n<em>\"Can you tell me what outlines
    are missed in Acrobat (I haven\u2019t noticed any problems) and I\u2019ll check
    the unicode indexes.\"</em>\r\n\u2014I guess it is neither your PDF nor your font
    indexes, but a random bug in Adobe Reader rendering. Mac OSX Preview hasn't that
    problem.\r\n\r\nIf you don't want to sell Eternal, you probably wanted to distribute
    it among a limited scope of supporters ;-)\r\n\r\n<strong>MarS</strong>"
  created: '2009-02-18 19:07:17'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I really agree that the X thin stroke offset is much too large.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-02-18 20:30:31'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "> If you don\u2019t want to sell Eternal, you probably wanted to distribute
    it among a limited scope of supporters ;-)\r\n\r\n:)\r\nYes, why not?! Do other
    people here do that?\r\n\r\nI was considering joining up all the disconnected
    shapes (ABR) as alternates. That would cater for different tastes.\r\n\r\nHow's
    this x?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/extras_5170.jpg]"
  created: '2009-02-18 21:47:00'
- author:
    name: Marcelo Soler
    picture: 115167
  body: "I feel the curvy stroke is somehow distracting...\r\nLook at that simple
    experiment (the upmost image is your original):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/extra_5460.png]\r\nProbably
    it is just matter of slightly shifting the almost linear stroke:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/X_5118.png]\r\n(Sorry,
    don't wanna be annoying on this)\r\n\r\n<strong>MarS</strong>"
  created: '2009-02-18 23:08:14'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Interesting. I did a little experiment measuring glyphs in pdfs...\r\n\r\nI've
    compared the letterspacing with the counterspacing for a handful of fonts as William
    noted above.\r\n\r\nThe tightest spacing is in Fedra Serif Display, where the
    space between two n's is just 63% of the space between the n's legs. Palatino
    comes in next at 72%.\r\n\r\nThe loosest spacing is in Ensched\xE9 Collis, which
    is 102%.\r\nMelior LT comes in at 100%\r\n\r\nA modern display font (Guardian
    Egyptian Display) turned out at 77% and fonts with condensed proportions seemed
    to have wider spacing: Newlyn's Verona and Joanna MT had 91 and 93%\r\n\r\nFonts
    like Type Together's Karmina, Underware's Dolly, ITC Stone Serif, and Guardian
    Egyptian Text had ratios of 85-87%.\r\n\r\nThe median was 89%. Fedra Serif text,
    FF Olsen and Utopia have this ratio.\r\n\r\n<strong>Conclusion:</strong>\r\nFor
    a text size, I think I'll aim for a 90% ratio of spacing to counterspace,  or
    another 20 units on each side of my n, and see how that looks as a starting point.
    Putting in the extra space means the serifs look stumpy and will need lengthening.
    \r\n\r\nI'll keep developing the existing font as a display cut and come to the
    text size afterwards (if I don't grow tired of beziers!)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-18 23:35:15'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Thanks Marcelo; I'll try that. My reason for the curves was that the other
    letters which I like best have slight curves and modulations in them and the wxyz
    looked a bit flat and mechanical for a humanist-influenced font. I might try also
    just one curve continuing on both arms rather than an opposite curve on each arm.
    I'm finding this silly letter really hard, just like o was initially for me. \r\n\r\nIt's
    funny because they're essentially very simple shapes and you wouldn't imagine
    much could go wrong with them! Oh, how many things about type design seem so simple
    before you start actually developing a font! :)"
  created: '2009-02-18 23:44:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Ben, I think what works best as far as letter spacing is also affected by
    how thick the stems are, and how wide the font is overall, as well as the serifs--and
    the intended size of use. \r\n\r\nOne way to proceed is to print it out at intended
    size, and then try tracking it out and in, and see what works best. Because the
    different factors interact in ways that nobody fully understands, you just need
    to try variations and use your eyes any your own personal judgment. This is the
    approach Briem recommends on his web site, and I think it's right. \r\n\r\nI would
    also recommend comparing thickness of stem, normalized for x height, with other
    faces you admire, and also play with this in your own font, with a limited set
    of letters, and in print-out look also at the affect on letter spacing.  \r\n\r\nHow
    wide your n and o are, the weight of their strokes, and their spacing is a lot
    of the 'DNA' of your font, so I agree with Tracy that it is worth taking time
    over to make sure you are happy with it. "
  created: '2009-02-19 01:07:39'
- author:
    name: Marcelo Soler
    picture: 115167
  body: "Got it!\r\nThe problem with the initial PDF is that there are some isolated
    outlines  embedded among the text \u2013I mean, outlined text, instead of the
    font itself\u2013 that cause Reader renders unexpectedly; it is probably related
    to overlapping unmerged outlines within the font.\r\nI apologize myself for distracting
    from the core point, but I thought it is worth to learn a bit from \u201Cartifacts\u201D.\r\nThanks,\r\n<strong>MarS</strong>"
  created: '2009-02-19 01:16:56'
- author:
    name: merkri
  body: "<em>The median was 89%. Fedra Serif text, FF Olsen and Utopia have this ratio.\r\n\r\nFor
    a text size, I think I\u2019ll aim for a 90% ratio of spacing to counterspace,
    or another 20 units on each side of my n, and see how that looks as a starting
    point. Putting in the extra space means the serifs look stumpy and will need lengthening.\r\n\r\nI\u2019ll
    keep developing the existing font as a display cut and come to the text size afterwards
    (if I don\u2019t grow tired of beziers!)</em>\r\n\r\nAs some were saying in forums
    elsewhere (about other fonts/types), if you intend to develop this as a text face,
    I wouldn't be afraid to lean a bit towards tighter spacing. \r\n\r\nI had the
    opposite reaction in terms of spacing from your sample: that if anything the spacing
    was too loose. I think there was some unevenness or kerning work to be done with
    the spacing, but I wasn't left with a global impression of it being too loose.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not sure what to say about the x. I like the curvature, but can't decide if I
    like it more than the more linear route."
  created: '2009-02-19 02:45:39'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>I had the opposite reaction in terms of spacing from your sample: that
    if anything the spacing was too loose. I think there was some unevenness or kerning
    work to be done with the spacing, but I wasn\u2019t left with a global impression
    of it being too loose.</em>\r\n\r\nSo, first you find the spacing too loose, and
    then you wasn't left with the impression of it being too loose? ;)\r\n  \r\nAt
    any rate, a text face will pretty much always need looser spacing than a display
    face. So since this face was -- as far as I know -- intented for text, the spacing
    shouldn't be too tight. I think it might either be just right or slightly too
    tight as it is right now (I'm talking about a few units here). But I'm not an
    expert on spacing, really. :)"
  created: '2009-02-19 03:53:53'
- author:
    name: merkri
  body: "<em>So, first you find the spacing too loose, and then you wasn\u2019t left
    with the impression of it being too loose? ;)</em>\r\n\r\nSigh...it's been a long
    day. So I'm losing my capacity for language.\r\n\r\n\r\n<em>At any rate, a text
    face will pretty much always need looser spacing than a display face.</em> \r\n\r\nI
    guess there's text and then there's text. Who knows? It's a subjective thing in
    the end. I like text tighter--I think if it's spaced too much, you lose a certain
    amount of \"chunking\".\r\n\r\nI agree with you, though, in that it's just about
    right now overall, with a little bit of wiggle room."
  created: '2009-02-19 05:12:29'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: very nice!
  created: '2009-02-19 05:15:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> It\u2019s a subjective thing in the end.\r\n\r\nYou could say it's subjective
    in the display realm* but when it comes to text you can't let the counters overpower
    the interletter space. Based on the current preference for tight display setting,
    it's entirely fair to say \"text fonts need to be tighter than display fonts\".\r\n\r\n*
    One could imagine a future where people prefer loose titling.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-19 05:42:18'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: i often feel that when i read books from the 60's (mostly space opera set
    in Times or Plantin) they are set quite tight, tighter than book today. is that
    often the case?
  created: '2009-02-19 06:35:45'
- author:
    name: merkri
  body: "<em>but when it comes to text you can\u2019t let the counters overpower the
    interletter space</em>\r\n\r\nRight--I see what you're saying with that. I guess
    the issue for me was that, <em>overall</em>, the spacing seemed about right, but
    there's some unevenness--some of it seemed too tight, but other areas seemed a
    bit too loose (e.g., \"Do\" and \"ow\", as Marcelo points out). Because the more
    spaced pairs were dragging my gaze, the idea of increasing the spacing equally
    throughout didn't quite seem right to me--maybe redistributing or something. "
  created: '2009-02-19 06:43:18'
- author:
    name: merkri
  body: "<em>i often feel that when i read books from the 60\u2019s (mostly space
    opera set in Times or Plantin) they are set quite tight, tighter than book today.
    is that often the case?</em>\r\n\r\nI don't know. That's an interesting question.
    I pulled a pseudorandom sample of books off my shelf. I first, I thought no, but
    comparing them, the older books do look a little tighter."
  created: '2009-02-19 06:48:31'
- author:
    name: merkri
  body: "<em>i often feel that when i read books from the 60\u2019s (mostly space
    opera set in Times or Plantin) they are set quite tight, tighter than book today.
    is that often the case?</em>\r\n\r\nI don't know. That's an interesting question.
    I pulled a pseudorandom sample of books off my shelf. I first, I thought no, but
    comparing them, the older books do look a little tighter."
  created: '2009-02-19 06:48:41'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "> it\u2019s entirely fair to say \u201Ctext fonts need to be tighter than
    display fonts\u201D.\r\n\r\nHrant, do you mean looser?\r\n\r\nI guess the spacing
    ended up looking tight because I've read a lot of Plantin and Palatino!\r\n\r\nThis
    seems more subjective than I thought. I think what I'll do next is print out at
    various sizes up to say 144pt, play with the tracking and see which size the font
    shines best at, then optimise the spacing and stem widths for that. I'll have
    to trust my eye in the end.\r\n\r\nWilliam, yes, I'll look at stem widths too,
    for the same set of fonts. \r\n\r\nI haven't done any kerning yet.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-19 10:09:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Note that Palatino is really a display face; Aldus is its text companion
    and--just checking--Aldus has wider letter spacing.\r\n\r\nThe only real rule
    here is that you need to look at your design in the final intended size and medium
    (print, computer screen, phone). Then it's your font, you decide. And next of
    course customers decide if they want it. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-19 13:43:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ">> it\u2019s entirely fair to say \u201Ctext fonts need to be tighter than
    display fonts\u201D.\r\n\r\n> Hrant, do you mean looser?\r\n\r\nYes!! :-/  Sorry.\r\n\r\n>
    Palatino is really a display face\r\n\r\nIndeed. A very good point, usually lost.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-19 15:59:17'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I hadn't realised Palatino was a display font, given its prolific (mis)use,
    and thought the other fonts in that series were for titling (E.g. Sistina/Michelangelo).
    \r\n\r\nFor a display font, Palatino makes a really comfortable read for longer
    text.\r\n\r\nI'll get back to the spacing now..."
  created: '2009-02-19 20:10:15'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Titling and display are kind of overlapping categories. Michelangelo and
    Sistina are caps-only. It''s tricky identifying Palatino in text, because Aldus
    has forms so similar, you can mistake it for Palatino. It is subtly but decisively
    changed for text. '
  created: '2009-02-19 22:38:20'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I find the shape of the a in Palatino very distinctive. Will certainly keep
    an eye out for Aldus though now!\r\n\r\nTalking of stroke offset, what about the
    8? You can also see in the pdf (the bigger offset is in the lining figures and
    the narrow offset in the oldstyle ones).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/88_6164.jpg]\r\n\r\nIs
    it falling right slightly or is that me?"
  created: '2009-02-19 22:50:03'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I came up with a less delicate solution to the tail of y. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/yalt_4315.jpg]\r\n\r\nIncreasing
    the spacing has made me think the extenders need to be longer, is that also what
    happens in text sizes?"
  created: '2009-02-19 23:17:27'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Hey Ben, I'm really chiming in late!\r\nI like this a lot. It feels very
    friendly and charming but serious and down-to-earth at the same time, and it seems
    to read quite fluidly, although I agree it is a bit tight.\r\n\r\nFWIW (add salt),
    the main thing I'm wondering about is your mixture of \"hard/determined\" and
    \"soft/flowing\" features, especially apparent in the terminals (like in the two
    versions of the \"y\" you just posted).\r\nJust observing: The terminals that
    you have on the foot of the \"a\", as well as the right sides of hmn etc., feel
    very soft and bring a nicely flowing feel to this; in contrast, the \"harder\"
    terminals on the top of the \"a\", the \"c\" and the \"s\" seem quite determined
    and I'm not quite sure how they tie in with the softer, maybe more calligraphic
    model outlined in other terminals/serifs.\r\n\r\nI like your \"A\" a lot \u2013
    especially the non-connecting crossbar, which connects nicely (and unexpectedly)
    with the tail of the \"g\". I'm not so sure about the right side foot serif; it
    looks beautiful (also in keeping with the \"soft/flowing\" theme), but to my eyes
    it makes that diagonal look like it's slanting out a bit (there's a similar thing
    happening in the \"Y\" and \"V\"). Maybe pull the diagonal back a bit?\r\nI'm
    a bit sad your \"\xC6\" doesn't seem to echo that beautiful \"A\" shape that much.
    It looks like it's based on a flat-topped \"A\"; also the crossbar not connecting
    on the other side looks a bit distracting to me. But maybe that's just me!\r\nOh,
    and might the \"\u0152\" clog?\r\n\r\nSome of your ligs seem a bit too tight (the
    \"ffi\" jumps out in \"efficient\" on p. 3).\r\n\r\nBTW, great to see a cap eszett
    in here! Love the shape. There seems to be something slightly wonky about its
    contrast, but I can't pinpoint it exactly. :-/\r\n\r\nAnyway \u2013 this is beautiful.
    I'm looking forward to see it grow even more."
  created: '2009-02-20 00:25:38'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Har, thanks Nina ;)\r\nInteresting about the hard/soft tension. The first
    version of y seemed always not quite strong enough at the base, a bit weedy, and
    I couldn't quite get it to work in my opinion. Maybe it just needed to swell more,
    will keep going anyway with that one.\r\n\r\nThe toes on adhiklmnu always wanted
    to be curly and I have considered making them more normal but they are still resisting,
    happily. I think with the t and y, I've been influenced by the italic which you
    can probably find an earlier version of on the previous Eternal thread. I found
    working backwards from that helped clarify that this looked good with a pen influence,
    as well as helping out with the stress and letter skeletons. I quite like the
    unexpected dynamic that's created between the chocolatey serifs, cursive toes
    and occasional abrupt terminals.\r\n\r\nYes, A looks too wide, thanks for clarifying
    that as it was in the back of my mind. I need to do something more exciting with
    its apex as well. I softened the heavy stroke of v with a bit of a curve so that
    might transpose onto the A, or not...\r\n\r\nDo you think \xC6 needs to be based
    on the triangular A rather than on the square A and E equally? I'll experiment
    with it anyway. \u0152 is a horrible glyph I agree. I need to decide whether it's
    an O coming out of an E or an E coming out of an O. There's far too much black
    in the corners.\r\n\r\nThe ligs will be loosened.\r\n\r\nAnd I'm glad you like
    the cap eszett. Again, I haven't really put as much time into that one yet so
    it needs some polishing. Wonky, yes :)\r\n\r\nThank you for your positive crit!"
  created: '2009-02-20 00:45:32'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>The first version of y seemed always not quite strong enough at the
    base, a bit weedy, and I couldn\u2019t quite get it to work in my opinion. Maybe
    it just needed to swell more, will keep going anyway with that one.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    might as well just jump in again :P\r\n\r\nI like that <strong>y</strong> experiment.
    Actually prefer it over the old one I think.\r\nI've always thought that the old
    one was probably too fiddly and maybe too light as well. I quickly looked up what
    I commented about the <strong>y</strong> in the previous thread:\r\n\r\n<em>\"[..]And
    the bottom terminal could use a little love, maybe an increase of weight, I don\u2019t
    know exactly.\"\r\n--\r\n\"[..] But I agree the terminal might be a bit too fiddly.
    One thing that would help, is making the right stroke plus tail a bit heavier.
    It looks too light, eventhough it\u2019s probably of the same weight as your typeface\u2019s
    lightest parts.\"</em>\r\n\r\nSo I think that your new solution might be the best,
    although I would still experiment with it a little. But I think the overall shape
    of the terminal is the way to go. :)\r\n\r\nRegarding the <strong>8</strong> you
    posted, for me they are actually leaning to the left, something I think I also
    posted in the old thead (if my memory serves me well). So that one still needs
    a bit of tinkering. Going over the PDF, the cap <strong>S</strong> also leans
    slightly to the left.\r\n\r\nFor more comments I will have to take a look at the
    PDF a bit better at a later moment. :) But it is really shaping up very nicely!"
  created: '2009-02-20 04:06:09'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Yes, thanks Jelmar, I remembered what you'd said about the y being too fiddly
    and light. I'm experimenting still, that was just a two-minute experiment.\r\n\r\nThe
    8 now looks more left-leaning to me too.\r\n\r\nFiddle faddle."
  created: '2009-02-20 09:42:17'
- author:
    name: Marcelo Soler
    picture: 115167
  body: "I wonder if the 8 is suffering some stroke edema in its left ascending stroke
    (highlighted below) that makes it leans to the left.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/eight_4521.jpg]\r\nActually,
    it should be lighter than the opposite descending stroke to the right. Am I right?\r\n\r\n<strong>MarS</strong>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-20 18:59:04'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "On the 8: This may be stylistic choice on your part, rather than an error,
    but for what it's worth I want to see the curves come into the middle of the letter
    much more close to horizontal. Even where the intersection is deliberately offset,
    I prefer that there still is the sense of a plausible crossing over of continuous
    curves. This is Georgia's offset 8 (with curves I drew on top:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_3822.gif]"
  created: '2009-02-20 20:07:23'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Marcelo, I'm not sure I understand 'stroke edema'. Do you think the strokes
    you highlighted should be thinner/stress lower?\r\n\r\nCraig, I don't much like
    Goergia, but you think the stroke should join closer? I felt with a nonvertical
    stress the intersection couldn't be very horizontal...but it still could be less
    offset. Difficult to design the numerals, unfortunately :)\r\n\r\nI've just looked
    at my 8 again and suddenly I'm more confused because it's looking right-leaning
    again. Why does it seem different each time I look at it?"
  created: '2009-02-21 01:17:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "OK, I've finally had time to take a closer look!\r\n\r\nFirst, some macro
    stuff:\r\n- As I said before (and others did too) there's a very satisfying balance
    between utility and flair; things like the \"M\" might seem capricious, but I
    think that's the right spirit.\r\n- I'd say this is shooting for 10 point (with
    well-balanced ascenders vs descenders). As such, the color is fine, but the spacing
    is too tight overall (although it's too uneven to be entirely sure).\r\n- I actually
    think the smallcaps proportions are fine.\r\n- I would drop the \"l\" from the
    name!\r\n- Stuff leaning one way one day and another way another day? That means
    it's pretty much balanced.  :-)\r\n\r\nMicro stuff:\r\n- The first point in macro
    above notwithstanding, I agree with the general opinion that the \"A\" is a bit
    much; same with the \"U\".\r\n- The \"G\" is charming, but perhaps a bit out of
    character.\r\n- The descender of the \"J\" is out of character (more below).\r\n-
    As I said about the \"Q\", give it some oomph!\r\n- The \"f\" could be a bit braver;
    if you loosen the spacing you'll have more room for that. In any case do lengthen
    the rightward foot serif.\r\n- The gap at the bottom of the \"g\" is apologetic;
    I'd make it larger.\r\n- The descender of the \"j\" is out of character (more
    below).\r\n- As with the \"f\", I'd push the rightward foot serif out, perhaps
    a good deal.\r\n- I agree that the \"s\" (and \"S\") have recoiling heads, but
    somehow I like it!\r\n- The new \"t\" is great.\r\n- The \"w\" is very nice.\r\n-
    I don't get all the hubbub about the \"x\" - I think for text it's dandy.\r\n-
    The path you've taken with the \"y\" is pretty much exactly what happened to me
    with Patria! The new one is much better, although I think you have room to make
    the terminal a little bit more aggressive. And you can use that terminal in the
    UC \"J\", and possibly in the lc \"j\" as well.\r\n- In the lining numerals, the
    zero is way too square, and the bowl of the \"6\" is too large.\r\n- In the OS
    numerals, the \"3\" is totally wonky, and the \"6\" again too portly. And most
    of all, you'll need to pull the zero away from the lc \"o\"; this is a classic
    conundrum, with various possible solutions: a totally circular ring-like form
    (yuk), flipped stroke contrast (thick horizontals and thin verticals - seems strange
    but make sense and can look great) or all the weight on either the left or the
    right stroke (classy, and can work out great).\r\n- The \"8\": I personally like
    them with staggered joins.\r\n- Some other stuff: the \"@\" is a bit light, and
    I'd make the inside \"a\" upright; the curly braces need more contrast; the eszet
    is too closed at the bottom; I love seeing an \"Ae\" and \"Oe\" (I had that idea
    years ago, then found out that Gary Munch had it way before me, and probably others
    before him as well) but the bottom of the join of the \"Ae\" is malformed; also,
    the joins in the \"OE\" are too dark.\r\n\r\nIn terms of selling this: I think
    you can. But the scene <em>is</em> pretty crowded, so you might try the freemium
    marketing model: give away the roman, and charge for all the other styles.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-21 03:43:40'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Hrant, thank you for so much detail. \r\nI'll have a play with the G J and
    j. It won't be straightforward transposing the new y's terminal onto those Js
    due to the angle of the y. I can't quite see how it might work yet.\r\n\r\nI've
    had a go at N, A and G. Here you can see the old and new versions of N and G (old
    are the first N and G). \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/NAGGING_4714.jpg]\r\n\r\nThe
    G had rather too vertical contrast so that's corrected, the crossbar is a tad
    lower, the curve comes up rather than flattening out. The N had its left foot
    serif strengthened so that the head serif could be more sure of itself. There
    is a slight curve in the diagonal stroke of the A and N. I brought the right foot
    of A in and the right foot of M out. The traps on M and N are slightly wider.
    Think the M and N could do with slightly heavier strokes.\r\n\r\nWell there's
    a lot of other recommendations to look back through and try out, it will take
    some time :) "
  created: '2009-02-21 14:34:23'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "The N looks narrow to me. \r\n\r\nI like the new lifting of the curve at
    the bottom of G very much. I think you could pull the curve out at the letter's
    lower left side: it looks a bit like it's going to fall leftwards onto its back.
    (Review C on that, too.) Maybe just lower the extrema points on the left side?\r\n\r\nDoes
    the curly toe of M start a little too high?\r\n\r\nYour T, by the way, almost
    looks like a bent metal sort to me. "
  created: '2009-02-21 15:15:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think the new \"G\" is good.\r\n\r\ny - j- J: Below is how I did it. But
    as you can see the \"j\" doesn't follow.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/yjJ_term_4688.gif]\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-21 15:24:52'
- author:
    name: Marcelo Soler
    picture: 115167
  body: "I aggree your new G is pretty and very personal. Really nice, a delicacy.\r\n\r\n\"Eterna\"
    certainly sounds much stronger than \"Eternal\" to my ears.\r\n\r\nAbout my previous
    comment, let me explain my perception. Below is an Adobe Minion numeral 8 low
    story deconstucted; I placed a jpg of your 8 in the background. Obviously both
    are quite different, but nevetheless they are worth to show my subjective point
    of view.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/8_6737.png]\r\nI perceive that,
    in comparison, the right side stroke of your 8 is a bit light (stenosis) where
    the pen changes its right-down direction (and before, from the center of the figure)
    to the left-down; by the other side, immediatly after going left-up in the left
    side, it is too heavy (edema), the same way as when it reaches the crossing ponint.\r\nIt
    is more noticeable when tested against Palatino's 8:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/palatin_3551.png]\r\nEven
    when the descending \"spine\" \u2013I assume, by the closing offset, it is built
    like a sort of extended S\u2013 is similar for both fonts, once you reach the
    bottom, the stroke suddenly gets too much weight, something that doesn't happen
    in the top story, where weights are balanced almost the same way.\r\nBesides,
    you can notice the way Zapf solved the visual trend of leaning to the left: it
    seems like the 8 is slightly \"slanted\" to the right.\r\nProbably those are subtle
    questions that involve my impoverished vision and stereotyped education, so I
    only hope I had clarified what I wanted to say \u2013wrong or right\u2013 before.\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\n<strong>MarS</strong>\r\n\r\nPS:
    I'm sorry for my entangled language."
  created: '2009-02-21 18:08:14'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Wow, I think the new "A" is great! It seems to have better balance, and looks
    quite sexy.
  created: '2009-02-21 19:00:42'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Craig, yes the N is looking a bit narrow. I have redone the T crossbar as
    the whole thing looked bent and stupid. The left side of the G is high, like the
    right side of the D. I hope that's not ugly like the c or e in Rotis. \r\n\r\nThanks
    Hrant, useful. I don't think I can follow your j as I've juse removed that kind
    of terminal from y. Still, the J might work.\r\n\r\nMarcelo and Nina, thanks :)"
  created: '2009-02-21 20:01:15'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Here goes:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/jy_5822.jpg]\r\noriginal
    j first. Three variations.\r\nOriginal y tail made heavier on the right. Think
    I prefer the new y (on the left)\r\nOh, and I raised the tittle of the i and j
    as with the wider spacing the dots looked too close."
  created: '2009-02-22 17:47:00'
- author:
    name: Marcelo Soler
    picture: 115167
  body: "Ben,\r\nat a very first sight, and obbeying to my feelings, I like the jy
    couple the most (the fourth j and the first y).\r\nCharming.\r\n\r\n<strong>MarS</strong>"
  created: '2009-02-22 18:03:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Between the 2nd and 4th \"j\"s, although of itself I like the 2nd better
    (with a stronger terminal however), the 4th seems more in character with the rest
    of the font. However you might find that to both amplify/differentiate the character
    of the \"j\" and reduce descender touching issues, the 3rd might actually win
    - you won't know until you nail down your spacing 90%. At least that's what happened
    to me with Patria.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-22 18:21:55'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: 'Just throwing this in (with salt as usual), as I''m currently in "tittle
    vision mode": Might yours be off to the left by a hair? Combined with the natural
    leftward "motion" of the "j", that seems to make the entire glyph pull to the
    left (to my eyes).'
  created: '2009-02-22 18:36:36'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: 'That''s exactly what I thought: somewhere between 2 and 4. I''ll keep all
    four for now, get the spacing fixed and try out in text.'
  created: '2009-02-22 18:38:29'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: oldstyle zero with the stress turned so it doesn't look like letter o:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/zero_3482.jpg]
  created: '2009-02-22 18:54:53'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I like those zeros! (The overshoot looks too great on top, though.)
  created: '2009-02-22 19:07:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Very nice zero!\r\n(BTW, are those two the same? My eyes might be playing
    tricks on me.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-22 19:17:31'
- author:
    name: buddhaboy
    picture: 112340
  body: "This is looking very nice indeed... I agree on upper A - this face has plenty
    of character, without loosing it's utility. O love the zeros too... can't comment
    any more, as I simply don't feel qualified!\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-22 19:49:49'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Hm, yes they're the same :>\r\n\r\nSpacing is now more even, but still probably
    shows I'm not very clued up about these things. Will post a new pdf soon.\r\n\r\nI
    realised I had put (bad) kerning on before, so I've reset the lot and just kerned
    the lowercase yo/go/ke to start with. Think I'd overdone it a bit."
  created: '2009-02-22 20:20:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Be warned, spacing -being on an abstract level, unlike glyph bodies- is something
    that third-parties cannot really help you with (beyond general observations).
    Some people are naturally better at it than others, and those who have difficulty
    can feel stuck or exasperated. The \"good news\" is that more users don't notice
    poor spacing.  :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-22 21:23:41'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Hrant and Marcelo, does this Q satisfy your tastes?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Q_3446.jpg]"
  created: '2009-02-22 21:24:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Much better!\r\nTry it with a hefty serif too.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-22 21:40:58'
- author:
    name: Marcelo Soler
    picture: 115167
  body: "<em>\"...does this Q satisfy your tastes?\"</em>\r\nAs quirky as I like it!
    :-)\r\nThough for me is optimal as is, I'm not sure about the orthodoxy of the
    long tail (after all, I asked for heterodoxy). I would try with a y alike serif
    as an option.\r\nBTW, the new y works finely in context, as well.\r\nThe i and
    the k are impressive.\r\n\r\nYour old style turned-stress zero is a clever solution,
    too. I wonder why it happens the strange effect \u2013pointed by Hrant\u2013 that
    makes my short term memory feels this 00 are two different figures. Funny.\r\n\r\nI
    bet on the fourth j ;-)\r\n\r\n<strong>MarS</strong>"
  created: '2009-02-22 22:08:17'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Here you can see five different versions. The original is on the left. I've
    gone off that completely.\r\nThe second one is the new taily one. I pulled it
    in a bit.\r\nThird is Marcelo's suggestion, which works ok. It reminds me of another
    font, not sure which.\r\nFourth and fifth I tried putting on a serif, and I think
    the final one works better.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Qs_4556.jpg]\r\nMy
    favourite shapes are 2 and 3, but will try them all in running text later to see
    which look best."
  created: '2009-02-22 22:55:27'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Hrant, above you say \r\n- The descender of the \u201Cj\u201D is out of character
    (more below).\r\n- As with the \u201Cf\u201D, I\u2019d push the rightward foot
    serif out, perhaps a good deal.\r\n- I agree that the \u201Cs\u201D (and \u201CS\u201D)
    have recoiling heads, but somehow I like it!\r\n\r\nWhich foot serif aside from
    f needs to be pushed out?"
  created: '2009-02-22 23:15:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The 3rd \"Q\" is pretty cool, but I'm thinking firming\r\nup the 2nd one's
    terminal would make it the best.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-22 23:45:08'
- author:
    name: Marcelo Soler
    picture: 115167
  body: "To my taste, the third Q is the best. The most original, as well (let me
    know which font you say it reminds you). I'd like to see it working in text. Otherwise,
    Hrant: you're right.\r\n\r\n<strong>MarS</strong>"
  created: '2009-02-23 13:14:23'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I agree with Marcelo.
  created: '2009-02-23 13:23:06'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I like the 2nd 'j' and the first 'y' the best (or the one you used in Quirky).
    Although it looks like the 'y' might have become a bit too heavy now (look at
    'ky').\r\n\r\nThe left arm of the 'y' might extend a bit too far to the left as
    well (making the v-shaped part of the 'y' a bit on the wide side). I like the
    second Q the most."
  created: '2009-02-24 18:21:17'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: By the way, mark me down as one vote <em>against</em> "Eterna."
  created: '2009-02-24 18:51:06'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "OK, so here's a sneak preview of the italic and black versions. They're far
    from finished but hopefully will give some ideas about solving problems across
    the different weights. E.g. the stress seems to need to be less angled in the
    black weight, and the stroke modulation may or may not be possible with the current
    conception of the black. \r\n\r\nThe lower terminals of the italic descenders
    were the basis of the original j that Hrant thought didn't fit.\r\n\r\nThe new
    top of the regular t has been included in the italic and black too.\r\n\r\nThe
    black letters on the glyph list have been tweaked; the grey ones remain the same
    as on the previous pdf. \r\n\r\nYou see in the word 'Quetzalcoatl' that the roman
    and italic seem to fit quite nicely together?\r\n\r\nI widened the B, changed
    the stem of D, strengthened the terminals on E and F, corrected the stress on
    P and R, re-did the upper right serif on T, straightened U's verticals. I added
    a slight curve to the ending of the curly toes on hijklmntu. I put in an alpha.
    \r\n\r\nv and y are looking slightly wide.\r\n\r\nPlease comment on the italic
    lc.\r\n\r\nNina, do you think the eszetts work better now? And what about the
    AE?? :S\r\n\r\nStill not finished playing with the spacing and still have those
    grey glyphs to finish before posting a block of text with variable tracking for
    crit, haven't forgotten that!\r\n\r\nLooks like all my diacritics have fallen
    out of place with the sidebearing changes: quite easy to fix though.\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    seeing the interaction of the different weights will help us decide if this is
    an Eternal or an Eterna.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-25 00:51:51'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Ben, sadly I don't have the time for in-depth feed-back today :-(  But let
    me say \r\nI think this looks really promising, and fun. Nice work.\r\n\r\nSome
    really quick impressions (add more salt than usual because I'm only just having
    my morning coffee):\r\n\r\nI still think the left diagonals of \"V\" and \"Y\"
    are optically slanting out a tiny hair, much like the \"A\" was before. Looking
    at \"Shadow\" on page 2, the same may be true for the lc \"w\"?\r\n\r\nThe (italic?)
    ampersand might have a stronger pen influence than your alphabetic glyphs; especially
    the top, and the top-right terminal, may seem a hair too \"calligraphic\".\r\n\r\nRe
    the cap eszett, I would try thinning the top. Check out <a href=\"http://www.signographie.de/cms/front_content.php?idart=244\">this
    masthead</a> of a German newspaper (although I think the bottom-right terminal
    of your cap eszett, as well as its overall shape and proportions, works perfectly,
    and possibly better than the linked image). I believe there are a couple of PDFs
    regarding cap eszett design linked to on that page, but I can't seem to find them
    right now (sorry!)."
  created: '2009-02-25 06:01:43'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "My few impressions:\r\n\r\nBlack weight is fun and coming along nicely. Black
    italic 'a', with its fat bowl hanging under a raised counter, looks a little cartoony
    and out-of-character for the face. Black 't', both italic and roman, also looks
    fat and kind of sloppy relative to the other black letters; maybe that bulging
    diagonal on the NW is too pneumatic. Black 'B' could be widened to take some pressure
    off those narrow counters. The thins on black 'N' aren't working - I think maybe
    they're just too thin. (Compare to the 'U' just before them in BUNNY.)\r\n\r\nItalic
    is also coming along nicely. (Really, this whole project is!) Italic 'z' is beautiful.
    Since the roman has some \"flowiness\" to it (with the curling toes of hmn etc.),
    perhaps you should allow yourself some more cursive features in the italic. The
    lead-in serif of italic letters like mnru etc. might be more curly as a counterpart
    to the toes, for example. You could do a 'p' with an intersection instead of a
    serif at the top. You could do something more interesting with the italic 'y'.
    I'd like to see italic 'k''s arm experimented with - maybe something that curves
    away from the main stroke of the letter instead of towards it?\r\n\r\nI do hope
    you'll include a connected-crossbar 'A' alternate.\r\n\r\nAll of your sevens look
    like the bottom terminal is way left of what I'd expect relative to the top horizontal,
    but that may be a stylistic decision rather than a mistake.\r\n\r\nMaybe make
    the crossing over of strokes on your alpha more apparent, to distinguish it from
    an italic 'a'?\r\n\r\nHope that helps!"
  created: '2009-02-25 22:17:18'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Thanks guys; I'll have a look at the Eszett and maybe bring the top right
    back down and a little beaky corner. About the italic ampersand you are right,
    it does look a little too soft and roundy for the other characters.\r\nThe regular
    vwxy have been really trick in this font as I wanted the initial curve, followed
    by the almost-straight diagonal, a sharp curve at the apex and a flaring to the
    tops. I haven't quite got there with the UC and perhaps the lc w needs a bit more
    tinkering.\r\nThe black is just an initial concept, not fully clear yet and very
    unpolished. I agree about the a looking cartoony. I think it's more to do with
    the curvy stem as the bowl could be ok if the counter were a tiny bit lower. The
    t looks like someone sat on it. I think it needs to be much taller and more elegant.
    Yes! B can be wider. I didn't think of that as I wanted to keep the curves tight
    and the general shapes quite condensed. I'll try wider! Black S looks a bit light
    too, not sure how to make it darker without the terminals crashing into the spine.
    N needs a better solution.\r\nItalic. I really enjoyed making the shapes. The
    lead-in serifs could stand being longer, perhaps curlier but I don't want it to
    end up looking cute or twiddly. I'm not happy with k or y, so it's interesting
    you recommend changing their structure. I'll post some alternatives. An intersection
    on the p...like Baskerville italic you mean?\r\nYou convinced me about the connected-crossbar
    alternates. Will do ABR. \r\nOn the roman, I don't like the current tail of the
    j and am having another go. This shows the evolution of j:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/j_5569.jpg]\r\nThe
    last one strikes me as a nice fit for the other glyphs, though I might have to
    smooth the inner corner slightly more.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/jelly_3595.jpg]\r\nNina,
    do the tittles look right? :>\r\nWondering about if the 3 needs a foot serif too.
    Not sure where I'm going with the OS numerals as I quite wanted the dangly 3 and
    5 but the intention was 'dynamic' not 'totally wonky' ;)\r\nI think the sevens
    look like that because they're quite narrow. I like them so far but they might
    become uncomfortable for long periods."
  created: '2009-02-25 23:54:28'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>I\u2019ll have a look at the Eszett and maybe bring the top right back
    down and a little beaky corner. About the italic ampersand you are right, it does
    look a little too soft and roundy</em>\r\nI was mostly talking about contrast
    in both cases. Re the cap eszett: I actually think this is one of the best I've
    seen,* shape-wise. I wouldn't necessarily change the concept; it's mostly that
    the weight of the upper horizontal stroke seems off (I'd try to move the inner
    contour up on the horizontal segment). Maybe if you fix that it'll work just great.\r\n*
    Although of course nobody knows yet what a good one looks like. But this looks
    good, and looks like it would read just fine as that letter nobody really knows
    yet. :->\r\n\r\n<em>Nina, do the tittles look right? :></em>\r\nNo \u2013 left!
    :-D\r\nI feel a bit uncomfortable in the role of Tittle Expert\u2026 Perhaps not
    surprisingly, I'd make them bigger. :-) Placement looks better, but to my eyes
    they still look slightly left. Those tittles seem to be quite a subjective thing
    though, so maybe you don't have to do them my way. ;-)"
  created: '2009-02-26 00:20:30'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Just taking a look at your latest post: to look balanced I think the terminals
    of the j and y need to have similar weight, even if they differ in shape. For
    me that''s a general principle, though at different heights--bottom of descender,
    baseline, x-height, top of ascender they can differ somewhat.  '
  created: '2009-02-26 00:24:08'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Ah, ok. Like this then...[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ROSSBURG_5641.jpg]
  created: '2009-02-26 00:42:52'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "William, thanks for spotting that. I think I'm going to take some weight
    off the y terminal. It's too strong for the other letters. Perhaps the j also
    needs to balance it by getting a (slightly) heavier base.\r\n\r\nGreat feedback
    everyone, thank you so much :D"
  created: '2009-02-26 00:48:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But the descender of the \"y\" is its heart. Remember,\r\nyou're not making
    a display face - people will not be\r\nin a position to consciously see and complain
    about any\r\nweight difference; they will instead benefit from the\r\ndivergence
    during reading.\r\n\r\nConcerning the new \"j\"s, I do think that rightmost\r\none
    is pretty cool, but without the inside cusp.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-26 00:55:52'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Oh what a difficult pursuit this is turning out! :D
  created: '2009-02-26 01:02:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I don't agree with Hrant's philosophy in the most recent post above. Getting
    the weights right is one of the most important things to a highly readable face.
    This means achieving evenness of color, but achieving it often involves variation
    in shapes and sizes, adapting to the letter shape and its relation to other letters.
    \r\n\r\nMatthew Carter's recently released [[http://fontbureau.com/fonts/Rocky|Rocky]]
    to me is like a master class on this issue: getting evenness of color and liveliness
    at the same time. That's a key challenge for a great typeface. On the lower case
    of Rocky, compare the terminals on the acfrsjy. Awesome.  "
  created: '2009-02-26 01:44:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Totally even color isn't an ideal, it's a disease.\r\nEvidence? You don't
    set a book in a monoline.\r\n\r\nIt's divergence that's really at play - one simply
    has\r\nto have the right amount, not too much. Even color\r\nis a backwards illusion,
    a conscious caprice.\r\n\r\nAnd Rocky, tellingly, seems to be a display face:\r\n\"In
    publications, they provide a sharp spot of\r\ntypographic 'color' as signature
    headletter\r\nseries for Roger Black\u2019s redesign of the Rocky\r\nMountain
    News.\"\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-26 03:12:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">totally even color\r\n\r\nThat's a straw man. I said even color within the
    variety of forms. \r\n\r\nI think variety in weight has to be restrained for the
    sake of even color. Imagine a face that has half bold and half regular: not very
    readable. If you want high readability, I think evenness of color needs to be
    one pole of the design problem, along with variety and others.\r\n\r\nRocky is
    a display face, and a very readable one. It would be too sharp and contrasty in
    text, I suspect. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-26 04:35:31'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>An intersection on the p...like Baskerville italic you mean?</em>\r\n\r\nI
    mean like something along these lines:\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/goudyitalic_6245.gif]
    Goudy Italic\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/caslonoldface_6131.gif]Caslon
    Old Face Italic"
  created: '2009-02-26 05:16:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Display faces -like Rocky- don't need to be readable; although they do need
    to be <em>legible</em>, that's a trivial challenge. What they really need to be
    is aesthetically attractive - which usually means pretty. And superficial formal
    harmony (things like descenders that are equally weighty) is a long-standing benchmark
    of prettiness. But that can change (which means it will). Anyway, such harmony
    becomes a necessary evil of sorts when it comes to readability; it delivers nothing
    useful, functionally.\r\n\r\nThe lower you go under the radar of reader consciousness
    (immersive reading) the more you can drift away from this shallow modernist harmony,
    and move towards a much deeper, fruitful harmony. Ergo: a text font should have
    tittles that are a bit too big, descenders of different shape/weight, etc.\r\n\r\n>
    evenness of color needs to be one pole of the design problem\r\n\r\nWhat I was
    trying to say is that evenness of color is not really a pole at all in the readability
    realm. I believe it's an absence of divergence; it is divergence that needs to
    be controlled, and evenness is a byproduct of pulling back divergence by a certain
    amount.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-26 05:55:07'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>evenness of color is not really a pole at all in the readability realm</em>\r\nReally,
    so absolutely? Wouldn't patchy color distract from the immersive experience as
    well?\r\n\r\nBen, re the eszett: I think the tension of the outer/inner contours
    is pretty exciting, though I'm still not sure it needs that rightwards \"flare\"."
  created: '2009-02-26 06:20:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, you do have to control the \"patchiness\". But to me even color is a
    byproduct and not something to directly strive for, because it doesn't give you
    anything except prettiness, which is largely moot in text setting.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-26 07:13:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Well, Hrant and I have had this debate before, and I don't want to belabor
    it. \r\n\r\nI learned about the importance of even color particularly from Doyald
    Young's book Fonts & Logos. And I came to the conclusion that uneven color is
    'noise' that distracts from detection of letter features, so it is important to
    readability. Thus it should be one of they key guidelines in type design. All
    the most widely used text types have very even color--and, I believe, in every
    script.  \r\n\r\nRocky is a headline and titling face and as such readability
    is important. For other uses readability may be lesser priority for display type,
    but I think for this usage it is important. "
  created: '2009-02-26 13:29:55'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "There's some interesting ideas here, thank you.\r\n\r\nWhen I suggested bringing
    the y more in line with the j, I was thinking that the black blob on its tail
    was too distracting. I don't intend to make the shapes the same and not even necessarily
    the weight the same, as I think there can be a good tension between contrasting
    elements. For me at the moment the y's tail makes the y a bit bottom-heavy on
    its own and distracting among other letters as the blob is below the baseline.\r\n\r\nHrant
    said >Totally even color isn\u2019t an ideal, it\u2019s a disease. Evidence? You
    don\u2019t set a book in a monoline.\r\n\r\nI think overall colour of text can
    (should?) look even, even in a font where the individual shapes are contrasty.
    I don't want to see books set in patchy text either. The best way it seems to
    me is a nice balance between where the contrast between and within shapes creates
    visual melody but the unity of the font assures readability (or do I mean legibility?)
    That goes back to Nina's point about the soft/hard elements of the particular
    shapes I'm using. I want distinctive but not distracting.\r\n\r\n>Yes, you do
    have to control the \u201Cpatchiness\u201D. But to me even color is a byproduct
    and not something to directly strive for, because it doesn\u2019t give you anything
    except prettiness, which is largely moot in text setting.\r\n\r\nI agree, and
    I wasn't striving for the y and j to match, just look like they can talk to each
    other :)\r\n\r\nRocky seems to achieve even colour, although the weights of serifs
    are different. Hopefully I can achieve something like that in my (text and possibly
    display) font if I'm clever!"
  created: '2009-02-26 14:22:31'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "As a practical matter, I think if you look at your j and y in words like
    \"jump for joy, happy\" you can judge more easily. I think visually the terminals
    need to look balanced in the word, as well as in relation to the other parts of
    their letter. But you want liveliness, or \"dance\" to use Hrant's nice term,
    also. That's what Rocky does so well--gets both. \r\n"
  created: '2009-02-26 16:53:56'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Right. Please tell me what you think is best to do with this r.alt. I developed
    the outy ear first but then made the vertical one to fit better. Currently I have
    an Opentype calt substituting the outy eared r whenever it comes before an a,
    c, d, e, o, q, eth and space.\r\nI am concerned this might give weird results
    in words with both varieties. Or perhaps not. I've seen other fonts where double
    letters are substituted through calt with slightly varied shapes to reduce 'visual
    stutter'. (E.g. an ff lig usually has a wider second f and an ll lig can have
    a taller second l.)\r\nIs the difference distracting or enriching?\r\nShould I
    choose just one r or leave as it is? Or something else?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Marrakech_4610.jpg]\r\nWho
    thinks what?"
  created: '2009-02-28 17:24:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Your vertical one looks a little narrower, which might be a slight problem
    with rhythm. Looking at it printed out at small sizes will help you decide, as
    some things are more evident at small size (and some less, of course.) '
  created: '2009-02-28 17:45:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That looks like a nicely sophisticated solution, with the variety doing nothing
    but helping (for a text face). I might suggest an innie beak (better than \"ear\"
    btw) as an alternate companion for the outie, but that might be a bit pushy in
    \"rr\" pairs.\r\n\r\nCan we see the \"rn\" for both variants (and maybe for an
    innie too)?\r\n\r\n> Your vertical one looks a little narrower\r\n\r\nBut that
    is part of the solution.\r\nBTW, you might vary the rightward foot serif length
    based on the variant.\r\n\r\nOne other thing: when/if you make a very dark weight
    you might discover than the outie no longer works (because the darker the weight
    the tighter the spacing).\r\n\r\n> rhythm\r\n\r\nNo such thing in a text face.\r\n\r\nOr
    rather: in a text face rhythm is not so superficial.\r\nIt might even be invisible
    - or better put, subvisible.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-28 18:02:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "More:\r\n- I'd try bowing the thick diagonal in the \"M\".\r\n- I'm realizing
    that the \"c\" might be slighly too narrow (although you don't want it to feel
    like an \"e\").\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-28 18:03:05'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Would your answers be different if this was a display font?\r\n\r\nI wonder
    if the outy one needs less weight on its beak/snout. I hadn't thought about an
    innie one. Wouldn't it look like it swallowed its tongue?"
  created: '2009-02-28 18:05:21'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Here's your rn both ways.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rn_5082.jpg]\r\nGah!
    I've overkerned the ke."
  created: '2009-02-28 18:13:39'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Ok, so this is what Nina suggested for the cap Sz (the one on the right)
    [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Sz_4576.jpg]\r\n\r\nIt looks a bit naked and
    seems to need the slight flare on the top corner to balance with the other serifs
    on the cap height?"
  created: '2009-02-28 18:36:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Looking at that sample, I'm wondering why you even need a straight version
    of the \"r\" at all... I'd keep it for the display cut.\r\n\r\n> Would your answers
    be different if this was a display font?\r\n\r\nTotally.\r\nIn a display face
    you either do no variation or dramatic variation. The subtle variation that can
    be fruitful in a text face usually looks like a \"mistake\" during conscious observation.\r\n\r\n>
    Wouldn\u2019t it look like it swallowed its tongue?\r\n\r\n:-)\r\nWhat is this,
    a zoo?\r\n\r\nDunno, I like it. And it lets you get quite close to the rounds
    in dark weights without neutering the \"r\" (which needs all the help it can get).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/krom_4016.gif]\r\n\r\nThe
    cap eszet: I prefer the first one, but I'd keep working on making it more integral,
    instead of an obvious fusion of two shapes.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-28 18:40:42'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>It looks a bit naked and seems to need the slight flare on the top corner
    to balance with the other serifs on the cap height?\r\n</em> \r\nI agree (though
    I'd want to give due deference to a German reader on that, too)."
  created: '2009-02-28 19:29:37'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Here's some Icelandic with the thorn and eth. Previously the eth was way
    too short for unknown reasons, now it reaches the ascender line. Are the shape
    and colour ok?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/iceland_3837.jpg]\r\nAnd how
    is the spacing looking?"
  created: '2009-02-28 20:03:23'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Not what you asked about, but:\r\n\r\n- Is the e-part of the ae overwhelming
    the a-part? Would more similar shares of the glyph's width be appropriate? (I'm
    no expert on this character as you well know from my critique thread!)\r\n\r\n-
    Hadn't noticed your accents before - can you soften those up? They seem out of
    character to me. (Or are you thinking to heighten the fluidity of the letters
    through contrast?)"
  created: '2009-02-28 20:56:42'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Hm, re the cap eszett, I'll have to agree the second one seems a bit weak-topped.
    Though I still think the first version with a heavy vertical *and* a rather heavy
    horizontal, with a slim \"corner\", looks odd weight-wise. :-/\r\n\r\nI like your
    \"r\"s, though I'll second the call for an \"innie\". Actually the r/o combination
    Hrant posted is probably my favorite detail about Patria. Putting an \"r\" like
    that next to a round shape and watching it click is a pretty amazing experience.\r\n\r\nOh,
    regarding your most recent sample, I think the eth looks pretty well balanced
    (although I'm not sure if people wouldn't expect the bowl to fully reach the x-line).
    \r\nOn the other hand (also not what you asked about) the horizontal placement
    of the accents seems a bit off - I'd expect the accent on an iacute to \"start
    off\" roughly where a tittle would, if that makes any sense; it seems shifted
    to the left, as does the one on the aacute. My Icelandic is rather poor though
    so I'm probably not the best person to ask about this."
  created: '2009-02-28 22:24:28'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Eszett: Here's a rough idea (curving the top-right down a bit, with a lil'
    flare that isn't quite as emphatic). Feel free to disregard; I hope you don't
    mind me putting up a quick comp:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/eszettidea_6533.gif]\r\n(Would
    obviously need more overshoot.)"
  created: '2009-02-28 22:36:32'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Ah, that's nice. It's a good shape in itself, though to me, it still looks
    weak next to the other shapes with serifs up there at the caps line. It's a tough
    shape and I've tried 12 different versions already, with reversed contrast and
    all sorts of different structures! It's got the same problem as the ezh shape,
    in that the contrast has to go somewhere but it's either ending up looking badly
    formed or wrongly stressed. :< You're right in saying the heavy vertical combined
    with the heavy horizontal looks funny, that is not a common pattern. I kinda thought
    it worked ok.\r\n\r\nI haven't seen an attractive innie r. They always look unhappy
    and a bit mean and droopy to me. However, I will try one out. I'm beginning to
    see Hrant's point about only having the outy though. \r\n\r\nCraig, do you mean
    the shape of the accents is too sharp and needs rounding somehow? And re the ae,
    I think it's best for it not to be symmetrical. The shapes are simply repeated
    versions of the a and e fused together. Is that the wrong approach? I don't know.\r\n\r\nNina,
    the accents are still a bit arbitrary; I don't know an awful lot about placement
    though I did find an interesting diacritics pdf that I should perhaps read more
    thoroughly. It seems the acute and grave should have only 30% of their weight
    across the optical centre of the base glyph.\r\n\r\n>My Icelandic is rather poor
    \r\nHm, yes mine is rather less than rather poor! :)"
  created: '2009-03-01 00:45:26'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em> Craig, do you mean the shape of the accents is too sharp and needs rounding
    somehow?</em>\r\n\r\nYes. Did you try rounding the thick ends? Or maybe even just
    changing one or more of the angles so that it's not so nearly symmetrical down
    its axis. They just seem very mechanical to me. You might also consider making
    the size and/or angle of the acute/grave accents that go on caps different than
    those on the lowercase."
  created: '2009-03-01 02:59:12'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Ok, so spacing turns out to be really fiddly. \r\n\r\nI've set a page of
    plain 18pt dummy text for lc only. I didn't want to spend time on the UC in case
    it all looks rubbish. Kerning is on; leading is auto; tracking is zero. Consider
    this a display cut for now :)\r\n\r\nThanks to [[http://www.adhesiontext.com/|Adhesiontext]]
    for the peculiar vocabulary.\r\n\r\nI'm hesitant to use 'Metrics Assistance';
    surely an algorithm can't make the spacing optically correct? "
  created: '2009-03-01 17:41:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's pretty uneven still. The loose parts seem right, but there are a lot
    of tight spots. And the wordspace is too small. Beyond that is hard to say without
    a lot of careful observation and work. And even Typophile isn't <em>that</em>
    generous...\r\n\r\nDefinitely try do it by hand. If you feel overwhelmed, I've
    heard iKern* is worth the cost. But don't give up too easily. For one thing, if
    nothing else spacing a font is superb mental exercise!\r\n\r\n* http://ikern.com/k1/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-01 18:19:21'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Not sure how useful this exercise was, but wanted to see how even the colour
    was. Seems there are dark patches with the g,l and k particularly.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/blur_6100.gif]"
  created: '2009-03-01 18:26:49'
- author:
    name: Marcelo Soler
    picture: 115167
  body: "<em>\"Craig, do you mean the shape of the accents is too sharp and needs
    rounding somehow?\"\r\n\r\n\"Nina, the accents are still a bit arbitrary; I don\u2019t
    know an awful lot about placement though I did find an interesting diacritics
    pdf that I should perhaps read more thoroughly. It seems the acute and grave should
    have only 30% of their weight across the optical centre of the base glyph.\"</em>\r\n\r\nRounding
    the top corners of accents may be a handy solution (that resembles the caligraphic
    shape), though for my long term Spanish reading habits it would be more suitable
    changing the angles to reinforce the stress, I mean: \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/accents_4303.png]\r\nAbout
    the placing of the center, I think that image is useful also.\r\n\r\n<em>\"Did
    you try rounding the thick ends? Or maybe even just changing one or more of the
    angles so that it\u2019s not so nearly symmetrical down its axis. They just seem
    very mechanical to me. You might also consider making the size and/or angle of
    the acute/grave accents that go on caps different than those on the lowercase.\"</em>\r\n\r\nAccents
    in UC admit several solutions (actually, it was a rule, until not much time ago,
    that because of unavailability of space and types, UC weren't accented in non
    optical compositions):\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>The easy way is to rise the accent uppon
    the character (as shown), but the lack of space implies it need to be closer.</li>\r\n<li>An
    alternate way is to use UC accents, specifically designed for this.</li>\r\n<li>Eventually,
    one can replace the UC components with small caps.</li>\r\n<li>Otherwise, one
    can use common accents for lc and UC, but design shorter custom UC components
    that fit better.</li>\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\n<strong>MarS</strong>"
  created: '2009-03-01 18:32:40'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">It\u2019s pretty uneven still.\r\n\r\nOh :/ \r\nDo you think it got better
    or worse than before?\r\n\r\nI don't really know what good spacing looks like,
    anyone got any how-to links about this?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-01 18:41:59'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The best thing on spacing is still Tracy's Letters of Credit. [[http://briem.ismennt.is/|Briem's
    web site]] has a good summary--but don't take the 'equal area' thing too seriously.
    \r\n\r\nYou need to space and kern with many letters present--to avoid over kerning--and
    it is easiest to judge in words.\r\n\r\nMy experience has been that it took me
    quite some (painful) time to learn to judge this properly and quickly, and still
    there are often questions of compromise between competing considerations. But
    it is critically important. As I think David Berlow said on Typophile, aside from
    your drawing of the characters, it is the main contributor to the look of your
    typeface. \r\n\r\nA good test for even color, mentioned in Printer's Type in the
    20th Century, is to do a test file with \r\n\r\nabacadaeafagahaiajakalamanaoapaqarasatauavawaxaxaz\r\nbabbbbcb....\r\n\r\nAnd
    so on with all lc, uc, numbers. etc. and then print it out small--12 pt or less.
    The dark spots will then jump out more to the eye. You can also look at spacing
    this way, but this test is more critical for seeing if some strokes are too heavy
    or light. And you can print out a file with one of the classic text fonts that
    you most admire, and compare its evenness to yours.  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-01 19:06:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Seems there are dark patches with the g,l and k particularly.\r\n\r\nHmmm,
    seems like you have a lot of work ahead\r\nof you making all the other letters
    less gray.  :->\r\n\r\nBTW, see my third post of Feb 22 here:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/54942\r\n\r\nFour
    tactics of good spacing development:\r\n- Control strings.\r\n- High-frequency
    letter pairs (and hopefully triplets, etc.)\r\n- High-frequency whole words.\r\n-
    Rare but problematic words (like wyvern). Hard to compile.\r\n\r\nOh, and one
    over-riding principle: Remember, there's\r\nalways room for improvement... so
    eventually stop trying!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-01 21:10:56'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Thanks Hrant, I was using your pdf already! (Oh dear!)\r\n\r\nThink I'll
    take a break from this now, perhaps look at the italic (but I'm not giving up)
    :>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-01 23:05:25'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "<cite>Remember, there\u2019s\r\nalways room for improvement... so eventually
    stop trying!</cite>\r\n\r\nThat deserves to be on a t-shirt (set in Eternal, of
    course)."
  created: '2009-03-01 23:26:43'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: That is indeed a great remark! :D
  created: '2009-03-01 23:32:07'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Typophile should really hold a new t-shirt contest. :-)\r\n\r\nI don't envy
    you about working on spacing Ben, and I'll keep my mouth shut about that before
    I'm battling it myself!\r\n\r\nCap eszett: Like I said before, I think its main
    problem is that nobody really knows what it's supposed to look like yet. ;-)  Definitely
    one of the tough'uns! \r\n\r\n<em>\"You\u2019re right in saying the heavy vertical
    combined with the heavy horizontal looks funny, that is not a common pattern.
    I kinda thought it worked ok.\"</em>\r\nYou know, maybe it does. It's not like
    I'm any kind of expert on contrast nor cap eszetts!"
  created: '2009-03-01 23:37:34'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I realised the shape of the a was slightly weird and wouldn't allow the stress
    to be angled correctly; also it looked a bit wide. I've made a version with a
    springier bowl and think it works better.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/newa_5267.gif]"
  created: '2009-03-07 20:30:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sorry, I find the original far superior, both in character and performance.\r\nThe
    new one is just lip service to the status quo.\r\n\r\nBTW, the animation is at
    least twice as fast as it should be.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-07 20:39:50'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "The original a had not been revised with the other lettershapes lately and
    I felt it didn't harmonise too well with e and s particularly, but with the general
    narrow proportions of cdhnru as well. I felt the flattened bowl looked too modern
    and a bit sans-serif based as well as flabby and loose. \r\n\r\n>The new one is
    just lip service to the status quo.\r\nI can see where you're coming from. It's
    a much more conventional shape. Maybe I've gone too far. Anyone else have any
    thoughts?"
  created: '2009-03-08 10:23:45'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Can you set some smaller, running text using each? I find it hard to judge
    from the animated post.
  created: '2009-03-08 11:58:53'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'As Craig says, we need to see it in text, in a PDF at size to judge. But
    my initial impression is that it''s an improvement. I also suspect that the "e"
    could would benefit from similar work, with the bar a little higher and the character
    a little narrower. '
  created: '2009-03-08 15:29:21'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: I agree with hrant, I think the original works better.
  created: '2009-03-08 16:12:53'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Add salt as usual, but to my eyes the initial shape of the \"a\" with the
    flatter bowl looks better too. It's interesting you mention the \"e\", Ben &ndash;
    I think the bowl of the \"old\" \"a\" harmonizes especially nicely with the eye
    of the \"e\". \r\nI agree it'd be highly interesting to see the two versions juxtaposed
    at text sizes, in a PDF."
  created: '2009-03-08 16:54:38'
- author:
    name: Marcelo Soler
    picture: 115167
  body: "<em>\"I think the bowl of the \u201Cold\u201D \u201Ca\u201D harmonizes especially
    nicely with the eye of the \u201Ce\u201D.\"</em>\r\n\r\nAbsolutely.\r\n\r\n<strong>MarS</strong>"
  created: '2009-03-10 03:55:52'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Hi Hrant!\r\n\r\nNice to see you again here!\r\n\r\nThe g is pretty nice,
    too! Like the round head of it.\r\n\r\nStefan"
  created: '2009-03-11 11:05:22'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Aww. Ok, I'll stick with the original a for now. I'm getting a bit tangled
    up in the spacing so it might be a week or two before I'm brave enough to post
    for crit again! :>\r\n\r\nAnd I still haven't finished with the uc glyph tweaks.
    I wonder how many times I can go around the alphabetic glyphs before it starts
    turning into something completely different!"
  created: '2009-03-11 17:51:15'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Ok, well maybe I'm brave enough to show you the alternates so far. I'm completely
    undecided about which a I prefer, they're both pleasant to me.\r\n\r\nOn the latest
    attachment you can see the old j and y (which I really don't prefer at all). I
    should make a pdf with the other versions for comparison really. I rather like
    the r with the outpoking beak. But I also like the cleverness that Opentype allows
    with Calt to make it vary depending on neighbouring glyphs.\r\n\r\nI have bumped
    up the spacing and the sample is at 10pt, ligs switched off until I work out the
    correct spacing needed and iron out the gaps and squashes between letters. Spacing
    doesn't come naturally to me. "
  created: '2009-03-11 20:02:06'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "This is coming along really nicely. Great to see this in text &ndash; I really
    enjoy reading it. \r\n\r\nFor the \"j\" and the \"y\", the new forms are most
    likely an improvement. While I like the old glyphs seen in isolation, their terminals
    might be too stiff/determined in the overall context of your font; the new ones
    flow more nicely. Except the old ones matched the \"f\" very nicely, which might
    now feel a little lonely? Dunno.\r\nThat said, I'm not sure the new \"j\" terminal
    couldn't benefit from a little more strength/definition; it seems a bit weak (and/or
    light), especially compared to the \"y\", which seems to work quite nicely. \r\nThe
    whole \"j\" might also be leaning left a bit? But maybe it's just the tittle.\r\n\r\nRegarding
    the \"a\", I'd prefer the top version. The bottom one looks a hair narrow to me,
    and I think the top one has more character &ndash; it's a likeable and beautiful
    glyph.\r\n\r\nBtw, a couple of other things that struck me: \r\nThe \"x\" confuses
    me a bit (didn't notice this before) \u2013 the top-right seems strangely bent.
    That also makes it look vaguely Hebrew to me (which I don't read, so here's lots
    of salt).\r\nThe \"z\" looks like its bottom is sloping upwards. Might that serif
    need more definition?\r\nAnd, I love the way your \"ft\" combination clicks together!\r\n\r\nSpacing-wise,
    one thing that jumped out at me in the \"new\" version is that \"ll\" seems quite
    tight. (Although &ndash; either I'm having printer or eye issues, or &ndash; is
    that a ligature / contextual alternate? In the bottom part, wherever there's a
    double \"l\", the first one looks\u2026 shorter.)"
  created: '2009-03-11 20:46:40'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Nina's right on about all those points, I think.\r\n\r\nIn my printout, at
    size, I also think:\r\n- the serif on the right end of 'w' looks too wide\r\n-
    the last vertical of 'm' might be too serpentine\r\n- 'g''s bottom bowl looks
    a little like it's been mashed in from the bottom right - my eye wants it to be
    a little rounder and a little wider towards the right on that SE corner."
  created: '2009-03-11 21:19:38'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Probably a discretionary lig I forgot to switch off...yes it would be tight
    as that was made prior to the space increases. Well spotted!\r\n\r\nThanks for
    enjoying reading it! I find the shapes interesting too. \r\n\r\nThe z does flare
    towards the curving tail, in an upwards way. The cap E and L do similar things.
    But on the z, combined with the diagonal heavy stroke, it perhaps makes the whole
    shape look tilted anticlockwise. It never wanted a proper serif on the end there,
    and seems to have the personality of a cat. (Sorry Hrant, another zoo analogy)\r\n\r\nI
    wonder if the f and r can be friends to stop the f being lonely. Maybe the f's
    hood can go out a bit more like the outpoking r beak, be a bit heavier...will
    try also a different terminal there perhaps.\r\n\r\nYou are right about the j,
    it looks a bit ailing. I'll crank up the foot and see about its leftward lean.\r\n\r\nI
    can't seem to get a definite plan for the x!\r\n\r\nGlad you like ft; wish I could
    get fl and fi to look more polished.\r\n\r\nHm well the new a does look kind of
    narrow and I've realised the old bowl looks nicer too. But I think perhaps the
    top serif of the old one could be more interesting.\r\n\r\nThanks,"
  created: '2009-03-11 21:22:56'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"I wonder if the f and r can be friends to stop the f being lonely.\"</em>\r\n\r\n<strong>fr</strong>iends!
    Good plan. :-) \r\nI missed the \"r\" in that respect \u2013 sorry."
  created: '2009-03-11 21:32:21'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Sorry that I have to interrupt here with something more general.\r\nI was
    just looking at this webpage (which I appreciate very much) with a guy who never
    heard what it means designing typefaces. We were both looking a this beautiful
    typeface while I tried to explain him some things around the story of typefaces.\r\nI
    just wanted to say that I am (although it may seem strange) very very proud of
    you all out there doing these wonderful things and discussing about, and one can
    feel all the heart that you lay in there.\r\n\r\nGO ON DOING SO!!!\r\nGreat great
    stuff.\r\nBeautiful new typeface!\r\n\r\nStefan"
  created: '2009-03-12 15:48:12'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Hi Stefan! I'm delighted you can share type design with somebody who doesn't
    know anything about type, and so happy and encouraged to hear you think my font
    is beautiful! Thank you for your interruption! :)\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-12 16:31:33'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "It is beautiful!\r\n\r\nBy the way,\r\nas I do like your x very much, it
    has made me think.\r\nIs it an absolute law that the left thin stroke ends up
    higher than the right stroke is beginning (in the center of the letter)\r\nor
    are there faces where it is made in an opposite sense?\r\n(I did once)\r\n\r\nStefan"
  created: '2009-03-13 15:15:54'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Hi Stefan, I think no it's not a law, there don't seem to be laws in type
    design.\r\n\r\nThe thin stroke here is disjointed only to make it optically unbroken.
    You can see what I mean on page six of [[http://www.typeculture.com/academic_resource/articles_essays/pdfs/tc_article_6.pdf|this
    document]]. You'll see also that the example x there has the thin left stroke
    ending below the start of the thin right stroke, so it depends on the weight of
    the glyph and the angle of the arms to some extent too.\r\n\r\n\r\n:)\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-13 16:36:55'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Hi Bendy\r\n\r\nso there is kind of law anyhow ;-)\r\nAnd as I said I like
    your x very much.\r\n\r\nYet, I found (lucky me so I am no totally wrong doing
    so for myself ;-)\r\nexmples for the other solution with the left stroke ending
    below the start of the right one.\r\nYet your solution ist more natural because
    it makes the optical space below bigger than the one above\r\nas anyone would
    prefer.\r\nAnd by the way one example ist Weiss Italic. (the other is Perpetua)
    \r\nAnd a man who did design a \u2018s\u2019 that seems turned around (which I
    like anyway very much;-) may also make an \u2018x\u2019 turned upside down ;-))\r\n\r\nI
    have decided to keep MY x as it was. ;-)\r\n\r\nGo on wiht your very very good
    face!\r\nStefan[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Bild-1_3875.gif][img:sites/default/files/old-images/Bild-2_3659.gif]"
  created: '2009-03-14 15:27:49'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "By the way, Ben,\r\nthose animated diagrams you made, are cool!\r\nOn the
    one with the eveness of colour, your character almost has an historic glance.\r\nAre
    you aiming at Jensons eveness? ;-)\r\nVery good.\r\n\r\nStefan"
  created: '2009-03-15 14:19:59'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "I believe Jenson achieved so much pairing strokes of different letters. (which
    Adobe -shown below- completely fail to do so!)\r\nThis is only for inspiration.\r\n\r\nCiao\r\nStefan\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Bild-3_5237.gif]"
  created: '2009-03-15 14:26:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Wow, very interesting Stefan! But doesn''t Jenson also have a problem with
    ri and ci being ''fused'' too much for easy recognition? '
  created: '2009-03-15 15:35:29'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Hi William!\r\n\r\nYou may be right saying so. But on the other hand its
    part of the secret, isn\u2019t it?\r\nForm analogies were created (as letters
    do so quite naturally as m and n etc.) for making the eye run over the lines more
    easily and in harmony, I guess. Two sides of the same medal I guess.\r\n\r\nsalutes\r\nStefan"
  created: '2009-03-15 18:48:24'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: That is interesting, yes. In my even-colour animation I was really trying
    to see where to iron out the dark spots, in terms of glyph design (thinning the
    strokes) and spacing (adding between-glyph space). I'm taking a rest from Eternal
    at the moment.
  created: '2009-03-15 22:05:09'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "ok\r\nGoudy used to do so, too (while he was up to designing other faces
    in the meantime ;-)\r\nFresh eye.\r\n\r\nMe, for the while I am enjoying my Razorlight
    CDs..\r\n\r\nCiao\r\nStefan"
  created: '2009-03-16 18:35:32'
date: '2009-02-16 00:20:16'
files:
- filename: Eternal Regular Feb 2009.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Eternal Regular Feb 2009.pdf
- filename: Eternal Regular Feb 20092.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Eternal Regular Feb 20092.pdf
- filename: eternaldummy.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/eternaldummy.pdf
- filename: alternateajry.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/alternateajry.pdf
node_type: forum
title: Eternal (New Thread)

---
