---
author:
  name: paul d hunt
  picture: 109422
body: "It's official:\r\nhttp://tdc.org/tdc/tdc2-2009-winners\r\n\r\nCongrats to all
  the winners, and especially warm regards to my fellow classmates: Dan Reynolds and
  Mathieu Regeur!"
comments:
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "You come in second, Paul.\r\n\r\nYesterday I had the pleasure to attend a
    lecture held by Dan Reynolds here in Frankfurt where he showed his Malabar and
    talked about its development. Good Job. Congrats."
  created: '2009-02-19 19:59:00'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Is Klimax miscredited?
  created: '2009-02-19 20:03:19'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Are there any women at all among this year's winners?\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-02-19 20:52:12'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Congratulations!\r\n\r\nRe Klimax: That\u2019s what I\u2019ve thought, too.
    <a href=\"http://www.typotheque.com/site/font_in_development.php?id=65\">Typotheque</a>
    says it is by [[Ondrej J\xF3b]].\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-19 21:35:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "BRAVO Dan! Way to break in bigtime!\r\n\r\nAnd how about Kris Sowersby TWO
    awards!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-02-19 21:47:23'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>And how about Kris Sowersby TWO awards!</cite>\r\n\r\nI think he\u2019s
    chasing the Grand Prix."
  created: '2009-02-19 21:57:40'
- author:
    name: urtd
    picture: 112407
  body: yes. klimax is miscredited. i hope they will fix that soon :)
  created: '2009-02-19 22:13:54'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: I wonder what came first, Optica or <a href="http://fontstruct.fontshop.com/fontstructions/show/dioptical">Dioptical</a>.
  created: '2009-02-19 22:15:38'
- author:
    name: Ale Paul
    picture: 110500
  body: Ondrej, Klimax is lovely, congratulations!
  created: '2009-02-20 00:04:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I forgot to mention our good friends Ale Paul and Carl Crossgrove!\r\nCongrats
    to both of you AGAIN! Repeat winners once more! GOoD Work--and Carl, get your
    sample up!\r\n\r\n ChrisL"
  created: '2009-02-20 01:23:15'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'Thanks Chris and everyone. I will send them something tonight! Congrats to
    Kris, Ale, Dan, Stephen and all. I feel honored. '
  created: '2009-02-20 04:02:32'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Congratulations all around! Ondrej, Klimax might be my favorite of the lot.\r\n\r\nCarl,
    I want to see more of Nebulon, too. Are we going to get to sell it soon? ;-)"
  created: '2009-02-20 10:09:55'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Congratulations everyone! It's a particularly fine selection this years.\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2009-02-20 11:43:46'
- author:
    name: Ale Paul
    picture: 110500
  body: 'Yeah, i feel very happy too! Come on Kris and Carl, show your samples! lol '
  created: '2009-02-20 13:32:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Congratulations to our Typophile winners: Dan, Ale, Kris, Carl! Looking forward
    to seeing the samples. '
  created: '2009-02-20 15:52:25'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite> our Typophile winners</cite>\r\n\r\nWell, actually most of them are
    fellow typophiles!\r\nAt least <a href=\"http://typophile.com/user/17806\">Ondrej</a>,
    <a href=\"http://typophile.com/user/12433\">Rui</a> and <a href=\"http://typophile.com/user/14650\">Stephen</a>
    are frequent contributors here."
  created: '2009-02-20 16:25:45'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "OK, the sample I sent in is posted, as are Kris' 2. Dan, I still have to
    wrangle kerning and features, but yes, it will be available soon. \r\n\r\nI think
    we could say any of the winners are present or potential Typophile members. Hasn't
    Mark Jamra posted here? \r\n\r\nMy sister said Klimax  \"gave me a suffocating
    inexplicable nightmare feeling\".... Ha Ha! I like it a lot. There is something
    blacker than ultra!"
  created: '2009-02-20 17:20:36'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "That\u2019s great, Carl! It\u2019s amazing to look at Nebulon and think that
    you also did Beorcana\u2014what a breadth of work!"
  created: '2009-02-20 17:33:08'
- author:
    name: Stephen Rapp
    picture: 111901
  body: Nebulon is great, Carl. Contemporary and clean with overtones of the Jetsons.
    ;-)
  created: '2009-02-20 19:27:05'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: Carl, I'm relieved to see that our concepts were completely different! Now
    I can develop my take on futuristic Microgramma. hehe
  created: '2009-02-20 19:49:06'
- author:
    name: urtd
    picture: 112407
  body: thank you guys! and congrats to all the winners! especially the ones that
    won twice ;)
  created: '2009-02-20 20:28:59'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Congrats to all winners! Love all of the winning entries.\r\nNice to see
    Klimax on there too, since it was on the crit boards on Typophile! :)"
  created: '2009-02-20 21:05:55'
- author:
    name: merkri
  body: "Definitely lots of congratulations to go around. \r\n\r\nKris Sowersby is
    quickly becoming one of my favorite type designers.\r\n\r\nI'd like to see more
    of Cassius--I found a type sample on the web, but I was confused about its status
    at the time. I saw Greek characters somewhere in the specimen, but they weren't
    listed as supported elsewhere.\r\n\r\n\r\nIt's great to see so much wonderful
    work."
  created: '2009-02-20 23:39:25'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Congratulations to all the winning entries, first of all.\r\n\r\nCassius
    was designed to support Arabic as well. You can find a specimen here: http://www.typefacedesign.org/2008/
    Glad to see it recognized. \r\n\r\nI knew Klimax was something special when I
    first saw it on the crit boards. That type sample is so much fun to look at."
  created: '2009-02-21 00:08:45'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Yeah, Mathieu definitely deserved the win with Cassius.
  created: '2009-02-21 01:52:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nice to see many familiar faces, both human and typographic!\r\nCongrats
    to all.\r\n\r\nI think my favorite is Nebulon.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-21 06:17:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I wonder what came first, Optica or Dioptical.\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/27833\r\n\r\nhttp://www.gestalten.com/fonts/detail/?id=be0db8100c98034e010ca9ae0f240004\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-21 06:42:23'
- author:
    name: verena
  body: '@ Thomas: This is a very good question. Thanks a lot.'
  created: '2009-02-21 10:49:44'
- author:
    name: metaspace
    picture: 115729
  body: Congrats to all winners. My favorite is Malabar. I wonder if there's a big
    problem with Optica Normall's readbility and legibility. Anyway, its' pretty cool
    and vertiginous.
  created: '2009-02-21 12:13:44'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: congrats all, well done!
  created: '2009-02-21 13:50:19'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "Excellent!\r\n\r\nSharon"
  created: '2009-02-21 15:53:45'
- author:
    name: abi
    picture: 111936
  body: Congratulations to everyone who won, Lirico and Kris Sowersby's work are some
    of my favourites. But a special congratulations to my fellow Type and Media students
    Ondrej (for Klimax) and Berton (for his exquisite Alda).
  created: '2009-02-21 18:34:36'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Congrats to all the winners! Impressive work. My favorites are Alda and Nebulon
    (which is strangely intriguing). Also, Dan, I'm intrigued with Malabar's tiny
    cap height. That should work great for German!
  created: '2009-02-21 19:31:01'
- author:
    name: farquart
  body: my congratulations to all. i wonder how many will enjoy commercial success.
    previously, this competition has not had a great track record in that regard.
  created: '2009-02-21 20:55:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Get them all to market, guys!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-02-21 23:53:53'
- author:
    name: farquart
  body: the tdc competition seems to highlight the gap between graphic designers and
    type designers... the tdc picks rarely translate into types graphic designers
    want to use... why is that?
  created: '2009-02-22 02:29:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Which graphic designers are those? I have never found your theory to have
    any validity.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-02-22 03:33:39'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "The fact that experts have more refined taste than the average client should
    not be a surprise. In commercial art the designer doesn\u2019t always get to do
    what they please."
  created: '2009-02-22 03:56:48'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "There may be some truth to farquart's assertion. FF Netto, for example, has
    seen great commercial success, but wasn't selected by the jury (along with other
    FontFonts).\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, I do see practical value in many of the
    winners \u2014 especially Alda, Novel, and Malabar. And as further evidence against
    the theory, Sowersby's two winners were both commissioned designs, so there was
    a obviously a group of graphic designers who demanded each of those typefaces."
  created: '2009-02-22 04:07:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think a careful and balanced statistical analysis is in order.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-22 04:16:41'
- author:
    name: farquart
  body: it strikes me that the winners of the competition are types that have very
    strong personalities... i would think most graphic designers are drawn to more
    neutral looking designs... allowing the designer to put their personality on the
    work rather than fight with a type with such strong personality... the fact that
    mr sowersby's designs were commissions and the most neutral looking of the winners
    may bear this out...  also mr paul's beautiful script faces have won a few times,
    they are very beautiful, but how many graphic designers actually use script fonts
    in their work? maybe a few times in their career... i know that veer's and most
    other on-line resellers point to scripts as their most popular sellers, but the
    question has to be asked... who is licensing these designs, and how come they
    turn up so rarely in general commercial work... are they more objects than tools?
  created: '2009-02-22 15:30:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "If you look at packaging in the food industry, you will see plenty of scripts.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-02-22 15:36:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> most graphic designers are drawn to more neutral looking designs\r\n\r\nReally?
    Maybe 40 years ago.\r\n\r\n> how many graphic designers actually use script fonts
    in their work?\r\n\r\n?\r\nScript fonts are always best-sellers.\r\n\r\nThe hardest
    thing to sell (at least retail) is a serious serif.\r\n\r\n> who is licensing
    these designs\r\n\r\nYou think it's people who buy the font, install it and just
    look at pangrams?\r\n(Wow, I <em>wish</em> people bought fonts for that!)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-22 15:46:41'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "It seems as if there are three things people are talking about, combining
    two if they want to bolster their argument. Specifically, 1) design recognition,
    2) use by graphic designers, and 3) commercial success. Farquart complains that
    1 and 2 don't correlate, and Stewf chimes in that plenty of 3s that were not 1s.
    \r\n\r\nI wonder how much graphic designers go for something \"timeless\" in their
    designs, which might involve using (as farquart notes) something with a more neutral
    personality. Witness the continuing usage of Helvetica. \r\n\r\nOn the other hand,
    commercial success for a font publisher often involves convincing graphic designers
    that last year's typeface is now passe and needs to be replaced with the hottest,
    latest typeface. \"You don't want to use Fnorkle Script for Shazbat, Inc., because
    Blah Industries used it in their ad campaign last year.\" Nevermind that both
    the Shazbat and Blah logos are Helvetica. "
  created: '2009-02-22 15:50:14'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I'm not how sure how commercial success should be brought into type design
    competitions (this one, or others). The TDC2, for example, does not require that
    submitted designs already have been released. I guess that some winners might
    never get released\u2026 that is at least a theoretical possibility. \r\n\r\nMoreover,
    since the contest is supposed to be blind, should judges really consider how successful
    a typeface may have already been? When you submit your PDFs to the contest, you
    don't include the designer's name, typeface name, or foundry name in the layout.
    So you couldn't well write \"Dear judge, this typeface has already sold xxx copies!
    Love, foundry y.\"\r\n\r\nNow, I guess that individual judges could look at a
    design, and try to guess how successful a design might be. But that is a slightly
    different question. Also, I suspect that \"success\" is defined differently at
    each foundry. I also think that each foundry has\u2014to an extent\u2014its own
    unique customer base. The customers that really like a certain kind of typeface
    may always drift to foundry A, while foundry B gets customers who like their popular
    typefaces a bit better.\r\n\r\nLike Stephen Coles, I've been involved with submitting
    designs from a foundry to this competition for five years now. I also can think
    of several designs I think were submitted to the contest this year that did not
    win, and of course I wish that they would have. But I am sure that this year's
    judges had good reasoning for their choices. I am honored to be on the list of
    those designers whose typefaces were selected for recognition. When we all read
    the published TDC annual that comes out later in the year, we can read what the
    judges had to think about this year's entries and this year's competition."
  created: '2009-02-22 16:06:08'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Just to be clear, I'm not suggesting that judges take commercial success
    into account in any way. Mine was merely an observation, not a complaint.\r\n\r\n>
    Script fonts are always best-sellers.\r\n\r\nFor Veer, yes. But not for every
    vendor."
  created: '2009-02-22 20:12:39'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: I remember Jim Parkinson telling me that one of his designs that won the TDC
    competition has never been licensed by anyone. Not one sale! Maybe there is something
    to this.
  created: '2009-02-22 21:09:13'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Dan,\r\n\r\nI think the TDC does require that the design submitted be something
    that was created in the previous year. I'm not sure of the language as it relates
    to \"released\" but I think the spirit of the competition requires that only the
    previous year's work be entered."
  created: '2009-02-22 21:12:20'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "A large number of MyFonts bestsellers are also script fonts. Among Adobe's
    fonts, new releases of the past decade which were script fonts were more likely
    to sell really well than other new releases. I don't think I'd say \"script fonts
    are always best-sellers,\" but they are more likely to be, it seems.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-02-22 21:16:02'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Hrant do you really think that a preference for neutral type went out of
    style 40 years ago? How do you explain the continued popularity of Trade/News/Franklin
    Gothic? Why would Font Bureau work so hard at releasing a new Franklin or Benton
    Sans if there wasn't a desire by GD's for neutral looking fonts.\r\n\r\nDidn't
    Jeremy Tankard's \"Blue Island\" win a few years ago. Has anyone ever used Blue
    Island in a commercial project?\r\n\r\nI think Farquart may be on to something
    here."
  created: '2009-02-22 21:19:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the spirit of the competition requires that only the previous year\u2019s
    work be entered.\r\n\r\nWhich is why Rialto -even though it's an amazing design-
    should have been disqualified.\r\n\r\n> do you really think that a preference
    for neutral type went out of style 40 years ago?\r\n\r\nNo, but I do think it's
    no longer a big force.\r\n\r\nBTW James, are you still a TDC \"player\"?\r\n\r\n>
    I think Farquart may be on to something here.\r\n\r\nSomething, yes (and you can
    see this among the Morisawa winners too, with the co-sponsor Adobe taking up only
    Fusaka, and not even Mirarae). That something is probably the age old discrepancy
    between culture and money.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-22 21:30:37'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "James,\r\n\r\nAs far as I remember, the entry sheets over the past few years
    have stated that a typeface must have been \"designed\" or \"released\" in the
    past year. I think that I can remember seeing instances of both! Many of the winners
    that you see each year weren't released by the time the contest entry deadline
    or judging came around. Sometimes a design might sit around for several years
    before its release."
  created: '2009-02-22 21:31:17'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>BTW James, are you still a TDC \u201Cplayer\u201D?</cite>\r\n\r\nPlayer?\r\n\r\nI
    created the TDC Type Design Competition with Paul Shaw many years ago. I have
    been involved with its management since the beginning. I have served as the competition
    chair three times. The first two years as co-chair with Paul Shaw, and once on
    my own when the judges I selected were Dave Farey, Fiona Ross, Ilene Strizver
    and Jim Parkinson. I have never entered anything in the competition since I felt
    it would be viewed as inappropriate. I am consulted on a continuing basis by the
    current board when questions arise. In the past few years I have not been as involved
    as I was previously. This year was one of the few times I was not present at the
    judging. Over the last several years (if not more) Maxim Zhukov has been deeply
    involved in coordinating non-latin experts to advise the panel of judges.\r\n\r\nPlayer?"
  created: '2009-02-22 21:42:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's just that in 11 years I've never heard a whiff of a hint of an innuendo
    of criticism about the TDC from you. The closest I've ever seen you come is grudgingly
    agreeing to forward one of my many historic criticisms to the board for discussion,
    and only after what can only be called public haranguing by me. Suddenly hearing
    you say -with minimal pressure- that the results of the competition seem disconnected
    with commercial reality is frankly a bit shocking (if also refreshing). Now hearing
    that there hasn't been some sort of falling-out makes me say: kudos, and thank
    you.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-22 21:55:38'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I have been talking about this for several years. \r\n\r\nI don't think it
    is a criticism of the competition or the TDC at all. \r\n\r\nI do think there
    is a different point of view between type designers and graphic designers, and
    when Farquart posted his/her comments I thought they were valid.\r\n\r\nAs posted
    here, the competition is not one about commercial viability, it is about what
    a group of judges pick to be the best on a given day. On another day the results
    may be different. What that means for the commercial success of any given design
    is meaningless.\r\n\r\nI do think that most graphic designers play follow-the-leader
    when it comes to type selection. What fonts are \"The Handful of Influential Designers\"
    using, and there you go, everyone else follows suit.\r\n\r\nI would also say that
    this small universe of Typophile readers is an insignificant sample of the tens
    of thousands of designers working today. What goes for conventional wisdom here,
    hasn't even been thought of \"out there\", and from my Type Designer's point of
    view, \"out there' is more important than \"in here\". At least it is a potentially
    bigger market.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-22 22:11:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The marketplace has always judged the marketplace. The \"Peoples Choice Awards\"
    of type design are won by virtue of numbers of fonts sold. \r\nDesign awards are
    supposedly given to works that have made a contribution to the craft as judged
    by renowned practitioners. There is no intended reflection of market value in
    the judging nor should there be.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-02-23 00:56:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "On the TDC Facebook page--before this arose here--James M. raised this question
    about TDC type winners vs commercial success. I asked whether maybe there was
    a bias for novelty. James posted a reply that he had often heard judges say \"I've
    seen that before\" as a reason not to choose a face.\r\n\r\nThe example Stephen
    gave above of FF Netto I think tends to support this. Soft sans generally are
    popular and familiar now. For example, my local Giant Food store has just redone
    its identity in Cronos. (It has gone from Benguiat to Meta to Cronos over the
    years.) One corporate logo after another seems to be coming out in a soft sans.
    FF Netto is a soft sans, and it also uses the 'stemless' look of Dax and others.
    So you could say, \"I've seen that before.\" But it seems to me that Netto is
    one of the best of this class, having softness and charm without being weak or
    cute. Should it have been rewarded for its excellence of execution, even if its
    look is not that original?\r\n\r\nI'm not saying that there should be any rule,
    but it might be that graphic designers are more concerned about the best in a
    class, rather than what is most original in look, whereas type designer judges
    tend to go a bit the other way. \r\n\r\nI know there is something like this difference
    in popular vs academic writing. In academic writing the main thing is originality.
    It's an explicit requirement for PhD dissertations, for example. But in popular
    writing having an enjoyable read is the main thing. And originality is only important
    in so far as it interests the reader--it doesn't need to be actually original,
    just new to the reader. For example, Malcolm Gladwell's books are reports on others'
    academic research. They would not be accepted by academic journals or get a PhD,
    but they wildly outsell almost everything academic.  \r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-23 02:26:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Re. 'commercial success': it happens that the graphic design business, on
    account of the kind of material that it produces and the way it produces it, accounts
    for a sizeable portion of the retail licensing font market. I don't think anyone
    really knows just how large a portion, or how large the retail licensing font
    market is relative to the overall market for fonts including OEM bundling, custom
    font commissions, etc., either in terms of number of units moved or in terms of
    income.\r\n\r\nAs a full-time type designer who had not had anything to do with
    retail font licensing for almost a decade, that market -- and the graphic design
    business in particular -- is practically irrelevant to me. So I'm pretty glad
    that the TDC competition does not seek to honour 'commercially successful' types;
    indeed, I'm not sure how such a criterion could be fairly judged it it were based
    on retail licensing figures, since the 'success' of OEM bundled fonts in terms
    of units moved is so much higher."
  created: '2009-02-23 04:12:57'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Hmm, I'm not sure \"units moved\" is relevant John. When I say \"commercial
    success\", I mean relative popularity as evidenced by the number of individuals
    who license a font. An OEM is chosen only by the bundling corporation. As important
    as that corporation may be in terms of cold hard cash, it still only represents
    the judgment of a single group.\r\n\r\nWhatever the case, I'm glad there are various
    barometers for a type design's success. Sales dollars and number of licenses is
    one measure, recognition by the TDC and blogs/press is another. Which reminds
    me: Typographica's annual list will be up very soon."
  created: '2009-02-23 07:52:40'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "@hrant\r\n\r\n<cite> > who is licensing these designs\r\n\r\n<cite> You think
    it\u2019s people who buy the font, install it and just look at pangrams?\r\n<cite>(Wow,
    I wish people bought fonts for that!)\r\n\r\ni am one of those people."
  created: '2009-02-23 10:52:36'
- author:
    name: AtoZ
    picture: 116285
  body: "<em>(Wow, I wish people bought fonts for that!)</em>\r\n\r\nI'm another one
    who does that (but not as often as I would like).\r\n&nbsp;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<em>When
    going from </em>A to Z,\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<em>I
    often end up </em>At Oz."
  created: '2009-02-23 20:16:58'
- author:
    name: Charles_borges_de_oliveira
    picture: 110282
  body: "Congratulations to all the winners! Stephen's Montague and Ale Pauls Adios
    Script are incredible! I wish I had an ounce of their talent!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-24 03:50:46'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> \"<em>The marketplace has always judged the marketplace. The \u201CPeoples
    Choice Awards\u201D of type design are won by virtue of numbers of fonts sold.\r\nDesign
    awards are supposedly given to works that have made a contribution to the craft
    as judged by renowned practitioners. There is no intended reflection of market
    value in the judging nor should there be.\r\n\r\nChrisL</em>\"\r\n\r\nI agree
    completely. Fonts that are sold alot aren't necessarily the <em>best</em> designed
    fonts either (think of aspects like originality, craftmanship, etc.) \r\nI think
    it's good that the TDC competition focuses completely on the design of the type
    itself, and not if it is used by certain or huge numbers of designers."
  created: '2009-02-24 17:29:24'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "Clear your cache, kids. TDC winning Klimax is our new Featured Font!\r\n\r\nCongrats
    all :)"
  created: '2009-02-24 19:13:41'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Typographica\u2019s annual list will be up very soon.</em>\r\n\r\nvery
    exciting! i'm curious to see how that one plays out as it's the first time i haven't
    written up a review. can't wait to see it."
  created: '2009-02-24 20:56:55'
- author:
    name: farquart
  body: "<cite>Clear your cache, kids. TDC winning Klimax is our new Featured Font!</cite>\r\n\r\nexamine
    closely... it may be the only time you see it in use... because i can't see how
    any modern designer would find a use for this thing... that w is as wide as the
    grand canyon..."
  created: '2009-02-26 03:16:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...can\u2019t see how any modern designer would find a use for this thing.</em>\r\n\r\nCombine
    it with an ultra thin sans, matched to the \"counter\" weight.\r\nOr do different
    parts in different colours.\r\nOr run a script across it.\r\n&c., &c.\r\nThe novelty
    of its formal qualities is quite a tonic. "
  created: '2009-02-26 03:50:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> i can\u2019t see how any modern designer would find a use for this thing...\r\n\r\nIf
    you mean <em>modernist</em>, I certainly agree:\r\nthey're a bunch of intellectual
    deadbeats.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-26 04:20:31'
- author:
    name: peter bilak
    picture: 109927
  body: i am not much worried about seeing it in use. here are some [[http://www.typotheque.com/site/fonts_in_use.php?filter_family_id=35
    | previews]] . more to come soon.
  created: '2009-02-26 15:22:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Sometimes you just see something and have to say, YES! that crazy thing really
    appeals to me. That is the way I felt when I first saw Klimax.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-02-26 17:10:28'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: Klimax is this century's answer to Cooper Black, and sooooo much sexier.
  created: '2009-02-26 20:06:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Actually, Paul, it is this century's answer to an eclipse of the Sun :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-02-26 20:56:35'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: i agree paul!
  created: '2009-03-02 02:23:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">sooooo much sexier\r\n\r\nGee, I think old and fat is very sexy :) "
  created: '2009-03-02 03:04:55'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: so is nebulon available yet? i can't seem to find it...
  created: '2009-06-30 16:05:56'
date: '2009-02-19 19:48:42'
node_type: forum
title: TDC2 2009 Winners

---
