---
author:
  name: KatRanPress
  picture: 112227
body: "I'm working with PostScript SabonNext in InDesign CS2 (although this is something
  I've noticed with other faces and in Quark) and when there is italic type in the
  first line of a page, that line (and thus the following page of type) does not align
  to the baseline grid. I happen to be working with 10-point type, in which case the
  alignment is off by (about) half a point. If I check Align to Grid in the Paragraph
  Control Panel, that kicks the first line down one line space, but everything aligns
  to the grid. What's the problem here? And how do I avoid manually adjusting the
  900+ pages of the book on which I'm working?\r\n\r\nI wrote to Linotype and they
  wrote back:\r\n\r\nWe checked the font, but could not find any error. Please contact
  Adobe to see\r\nwhy some fonts might lose the baseline.\r\n\r\nAny help will be
  greatly appreciated. \r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "I believe the culprit has to do with a discrepancy in one of the various
    ascender metrics in the font header, but someone with more tech savvy would have
    to identify the specifics for you. And if Linotype says there's nothing wrong
    internally, then perhaps its something else Indd-specific.\r\n\r\nTo avoid just
    this sort of thing, I am in the habit of defining my Basic Text Frame object style
    for book documents so that Text Frame Baseline Options > First Baseline is Fixed,
    with a value that is usually the same as my basic baseline measure or leading.
    That way, regardless of whether the first line in a frame is a heading or some
    other variation from text, the baseline will start in a consistent position and
    not vary depending upon the type size or ascender dimensions.\r\n\r\nAt this point
    in your project, I'm not sure if redefining the Basic Text Frame would reliably
    propagate in your document and fix your problem without introducing other anomalies.
    If you're working with a fixed Master text block that isn't overridden on pages,
    then you might be able to manage the issue globally from there. You may need to
    use a little trial-and-error to figure out what First Baseline setting will match
    your existing baseline alignment without needing to adjust the position of all
    your text frames.\r\n\r\nHope this makes sense and suggests some possible workarounds
    for you.\r\n\r\n-- Kent.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-25 17:25:44'
- author:
    name: KatRanPress
    picture: 112227
  body: "Hmmm. Thanks, Kent. I'll give this a try. \r\n\r\n\u2014Michael"
  created: '2009-02-25 20:33:03'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>To avoid just this sort of thing, I am in the habit of defining my
    Basic Text Frame object style for book documents so that Text Frame Baseline Options
    > First Baseline is Fixed, with a value that is usually the same as my basic baseline
    measure or leading.</cite>\r\n\r\nUs too -- except we use 7.5 points -- about
    the base to ascender measurement of most fonts at text size (9-10-11 point settings).
    If you think that's anal, I had to argue for it, as another comp felt that 7.45
    points was more accurate . . .\r\n\r\nAlso, if you do this, then when you want
    to sink the first line, as with a subhead starting a page, it is relatively easy
    to do this, keep your nominal space below the subhead, thus getting the text back
    on the grid."
  created: '2009-02-25 22:02:12'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "<em>that kicks the first line down one line space, but everything aligns
    to the grid. What\u2019s the problem here?</em>\r\n\r\nIt could be the setting
    for the baseline grid start being too close to the top of the text area. A small
    adjustment there to allow the (presumably higher) ascenders of the italic to fit
    should do.\r\n\r\nThis applies whichever way you define the grid, as for exmple
    here:\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/basgrid_5487.png]\r\n\r\nSo,
    moving the grid start to 20.2 mm should do the trick."
  created: '2009-02-25 22:41:55'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "I don't have SabonNext to test (since that family is not licensed to Adobe),
    but I suspect Kent is right about the vertical metrics discrepancy between the
    upright font()s and their italic counterpart(s).\r\n\r\nMichael, does this issue
    only happen in InDesign CS2, or do you see it in Quark XPress as well?"
  created: '2009-02-26 00:03:30'
- author:
    name: KatRanPress
    picture: 112227
  body: "Good question. This does NOT happen in Quark XPress 7.2. The baseline is
    consistent whether the first line is roman or italic. HOWEVER, if I set a few
    characters in small caps, the baseline is thrown off. I checked to see what would
    happen with small caps in InDesign, and the type did drop down ever so slightly\u2014but
    by a trace amount. "
  created: '2009-02-26 01:02:11'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Sorry, I did not realise that you do not want to use the baseline grid. If
    you do not use the grid in any form, the ascender of the first line aligns to
    the top of the text area/text box by default. So the baseline will be in a different
    spot in different typesizes, or italic or small caps. It's nothing wrong with
    the typeface.\r\n\r\nThe jumping of one line down you described happens when baseline
    grid is in use and the space above the first baseline grid line is not large enough
    for the ascenders."
  created: '2009-02-26 08:34:57'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "\xB6 -- I don't think it's necessarily the ascender itself. Different apps
    use different metrics from the font header info to determine where the \"top\"
    of the font is. It may or may not be the actual height of a typical ascender in
    the design of the typeface, depending upon the value(s) of the various font header
    fields. \r\n\r\nMiguel, can you tell us which field InDesign uses to determine
    this?\r\n\r\nAnother workaround trick for Michael's problem might be to search-and-convert
    all Italic spaces to Roman spaces. For lines of Italic that occur as the first
    line in the text block, the Roman spaceband will force the Roman metrics and shift
    the line down to the equivalent alignment of others. It's not necessarily elegant,
    but it is a global fix. Presumably, the spaceband width is the same or very similar
    between Italic and Roman, and with justified setting any slight difference shouldn't
    matter much. (And hopefully there are no Italic kern pairs involving the space.)
    \r\n\r\nThis assumes, of course, that the Italic lines are riding high. If not,
    then this trick won't work, since that would mean the Italic ascender metric is
    the larger value.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-26 13:59:57'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Maybe I've missed something, or don't understand the question, but I didn't
    see where Michael didn't want to use a grid at all, he just didn't want to snap
    to it. In that case, What Kent & I mentioned should work. Here is the InDesign
    setting:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/first-2_6619.gif]\r\n\r\nUsing that,
    I can have a big stick-up letter on the first line (no, didn't take the time to
    kern it):[img:sites/default/files/old-images/first-1_5204.gif]\r\n\r\nBTW, We
    are NOT snapping to the grid, but we do set the grid up to the nominal text leading.
    If there had been an extract with half a line above & below in the example, that
    space would be honored."
  created: '2009-02-26 17:21:44'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>Miguel, can you tell us which field InDesign uses to determine this?</em>\r\n\r\nI
    don't know exactly what InDesign does or uses. It's probably some elaborate algorithm
    filled with fallbacks that may have evolved over time. One thing I can say for
    sure is that in the font families we build we always try to set the TypoAscender,
    TypoDescender and TypoLineGap the same for the romans and italics."
  created: '2009-02-26 19:08:15'
- author:
    name: KatRanPress
    picture: 112227
  body: "This is all wildly helpful, and I'm learning a great deal. I'm presently
    leaning towards the technique Charles has described.\r\n\r\nWhat I don't understand,
    though, is why italic and roman and small caps from the same family (or different
    characters therein) would have different body heights and thus open themselves
    to this problem. "
  created: '2009-02-26 19:09:16'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Michael -- They shouldn't. But there may be errors or discrepancies in certain
    values that are part of the header. These are not necessarily derived from the
    font outlines directly. They are sometimes set manually and can therefore be subject
    to human error. They should be the same, as Miguel expressed, but sometimes they
    might not be. No real reason that I can think of.\r\n\r\nMiguel -- I'll shoot
    off an e-mail to Eric. He should know which values are used.\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-26 22:20:32'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "The 7.5 pt offset that Charles gives is completely reasonable for the work
    he does. \r\n\r\nThe reason I usually prefer the underlying baseline leading value
    is that a lot of my work has been multi-column or profusely illustrated, with
    multiple and variable text frames. By using the leading value I can easily achieve
    precision by simply snapping the head of a text frame to the baseline grid, knowing
    that the first line will then be aligned, regardless of the text matter -- caption,
    sidebar, pull quote, whatever -- or where on the page it occurs. \r\n\r\nIt's
    just a slight difference in working styles. But the concept is the same -- establish
    a controlled starting point, so that precision and consistency can be achieved
    easily and reliably.\r\n\r\n-- K."
  created: '2009-02-26 22:41:41'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: I just realized that the thread is about a <strong>Type 1</strong> (a.k.a.
    PostScript) version of SabonNext. Type 1 fonts do not have a OS/2 table, so I'm
    not sure where the equivalent values for TypoAscender/Descender/LineGap would
    be stored. Perhaps in the metrics file (.pfm)?
  created: '2009-02-26 22:42:09'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "If a long text contains headings, the technique recommended above is not
    ideal, it leads to this look:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/firstbase_4736.png]\r\n\r\nSorry,
    there is no way to expain this in a short post. A better solution is to use the
    baseline grid and snap to it, build the snap definitions into the styles. However,
    that requires that the whole design is modular. If, say, your body copy is 10/12,
    your grid could be 6 pt (half-a-line). You could then design the lager headings
    roughly at 6 pt leading jumps, say 16/18, 22/24, 28/30, you get the drift. You
    would limit your paragraph spaces above and below to increments of 6 pt: 6, 12,
    18, etc.\r\n\r\nIt is precisely to avoid the happening shown in the picture, that
    the default behaviour of InDesign text boxes is (roughly) to align ascender to
    the top edge of the text area. The headings (no matter how large) will not jump
    over the top of the text area, or even better over the top of the page :)\r\n\r\nAlso,
    controlling the behaviour of a 900-page book with the text box properties is very
    limiting, it is much better to use individual settings for individual styles (snap
    some, leave others floating, snap only first lines, etc.). Another advantage of
    this approach is that lines align across spreads or at the bottom of columns or
    pages as well (within the 1/2 line jumps, which are easily adjusted).\r\n\r\nHope
    this helps."
  created: '2009-02-26 22:43:45'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Jan,\r\n\r\nIt works fine, if you are doing a long book. For those pages
    you have a subhead beginning the page, you sink the the starting position. I'm
    home now & can't bring up a picture, but if anybody really wants to see it, I
    (or I suspect Kent), can show it\r\n\r\nOf course, in any reasonable scholarly
    book, you'd never have any such honking big subheads, but you do have the situation
    I mentioned above, a subhead beginning a page, with +1/2 line specified to the
    text. Unless told otherwise, we'll sink such a subhead, so the text itself begins
    on line (that would be line 3) -- but no snapping!\r\n\r\nTo further flesh out
    what Kent was saying about the offset value: If you use the ascender height, then
    any images to be placed at the top of the page will snap to the frame & be in
    position. Exceptions are designers who want the images to top align with x-height
    of the first line. Then you can make a different decision, either use the x-height
    value so images can snap to the text frame, or mess with each image. But these
    days, most of the work we do specifies images to top align with the ascender position.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    I use the same number, usually 7.5 points -- with table settings (ID2). We usually
    set the tables separately & put them in a library. We show them all in galley
    form at sample pages. Even when I'm designing a book, I set all the tables before
    finalizing the design. Using the 7.5 (or whatever) number, you do need extra spacing
    between the rows of course, but most of the body rows will use the same value,
    so you can highlight all of them & specify the extra space at one time. This small
    value also lets you get tighter table rules if you want them fairly tight. ID
    (at least CS2) won't take a negative value. Another plus is that when placed,
    the tables will snap into place on the text frame.\r\n\r\nWhen you're doing a
    600 page book with 100 images and 50 tables, little tricks like this help you
    stay somewhat sane. Of course, in such a book, you are not likely to have many
    subheads starting a page; I suppose if that were the norm, I might consider a
    different technique."
  created: '2009-02-27 01:04:58'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Charles, the example is made up on the spot and exaggerated for clarity.
    As long as Michael gets some useful advice for his problem out of this, I am happy.
    The debate about the font construction details and OS/2 tables is not going to
    help him much in his predicament. As for what InDesign uses by default for its
    text boxes, I still say it's ascender without writing to Linotype or Adobe:\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/deafult_4248.png]"
  created: '2009-02-27 05:07:31'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Jan --\r\n\r\nNotice it says \"Ascent.\" This is not the same as the ascender
    and will give different results in different typefaces. Witness the following
    examples of 14 pt. Whitman, Plantin, and PMN Caecilia and notice the positions
    of the ascenders relative to the top of the text frame:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ascent_3765.png]\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\nI
    have a meeting to attend this morning, so no time to respond in detail to the
    issue you raise about heads at the top of the page.\r\n\r\nNothing wrong with
    the different approaches. Each has its upsides and downsides. I have techniques
    for dealing with heads, similar to Charles's. It's all part of the planning and
    the specs.\r\n\r\nAny working method is a host of techniques that all work in
    concert.\r\n\r\n-- Kent."
  created: '2009-02-27 13:31:37'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Wow, it looks like you are right again, Kent. Off to some experimentation.\r\n\r\nAs
    to the <em>host of techniques that all work in concert</em>, how helpful is incomplete,
    expert level instruction to a person asking for help in one of these forums? Can
    we somehow give Michael some coherent advice to save his 900-page book?\r\n\r\nI
    am still convinced that the snap to grid and lowering the grid start to accomodate
    the first line in italic or small caps is the best (global) way to do it. No need
    to change the 900 odd text boxes through object styles or manually and THEN dropping
    every awkward instance by hand."
  created: '2009-02-27 13:57:00'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>how helpful is incomplete, expert level instruction to a person asking
    for help in one of these forums?</cite>\r\n\r\nThe same could be said for type
    design, esp. writing OpenType features. At some point, you have to learn the program,
    the tool. My grumble about using \"snap to grid\" is I feel I give up control,
    but I suppose all that means is the program may do something I don't expect. Depends
    both on what you are use to looking for that needs fixing, and how hard that fix
    is.\r\n\r\nAnyway, if you want to sink something on a page set up as Kent & I
    described, activate the particular frame, hit Control+B, and enter the value in
    \"Inset spacing\"[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sink-1_4330.gif]"
  created: '2009-02-27 14:44:27'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "<cite>how helpful is incomplete, expert level instruction to a person asking
    for help in one of these forums?</cite>\r\n\r\nI would say there is an art to
    giving a person enough so that they can teach themselves through experimentation.
    Specific prescribed solutions are too often used and forgotten, IMO."
  created: '2009-02-27 14:50:22'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Jan -- I don't disagree with your point, which is why I usually use plenty
    of qualifiers in my advice and specifically said above, \".&nbsp;.&nbsp;. suggests
    some possible workarounds for you.\"\r\n\r\nI would need more complete details
    about Michael's specific problems and how he has engineered his document to recommend
    specific fixes. I was merely pointing out an avenue that might prove worth exploring,
    and perhaps also making others in general aware of a technique that has certain
    merits and is worth considering in setting up future projects.\r\n\r\nMy technique
    for subheads is different than what Charles's describes above and I will try to
    illustrate it soon.\r\n\r\nIt is also not fool-proof.\r\n\r\n-- Kent.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-27 16:16:35'
- author:
    name: KatRanPress
    picture: 112227
  body: " <em>how helpful is incomplete, expert level instruction to a person asking
    for help in one of these forums?</em>\r\n\r\nSo far, it's been pretty helpful.
    I've got two new approaches to use for a host of circumstances. I'll probably
    use the text frame options for the 900-page book, and I'll be using the snap-to-grid
    for a bookseller's catalogue I'll be starting in a few minutes. I'm glad to have
    two more tools for different problems.\r\n\r\nThanks!"
  created: '2009-02-27 17:52:19'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Charles, upon reflection, your and Kent's approach is best on a professional
    level, precisely because it is open-ended: you can change any aspect of any style
    at will without suffering any untoward effects. Change point size and leading
    to change the extent of a book when a publisher keeps changing their mind, huh?\r\n\r\nJupiterboy,
    you are quite right. Encouraging people to learn is the best way. Balancing the
    detail with concrete advice is hard, experts tend to hold expert opinions and
    everyone needs to start somewhere.\r\n\r\nMichael, I am glad that you found the
    stuff helpful. The booksellers catalogue is a perfect candidate for the grid use,
    especially if it has a lot of pics. I am such a fan of the baseline grid because
    my jobs were suited to it. Textbooks in two columns with tons of pics and diagrams?
    The last medical atlas I did was 900 pages with more than 2200 pictures and the
    spreads needed some sort of alignment everywhere. It just could not be done without
    the grid. And Charles, it was reasonably scholarly (sorry, could not resist ;-)."
  created: '2009-02-27 21:58:11'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Jan -- Don't get me wrong (or Charles, I suspect): I am a big proponent of
    organizing using a baseline grid. I am just not generally in favor of relying
    on snap-to or align-to-grid commands, because I am distrustful of how space then
    gets handled for floating elements and other exceptions. Past experience is that
    lines will get pushed down or pulled up unexpectedly, and I'm too much of a control
    freak to risk that. \r\n\r\nI certainly don't begrudge those who choose to work
    with snap-to. And I will say that the \"align first line only\" feature is new
    to me, since I developed my working methods many many years ago, before InDesign,
    and never noticed this feature before. And to be able to apply that within a paragraph
    style .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. I can see how that might be useful. \r\n\r\nNo longer resolving
    Michael's initial plea, but because I said I would come back and explain:\r\n\r\nI
    did not have a suitable real-world project close to hand, so this somewhat quick-and-dirty
    example must suffice. This is not presented as a paradigm of excellent design
    specs, but only to demonstrate an \"engineering\" technique.\r\n\r\nHere is an
    example of a heading with space above and below, both inline and occurring at
    the top of the column. When the head comes at the top, the decision here is to
    sink the head, in order to preserve the text alignment on the third baseline while
    preserving the amount of space after.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/BaselineGrid_demo1_3961.png]\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\nHere
    is the same screenshot with margins, baseline grid, and text frames visible.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/BaselineGrid_demo1a_6201.png]\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\nThe
    basal text here is 11/13 pt. The baseline grid, therefore is 13 pt. Text frames
    are defined (via Basic Text Frame object style) to have First Baseline fixed at
    13 pts. The heading is 15/13 pts with 17 pts space above and 9 pts space below:
    17 + 9 = 26 = 2 x 13, thus preserving the grid spacing.\r\n\r\nHowever, here's
    the \"trick\": rather than specify the heading style with 17 pts before and 9
    pts after, I specify the style with 13 pts before and 13 pts after, then baseline
    shift the text down 4 pts. \r\n\r\nWhy? Despite the seeming inelegance of this
    approach, what this allows is that when a head occurs at the top of the column,
    the baseline is perceived by the application to fall directly on the grid. The
    baseline shift achieves the necessary sinkage. That way, I don't have to manually
    override the text frame inset, as in Charles's approach.\r\n\r\nThe work I have
    done has usually been in a much greater state of editorial flux than I suspect
    Charles's manuscripts are. So, I developed a technique where I don't have to do
    manual fiddling for heads at the top of columns (or worse, undoing the manual
    work when the copy reflows due to editorial adjustments).\r\n\r\n-- K."
  created: '2009-02-28 00:34:41'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "<cite>I am distrustful of how space then gets handled for floating elements
    and other exceptions</cite>\r\n\r\nMost apps start to round off at a few decimal
    points, which ultimately catches up to the point system and causes jumps. Maybe
    we will have CAD precision some day."
  created: '2009-02-28 00:37:23'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "A second example, further illustrating a point I made earlier. At the risk
    of basically repeating myself. FWIW.\r\n\r\nThe majority of books that I have
    done (usually classified as trade illustrated reference) involve multiple planes
    of text, illustrations, photos, etc. Page layouts often vary spread by spread.
    So the basic text frame is not necessarily a relatively fixed entity always starting
    at the top and ending at the bottom of the live area. For that reason, I find
    it advantageous to work with the fixed baseline value equal to the baseline grid
    (leading) value. \r\n\r\nIn the following excerpt I have a two-column layout with
    a photo and caption at the head of the second column.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/BaselineGrid_demo2_6270.png]\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\nWith
    margins, baseline grid, and text frames visible:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/BaselineGrid_demo2a_5530.png]\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\nWith
    the default text frame defined with First Baseline fixed at the full value of
    the baseline grid, it's a simple matter to adjust the second column to accommodate
    the photo & caption by pulling the top handle down to snap to the grid. An ad
    hoc text frame created to hold the caption text also snaps at the top to the baseline
    grid, and thus the caption starts neatly on the grid (although the caption leading
    is not the same as the text).\r\n\r\nNo big deal. Just nice and neat. But also
    flexible.\r\n\r\nOne would be correct in noting that this is not anything that
    couldn't also be achieved with judicious application of align-to-grid and align-first-line-only
    properties in paragraph styles rather than text frame properties. Different strokes
    for different folks, as we used to say.\r\n\r\nOkay, enough pontificating from
    me.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-28 00:46:11'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>The work I have done has usually been in a much greater state of editorial
    flux than I suspect Charles\u2019s manuscripts are.</cite>\r\n\r\nI imagine that
    is true, though not because the editors or authors are so careful. Almost all
    the books we set have an index, and that index is usually prepared from first
    proof. The publisher -- well, editors -- take pains to keep pages the same in
    revises, because significant changes can affect that index. And while alterations
    affecting an index isn't our specific problem (it is an editorial problem), viewed
    another way, the whole book is our concern, so we too take pains. If an alteration
    causes copy to change pages, we try to get back to the original pagination as
    soon as possible. You can make or loose lines fairly easily, etc.\r\n\r\nWe probably
    don't do as many two-column books as Kent, but we do enough to pay attention to
    issues affecting them. We probably get more of a mix than most people on Typophile,
    all the way from straight, simple text through illustrated books, to single or
    dual column column text with two footnote streams, one dual column, one single
    column.\r\n\r\nOr worse; I have one with a pub date of July entitled <cite>Ballads
    of the Lords of New Spain</cite>, a transcription of a codex, much of the book
    Nahuatl on the verso, English on the recto; footnotes to the English but not the
    Nahuatl; and no getting ahead  with either language. With a few more complications
    . . .\r\n\r\nNo technique is perfect for all kinds of work. In our shop, we also
    have multiple people working on most jobs, so we probably treasure a consistent
    approach more than most people.\r\n\r\nBut with all that said, it is enlightening
    to see other people's techniques, often there is be something we can use."
  created: '2009-02-28 02:55:26'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "I really like the split of these two approaches to the same problem. I think
    that jobs that require lots of minute differences, such as different leadings
    (11/13 and 8/9 or 9/11), or paragraph spaces (of say 3 or 4 points) the first-line
    snap of the default text box is the way to go. Also for feathering spaces above/below
    heads to align at the bottom (for this I usually have to un-snap the whole page
    or parts of it).\r\n\r\n<em>Past experience is that lines will get pushed down
    or pulled up unexpectedly</em>\r\n\r\nIt is easier to understand the grid operation
    in these simple terms: within the grid (ignoring the page margins or text box
    edges), the only jumps are down, no dimension or space is compressed or lost.
    The element that does not fit into the grid is pushed down onto the first grid
    line that can accomodate it. By moving the whole grid up and down on the page
    (as shown above in the Preferences) the first line fit can be easily and globally
    controlled (this is the equivalent of snapping the first baseline inside the frame
    which, b.t.w., bypasses the grid altogether). Finally, it's really advisable to
    set the grid at a half or a third of body text leading, not on a whole line\u2014
    to obtain fine-enough control.\r\n\r\nThe following bit is really optional and
    only a suggestion for the brave: It is possible to use the grid as the main type
    control. The style definitions can be made truly minimalistic and simplistic:
    only minimum acceptable leading (say 10/11), only minimum acceptable paragraph
    spaces (say 3 mm above, 1 mm below for a heading). Then, by varying the grid the
    whole job can be changed from 10/11 to 10/12.5, 10/13, 10/13.8 to achieve a desired
    look or extent <em>without touching any style definitions again</em>. Assuming
    that other long-document controls are in place, such as properly defined \u2018keeps\u2019,
    a job can be re-flown repeatedly and easily (just do not tell the editors and
    publishers :)\r\n\r\nFinally, adjustments to the layout are then best done (no
    doubt strangely to people with good manners) by using manual overrides, simple
    click on the up arrow will jump the space by the half or third line defined in
    the grid.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/arrows_4653.png]\r\n\r\nIf
    a change is required, select all and click the \u2018Clear overrides\u2019 button,
    and assuming you have been a good person, the only overrides will be these ones,
    and the job is pristine again.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/override_4806.png]"
  created: '2009-02-28 22:48:29'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Venturing far afield from the original question, I'd note we make extensive
    use of paragraph styles. The reason is we consider the *file* to be the end product
    of composition, not a printed book. Paragraph styles can be used for XML tags,
    or at least a start (since the structure of InDesign coding is essentially flat,
    not a tree).\r\n\r\nFor example, text in a numbered chapter is styled \"chapter\",
    text in the introduction is styled \"introduction\", even though both are the
    same -- say 10.2/13.5. Moreover, both are based on \"basic text\", so if a change
    is needed, it is made only in \"basic text\" paragraph style.\r\n\r\nBy extension,
    extracts are \"chapter.extract\" and \"introduction.extract\". If spacing above
    & below is different, we use \"chapter.extract(1,0)\" \"chapter.extract(0,1)\",
    and \"chapter.extract(1,1)\", all based on \"chapter.extract\". You guessed it,
    stuff in parentheses is ignored for processing the text outside the typeset book.\r\n\r\nWe
    try to keep direct formatting to a minimum. That minimizes work needed later for
    a useful *file.* Where direct formatting won't affect the usefulness of the file
    (as in sinking a subhead), fine, we direct format.\r\n\r\nAt first, it is a little
    daunting to be confronted with 30+ paragraph styles to fill in, but really there
    are only a few basic styles the rest are based on. Like most things, you get use
    to it.  \r\n\r\nI'm not advocating any of this for composition, simply pointing
    out that using InDesign styles can be helpful with certain kinds of workflows,
    depending on what you view the end product to be."
  created: '2009-03-01 02:36:18'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Jan -- \r\n\r\nI do understand the principles underlying working with automatic
    align-to-grid. \r\n\r\nMy comment about \"lines pushed or pulled\" was hasty and
    imprecise. You're right: technically, they only really get pushed. When the spacing
    of a floating item does not end up preserving grid spacing, only designated space
    before is honored, and extra space gets added after, so that a following snapped
    element will get pushed down to the next alignment. (And this is exactly the kind
    of automatic space manipulation that I find annoying -- but, hey, the app is just
    doing its job.)\r\n\r\nOn some thread in the past, we had a long discussion about
    the pros & cons of relying on snap to grid. Perhaps you were even part of that
    conversation. I'm not interested in repeating the points I made there. As I said,
    I don't begrudge those who choose to work this way. I do recognize the potential
    power of doing so, and you've been an articulate advocate for the advantages of
    this approach."
  created: '2009-03-01 17:07:45'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "For those who are interested: Here\u2019s a <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/53023\">link
    to the thread</a> that Kent referred to."
  created: '2009-03-01 19:10:58'
date: '2009-02-25 15:53:40'
node_type: forum
title: Type Alignment Issue in InDesign CS2

---
