---
author:
  name: ilovecolors
  picture: 115038
body: "Whenever I write a quote at the end of a sentence and the quote has an end
  period I wonder, is it \r\n\r\n\"quote text.\" ?\r\n\r\nor\r\n\r\n\"quote text.\".
  ?\r\n\r\nor maybe\r\n\r\n\"quote text\". ?\r\n\r\nI think the obvious way would
  be the second one, but then again, it looks really funny, like one of those horizontal
  emoticons =^.^=\r\nWhat are your thoughts on this?"
comments:
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "This comes up quite often as a newbie question, and the answer can be found
    in a style guide for whatever country you live in. U.S. and Canadian style is
    to place periods and commas inside quotation marks always (double first, single
    for quotes inside quotes). There are highly unusual exceptions, as in computer
    code and linguistics, that will surely never affect you.\r\n\r\nThe dominant but
    not sole U.K. style is to place periods and commas inside quotes only if the quote
    is an actual human utterance. (So no androids!) Otherwise outside. Single-double,
    not double-single, is the dominant usage.\r\n\r\nOther countries can barely get
    their acts together in the first place, and I don\u2019t know what system they
    use. \r\n\r\nNonetheless, you <em>cannot</em> just pick and choose an orthography
    based on what you, out of ignorance, think looks nice.\r\n\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe
    Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-02-27 14:10:41'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I don't think two periods are used anywhere.
  created: '2009-02-27 14:19:28'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "It can also denote a sentence end: \u2018This is a complete quoted sentence.\u2019\r\nOr,
    the following quote is \u2018a part of this sentence\u2019."
  created: '2009-02-27 14:34:09'
- author:
    name: ilovecolors
    picture: 115038
  body: "I will skip the discourteous comments from Joe Clark.\r\n\r\nMy question
    arise since I found this old post regarding Erik Spiekermann typo tips (hidden
    under a lot of rss)\r\nhttp://fontfeed.com/archives/erik-spiekermanns-typo-tips/\r\n\r\nHe
    explains that the quotes style he use is an European style, it is found on the
    first comment after the article.\r\n\r\n   It is. But I take issue with the American
    style: I always put\r\n   the period or comma where the context needs it. If the
    quote\r\n   has a point after it, like a complete sentence, it\u2019s included\r\n
    \  in the quote:\r\n\r\n      Groucho Marx said, \u201CI wouldn\u2019t join a
    club that accepted me as a member.\u201D\r\n\r\n   (Now, there should logically
    be a second full point to finish\r\n   the sentence around the quote, but in German,
    we neglect that.) But:\r\n\r\n      He always got gas at the \u201C76\u201D.\r\n\r\n
    \  Putting them inside the closing quote is an aesthetic decision,\r\n   not a
    grammatical one, but it is American usage.\r\n\r\nBest regards,\r\n\r\nElliot\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://ilovecolors.com.ar\">I Love Colors</a>"
  created: '2009-02-27 15:05:42'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "If this is a professional question, the answer is it is an editorial choice,
    not a typesetter's choice. \"Logic\" and \"custom\" are not notions that live
    happily together. Remember Dr. Spock (the one with pointy ears).\r\n\r\nIf you're
    simply expressing a personal viewpoint, yes, do as you choose."
  created: '2009-02-27 15:32:07'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I will skip the discourteous comments from Joe Clark.\r\n\r\n>My question
    arise since I found this old post regarding Erik Spiekermann \r\n\r\nSo you \"skip
    over\" the discourteous Joe Clark to quote from the impeccably well behaved Professor
    Spiekermann. \r\n\r\nAre you holding Canadians to a different standard than Germans?\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-27 16:33:31'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I always put the period or comma where the context needs it. If the quote
    has a point after it, like a complete sentence, it\u2019s included in the quote...</em>\r\n\r\nVery
    sensible. That is the thinking behind the UK convention, and it makes a lot of
    sense.\r\n\r\nIt is also helpful to think about it this way: if an entire sentence
    is a quotation, then all the punctuation of that sentence, including the terminal
    fullstop, is part of that quotation and hence the fullstop belongs within the
    quote marks. If a quotation is only part of a sentence, then the terminal full
    stop belongs to the sentence as a whole and not to the quote, and hence the fullstop
    belongs outside the quote marks.\r\n\r\nMost Canadian practice seems to follow
    the US model, which I consider arbitrary and without grammatical logic. But I'm
    enough of a colonialist to maintain that any UK practice is legitimate in this
    dominion."
  created: '2009-02-27 17:15:06'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: I find that whatever I get settled on some editor makes me change.
  created: '2009-02-27 17:17:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> you <em>cannot</em> just pick and choose an orthography\r\n\r\nSure you
    can.\r\nNon-peons do what they think is right, not what they're told to do.\r\nThis
    is how the world is saved from the idiocy of the horde.\r\n\r\n> some editor makes
    me change.\r\n\r\nWhich is why one must always plant intentional\r\nmistakes,
    so the editor/proofreader feels good.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-27 17:39:30'
- author:
    name: ilovecolors
    picture: 115038
  body: "There's an interesting and extensive article here:\r\n\r\nhttp://owl.english.purdue.edu/handouts/grammar/g_quote.html\r\n\r\nexamining
    every aspect of quotes not only punctuation.\r\nThe article recommends adding
    the period and commas within the quotes, and colons, semicolons, dashes, question
    marks and exclamation points outside only when they apply to the whole sentence.\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://ilovecolors.com.ar\">I Love Colors</a>"
  created: '2009-02-27 18:25:52'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "A distinction should be made -- but seldom is -- between utterances and other
    kinds of text indicated by quote marks, such as cited content, i.e. a distinction
    between\r\n\r\n<em>Jim said, \u2018Praise the Lord, and pass the ammunition.\u2019</em>\r\n\r\nand
    \r\n\r\n<em>On page 36, the author has Jim say \u2018pass the ammunition\u2019.</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    reason for this is that although only part of the first sentence is enclosed in
    quotes, indicating the spoken words, the utterance is the whole meaning of the
    sentence, whereas in the second sentence the cited words are subordinate."
  created: '2009-02-27 19:12:23'
- author:
    name: ilovecolors
    picture: 115038
  body: "I agree John. I can see that you're a very good colonialist since you single
    quotes, LOL. UK almost always uses single quotes and USA uses double quotes.\r\nThanks,
    it has been enlightening.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://ilovecolors.com.ar\">I Love
    Colors</a>"
  created: '2009-02-27 19:47:15'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "I Love Colors \u2013 note the absence of U \u2013 can carry on in ignorance
    if he wants, but any work he typesets will look as ignorant as he is if he doesn\u2019t
    follow the rules of the country in which the type is set. And that\u2019s what
    they are: Rules. You don\u2019t get to pick and choose.\r\n\r\nAnd you don\u2019t
    <em>know</em> from discourteous, kiddo.\r\n\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-03-01 14:37:14'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Joe, there are countries whose governments take a fairly direct interest
    in things like spelling, about which it might be accurate to say that they have
    prescriptive national 'rules' about such things. It is notable, though, that even
    within such countries individual publishers, some of them significant and influential,
    ignore those rules. Recent German spelling reforms are not universally implemented.
    Some Greek publishers continue to use polytonic despite the monotonic system having
    been the official rule since 1982.\r\n\r\nThere are not, in fact, national rules.
    There are widely observed conventions and there are also variations. There are
    indeed rules for e.g. government publications, but in that respect the government
    is just one more publisher, and other publishers may employ variant rules in their
    own house styles.\r\n\r\nI long ago determined that the prevailing British conventions
    for punctuation made more grammatical sense and looked better on the page. So
    that is what I use. This isn't 'ignorance': I know what other conventions are
    common in Canada. I disagree with them, and I'm not generally in favour of doing
    what other people do just because they are doing it."
  created: '2009-03-01 18:39:14'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I agree with John. When typesetting German, whenever I'm given the liberty
    by the editor, I employ pre-spelling reform rules rather than the current \"correct\"
    ones \u2013 they simply make more sense grammatically, and in terms of what people
    are still used to reading. \u2013 Different example: in German it is a rule not
    to set ligatures across word breaks in compounds; but I still do that with certain
    fonts, depending on the actual design of the ligature, and it works just fine.\r\nI
    believe that knowing the rules and abandoning them in some occasions and for good
    reasons does not constitute the same crime as ignoring them and just doing whatever.
    Slavishly adhering to rules without questioning their sense and benefit is much
    worse IMHO."
  created: '2009-03-01 18:52:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "@John: <em>...the prevailing British conventions for punctuation made more
    grammatical sense and looked better on the page.</em>\r\n\r\nHowever, the use
    of single quotes is not compatible with \"smart\" layout software that replaces
    \"hash marks\" with \"curly quotes\". If you had followed the North American convention,
    you would not have made this mistake: \r\n\r\n<em>This isn\u2019t \u2019ignorance\u2019</em>\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-01 18:54:05'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Actually, I believe single quotes are \"compatible,\" as you put it, with
    most \"smart quotes\" layout software, such as used in InDesign, Quark, or even
    Word. Smarty Pants, used here on Typophile, is one of the exceptions in converting
    an opening quotesingle into an apostrophe (quoteright). This works great for abbreviating
    years, such as '09, but not so wonderful for quoting with single marks, as in
    your example.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-01 21:44:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Of course guillemets work better than either single or double \"high quotes\",
    which can be confused with the apostrophe, and generally wreck spacing. I encourage
    the use of guillemets even in English.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-01 22:00:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick, Kent is right. Most smart layout that performs character substitutions
    for \u2018curly quotes\u2019 gets it right. It is only in Typophile that I find
    I have to remember to do this manually.\r\n\r\nIn any case, I'm certainly not
    going to alter my punctuation practices on account of bad software."
  created: '2009-03-01 22:33:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\"...single quotes are \u201Ccompatible,\u201D as you put it, with most
    \u201Csmart quotes\u201D layout software ... or even Word. Smarty Pants, used
    here on Typophile, is one of the exceptions\"</em>\r\n\r\nWhat I meant was that
    although the single quote style works OK for quote marks , it's incompatibility
    is that it screws up abbreviation marks.  But if this problem is solved, as Smarty
    Pants has, then the single-quote style of quote marks doesn't work.\r\n\r\nAs
    the Smarty Pants system is the only way of converting hash marks to curly quotes
    (short of adding a dictionary) and not rotating the apostrophes used in abbreviations,
    and it works with the North American quote style, rather than the UK, it is arguable
    whether the merits of the UK quote style are sufficient to warrant the extinction
    of the \"single-quote-right\" shape of apostrophe, which will probably occur as
    a result of \"curly quote\" layout software.\r\n \r\n"
  created: '2009-03-01 22:42:47'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "<cite>I encourage the use of guillemets even in English.</cite>\r\n\r\nBut
    then how do the rules apply for guillemets in English? When are the singles and
    doubles used, which direction should they point on opening and closing, and how
    are they positioned relative to punctuation? Except for the benefit of not being
    confused with apostrophes and other similar marks, guillemets present the same
    challenges as the more familiar (to most English writers) quotation marks. Are
    not the languages that use guillemets inconsistent with their application from
    one to another as well?"
  created: '2009-03-01 22:45:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Damn it, why can't people everywhere be more the same?! :-)
  created: '2009-03-01 22:52:15'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"Are not the languages that use guillemets inconsistent with their application
    from one to another as well?\"</em>\r\nYup. French has them pointing outwards
    and adds spaces on the inside, German has them pointing inwards with no spaces
    and Switzerland has a mixture of the two (pointing outwards with no spaces).\r\nI
    guess the good news about this is that all those variants work, and are recognized
    as what they are. When Swiss people read German text, I don't think they believe
    the inwards-pointing guillemets are \"wrong\"."
  created: '2009-03-01 22:54:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Jason, I think people will take a few seconds and then know exactly what
    they're looking at when they see guillemets for the first time in English*, and
    after that they'll go with the flow. I would point them outward, but not use single
    guillemets; for nested quoting I would fall back on double high quotes (which
    is what French does I believe). This is in fact also an improvement: resorting
    to nested high quotes (either double-then-single or vice versa) is even more confusing.
    For the two important drawbacks that high quotes suffer from, guillemets are superior;
    and I don't see any drawbacks (after the initial surprise).\r\n\r\n* Oh, and then
    there's this genial hybrid, shown in my\r\n1st post of May 21 here: http://typophile.com/node/20061\r\n\r\nAs
    for confusion across languages, I think context takes care of that 95%.\r\n\r\nAlso:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/33045\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-02 01:56:14'
- author:
    name: ilovecolors
    picture: 115038
  body: 'The guillemets are common in spanish writing (from Spain) and they are also
    used for quoting. The guillemets are not that popular in Latin America. The other
    quotes are used inside guillemets according to the nesting level required. '
  created: '2009-03-02 18:49:50'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "John, we weren\u2019t talking about German, nor were we talking about publishers\u2019
    house styles. As a British English native speaker, you have the right to continue
    using British quotation marks. Canadian English speakers don\u2019t, and I know
    the full list of publishers that maintain half-assed house styles that use British
    quotation marks in Canada. Trust me; they are safely ignored, as are all exceptions
    to <em>the rules</em>.\r\n\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-03-08 19:31:47'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Hrant and Cuttlefish, guillemets are not English-language punctuation marks
    and you\u2019re not going to be able to change that. You can look like a ponce,
    but competent is what you won\u2019t look like.\r\n\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-03-08 19:34:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Joe, where are these rules written down, and under what authority? Where
    does a newcomer to Canadian punctuation conventions go if he wants to learn the
    correct way to do things?\r\n\r\nIn what sense are publishers who use alternative
    conventions, such as British conventions, \u2018safely ignored\u2019? They presumably
    publish books, and presumably people buy and read these books. And since they're
    Canadian publishers, odds are that at least some of them receive government grants,
    despite their punctuation. They might not have any influence over how other Canadians
    use punctuation, but I'm not saying that they should have any influence. I do
    think, however, that variance in punctuation use, so long as the meaning of the
    text is unambiguous -- which is not the case, by the way, when punctuation is
    always placed within the quote marks regardless of whether it was part of the
    quote utterance -- is an acceptable cultural phenomenon, especially in a country
    that prides itself on its diversity."
  created: '2009-03-08 22:02:01'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I did not advocate the use of guillemets in English. I was merely asking,
    if one were to use them in English, by who's standard do you imitate when you
    do use them?\r\n\r\nI do support putting closing punctuation within the quotation
    marks when the quotation contains a complete sentence, and the sentence including
    the quotation comes to an end there, then otherwise punctuating outside them."
  created: '2009-03-08 22:45:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Joe: Mankind owes its progress to ignoring officious twits.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-08 23:49:22'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "John, usage determines rules. Mail me and I'll send you a freebie copy of
    my book on Canadian English spelling. Unlike our excitable Armenian-American friend,
    I actually did my research.\r\n\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-03-10 02:19:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I actually did my research.\r\n\r\nBut somehow not enough to see what's
    right in front of your nose.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-10 02:30:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Joe: <em>...usage determines rules.</em>\r\n\r\nFair enough. Where we disagree,
    I think, is that contravening these rules automatically signals either ignorance
    or incompetence. I think there are solid grammatical reasons why British punctuation
    is superior to Canadian and American punctuation: it provides more accurate information
    about the structure of the text by indicating visually whether punctuation is
    part of the quote or part of an external sentence in which the quote is embedded.\r\n\r\nI'd
    love to have a copy of your book. Thanks! I'll send you my mailing address."
  created: '2009-03-10 18:30:31'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "If \u201Cwhat\u2019s in front of [my] nose\u201D\_means \u201CHrant\u2019s
    in my face again,\u201D let me just say I wish you\u2019d stayed offline longer.
    We were so much happier without you.\r\n\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-03-12 19:10:36'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "John, I think we both know you can dress it up in logic all you want, but
    you\u2019re just arguing for the superiority of the system you grew up with and
    that matches your spoken accent.\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s <a href=\"http://blog.fawny.org/2006/02/08/apostrophe/\"
    title=\"The inferiority of British \u2018house style\u2019\">easy to find counterexamples</a>
    to the claimed superiority of British house style, since English words can begin
    or end with an apostrophe, which is one of the two punctuation marks used for
    first-level quotations in British.\r\n\r\nThe option of using British rules for
    periods and commas but double quotes in first instance is marginally less ridiculous.\r\n\r\n\u2014
    \ \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-03-12 19:13:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "In the realm of type design (so not really part of grammar) I've advocated
    pointing all of opening/closing single/double quotes up, and leaving the apostrophe
    pointing down. I've only done it once myself however.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-12 19:31:13'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Joe, the <em>Christmas Rappin\u2019</em> example is great. Yes, the \u2019\u2019,
    sequence looks silly, but it is also decipherable. In the US/Canadian setting,
    I'm left thinking that both the comma and the apostrophe might be part of the
    song title. I'd rather have something look odd but be decipherable to a clear
    an unambiguous meaning than have it look misleadingly sensible but actually failing
    to provide unambiguous meaning.\r\n\r\n\u201CAnd, of course, you can get the same
    \u2018Christmas Rappin\u2019\u2019 situation in US/Canadian usage if the reference
    occurs within a quote.\u201D"
  created: '2009-03-13 04:45:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> so not really part of grammar\r\n\r\nActually I should know better than
    to offer such a qualification, because\r\nIt's Not So Simple\u2122. There is no
    purity - no way to decide all the time for\r\neverybody if a mark on the paper
    is one symbol or the other; in some cases\r\nthe ambiguity is great enough that
    some threshold is crossed. Specifically I\r\noffer that favorite \"hybrid\" of
    mine from that other thread - something I've\r\ncalled \"quotemets\":\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/quotemets_6067.gif]\r\n\r\nSo
    are those quotes, or guillemets? They look like quotes (although\r\nthey're mirrored,
    not 6/9) except they're not high enough... They\r\nlook like guillemets, except
    for those knobs... Typographically they\r\ncan't be \"incorrect\", but can they
    even be grammatically \"incorrect\"\r\nif you can't convince enough people they're
    not really quotes (if it\r\nwas English text) or guillemets (for that French text)?\r\n\r\nVery
    often, even if you have adopted strict rules and want very\r\nmuch to follow them,
    you can't, because it escapes your realm.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-13 05:24:56'
date: '2009-02-27 13:58:46'
title: Quotes questions ." or .". ?

---
