---
author:
  name: Plaidjaney
body: Greetings my friends. I would like to familiarize myself with sans fonts (I
  seem to have a problem with differentiation of sans), so much so that I can recognize
  them and name them and, hopefully, know what my designs need in a more timely fashion.
  Can you please tell me different ways to familiarize myself with them, besides use
  of course, that can better train my eye? Thank you so much for your help, as always.
  I am a sponge-impart your wisdom!
comments:
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: Designing in a specific genre always helps, that way one always pays careful
    attention to the way other designers construct their faces. Bookmarking/filing
    things you like also helps build a mental library of faces.
  created: '2009-02-28 17:33:55'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Read Fontbook while you\u2019re on the can. "
  created: '2009-02-28 17:49:09'
- author:
    name: Plaidjaney
  body: '1985-Very good idea. James Puckett-I laughed out loud at this one. '
  created: '2009-02-28 18:07:35'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: "Here's a cheat sheet for spotting characteristics that differentiate sans
    serifs:\r\n<li>Uniform stroke weight, or some variation between thick and thin?</li>\r\n<li>Are
    <strong>C, G, O, Q, e,</strong> and <strong>o</strong> circular, oval, or are
    sides slightly flattened?</li>\r\n<li>Compare the forms of the <strong>a</strong>
    and <strong>g</strong>.</li>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AsAndGs_3514.JPG]\r\n<li>Compare
    the shape of the bowls on <strong>B</strong> and <strong>P</strong>.</li>\r\n<li>Compare
    the shape of the lower-right stroke of the <strong>R</strong>.</li>\r\n<li>Compare
    the shape of the tail on the <strong>Q</strong>.</li>\r\n<li>Compare the cross-stroke
    of the <strong>G</strong>, and whether there is a spur at the lower-right corner
    of the <strong>G</strong>.</li>\r\n<li>Compare the way the strokes intersect on
    <strong>K</strong> and <strong>k</strong>.</li> \r\n<li>Compare the shape of the
    bowls on <strong>b, d, p,</strong> and <strong>q</strong>.</li>\r\n<li>Compare
    the shape of the ascenders and cross-strokes on <strong>f</strong> and <strong>t</strong>,
    and whether <strong>t</strong> curves to the right at the foot.</li>\r\n<li>Compare
    the shape of the descender on <strong>y</strong>.</li>\r\n<li>Compare the dots
    on <strong>i</strong> and <strong>j</strong>: round, square, or diamond?.</li>\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-28 18:26:35'
- author:
    name: tearsforsappho
    picture: 115158
  body: "Yeah, i totally just cmd+shift+4'd that cheat sheet.  Thanks!\r\n\r\nI <em>already</em>
    read font book on the can! Its called dedication."
  created: '2009-02-28 19:27:24'
- author:
    name: Plaidjaney
  body: 'This is fantastic. I''m printing this out. I''m going to make a document
    of fonts showing the letters you''ve listed above and study the differences. Thanks
    so much! '
  created: '2009-02-28 19:48:15'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Descender on y: Helvetica or Univers\r\nBowl on a: Helvetica/Univers and
    other Frutiger typefaces/Stone Sans"
  created: '2009-02-28 23:23:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "A little history wouldn't hurt.\r\nMany of the types used today have been
    around a while, and have interesting cultural connections.\r\nFor instance, Chris
    Burke's book \"Renner\" shows how the circumstances of Paul Renner's life came
    together to inform the design of Futura. So you start to get an idea of why the
    designer made the letters the shapes they are, and what you see in a letter shape
    becomes a microcosm, full of meaning.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/books/graphicdesign-history\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-01 07:27:57'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Get FontExplorer and start organizing your fonts according to style, era,
    etc. It forces you to actually LOOK at a typeface for specific features, and then
    also to understand what those features mean and where they fit in.\r\n\r\nA Brief
    History of the Printed Word is also a good read.\r\n\r\n@james\r\nYou can hold
    the Fontbook while on the can? You're a better man than I, that's for sure :)"
  created: '2009-03-02 16:54:45'
- author:
    name: Plaidjaney
  body: "paragraph-Thank you for this-I'm adding these notes to Publishing Mojo's
    list.\r\n\r\nNick-This is great information and thank you for the link. Getting
    to know the fonts personal stories is a great suggestion. I always think of the
    fonts having certain personalities so attaching a history will help in my recognition!
    \r\n\r\nDan-I use suitcase presently, but I'm going to look at this FontExplorer.
    What do you like about it? I never thought to organize for style, era.\r\n\r\nThese
    are great suggestions; this is why I love this site. Thanks again."
  created: '2009-03-02 17:58:14'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "@Plaidjaney\r\nSuitcase will work well for organizing your fonts. I use FEX
    because it works well for my purposes, and is free.\r\n\r\nAs to understanding
    the history of the types, it will also help you as a designer because you will
    then understand the original intended use, the philosophical outlook of the era
    in which the type came from, etc. Not that you have to only use type for their
    original purposes, but it certainly helps to know the context of where a font
    came from so you can contrast it or understand its use.\r\n\r\n(For an example
    of that, look at the thread about the [[http://typophile.com/node/55323|Rocky
    Mountain News nameplate]] where Nick explains the choice of Minion vs. the standard
    newspaper font.)"
  created: '2009-03-02 18:17:06'
- author:
    name: Plaidjaney
  body: I agree. I have no formal education in fonts (my course of study was illustration),
    I just go by feel. I think by scheduling some study-time into my day, I will further
    develop my talents. I'm going to your link now-thanks!
  created: '2009-03-02 18:30:11'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "You might enjoy these online articles, Janet:\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.designer-daily.com/alternatives-to-your-favorite-sans-serif-typefaces-1292\">Alternatives
    to Your Favorite Sans Serif Typefaces [Updated with Specimens]</a>, on Designer
    Daily.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://fontfeed.com/archives/helvetica-and-alternatives-to-helvetica/\">Helvetica
    and Alternatives to Helvetica</a>, by Stephen Coles, over at The FontFeed.\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.creativepro.com/article/dot-font-not-your-father-s-sans-serif\">Not
    Your Father's Sans Serif</a>, by John D. Berry, which is about humanist sans serifs.\r\n\r\nAnother
    article on the same subject: <a href=\"http://www.graphic-design.com/Type/bergsland/humanist.html\">What
    is a humanist sans, and why should we care?</a>, by David Bergsland.\r\n\r\nFinally,
    an article by Adrian Frutiger, designer of Univers, Frutiger, OCR B, and Serifa,
    among many others: <a href=\"\">The History of Linear, Sans Serif Typefaces</a>.
    This one is split up into 4 pages.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-03 00:48:43'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "Ricardo, that last link is shooting a blank. \r\n\r\nYou can view the article
    [[http://www.linotype.com/2258/thehistoryoflinearsansseriftypefaces.html|here]]."
  created: '2009-03-03 01:23:14'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "@dangayle: you web designers just don\u2019t have the muscles that hard core
    geeks build to to get our old ATF and Linotype books off the shelves."
  created: '2009-03-03 01:30:43'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Ricardo, that last link is shooting a blank.</em>\r\n\r\nWhoops... It's
    almost like that drawing of the snake eating its own tail... :-D Thanks for catching
    that <em>and</em> for posting the correct link, sir. Much obliged.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ouroboros1_5907.jpg]"
  created: '2009-03-03 05:11:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You probably shouldn't look at sans separate from serif.\r\nI'd start by
    reading this one of the triumvirate:\r\n\"Anatomy of a Typeface\" by A Lawson.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-03 05:45:56'
- author:
    name: microspective
    picture: 111866
  body: "@hrant <em>triumvirate</em>\r\n\r\nWhat comprises said triumvirate? I'm assuming
    Lawson and Bringhurst make 2/3, but who's number three? Lupton? (That would make
    my big three). White? Tchishold? Someone else I might be missing?\r\n\r\n@Plaidjaney\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Thinking-Type-Practical-Philosophy-Typography/dp/1581153848/ref=sr_1_3?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1236104884&sr=1-3\"><strong>Thinking
    in Type</strong></a> from Alex White taught me a lot in the beginning. Silly cover,
    fantastic, well-written content with great examples. Good luck!"
  created: '2009-03-03 18:31:10'
- author:
    name: Plaidjaney
  body: "Ricardo- thank you so much for these links. They will help a lot. \r\n\r\nMicrospective-this
    book sounds great. Thank you for providing this!\r\n\r\nThanks all. School's in
    session!"
  created: '2009-03-03 18:45:45'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I think Walter Tracy is the third general in the triumvirate.\r\n\r\nMake
    yourself flash cards - sample on the front, name/designer/date on the back. Review
    2-3/day until you never guess wrong. No peeking. You can use [[http://pomegranate.stores.yahoo.net/k171.html|these]]
    the same way, if you want to go beyond sans serifs."
  created: '2009-03-03 19:16:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I think Walter Tracy is the third general in the triumvirate.\r\n\r\nYup.\r\nThere's
    a Typophile wiki, somewhere.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-03 19:23:53'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: '[[triumvirate]]'
  created: '2009-03-03 19:54:50'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: 'This for later: http://ilovetypography.com/fontgame/'
  created: '2009-03-03 22:52:36'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: '[[http://www.deep.co.uk/games/font_game/|The Deep Font Challenge]] is fun
    too.'
  created: '2009-03-04 00:23:00'
- author:
    name: Plaidjaney
  body: "All these suggestions are great. Keep them coming. I know there are lurkers
    out there who need this info, too. \r\n\r\nI was on one of the suggested links
    and it lead me to this:\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sans-serif\r\n\r\nI
    think that this is a good description of the different types of sans."
  created: '2009-03-04 01:34:32'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "triumvirate\r\n\r\nthat was a Compugraphic version of Helvetica in the 1980s.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2009-03-04 02:04:48'
- author:
    name: Plaidjaney
  body: Question-so is Helvetica a Grotesque or Geometric? The wiki info is conflicting...
  created: '2009-03-04 04:49:50'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Question-so is Helvetica a Grotesque or Geometric? The wiki info is
    conflicting...</cite>\r\n\r\nNeither. It\u2019s a (some would say the quintessential)
    neo-grotesque."
  created: '2009-03-04 05:18:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'd just call it a grotesque. In more ways than one.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-04 05:28:49'
- author:
    name: microspective
    picture: 111866
  body: "@ <em>In more ways than one.</em>\r\n\r\n(*rimshot*)"
  created: '2009-03-04 14:24:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...neo-grotesque.</em>\r\n\r\nDoes that make Avant Garde neo-geometric?\r\nAnd
    Myriad neo-humanist?\r\n\r\n\"Neo-\" is just packaging, glamming up a retread."
  created: '2009-03-04 17:34:36'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Doesn't "neo" refer to the humanist features in an otherwise grotesque design?
    (And obiviously translates as "new".)
  created: '2009-03-04 21:56:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Doesn\u2019t \u201Cneo\u201D refer to the humanist features in an otherwise
    grotesque design? </em>\r\n\r\nI'm not sure what it means. As Janet observes,
    there seems to be some debate as to whether the prefix is taxonomic (denoting
    physical features) or phylogenetic (denoting evolutionary provenance).\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-04 22:40:56'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Doesn\u2019t \u201Cneo\u201D refer to the humanist features in an otherwise
    grotesque design?</cite>\r\n\r\nNeo-grotesque refers to the intentional removal
    of idiosyncrasies and humanist features from the pre-1957 grotesques. The most
    obvious example, horizontal stroke terminals throughout, appears in all three
    of the original neo-grotesques, Helvetica, Folio, and Univers. The inward turns
    of terminals found in the British grotesques disappears, as do most examples of
    asymmetric stroke widths such as those found in the Benton gothics. The design
    of the neo-grotesques is also a function of the way the counter spaces can seem
    to lock the letters into place and vice-versa (see Mike Parker\u2019s interview
    in Helvetica).\r\n\r\nSome of the old grotesques have been redesigned, and more
    added, since 1957, incorporating features of the neo-grotesques (such as Lange\u2019s
    redesign of Akzidenz). So when the term is applied outside of that very specific
    historical context, its meaning starts to fall apart."
  created: '2009-03-04 23:06:25'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: '@Nick: I don''t really understand how the "neo-" part could be denoting physical
    features.'
  created: '2009-03-04 23:10:19'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>pre-1957 grotesques</em>\r\nIs Helvetica really *that* historical, or
    is 1957 a phototype-related date?\r\n\r\nCraig: Doesn't any \"neo\"-ization, that
    is, revival/\"reconception\", in a way, imply a new (re-)interpretation that can/will
    also manifest itself in terms of a slightly different formal vocabulary?"
  created: '2009-03-04 23:46:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "James: <em>Neo-grotesque refers to...</em>\r\n\r\nThat is indeed the way
    that the term is understood by some people, but it's overblown.\r\nHelvetica and
    Folio are traditional grotesques, nicely and consistently executed, that's all.\r\nAll
    the features considered to be Neo were already present in the 24 pt size of Akzidenz
    Grotesk, prior to Helvetica &c.\r\nWe don't call new, slicker versions of other
    historical genres Neo (e.g. 20th century Bodonis are not Neo-didone).\r\nBut for
    historical reasons, certain mid-20th century grotesques get the nod.\r\n\r\nBetter
    fix the Wiki, James!\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-05 00:34:08'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "A search on Google brought up <a href=\"http://www.paratype.com/help/class/default.asp?ClassCode=22000\">ParaType's
    definition of Neo-Grotesque</a>.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-05 01:16:18'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "<cite>Grotesques are more elegant than their predecessors and hardly have
    any distinguishing features</cite>\r\n\r\nThey're distinguished and are not distinguished... "
  created: '2009-03-05 02:51:47'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>Doesn\u2019t any \u201Cneo\u201D-ization, that is, revival/\u201Dreconception\u201D,
    in a way, imply a new (re-)interpretation that can/will also manifest itself in
    terms of a slightly different formal vocabulary?</em>\r\n\r\nWell, nothing is
    ever exactly the same way twice, but I think \"neo-\" says much more about history
    (something that was around before is now around again) than about form. The newness
    of neoclassicism in interior design, as an example, says to me not \"this is a
    new kind of classicism, different from the old classical art\" but rather \"this
    is classicism again (like the old classical art), different from the Rococo styles
    that preceded it.\"\r\n\r\nThat leaves open to argument the applicability of \"neo-\"
    here - it would seem to me to hinge on how fair it would be to say that other
    non-grotesques (Gill, German geometrics) had eclipsed the older grotesques in
    the 30s and 40s so that the use of those grotesques (and cleaned-up manifestations
    like Helvetica etc.) in the 50s was \"new.\" "
  created: '2009-03-05 03:48:04'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>All the features considered to be Neo were already present in the 24
    pt size of Akzidenz Grotesk\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nThey were all present in plenty
    of typefaces. But they were not all carefully worked into the entire font to produce
    the dramatically regimented designs that made the neo-grotesques an innovation\u2014for
    example, in the 24-point AG terminals are a mix of angles and horizontals and
    the widths of b, d, p and q create counters that create a less monotonous color.
    There is something new and special in the neo-grotesque faces\u2014a Swiss obsession
    with regulation that borders on psychotic."
  created: '2009-03-05 04:56:59'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Pound this board. I have learned a lot\u2026\r\n\r\npbc\r\n\r\nMy mind is
    subject to change without notice, I should know, but don't\u2026"
  created: '2009-03-05 06:55:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...something new and special in the neo-grotesque faces\u2014a Swiss
    obsession with regulation that borders on psychotic...</em>\r\n\r\nLeveraging
    nationalistic stereotypes in a typeface: that's how Haas Standard was marketed
    as Helvetica, puffing up its attributes.\r\n\r\nThere were many polished grotesques
    produced in Europe during the 1950s and 60s which may be considered part of the
    International Style. Univers and Folio were somewhat more original than Helvetica.
    But all in all, there's not a huge amount to distinguish them from types of the
    traditional grotesque genre that had never gone out of commission, such as Monotype
    Grotesque (1930s, English, with single-storey \"g\" and a beautifully smooth and
    designy Light weight well suited to the International Style). Futura and Gill
    Sans, the paragons of the Geometric and Humanist classes of sans serif, were formally
    far more innovative, as would be Frutiger, which is yet to be named to the head
    of its class.\r\n\r\nNina is onto something with mention of phototype. The fact
    that the discreet detailing of the Neo-grotesques is their distinguishing feature
    may well be a result of media convergence at that time, when new types were being
    produced for a variety of technologies, with the qualities of understatement that
    looked slick and professional in display media (typositor, dry transfer, &c.)
    transporting to text. \r\n\r\nHere's Akzidenz Grotesk from the 1954 Berthold specimen:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AG_4583.jpg]\r\n\r\nThe
    smaller fonts have the funky terminals James refers to; the larger sizes are more
    consistently detailed. Note how the angled terminal of \"e\" in the 20 pt gets
    perpendicular in the 24 pt.\r\n\r\nClean it up, increase the x-height, and voil\xE0
    the neo-grotesque Helvetica. Twenty years later American designers did the same
    thing for some old faces at ITC (Garamond, Cheltenham, &c.) \r\n\r\nIn the 1980s
    Headliners International prefixed all their Font names with \"Neo-\", and trademarked
    it. "
  created: '2009-03-05 08:37:10'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I suspect that the \"Neo-Grotesque\" wave, at least originally here in Switzerland,
    was heavily triggered both by the advent of phototype (which made it so much easier
    / more cost-effective to produce new fonts), and the grotesque-heavy Swiss Style,
    which seemed to suggest a huge market for such types &ndash; which in fact wasn't
    really there at first.\r\nAs Hans Neuburg wrote in Neue Grafik (No. 4, December
    1959, p. 54; my translation):\r\n<cite>\"Nobody will seriously deny the necessity
    of designing typefaces that satisfy the beliefs of our times, as long as they
    constitute a meaningful expansion and enhancement of the existing inventory. However,
    it is questionable if this necessity also extends to the design and release of
    such a large number of grotesque types in the 'old style', and if this makes sense
    from an economic perspective (not addressing the issue of originality at all)\u2026
    The experiences the foundries have made so far, as well as current and past design
    trends, rather seem to hint at self-imposed limitation [in terms of the number
    of typefaces used].\"</cite>"
  created: '2009-03-05 09:45:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>... hint at self-imposed limitation ...</em>\r\n\r\nSeems like a lot
    of foundries had the same idea at the same time.\r\nWas Neuberg suggesting restrictive
    trade practice -- a cartel?\r\n\r\nNonetheless, by 1977 Haas was ready to take
    another shot at the genre with Unica.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-05 17:18:00'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"Was Neuberg suggesting restrictive trade practice \u2014 a cartel?\"</em>\r\nThat
    would surprise me &ndash; I read that as a comment on how very deeply rooted Akzidenz
    Grotesk was in the original \"Swiss\" style of design. It seems like a number
    of designers back in 1957 were a bit perplexed at the sudden repertoire of new
    grotesques, and some maintained they were so happy with Akzidenz they weren't
    really in that dire a need of alternatives. Karl Gerstner was quoted in TM 2 in
    February 1972 (!) as saying, \"That feature of Akzidenz which is sometimes criticized
    as 'imbalance', we see as its biggest merit: its liveliness, its (literally) original
    freshness.\" Neuburg too, incidentally, appears to have been a huge fan of AG,
    calling it \"one of the cleanest (!) and most noble grotesques\"."
  created: '2009-03-05 19:12:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Right, I see what he means by \"self-imposed limitations\": referring not
    to foundries limiting their output, but to typographers being reluctant to use
    a larger repertoire of faces.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-05 19:53:57'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: I think so, yes. I was being a bit long-winded. :)
  created: '2009-03-05 20:01:09'
- author:
    name: Plaidjaney
  body: 'Hi all! Okay, so I''m hard at work studying all of your great suggestions.
    I''ve played all of the great font games, read almost all of the articles, just
    received my font book so I can read it "on the can", and am the only psycho-woman
    at my gym comparing sans font specimens while walking on the treadmill. I would
    like to know if anyone knows of a font site that lets you compare fonts side by
    side? Also, if there is a font site that pairs examples text and display? Sort
    of like, if you like this, you might want to try this?, type of thing? As always,
    thank you. '
  created: '2009-03-10 22:14:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Josh Darden and Dalton Maag have type testers that show several fonts together.
  created: '2009-03-11 01:44:18'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Typotheque has a \"two-storey\" type tester too.\r\n\r\nThere might be something
    like this in English too: In German there's a fun little <a href=\"http://www.typografie.de/Unsere-Buecher/Typografie/Wiebke-Hoeljes/Dreiklaenge-SchriftMischMusterbuch::145.html\">sample
    book titled \"Dreikl\xE4nge\"</a> (\"triads\"). Each page has a headline plus
    two blocks of text set in the same font, but then all the pages are cut into thirds,
    so just leafing through, you can combine the samples in all kinds of different
    ways (headline/text/text). Doesn't contain a huge lot of fonts though, more like
    \"classics\"/well-known ones."
  created: '2009-03-11 09:41:21'
- author:
    name: Plaidjaney
  body: 'Thanks Nick. You know, altaira, this book has given me a great idea to make
    my own version of this book to test-drive my fonts. '
  created: '2009-03-11 16:41:53'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Also, if there is a font site that pairs examples text and display? Sort
    of like, if you like this, you might want to try this?, type of thing?</em>\r\n\r\nJanet,
    this probably won't be much help, but Will Harris's site has a page that lists
    pairs of sans serifs and serifs that work well together: <a href=\"http://www.will-harris.com/typepairs.htm\">Typefaces
    that work together</a>. Unfortunately, it doesn't let you see samples of the faces!
    That's the drawback.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://new.myfonts.com/\">MyFonts</a> lets
    you see typefaces that are similar to the one you're looking at, but does not
    match display with text."
  created: '2009-03-12 01:10:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: If an online typetester only shows one font at a time, open up another window
    in your browser.
  created: '2009-03-12 01:12:58'
date: '2009-02-28 17:10:32'
node_type: forum
title: Best way to familiarize yourself with fonts?

---
