---
author:
  name: tearsforsappho
  picture: 115158
body: "Boss: So, how are those layouts coming? (walks up behind, and stands uncomfortably
  close)\r\n\r\nDesigner: I am almost ready to send these to the client for review.
  \ \r\n\r\nBoss: (leans in veryvery close) Hmm, I don't know about this.  I'm not
  sure I like this type.  \r\n\r\nDesigner: Oh? (sigh) What don't you like about it?\r\n\r\nBoss:
  You designers are always using this kind of type with the pokey parts on them...\r\n\r\nDesigner:
  Um, you mean serifs?\r\n\r\nBoss: Yeah, whatever.  I don't like type with those
  things on them.  Can't you use something more funky or splashy?\r\n\r\nDesigner:
  Well...\r\n\r\nBoss: I don't want to see type with those things on them anymore.
  Show me something else before you leave.  Also, I think you should take *&^%$ job
  home with you and show me 3 versions in the morning.\r\n\r\nDesigner sighs heavily
  and looks at the clock: 4:45 (shop supposedly closes at 5)\r\n\r\nOh bother."
comments:
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: 'Pointless: 3.9 mm with 4.2 mm leading :)'
  created: '2009-03-03 22:48:00'
- author:
    name: pica pusher
    picture: 111287
  body: Well you've got my attention. In what context did this conversation take place?
  created: '2009-03-03 23:35:45'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Why are you posting this to typophile? You could have spent the time looking
    for a better job, or redesigning the layout using search and replace. '
  created: '2009-03-03 23:54:20'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>You could have spent the time looking for a better job\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nTrust
    me, these days that\u2019s a pretty pointless waste of time.\r\n\r\nBut FWIW,
    keeping a few stock grids around and styling every single level of a document
    makes it easy to churn out three new options in no time."
  created: '2009-03-04 00:16:47'
- author:
    name: tearsforsappho
    picture: 115158
  body: "@paragraph: It took me a minute, but lol.\r\n\r\nRegrettably this conversation
    took place this afternoon, between myself and one of my the owners.  I was putting
    together some options for a designer product lookbook, so it was basically only
    a headline and a tagline for each page.  It could have been worse, of course.
    \ I managed to put together a couple of other options before I left, I was just
    so frustrated that I had to get it out before I could even see straight.\r\n\r\n@sii:
    I have to go with James here.  After all of the folks I have seen laid off lately,
    I am glad to have <em>any</em> job, even if it is run by idiots.\r\n\r\nFunny,
    I thought moving here (NYC) from FL was a good career move.\r\n\r\n@James: I am
    definitely going to put more things together in my downtime.  On my own comp,
    of course."
  created: '2009-03-04 00:53:20'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Funny, I thought moving here (NYC) from FL was a good career move.</em>\r\n\r\nUsually,
    there's a lot of work to be found in NYC, but we're in the middle of a huge crisis
    -- that's certainly not your fault. Or the city's. (Well, maybe there are a few
    culprits <em>in</em> the city, but I digress.) :-)\r\n\r\nNobody knows when things
    will pick up again, but in the meantime, do work on your own comps and portfolio
    pieces. At some point you'll be able to find a better job and leave the crappy
    one behind."
  created: '2009-03-04 02:27:53'
- author:
    name: tearsforsappho
    picture: 115158
  body: "I've been here just over 2 years now, and I'm glad that I got a job in the
    field.  I just wonder if paying my dues here will help me out down the road.  This
    studio has a reputation for late, mistake-ridden work, which is the result of
    poor management.  I hope it winds up being something i even want on my resume.
    \ I've worked here over a year now, and I think I learned a great deal; even if
    much of it is how NOT to do things.\r\n\r\nIn any case, thank you for the encouragement,
    Ricardo.  I needed it today!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-04 03:09:04'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite> Funny, I thought moving here (NYC) from FL was a good career move.</cite>\r\n\r\nOy
    vey, don\u2019t make me regret moving here!\r\n\r\n<cite>This studio has a reputation
    for late, mistake-ridden work, which is the result of poor management. I hope
    it winds up being something i even want on my resume.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe upside
    to working for a studio like that is that most designers won\u2019t have any reason
    to have heard of it, and you\u2019ll be learning plenty about what to not do after
    you go elsewhere."
  created: '2009-03-04 03:26:21'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Plenty of clients to steal and delight when you finally move on.
  created: '2009-03-04 03:50:15'
- author:
    name: Dr jack
    picture: 115796
  body: "<em>\"This studio has a reputation for late, mistake-ridden work, which is
    the result of poor management\".</em>\r\n\r\nWell, you're a link in the chain,
    uphold your end, don't be a part of the mistake-ridden work, and sleep conscience
    free.\r\n\r\nGee, and 4.45pm are the hard yards, are they?\r\nThen pull some all
    nighters, and have more work then you have physical time to do it.\r\n\r\nIf all
    you have to worry about is 'serif' substitution you're on easy street!\r\nSuck
    it up...it only gets harder. But you'll get better.\r\n\r\n<em>*rolls eyes*</em> "
  created: '2009-03-04 04:07:20'
- author:
    name: tearsforsappho
    picture: 115158
  body: "Oh no, 4:45 is definitely not the \"hard yards\".  I am (past 12est) still
    up on those \"three versions\", and for me this is an early evening (as in i might
    get 4 hours).  I am the only person in the shop who takes work home, and often
    I do so more than 3 nights a week.\r\n\r\nUntil I started there, they were still
    using Quark 6.5, and CS for retouching and layout.  Additionally, they were shooting
    images (for hi-res) in jpg.  I have done my best to bring them up to date, and
    go on press with every print job I run.  Even still, mistakes happen.  I have
    yet to figure out how to prepare for the owner randomly realizing that the 300+
    pg book he is supposed to run the next day is too large to fit economically on
    the paper he bought; subsequently giving me 2 hours to shrink the whole thing
    by .25 on one side.  This is of course not to mention the times he gets angry
    at himself (the source of most of the dysfunction), and throws the laser printer
    or the postal scale.\r\n\r\nI will continue to work hard, and push myself, because
    that's what I do.  The part that stung me this afternoon was that after all i
    am expected to do (retouching, concept, layout, illustration, copy writing, etc),
    my retarded boss gets indignant about a \"pokey thing\".  As if to say the sum
    total of my knowledge doesn't prepare me to be a designer simply because i chose
    a serif.  Not that he can even <em>say</em> serif.\r\n\r\nI know that all of this
    will make me better, I just don't want to be colored by the mistakes i try so
    hard to prevent.  I don't want to get to the place where I don't care anymore.\r\n\r\n@sii
    & James: I sure hope that's how it ends up! "
  created: '2009-03-04 05:40:41'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>I don\u2019t want to get to the place where I don\u2019t care anymore.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    know exactly what you're talking about... I've left jobs that paid well for that
    reason!"
  created: '2009-03-04 05:51:10'
- author:
    name: James Deux
  body: "<cite>Funny, I thought moving here (NYC)</cite>\r\n\r\nWelcome to the Northeast!\r\n\r\nAdmission
    at the toll gate: Your soul. \r\n\r\nEDIT:\r\n\r\nAnd I sympathize completely.\r\n\r\n\"It
    has too much white space.\"\r\n\"It's called negative space.\"\r\n\"Well there's
    too much of it. Fix it.\"\r\n\r\nOr my personal favorite:\r\n\"It could use a
    border.\"\r\n\r\n/sigh\r\n\r\nI preface most of my first-round mockups with the
    following:\r\n\"Virtually everything you see is a <cite>conscious decision</cite>
    on my part.\r\n\r\nIf you don't <cite>like it</cite>, that's one thing. If you
    think it's an oversight, however, it isn't.\"\r\n\r\nThough I usually answer to
    my peers, not my boss. So I wish you luck!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-07 03:36:24'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: This is going to happen a lot when you're working for someone else (boss,
    client, etc). It's just going to. The best thing you can do is learn from it.
    When someone frequently makes requests like this (assuming it's more an uninformed/aesthetic
    complaint) it can help a lot to do some research/education. Pull some examples
    of things you think are designed well but are someone relevant to the project.
    Pull some examples of similar things and compare what your boss wants to it.
  created: '2009-03-07 04:21:12'
- author:
    name: tearsforsappho
    picture: 115158
  body: "@james: Perhaps that is included in the toll for the NJ Turnpike?  I must
    have missed some fine print somewhere.  It is likely set in comic sans, which
    would explain my oversight.\r\n\r\nYour preface is on point.  What you said is
    definitely what I think, but I doubt that my boss would be open to hearing anything
    so blunt.  I'm not beyond considering that my solution might have rough spots,
    but there is no need to belittle me.  \r\n\r\nand RE: neg space, lol.  I think
    I have heard that one before myself!\r\n\r\n@ Jackson, that is a nice tip.  I
    am trying to find ways to streamline the concept phase, and perhaps that could
    be of assistance.  It is just so frustrating, because in this studio, everyone
    is senior to me, and gets to put in their $.02, even the accountant.  There is
    nothing that boils my blood more than someone who uses quickbooks for a living
    telling me im doing it all wrong."
  created: '2009-03-07 21:34:11'
- author:
    name: BeauW
    picture: 116201
  body: "Sympathy.\r\n\r\nI honestly don't know any designers who don't deal with
    this kind of stuff. Either bosses or clients. Non-designers see the world different.\r\n\r\nMy
    favorites from personal experience:\r\n\"Here is a list of the points I want you
    to emphasize.\" 8 points to be made to stand out in a quarter-page ad.\r\nSecond,
    an insistence that I fit a two inch logo into a one inch box- without changing
    the size of either. :(\r\n\r\n<cite>\"use something more funky or splashy?\"\r\n\r\nI
    hear that often. It usually means, 'do it different, then we'll have you redo
    it the same corporate boring way tomorrow.'"
  created: '2009-03-08 20:45:25'
- author:
    name: tearsforsappho
    picture: 115158
  body: "lol.  Exactly.  \r\n\r\nI have come to realize that \"we want something completely
    different\" actually means that they want something exactly the same, with a slightly
    different font.  There is a sharp learning curve on that one."
  created: '2009-03-08 23:52:24'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "The guy who taught me layout said, \"Always leave one obvious 'eror' for
    your client or boss to find and tell you to fix\". Especially if he/she answers
    to somebody higher up.  It justifies their position if they can tell you to correct
    something. And if you put something for them to tell you to correct in there on
    purpose, they'll leave the rest of your work alone. \r\n\r\nIt works sometimes.
    \r\n:o)\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2009-03-09 03:19:56'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Tracking
  created: '2009-03-09 03:26:38'
- author:
    name: Dr jack
    picture: 115796
  body: "I think the hard part early on for Designers working within Companies is
    learning to let go. If it's your own business that fine to strive to do the best
    and stop when you are happy with the work.\r\n\r\nI've had clients and bosses
    stand over me as I've worked and nearly direct me with every node placement, only
    for them to say they love the crap they directed me in doing.\r\nIn times like
    this I couldn't approach it from a French Chef's point of view and take the work
    to heart and start jumping up and down that the work should be better. I just
    had to let go and keep the client and boss happy.\r\n\r\nAll Designers need to
    learn to let go of their preciousness at times, and pick when to stand and fight
    for good design.\r\n\r\nI've always found that if explain the problems early or
    the ugliness of certain decisions you can talk some bosses or clients around.
    That comes with experience.\r\n\r\nOne thing you will never get around, are blind
    clients and bosses who want to see the mistake or bad decision before you make
    it. Some people have no vision or imagination and don't trust yours.\r\nNumerous
    times I've told a client or boss that a certain look or graphic decision, or even
    production decision, won't work, only to have to show them on screen or through
    proofs. Now that's a waste of time.\r\n\r\nBut you can always be smart, and direct
    or coerce a client or boss without them even knowing it!! Set that as your plan
    early, do error free work, tell them things they want to hear, explain your designs
    and decisions...and you've got them by the nether regions!!\r\nAnd that's where
    your true power lies.\r\n\r\nGood Luck going forward \r\n<em>tearsforsappho<em/>
    \r\n"
  created: '2009-03-09 08:11:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "One pretentious jerk I worked for called white space 'visual silence'. \r\n\r\nAnother
    one would say \"Hmm... I'm liking it...\" which was usually the cue to completely
    start over.\r\n\r\nOh how I miss those days ;^P\r\n\r\nNick Cooke\r\n\r\nHey -
    how did everything become italicised?"
  created: '2009-03-09 09:36:34'
- author:
    name: Joostmarcellis
    picture: 115479
  body: "@tearsforsappho  we all have to take one op the @ss sometimes, saver your
    good moment and swallow the bad\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-09 11:43:22'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"If it\u2019s your own business that fine to strive to do the best and
    stop when you are happy with the work.\"</em>\r\nWell even when you're self-employed
    or run a business, you still get the occasional obnoxious client. ;-)\r\n\r\nMy
    favorite such story is from a few years back, when I was interning at a local
    advertising agency. We were re-launching the internal monthly journal of a largish
    company. They have four identity colors. The title has a \"P\", an \"a\", and
    two \"e\"s in it. Well, the first thing the client specified was that, \"our boss
    had this very creative idea of filling in the four closed counters in the masthead
    with our four colors.\"\r\nWhat can I say. We eventually got them down to 30%
    color coverage (that took WEEKS! and was a painful process on both sides), but
    that masthead (set in TNR Bold no less, that was an identity thing too) still
    looked like the doodlings of a bored schoolchild. :-|\r\n\r\nCan somebody pleeeez
    close that em tag?"
  created: '2009-03-09 13:12:05'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "</em></cite></i>Drop shadows! We need drop shadows! Someone get me some drop
    shadows!\r\n\r\nSerif fonts are bad! All of the major companies use sans-serif
    fonts, and they pay designers who make WAAY more money than you to do studies
    about things like that, so they must be right.\r\n\r\nWhat's that giant gap at
    the top of the page? Couldn't you just make the logo bigger and fill up all of
    that space?\r\n\r\nI think that looks nice, BUT it needs a border. And a drop
    shadow. Did I mention it needs a drop shadow?\r\n\r\nI think that logo needs a
    logo, you know, like a symbol or something. Here's a clipart package. Find something.\r\n\r\nAnd
    that text? It's a little small isn't it? (13pt) I mean, we don't want to alienate
    any blind users. Maybe bump it up to the next size? What do you mean you have
    to back away from your computer to read it? It's called accessibility.\r\n\r\nThat
    looks great. Just add a drop shadow now, and it will be perfect.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-09 16:34:46'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "So I\u2019m pretty sure I\u2019m not going to get a music magazine job because
    I designed some mock-up pages for them using my usual prodigious amounts of white
    space. And set no type on an angle. And no drop shadows. And\u2026this is why
    I want to just design fonts."
  created: '2009-03-09 16:48:27'
- author:
    name: James Deux
  body: "@DanGayle\r\n\r\nNo!\r\n\r\nNo matter how much you ridicule it I will continue
    to believe that a nice, breezy drop shadow can be OKAY for some jobs.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-09 17:12:20'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "@James Deux\r\nI love me some drop shadows, don't get me wrong. I just don't
    think that they belong on EVERYTHING. "
  created: '2009-03-09 17:26:41'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "i'm going to close the italics tag, \r\nfrom up on comment 333632...\r\n\r\nwait
    for it...\r\n\r\n</em>\r\n\r\n...ta-da!\r\n\r\nthere, now it should be ok.  and
    if \r\nthe improper close from above is\r\nrepaired, this one still shouldn't
    hurt.\r\n(other than causing this to fail validation, \r\nin which case you'll
    wanna eliminate this one.)\r\n\r\ni could tell you about some bosses i've had,
    but \r\nbelieve me, you don't want to get me started.\r\nso i became a slacker,
    and i have\r\nlived happily ever after...          :+)\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-09 17:35:16'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "It's too late for Dr jack to close the offending italics... Maybe a moderator
    can take care of it. In any case, thanks, bowerbird.\r\n\r\nOh, and James P.,
    that magazine job just was not worth the pain you would have endured... Keep on
    looking for something better!"
  created: '2009-03-10 05:31:02'
- author:
    name: tearsforsappho
    picture: 115158
  body: "@all, you guys crack me up.\r\n\r\nIt is all so true, and I know I just need
    to toughen up.  I feel like i try so hard to grow, to be better, and at the end
    of the day, it's really not up to me.  I guess that's the hardest part (as stated
    by Dr. J), and I just need to know when to deal with it.\r\n\r\nI'm taking some
    time (now that the economy is slow) to build my portfolio.  When people are spending
    money again, I plan on being ready to go it alone.\r\n\r\nAgain, thank you.  Sometimes,
    it is easy to feel like I am the only one who deals with this bs.\r\n\r\n@James,
    I agree with what Ricardo said.  \r\n\r\nTime to go fill in some more white space
    ;-)"
  created: '2009-03-11 14:42:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"The guy who taught me layout ...\"\r\n\r\nWas that guy named Alexey Brodovich?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-11 14:51:25'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "You think all of that is bad, try working in the sign trade. The pay is worse.
    The deadlines are shorter. The profit margins are smaller. The sales guy measures
    by counting bricks. Management wants a quality product, with no time invested.
    Every job is custom so template are out of the question. And let us not forget
    that your peers (graphic designers outside of the sign trade) think of you as
    a hack...\r\n\r\nI'm not whining, just making a comment.\r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n\r\n[[http://www.thefontry.com|<em>...from
    the Fontry </em>]]"
  created: '2009-03-11 20:24:45'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>The sales guy measures by counting bricks.</em>\r\n\r\nDoes he know about
    <a href=\"http://fontstruct.fontshop.com/\">FontStruct</a>? ;-)"
  created: '2009-03-12 00:39:11'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I suppose this is a good thread for stupid moments in design. The other day
    I was talking to one of the MDs and she told me she hated green. I pulled out
    a dollar bill and said \"Really?\". She laughed. I am in a position to do such
    things, being an AD and there for many, many years.\r\n\r\nI have been told by
    various higher ups that they hate green (3 different people), red, so far they
    don't hate blue. Good for that or the entire spectrum would be shot.\r\n\r\nThere's
    an entire board dedicated to stupid moments in design, sorry but I have forgotten
    the name. My favorite story on there was a guy who worked on a piece all day,
    had his boss walk in near the end of the day, look at it for about 10 seconds
    and say \"My wife hates yellow\" and walk out of the room.\r\n\r\nThis is indeed
    a dirty business - I have fixed every bodily part known to man, been told that
    \"She looks like a dude\" by a woman, to which I replied that every woman has
    a Mons Venus, had to put \u2122 on the obviously trademarkable phrase \"One Night
    Only\", man I could go on and on.\r\n\r\nOne more - I am working on a project
    with a massive legalese disclaimer at the bottom. It HAS to be there. I inserted
    it in a small ad at 2.7 pts (I was generous enough to use auto leading). Not to
    mention it was reversed - needless to say it was a series of small white dots.
    Ridiculous.\r\n\r\nWhat they can't ever take from me is the process. The moments
    I am involved, exploring, curious. That is where my toughness comes from, the
    knowledge that what I do is mysterious and most of the people peeing on my pieces
    have no idea what it is to lose oneself in a process of discovery.\r\n\r\nSic
    Transit Gloria Mundi\r\n\r\npbc\r\n\r\nMy mind is subject to change without notice."
  created: '2009-03-12 02:39:26'
- author:
    name: bemerx25
    picture: 112539
  body: Paul - do you mean Clientcopia? http://clientcopia.com/
  created: '2009-03-12 03:16:21'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Oh yes - it's been a long time.\r\n\r\nThere are many posters waiting there
    to be made.\r\n\r\npbc\r\n\r\nMy mind is subject to change without notice. I should
    know, but I don't\u2026"
  created: '2009-03-12 03:41:02'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "\u2014 Even my nephew knows how to bevel and emboss!\r\n\u2014 This gif I
    found, is perfect for our [12 foot] banner.\r\n\u2014 Maybe more green?\r\n\u2014
    There is still some empty space on the page!\r\n\u2014 What do you mean you don't
    want to stretch it across? Miguel did it all the time!\r\n\u2014 Why buy fonts
    when there are thousands of free ones online?\r\n\u2014 You are not using the
    full rainbow!\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal Art
    and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2009-03-12 19:23:44'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "<cite>\r\n\u2014 Even my nephew knows how to bevel and emboss!\r\n\u2014
    This gif I found, is perfect for our [12 foot] banner.\r\n\u2014 Maybe more green?\r\n\u2014
    There is still some empty space on the page!\r\n\u2014 What do you mean you don\u2019t
    want to stretch it across? Miguel did it all the time!\r\n\u2014 Why buy fonts
    when there are thousands of free ones online?\r\n\u2014 You are not using the
    full rainbow! </cite>\r\n\r\n\"Maybe more green\" is too serious: it doesn't fit."
  created: '2009-03-14 16:55:46'
date: '2009-03-03 22:19:25'
title: The Moment You Realize Everything is Pointless

---
