---
author:
  name: arielm
body: "After years playing with Processing, OpenGL and Java, I have found a new playground
  called the iPhone: [[http://chronotext.org/iphone]]\r\n\r\nThe touch and acceleration
  capabilities are bringing a huge plus (more experiments to follow I hope...)\r\n\r\nAny
  feedback, typophiles?\r\nAriel"
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The main problem is that moving text cannot be read, at least not more than
    one word at time. The human reading \"hardware\" just can't do it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-04 17:57:07'
- author:
    name: arielm
  body: "Text is information, data, signal, pattern... Motion is a very relative concept
    as well.\r\n\r\nSo when I hear \"the main problem is that moving text cannot be
    read\", I feel kind of shocked by the narrow-mindedness (lack of relativity if
    you prefer...)\r\n\r\nOr should it be considered as provocation for the purpose
    of some interesting debate?\r\n\r\nAriel\r\n[[http://chronotext.org]]"
  created: '2009-03-04 20:08:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Good design (unlike Art) has to work within constraints.\r\n<em>Reality</em>
    is not \"narrow-minded\". If you read up on how\r\nthe human eye works maybe you
    will get my point.\r\n\r\nDon't shoot the messenger.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-04 20:21:20'
- author:
    name: arielm
  body: "Well, I was not aware that Reality had a speaker.\r\n\r\nAnd again, I think
    you're far too absolute in your negation. More constructivity (doors left-open
    if you like) on the horizon can be nice sometimes...\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-04 20:48:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm really not a conservative.\r\nBut to me you're being more an artist than
    a designer.\r\n\r\nMaybe a fakir who can consciously slow down his heartbeat\r\ncould
    also re-train his eye motion to easily read moving text.\r\nBut he probably wouldn't
    care to read stuff typeset that way!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-04 22:52:56'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I think this is cool in terms of being artsy, being somewhat visually interesting,
    and  showing off the potential of the iPhone (and, hey, I heart the thing). But
    I'll have to agree that it looks like you haven't really considered text isn't
    only supposed to look cool: if this is supposed to be a new interface for a news
    <em>reader</em>, you'll likely get a bunch of initially fascinated and quickly
    frustrated users. (And btw, I think setting longish text in a 3D shape doesn't
    automatically qualify as \"information visualization\".)\r\nAs hard as that may
    be to accept in terms of wanting to exploit the possibilities the iPhone offers,
    I think it makes a lot of sense that text usually \"looks boring\" (set in 2D,
    in constant, parallel, left-to-right lines, and static). :->\r\n\r\nThough there
    seem to be some interesting experiments with moving type. I'm not exactly an expert
    on that. But you may want to look at some stuff like those interfaces that quickly
    flash words. Or type animations that are quite nice (and do actually read). Can
    someone help me out with links and terms? :-)"
  created: '2009-03-04 23:06:13'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "It\u2019s interesting, but I can\u2019t see how it\u2019s at all useful.
    But I\u2019m sure that if you turn these into libraries available for licensing
    you have brilliant young designers chomping at the bit to use them in something
    great."
  created: '2009-03-04 23:10:39'
- author:
    name: arielm
  body: "Tough guys! But maybe spot-on after all (how quickly you x-rayed the artist
    in me :-)\r\n\r\nMaybe it's my destiny to spend years making <strong>useless</strong>
    experiments on dimensional type, preparing the terrain for young and brilliant
    designers to make <strong>something great</strong> of it...\r\n\r\nSo to reformulate:
    my research can be <strong>useful</strong> in the achievement of <strong>something
    great</strong>, which is not a bad thing after all.\r\n\r\nAriel\r\n[[http://chronotext.org]]
    (the research in question, if we look at the broad scale...)"
  created: '2009-03-05 00:26:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> my research can be useful in ....\r\n\r\nThis is the sort of thing one
    really\r\nmust leave to <strong>other people</strong> to say.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-05 00:41:35'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "> Any feedback, typophiles?\r\n\r\nConsider playing with a position-based
    3D perspective rather than accelerometer-induced animation. Something along [[http://www.cartoonbrew.com/cgi/awesome-animated-3d-illusion-on-iphone.html|these
    lines]].\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-05 04:04:19'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>\u2026my research can be useful in the achievement of something great,
    which is not a bad thing after all.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhich pretty much makes you
    at home here. After all, no matter how well-designed type is, it\u2019s not especially
    useful until a designer does something with it."
  created: '2009-03-05 04:59:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Even without/before being used much a font can be useful to other type designers
    (and hence indirectly to users as well eventually) in the form of inspiration
    or technique. For example you don't see Legato used much, but it's a massive cultural
    contribution nonetheless.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-05 05:09:28'
- author:
    name: arielm
  body: To close the thread on a constructive note, I invite all the good designers
    around to take a look at my research and see if they feel like collaborating with
    a multi-disciplinary guy (at least programmer and artist) in order to turn all
    this potential into something great!
  created: '2009-03-05 18:55:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Only a moderator can close a thread (which is extremely rare around here).\r\n\r\nBTW,
    good type design is highly multi-disciplinary. Ideally one needs to know cultural
    history, fashion trends, aesthetics, digital drawing, preferably programming...
    and not least the science of reading.\r\n\r\nIt is a craft.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-05 19:06:57'
- author:
    name: devolver
  body: "arielm- I feel your work has been judged a little unfairly here... to me,
    you are on the right track, simply by experimenting. cheers to that. I am certainly
    interested in what you are doing there.\r\n\r\nIn my opinion (for whatever that
    is worth) I think it's rather odd to pose a sweeping statement as a fact  \"moving
    text cannot be read.\" hang on... film credits? Stock and news tickers? TV commercials?
    Animated billboards? (think Times Square.) How about even static highway billboards
    as you drive by, does that count as moving text? The list could go on and on.
    If moving text could not be read, a lot of motion designers wouldn't have jobs.
    \r\n\r\nalso, in using the iphone, I *do* find myself reading longer format text
    as I scroll it (so yes, it's moving); specifically, while using NYT app and the
    Wikipedia app. The reader having the control of the movement makes a big difference.\r\n\r\nand
    also, let's remember one of David Carson's great type experiments: \"don't confuse
    legibility with communication.\"\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n \r\n"
  created: '2009-03-06 00:13:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Right, David Carson. Nevermind.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-06 01:21:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> you are on the right track, simply by experimenting.\r\n\r\n> one of David
    Carson\u2019s great type experiments:\r\n> \u201Cdon\u2019t confuse legibility
    with communication.\u201D\r\n\r\nSo Ariel, all you really have to do is make statements,
    and you will thereby be \"experimenting\", and are therefore clearly on the right
    track. Presumably so is somebody who would letterspace lowercase...\r\n\r\nHere's
    one for you:\r\n\"Don't confuse jerking off with design.\"\r\n\r\nWords matter,
    people, in their meaning and their presence.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-06 01:32:44'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: Hrant, you are overreacting (to put it mildly).
  created: '2009-03-06 02:25:40'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: We call that hranting...
  created: '2009-03-06 03:00:50'
- author:
    name: arielm
  body: "Well, if \"hranting\" has already been categorized as a common action, it
    explains everything then...\r\n\r\nAs for myself (thanks to all the constructive
    comments out there btw, I did read you): I just can't go on with this discussion.
    Humanely speaking, it's simply unbearable.\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-06 07:22:54'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "I have to agree that this is first, pretty inspiring seeing type behave this
    way in a mobile device context. But to Hrant and James' points, it feels like
    a solution looking for a problem. \r\n\r\nDon't let that discourage you! There
    are plenty of instances where motion design and animated type can enhance meaning.
    We're just used to those happening on a different scale, that still has the utility
    of being readable. And in a mobile context it has to have utility beyond what
    you've shown. I think you've got some interesting concepts, especially as they
    relate to interacting with text in some new ways. \r\n\r\nI'd suggest starting
    with a problem.\r\n\r\nA mobile can be tiresome for reading long documents. The
    tilting document example you showed might be an interesting way to navigate a
    document and get a sense for its size and content (images, diagrams, callouts)
    but it's ineffective for actual reading in the way it's currently demoed.  \r\n\r\nWhat
    if a reader app (ebook or RSS reader) could enlarge the text above a touch point
    (long press) for easier zooming without having to pinch in and out?\r\n\r\nWhat
    if you could slowly move your finger to scroll through a document instead of repeated
    flicking. What if you could tilt the device to move to the next screen instead
    of flicking?\r\n\r\nWhat about an educational app for beginning readers where
    single words react to touch. Drag the word to the object, assemble letters into
    words, etc."
  created: '2009-03-06 07:26:37'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Some nice ideas from Joe. Otherwise, the demos show some potential for simulation,
    entertainment, and gaming applications, but not for text.
  created: '2009-03-06 07:46:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it\u2019s simply unbearable.\r\n\r\nSome people know what hranting means,\r\nbut
    <em>everybody</em> knows what artiste means.\r\n\r\nJoe, good angles.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-06 17:46:02'
- author:
    name: casperobro
    picture: 111406
  body: "Super work. I like it!\r\nI would love to help with some proto testing or
    anything else i could help with. \r\n\r\nCasper"
  created: '2009-03-06 23:09:48'
- author:
    name: Marcelo Soler
    picture: 115167
  body: "<em>\"Motion is a very relative concept as well.\"</em>\r\n\r\nIs it?\r\nNot
    at all, at least for a reading subject.\r\nOne must agree that movement is relative
    <em>from a physical point of view</em>, but with perception, it is absolutely
    different, the same way that ideas such upside, down, left and right are equally
    absolute for a given context.\r\nThere is an experiment that consists of extracting
    and rotating the eye of a frog*, let's say, 180 degrees: the frog is unable to
    deal with the environment because of the relative positions of things in its brain
    doesn't match theirs in the real world.\r\n* Amphibious has the unusual capacity
    of self relinking broken neural threads.\r\nIn the matter we discuss on, it has
    to do with the movement recognition mechanism also, that is common for all mammals
    and other species.\r\nWhen something moves before our eyes, it triggers a complex
    series of reactions to determine what kind of movement is happening, and act accordingly
    (it is unnecessary to say that most of these reactions are ancient reflexs).\r\nBut
    our perception doesn't work estrictly under the general principle of action and
    reaction: it is selective, some attenuations \u2013that can reach even the cancellation
    of stimuli\u2013 and some boosts occur, in order to allow us to discern what matters
    and what doesn't; reactions have inherited distortions.\r\nBeyond that reading
    is a cultural behavior, an ordinary reader is unavoidably determined for some
    basic questions such as position, angle, brightness, contrast, sequential sorting,
    pattern recognition, focus, distance, size, weight, and so on; worse: the eyes
    move in three different ways:\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>Individual eye movement (duction)</li>\r\n<li>Same
    direction eyes movement (version)</li>\r\n<li>Opposite direction eyes movement
    (vergence)</li>\r\n</ul>\r\nIt's almost pointless to tell that when a text moves
    in any way, reading becomes a harder task for our visual short term memory processing
    system, mainly because parameters that are supposed to be constant become variable
    (you know how hard it can be to read the credits at the end of a film movie when
    scrolling), but also because we cannot keep focus on such a complex situation
    that requires all of our conscious.\r\nMoving texts make us considerably more
    sensitive to failure phenomena like inattentional, choice, and change blindness,
    obscuration, noising; they are not only related to movement itself, but to the
    kind of movement.\r\nIn the end, it's all determined by our mind map, that is
    our way of knowing the world, in which position is almost everything (by the way,
    the Moon seems bigger on the horizon 'cause four our mind map the universe is
    an overwhelmed sphere).\r\nI once learned \u2013and it didn't change since then\u2013
    that Relativity fits in its own field, the same way that Quantum Mechanics only
    works at atomic level; so I'm reluctant to such generalizations as saying <em>\"I
    feel kind of shocked by the narrow-mindedness (lack of relativity if you prefer...)\"</em>.\r\nI
    agree that these experiments are <em>\"cool in terms of being artsy, being somewhat
    visually interesting, and showing off the potential of the iPhone\"</em>, in Nina's
    words. Nevertheless, speaking of a humane interface, in that case, is as far as
    the distance between the Myth of Oedipus (art) and the Oedipus Complex (science?).\r\nArt
    is inspiring; then, it starts the modest-hard-slow-constrained work of design.\r\nDesign,
    in my humble opinion, is mainly a matter of modesty.\r\n\r\n<strong>MarS</strong>"
  created: '2009-03-06 23:27:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Marcelo, that's all quite interesting, with terms and concepts\r\nI had not
    encountered before. I will have to do some research.\r\n\r\n> Design, in my humble
    opinion, is mainly a matter of modesty.\r\n\r\nI like that.\r\n(Would \"humility\"
    be an even better term?)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-07 02:54:41'
- author:
    name: Marcelo Soler
    picture: 115167
  body: "<em>\"Would \u201Chumility\u201D be an even better term?\"</em>\r\nSorry
    for my poor English.\r\n\r\n<em>\"I will have to do some research\"</em>\r\nI
    have written a lot on the matter; now I'm translating it to publish ASAP. I think
    it would be an interesting (modest? :-) ) complement to your work on [[http://themicrofoundry.com/ss_read1.html|how
    we read]], especially in what involves the vision dynamics.\r\n\r\nBack to the
    main subject: my guess is the experiments are truly amazing and attract my attention
    on the capabilities of the iPhone; there, I see they are not precisely matter
    of applied design \u2013sorry for the redundance\u2013 in the current state, and
    that can be split in branches, let's say:\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>Approaches to more natural
    interfaces, that behave similarly to the real world (though it's not necessarily
    more efficient from the point of view of user's work) \u2013as in the 3D news
    reader.</li>\r\n<li>Developing of new ways of interaction in abstract environments
    (perhaps the opposite to the previous item) \u2013as in the babel tower reader.</li>\r\n<li>Inspiring
    ideas for art and design, in the shape of pure concepts.</li>\r\n<li>Substantial
    contributions to the study of the aplicable, engineering scope of our mental abilities
    and limitations.</li>\r\n</ul>\r\nNevertheless, all that falls far away from typographic
    design as a discipline \u2013hey: that's not a sin\u2013, except as (proto) experimental
    tries. In that sense, I'm not being restrictive by compartmenting things analytically
    (analysis is a huge tool, but must be used carefully, and many times ruled out);
    I'm just attempting to use adjectivations more properly.\r\n\r\n<strong>MarS</strong>"
  created: '2009-03-07 13:59:44'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "This is cool!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design\r\nNo man is an island
    unto himself_John Donne\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-08 22:54:07'
- author:
    name: Joostmarcellis
    picture: 115479
  body: dud that is awesome, keep em comming
  created: '2009-03-09 11:55:15'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "ariel said:\r\n>   I just can\u2019t go on with this discussion. \r\n>   Humanely
    speaking, it\u2019s simply unbearable.\r\n\r\noh boy.  not _just_ an artist, but
    a _sensitive_ artist.      ;+)\r\nwhen you ask for feedback, you need a thick
    skin...\r\n\r\nas for readability, your experiments don't have it.\r\n\r\nhowever...\r\n\r\nfrom
    a position of _playing_with_words_ (my favorite!),\r\nthey look like loads of
    fun!  once i start programming\r\nthe iphone, and i get my basic chops down, i
    will be\r\nthrowing ideas your way to see how to use your stuff.\r\n\r\nkeep up
    the good work...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-09 18:13:38'
- author:
    name: arielm
  body: "bowerbird said:\r\n>oh boy. not _just_ an artist, but a _sensitive_ artist.
    ;+)\r\n>when you ask for feedback, you need a thick skin...\r\n\r\nSensitivity
    is good for artists, I'll keep it.\r\n\r\nConcerning the thickness of my skin,
    you didn't understand my point which was and still is: fights should be fair.\r\n\r\nThe
    amount of hits under the belt by I have received from hrant is far beyond the
    level of what I consider viable for any intellectual discussion. At some point,
    the subject of the topic is not relevant anymore, while our humanity and the way
    we interact one with another is always actual.\r\n\r\nThat was for the dignity
    and respect part. Now, and as a complement of secondary importance: I feel that
    hrant is behaving like a control freak, leaving 0 door open for a true discussion.\r\n\r\n1
    + 1 = no-win / no-deal for me. At least for this thread. Maybe another time (some
    of us -- and I count myself in -- could greatly benefit from a sane and fun exchange...)"
  created: '2009-03-10 00:08:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Making a person a scapegoat is weakness. Is that artsy too?\r\nIf you ever
    start thinking like a <em>designer</em> you will feel more\r\nharmonious here.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-10 00:25:24'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "ariel said:\r\n>   The amount of hits under the belt\r\n\r\nthose hits were
    not \"below the belt\";\r\nyour sensitivity made you misperceive.\r\n\r\nlaugh
    it off, and dish some dirt back...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-10 00:27:27'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "dish it back, and they won't see you as being \"weak\".\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-10 00:30:12'
- author:
    name: arielm
  body: "Becomes boring...\r\nLet's have a <strong>moving text</strong> fight!\r\n\r\nI'll
    start by quoting Beck's words: \"I'm a looser baby, so why don't you kill me?\"\r\n\r\nJava
    applet (or iPhone video capture following :-)"
  created: '2009-03-10 00:30:33'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Hm\u2026 I think you've been taking stuff way too personally."
  created: '2009-03-10 00:37:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nail on the head, Nina. And that \"stuff\" includes what Ariel has made,
    like that iPhone thing. Essentially, he wants it to be about him (and this is
    typical of artists). But this place should not be about him (or me), it should
    be about type, even if that comes at the expense of the enjoyment of individual
    participants. You want unconditional, fawning encouragement? Try Flickr.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-10 00:59:02'
- author:
    name: Marcelo Soler
    picture: 115167
  body: "LOL!\r\n<em>\"And then God said...\"</em> \r\n\r\n[Hate you momma: you gave
    birth to a designer, when I'm supposed to be a <strong>Creator</strong>]\r\n\r\n<strong>MarS</strong>"
  created: '2009-03-10 03:42:31'
- author:
    name: arielm
  body: "Bought myself a red clown nose and started this [[http://typophile.com/node/55691|new
    thread]], where I'm delighted to invite all of you to a show on <strong>moving
    text</strong>.\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-10 11:18:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "If you want a fresh start, as opposed to simply creating a diversion:\r\n1)
    State that clearly, either here or there (preferably both).\r\n2) Change your
    attitude to accommodate the context - namely Typophile.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand
    I'm glad to see you're trying so hard. Maybe it means you respect Typophile? Please
    translate that to a change of perspective - we'd all be better off for it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-10 14:01:30'
- author:
    name: casperobro
    picture: 111406
  body: "Here is a little more breathing type for the disussion.\r\nhttp://vimeo.com/3548185\r\n\r\nCasper"
  created: '2009-03-14 15:47:58'
date: '2009-03-04 15:22:27'
title: 'Interacting with 2D/3D text on the iPhone: some experiments'

---
