---
author:
  name: peachey
  picture: 116088
body: "Hello There!\r\n\r\nI am a student and I was wondering if anyone knows of any
  good affordable font packages? Or perhaps an option to buy 1 font instead of the
  whole set? Just have a limited budget and I'm really getting bored of what I have
  and the free fonts are starting to disgust me.\r\nAlso does anyone have this book?
  \ http://www.fontshop.com/products/fontbook/ \r\nIs it useful? I so want it. It
  looks like it could be very helpful!! \r\nI am drooling... mmmmm.......fontbook....\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>\u2026good affordable font packages\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nMuseo/Museo
    Sans are quite affordable. \r\n\r\nWatch eBay for old copies of Corel Draw, which
    comes with 1000+ Bitstream/ITC fonts. Prices run from $50 to $500 depending on
    what version is selling and how many copies are available. Or drop $1500 at once
    to get the complete Bitstream Type Odyssey 2 which will get you through school
    and well into your professional career.\r\n\r\n<cite>\u2026fontbook\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nIf
    you can\u2019t afford fonts, there\u2019s really no reason to buy a $100 font
    catalog."
  created: '2009-03-05 23:36:44'
- author:
    name: peachey
    picture: 116088
  body: "awesome! thanks! that helps. I've been looking around with no luck.\r\nThat's
    the thing, fontbook is expensive. but it's kinda just like window shopping. I'm
    still a student and I want to feed my head with all that is out there. Just looking
    at type gets me all excited!!  and if I like it enough I'll start saving up so
    I can eventually buy it."
  created: '2009-03-06 00:44:36'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: ' [[font starter packs]]'
  created: '2009-03-06 00:46:00'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: '@james are the fonts bundled with corel draw bitstream fonts? i know that
    there were some collections of bistream, letraset, urw++ fonts that came bundled
    with word perfect 8 and am curious to know if it''s the same set...'
  created: '2009-03-06 00:50:10'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "@Paul: CorelDRAW bundles a mix which is mostly Bitstream and URW++, so I
    think it's probably the same set.\r\n\r\n@Peachey: When I was at Adobe, we partnered
    with AIGA to assemble a new education collection of 500 fonts from 25 families,
    here: http://www.adobe.com/education/products/fontfolioeducationessentials/\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-03-06 01:25:17'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: "Peachey: As a student, if you have a valid student ID you can buy CorelDraw
    dirt cheap. Like $100 ish. Go for it. Also, go get the pack that Mr. Phinney recommends.
    Were I a student, I'd buy it.\r\n\r\nThat'll give you a more than ample set of
    fonts to work with."
  created: '2009-03-06 03:30:45'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Thomas, thanks for posting the link to the Adobe education collection &ndash;
    looks quite interesting indeed! So is this meant for non-profit, educational work
    only, or does it come with the full licence so the fonts can also legally be used
    commercially? (I'm one of those people with a student ID who do paid work so I'm
    wondering.)
  created: '2009-03-06 09:21:49'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "When You're a student it might also be a good idea to make a bit of an investment
    and buy Adobe Creative Suite, which costs quite a lot less when you're a student,
    brings you all the top design software you need (Illustrator, Photoshop, Indesign,
    Flash etc.) and comes bundled with a very good set of professional fonts to get
    you going.\r\n\r\ncheerio Queneau"
  created: '2009-03-06 10:32:39'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "@Altaira: All of Adobe's educational software licenses contain no restrictions
    on what you can do with the software above those placed on regular retail licensees,
    just more restrictions on who can license it. You can use it for commercial work
    while you're a student (or afterwards) as you wish.\r\n\r\nOf course, I'm not
    a lawyer, this is not legal advice, and they could have changed things when I
    wasn't looking, and you should certainly examine the license yourself prior to
    purchasing, and similar disclaimers.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-03-07 08:10:31'
- author:
    name: mehallo
    picture: 109684
  body: "I actually priced my 2491 font low just to get it in many hands. My students
    tend to use it a lot for stuff, which sort of throws me. But it's only 5 bucks.\r\n\r\n[[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/steve-mehallo/twenty-four-ninety-one/]]\r\n\r\nBut
    do watch for any Bitstream bundles out there - I got a batch with an old Mac Clone
    I bought many years ago and the (well-drawn) package is still incredibly useful
    today.\r\n\r\n \r\n"
  created: '2009-03-09 09:52:06'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "also, if you like type specimen books, check out the Indie Fonts series,
    they are a little more affordable to start with than FontBook, plus come with
    fonts on cd.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.p22.com/indiefonts/"
  created: '2009-03-09 11:00:15'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Maybe Thomas can clarify, but one issue with Macromedia Student purchases
    was that (IIRC) the software was not eligible for upgrades.\r\n\r\nNot that Macromedia
    was really upgrading anything near the end anyways. \r\n\r\nI assume Adobe's policies
    trumped Macromedia's after the take-over. \r\n"
  created: '2009-03-09 13:56:06'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>@james are the fonts bundled with corel draw bitstream fonts</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    think some of the postscript ITC fonts in Corel draw are not the Bitstream versions;
    I don\u2019t know enough about the ownership history of ITC to theorize as to
    exactly where they came from.\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-09 16:45:54'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "No exactly an answer to the question but...\r\n\r\nI remember at the TypeCon
    in Boston there were some break out sessions during the Educational forum which
    preceded the conference. \r\n\r\nOne such session was about creating low-priced
    font packs for students and teachers to use. Of the five or six people at the
    session four were from foundries. Only two instructors bothered to come by, and
    if I remember correctly they had very little to contribute. There was clearly
    an interest on the part of the type makers to create something of value for students,
    but I guess we were the only ones interested.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-09 20:02:18'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: One resource ALWAYS overlooked is the TeX packages. Utopia, Charter, a handful
    of URW typefaces that are great, if of questionable authority. For example, U001
    is a URW typeface that was released publicly. But U001 is Univers, and Univers
    ain't supposed to be released publicly. Linotype's loss, I guess.
  created: '2009-03-09 20:54:13'
- author:
    name: mehallo
    picture: 109684
  body: "Also, forgot about these (even though I have some fonts in them! Duh.)\r\n\r\nAscender's
    Font Marketplace is sort of based on what Monotype used to do (in the 1990s) with
    their discount font packages. They have packages and single user-based pricing:
    \r\n\r\nhttp://www.fontmarketplace.com\r\n\r\nFont Packs:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fontmarketplace.com/store/search.aspx?q=font+pack\r\n\r\n\r\nAlso,
    when I started out (after school) I simply started purchasing a few specific packages
    that I'd save up for and end up using over and over again. At the time, Adobe
    Caslon became my mainstay. And eventually client work ended up paying for my investment
    up front. Ask yourself, what fonts would really last a lifetime?\r\n\r\n(And unfortunately,
    Monotype's Columbus package didn't; but their marketing really did suck me in.
    I will find a use for it someday!) :)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-09 21:25:24'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: You should look for some used fonts! Much better than buying new ones.
  created: '2009-03-09 22:03:02'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "URW's typefaces are not of questionable authority. \r\n\r\nIn the early days
    of font digitizing URW was one of the only digitizing games in town. It offered
    two price structures. The lower price delivered the digital data to the original
    company, but allowed URW the right to use the digital data.The more expensive
    option was to deliver the digital data to the source company with no reuse rights.
    Most companies chose the less expensive option which is why URW markets look-alike
    fonts under different names. All perfectly legal.\r\n\r\nAnd their Nimbus Sans
    Novus is the best digital Helvetica around.\r\n\r\nWhen I was still doing graphic
    design n the early 90s I advised all my clients to buy URW's Fontworks CDs to
    get themselves a high quality digital library at a reasonable cost."
  created: '2009-03-10 02:02:08'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "is this really still the case regarding helvetica? \r\n\r\nand are urw still
    a good bet, after all these years?\r\n\r\nhow have they handled the transition
    to opentype?"
  created: '2009-03-10 11:52:41'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: MinionPro is probably on your computer already. Have you tried working with
    it?
  created: '2009-03-10 12:45:44'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "terminaldesign:\r\n\r\n> I advised all my clients to buy URW\u2019s Fontworks
    CDs \r\n\r\n\"Fontworks\" never existed :-)\r\n\r\nAt Ebay, someone offers Typeworks\r\n\r\nhttp://cgi.ebay.de/URW-TypeWorks-1-2-3000-Type1-Fonts-kom-Vollvers-Win_W0QQitemZ380097056824\r\n\r\nat
    a price higher than the original price more than 15 years ago.\r\n\r\nAnd the
    seller copied and pasted the description from my website :-)\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-10 13:36:10'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Dan...what are the TeX packages?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-10 15:28:13'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Typeworks, Fontworks,  it was a long time ago. I licensed volumes 1 and 2
    as well as something URW called Designworks.\r\n\r\nAll were very worthwhile.
    As to how URW has kept up with OpenType, I have no idea."
  created: '2009-03-10 15:29:20'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "@aluminum\r\nhttp://www.tug.org/fonts/ to start. There is another resource
    that I'm thinking about, where the before mentioned U001.pfa and U001.pfm reside,
    but it's going to take a minute to find."
  created: '2009-03-10 16:58:14'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "@aluminum\r\nHere we go. The ghostscript fonts are the ones you want.\r\nhttp://ctan.org/tex-archive/fonts/\r\nhttp://ctan.org/tex-archive/nonfree/fonts/\r\nhttp://ctan.org/tex-archive/nonfree/support/ghostscript/AFPL/GhostPCL/"
  created: '2009-03-10 17:08:44'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: 'Thomas: Thanks for the info! That''s good to know. I''ve asked back with
    Adobe (also because I couldn''t find this in the European Education Store) but
    haven''t heard back yet. '
  created: '2009-03-10 17:59:59'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "in regard to the Font Foilo Education Essentials package, Adobe Australia
    avised me it is not available outside the US, so they suggested just asking a
    friend in the US to buy it and send it to me, apparently that's ok.\r\n\r\nweird.\r\n\r\nso,
    that's what i am in the process of doing."
  created: '2009-03-10 21:06:22'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Huh, Simon, that is weird. So did they accept your study ID? I assume it's
    not American.\r\n\r\nBtw I like \"Font Foilo\". :->"
  created: '2009-03-10 21:12:34'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "heehee, oops... \r\n\r\nand I'm still trying to sort it out, I have an American
    friend willing to help, we just need to sort out the details.\r\n\r\nyeah, when
    the aussie adobe rep said to just ask a friend in america to get it, i said 'are
    you sure that's legal and ok? adn she said, yeah, it's the best way'. so yeah...\r\n\r\nbut
    if enough of us ask, maybe Adobe will make the store international!?!\r\n\r\n:-)"
  created: '2009-03-10 21:51:34'
- author:
    name: btri
  body: "re: the CorelDraw Fonts \r\n\r\nAre the fonts still usable/ licensed if we
    dont' install CorelDraw on our computers? "
  created: '2010-06-25 22:24:18'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Are the fonts still usable/ licensed if we dont' install CorelDraw on
    our computers?</em>\r\n\r\nAs long as the version of CorelDraw you have is licensable
    (i.e., not a pirated version), the fonts come as part of the package."
  created: '2010-06-25 22:30:10'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Yves Peters, on the [[http://fontfeed.com/archives/free-fonts-free-is-not-always-free/|FontFeed]],
    has just argued to the contrary, that \"bundled fonts may only be used as long
    as the product (and version!) they\u2019re bundled with is installed.\" "
  created: '2010-06-25 22:36:41'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>bundled fonts may only be used as long as the product (and version!)
    they\u2019re bundled with is installed</em>\r\n\r\nDoes this apply to shrink-wrap
    licenses? Also, I can find nothing in the three CorelDraw manuals I have mentioning
    the installation requirement."
  created: '2010-06-25 23:12:57'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: "Yves is very authoritative, but still fallible, and so, even, is David Lemon.\r\n\r\nI
    think there's a misunderstanding here. <em>Some</em> fonts are restricted by Adobe's
    EULA for use with the app; see:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.adobe.com/type/browser/legal/restricted_fonts.html\r\n\r\nThese
    are governed by clause 16.4.6 in the EULA (I'm citing the one for InD CS5, and
    I quote some other clauses in the font section, because the modification and embedding
    rights in the Adobe EULA are notably liberal.)\r\n\r\n<cite>16.4 Font Software.
    If the Software includes font software:\r\n16.4.1 You may use the font software
    with the Software on Computers as described in Section 2 and output the font software
    to any output device(s) connected to such Computer(s).\r\n...\r\n16.4.4 You may
    convert the font software into another format and install it for use in other
    environments, subject to the following conditions: A Computer on which the converted
    font software is used or installed will be considered as one of your Permitted
    Number of Computers. Use of the font software you have converted will be pursuant
    to all the terms and conditions of this agreement. Such converted font software
    may be used only for your own customary internal business or personal use and
    may not be distributed or transferred for any purpose, except in accordance with
    Section 4.6 of this agreement.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>16.4.5 You may embed copies
    of the font software into your electronic documents for the purpose of printing
    and viewing the document. If the font software you are embedding is identified
    as \u201Clicensed for editable embedding\u201D on Adobe\u2019s Web Site at http://www.adobe.com/go/embedding_eula_ae,
    you may also embed copies of that font software for the additional purpose of
    editing your electronic documents. No other embedding rights are implied or permitted
    under this license.</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd, the clause that I think causes some confusion:\r\n\r\n<cite>16.4.6
    As an exception to the above, the fonts listed at http://www.adobe.com/go/restricted_fonts_ae
    are included with the Software only for purposes of operation of the Software
    user interface and not for inclusion within any Output Files. Such listed fonts
    are not licensed under Sections 16.4.1 through 16.4.5 above. You agree that you
    will not copy, move, activate, or use, or allow any font management tool to copy,
    move, activate, or use such listed fonts in or with any software application,
    program, or file other than the Software.</cite>\r\n\r\nClause 4.5 of the EULA
    discusses \"unbundling\", at first it seems to support Yves contention:\r\n\r\n<cite>4.5
    No Unbundling. The Software may include various applications, utilities, and components,
    may support multiple platforms and languages, and may be provided to you on multiple
    media or in multiple copies. Nonetheless, the Software is designed and provided
    to you as a single product to be used as a single product on Computers as permitted
    by Sections 2 and 16.</cite>\r\n\r\n<strong>Bu:t</strong>\r\n\r\n<cite><strong>You
    are not required to install all component parts of the Software,</strong>(emphasis
    added) but you may not unbundle the component parts of the Software for use on
    different Computers. You may not unbundle or repackage the Software for distribution,
    transfer or resale. See Section 16 for specific exceptions to this Section 4.5.</em>\r\n\r\nSo,
    you can't consider the font to have a license separate from the app, but if you
    hold a valid license, deleting some of the package doesn't void that license...
    otherwise we'd be required to keep all the sample file installed!\r\n\r\nAnd,
    furthermore:\r\n<cite>2.8 Content Files. Unless stated otherwise in the \u201CRead-Me\u201D
    files or other license(s) associated with the Content Files, which may include
    specific rights and restrictions with respect to such materials, you may use,
    display, modify, reproduce and distribute any of the Content Files. However, you
    may not distribute the Content Files on a stand-alone basis (i.e., in circumstances
    in which the Content Files constitute the primary value of the product being distributed),
    and you may not claim any trademark rights in the Content Files or derivative
    works thereof.</cite>\r\n\r\nSo, I think you <em>can</em> use the Adobe fonts
    without having the app  installed. What can you do with other fonts in other bundles?
    Well, one would have to read <em>those</em> EULAs.\r\n\r\nThat's what I think.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-26 01:23:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "What do you have that bores you so?\r\nSurely OCAD provides you with exciting
    Shinntype and Canada Type fonts!"
  created: '2010-06-26 02:18:09'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<a href=\"http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/dunwich/armitage/\">My Armitage family</a>
    is available from MyFonts at a 50% discount for personal use, which includes use
    by students and teachers. That\u2019s $15 per weight or $100 for the twelve-font
    family. I plan to keep this up with future DTF families."
  created: '2010-06-26 02:53:09'
- author:
    name: btri
  body: "Really appreciate the research/feedback everyone. I can't access the CorelDraw
    manuals online, but think it's  a safe bet to go buy an older copy.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-06-29 12:25:15'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: I wondered aout buying second hand corel software with fonts. How does this
    work licence wise. Normally fonts are licenced to a certain amount of users in
    one geographic location. The licence is transferrable, but often tis has to be
    arranged with the foundry. Reselling fonts is hardly if ever permitted. So how
    does it work if you buy a program (with fonts like corel) from someone who has
    the proper licence. Isn't this considered reselling. And what does the EULA of
    these fonts say about this? Is it actually legal to acquire fonts this way?
  created: '2010-06-29 13:01:41'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: If it hasn't been mentioned, you can get a scad ton of URW fonts on an old
    Macromedia Freehand disk that you can find on Ebay for cheap.
  created: '2010-06-29 23:33:52'
date: '2009-03-05 23:22:06'
title: affordable fonts for students?

---
