---
author:
  name: bowerbird
  picture: 116972
body: "greetings...          :+)\r\n\r\nso glad i found this place!\r\n\r\nbeen looking
  for experts\r\nin typography so i could\r\nbounce ideas off of them,\r\nand get
  feedback on stuff.\r\n\r\nand this looks like that place.      ;+)\r\n\r\ni write
  e-book programs --\r\nauthoring-tools and viewers.\r\n\r\nmy aim is to incorporate
  the\r\nbest of p-book typography...\r\nso i've tried to learn about it.\r\n\r\ni
  respect the centuries of craft.\r\n\r\ni want to carry a lot of it forward.\r\n\r\ni'm
  also willing to leave things\r\nbehind, as no longer needed,\r\nbut i want to know
  i'm doing it,\r\nand doing it for good reasons...\r\n\r\ni do believe you can break
  the rules \r\ncreatively even without knowing 'em;\r\nif it works, it works, regardless
  if you\r\nknew why it \"shouldn't\" work or not...\r\n\r\nbut i love p-book typography,
  so i've\r\nbeen quite willing to learn the rules...\r\n\r\nafter all, it's only
  natural to be\r\ncurious about what you love...\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\ni'm about to release
  some stuff that\r\ni would love to have you look at, and\r\ngive me feedback on.
  \ in the meantime,\r\ni've been spouting off in a few threads\r\nabout \"what book
  typographers think\",\r\nand it'd be great if you let me know of\r\nany specifics
  that i've gotten _wrong_...\r\n\r\none thread is over at the \"if:book\" blog\r\n--
  future of the book --  on a blog entry\r\nasking \"why is text on screens so ugly?\"\r\ni
  made a couple of long comments there.\r\n\r\nthe second thread is on the \"toc\"
  blog\r\n-- \"tools of change\" at the site of o'reilly,\r\nthe computer-book publishers
  -- where\r\ni discuss a free book they just released to\r\ndemonstrate print-on-demand
  at a show.\r\ni tell them all the things they did _wrong_,\r\nfrom the perspective
  of a book-designer,\r\nso i'd appreciate if you told me what _i_\r\ngot wrong.  you
  can do it there, or here...\r\n\r\ni'll put specific url's in a follow-up post,\r\njust
  in case they would hold up this one.\r\n\r\nand when i release stuff into the wild,\r\ni'll
  let you know so you can kick my ass\r\nwith some of your excellent feedback...         :+)\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "here's one:\r\n>   http://www.futureofthebook.org/blog/archives/2009/02/why_is_text_on_screens_so_ugly.html\r\n\r\nand
    here's the other, which is a lot longer:\r\n>   http://toc.oreilly.com/2009/02/best-of-toc-collection-now-ava.html\r\n\r\nplease,
    you can be quite frank with me.\r\ni have a very thick skin.           :+)\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-05 22:01:11'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>my aim is to incorporate the\r\nbest of p-book typography...</cite>\r\n\r\nStart
    by using proper capitalization."
  created: '2009-03-05 22:06:29'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "I love it... on the site it says click to enlarge the images. WTF, If I can't
    read it in its natural environment then why would I want...... well you get my
    point : )\r\n\r\nOh and point well made James!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-03-05 22:25:19'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: PERHAPS HE LIKES e e cummings?
  created: '2009-03-05 22:32:07'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "james said:\r\n>   Start by using proper capitalization.\r\n\r\nmy tools
    allow authors to use\r\nwhatever capitalization they like.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\ntyperror
    said:\r\n>   on the site it says click \r\n>   to enlarge the images. WTF,\r\n>
    \  If I can\u2019t read it in its natural \r\n>   environment then why would I
    want...\r\n\r\nactually i'm looking for feedback \r\non the accuracy of my comments,\r\nnot
    your reaction to someone else's\r\nblog entry...  just so you know...\r\n\r\nthat's
    why i won't bother to explain why\r\ni think what they did was a good thing...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-05 22:37:27'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "paragraph said:\r\n>   PERHAPS HE LIKES e e cummings?\r\n\r\ni am a poet.
    \ and lowercase is \r\npart of my artistic expression.\r\n\r\nand yes, e.e. cummings
    is rad.\r\nbut he often used mixed-case.\r\n\r\ni like ogden nash even better...\r\n\r\nwho
    knew you could make up words?\r\n\r\nand just because i know it will\r\nbe coming
    up very soon, it's also\r\npart of my artistic expression to\r\ncontrol my linebreaks,
    thank you.\r\n\r\nnow, i'm sure the people who will\r\nmake more substantive comments\r\nwill
    be arriving here any minute...        :+)\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-05 22:44:24'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I have a few random comments:\r\n\r\n- yes, hyphenation of ragged-right text
    is a legitimate choice. So is multi-line composition/line-breaking of ragged right
    text (which InDesign does, btw). Having a more even rag is considered desirable
    by many typographers.\r\n\r\n- the choice between sans and serif is not any more
    important than the specific choice of fonts: even if you prefer one or the other,
    there are lousy and better choices in either camp. I prefer sans for most current
    ebook settings, but I'd sooner be eviscerated with a spoon than read a 300-page
    ebook set in Arial or Helvetica.\r\n\r\n- \"mixed\" mode (cross between \"indent\"
    and \"block\" mode for paragraph separation) is something that would make most
    typographers barf.\r\n\r\n- have you consulted a lawyer about the repercussions
    of moving the copyright notice to the end? I'll bet you lunch at a nice restaurant
    that most copyright lawyers would say it's a bad idea because you want to warn
    people up front of the copyright.\r\n\r\n- On a side note, I was amused to see
    Sean Stewart's name crop up here. He was best man at my wedding.  :)  Last night
    I was playing with the stuff he did for the new \"Watchmen\" film.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-06 01:22:18'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: OK, feedback . . . screech, whistle, screech . . .
  created: '2009-03-06 01:41:54'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "thomas, thank you so much for your reactions...\r\n\r\ni'll see if anyone
    else wants to take a shot as well...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-06 05:42:39'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: "Like ebook design, pbook design is a compromise between the convenience of
    the reader and the limitations of the production process.\r\nThe single biggest
    factor determining the production cost of pbooks is length: more words equals
    more pages, and more pages equals more paper, more press time, and more shipping
    weight. Justified columns are designed to fit the maximum number of words on a
    page, which in turn keeps the page count to a minimum. There's no justification
    for justification in ebooks, because there's no paper, press time, or shipping.
    \r\nParagraphs beginning with an indented first line are another device to minimize
    length and save paper. Flush-left paragraphs with an extra line or half-line above
    make sense for ebooks.\r\nAggregating metadata into frontmatter (the pages with
    Roman-numbered folios at the front of a pbook) is likewise an artifact of the
    space limitations of paper. Put the copyright notice on a splash screen, like
    other software products, or link it to menu bar or toolbar. \r\nThe table of contents
    in a pbook is the ancestor of the home-page menu. Its column of page numbers is
    a navigation tool that pbooks required, but on ebooks it's as anachronistic as
    a foghorn on a space ship. Pbooks are littered with navigation and search tools
    (numbered pages, numbered footnotes, figure and table references, indexes) that
    were ingenious workarounds to the space limitations of the paper page, but don't
    belong in a hyperlinked medium. \r\nWhat pbook design conventions <em>should</em>
    we preserve or adapt for ebooks? Readable fonts, for sure, but what's considered
    readable is a moving target. Gutenberg cut blackletter type for his Bible because
    that's what 15th Century readers were comfortable with. When John Baskerville
    introduced his eponymous type in the 1750s, critics wailed that it would cause
    blindness in readers accustomed to Caslon. Given time, ebooks will evolve their
    own optimal letterforms, and readers may even set preferences for the font, size,
    and leading they prefer.\r\nOne thing that seems fairly constant is line length,
    not measured in inches (or centimeters or picas), but in characters. The comfort
    zone seems to fall somewhere between 50 and 75 characters per line. Since ebook
    publishers have no minimum or maximum number of pages to worry about, they should
    optimize line length and let the number of lines be whatever it needs to be. "
  created: '2009-03-07 23:30:14'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "thomas said:\r\n>   yes, hyphenation of ragged-right text is a legitimate
    choice.\r\n\r\nfor much of the infrastructure now in place, especially\r\nhand-helds
    like the iphone, e-book programs simply\r\ndon't have enough firepower to do hyphenation
    well.\r\n\r\nso i advocate turning off hyphenation entirely...\r\n\r\npeople are
    used to the absence of hyphenation,\r\nsince most of the web hasn't been using
    it at all.\r\n\r\nplus, in the \"toc\" (\"tools of change\") .pdf that i was\r\nanalyzing,
    the hyphenation was quite atrocious, so\r\nmy advice to turn it off was extremely
    well-founded.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   So is multi-line composition/line-breaking of ragged
    right text \r\n\r\ni absolutely agree that a multi-line method must be used.\r\n\r\nand
    you can achieve a very nice even rag if you do multi-line...\r\n(at least in english,
    with bad-line exceptions being fairly rare.)\r\n\r\n\r\n>   a more even rag is
    considered desirable by many typographers.\r\n\r\ni agree that it is very important,\r\n\r\nand
    i restate that a multi-line method can give it to you...\r\n\r\n(and even if it
    couldn't, we still don't have the firepower\r\nin our hand-held machines to do
    hyphenation correctly.\r\nso we're stuck here.)\r\n\r\n\r\n>   the choice between
    sans and serif is not any \r\n>   more important than the specific choice of fonts:
    \r\n\r\ncertainly.  i was merely relating the common advice, which is\r\nto use
    a serif font for body-text, and sans-serif for headers.\r\n\r\nyet -- like you
    -- i prefer sans-serif myself.  (and i said so.)\r\n\r\nbut again, with e-books
    (and print-on-demand for p-books),\r\nall these either/or choices need to be decided
    by the _reader_,\r\nnot by the _creator_ of the book.\r\n\r\n(and it is because
    of its fixed nature, which does not permit\r\na reader to control these variables,
    that i hate .pdf so much.)\r\n\r\n\r\n>   I prefer sans for most current ebook
    settings, but \r\n>   I\u2019d sooner be eviscerated with a spoon than\r\n>   read
    a 300-page ebook set in Arial or Helvetica.\r\n\r\nand thus the importance of
    letting the reader decide...        :+)\r\n\r\n(but you were exaggerating a little
    bit.  weren't you?)          ;+)\r\n\r\n\r\n>   \u201Cmixed\u201D mode (cross
    between \u201Cindent\u201D and \u201Cblock\u201D mode \r\n>   for paragraph separation)
    is something that would \r\n>   make most typographers barf.\r\n\r\nwell, after
    you've seen how it looks, you'll probably change\r\n\"most typographers barf\"
    to \"almost all typographers barf\".\r\n\r\nbut it paves the way to consider a
    reasonable \"compromise\",\r\nwhich is to indent the paragraphs _and_ leave \"space
    above\"\r\neach paragraph, just as most book-typographers do, right?\r\n\r\nand
    you can probably guess where i'll go with that, which is\r\nto let the reader
    decide how much \"space above\" will be used.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   have you consulted
    a lawyer about the repercussions \r\n>  of moving the copyright notice to the
    end? \r\n>   I\u2019ll bet you lunch at a nice restaurant that \r\n>   most copyright
    lawyers would say it\u2019s a bad idea \r\n>   because you want to warn people
    up front of the copyright.\r\n\r\ni try to \"consult a lawyer\" as little as possible.\r\n\r\nand
    most _especially_ the copyright lawyers...\r\n\r\nplus i'd be wary of any advice
    that anything is \"a bad idea\"\r\ndue to a need to \"warn people up front of
    the copyright\",\r\nbecause \"copyright warnings\" are now a laughing-stock...\r\n\r\nat
    any rate, here's what the government has to say:\r\n>   http://www.copyright.gov/circs/circ03.html#intro\r\n\r\nunder
    \"position of notice\" it says:\r\n>   The following locations and methods of
    affixation \r\n>   are examples of appropriate position of notice. \r\n>   These
    examples are not exhaustive.\r\n\r\nit gives these examples, under \"works published
    in book form\":\r\n>   Title page\r\n>   Page immediately following the title
    page\r\n>   Either side of the front or back cover\r\n>   First or last page of
    the main body of the work\r\n\r\nso it looks like the last page would be fine.\r\n\r\nor,
    if an e-book falls in the class of \"works reproduced\r\nin machine-readable copies\",
    the first example there is:\r\n>   With or near the title or at the end of the
    work\r\n\r\nso again, it looks like the last page is fine.\r\n\r\nbut, you know,
    i'm not a lawyer, and i'm glad i'm not,\r\nso if _you_ want to consult a lawyer,
    it won't be me...\r\n\r\nagain, thanks for the feedback thomas...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-09 01:39:53'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Tracking.
  created: '2009-03-09 03:56:39'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "<em>indent the paragraphs _and_ leave \u201Cspace above\u201D\r\neach paragraph,
    just as most book-typographers do, right?</em>\r\n\r\nI think that would be either/or,
    not both (if we are actually talking about first-line indents)?"
  created: '2009-03-09 04:27:55'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "christopher said:\r\n>   Tracking.\r\n\r\ni've found tracking isn't much
    good\r\nwhen placing text on-screen.\r\n\r\nfirst of all, negative tracking is
    awful.\r\nso bad i think nobody would like it...\r\n\r\nand some people might
    not _mind_\r\npositive tracking, but realistically,\r\nit just doesn't help too
    much either.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nparagraph said:\r\n>   I think that would be either/or,
    not both \r\n>   (if we are actually talking about first-line indents)?\r\n\r\nyes,
    first-line indents...\r\n\r\nand my impression is that _most_\r\nbook-designers
    use \"space above\"\r\non the paragraph _in_addition_to_\r\nthe standard first-line
    indentation...\r\n\r\nbut i can't point to a support reference\r\nfor my position.
    \ can you, for yours?\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\np.s.  mojo, i'll get to your post
    next!      :+)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-09 18:23:07'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: If this is what a [[http://www.penny-arcade.com/comic/2009/3/9/progress/|"p-book"]]
    is, it's definitely as hilarious as I first thought. If I call myself a "p-book
    specialist" instead of a "book designer" do I qualify for a salary increase?
  created: '2009-03-09 19:20:14'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"i am a poet. and lowercase is\r\npart of my artistic expression.\"\r\n\r\nBut
    this is a forum. Communication should probably trump artistic expression when
    seeking feedback from others.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-09 19:54:09'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Bad boy, Christopher, tracking in public.
  created: '2009-03-09 22:26:33'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: "<em>p.s. mojo, i\u2019ll get to your post next! :+)</em>\r\n\r\nOoh, I'm
    getting goosebumps!"
  created: '2009-03-09 23:04:47'
- author:
    name: Nachos
    picture: 116245
  body: "<em>\"Communication should probably trump artistic expression when seeking
    feedback from others.\"</em>\r\n\r\nAgreed. My brain hurts trying to read this
    post. Time to cuddle up with well designed, non-fiction \"p-book\"."
  created: '2009-03-09 23:08:47'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "christopher dean said:\r\n>   it\u2019s definitely as hilarious as I first
    thought. \r\n\r\ngreat!  glad that this thread is entertaining you!\r\n\r\nand
    you get extra credit for coming up with\r\na topical link -- a comic from _today_
    --\r\nto illustrate your point.  except you pointed\r\nto a _web_comic_ (ohno!),
    not one in _print_,\r\nso i now have to take away the extra credit\r\n_and_ dock
    you two additional points as well.\r\nsorry, but those are the rules of the luddites...
    \    :+)\r\n\r\nhowever, you _can_ get one of those points\r\nreturned, if you
    mail me -- yes, snail-mail --\r\na self-address-stamped-envelope (number 10).\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  If I call myself a \u201Cp-book specialist\u201D\r\n>   instead of a \u201Cbook
    designer\u201D \r\n>   do I qualify for a salary increase?\r\n\r\num, yes, you
    do.  go demand it from your boss.\r\nif s/he gives you any trouble, just tell
    them that\r\nthe lowercase poet said it, so it _must_ be true...\r\nit'll be completely
    convincing and win your case.\r\n\r\nhowever, if you work for a major publishing
    house,\r\nyou'll be laid off next quarter anyway, so it would be\r\nbetter to
    skip the raise and just go find another job.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\naluminum said:\r\n>
    \  Communication should probably\r\n>   trump artistic expression \r\n>   when
    seeking feedback from others.\r\n\r\ni don't need feedback _that_ badly...           :+)\r\n\r\nso
    do please feel free to move along,\r\nit won't hurt my feelings...          ;+)\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-10 00:11:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I personally encourage e-book development quite fervently. And yes, many
    rules need to be seen for what they are: dumb legacies. One way an e-book should
    improve over the hardcopy legacy is that instead of presenting text on recto and
    verso pages that are flipped in pairs, the text columns should be presented in
    a continuous horizontal sequence (breaking only where it makes content sense).\r\n\r\nMy
    strongest bit of advice however is this: you will only serve your own ego, and
    never any reader, by classing your artistic expression above humble functionality,
    clear communication. Design is about servitude, not expression; being made by
    a human for other humans, personal expression will surely come out, but it must
    be allowed to do so only <em>in spite</em> of you.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-10 03:39:57'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "<em>Title: greetings, and a request for feedback\r\n\r\nBody: i don\u2019t
    need feedback _that_ badly... :+)</em>\r\n\r\nI agree."
  created: '2009-03-10 05:18:39'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Christopher Dean, thanks for shedding some light on the mysterious \"p-book\".
    \r\nI found another definition <a href=\"http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=p-book\">here</a>.
    ;-)\r\n\r\nAnd another one <a href=\"http://www.wordspy.com/words/p-book.asp\">here</a>."
  created: '2009-03-10 05:44:56'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "hrant said:\r\n>   you will only serve your own ego, \r\n>   and never any
    reader, by classing \r\n>   your artistic expression above \r\n>   humble functionality,
    clear communication.\r\n\r\nyou seem to be confusing my posts\r\nwith the tools
    that i've programmed.\r\n\r\nlike a film soundtrack, a requirement\r\nfor my tools
    is to be fully transparent.\r\nthey exist only to accent your content.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-10 06:07:01'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "i did indeed ask for feedback here...\r\n\r\nand i intend to reflect true
    appreciation\r\nfor the feedback i receive in full measure\r\nas my reciprocation
    for the value therein.\r\n\r\nbut if you think i'm gonna compromise\r\nmy artistic
    integrity for that feedback,\r\nyou're wrong.  i don't need it that badly.\r\n\r\nso,
    are we clear?\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-10 06:16:38'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I was going to comment further, but I won't help people who incite or encourage
    piracy. So I'm out of this thread.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-03-10 08:53:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> you seem to be confusing my posts\r\n> with the tools that i\u2019ve programmed.\r\n\r\n1)
    I worry that there's a relationship. You are, after all, one person.\r\n2) If
    you want us to read your posts easily, you will subvert your artistry and accommodate
    <em>other people</em>. You might think we're making a mountain of a molehill,
    but we care about details here, about optimal functional performance. It's not
    the only thing we care about, but many of us don't encourage making functionality
    a lower priority.\r\n\r\n> i don\u2019t need it that badly.\r\n\r\nYou should
    consider that we cannot provide what you might need badly: blind gushing admiration.
    If you want to flame artistic, this is simply the wrong place, I'm sorry to say.
    Actually, I'm not sorry to say!\r\n\r\n> I won\u2019t help people who incite or
    encourage piracy.\r\n\r\nMaybe we can -and should- help them\r\nsee the damage
    that piracy causes?\r\n\r\nOr is this case hopeless?\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBowerbird
    (note the cap), do you have any reaction to my columns idea? I wanted to get the
    elephant in your room more exposure first, but I do have some more technical ideas
    (like concerning resolution, tracking, etc.), I just don't want them to go to
    waste at your ego altar. Can you handle it?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-10 13:56:18'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "thomas said:\r\n>   I was going to comment further, but \r\n>   I won\u2019t
    help people who incite or encourage piracy.\r\n\r\nwhat i was \"inciting and encouraging\"
    (in that other thread)\r\nwas _some_thought_ about the _reality_ of the situation...\r\n\r\nbut,
    you know, if you'd rather stick your head in the sand,\r\nor run away, feel free.
    \ you're not the first person to do that.\r\n\r\nlet me repeat the crux:  the
    pirates laugh at your impotence.\r\n\r\n(and me personally?  there's so much bona-fide
    free content\r\nout there already that i feel absolutely no need to _pirate_,\r\nor
    to buy anything at all from the corporate content cartel.\r\nas for fonts, i'm
    gonna use helvetica, because i would _love_\r\nto see you eviscerate yourself
    with a spoon some day.)       :+)\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nhrant said:\r\n>   I worry
    that there\u2019s a relationship. \r\n>   You are, after all, one person.\r\n\r\nthere's
    no need to worry.  absolutely no need at all.\r\nmy tools will not transform your
    work to lowercase.\r\ni promise.  (well, not unless you _want_ them to.)\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  If you want us to read your posts easily, you will \r\n>   subvert your artistry
    and accommodate other people. \r\n\r\nlet me proclaim it -- loudly and clearly
    -- for all to hear:\r\nif you don't like my lowercase posts, then don't read them.\r\n\r\nor,
    in other words, i don't care if you read my posts or not.\r\n\r\nindeed, if lowercase
    bothers you, please just move along.\r\nyou will be doing both of us a favor.
    \ yep, it's a win-win!\r\n\r\n\r\n>   You might think we\u2019re making a mountain
    of a molehill\r\n\r\nno, i think you're trying to bully me into conformity.      :+)\r\n\r\nand
    it will not work.  you aren't the first to try, believe me.\r\nand probably not
    the last.  but trust me, you won't succeed.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   but we care about details
    here,\r\n>   about optimal functional performance. \r\n\r\ngosh, i bet that makes
    you feel proud of yourself...\r\n\r\n\r\n>   You should consider that we cannot
    provide \r\n>   what you might need badly: blind gushing admiration. \r\n\r\nyeah,
    right, hrant, that's _exactly_ what i came here for,\r\nthe blind gushing admiration
    typophiles are known for...\r\n\r\n_you_ in particular!           :+)\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  Bowerbird (note the cap)\r\n\r\nhey, you do what you have to do, that's ok
    by me...       :+)\r\n\r\n\r\n>   do you have any reaction to my columns idea?\r\n\r\nto
    tell you the truth, i wasn't exactly sure what you meant.\r\n\r\nand i'm still
    not sure.\r\n\r\nbut perhaps you mean the way your website is structured?\r\n\r\ni
    think it stinks.\r\n\r\nif i came across a whole freakin' book like that, i would\r\ngive
    it to thomas, in the hope he would eviscerate himself.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   I just don\u2019t
    want them to go to waste at your ego altar. \r\n>   Can you handle it?\r\n\r\ni
    buy flame-retardant foam -- you know, the kind they use\r\nat the airport during
    crashes -- by the tanker-truck-load...\r\n\r\nthere's no question i can handle
    you.\r\n\r\ni'm not sure you can handle _me_, though...        :+)\r\n\r\n(especially
    if you keep talking _about_ me,\r\ninstead of about something that's on-topic,\r\nbecause
    i can rip personal stuff to shreds.)\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-10 16:51:10'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"if you don\u2019t like my lowercase posts, then don\u2019t read them.\r\nor,
    in other words, i don\u2019t care if you read my posts or not\"</em>\r\nWell,
    that <em>is</em> a worrisome attitude for someone who programs stuff that should
    be read. Do you have a split-personality thing going on? Or do you consider your
    posts to Typophile to be poetry, and separate from work?\r\n\r\nBowerbird, with
    a mind as closed as yours, don't think you'll ever learn anything. But it seems
    like you don't want that anyway. And by the way, it might help not to call the
    very people whom you turn to for feed-back \"sissies\", like you just did on that
    other thread.\r\nOver and out."
  created: '2009-03-10 18:18:29'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "There are uppercase people and lowercase people, as well as mixed case people.
    \r\n\r\n\"bb\" is most definitely a lowercase person. "
  created: '2009-03-10 18:52:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> there\u2019s so much bona-fide free content out there already\r\n\r\nIf
    you don't mind using crap, sure. And if you can't taste that it's crap, that's
    not anybody else's fault. Oh, and Helvetica?! {Makes coughing sound that sounds
    suspiciously like \"loser\".}\r\n\r\nAnd if you can't tell what a good font looks
    like, your hopes of making a good e-book interface are completely delusional.
    All you can be good at is describing your navel.\r\n\r\n> my tools will not transform
    your work to lowercase.\r\n\r\nOf course that's not what I meant. I meant that
    the artist in you might be too strong to tame when it comes to anything you do.
    Including pretending to engage in discourse.\r\n\r\n> if you don\u2019t like my
    lowercase posts, then don\u2019t read them.\r\n\r\nHa-ha, we laugh at your impotence!\r\n\r\nSeriously:
    if you don't care whether people are reading your posts, please use your own blog.
    This is not expressyourselfwithakeyboard.com.\r\n\r\n> i wasn\u2019t exactly sure
    what you meant.\r\n\r\nWhy didn't you ask?\r\nThat's a rhetorical question, which
    you yourself have already answered.\r\n\r\n> especially if you keep talking _about_
    me\r\n\r\nBut that's the only reason you're here.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-10 19:02:55'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lovethread_5997.jpg]\r\n\r\napologies
    to bb for the caps\r\n\r\nand, to make thomas happy, the image was found on lolcatz.net,\r\nwhich
    carries a public domain notice. so no piracy was condoned"
  created: '2009-03-10 20:22:22'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "publishingmojo said:\r\n>   Like ebook design, pbook design is a compromise
    \r\n>   between the convenience of the reader and \r\n>   the limitations of the
    production process.\r\n\r\nok.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   There\u2019s no justification for
    justification in ebooks, \r\n\r\nha!  \"justification for justification\".  wordplay
    at work.      :+)\r\n\r\n\r\n>   There\u2019s no justification for justification
    in ebooks, \r\n>   because there\u2019s no paper, press time, or shipping.\r\n\r\nwithout
    disputing your point about justification as a\r\nspace-saving device, some people
    also believe that it\r\naids readability.  and there's also the other point that\r\n--
    whatever reasons that caused it to come about --\r\nit's been here a long time
    and people now prefer it...\r\n\r\nso i'm not sure we can discard it so lightly...\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  Paragraphs beginning with an indented first line are \r\n>   another device
    to minimize length and save paper. \r\n\r\nthis one i'm even less sure about.
    \ there is a need to\r\nindicate paragraphs, and indentation is a good way.\r\n\r\nindeed,
    indentation is better than \"block\" paragraphs\r\n(a blank line between paragraphs)
    in some respects...\r\n(e.g., if paragraph-break and page-break co-occur.)\r\n\r\nif
    all we wanted to do was \"save paper\" then pilcrows\r\nwould be what we'd choose,
    and nobody uses them...\r\n\r\n\r\n>   Flush-left paragraphs with an extra line
    or half-line \r\n>   above make sense for ebooks.\r\n\r\njust because it has made
    me curious, why do people\r\nspecify \"flush-left\" like you did right there?
    \ how else\r\nbesides flush-left would you think it could be done?\r\n\r\ncentered?
    \ flush-right with a ragged-left margin?\r\n\r\nsurely nobody would suggest those
    for a _book_.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   Aggregating metadata into frontmatter (the pages
    \r\n>   with Roman-numbered folios at the front of a pbook) \r\n>   is likewise
    an artifact of the space limitations of paper.\r\n\r\ni'm not sure that i see
    how frontmatter \"saves pages\"...\r\n(and the different numbering convention
    can't matter.)\r\n\r\n\r\n>   Put the copyright notice on a splash screen, like
    other\r\n>   software products, or link it to menu bar or toolbar.\r\n\r\nexcept
    an electronic-book is _not_ \"a software product\".\r\nat least we don't want
    people to perceive it in that way...\r\n\r\n\r\n>   The table of contents in a
    pbook is \r\n>   the ancestor of the home-page menu.\r\n\r\nok.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   Its
    column of page numbers is a navigation tool \r\n>   that pbooks required, but
    on ebooks it\u2019s as \r\n>   anachronistic as a foghorn on a space ship. \r\n\r\nnot
    quite so sure about that.  sure, in an e-book,\r\nwe want hotlinks, and not (just)
    pagenumbers...\r\n(more about that _just_ right there in a little bit.)\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  Pbooks are littered with navigation and search tools \r\n>   (numbered pages,
    numbered footnotes, figure and \r\n>   table references, indexes) that were ingenious
    workarounds \r\n>   to the space limitations of the paper page, but don\u2019t
    belong \r\n>   in a hyperlinked medium.\r\n\r\nmore on this below, but what's
    telling here is your\r\nperceptive observation; p-books are \"littered\" with\r\n\"ingenious
    workarounds\" for navigation and search.\r\n\r\nthat's telling because it informs
    us that navigation\r\nand search are _important_aspects_ with any book.\r\n\r\nindeed,
    i've called _navigation_ the most important\r\naspect of a book.  might be a stretch.
    \ or might not.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   What pbook design conventions should we \r\n>   preserve
    or adapt for ebooks?\r\n\r\nthat's a good question.          :+)\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  Readable fonts, for sure, but what\u2019s considered readable \r\n>   is a
    moving target. \r\n\r\ni dodge that \"moving target\" with one very simple tactic;\r\ni
    let the end-readers decide which font they want to use.\r\nthat makes them happy,
    and that makes me happy too...\r\n\r\n\r\n>   Given time, ebooks will evolve their
    own optimal letterforms, \r\n>   and readers may even set preferences for the
    font, size, and \r\n>   leading they prefer.\r\n\r\nthat time is now.         :+)\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  One thing that seems fairly constant is line length, \r\n>   not measured in
    inches (or centimeters or picas), \r\n>   but in characters. The comfort zone
    seems to fall \r\n>   somewhere between 50 and 75 characters per line. \r\n\r\nright.
    \ that's the result found by most of the experiments.\r\n(although it's interesting
    that 75 is 150% of 50, meaning\r\nthere's a pretty big range regarding this \"comfort
    zone\".)\r\n\r\nthe 3 lines in the above paragraph are almost 60 characters.\r\ni
    break almost all of my lines in that 50-75-character range.\r\nand -- at least
    on some boards -- that pisses people off...\r\nyou wouldn't believe how angry
    they get about it.  or maybe\r\nyou would, since some of you are that mad about
    my casing.\r\n(imagine if you were that mad about _both_ of those things!)\r\n\r\nat
    any rate, this is another of the variables i let readers decide.\r\n\r\nand sometimes,
    it depends on the specifics of the situation...\r\n\r\nif you're reading on an
    iphone, for example, or even a kindle,\r\nthat odds are that if the text is at
    a size you find comfortable,\r\nthe line-length might be at the short end of the
    comfort zone.\r\n\r\nfor instance, we could consider a p.r. picture from amazon,\r\nshowing
    a screenful of text as it gets displayed on the kindle.\r\n\r\nhere's that text,
    with each line's character-count to its right:\r\n>   he was slow in learning
    how to talk.  \"my /41\r\n>   parents were so worried,\" he later recalled, \"that
    /50\r\n>   they consulted a doctor,\"  even after he had begun /50\r\n>   using
    words, sometime after the age of 2, he /44\r\n>   developed a quirk that prompted
    the family maid /47\r\n>   to dub him \"der depperte,\" the dopey one, and /45\r\n>
    \  others in his family to label him as \"almost /44\r\n>   backwards.\"  whenever
    he had something to say, /46\r\n>   he would try it out on himself, whispering
    it softly /52\r\n>   until it sounded good enough to pronounce aloud. /48\r\n>
    \  \"every sentence he uttered,\" his worshipful /43\r\n>   younger sister recalled,
    \"no matter how routine, /48\r\n>   he repeated to himself softly, moving his
    lips.\"  it /52\r\n>   was all very worrying, she said.  \"he had such /46\r\n>
    \  difficulty with language that those around him /46\r\n>   feared he would never
    learn.\"1 n/a\r\n\r\nand here's a screenful of text as shown on the sony reader:\r\n>
    \  boredom. thursday afternoons were usually a big /47\r\n>   peach day, with
    women getting ready for sunday /46\r\n>   cobblers, but not a soul stopped. n/a\r\n>
    \  t. ray refused to let me bring books out here and /49\r\n>   read, and if i
    smuggled one out, say, lost horizon, /51\r\n>   stuck under my shirt, somebody,
    like mrs. watson /49\r\n>   from the next farm, would see him at church and say
    /51\r\n>   \"saw your girl in the peach stand reading up a storm. /53\r\n>   you
    must be proud.\"  and he would half kill me. n/a\r\n\r\nso we're at (or below)
    the low end of the 50-70 \"comfort zone\".\r\n\r\nas you can imagine, the counts
    go down more with the iphone,\r\nand down even farther on the phones with even
    smaller screens.\r\n\r\nbut newspapers have small columns too, so it's not a problem...\r\n\r\nwe
    have the opposite problem with the big monitors nowadays.\r\nthey are now far
    too wide to present a comfortable line-length.\r\n\r\n(which is why blogs, and
    sites like this one, now use columns,\r\nsuch that the _real_ content uses up
    about 1/3 of the screen,\r\nwith the rest splattered with nonsense and ads and
    more b.s.)\r\n\r\nbut that \"problem\" now presents us with a great opportunity...\r\n\r\nour
    monitors are wide enough to do a _facing-pages_display_.\r\n\r\na 2-page view
    returns us to the familiar mode of the p-book...\r\nwith each page being shown
    big enough for pleasant reading.\r\n\r\nmoreover, this 2-page view is useful with
    an e-book because\r\nit allows _one_ of the pages to \"drop away\" in those situations\r\nwhere
    we need some screen-space for some other purpose...\r\n\r\nfor instance, let's
    say the user wants to see the contents page.\r\nyou \"drop away\" one of the pages,
    so as to show the contents.\r\nthis allows the person to \"remain in contact\"
    with the body text\r\n-- via the page which has not \"dropped away\" -- yet still
    have\r\nroom for the other purpose.  having this room as \"workspace\"\r\ncomes
    in handy in all kinds of situations -- where the person\r\nwants to view a larger
    version of a picture, or cycle through all\r\nthe book's pictures, or when they
    want to make an annotation,\r\nor if they want to view pages from different parts
    of the book,\r\nor any number of other situations that arise in the experience...\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  Since ebook publishers have no minimum or maximum number \r\n>   of pages to
    worry about, they should optimize line length and \r\n>   let the number of lines
    be whatever it needs to be.\r\n\r\nif we were going to \"switch over\" entirely
    from paper to screens,\r\nand all the paper-books were to disappear overnight,
    and we\r\nwould never ever print out a book again for the rest of our lives,\r\nthen
    we could throw out all of our past rules and _start_over_...\r\n\r\nbut that's
    not our situation.\r\n\r\nwe need to have a more-gradual transformation...\r\n\r\nso
    we need to do some more thinking...  more on that later...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-10 20:51:41'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "altaira said:\r\n>   Well, that is a worrisome attitude for someone \r\n>
    \  who programs stuff that should be read. \r\n\r\nunless you're reading my source-code,
    why would you care?\r\n\r\nlook, it's pretty simple, so i'm sure that even you
    can understand:\r\nit you enter mixed-case text into my programs, the .pdf output\r\nand
    the .html output will be mixed-case text.  just like the input.\r\n\r\nbut if
    you have any more questions, i'll be happy to answer them.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   Do you
    have a split-personality thing going on? \r\n\r\nno.  yes.  why do you ask?  i
    don't know.  ask me tomorrow.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   Or do you consider your posts to
    Typophile to be poetry, \r\n>   and separate from work?\r\n\r\nthe casing of my
    posts to this forum, or any other forum,\r\ndo not have any effect on the output
    of my tools.  none.\r\nzero.  zilch.  nada.  absolutely no effect.  at all.  capiche?\r\n\r\nis
    there anyone else who needs clarification on this fact?\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nhrant
    said:\r\n>   Oh, and Helvetica?! {Makes coughing sound that \r\n>   sounds suspiciously
    like \u201Closer\u201D.}\r\n\r\nhey, i agree.  how did helvetica ever make its
    reputation?\r\ni think it's a crappy font.\r\n\r\nyou know a font i like?  comic
    sans.  that's a nice clean font.\r\ni don't know why people hate it so much.  i
    think it's funny.\r\nputs me in a good mood every time i see type in comic sans.\r\n\r\nbut
    most of the time i use the mac font, lucida grande.\r\noccasionally i choose verdana.
    \ that's another nice font.\r\nand when i have to use a serif, i usually choose
    georgia.\r\nthe best things bill gates ever did were (1) verdana, and\r\n(2) georgia,
    and (3) making a charity to fight malaria...\r\n\r\n\r\n>   And if you can\u2019t
    tell what a good font looks like, \r\n>   your hopes of making a good e-book interface
    \r\n>   are completely delusional. All you can be good at \r\n>   is describing
    your navel.\r\n\r\ni doubt you want to hear a description of my navel.\r\n\r\nand
    i _can_ tell you what a good font looks like.\r\nin fact, i just did.  i like
    comic sans.  looks good.\r\n\r\nbut hey, i don't need to impose my taste on _you_.\r\nor
    on any of my users.  or on any of their readers...\r\n\r\nso i let the authors
    pick _whatever_ font they want,\r\nas long as they have it on their machine, legal
    or not.\r\n\r\nthen i let the readers pick whatever font _they_ want,\r\nas long
    as they have it on their machine, legal or not.\r\nincluding comic sans.\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  But that\u2019s the only reason you\u2019re here.\r\n\r\nnow, hrant.  you remember
    what your psychologist said\r\nabout keeping your projection in check, don't you?
    \            :+)\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-10 21:11:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> i don\u2019t need to impose my taste on _you_.\r\n\r\nFirst you would need
    to have some.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-10 22:41:10'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "umm-umm-good.  comic sans.  yummy!  tastes great!\r\n\r\n-bowerbird"
  created: '2009-03-10 22:44:44'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "i feel that most poets would be\r\noffended by seeing your\r\nself-important
    crap arranged \r\nin stanzas as if it meant anything"
  created: '2009-03-10 22:59:46'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "um, it's even more fun to offend \"most poets\"\r\nthan it is to offend \"most
    typophile posters\"...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-10 23:59:59'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: "<em>just because it has made me curious, why do people\r\nspecify \u201Cflush-left\u201D
    like you did right there? how else\r\nbesides flush-left would you think it could
    be done?</em>\r\n\r\n<em>centered? flush-right with a ragged-left margin?</em>\r\n\r\nJust
    because you asked, \"flush left\" in this rather specialized context refers to
    the first line of the paragraph, which is flush left as opposed to being indented."
  created: '2009-03-11 21:07:03'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "publishingmojo said:\r\n>   \u201Cflush left\u201D in this rather specialized
    context \r\n>   refers to the first line of the paragraph, which \r\n>   is flush
    left as opposed to being indented.\r\n\r\noh, ok, great, thanks for explaining
    that to me.\r\ni knew there must be something i was missing.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-11 22:12:04'
- author:
    name: fi
    picture: 113733
  body: wow this thread is a clusterfuck
  created: '2009-03-11 22:27:40'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: ">   clusterfuck\r\n\r\nyes, i feel like i have been welcomed quite officially
    now!        :+)\r\n\r\ni'd like to thank all the commenters here for making me
    feel at home...\r\n\r\nyou're a swell bunch of guys -- seriously, is there any
    estrogen here? --\r\nand i'm sure we're gonna have _lots_ of fun interacting in
    the future...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-11 22:58:05'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>look, it\u2019s pretty simple, so i\u2019m sure that even you can understand</em>\r\n\r\nThat
    sounds like you're insulting altaira. Why do you think we have to put up with
    insults?\r\n\r\nYou will lose friends and influence no one with that attitude.\r\n\r\nOver
    and out."
  created: '2009-03-12 01:01:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "but he doesn't need friends _that_ badly... :+++)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-12 02:23:54'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "ricardo said:\r\n>   That sounds like you\u2019re insulting altaira.\r\n\r\ni
    suppose you can make it sound however you want to make it sound.\r\nbut don't
    try to make _me_ responsible for _your_ (mis)interpretations,\r\nbecause i won't
    accept the charges on that collect call.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   You will lose friends
    and influence no one with that attitude.\r\n\r\ni _disdain_ carnegie and his manipulative,
    deceitful philosophy...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-12 03:46:59'
date: '2009-03-05 21:30:44'
node_type: forum
title: greetings, and a request for feedback

---
