---
author:
  name: piccic
  picture: 110375
body: "Although I have read about the issue occasionally in a few threads, I am unsure
  about this question:\r\nStylistic sets are ideally created to address a range of
  glyphs substitution, and I also think it works better to use them for full range
  substitutions (i.e. Swashed forms, Mediaeval forms, etc.)\r\nInversely, I may just
  wish to have a single alternate glyph, which may allow the user to have \u2013 let's
  say \u2014 a more traditional [t] than the one I have decided to be standard.\r\n\r\nIn
  these cases, how do you think it's better to place that simple alternate?\r\nI know
  some designers (for example, Karsten), like the idea of using Stylistic Sets as
  well, even for a single glyph, but I'm not so attracted by this \"multiplication
  of the sets\"\u2026 :)\r\nWould it be fine to use [salt], or maybe I could just
  include the glyph and not address the automatic handling of the substitution?\r\nAfter
  all, in lead we just entered the single alternates manually\u2026 :=)\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: "In my experience typesetting things with alternate glyphs I found it incredibly
    useful to be able to access each alternate in separate stylistic sets. So your
    t.alt would go in Stylistic Set 1, a Q.alt in Stylistic Set 2, etc.\r\n\r\nThis
    allows for someone to easily select a block of text and toggle each alternate
    individually. You should do it this way, unless there's a conceptual reason to
    group things together in a single feature. Or unless someone with actual technical
    knowledge of proper opentype etiquette wants to weight in. "
  created: '2009-03-07 04:45:23'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Thank you. As I said, Karsten L\xFCcke is in favor of the option you suggest,
    but I'm not the number one supporter of excessively automated things, since they
    tend to compensate a lack of professional skills which you should acquire to lay
    out a page, no matter if you see it as a \"graphic designer\", graffiti artist,
    stonecarver or plain street guy.\r\nI already have conceptual sets, but when it
    comes to single glyphs I think the ability to access them relies also on how good
    is your layout software (and interface).\r\n\r\nSo I'd like to hear the procedures
    of others to see how they behave when there is a single (or few) alternate glyphs
    which by no means represent a stylistic set, but just a viable alternate form."
  created: '2009-03-07 11:36:41'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "As primarily a type user, I use the stylistic sets for single glyphs when
    I want them \"on\" or \"off\" always in a text. For example, I usually draw up
    an alternate old style \"1\" for fonts where the os \"1\" looks like a small-cap
    \"I\". If I don't, sure as shootin there will be an editor who insists on not
    using os figs at all, because of that \"1.\" That alternate \"1\" goes in a stylistic
    set, which will be on for the whole job; I'll  switch it on in the basic paragraph
    on which all other paragraphs are based.\r\n\r\nThough it is a set of two, I've
    also taken to making angle brackets for text fonts. I have a stylistic set where
    I switch them with the greater and less glyphs. The reason is, many text's have
    URLs where the author insists on using the form &lt;http&gt; as a part of the
    reference. So, for the bibliography paragraph style, I'll switch on that set &
    not think twice. If the text proper has such constructions, you have to search
    the text & make sure that \"greater\" and \"less\" aren't used mathematically.
    If not, again, I'll switch on the set in the basic paragraph style.\r\n\r\nOn
    the other hand, glyphs intended for occasional use should probably not be a part
    of a stylistic set, but placed by the compositor by hand. An obvious example would
    be swash letters, though that's handled by a separate feature.\r\n\r\nFor me,
    it is a matter of how stylistic sets are best used, not \"how many\" members a
    set has.\r\n\r\nFWIW"
  created: '2009-03-07 13:08:11'
- author:
    name: Michael Jarboe
  body: "So are you saying for each 'alternative stylistic character' (stylistic A,
    or a stylistic O), it should be placed in a separate set (SS01, SS02)?\r\n\r\nI
    always wondered about that\u2026 if multiple characters are in one set the user
    might only want one activated over the other, no problem if it's a small amount
    of display text to edit but for large bodies of text having to turn on a stylistic
    set, only to go back through and deactivate a specific character within that set
    would be a lot of work."
  created: '2009-03-07 15:26:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Charles, that's interesting. So it is the old style 1 and not the old style
    \"ring\" 0 that's the problem for some editors?\r\n\r\nHere on Typophile some
    folks have strongly objected to the ring old style zero on aesthetic grounds.
    But they don't usually mention the one, which looks like a small cap I, as you
    say. \r\n\r\nI have just completed doing small caps figures, and in the process
    have finally understood the logic behind the design of the old style 0 and 1.
    --The clue was that I needed to narrow the old style 2 to make it harmonious with
    the regular, narrow 0 for the small caps, as opposed to old style figures.    \r\n\r\nBy
    hanging the 34579 and raising the 68, the oldstyle design enables the part of
    the figure between the base line and x-height to have a width and color similar
    to the lower case letters, and still look properly proportioned to be recognizable.
    That's why they fit so well with text. \r\n\r\nThe 012 pose problems. You can
    make the 2 wide and be still recognizable, which is what is normally done. You
    could also make the top into an ascender, which I think a few typefaces do. \r\n\r\nMaking
    the 1 like a small cap I enables you to stretch the serifs, and push it wider
    than the one with a barbed top, so it fits better with the other letters and still
    looks not too bad. And after all it is differentiated from the lower case i and
    the cap I, so it works in text. \r\n\r\nMaking the 0 wide, as the design concept
    demands visually, can confuse it with the lower case 'o'. Hence the 'ring' or
    relatively unstressed zero solves the problem by avoiding confusion and keeping
    the width. I think the ring 0 can also look decent by 'cheating' and making it
    a bit oval instead of circular, and a bit stressed. There are more difficulties,
    as people here have pointed out, with heavier weights--which old style fonts originally
    didn't have.\r\n\r\nBut what I am realizing is that because there is no ideal
    solution you have to choose your poison, so to speak. If you have a wide stressed
    0 it is going to be confusable with the 'o'. If you have the barbed 1 it is going
    to look less harmonious with the other old style figures. \r\n\r\nTo get around
    to the point, I think that if you have old style figures, particularly in a seriffed
    font, the situation argues for putting both an alternative old style barbed 1,
    and alternative stressed, wide old style zero each in its own stylistic alternative
    set. Then people can choose among four options, and \"sei gesunt\", go off in
    good health.   \r\n\r\nPersonally, I prefer the original old style design, but
    then [[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gYXHeP9PydQ|I'm old fashioned.]]     "
  created: '2009-03-07 18:51:05'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>Charles, that\u2019s interesting. So it is the old style 1 and not
    the old style \u201Cring\u201D 0 that\u2019s the problem for some editors?</cite>\r\n\r\nYes.
    The ring zero, or worse, the reverse-stress \"Stempel\" zero are problems for
    graphic designers, but usually not editors. Most of the designers I know just
    avoid a font if they can't abide a glyph, editors are different creatures. And
    it is a little different, as there are those lining numbers for the editors latch
    on to.\r\n\r\nI have been known to make up alternate zeros as well, for the few
    designers that ask. I don't countenance the argument that a zero that looks like
    a lower-case \"oh\" is confusing, for the simple reason that you almost never
    see an \"oh\" in the middle of a string of numbers. And in the style we usually
    (have to) follow, single-digits are usually spelled out, so you don't see just
    a zero by itself.\r\n\r\nTo somewhat tie this in to the original question, I suppose
    I'd put an alternate zero in a stylistic set by itself.\r\n\r\nI'm more sanguine
    about alternate alphabetical characters -- the only one's I can thing of off-hand
    would be lower-case a (one & two tiered), and maybe the lower case g & y. If you're
    going to switch the g & y, with most designs it is best to do them together.\r\n\r\nI
    do think a text typeface with too many alternate glyphs is just a real chore to
    use. You have to hope the font designer provided adequate notes with the font.
    In any case, if all those 20 stylistic sets are filed up, using the font is going
    to get confusing unless there is a real logic to it all. Display type could be
    a different matter, but then why not just get the glyphs from the glyph pallet
    where you can (somewhat) see what you are doing? "
  created: '2009-03-07 20:39:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Charles, I think you are right practically that the 0 comes in the middle
    of other figures, and so is not confusing. The same argument applies to the 1,
    though, so in theory editors should not be bothered by the small cap 'I' style.
    \r\n\r\nAs to the O being confused with the o, I'd have to check, but IIRC originally
    they made the 012 exactly at x-height, not bigger as we do now, so then it was
    more of a problem. Here in Georgia you don't notice any problem.  But when the
    year 2010 comes, maybe true old style will look better?\r\n\r\nBy the way, I suspect
    hinting makes the 0 and o of Georgia look more different in size here on the screen
    than they do in print.  "
  created: '2009-03-07 21:02:48'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Originally, when stylistic sets were conceived, the authors of the OpenType
    specification throught that they should be mutually exclusive. And indeed, in
    the user interface of Mac OS X (the Typography palette), they are accessible through
    a series of mutually-exclusive radio buttons. \r\n\r\nBut in Adobe InDesign, the
    user interface treats them as additive, so the user can enable ss01 and ss04,
    for example, at the same time. And there have been more and more fonts that make
    use of this notion. I myself am a proponent of that approach as well \u2014 or
    at least, of the notion that it should be up to the type designer to choose whichever
    method works for him best. \r\n\r\nI guess a sensible principle is: one stylistic
    set should substitute glyphs that should be substituted together (at the same
    time). \r\n\r\nWhatever that may mean in practice. In some cases, it may mean
    that an entire alphabetic range is substituted by one ssXX feature, especially
    if the type designer thinks that mixing glyphs from different sets does not make
    much sense. But if your design has an alternative \"R\", an alternative \"K\"
    and alternative \"M\", and each of those glyphs is in a way independent of the
    others, so selectively substituting them one by one does make sense design-wise,
    I would then by all means put them into separate sets. \r\n\r\nAs far as salt
    vs. ssXX is concerned, I've outlined my view here: \r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/17887\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/32399\r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-07 21:31:17'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "And should you feel experimental, here's some ideas for you: \r\n\r\n<code>feature
    ss01 { \r\nsub a by a.ss01; \r\n} ss01;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature ss02 { \r\nsub
    a.ss01 by a.ss02; \r\nsub b by b.ss02; \r\n} ss02;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature
    ss03 { \r\nsub a.ss02 by a.ss03; \r\nsub b.ss01 by b.ss03; \r\nsub c by c.ss03;
    \r\n} ss03; </code>\r\n\r\nWhen <code>ss01</code> is enabled, <code>a</code> will
    be replaced by <code>a.ss01</code>. \r\n\r\nWhen <code>ss02</code> is enabled,
    <code>b</code> will be replaced by <code>b.ss02</code>. \r\n\r\nBut if <code>ss01</code>
    and <code>ss02</code> are enabled at the same time, <code>b</code> will be replaced
    by <code>b.ss02</code> but <code>a</code> will be replaced by <code>a.ss02</code>
    rather than by <code>a.ss01</code>. \r\n\r\nIn other words, you can design your
    stylistic sets so that something happens on ss01, something else happens on ss02
    and something yet different happens on ss01+ss02. \r\n\r\n<code>feature ss01 {
    \r\nsub a by a.ss01; \r\nsub d by d.ss01; \r\nsub g by g.ss01; \r\n} ss01;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature
    ss02 { \r\nsub b by b.ss02; \r\nsub e by e.ss02; \r\nsub s by s.ss02; \r\n} ss02;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature
    ss03 { \r\nsub c by c.ss03; \r\nsub f by f.ss03; \r\nsub w by w.ss03; \r\n} ss03;
    </code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature calt {\r\n  sub [a.ss01-z.ss01] [a-z]' by [a.ss01-z.ss01];\r\n
    \ sub [a.ss02-z.ss02] [a-z]' by [a.ss02-z.ss02];\r\n  sub [a.ss03-z.ss03] [a-z]'
    by [a.ss03-z.ss03];\r\n} calt;</code>\r\n\r\nDoesn't make so much sense by itself
    but illustrates the idea that the stylistic sets by themselves can perform some
    actions but they can also trigger different behaviors of, say, the \"contextual
    alternates\" feature, so in essence, you could have different \"branches\" of
    contextual behaviors implemented that way. \r\n\r\nBTW, you can even implement
    separate contextual behaviors within each ssXX feature. The ssXX features do not
    have to be simple \"a by a.1, b by b.1\" substitutions.  \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam"
  created: '2009-03-07 21:58:43'
- author:
    name: Michael Jarboe
  body: "That gets interesting creating the behaviors with it, didn't realize that
    was possible, so you basically override the previous set behavior as each additional
    set is activated depending on how you set it up\u2026 thanks for the reply\u2026
    good information\u2026"
  created: '2009-03-07 22:31:39'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"In other words, you can design your stylistic sets so that something
    happens on ss01, something else happens on ss02 and something yet different happens
    on ss01+ss02.\"</em>\r\nThat looks very exciting! I didn't think that was possible.\r\nOne
    question from the newbie fraction though: don't many users think of stylistic
    sets as purely additive and somewhat static, and wouldn't one risk terminally
    confusing some of them by introducing this kind of cross referencing between stylistic
    sets? Also because that would imply that as a curious user, you wouldn't just
    want to try out the 20 stylistic sets in isolation, but also all possible combinations
    between them \u2013 which would probably warrant a rather large manual, or require
    a *lot* of time playing around with the font."
  created: '2009-03-07 22:55:09'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: "'So it is the old style 1 and not the old style \u201Cring\u201D 0 that\u2019s
    the problem for some editors?'\r\n\r\nIn my experience, the 1 has always been
    the reason an art director has requested lining instead of old style figures.
    In some cases this has required changing the font entirely. I've never had a problem
    when the 1 has a flag serif instead of the I though, and in some cases I've gone
    as far as substituting a more contemporary 1 from a similar font just to get the
    design approved. "
  created: '2009-03-07 23:15:08'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>I\u2019ve never had a problem when the 1 has a flag serif instead of
    the I though . . .</cite>\r\n\r\nHow about the abbreviation for \"Interstate 10\",
    using small caps & os figs?"
  created: '2009-03-08 01:45:32'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Adam: <em>But in Adobe InDesign, the user interface treats them as additive,
    so the user can enable ss01 and ss04, for example, at the same time. And there
    have been more and more fonts that make use of this notion. I myself am a proponent
    of that approach as well \u2014 or at least, of the notion that it should be up
    to the type designer to choose whichever method works for him best.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    agree with the sentiment of allowing the type designer to choose whether the ssXX
    features should be additive or exclusive, but I can't figure out how to make them
    truly exclusive within the InDesign UI model. One can make the lookups map variants
    from all sets to the specific stylistic set variants, but the order of the lookups
    still means that if more than one feature is turned on the later-processed lookups
    will override the earlier ones, regardless of the order in which the user has
    turned the features on. So, presuming lookup order follows feature order, if the
    user turns on stylistic set 7 in the InDesign UI, and then turns on stylistic
    set 4, the stylistic set 7 glyphs will still display, because that lookup is processed
    after the stylistic set 4 lookups.\r\n\r\nSo the user, not the type designer,
    is ultimately responsible for making the sets exclusive through selection of only
    one feature at a time.\r\n___\r\n\r\nRegarding use of stylistic set features to
    implement changes to single glyphs, rather than to sets of glyphs such as alphabet
    subsets: this is not what I had in mind when I defined the stylistic set features,
    and this is also why there are only twenty such sets. If one wanted to use stylistic
    sets to mix and match different variants of individual glyphs one would quickly
    run out of features.\r\n\r\nPeter Constable at MS, working with his former colleagues
    at SIL, have been working on a feature spec for a hundred character variant features."
  created: '2009-03-08 03:36:08'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>Peter Constable at MS, working with his former colleagues at SIL, have
    been working on a feature spec for a hundred character variant features.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis
    were nice to have and to see it supported in applications. I am very curious for
    the interface which can give access to so many alternates!"
  created: '2009-03-08 12:51:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Charles, your arguments and those of others here have converted me. I do
    think that the small cap \"I\" style is good aesthetically, but if it's increasingly
    alienating to editors and some readers, that's for me a decisive argument against
    making it the default style. And the current old style numbers being above x-height
    makes the stressed 0 sufficiently different from the o. \r\n\r\nSo now I'm thinking
    that the best thing is to follow the lead of this font, Georgia, and use the stressed
    0 and barbed 1 as default. I will put the classic style zero and one in an ss00
    style group for those who want the traditional look on their old style figures.
    \ \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-08 15:12:08'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "Charles_e said: <cite>I don\u2019t countenance the argument that a zero that
    looks like a lower-case \u201Coh\u201D is confusing, for the simple reason that
    you almost never see an \u201Coh\u201D in the middle of a string of numbers<cite>\r\n\r\nAn
    aside: in Spanish, \u201Co\u201D is the equivalent for the English \u201Cor\u201D,
    so it is possible to see a sequence like \u201C1 o 2\u201D, (i. e., \u201Cone
    or two\u201D) and some people could read it wrongly as \u201Cone zero two\u201D
    or, if the space between numbers is not big enough, \u201Cone hundred two\u201D.\r\n\r\nI
    hope it will never happen to a doctor reading the dose he should give to his patient.
    :S"
  created: '2009-03-08 20:15:25'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: OK, good reason to have the zero look different from the "oh." Can be fatter
    with fonts that have a narrow "oh", narrower with fonts having a wide "oh" --
    like Hypatia sans.
  created: '2009-03-09 00:05:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Charles, I wish it were that easy to solve--making the old style 0 proportionally
    much wider or narrower than the o. The problem is that going too much one way
    or the other and the old style figures--and the 0 needs to be harmonious with
    the rest of them--won''t fit in as well with the text, which is sort of their
    whole point.  '
  created: '2009-03-09 02:14:38'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Wow, great response, thank you! :=)\r\n\r\nI guess Adam has addressed the
    core of my question, but I'll be back to read in full later on\u2026\r\n\r\n<cite>
    BTW, you can even implement separate contextual behaviors within each ssXX feature.
    The ssXX features do not have to be simple \u201Ca by a.1, b by b.1\u201D substitutions.
    </cite>\r\nHo do you do that, and which would be an interesting use?\r\nI mean,
    addressing ligatures is already a sort of \"contextual\" behaviour within sets,
    since the more complex they are, you have to address them first (if I recall correctly,
    heh I'm still a novice\u2026)\r\n\r\nGreat question about the OsF [1] as well.
    Later\u2026"
  created: '2009-03-09 16:47:00'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "About the use of [salt], assuming I am limiting its use to spare glyphs,
    which is the usefulness of a similar code:\r\n\r\n<code> sub b from [b.1 b.2 b.3];
    </code>\r\n\r\nI ask because I have never used other applications than InDesign
    and basic Apple apps, and I can't figure out precisely how the three [b] variants
    are accessed in this way."
  created: '2009-03-09 18:51:30'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Addenda: After creating a set for my alternate [t], I have re-read the thread
    Stylistic Alternatives, and Thomas Phinney's words:\r\n\r\n<cite> Mark et al:
    Personally, I would not consider it egregious to have a stylistic set that only
    affected one glyph. I do think it would be a really bad idea to put completely
    unrelated things in a single stylistic set, as the whole point of a stylistic
    set is to get a consistent look, and it\u2019s meant to be applied globally.\r\nAlso
    of note is the idea that \u2019salt\u2019 is meant to be applied on a single character
    at a time, and implies a UI that allows the user to pick which alternate they
    want for the character being affected.</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd once again I became undecided
    where to put my alternate [t]\u2026 LOL\r\n\r\nBeing a single letter it's not
    a \"stylistic set\" (although that [t] is <em>also</em> part of a Set where all
    letters are substituted, but this is not the key).\r\n\r\nOn the other hand if
    [salt] is meant to be applied to a single character at a time, what happens when
    it contains various character substitutions? If I use [salt] for the [t], I will
    have it currently inaccessible in InDesign, and then if another single alternate
    needs the same treatment what should I use?\r\n\r\nNow I wait for Adobe and Microsoft
    to tell me what I should do\u2026 :P\r\n(not a thing that over-worries me, in
    the end I think I will end up putting it somewhere just to have it addressed by
    [aalt]).\r\n\r\nOr maybe I'm just not done for the code\u2026 :P"
  created: '2009-03-09 20:47:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I ask because I have never used other applications than InDesign and
    basic Apple apps, and I can\u2019t figure out precisely how the three [b] variants
    are accessed in this way.</em>\r\n\r\nThe idea behind OT one-to-one-of-many enumerated
    substitutions is that an application could provide a dynamic mini-palette of variants
    for the user to select from. So, for instance, you would select a character, apply
    the [salt] feature, and up would pop a little palette showing the variant forms
    available for that character. This is similar to some of the input method editors
    for Chinese characters, in which one types a series of phonetic characters and
    is presented with a palette of the possible Chinese characters.\r\n\r\nI'm not
    sure if anyone has actually tried to implement this aspect of OT in a UI. Perhaps
    Apple? It would adapt perhaps more easily to their approach to typographic feature
    menus than to some others."
  created: '2009-03-09 21:12:44'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Thanks John, I guessed that. This reinforces my idea that, as of now, the
    [salt] feature is not so useful, unless the user interface will provide this.\r\nDo
    we have to wait some Italian developing a Tasmeem-like software for setting advanced
    Cancelleresca to have these luxuries in Latin? :=)"
  created: '2009-03-09 21:33:57'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>Regarding use of stylistic set features to implement changes to single
    glyphs, rather than to sets of glyphs such as alphabet subsets: this is not what
    I had in mind when I defined the stylistic set features, and this is also why
    there are only twenty such sets.</em>\r\n\r\nJohn, what exactly did you have in
    mind? Can you give a specific example? The examples in the spec (Poetica and Zapfino)
    are very general. \r\n\r\nAs I understand it, a stylistic set is a set of alternate
    glyphs that changes the appearance of a typeface when they are used. I don't see
    any logical reason why such a set could not consist of a single glyph (possibly
    including its related variants such as accented forms) as long as it changes the
    appearance of the typeface when it is used. The fact that there are only twenty
    possible sets does not necessarily have a bearing on this issue, unless you have
    more than twenty alternate glyphs that you want to use in this way."
  created: '2009-03-09 23:32:36'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "What I had in mind when spec'ing the Stylistic Set features, and discussing
    them with folk at MS and Adobe, were exactly typefaces like Zapfino and Poetica
    in which there are sets of variants that a) are harmoniously consistent with but
    distinct from the other sets and b) harmoniously consistent within themselves.
    If you consider the sets of Poetica letters with formata and corsiva extenders,
    you have a pretty good idea of what I had in mind. At the time, we had recently
    worked on the Apple version of Zapfino, and knew that Linotype would want a mechanism
    to address the variants in an eventual OT version, and that Adobe were facing
    similar needs for Poetica and perhaps some other designs.\r\n\r\nOf course, the
    definition of what constitutes a \u2018set\u2019 for such purposes is vague or,
    rather, design-specific. I wouldn't try to assign a minimum a quantity of glyphs,
    but would try to rationalise sets in terms of consistent variation of related
    shapes or concepts, e.g. ascenders, descenders, terminals, single- vs double-storey
    a and g, etc. Obviously, what happens to a base letter may be expected to carry
    across to diacritic forms of that letter, but these would not necessarily constitute
    a set to my way of thinking, unless the base letter varied in some unique way
    that was not applicable to any other letter.\r\n\r\nSome of my colleagues very
    quickly adapted the stylistic set features to access more finely granulated and
    additive variation, facilitating easy mixing and matching of variants of individual
    letters. I can't blame them because there were no similarly useful and widely
    supported layout features specifically for individual characters. But I knew it
    would only be a matter of time before the limit of 20 stylistic set features became
    an issue for such usage, and I'd say that this became a significant problem for
    some in 2008. For example, SIL are developing fonts for large numbers of languages
    with fluid orthographic norms and inconsistent interpretation of letter shapes,
    so they need a mechanism to allow users to mix and match desired forms for individual
    characters. Critically, the variation in forms is not a consistent stylistic feature
    applied across related shapes, but fundamental inconsistency in the shape of letters
    that Unicode considers a single character. They already have defined more than
    twenty such variations. Another example is that of the very complex OT Arabic
    font being developed by Idris Samawi Hamid, which requires a mechanism to mix
    and match multiple stylistic variants of individual letters in a free way. Again,
    the number of variants exceeds twenty, and are not classifiable as related sets.\r\n\r\nSo
    we're at a point where one of two things needs to happen: either we massively
    increase the number of registered stylistic set features, and in the process redefine
    the purpose of those sets and abandon their original intent, or we register new
    features specifically to address single character variants and maintain a distinction
    between that functionality and that of set variation. I favour the latter for
    a couple of reasons, not least because SIL and MS have already come up with a
    viable feature spec (including, by the way, name string indexing, allowing font
    developers to link human-friendly menu names to features, e.g. 'Left hook Y' or
    'Right hook Y'; a similar mechanism is spec'd to be added to the existing stylistic
    set features). The other reason is that rather than having a hundred stylistic
    set features -- with no very obvious way to tell whether an individual feature
    applies to a set of letters or to an individual letter--, we would have twenty
    stylistic set features and one hundred character variant features, <em>which a
    font developer could make interactive.</em>"
  created: '2009-03-10 00:10:09'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "as a graphic designer, i don't mind having just one glyph per stylistic set.
    especially if i relly want that single story lowercase g, but nothing else, it's
    a lot easier to make that change globally rather than doing a find/replace. \r\n\r\ni
    like the way Neutraface No. 2 Text handles this (especially cap M, lower a and
    g).\r\n\r\nhttp://www.houseind.com/fonts/neutrafaceno2"
  created: '2009-03-10 00:17:47'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">human-friendly menu names \r\n\r\nYes!"
  created: '2009-03-10 00:46:05'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "<cite>so it is possible to see a sequence like \u201C1 o 2\u201D, (i. e.,
    \u201Cone or two\u201D) and some people could read it wrongly as \u201Cone zero
    two\u201D or, if the space between numbers is not big enough, \u201Cone hundred
    two\u201D. </cite>\r\n\r\nActually, \"1 or 2\" in Spanish would be written \"1
    \xF3 2\" and the accent is placed for precisely this reason.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2009-03-10 01:53:51'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Thanks for the explanation, John. It seems that affordances inevitably lead
    to unanticipated (or unintended) usage.\r\n\r\nHypothetically, if a typeface had
    only one alternate (for example, a normal \"t\" and an alternate \"t\"), would
    it violate the spirit or letter of the stylistic sets spec to create a set that
    only affected the \"t\"?\r\n\r\nIncidentally, I think the proposed single character
    variant is a great idea. "
  created: '2009-03-10 01:56:11'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Mark: <em>Hypothetically, if a typeface had only one alternate (for example,
    a normal \u201Ct\u201D and an alternate \u201Ct\u201D), would it violate the spirit
    or letter of the stylistic sets spec to create a set that only affected the \u201Ct\u201D?</em>\r\n\r\nI
    think it would certainly violate both spirit of the stylistic set features, and
    probably the letter too: I would say of such a font that it has no stylistic sets,
    and in terms of existing layout features [salt] would be appropriate. But since
    the [salt] feature is inadequately supported, it is difficult to recommend it."
  created: '2009-03-10 03:24:15'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: 'The human-readable names for stylistic sets are already supported in AFDKO
    2.5. '
  created: '2009-03-10 03:24:50'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "John, \r\n\r\n1. How many glyphs is your minimum for a stylistic set? \r\n\r\n2.
    Why, apart from the fact that it has not been originally conceived that way, does
    having one alternate glyph in a set violate the \"spirit\" of the stylistic set
    features? \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2009-03-10 03:28:36'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Adam, does that mean you can use them in a font, and Adobe's programs will
    read them now? Or does it mean that one step toward this has been done?
  created: '2009-03-10 03:30:22'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "@William: You can put them in a font. Adobe has not made any statements about
    when they'll be supported in applications.\r\n\r\n@John et aliae: The new character
    variants are a fine thing in principle. The problem is they require significant
    UI to work at all, and this means they'll probably never be supported by MS Office
    or Adobe Creative Suite. At least, \"not in the foreseeable future,\" if \"never\"
    is too strong a word. \r\n\r\nThe problems with 'salt' for this purpose are (1)
    that it can't be easily applied globally across text for a specific affects, and
    (2) it doesn't easily do a consistent affect even for a base letter plus its accented
    variants, or for both the tabular and proportional versions of a number. (There
    are few basic English letters that don't have accented forms in a reasonably large
    multi-lingual font.)\r\n\r\nI don't have a good solution, really. My personal
    fallback as a type designer and font developer would be to use stylistic sets
    for now, while badgering Microsoft and Adobe. But I don't hold out much hope on
    that latter front. Plus, there's a tragedy of the commons issue: we'd all be best
    served by getting apps to support the character variants feature, but we'd most
    effectively pressure the app/OS people by building lots of fonts that use that
    feature... yet we'd be doing the best thing for ourselves in the short term by
    ignoring the feature in favor of stylistic sets. Ouch.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-03-10 03:58:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Adam, read my lengthy reply to Mark Simonson. I don't have a quantitative
    minimum for a stylistic set. The set is a concept, the contents of which are recognisable
    by their relationships. Since a single glyph possesses no such relationships,
    it doesn't meet the definition of a set, and I believe that using the stylistic
    set features for this purpose is a hack response to the lack of a viable alternative
    feature and UI.\r\n\r\nThomas: <em>The new character variants are a fine thing
    in principle. The problem is they require significant UI to work at all, and this
    means they\u2019ll probably never be supported...</em>\r\n\r\nBut this is also
    true of any extension to the existing twenty stylistic set features (especially
    if one wants to take advantage of human-friendly name strings), and those have
    already been demonstrated to be insufficient for single character substitutions.
    Any advance on the present position will require significant UI, and this may
    well mean that it doesn't happen, or happens only slowly. But in that case why
    not spec it the right way? At least we'd be pretty much guaranteed that it will
    be supported in XeTeX. :)\r\n\r\n<em>yet we\u2019d be doing the best thing for
    ourselves in the short term by ignoring the feature in favor of stylistic sets.</em>\r\n\r\nFor
    those who want short-term and possibly partial support for character variants
    via the stylistic set features, there's nothing to stop them implementing substitutions
    in both those features and the new character variant features. It isn't an either/or
    situation.\r\n___\r\n\r\nOf course, another approach to this whole issue would
    be to start defining Variant Selector sequences for common character variant forms
    and propose them to Unicode. That solution would have the benefits of standardisation
    and interoperability."
  created: '2009-03-10 05:20:54'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "@guifa, who said: <cite>Actually, \u201C1 or 2\u201D in Spanish would be
    written \u201C1 \xF3 2\u201D and the accent is placed for precisely this reason.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes,
    I remembered that this morning. I agree with you, but not completely. As Jorge
    de Buen says in his <em>Manual de dise\xF1o editorial</em> (third edition), the
    accent would only be applied \u201CIn the strange case of a conjunction \u2018o\u2019
    in risk of being confused with a zero\u201D (p. 417). This would be certainly
    the case.\r\n\r\nBut, if there\u2019s no room for confusion (lining numbers, for
    example), the accent is pointless.\r\n\r\nAnyway, I think it is better for everyone
    to design a zero different from the letter o. Someday your font could find a lazy
    or ignorant editor or graphic designer. Or maybe simply someone that believes
    that there\u2019s no such confusion. Or a book that changes from lining numbers
    to oldstyle numbers in the next edition, &c.\r\n\r\nBut maybe we are a little
    far away from the main subject\u2026 A new thread?\r\n\r\n\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\r\n\r\nPS:
    Actually, the most common option for \u201C1 o 2\u201D is \u201Cuno o dos\u201D.
    ;-)"
  created: '2009-03-10 05:58:55'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "@John:\r\n\r\nI wrote: <cite>\"The new character variants are a fine thing
    in principle. The problem is they require significant UI to work at all, and this
    means they\u2019ll probably never be supported...\"</cite>\r\n\r\nYou replied:
    <cite>But this is also true of any extension to the existing twenty stylistic
    set features...</cite>\r\n\r\nNo, it is not \"significant UI work\" to extend
    an existing menu system to support X additional entries that work *exactly* like
    the existing entries. No need to consult a UI designer, and the programming can
    be done in minutes. That's the kind of thing that I would have expected to probably
    easily get into a new version of InDesign, when I was at Adobe.\r\n\r\n<cite>...(especially
    if one wants to take advantage of human-friendly name strings).</cite>\r\n\r\nThat
    part is true. Getting support for more stylistic sets (in apps that already support
    them) should be immeasurably easier than getting support for human-friendly names
    for those sets, or support for the character variants feature.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-03-10 08:42:22'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "John, \r\n\r\n> The set is a concept, the contents of which are \r\n> recognisable
    by their relationships. \r\n\r\nOh I see. But \"a\" and \"\xE1\" do have that
    relationship, so if I put the letter and its accented variants into one set, that
    must be fine, right? :)\r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2009-03-10 14:29:54'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "John: <cite>The set is a concept, the contents of which are recognisable
    by their relationships. Since a single glyph possesses no such relationships,
    it doesn\u2019t meet the definition of a set, and I believe that using the stylistic
    set features for this purpose is a hack response to the lack of a viable alternative
    feature and UI.</cite>\r\n\r\nThank you! Finally you nailed my problem perfectly!
    :=)\r\n\r\nConsidered all that has been said, I have taken my decision:\r\n\r\nMy
    two stylistic sets meet precisely John's definition. Since it's not a \"text typeface\"
    they even meet it more, as they are conceptual. So they are clearly \"Sets\".\r\nI
    think people may use the Stylistic Set workaround as they wish, until a \"pop-up\"
    function or a full support of [salt] will be available in UIs (as Karsten does),
    but I entirely agree it doesn't make sense to consider those \"Sets\", and that
    it's a potentially confusional method for unlearned type users.\r\n\r\nMy additional
    [t] (which is also part of ss02 but I wished it to be also a single alternative)
    will go into [salt], together with a few other variants (I have a [G.swsh01],
    for example), and I will not have a Stylistic Set for any of those.\r\n\r\nAdding
    all the features to [aalt] will make all the variant letters available in InDesign
    Glyphs palette.\r\n\r\nThat should meet Thomas' long-term condition:\r\nGetting
    apps to support the character variants feature, while pressuring the app/OS people
    by building fonts that use that feature...\r\n\r\n\r\nNow some questions:\r\n\r\n@John:
    What are precisely the \"new character variant features\" you talked about?\r\n\r\n@Adam:
    How could you possibly use \"human-readable names\" for the Sets if most applications
    will not show them? If I use FontLab to generate the typeface, is there a way
    to add those names?\r\n\r\n\r\nMany, many thanks to you all for the valuable information
    and for having helped me to clarify the nature of the problem, in my specific
    situation (\"display\" typefaces)."
  created: '2009-03-10 15:22:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Adam:<em>Oh I see. But \u201Ca\u201D and \u201C\xE1\u201D do have that relationship,
    so if I put the letter and its accented variants into one set, that must be fine,
    right?</em>\r\n\r\nNo, because <em>\xE1</em> is just <em>a</em> with a combining
    mark that has been ambiguously encoded for backwards compatibility reasons. So
    there!"
  created: '2009-03-10 18:50:41'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>What are precisely the \u201Cnew character variant features\u201D you
    talked about?</em>\r\n\r\nThese are currently being discussed by OT spec stakeholders.
    They have been proposed by Peter Constable at MS and folk from <a href=\"http://www.sil.org/\">SIL</a>."
  created: '2009-03-10 18:53:43'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "The status of character variants is that they are pretty much accepted for
    1.6. Who all will support them is another question, but I think the feature will
    almost certainly happen.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-03-10 23:52:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Thanks, Thomas. I missed the last round of OT 1.6 discussions, so wasn't
    sure on the status of these features.\r\n\r\nHeh: I just noticed the subject line
    of this discussion. Not such a simple question after all!"
  created: '2009-03-11 04:10:46'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "John: \r\n\r\nfirst you wrote: \r\n\r\n> The set is a concept, the contents
    of which are \r\n> recognisable by their relationships. \r\n\r\nthen you wrote:
    \r\n\r\n> No, because \xE1 is just a with a combining mark that has \r\n> been
    ambiguously encoded for backwards compatibility \r\n> reasons. So there!\r\n\r\nSo
    first you say a set are glyphs recognisable by their relationships. Then you say
    that \"a\" and \"\xE1\" are glyphs that are recognisable by their relationship,
    which is \"\xE1 is just a with a combining mark that has been ambiguously encoded
    for backwards compatibility reasons\" \u2014 to me that is a very recognisable
    relationship. But then you say, \"a\" and \"\xE1\" are not a set. \r\n\r\nI cannot
    follow. "
  created: '2009-03-13 14:35:21'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> If I use FontLab to generate the typeface, is there \r\n> a way to add
    those names?\r\n\r\nCertainly not if you use FontLab, as this is an ancient product
    (ceased to exist with version 4.6), and also not if you use FontLab Studio, as
    the current version 5.0.4 uses Adobe FDK for OpenType (AFDKO) version 1.6 to generate
    OpenType Layout features. Support for human-readable names for stylistic sets
    has been added to Adobe FDK for OpenType 2.5, which has been released only six
    weeks ago. AFDKO 2.5 will be integrated into FontLab Studio 6, and then you'll
    be able to add human-readable stylistic set names easily. \r\n\r\n> How could
    you possibly use \u201Chuman-readable names\u201D \r\n> for the Sets if most applications
    will not show them? \r\n\r\nThe same way people used Unicode in their fonts in
    1996 even though most applications did not support it. At some point, applications
    caught up. \r\n\r\nThere is a chain of things that need to happen: first, you
    need a certain functionality registered in the specification (which is the case
    now, with OpenType 1.6), then you need an development tool that allows you to
    add this functionality (AFDKO 2.5, which will be incorporated into FLS6), then
    you need some fonts that actually have this functionality included (the OpenType
    fonts that are yet to be developed), and finally you need some applications that
    expose that functionality (the developers of those apps need some fonts to test
    the functionality with, so they won't likely develop the functionality without
    any test fonts in place). \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam"
  created: '2009-03-13 14:46:44'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Hi Adam, thanks for the very clear explanation. For now I will keep my Set
    names as mere comment tags.\r\n\r\nI keep calling FontLab simply FontLab, since
    \"Studio\" evokes confusion in my mind, as it was my beloved FontStudio (from
    Ares/Letraset), the program I used before FontLab.\r\nYes, of course I'm using
    FontLab 5.0.4, and I can't wait for version 6. :=)\r\n\r\nOn the [a] issue: seriously,
    I can't understand what you don't understand: [a] and [\xE0] are not \"glyphs
    in a rleationship\", but the same glyph. The fact they use different Unicode values
    is probable to make them more easily accessible, but an accent or diacritic does
    not make a letter turn into another letter.\r\nThe relationship within Sets should
    be somehow intrinsecal, and defined by a principle, be it historical, experimental,
    cultural, or others. I agree it doesn't need to be a full-range substitution:
    even a few letters can result in enough context for a Set.\r\n\r\nA classic example
    could be the Italic Set Karsten embedded in Litteratra: here the Italic (which
    is, in fact, a style more used than others) is treated within the typeface instead
    of outside.\r\nSome people tend to prefer the opposite approach: OpenType or not,
    styles are considered better accessed as separate font files as it was previously,
    only with the benefit of Unicode full-range support.\r\n\r\nExamples of a more
    experimental nature could be the four Set variants Nick Shinn has included in
    Duffy, which they cover all the alphabetic range, and cultural examples may be
    what House Industries has done with a recent script family which addresses different
    styles of Latin lettering sourced from varied context of countries and cultural
    zones.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-13 15:42:48'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> [a] and [\xE0] are not \u201Cglyphs in a rleationship\u201D, \r\n> but
    the same glyph\r\n\r\nThis is the first time ever that I hear such a thing. \r\n\r\n>
    an accent or diacritic does not make a letter \r\n> turn into another letter.\r\n\r\nOh?
    That's news to me. Educate me. \r\n\r\nLet's take the letter <strong>n</strong>.
    \r\n\r\nNow let's take the following characters: \r\n\xF1 h \u0144 \u0237 m \u0272
    j \u014B \r\n\r\nWhich of those characters are \"the same letter as n\" and which
    are not, and why? \r\n\r\nAre the letters H and \u0124 the same letter? \r\nAre
    the letters H and \u0126 the same letter? \r\nAre the letters L and \u013D the
    same letter?\r\nAre the letters L and \u0141 the same letter? \r\nAre the letters
    E and F the same letter? \r\nAre the letters F and \u0191 the same letter? \r\n\r\n(Seriously.)\r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-13 17:06:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Adam, <em>a</em> and <em>\xE1</em> -- and <em>\xE0 \xE2 \xE3 \xE4 \xE5</em>
    etc. -- do not form a stylistic set because they are a single letterform with
    different marks. That they are also separate characters in Unicode and <em>may</em>
    be rendered using separate glyphs is simply a technical accident. In terms of
    the stylistic change it is a single substitution: this letterform <em>a</em> to
    a different form of the same letter.\r\n\r\n<em>Now let\u2019s take the following
    characters:\r\n\xF1 h \u0144 \u0237 m \u0272 j \u014B\r\nWhich of those characters
    are \u201Cthe same letter as n\u201D and which are not, and why?</em>\r\n\r\n\xF1
    \u0144 are the same letter\r\n\r\nh \u0237 m \u0272 j \u014B are different letters\r\n\r\nLet
    me put it this way: if the relationship between two letterforms is one of <em>identity</em>
    -- they are identical (not necessarily in the sense of having identical outlines,
    but of being clearly recognisable as the same form of the same letter) -- then
    a single stylistic substitution is being performed. If the relationship between
    two letterforms is that of difference but with some similar features and those
    features are changed in the same way by the substitution, then you have a set
    substitution."
  created: '2009-03-13 19:27:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Are the letters H and \u0124 the same letter?</em> Yes.\r\n<em>Are the
    letters H and \u0126 the same letter?</em> Probably.\r\n<em>Are the letters L
    and \u013D the same letter?</em> Yes.\r\n<em>Are the letters L and \u0141 the
    same letter?</em> Probably.\r\n<em>Are the letters E and F the same letter?</em>
    No.\r\n<em>Are the letters F and \u0191 the same letter?</em> Probably.\r\n\r\nWhere
    I have written yes, it is because the letterform-part of the diacritic is identical
    and therefore consistently follow the same stylistic variations.\r\n\r\nWhere
    I have written probably, it is because there is an identical relationship between
    this diacritic and a base letterform in most designs such that a stylistic variant
    in one would be consistently followed by the same variation in the other; however,
    in some designs this might not be the case due to idiomatic conventions.\r\n\r\nWhere
    I have written no, it is because there is never a case where these two are considered
    diacritic forms of the same letterform. They are different letters that share
    some features in common; hence they are logically put into a stylistic set if
    stylistic variation modifies these shared features in the same way.\r\n\r\n\r\nHere
    is another way to look at it:\r\n\r\nImagine all text is subject to Unicode normalisation
    form D (fully decomposed), and imagine that fonts only use GPOS mark positioning
    to display diacritic letters. You wouldn't have <em>a \xE0 \xE1 \xE2 \xE3 \xE4
    \xE5</em>: you would only have <em>a.</em> Hence, one can say that there is only
    a single substitution in stylistic variation of that letterform, not a stylistic
    set.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, if fully decomposed text still makes a distinction,
    as it obviously does, between <em>E</em> and <em>F</em>, then those are clearly
    separate letters that, if following the same stylistic variation belong in a set.\r\n\r\nThe
    diacritic letters that do not have canonical decompositions may or may not belong
    in sets. I argue that if the basic form of the letter is identical to that of
    another letterform, then they share in a single substitution and not a set substitution.
    So, for example, a stylistic variation affecting the o-shape in <em>o</em> and
    <em>\xF8</em> would be a single substitution, but a variation also affecting <em>\u0153</em>
    would be part of a stylistic set substitution.\r\n\r\nI don't claim this is the
    only way to look at this question, but insofar as the Stylistic Set features were
    intended not for changes to individual letterforms, this seems to me the best
    way to draw the distinction between what belongs in such sets and what should
    be in [salt] if that feature were adequately supported and what should be in the
    new character variant features when they are approved and, hopefully, supported.
    And we do need to have a basis for such distinctions if we are going to recommend
    any sensible use of these similar layout features."
  created: '2009-03-13 19:29:18'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "John, \r\n\r\nso n and \u0144 are \"the same letter\" in this context we
    are talking about. Are \u0237 and j the same letter? Are a and \u0105 the same
    letter? Are L and \u0141 and same letter? \r\n\r\nI guess it would be useful if
    we could work out some reliable terminology and distinctions in this realm, especially
    because the conceptual or \"ideal\" set-up is often not quite the same as the
    de-facto or technical set-up. The best example may be something like the ogonek:
    is \u0105 a base letter with a mark or is it a new letter? Technologically, there
    is no clear answer: some fonts provide an \u0105 as one solid outline, others
    as a composite glyph consisting of a and the ogonek, and yet others include a
    solid outline for \u0105 but in addition include OpenType GPOS mark attachment
    code for dynamic positioning of ogonek under any letter. \r\n\r\nSo is your criterion
    the spatial separation of ink? Is it the fact of touching or overlapping that
    constitutes identity? Is the glyph's identity a \"closed shape\"? \r\n\r\nIf \"\xE1\"
    is \"the same\" as \"a\", but \"\u0105\" is different from \"a\", what's with
    \"\xC5\" (where in some typefaces the ring is part of the letter and in others
    it is a mark)? What's with the semicolon? (Spatial separation of ink). \r\n\r\nIn
    other words: if we agree on a working term of <em>glyph identity</em> to separate
    it from the font-technological meaning of \"glyph\" and to denote this certain
    unique characteristics that makes one glyph differ inherently from another, I
    gather that your position is, a stylistic set can be formed only if there are
    two or more glyph identities involved. So now we need a clear agreement on what
    exactly this glyph identity is :) (And perhaps a different term.)\r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-13 19:37:00'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "John, \r\n\r\nup until 2006, the Swedish language considered V and W to be
    diacritic forms of the same letter. In Polish orthography, \u0104 is considered
    a diacritic form of A but \u0141 is not considered a diacritic form of L. "
  created: '2009-03-13 19:41:17'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> That they are also separate characters in Unicode and \r\n> may be rendered
    using separate glyphs is simply a technical \r\n> accident. \r\n(...)\r\n> Imagine
    all text is subject to Unicode normalisation \r\n> form D (fully decomposed),
    \r\n\r\nRight. So you say Unicode is \"technically accidental\" on some counts
    but should be used as an authority on others? That relativist approach does not
    quite work when at the same time you're trying to set some sort of <em>objective</em>
    standards such as \"The set is a concept, the contents of which are recognisable
    by their relationships.\" \r\n\r\nYou know that <em>I am</em> a relativist, or
    a subjectivist at the very least. But then of course I also say to type designers
    <em>\"do what you want with your stylistic sets\"</em> (because, indeed, they
    are <em>yours</em>). \r\n\r\nOf course, I, too, like objective standards, simply
    because we work in a service-oriented industry and our products (fonts) should
    meet some expectations. So I'd be interested in setting down some objective rules
    for this particular case. "
  created: '2009-03-13 19:49:54'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "<cite> a and \xE1 \u2014 and \xE0 \xE2 \xE3 \xE4 \xE5 etc. \u2014 do not
    form a stylistic set</cite>\r\n\r\nWhether their distinctiveness is \"accidental\"
    or not is completely irrelevant to me. IMO, if you want the same effect on all
    of them (which I'd think you normally would), then it would make plenty of sense
    to group them in a stylistic set.\r\n\r\nIf you were constructing those forms
    through combining marks, you'd get the functionality of changing them all at the
    same time. It should be practical to get the same effect without having to use
    combining marks....\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-03-14 01:23:09'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Adam, read what I wrote in response to your first set of \u2018is this the
    same letter as this?\u2019 questions. Also note that I used the term letterforms,
    since a letter is an orthographic concept: the same diacritic might be considered
    a letter in one alphabet but not in another. The term letterform clarifies that
    we're talking about shapes and the effect of variant substitutions on shapes.\r\n\r\nSo,
    once again: If the letterform-part of a diacritic is identical to the base letterform
    and to other diacritic forms of that letterform, and therefore consistently follows
    the same stylistic variation patterns, then the mapping of that letterform to
    a variant form is a single substitution, not a set substitution. Nowhere did I
    say that this was a matter of spatial separation of ink: it is a matter of whether
    there are corresponding letterforms and whether (see last paragraph below) the
    designer wants those corresponding letterforms to be affected in the same way
    by the substitution.\r\n\r\nRemember, I am making these points in light of the
    upcoming registration of one hundred new features for character variation, and
    trying to come up with a distinction that will guide developers in deciding what
    to include in those features and what to include in the stylistic set features.
    This is a separate issue from whether it is \u2018kosher\u2019 for someone to
    put <em>a \xE0 \xE1 \xE2 \xE3 \xE4 \xE5</em> into a stylistic set feature today.
    In the future, we are going to have distinct features for distinct purposes, and
    we need to determine what kind of substitutions belong with which features.\r\n\r\nLet's
    come at this from the other side of the future: let's suppose that the character
    variant features are registered, published and supported. Now, should the substitution
    that maps double-storey <em>a \xE0 \xE1 \xE2 \xE3 \xE4 \xE5</em> -- and also <em>\u0101
    \u0103 \u0105 \u01FB \u0201 \u0203 \u0227</em> and any precomposed-glyph representations
    of <em>a</em> plus combining mark -- to corresponding single-storey <em>a</em>
    variants but put into a character variant feature? Or into a stylistic set feature?
    Remember, the substitution only affects the <em>a</em> letterform (consider that
    we're dealing with a typeface like Helvetica in which the lowercase <em>g</em>
    is already single-storey, so there is no multi-letterform set to be formed, just
    this one lowercase character and its diacritic forms).\r\n\r\nIt seems completely
    obvious to me that this is a single character variant feature substitution, changing
    the appearance of a single letterform. And this is the only basis on which it
    is sensible to make the distinction between the purpose of the character variant
    features and that of the stylistic set features.\r\n\r\nNow, as Thomas indicates,
    what matters in the development of a specific font, is what the maker wants to
    happen when features are applied. And it is this desire that determines what letterforms
    and diacritics should be grouped within a single character variant feature. So
    your question about whether <em>a</em> and <em>\u0105</em> are the same letter
    is the wrong question: the right question is whether the font maker want <em>\u0105</em>
    to change in the same way as <em>a</em> when a particular character variant feature
    is applied. But what I think is obvious is that the choice is between whether
    to put both substitution in one character variant feature or in separate character
    variant features, and not whether the substitutions belong in stylistic set features.
    If the character variant features are to have a meaningful distinct purpose, then
    variations that only affect single letterforms must not be treated as stylistic
    set substitutions; otherwise, you will have a permanent grey-area between stylistic
    sets and character variants."
  created: '2009-03-14 04:36:36'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "<cite> Oh? That\u2019s news to me. Educate me.\r\n[\u2026]\r\n(Seriously.)</cite>\r\n\r\nSeriously?
    :)\r\n\r\nReading the definitions it seems to me that a letter modified by a diacritic
    may be treated either as a new, distinct letter or as a letter\u2013diacritic
    combination, so in the end it seems what really matters is the identity of a letter.\r\n\r\nAlthough
    I hardly understand the reason (for example) for which you should tread a letter
    with a modifier as accented in one language and as another letter in another.\r\nIf
    [\u0142] is not an [l] what sounds does it represent? Because if the sound is
    completely different, who called it \"lslash\", and why? And if the sound is l-based,
    it remains an [l], which has just a variation.\r\n\r\n<cite> That relativist approach
    does not quite work when at the same time you\u2019re trying to set some sort
    of objective standards such as \u201CThe set is a concept, the contents of which
    are recognisable by their relationships.\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\n\"Relativist approaches\"
    never work, but we do not hold \"absolute approaches\", and I simply can't understand
    your line of thought, that's all."
  created: '2009-03-14 16:24:16'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Claudio, \r\n\r\n\u201Clslash\u201D was a name given to the glyph by Adobe.
    An American company. Why? Because they needed to give some glyphs some names,
    for technological reasons. \r\n\r\n\"\u0142\" in Polish represents a sound that
    is pretty identical to the English \"w\", i.e. a labial consonant that sounds
    like a short \"u\" (not really very similar to \"l\"). I.e. the Polish \"lot\"
    sounds more-less like the English \"lot\" but the Polish \"\u0142ot\" sounds pretty
    much like the English \"what\". \r\n\r\nIt is futile to assume that letters have
    some universal similarity in regard to the sounds that they represent. \r\n\r\nIn
    Polish, the letter \"w\" stands for the same sound that in English is written
    \"v\", while the letter \"\u0142\" stands for the same sound that in English is
    written \"w\". In German, the letters \"w\" and \"v\" stand for the same sound
    but in English they represent two very different sounds. In German, the letter
    \"e\" represents some vowels of which some are similar to what this letter represents
    in English (e.g. in English \"error\") but is radically different from what it
    stands for in some other English words (e.g. \"erase\"). \r\n\r\nIn Polish and
    in German, the letter \"c\" represents a sound that in English can be written
    as \"ts\" or \"tz\", and in German as \"z\", while in English, the letter \"c\"
    represents sounds that in German or in Polish can be written using \"k\" or \"ss\"/\"\xDF\".
    In German, the letter \"s\" is mostly used to write a sound that in English and
    in Polish is written as \"z\". Etc. \r\n\r\nThe diacritic marks have been introduced
    in many languages (Romance, Germanic and Slavic) because the Latin alphabet had
    enough letters to represent the sounds found in the Latin language but was definitely
    not sufficient to represent all sounds found in those languages. \r\n\r\nOther
    alphabets used a different path. For example in Slavic languages using the Cyrillic
    script (e.g. Russian), the completely distinct and graphically unrelated letters
    \u0441, \u0448, \u0437, \u0436 represent sounds that in Slavic languages that
    use the Latin script are written using Latin letters with or without diacritic
    marks (in Czech respectively s, \u0161, z, \u017E) or digraphs (in Polish respectively
    s, sz, z, rz/\u017C), and other European languages use yet different letters to
    represent the same sounds (in French respectively, s, ch, z, j; in German respectively
    \xDF, sch, s, \u2014 and the last one does not have any representation at all).
    \r\n\r\nIn short, using phonetics as a means to make assumptions about relationships
    between letterforms is a dead end. \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-15 02:59:43'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Claudo...\r\n\r\nAdam... \r\n\r\nAll of which is a good demonstration of
    why I make a distinction between letterforms (shapes) and letters (phonetic signs)."
  created: '2009-03-15 03:23:36'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "<cite>Actually, \"1 or 2\" in Spanish would be written \"1 \xF3 2\" and the
    accent is placed for precisely this reason.</cite>\r\n\r\nReviving this old thread
    just to say that the Real Academia Espa\xF1ola recently announced that the accent
    between figures is not longer necessary, so now you are allowed to write \u201C11
    \xF3 12\u201D or \u201C11 o 12\u201D.\r\n\r\nMore info (in Spanish, sorry) [[http://www.elpais.com/articulo/cultura/i/griega/llamara/ye/elpepucul/20101105elpepucul_9/Tes|here.]]
    They are saying that this is because \u201Cthe computer has eliminated the danger
    of confusion between the letter o and the zero, which is bigger\u201D."
  created: '2010-11-05 15:13:16'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "\u2026So I guess they don\u2019t know about oldstyle figures."
  created: '2010-11-05 15:19:21'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "I missed this. Thanks to Christobal.\r\n\r\nSo an \"lslash\" is not an \"l\"
    at all?\r\n\r\nI would like to have the type awareness of John Hudson\u2026 :-("
  created: '2010-11-05 20:46:23'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "And \u017B is not Z\r\nIt is the last letter in our (Polish) alphabet and
    is always in indexes, phonebooks etc as the separate LETTER\r\n<------ see here
    ;-)"
  created: '2010-11-05 20:57:05'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "The fact that certain sounds in a language are written with an \"old letter\"
    that comes from the original Latin alphabet, or a \"newer letter\" of the Latin
    alphabet (K, W, Z), a newly-designed letter which does not resemble any of the
    existing ones, a digraph (two letters), or an \"old\" letter with some added graphical
    mark \u2014 this does not influence the fact whether that given graphical sign
    is a \"real letter\" or not. Those are all real letters, and they're equally important.
    \r\n\r\nEvery language uses a different set of letters. In a way, the difference
    between L and \u0141 is the same kind as the difference between E and F. Or between
    A and \xC4. Different letters, they just share some common graphical elements,
    and differ on others. \r\n\r\nThe naming of glyphs, or the naming of letters in
    the Unicode Standard is just a sketchy convention that allows us to communicate
    about the graphical forms, and is usually based on the English language. In Polish,
    nobody calls \u0141 a \"letter L with stroke\" or \"Lslash\" or whatever. People
    just call it \u0141 (in English, the name could be represented, in a simplified
    way, as \"ehw\" or \"ehoh\"). \r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-06 20:44:59'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "So, it should have been called \"Ehw\", or \"Ehoh\". A tranliteration is
    surely better than an \"Lslash\". I am bugged by this now that I know it\u2026\r\nYou
    said it was Adobe's choice, but when did the name was used? In Unicode it would
    have been nice to use more \"correct\" letter names."
  created: '2010-11-08 22:14:20'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "The Unicode consortium chose mainly descriptive names -- some \"same\" characters
    are called different in other languages. Actually, that goes for the 'regular'
    alphabet as well. What's a dubya? I call it a 'wee'.\r\n\r\n(\"Would a Wee by
    any other name smell as sweet?\" Nah... doesn't have the same ring.)"
  created: '2010-11-08 22:27:30'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> So, it should have been called \"Ehw\", or \"Ehoh\". A transliteration
    is surely \r\n> better than an \"Lslash\".\r\n\r\nNo, it isn't. The same character
    can be used in different languages and can be pronounced differently. \"Z\" describes
    a different sound for Polish and for German, and \"\xD3\" describes a very different
    sound for Spanish, Czech, and Polish. And what about \"\u017B\" and \"\u0179\"
    \u2014 in Polish, their pronunciation is quote close: clearly distinct to a Polish
    ear but often not distinguishable to foreigners. There are no effective ways to
    transliterate this. Letters are letters, graphical marks. We need language to
    describe them. But every description of a graphical mark is inadequate, just like
    every description of a sound is inadequate. Yet it's the best we can get in order
    to communicate using language. \r\n\r\nThis is how language works, fundamentally.
    \r\n\r\nThe glyph names were picked in very early PostScript days, decades ago.
    This also applies to many other glyphs, e.g.: \u201C (LEFT DOUBLE QUOTATION MARK,
    quotedblleft) might imply that this quotation mark is to be used on the left side
    of the quotation. But this is only true for English. In German, this mark is actually
    the closing quotation mark, to be used on the right side of the quotation. \r\n\r\nBoth
    PostScript glyph names and Unicode character names have a long history, and especially
    the earliest additions are full of inconsequences. Today, we should just take
    them as they are. Just DON'T assume that the inventors of these conventions were
    always right, and your life will be easier. Don't treat these names as something
    they aren't: full descriptions, of informations about the shape, or the use. Treat
    them just as names. \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-10 01:18:59'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Okay, but as a Polish person which name would you suggest for that letter?\r\nThat\u2019s
    what I am interested in. I don\u2019t think it makes sense to keep a description
    if it is inconsistent with other descriptions.\r\nAn \"Eth\" is not a \"Dhyphen\",
    so I expect an \"Ehw\" not to be an \"Lslash\".\r\nSure, there are things which
    have been named in some way, but this does not mean we could attain some consistency
    by asking people which actually have those letter as representative of sounds
    in their own language, right?"
  created: '2010-11-13 13:04:24'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>but this does not mean we could attain some consistency by asking people
    which actually have those letter as representative of sounds in their own language,
    right?</cite>\r\n\r\nIt's not a perfect world.\r\n\r\nA number of characters came
    to have meaning simply because they were available. Phoneticians, being fairly
    clever, didn't threaten to hold their breath until they turned blue unless type
    foundries made up new characters for them. They adapted what was available. It
    is understood those characters have a technical meaning to signal sounds.\r\n\r\nAlong
    come anthropologists and use those phonetic symbols (in written form) to represent
    sounds in languages that had no written form. They're already there, and the anthropologists
    want to publish, right?\r\n\r\nAlong come people proud of their ethnicity, who
    -- after the fact -- derive a written language.\r\n\r\nExample: L-slash is used
    in the written form for some Central American native languages. The written forms
    are late 20th century; the language is ancient.\r\n\r\nQuestion: What should Unicode
    call those characters? In other words, who should be offended? "
  created: '2010-11-13 14:10:39'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "@Piccic:\r\n\r\nI think 'Eth' represents a special case since AFAIK it only
    occurs in Icelandic and Faroese (as well as a number of Germanic languages which
    are no longer spoken), both of which refer to it by the same name. Lslash, on
    the other hand is not restricted to any single language or even language family;
    naming it Ew rather than Lslash might appeal to Poles but not to the Navajo (who
    would undoubtably prefer it be called <em> \u0142a </em> (pronounced similarly
    to <em> lla </em> while pretending to be Welsh).\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2010-11-13 15:25:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Those are all real letters, and they're equally important.\"\r\n\r\nWell
    said, Adam!"
  created: '2010-11-13 16:03:33'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>I think 'Eth' represents a special case since AFAIK it only occurs in
    Icelandic and Faroese (as well as a number of Germanic languages which are no
    longer spoken)</em>\r\n\r\nIn the \"no longer spoken\" category, one should include
    Old English..."
  created: '2010-11-13 16:51:39'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "In Old English, it also was called 'e\xF0' -- I'm unaware of any language
    which uses this character but which calls it by another name.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2010-11-13 17:06:43'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Charles mentioned phonology; and that's another area where Unicode chose
    to describe form, rather than function (at least in some cases).\r\n\r\nTake the
    phoneme '\u0254'. Its phonological name is \"open o\", and, as it happens, Unicode
    also calls it that. But another one, the phoneme '\u028C', is a variant of 'a'
    and goes by the ungainly name of \"open mid-back unrounded vowel\". Unicode calls
    this one a \"small letter turned v\", although it has nothing to do <em>at all</em>
    with the letter 'v' -- its shape has been derived from a small caps 'A' without
    the crossbar.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nTheoretically, it's <em>possible</em> to assign
    a couple of different names to each of the Unicode characters. But I think they
    are trying to avoid that, so the confusion of 'what name describes what character'
    doesn't get any more complicated than it already is."
  created: '2010-11-13 17:37:29'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "Theunis de Jong writes:\r\n\r\n<cite> Take the phoneme '\u0254'. Its phonological
    name is \"open o\", and, as it happens, Unicode also calls it that. But another
    one, the phoneme '\u028C', is a variant of 'a' and goes by the ungainly name of
    \"open mid-back unrounded vowel\". Unicode calls this one a \"small letter turned
    v\", although it has nothing to do at all with the letter 'v' -- its shape has
    been derived from a small caps 'A' without the crossbar. </cite>\r\n\r\n'Open
    mid-back unrounded vowel' is a phonetic <em> description </em> of the vowel, but
    I wouldn't consider that to be its <em> name </em> (the usage I'm most familiar
    with is simply to call it 'wedge'). Calling it 'turned v', though is rather accurate
    insofar as that is how it was commonly produced in metal. I don't think that there
    is any standardised set of names for IPA characters (Pullum and Ladusaw would
    likely be the closest thing to a standard, but many of the names they use don't
    reflect colloquial usage among linguists and, like the names adopted by the U.C.,
    tend to be graphic descriptions -- the one which always gets me is 'turned f'
    to describe [\u025F])."
  created: '2010-11-13 17:51:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>In the \"no longer spoken\" category, one should include Old English...</em>\r\n\r\n\"I
    don't think I have ever told you what an unforgettable experience it was for me
    as an undergraduate, hearing you recite Beowulf. The voice was the voice of Gandalf.\"
    -- W.H. Auden, in a letter to J.R.R. Tolkein.\r\n\r\nSurely subsequent professors
    of Anglo-Saxon have picked up the torch?"
  created: '2010-11-14 03:00:05'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "Thanks all for excellent info!\r\nThis is my attempt to resolve OSF problems
    with stylistic sets:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/osf_modern_5604.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/OSF_classic_5503.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/roman_num_4519.png]\r\n[vide:
    http://typophile.com/node/73413 ]\r\nss01 substitutes [one] by [one UC I like:
    \\one.osf.alt]\r\n\r\nlookup ss01StyleSet1lookup6 {\r\n  lookupflag 0;\r\n    sub
    \\zero by \\zero.osf ;\r\n    sub \\one by \\one.osf.alt ;\r\n    sub \\two by
    \\two.osf ;\r\n    .....\r\n    sub \\nine by \\nine.osf ;\r\n} ss01StyleSet1lookup6;\r\n\r\nhope
    it works..."
  created: '2010-11-16 10:44:57'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Janek, \r\n\r\nthe problem with your code is that when a user activates \"onum\"
    and \"ss01\", he'll get the default oldstyle figures, not the alternates, which
    I guess is not what the user would expect. I'd suggest moving the \"ss01\" feature
    definition before \"onum\". \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2010-11-17 13:41:51'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Also, on an unrelated note, I'd recommend: \r\n(1) Using proper codepoints
    (U+2160 \u2014 U+216F) and glyph names (uni2160 \u2014 uni216F) for the Roman
    numerals. For the CC glyph, that would be \"uni216D216D\" or \"uni216D_uni216D\".
    \r\n(2) Designing the Roman numerals a bit like small capitals: somewhat smaller
    than the full capitals, and with some more letterspacing. "
  created: '2010-11-17 13:46:33'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Hi Adam,\r\nwhat3s the problem in using personalized glyph names, as you
    respect the Unicode values of a glyph?\r\n\r\nAnyway, I still think it doesn\u2019t
    make sense to have some letters named according to a criteria, and some others
    to other criteria, in the same system, which is Unicode. Of course, \u201Cperfection\u201D
    may be deceiving, but in the case of the \"slashed l\" the Navajo use is an adoption
    for transcribing an existing oral language, so it\u2018s not what I asked about.
    The name, in this case, is OK as it was previously defined, since we use a graphic
    sign which already existed for a Polish alphabet letter."
  created: '2010-11-17 14:10:31'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Piccic, \r\n\r\nThe rationale is given here: \r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/2994#comment-23796\r\n\r\nWith
    some additional explanations here: \r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/29469#comment-404691\r\n\r\nGlyphnames
    have been part of PostScript since 1982, long before Unicode was conceived (around
    1991). This is why there is a set of glyphnames that have \"mnemonic\" glyphnames
    such as \"A\", \"asterisk\" or \"zero\". The \"uniXXXX\" convention has been introduced
    in OpenType (1999) after Unicode has become a dominant standard for text and font
    encoding because it did not make sense to come up with mnemonic glyphnames for
    all Unicode characters. \r\n\r\nIf Unicode existed before PostScript, there would
    have probably been no glyphnames, Unicode codepoints would be the only identifier.
    Which would then introduce other problems, such as the inability to include multiple
    alternate glyphs for one Unicode character. \r\n\r\nYou're free to engage into
    an academic debate about an ideal glyph identification scheme. Such exercises
    have been done in the past (e.g. Apple's \"Zapf\" TrueType table), but have not
    been widely adopted. There is nothing academic about PostScript, Unicode, OpenType,
    glyph naming or character naming. All these things come from a fairly long technological
    evolution, and carry a lot of evolutionary weight. \r\n\r\nAdmittedly, the PDF-compatible
    glyph naming scheme may be one of (many) font technology's coccyxes. I think that
    it does not make much sense to debate whether it is necessary, we should just
    acknowledge that it's there and move on. \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-17 14:46:04'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "Cze\u015B\u0107 Adam,\r\nThanks! Done: Roman.num - first, OSF with ordinary
    'one' - second and OSF with oldschool 'one' - third. (dzi\u0119ki za pomoc, jak
    widz\u0119 zawsze mo\u017Cna na Ciebie liczy\u0107 :)\r\nYours sincerely\r\nJ"
  created: '2010-11-17 18:04:01'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: 'errata: Roman.num - first, OSF with oldschool ''one'' - second and OSF with
    ordinary ''one'' - third.'
  created: '2010-11-17 22:18:34'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Hi Adam,\r\nisn't it better to have glyph names? If they are just for commodity,
    and the software addresses the unicode values, I can\u2019t see why \u2013 for
    example \u2013 in Arabic or Hebrew I should get mad to remind each unicode value
    whenever I have to design a glyph.\r\n\r\nI understand most of these things came
    out of a situational layered history of technologies, but this does not mean we
    are forced to stick with that.\r\nFor example, what does it happen if I change
    just the name (within the font design software) of Hebrew glyphs?\r\n\r\nI cannot
    engage in any academic debate, I have no background. I just try to figure out
    if I can make things more recognizable. I\u2019m not a technician, although I
    attended a technical school, but as you say, every field contributed to this evolution;
    my questions are just for personal consistency, and possibly clarity, when I work."
  created: '2010-11-19 22:07:39'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I take it you didn't actually read the threads in question?\r\n\r\nIf you
    change the glyph names to completely non-standard ones, in some situations people
    making PDFs from your font will end up with the underlying text in the PDF being
    trashed: broken for search, broken for copy/paste into another doc, etc. It will
    look fine as long as the font is embedded, but won't be usable otherwise.\r\n\r\nIf
    you don't care about that, then go right ahead.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-11-30 02:44:48'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: 'On top of what Thomas has written, I should add that in older versions of
    Mac OS X (10.4 and I believe even 10.5), if you don''t have PDF-compatible glyphnames
    in OpenType PS (.otf) fonts, some glyphs may not even display in applications
    such as TextEdit, Keynote or Pages. (This is because the font renderer in those
    OSes used glyphnames rather than the font''s "cmap" table to map Unicode codepoints
    to glyphs. This has been resolved in Mac OS X 10.6). '
  created: '2010-12-01 02:54:40'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Thanks, Adam.\r\n\r\nI'd almost forgotten about that odd Apple decision.
    I never did understand it. The relevant folks at Apple originally claimed that
    glyph names were more reliable than cmaps, for determining encoding in OpenType
    CFF fonts. I found that hard to believe. I long wondered if for some reason to
    do with code paths, it was easier for them to treat OpenType CFF the same as Type
    1, and of course Type 1 fonts had no encoding cmap in the font. Anyway, I'm glad
    they stopped doing that.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-12-01 07:47:02'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Thanks, but all this does not change that glyph naming is a total inconsistency.\r\nI
    guess the only way to have them descriptive is to change them, and then change
    them back to numeric values before generating the typeface. Bah."
  created: '2010-12-02 14:11:38'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "That's a fairly common strategy -- if you are using AFDKO tools are providing
    for doing this using a GlyphOrderAndAliasDB file. \r\n\r\nWithin FontLab, you
    can also edit your standard.nam file to include your preferred names prefixed
    with an exclamation mark. FontLab will then correctly assign unicode values based
    on those names but, when asked to generate names from unicode values will use
    the more standard ones. Unfortunately, this solution isn't really viable if you
    are using lots of alternate glyphs since it will only rename glyphs which are
    mapped to unicode values.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2010-12-02 14:55:27'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "Adam: <em>[...] I believe even 10.5</em>\r\n\r\nFrom: <a href=\"http://www.fonttools.org/downloads/TD_2009/OpenType_Status_2009.pdf\">OpenType
    Status 2009</a>:\r\n\r\nIn OS X 10.3, 10.4: Carbonized applications acces codepages
    via internal mappings. This doesn\u2018t work always correctly.\r\n\r\nFor COCOA/AAT
    the Unicode number was recalculated from the Postscript glyph name, although these
    fonts have a Unicode Cmap!?!\r\n\r\nName problems: Gcedilla \u2013 Gcommaccent
    Greek fonts : mu, Delta, sigma1, Omega Encoding problems with CFF custom encoding.\r\n\r\nIn
    OS X 10.5 and 10.6 Apple introduced Core Text and replaced the older text API\u2018s.\r\nThe
    problems have been fixed. (A good reason to upgrade!)\r\n\r\n\r\nFEB"
  created: '2010-12-02 19:42:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"(A good reason to upgrade!)\"\r\n\r\nExcept if you still have a pre-Intell
    Mac :-)"
  created: '2010-12-03 01:22:15'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: 10.5 works on pre-Intel Macs. You lose Classic, though. 10.6 is the only one
    that's Intel-only.
  created: '2010-12-03 02:25:09'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "I'd say that if \"gcommaaccent\" only works on Mac OS X 10.5 and 10.6, while
    \"uni0123\" works in all Mac OSes dating from 10.3 or probably earlier, there
    is no reason to ship \"gcommaaccent\". \r\n\r\nThe current STANDARD.NAM and all
    the encodings that ship with *Fontographer 5* follow the updated naming guidelines,
    so \"gcommaaccent\" will be changed to \"uni0123\" if you choose \"Make PDF-compatible
    naming\" in FOG, and -- if you install Fontographer 5 on the same machine as FontLab
    Studio 5 -- will also work when you choose \"Generate Names\" from Glyph / Glyph
    Names in FLS5. \r\n\r\nAs I wrote earlier, I recommend installing Fontographer
    5 demo if you're using FontLab Studio 5. You'll get updated glyphname-to-Unicode
    lists and encoding files as well as a set of new \"OpenType\" encodings (\"OpenType
    Std\", \"OpenType LatPro\", \"OpenType LatPro SC\", \"OpenType LatCyrGrk\", \"OpenType
    LatCyrGrk SC\", \"OpenType LatCyrGrk WGL4\" and \"OpenType LatCyr Asia\"). \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2010-12-03 03:06:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I recommend installing Fontographer 5 demo if you're using FontLab Studio
    5\"\r\n\r\nOK, but this sounds quite strange, Adam.  Can't we just get a copy
    of the revised standard.nam file?"
  created: '2010-12-03 03:59:30'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "I've made those available here: \r\nhttp://www.fontlab.net/downloads/FontLabDataFiles2010.zip\r\nbut
    this location is not official/permanent (since this ZIP does not come with a nice
    installer etc.) But it's the same files as those bundles with FOG 5. \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam"
  created: '2010-12-03 04:32:06'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "Frank,\r\n\r\nI was hoping you could clarify something from the .pdf you
    linked to (I realise you weren't the author, but perhaps you know the answer since
    I assume you were involved in the conference).\r\n\r\nThe file states \"Always
    use the available Unicode [value] even if the glyphs are selected through an OpenType
    feature\".\r\n\r\nI'm interpreting this to mean that in a substitution such as\r\n\r\n<code>feature
    hist {</code>\r\n\r\n<code>\_\_sub s' @Letters by s.hist; # s.hist = long s</code>\r\n\r\n<code>}
    hist;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>s.hist</code> should be encoded as U017F. Am I interpreting
    this correctly? The impression I had received from reading other discussions on
    this forum was that <code>s.hist</code> should be left unencoded and and that
    a separate (duplicate) glyph, <code>uni017F</code> should be encoded at U017F.\r\n\r\nDo
    you know the rationale behind Dr. Willrodt's recommendation?\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2010-12-03 15:29:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "@Adam \"But it's the same files as those bundles with FOG 5\"\r\n\r\nDoes
    that mean that FontLab Studio 5 will recognize and accept the same .nam files
    as FOG5? or do I need to edit the file at all?"
  created: '2010-12-03 16:18:47'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "@Chris,\r\n\r\nYes, the .nam file is the same for both. No editing needed.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2010-12-03 16:40:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Andr\xE9!"
  created: '2010-12-03 16:46:04'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Chris, \r\n\r\nyes, one of the things we changed in FOG5 is to drop its old
    encoding formats and switch to FontLab's formats (.nam and .enc, not .cpg, but
    also vendor.dat, though no alias.dat yet). \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2010-12-03 18:21:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Great!, Thanks Adam! Now I can just grab it from my FOG5 folder!\r\nBut?
    What effect, if any, will it have on my old legacy files already done using the
    old NAM file?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2010-12-03 19:15:25'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Chris, \r\n\r\nyou don't have to grab anything. If you install FOG 5, the
    files will automatically become available in FLS 5. The files reside in the same
    shared folder. If you open any VFBs, the new .nam files will only have an effect
    if you choose Generate Unicode or Generate Names. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2010-12-04 05:04:05'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "Andr\xE9: <em>[...] I assume you were involved in the conference [....]</em>\r\n\r\nAll
    FM conferences so far were organized by DTL, so I was indeed involved in the conference
    at The Hague. \r\n\r\n<em>sub s' @Letters by s.hist; # s.hist = long s</em>\r\n\r\nTo
    be honest, I have not seen the other discussion in question, but I can imagine
    the preservation of the Unicode value of the s for exchangebility reasons (there
    was also a discussion on the \u2018hist\u2019 feature and related ligature stuff
    on the ATypI list recently, but I did not find time to look at it yet). Glyph
    variants like <em>s.hist</em> should be left unencoded by definition, of course
    (otherwise the use of <em>s.hist</em> here instead of <em>longs</em> would not
    make sense either).\r\n\r\nAt the conference J\xFCrgen (Dr. Willrodt) did not
    discuss this topic specifically. You can watch his talk at <a href=\"http://river-valley.tv/opentype-status-2009/\">River
    Valley TV</a> (around the 20th minute the PDF page in question shows up). I will
    forward your question to him, by the way.\r\n\r\nAs Adam pointed out, using \u2018uniXXXX\u2019
    entries instead of \u2018AGLFN\u2019 names can prevent problems under older Mac
    OSes. My problem is that working on the features files, character layout files
    and kerning pairs is not easy with the non-descriptive \u2018uniXXXX\u2019 naming,
    so I made simple AppleScript files that translate (in BBEdit) the entries in forenamed
    files from \u2018AGLFN\u2019 to \u2018uniXXXX\u2019 naming and vice-versa.\r\n\r\nFEB\r\n"
  created: '2010-12-04 10:04:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks, Adam!!!\r\n\r\n@blokland: That is a great idea, Frank! I have been
    using an Excel file I made with columns for each class being substituted along
    with an extra column which has the descriptive name.  I can check row by row for
    compatibility and use line count to ensure equal entries but your way is WAY better!"
  created: '2010-12-04 13:13:33'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "I've just come up with a workaround how to rename glyphs (e.g. through Generate
    Names) including making the changes inside of the OpenType features definitions,
    completely within FontLab Studio 5, without using any scripts. It's not a superbly
    polished solution, but it works well. \r\n\r\n1. In Preferences / Opening OpenType
    & TrueType, enable \"Store binary OpenType layout tables\". \r\n2. Generate the
    .vfb font as .otf or .ttf. \r\n3. In the .vfb font file, choose Glyph / Glyph
    Names / Generate Names. \r\n4. Open the newly-generated .otf, and there, choose
    Glyph / Glyph Names / Generate Names. \r\n5. Generate the newly-opened .otf again
    as .otf, and in the dialog box that appears, choose \"Binary\". \r\n6. Close this
    font and open it again: note that in the OpenType panel and in the Classes panel,
    the data now uses the new glyph names.  \r\n7. Save the features into a file from
    the OpenType panel, and save the classes into a file from the Classes panel. \r\n8.
    Close this font and go back to the original .vfb file. \r\n9. Open the newly saved
    classes and features using the Classes panel and the OpenType panel. \r\n\r\nThis
    way, you'll have the classes and the OpenType feature definitions that use the
    new glyph names. \r\n\r\nIt's not very elegant but it works. \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2010-12-04 20:15:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Bless you, my son!
  created: '2010-12-04 21:29:26'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "Thanks for your reply,\r\n\r\nI was unable to locate the thread in question.
    It didn't specifically have to do with historical forms but something similar.
    IIRC it involved a use of the 'sups' feature which mapped one to onesuperior rather
    than mapping one to one.sups.\r\n\r\nThe discussion in the handout you posted,
    though, seemed to suggest it was appropriate to map s to (encoded) longs rather
    than (unencoded) s.hist (sorry if the naming error in my earlier post caused confusion).\r\n\r\nIt
    seems that having GSUB lookups which convert characters to other characters rather
    than simply mapping from glyphs to glyphs is frowned on by many. However, while
    while poking around on Adobe's site I found the following in the description of
    the 'mgrk' feature:\r\n\r\n<cite> Example: The user applies this feature to U+03A3
    (Sigma), and gets U+2211 (summation). </cite>\r\n\r\nWhich would seem to suggest
    that this isn't strictly forbidden.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2010-12-08 14:41:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"U+03A3 (Sigma), and gets U+2211 (summation).\"\r\n\r\nIf you name the glyphs
    as you stated and the unicoode values properly for each, how could that happen?
    \ I assume you would put both glyphs in the font.  I do this (include both) for
    some other Greek, Omega, and the math version as well"
  created: '2010-12-08 15:14:06'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "I've never used this feature, but the description suggests you'd simply have
    the following:\r\n\r\n<code> feature mgrk { # Math Greek</code>\r\n\r\n<code>\_\_\_\_sub
    Sigma by summation;</code>\r\n<code>\_\_\_\_sub Pi by product;</code>\r\n\_\_\_\_\r\n<code>\_\_\_\_#
    etc.</code>\r\n\r\n<code>} mgrk;</code>\r\n\r\nThe description suggests that Adobe
    is advocating the above rather than\r\n\r\n<code>feature mgrk { # Math Greek</code>\r\n\r\n<code>\_\_\_\_sub
    Sigma by Sigma.mgrk;</code>\r\n<code>\_\_\_\_sub Pi by Pi.mgrk;</code>\r\n\_\_\_\_\r\n<code>\_\_\_\_#
    etc.</code>\r\n\r\n<code>} mgrk;</code>\r\n\r\nwhich would seem to contradict
    the view that GSUB rules should only perform glyph substitution and never character
    substitution.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2010-12-08 15:20:12'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "\"mgrk\" is one of the OpenType features that are in the spec, but are discouraged
    from being used. They are not actually being used in any Adobe fonts made in the
    last yen years. I think the feature should be removed (similarly to what was done
    to \"dpng\" some years ago). \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2010-12-08 17:02:26'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "As Adam says, 'mgrk' is deprecated, much like 'crcy' and 'dpng', precisely
    because it does seem likely to be used to enact what ought to be done by a change
    in codepoint.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-12-11 01:39:10'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "From the documentation on the ss tags, ss03, for example, can remap characters
    in ss01 and ss02 as well as from the default set. So ss20 has the highest priority,
    then ss19, and so on.\r\n\r\nSo one could have lining figures as the default,
    regular oldstyle figures as ss01, and an alternate short 1 that looks like a lining
    1 instead of a small-cap I in ss02.\r\n\r\nThe problem is now \"solved\" except
    for applications in which there is no way to enable or disable any of these features.
    I would recommend font designers to make all their glyphs available as just plain
    characters in the Private Use area in addition to having the fancy processing
    for normal characters."
  created: '2010-12-11 02:54:23'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> so ss20 has the highest priority, then ss19, and so on.\r\n\r\nQuadibloc,
    \r\n\r\nYou're wrong. The priority between different user-controlled OpenType
    Layout features is determined by the order of the lookups in the font. In one
    font, you can have \"liga\" to have higher priority than \"smcp\", and \"ss01\"
    have a higher priority than \"ss20\", and in another font this can be exactly
    the other way around. If features use multiple lookups, then those can interweave:
    one lookup from the \"ss01\" feature is processed, then a lookup from \"ss20\",
    then again one from \"ss01\". \r\n\r\nThere is no \"canonical order\" for any
    of the user-controllable features in the OpenType spec. It is the font developer
    who decides on the priorities within a font. The rule is, that some features (ccmp,
    locl) are applied before the script shaping, then the script shaping features
    are applied (this is done differently for each script, and each script shaping
    engine automatically picks the appropriate features), and then finally, the user-controllable
    features enabled by the user are applied in the order of the lookups defined in
    the font. "
  created: '2010-12-12 01:00:50'
date: '2009-03-06 19:08:14'
node_type: forum
title: A (very) simple question about OpenType Stylistic Sets

---
