---
author:
  name: arielm
body: "This experiment shows some text placed on a rotating helix. If you start to
  read from the top, your eye will follow the text and without paying attention, you
  will reach the bottom of the helix.\r\n\r\n[[http://chronotext.org/lab/Babel.jnlp]]\r\n\r\nRequirements:
  Java (and the Georgia font) installed. The first time will be longer to load and
  at some point you'll have to \"trust\" Sun MicroSystems...\r\n\r\nIntructions: either
  watch and do nothing or drag your mouse horizontally to control spin. (You can try
  to double-click while saying amen as well...)\r\n\r\nThis is a follow-up to [[http://typophile.com/node/55496|this
  thread]] where some very categorical statement have been made regarding text in
  motion.\r\n\r\nYes, I think that this experiment is raising some interesting questions
  in the domains of art, design and information visualization. No, I don't think that
  some clear lines exist between the 3 mentioned domains.\r\n\r\nIs it possible to
  have a constructive discussion here, with mutual respect and doors left open?\r\n\r\nAriel\r\n[[http://chronotext.org]]"
comments:
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"art, design and information visualization\"</em>\r\n\r\nI'm thinking
    if you want to reap meaningful and fruitful feed-back, it is still crucial for
    you to define exactly what it is you want this, primarily, to be/become. An art
    installation? A toy? Or a <em>tool</em>?\r\nMaking this decision will influence
    how successful your \"experiment\" is / will be seen to be &ndash; what it will
    be judged as, and against. You say the lines between these fields are blurred;
    but I think at the very least, you need to prioritize your goals.\r\n\r\nThe following
    remarks are coming from a design/usability perspective.\r\n\r\n<em>\"If you start
    to read from the top, your eye will follow the text and without paying attention,
    you will reach the bottom of the helix.\"</em>\r\n\r\n1) It does look cool to
    me from an abstract, graphic design perspective. But this being text, my eyes
    want to read it.\r\n\r\n2) Immediately knowing where to start reading is not super-intuitive.
    That might seem stupid, but yes my eyes were confused for a moment.\r\n\r\n3)
    My eye must work differently from yours because (a) I get dizzy real quick when
    trying to focus on the text, which is not very pleasant, and (b) there is a hell
    of a lot of distraction / visual interference going on, which is annoying for
    the process of reading. I don't like having stuff move around in my field of vision
    when I'm trying to read, especially not high contrast stuff, and especially not
    other text.\r\n\r\n4) I think the controls need work. I got frustrated after exactly
    6 seconds. How can I revert back after having double-clicked? I ended up restarting
    the application. Having no visible UI makes it even more of an \"experiment\",
    and definitely not a tool.\r\n\r\nI maintain my previous impression that it's
    fun in terms of being an artsy experiment, rather than something primarily meant
    to be *usable*. \r\nIf it's your goal to make funky art, that's fine, have fun,
    go wild. But then don't call it \"design\" and \"information visualization\" if
    you're not prepared to get involved in what it takes to make \"design\" and \"information
    visualization\" <em>successful</em> (which isn't the same as \"pretty\"). When
    you start arguing in these terms, do not be surprised when your work is measured
    by them; and at least in my view, in the <em>design</em> game, you can't escape
    the usability/usefulness/readability discussion by calling up your grand artistic
    vision, or generally discarding the judiciousness of those who put up well-grounded
    arguments against the same."
  created: '2009-03-10 13:11:56'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Pretty much agree with Altaira. \r\n\r\nIt's fun to look at, but hell to
    read. I actually started to feel a bit queasy after a while (my eyes get easily
    tired). I lost the row and the text at the back confused matters even more, so
    I never made it to the end.\r\n\r\nI might be a bit old fashioned, but if the
    text is meant to be read I expect it to be relatively easy to read. There are
    exceptions, of course, but any text longer than a few words should be clear."
  created: '2009-03-10 13:34:34'
- author:
    name: arielm
  body: "Altaira, you're extremely serious (I'm adapting myself :-)\r\nSo first, Thanks
    for the previous feedback!\r\n\r\n>I\u2019m thinking if you want to reap meaningful
    and fruitful feed-back, it is\r\n>still crucial for you to define exactly what
    it is you want this, primarily,\r\n>to be/become. An art installation? A toy?
    Or a tool?\r\n\r\nIt started as a [[http://chronotext.org/bits/029|processing
    experiment in the wild]] more than 5 years ago. Then it was featured in a [[http://chronotext.org/scriptorium|commissioned
    work of art]] which is permanently exhibited side-by-side with the Dead Sea Scrolls
    in Jerusalem. Then it was reincarnated as a sketch for creating buzz around potential
    [[http://vimeo.com/3350149|iPhone toys]].\r\n\r\n>but I think at the very least,
    you need to prioritize your goals.\r\n\r\nIn parallel, I always dream of finding
    some more practical applications for the principle of \"helicoidal text\".\r\n\r\n>If
    it\u2019s your goal to make funky art, that\u2019s fine, have fun, go wild. But\r\n>then
    don\u2019t call it \u201Cdesign\u201D and \u201Cinformation visualization\u201D
    if you\u2019re not\r\n>prepared to get involved in what it takes to make \u201Cdesign\u201D
    and \u201Cinformation >visualization\u201D successful\r\n\r\nFor the purpose of
    reaching *usability*, I'm aware that I need to initiate a dialogue with actors
    from the various fields of design (interaction design, information visualization...)\r\n\r\nIf
    most of the feedback will be negative, if no one finds any seed of interest, nothing
    worth working on \"another round\" (we're talking about \"iterative design\"):
    then it's just fine with me.\r\n\r\nAs for the feedback received here up to this
    point:\r\n\r\n- I agree that the \"where to start reading\" point needs care.\r\n\r\n-
    Distraction / visual interference: right again, could be enhanced.\r\n\r\n- Dizziness:
    definitely, but that's a side-effect inherent to spirals (the principle of hypnotism...)
    Actually, I can see it as an advantage for reading metaphysical content. Maybe
    not a coincidence if Buddhist sacred texts are placed on spinable cylinders.\r\n\r\n-
    Controls need work: right (quick and dirty work as for now...)\r\n\r\nThe verdict
    is not that bad actually (room for another work iteration sometimes...)\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-10 16:40:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> without paying attention, you will reach the bottom of the helix.\r\n\r\nIndeed.
    But if you try to pay attention, you won't.  :-/\r\n\r\nIt's fun for a few seconds,
    but that can't be enough reason. Don't you realize when you're reading it how
    slow -and hence annoying and uncomfrotable- it is? If you're not annoyed it's
    probably only because you made it yourself... People don't like going slow for
    no reason - they want the <em>content</em>, pronto. It's tedious because reading
    is very dynamic and \"interactive\" - for one thing it's not a smooth motion;
    plus it varies among people, especially with respect to age. Please check out
    this page for just a faint idea of strange reading is: http://themicrofoundry.com/ss_read1.html\r\n\r\nI'm
    really trying to be serious and constructive when I say that you can't subvert
    human nature to your artistic desires. Categorical? Saying humans can't digest
    tree bark is categorical too but if it prevents a restaurant from serving it that's
    a good thing.\r\n\r\nMake all the art you want, but it's not healthy to pretend
    it's highly <em>useful</em> to many people. Now, if it turns you on, you should
    definitely keep doing stuff like this (and even showing it on Typophile if you
    like) but you should leave it to others to analyze/compliment the results, and
    don't expect everybody to cheer. Otherwise you won't get any useful feedback,
    and thus will not improve yourself and your work.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nYou want to
    improve reading by using a dynamic interface? Try this, which I thought up many
    years ago: track the reader's focus, and make the word he's looking directly at
    sans serif with a large x-height, and the words to the right increasingly larger
    and with longer serifs and smaller x-height. And every time the reader saccades,
    the display changes. At first a reader will have trouble, but my guess is that
    the brain will quickly learn the trick, and you'll double reading speed, by doubling
    the average saccade distance. Sort of like using an atlatl.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-10 19:39:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I always dream of finding some more practical\r\n> applications for the
    principle of \u201Chelicoidal text\u201D.\r\n\r\nWhy?\r\n\r\nWhat are <em>other
    people</em> dreaming of?\r\n\r\nBTW, I'm curious about something: how old were
    you where you started learning to read text set in the Latin script (presumably
    English)? I suspect it was at a young age, but I want to check. And how much English
    do you read regularly? On-screen or in print?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-10 19:49:04'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>Saying humans can\u2019t digest tree bark is categorical too but if it
    prevents a restaurant from serving it that\u2019s a good thing.</em>\r\n\r\nSomebody
    stop [[http://www.balloonbuffoon.com/images/Cinnabon1.jpg|these people]]! ;-)\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-10 20:36:38'
- author:
    name: arielm
  body: ">BTW, I\u2019m curious about something: how old were you where you started\r\n>learning
    to read text set in the Latin script (presumably English)?\r\n>I suspect it was
    at a young age, but I want to check.\r\n\r\nLol, I'm french, so I started to read
    in the Langue de Moli\xE8re around 6 (note that my teacher in first grade was
    from Cameroun, even tough it was in Bagnolet, a suburb of Paris...)\r\n\r\n>And
    how much English do you read regularly? On-screen or in print?\r\n\r\nEndless
    quantities of english, hebrew and french. Left to right. Right to left. On screen,
    on books and magazines, on comics, on mysterious Bible codices, on 2000 year-old
    parchment rolls and even on fragments of broken pottery.\r\n\r\nDefinitely, I
    am fascinated by the history of writing.\r\n\r\nThat's it...\r\nI don't want to
    convince anyone here of something in particular. My only \"public agenda\" is
    to make software experiments on text and exchanging ideas on the topic, for the
    fun of it."
  created: '2009-03-10 21:28:16'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "I actually found it surprisingly easy to read the text as long as one doesn't
    attempt to skip parts and stays on the line.\r\n\r\nHmm... this'd make an excellent
    way of viewing Trajan column.\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2009-03-10 22:20:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ariel, thanks for explaining your reading background. I was trying to see
    if perhaps you read English less fluently than Hebrew, and that was why you're
    possibly not annoyed by spiral moving text (in English).\r\n\r\nWill you have
    time to address my other points?\r\n\r\n> as long as one doesn\u2019t attempt
    to skip parts\r\n\r\nExcept that's not \"skipping\". You're simply\r\nfeeling
    your reading system <em>trying</em> to go faster.\r\n\r\n> this\u2019d make an
    excellent way of viewing Trajan column.\r\n\r\nThe spiral on the Trajan column
    shows images, not text.\r\nThe text is flat.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nSo the question
    is, how useful is it really to\r\nsacrifice so much performance, for what gain?\r\nWhen
    is the great discomfort caused to most\r\nreaders of benefit? What is meaningful
    about\r\nthat \"helicoidal\" vehicle?\r\n\r\nThese are the types of questions
    a designer would ask.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-10 22:53:13'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"So the question is, how useful is it really to sacrifice so much performance,
    for what gain?\"\r\nWell, I don't think reading lots of moving text is a good
    idea either. But since I first saw Muriel Cooper's work, I thought that type in
    space would be a much sweeter interface than windows are. And getting from one
    place to another among of type elements in space, whereby the type moves you from
    one place to another, perhaps reading as you go, that I think is cool. In addition,
    I think it has more application for touch screen interfaces than mouse driven
    ones. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-03-11 12:43:52'
- author:
    name: arielm
  body: ">Hmm... this\u2019d make an excellent way of viewing Trajan column\r\n\r\nGreat
    idea indeed! I remember once standing near the column in Roma, more busy being
    mad at the Romans for inventing the principle 2K years before myself than thinking
    of practical applications :-)\r\n\r\nSo thanks oprion, there's nothing like a
    free and associative dialogue between creative people (no matter how you call
    them: scientists, designers, artists, intellectuals, avant-guardistes, all of
    this at the same time, etc.)\r\n\r\nThat is part of what's meaningful, as far
    as I'm concerned.\r\n\r\n>So the question is, how useful is it really to sacrifice
    so much performance,\r\n>for what gain?\u201D\r\n\r\nWorking with Adobe CS4 suite
    to design stuff can also be considered as a great sacrifice of performance but
    who cares, with today's computers? And actually, the experiment featured here
    is backed-up by OpenGL (hardware acceleration for free), eating a very few processor
    cycles.\r\n\r\n>But since I first saw Muriel Cooper\u2019s work, I thought that
    type in space\r\n>would be a much sweeter interface than windows are\r\n\r\nBingo!
    Muriel Cooper is one the pioneers to \"blame\". She started with all this at the
    M.I.T with the \"Visible Language Workshop\", then came John Maeda and his \"Aesthetics
    and Computation Lab\", then 2 of this students -- Fry and Reas -- came out with
    Processing.\r\n\r\nAnd then... an invasion of hybrid software experimentators
    :-)"
  created: '2009-03-11 14:23:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I first saw Muriel Cooper\u2019s work, I thought that ...\r\n\r\nI certainly
    agree that human interfaces can benefit a lot from breaking the current boring
    metaphors.\r\n\r\n> there\u2019s nothing like a free and associative dialogue
    between creative people\r\n\r\nAgreed. There's also nothing like a designer thinking
    on his own how to help other people.\r\n\r\n> Working with Adobe CS4 suite ...
    eating a very few processor cycles.\r\n\r\nI'm sorry but this is quite telling...
    You're always thinking on the side of the creator, not the user. I was actually
    talking about the user's reading performance!  :-/\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nWill you have
    the time to address my idea about a dynamic reading interface?\r\n\r\nOr should
    I ask: will you have the inclination to listen to more than mere praise?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-11 16:49:42'
- author:
    name: theplatypus
    picture: 115609
  body: "I read it easily.  I found it curious and my mind tried to make sense of
    it within the first few seconds.  Then I just started on the top and followed
    the line all the way down.  After that, I allowed myself to just stare at it as
    a whole.  Pretty easy to filter out everything but the word you're currently on.
    \ This is really interesting and look forward to different applications of it.\r\n\r\nI'm
    curious, have your read about how we read?  \r\n[[http://themicrofoundry.com/ss_read1.html|Check
    it out]]\r\n\r\ndaniel"
  created: '2009-03-11 19:15:36'
- author:
    name: arielm
  body: ">Agreed. There\u2019s also nothing like a designer thinking on his own how
    to\r\n>help other people.\r\n\r\n>I\u2019m sorry but this is quite telling...
    You\u2019re always thinking on the side\r\n>of the creator, not the user.\r\n\r\nhrant,
    let's face it: your reactions are also \"quite telling\" about yourself (infinite
    loop here...)\r\n\r\nBut it's not the point, we're not on war as far as I know.
    I'm sure there will be a place for both of us in the Pantheon of People that Influenced
    the History of Reading.\r\n\r\n>Will you have the time to address my idea about
    a dynamic reading interface?\r\n\r\nIf you talk about the \"how we read\" page,
    I was there: it looks very promising and I definitely respect this kind of research.
    I can't address it much for now because I'm not a very academic nature (need more
    time for digestion and assimilation, if you prefer...)\r\n\r\nThe way I'm \"assimilating\"
    would be more like taking this material as input on a long creative trip and to
    come out with a crazy mutant work, one that would hopefully help making some progress
    (as far as one doesn't look always only at the 1st degree of things...)"
  created: '2009-03-11 20:37:32'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Oooh dear... I think I'm going to throw-up. The rotating column of text is
    quite lovely to look at, but really motion sickness-inducing to read.
  created: '2009-03-12 02:41:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I\u2019m sure there will be a place for both of us in the Pantheon of People
    ...\r\n\r\nLet's be practical: you need to find your place here.\r\nI'm not trying
    to be mean - the benefit of this place\r\nstems largely from its strong focus
    on functionality;\r\nthat's what makes it... functional!  :-)\r\n\r\nMaybe it's
    too far of a stretch for you, but I'm glad\r\nto see you're trying, and I wish
    you luck. We're all\r\nslaves to our respective natures, and our most\r\nchallenging
    and significant battles are internal.\r\n\r\n> If you talk about the \u201Chow
    we read\u201D page\r\n\r\nActually I was talking about something that does\r\nstem
    from that, but specifically it was the last\r\nparagraph in my first post in this
    thread.\r\n\r\n> I\u2019m not a very academic nature\r\n\r\nWell, that's a problem,
    because the human animal\r\nis very complex. Actually I'm not as academic as I\r\nneed
    to be. You should know that I've been accused\r\nby some of relying on \"wooly\"
    logic. To those people\r\nyou must be Yeti!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-12 03:17:43'
- author:
    name: arielm
  body: ">Oooh dear... I think I\u2019m going to throw-up.\r\n\r\nAnd it's just the
    appetizer! A couple of years after placing text on a rotating helix, I made this
    series: [[http://chronotext.org/Isaiah]] (try \"laser guided\" for instantaneous
    faiting ;-)\r\n\r\nUsually, the feedback from people varies between mesmerization
    and sickness. But of course the purpose of the work is far more to be an exploration
    than to harm anyone.\r\n\r\n>the benefit of this place stems largely from its
    strong focus on\r\n>functionality; that\u2019s what makes it... functional! :-)\r\n\r\nI
    agree that my work is mainly around aesthetics and computation, which makes senses
    when you're an artist and a programmer. Functionality is not my primary goal,
    but I will probably address the subject sometimes.\r\n\r\nIf I had to choose between
    1st degree functionality like you are suggesting here and \"how we interact with
    text\" at the broader sense of interaction design, I will probably pick the second
    option.\r\n\r\n>Actually I was talking about something that does\r\n>stem from
    that, but specifically it was the last\r\n>paragraph in my first post in this
    thread.\r\n\r\nSmart guy! You knew that by using strange words like atlatl you
    would finally end-up catching my attention :-)\r\nNow seriously: it looks like
    a great starting point for a great experiment. You should find an investor, build-up
    the right team and go for it (you have a startup!)\r\n\r\n>We\u2019re all slaves
    to our respective natures, and our most\r\n>challenging and significant battles
    are internal.\r\n\r\nI agree. And it applies to all of us. For example, if you
    had to create a startup on the basis of your idea, it would definitely be a stretch
    for your nature, no?\r\n\r\nThe Yeti, with a sarbacane"
  created: '2009-03-12 09:04:48'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>I agree that my work is mainly around aesthetics and computation, which
    makes senses when you\u2019re an artist and a programmer. Functionality is not
    my primary goal, but I will probably address the subject sometimes.</em>\r\n\r\nWhich
    may mean Typophile is not the perfect place to turn to for feed-back.\r\nBut thanks
    at least for clearing up that your experiments are not wanting to be tools.\r\n\r\n<em>\"I\u2019m
    sure there will be a place for both of us in the Pantheon of People that Influenced
    the History of Reading.\"</em>\r\n\r\n:-> This is cute.\r\nThe way you're going,
    I think you may well get into some Pantheon of People that Made Exciting iPhone
    Experiments, or maybe that of People Who Made Text Look Cool. And I know some
    artists can be ahead of their time and/or misunderstood by their audience; but
    I don't think you can expect to come close to touching the History of Reading
    as long as you don't learn about the intricacies of the reading process, and don't
    think from the user."
  created: '2009-03-12 10:27:52'
- author:
    name: arielm
  body: ">I think you may well get into some Pantheon of People that\r\n>Made Exciting
    iPhone Experiments, or maybe that of People\r\n>Who Made Text Look Cool\r\n\r\nSlow
    down on 1st degree interpretation please...\r\nTo place the \"Pantheon of People\"
    trick into context: it was mainly used to remind hrant that there's enough room
    for our two respective voices in the broad dialogue on reading that takes place
    all over the world.\r\n\r\n>Which may mean Typophile is not the perfect place
    to turn to\r\n>for feed-back.\r\n\r\nAgain in the lines of that what you and hrant
    think. But are you the only voices out there? Besides, nothing to fear of: I don't
    have any plans to conquer the whole typophile.com land or even to make a small
    putsch.\r\n\r\n>I don\u2019t think you can expect to come close to touching the
    History\r\n>of Reading as long as you don\u2019t learn about the intricacies of
    the\r\n>reading process, and don\u2019t think from the user\r\n\r\nYou know what?
    I think you're looking at the topics of Reading and User Experience from a very
    narrow point of view (and it brings us back to the beginning of that [[http://typophile.com/node/55496|other
    thread]]...)\r\n\r\nWhat would you create if you were commissioned by the home
    of the Dead Sea Scrolls (the most ancient fragments of the Bible) to create an
    installation featuring the same thousands year old text projected on a big wall
    and destined to be \"experienced\" by the visitors, just after they saw the original
    parchment fragments?\r\n\r\nThis is what I created: [[http://chronotext.org/scriptorium]]\r\n\r\nAfter
    almost 3 years on public exhibit, I can tell that in term of \"user experience
    and reading\": some people really get immersed into it, other find themselves
    playing at recognizing passages from the Bible... I'm really not the best orator
    for describing the work, but it does have an impact on people, for sure..."
  created: '2009-03-12 13:35:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> 1st degree functionality\r\n\r\nActually, as any text face designer will
    tell you, even the strictest text face has some personality, which can only come
    from its creator. As human beings, we can't help expressing ourselves; the issue
    is, do you make self-expression a purpose, or do you treat it as a quiet companion.\r\n\r\n>
    if you had to create a startup on the basis of your idea,\r\n> it would definitely
    be a stretch for your nature, no?\r\n\r\nDo you mean creating a startup? Yes it
    would.\r\nI've done it once, but then the internet scene imploded.\r\n\r\n> sarbacane\r\n\r\nNice.\r\n\r\n>
    are you the only voices out there?\r\n\r\nNo, but this <em>is</em> what Typophile
    usually sounds like.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-12 13:44:08'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Ariel, I'm very interested in this from an information visualization, microscreen
    and readability point of view. \r\n\r\nAs a reading science sleuth I found the
    babel experiment very interesting. By fixating steadily at a point in the text
    the text moves easily through the foveal field and the foveal field is drawn slowly
    through the helix. Parafoveal vision is kept intact; that is, it isn't disabled
    as in RSVP presented text. So I think this engages and plays with the perceptual
    mechanics of reading quite effectively. I don't think this is like scrolling credits
    at all. I found sense-following to be effortless and enhanced by the underlying
    text presentational metaphor. \r\n\r\nI did find the show-through from the intersecting
    text from the back of the helix distracting and felt it needs to be knocked back
    at the point where the eye is fixating. This might require a device to monitor
    eye position. Also monitored could be eye movements so the speed of the rotation
    can be adjusted to the individual's reading speed. This could prevent saccading
    forward. \r\n\r\nOn microscreens your paradigm could be prove functional I think,
    and in terms of interpretive typography, your experiments are historically interesting
    and very smart. Think of Apollinaire's Calligrammes for instance.\r\n\r\nWho said
    this: \"Typography is not a police state.\" And doesn't John Hudson say \"readerability\"
    is quite elastic? I for one embrace what you are doing. But then I think the experiments
    of David Carson have a place in the historical pantheon as well. It's not just
    shrapnel. I say Bravo!"
  created: '2009-03-12 14:06:36'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Peter: <em>And doesn\u2019t John Hudson say \u201Creaderability\u201D is
    quite elastic?</em>\r\n\r\nThat may give the wrong impression. It may be elastic,
    in the sense of accomodating new things by stretching, or it may simply be massive
    and we have yet to identify the limits of what it can accomodate. I'm not sure
    which, but instinctively I lean toward the view that it is massive.\r\n\r\nI do
    think horizontally scrolling text can be comfortably readable because, as you
    note, it provides for a constant fixation through which all the text moves, removing
    the need for saccades and hence for regressions. The application to microscreens
    is an interesting idea. What I found uncomfortable in the Babel spiral were the
    amount of stuff around the fixation and in the background and the top to bottom
    movement. The spiral is a nice piece of art, but from a 'reading moving text'
    perspective, a simple horizontal scroll through a limited field would be more
    interesting and revealing."
  created: '2009-03-12 14:22:26'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: John, a single horizontal line of moving text deprives the reader of a sense
    of the lexical structure of the text, which is an important part of the cognitive
    processing side of reading. Books give it in their print domain. I like that the
    experiments address this.
  created: '2009-03-12 14:42:14'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"horizontally scrolling text \u2026 provides for a constant fixation\u2026,
    removing the need for saccades and hence for regressions\"</em>\r\n\r\nNot knowing
    enough about the science of this, I wonder about it from a \"user perspective\":
    I noticed my eyes were still having to make regressions, and sometimes wanted
    to jump ahead faster than the text was scrolling, too. Also when reading static
    text, I <em>can</em> try to make my eyes move continuously, but it seems to hinder
    optimal retaining of content. \r\nIs there really such a thing as fixed-speed,
    continuous reading without saccades? And does it require the reader to (semi-)consciously
    use a certain technique?"
  created: '2009-03-12 14:46:41'
- author:
    name: arielm
  body: ">Ariel, I\u2019m very interested in this from an information visualization,\r\n>microscreen
    and readability point of view\r\n\r\nThanks... If you have an iPhone (\"microscreen\"
    enough?), I could send you some demos to play with (the offer is for everybody
    else interested as well...)\r\n\r\n>Think of Apollinaire\u2019s Calligrammes for
    instance\r\n\r\nIn one of the poems called \"liens\" (\"chains\"), there is even
    a verse about \"Towers of Babel changed to bridges\" ;-)\r\n\r\n>I did find the
    show-through from the intersecting text from the\r\n>back of the helix distracting\r\n\r\n>Also
    monitored could be eye movements so the speed of the rotation\r\n>can be adjusted
    to the individual\u2019s reading speed\r\n\r\nI could try a new version with highly
    dimmed background text and maybe with an overall cylindrical shape (instead of
    the current conus) so that rotation speed is at least constant.\r\n\r\nFinally,
    and without monitoring eye movements (low tech here...), I could also plug-in
    a keyboard (left / right) rotation-control scheme (have one in stock from a previous
    experiment, reminding the tool used by potters -- \"tour\", in french...)\r\n\r\nComing
    soon..."
  created: '2009-03-12 15:28:47'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Tracking.
  created: '2009-03-12 15:34:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> By fixating steadily at a point in the text the text moves easily through\r\n>
    the foveal field and the foveal field is drawn slowly through the helix.\r\n\r\n1)
    You're wasting the parafovea.\r\n2) The reader needs to control the [non-smooth]
    motion.\r\n3) It doesn't need to be a helix (except to please the creator).\r\n\r\n>
    This might require a device to monitor eye position.\r\n\r\nYup. And if you follow
    this train of thought to its terminus you arrive at what I describe above.\r\n\r\n>
    I noticed my eyes were still having to make regressions\r\n\r\nYup. It's a natural
    part of reading. Without regressions reading cannot be efficient, because you're
    blocking the brain's powerful intelligent guessing ability. Of course regressions
    are not efficient per se, but they are evidence that something quite efficient
    is happening deep down. Basically, you're not going fast enough if you don't bump
    the curb sometimes.\r\n\r\n> Is there really such a thing as fixed-speed, continuous
    reading without saccades?\r\n\r\nNobody has ever seen that happen.\r\n\r\nThe
    eye can only smoothly follow a moving object, and if you have to perform a saccade
    from one part of a moving object to another (noting that a text is really one
    thing) you're much more likely to miss.\r\n\r\n> I could also plug-in a keyboard\r\n\r\nUsing
    the mouse (just the left-right axis) would be better; you might also use the left
    button for a regression. The problem is that no matter what you use you're moving
    a function from the subconscious realm to the conscious - that will not be pretty.
    It's like when a doctor asks a patient to \"breathe normally\" - the result is
    never normal!\r\n\r\nOn top of that, speed isn't even really what's at play. :-/
    Saccade distance is highly variable (and sometimes backwards!), both between individuals
    and with one individual depending on so many variables. If the line must move,
    it must do so in tune with the jerky needs of the reader's visual cognition. This
    is very difficult to pull off.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nFrankly, in the design field this
    is called a solution looking for a problem. Experimental art can be quite useful
    to society, but you need to gauge your dedication to moving into the functional
    realm. If you try to sort of make it more functional I fear it will still not
    be functional enough, and all you will do is detract from the art.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-12 16:04:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> a single horizontal line of moving text deprives the\r\n> reader of a sense
    of the lexical structure of the text\r\n\r\nBut a helix (or really any such shape)
    is irrelevant there.\r\n\r\nIf you want to convey macro structure (which I agree
    is useful sometimes, although not always) what you might do is have large -perhaps
    colored- shapes sitting above and below the reading like, passively telling the
    reader what chapter etc. he's on - they do this in the mental background, where
    it belongs. The actual text should still be a single uncluttered line (two max).\r\n\r\nThe
    structure of a book for example is not really highly optimal - it arises not least
    from the needs of our arms and hands, which are irrelevant for reading per se.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-12 16:16:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "This may not be quite so special, despite its brilliance.\r\n\r\nIsn't it
    like every project where a designer decides to insert a little <em>difficultas</em>
    into the layout, departing from the comfort of convention, in order to challenge
    the reader, with the promise of reward that comes from successfully negotiating
    the puzzle?\r\n\r\nIt's best if there is some payback other than mere decipherment
    of text, and this is the sense of purpose, the recognition of meaning that comes
    from deciphering the designer's graphic metaphor. I say deciphering, but it's
    unlikely to be laborious, more like a flash of insight--you get it, or you don't.\r\n\r\nAlso
    there is a sense of participation, of belonging, that comes from immersing oneself
    in the style of a cultural artefact.\r\n\r\nSo, an example in a magazine may be
    the deck that's set with negative leading throughout. A little harder to read,
    but providing a frisson to the publication.\r\n\r\nSuch creativity has a low percentage
    of success in the wrong hands--and with copy (content) that is less than riveting.
    I've done challenging designs in the past which I thought were really cool, and
    perhaps other graphic designers thought so too. But we weren't the target audience,
    and I can look back at that stuff now and be sure nobody got past the first word.
    Nonetheless, designers have to take chances, to find the sweet spot that is different
    enough to be interesting, but not too difficult to negotiate, or else their work
    will suffer the opposite fate of being too dull to register with potential readers."
  created: '2009-03-12 16:37:03'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>Nonetheless, designers have to take chances, to find the sweet spot that
    is different enough to be interesting, but not too difficult to negotiate</em>\r\nYes,
    as do artists!"
  created: '2009-03-12 16:45:35'
- author:
    name: arielm
  body: "I made a new version, FWIW.\r\nThis is *just* experimentation after all:\r\n\r\n[[http://chronotext.org/lab/Babel2.jnlp]]\r\n\r\nAs
    promised:\r\n- reduced noise\r\n- cylindrical structure\r\n- finer control on
    spin\r\n\r\n- Use the right or left arrow keys to control spin (switch back and
    forth between the 2 keys until you become a master of inertia...)\r\n- Use the
    space key to brutally stop motion..."
  created: '2009-03-12 16:50:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> It\u2019s best if there is some payback other than mere decipherment of
    text\r\n\r\nGenerally it's best if the text is easily deciphered!\r\n\r\n> designers
    have to take chances\r\n\r\nIndeed. But being designers, functionality needs to
    be much more important than expression. For example one might put an open-bottom
    binocular \"g\" in an otherwise conservative font - that's a risk, but hopefully
    one backed up by a functional belief.\r\n\r\n(Ariel, I'll look at the new version
    soon.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-12 17:27:50'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "it's funny.  first they tell you it has to be functional.\r\n\r\nthen they
    say you can't make it functional enough.\r\n\r\nthen they say \"well, there's
    nothing special here\".\r\n\r\nbut of course, if there wasn't, they wouldn't post.\r\n\r\nkeep
    up the good work, ariel.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-12 18:42:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ariel, the new iteration is a big improvement. Could you try a mouse-controlled
    one, and with a finer stepping of speed?\r\n\r\nReading speed/comfort is much
    improved, surely because the reader controls the rotation speed. However I found
    myself exerting a lot of conscious effort to keep going, detracting from real
    understanding of the text; even though I was reading the words without too much
    trouble, when I asked myself to repeat what I had read, I couldn't. Having to
    use an input device is a big part of that I think (see below). Now, if it's a
    text that people already know the essence of, that's not so bad. Just like when
    you go to the opera, you know what's going to happen, but you still enjoy it,
    and it means something different (and possibly better) than reading a print version
    of an opera you don't know.\r\n\r\nSo you could say there needs to be a balance
    between conscious control and immersion. I think if you could figure out a way
    to have a single button control the motion effectively, that would be the most
    immersive (other than stopping the motion entirely :-). Maybe make the space bar*
    like a gas pedal, so holding it down speeds things up** and letting it go slows
    things down. So if you feel like you're having trouble keeping up, you let go,
    wait a second, and saccade backwards*** to catch up.\r\n\r\n* Or actually a smaller
    key to reduce resistance.\r\n\r\n** Ideally up to a maximum pre-determined speed
    according to the reader's expertise. Or you might even intelligently guess at
    a good maximum dynamically based on the \"gas-down\" percentage! That would be
    great.\r\n\r\n*** Not the same as a regression here however.\r\n\r\nAnd something
    minor: when I get to \"Shimar\" my eyes involuntarily jump back to the beginning,
    then I have to scramble back down-left, hitting the brakes. This must be because
    vision is attracted to moving things, and the beginning of the text stands out
    when it suddenly comes back in from the right. And this should be the case with
    virtually everybody (although at slower speeds it might be OK). I can't think
    of how best to solve this, because the display doesn't [need to] know where you
    you are in the text.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-12 19:19:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>then they say \u201Cwell, there\u2019s nothing special here\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nBirdy,
    I am not \"they\"\r\nAnd that's not what I said.\r\nFly away, jerk."
  created: '2009-03-12 19:20:27'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "ariel-\r\n\r\n\"readability\" may be the raison d'etre in these forums,\r\nbut
    that's not going to be the situation for everything...\r\n\r\ni can see your experiments
    being used in music videos,\r\npoetry visualizations, and a multitude of other
    places...\r\n\r\ni can even see ad agencies slurping them up, meaning\r\nyour
    \"art\" projects could end up making you money...\r\n\r\nit looks like you're
    finally getting some useful feedback,\r\nbut keep in mind that there's a whole
    big world out there.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-12 19:42:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it looks like you\u2019re finally getting some useful feedback\r\n\r\nConsider
    why you failed to.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-12 19:53:23'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I wonder which would be more comfortable to read:\r\n\r\n1)  a text moving
    at constant speed (alterable by reader control) as you have; or\r\n\r\n2)  a text
    moving at speeds that vary based on changing content (also overall alterable by
    reader control). I'm thinking of changes (based on theory or experiment) like:\r\n-
    speed set per syllable rather than horizontal width (so \"through\" and \"so\"
    would pass by at the same rate; and \"amy\" would pass more slowly than \"yam\")\r\n-
    slower at spaces (\"nevermore\" would be faster than \"never ore\")\r\n- slower
    at punctuation like commas, periods, colons.\r\n- slower with more complex syntax
    or vocabulary.\r\n\r\n(Many of these ideas are based on cadence of reading aloud
    - I recognize they may not translate to considerations of silent reading unproblematically.)\r\n\r\nIn
    other words, would the reader find a changing speed based on educated guesses
    of their own needs more, or less, annoying?"
  created: '2009-03-12 19:58:13'
- author:
    name: arielm
  body: "bowerbird, thanks for the feedback and the spirit, and definitely: I can
    see the big world out there.\r\n\r\nI'm also sometimes confused by the reactions.
    Creative fight-back is what helps me the most to cope with all this.\r\n\r\nConcerning
    the feedback on the 2nd version of the experiment: great indeed to receive some
    practical input!\r\n\r\nLet's see where all this goes (noise of digestion and
    assimilation in the background...)"
  created: '2009-03-12 20:07:59'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "hrant said:\r\n>   Consider why you failed to.\r\n\r\num, it's not about
    me.\r\n\r\n(or you, for that matter.)\r\n\r\nhave a hard time staying on-topic,
    don't you?\r\nthat's ok.  a little a.d.d. is a good thing, i say...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-12 21:09:44'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"As promised: - reduced noise - cylindrical structure - finer control on
    spin\"\r\n\r\nI like to make it go fast!\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-03-15 19:32:30'
date: '2009-03-10 11:13:37'
node_type: forum
title: '"moving text cannot be read" (really?)'

---
