---
author:
  name: npgraphicdesign
body: "I feel really burnt out at my teaching job & have felt that way for approximately
  the last year. So, I handed in my resignation, which will become effective at the
  end of this spring semester. \r\n\r\nMy #1 destination is NYC. Since last summer,
  I've wanted to work there, but it never happened. Despite the economy woes, I feel
  that it's a good time for me to relocate from CT to NYC. I've heard different opinions
  from different people; some say that it's a horrible time to move, others say that
  freelance opportunities are readily available.\r\n\r\nAny NYC designers here that
  care to chime in with their feedback? Would be appreciate!\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I moved here three weeks ago. Temping is just dead. The print/identity job
    market is terrible; there are still a fair number of interactive and fashion design
    jobs turning up on a daily basis, mostly mid-level positions. But the competition
    is tough\u2014one AD told me he got over 300 applications for a job, and it wasn\u2019t
    the most desirable job. And some jobs are evaporating with the money supply before
    anybody gets hired\u2014it happened to me just yesterday. The only real upside
    is that rents are in free-fall; even super-hot Brooklyn rents started crashing
    in the last few weeks.\r\n\r\nSpend a few days watching Craigslist (where most
    NYC job postings go), Krop, and Coroflot. If you really want to come here, make
    sure you have a big pile of cash to live on. Don\u2019t sign a lease unless they\u2019ll
    let you out with no penalty if you get laid off and can\u2019t find work (this
    is already common in Manhattan). It might even be a good idea to submit a resume/portfolio
    to temp/headhunting firms for feedback before you come."
  created: '2009-03-11 16:00:47'
- author:
    name: npgraphicdesign
  body: What are you doing for work James? Are you freelancing or still looking for
    work?
  created: '2009-03-11 16:07:08'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I\u2019m unemployed and stumbling through my crappy font design projects
    all day. But I\u2019m also right out of school, I\_don\u2019t have any Flash in
    my portfolio, I don\u2019t know the first thing about Drupal or Wordpress, so
    I\u2019m not really well-prepared for job-hunting in New York. If I didn\u2019t
    have someone else paying the bills I would have given up on design six months
    ago. "
  created: '2009-03-11 16:52:03'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: Gutsy move in these times. But some times that's what it takes. Good luck!
  created: '2009-03-11 17:34:32'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: 'I''ve had friends here tell me the same thing James said: hundreds of applicants
    for every open position. Which sucks, but you should look at how many jobs are
    open in your current location. I moved to nyc from chicago last fall and there
    are definitely more job opportunities here than there. But I''m really glad I''m
    not looking for a job, I saved up so I could take a sabbatical from clients. Good
    luck!'
  created: '2009-03-11 21:12:55'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "<em>my crappy font design projects</em>\r\n\r\nI do not think so, cheer up.\r\n\r\nJames,
    this is like recommending prospecting for gold, i.e. stupid, but: if you strike
    it lucky with a font on MyFonts, it will pay the bills for quite a while. My gut
    feeling right now is right up your alley: display, individualistic, perhaps with
    even only a few family members. While all sales are down, something like Museo
    still sells quite a bit. "
  created: '2009-03-11 23:29:10'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Fantomas, James Puckett's advice is good. I've been freelancing at NYC ad
    agencies for 2+ years now, and I've always been able to find gigs... until now.
    I've even heard of studio managers and art directors being laid off. Agencies
    are merging studios to cut costs. That doesn't mean there aren't any opportunities,
    but as James said, if you send in your r\xE9sum\xE9, there will be at least 300
    other r\xE9sum\xE9s being sent in, too.\r\n\r\nI agree with jackson -- you'll
    probably find more opportunities here, in spite of the crisis. Just make sure
    you have some spare $$$, in case it takes a while to find a job."
  created: '2009-03-12 00:54:55'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: '@James what do you need to know about WordPress?'
  created: '2009-03-12 01:10:08'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "@paul: How to install, configure, and design web sites using it. Now that
    the economy is in the tank businesses have much less money to spend, so instead
    of print or custom web sites they go for projects built on CMS/blogging systems.
    And that kind of hands-on web design is really not somewhere I\u2019m interested
    in going\u2014I know enough about tech to  make two or three times more money
    doing UNIX sysadmin work and not have to deal with clients complaining about logos
    and colors."
  created: '2009-03-12 01:45:01'
- author:
    name: gillo
    picture: 113901
  body: "@James: I'm in a similar position as you, I left school last semester and
    was hoping to stay in NY, and didn't realize how difficult it would be to find
    a job. Anyway, here's my rant: What's the deal with flash? every single design-related
    job requires flash\u2014even jobs advertised as \"print\". I'm starting to think
    that the people writing the job descriptions don't even know what they're talking
    about and just tack on flash like some kind of buzzword.  Grrr. "
  created: '2009-03-12 04:59:07'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>What\u2019s the deal with flash? every single design-related job requires
    flash\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\n\u2022 The world is full of people who like blinking
    lights, motion, fades, and low-end video games. And that\u2019s what those people
    are willing to pay for.\r\n\u2022\_Designers get stuck in the \u201CI don\u2019t
    do code\u201D mindset and use Flash for all of their small projects.\r\n\u2022
    No headaches from undocumented IE rendering bugs."
  created: '2009-03-12 05:19:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "NYC is so 20th century. If you want to be in the thick of mankind's glorious
    messed-up future, try LA, where it can feel totally normal to be \"between jobs\",
    and even \"self unemployed\" can make sense. The weather is good enough that you
    can even live in your car. But you <em>do</em> need a car - without one you're
    a useless lump here.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-12 05:40:18'
- author:
    name: gillo
    picture: 113901
  body: "<cite>No headaches from undocumented IE rendering bugs.</cite>\r\n\r\nthat
    does sound nice... as long as all your visitors have enough patience to wait for
    your slow, slow flash site to load.\r\n\r\nMore relevantly, though, 2 of my roommates
    who are photographers are extra busy with freelance work lately, I guess because
    all the companies laid off their in-house photographers and need someone to do
    the work...so I don't know if that also goes for design freelancers or not, but
    maybe?"
  created: '2009-03-12 08:27:20'
- author:
    name: npgraphicdesign
  body: "That's what some of my friends are saying. It's hard to find a full-time
    job with benefits, but freelance jobs are in abundance. I guess only time and
    relocation will tell.\r\n\r\nAnyone else in NYC?"
  created: '2009-03-12 12:11:30'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "I just pulled a similar move to Philadelphia, from Boston, about three months
    ago in order to be closer to family. Granted this city is not really comparable
    to NYC or Boston in terms of the amount of design work or publishing being done
    here, but there has been nothing. Nothing. And I <cite>know</cite> Flash, and
    can turn out some lovely stuff in AS3. But the competition is simply too stiff,
    or else, as James noted, jobs evaporate even before the interview stage. \r\n\r\nI'm
    just going to try to eke out doing freelance work until my wife finishes her MA,
    and then I'm thinking about law school. Weeee.\r\n\r\nGood luck!"
  created: '2009-03-12 15:17:17'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "On a related note, are all the short-term unpaid internships I see in NYC
    design job listings normal? Or are they just misers exploiting the unemployed
    young designers out there? I\u2019ve seen hundreds of internships that require
    print and web experience, sometimes even expecting the intern to provide a computer
    and software, and they run as short as two weeks and no more than six. I\u2019ve
    even seen some very specific production internships that are only for a night,
    just to get a project out. Please tell me that this isn\u2019t normal and that
    the local design schools teach the kids not to work for people who are too stingy
    to hire freelancers or production staff. In DC even the really crooked \u201Cnonprofit\u201D
    lobbying organizations didn\u2019t try to pull the stuff I see going on with New
    York internships."
  created: '2009-03-12 15:30:33'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: 'Eric, I''m right there with you... just moved closer to Philly myself, and
    I''m seeing diddly as far as jobs. I''ve applied a few places, but those jobs
    disappear almost as soon as I press send on the old email machine. It sucks. '
  created: '2009-03-12 18:19:37'
- author:
    name: Nachos
    picture: 116245
  body: "This is probably a better time economically to find freelance clients than
    spend all of your time looking for a full-time position. Just realize the challenge
    involved in having steady bills while the pay might not be as consistant. The
    fact that you are moving to a new city throws another element into the equation.
    \r\n\r\nNot to discourage though. My advice would be to FIND PEOPLE wherever you
    are. People know people who now people. People can be clients or friends of future
    clients. Who knows? The fact that you are reaching out to designers for advice
    on this forum is definitely a good start. Sorry I've not addressed your concerns
    about NYC (I live in Seattle)."
  created: '2009-03-12 20:04:03'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "RE: Flash and HR Departments\r\nI've seen how this works. I submitted to
    HR that we needed a competent UI graphic designer for web. What comes out the
    other end is Flash, PHP, Bachelor's Degree, Javascript, etc. Not a mention of
    UI, which is actually a harder specialty to find than the others. I ended up posting
    the real job to Craigslist myself because the people we were interviewing were
    everything we already had, but not what we needed.\r\n\r\n@James\r\nRE: Wordpress\r\nI'm
    a web designer who does a lot of Wordpress development, and I'm always looking
    for side gigs. If you hand me a finished Photoshop mockup, I could have you a
    decent theme done up real quick like. You help me finish up some of my fonts,
    and I'd do it for free and host it even.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-12 20:27:35'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Dan, I\u2019ll keep it in mind if I can start finding freelance gigs without
    using temp agencies. "
  created: '2009-03-12 20:38:57'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: A one night unpaid "production internship" where you have to bring your own
    computer and have print/web experience is possibly the sketchiest thing ever.
  created: '2009-03-12 20:48:45'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Traditionally, ad/design firms that did 'web' stuff did it all in Flash because
    it was just like using Illustrator.\r\n\r\nThese days, though, Flash is an IDE
    with it's own language and can be leveraged in some amazing ways. \r\n\r\nMost
    visual design gigs that ask for flash experience, are more likely looking for
    someone that understands what can and can't be done with it, and want someone
    that can do UX design with that in mind, but who will be passing the production
    on to dedicated Flash developers.\r\n\r\nThat and there's always the HR job descriptions
    that want someone with 10 years of graphic design, COBOL programming, oracle db
    optimization skills, and who can bat .350."
  created: '2009-03-12 21:18:06'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>More relevantly, though, 2 of my roommates who are photographers are
    extra busy with freelance work lately, I guess because all the companies laid
    off their in-house photographers and need someone to do the work...so I don\u2019t
    know if that also goes for design freelancers or not, but maybe?</em>\r\n\r\nI'm
    not so sure that this applies to design freelancers, Gillian. An ex-coworker was
    telling me that the creative temp agencies (the ones that get freelancers their
    gigs) are working with skeleton staffs right now... That means that even they
    are not getting requests for temp or freelance help."
  created: '2009-03-12 23:31:28'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Hi Nikita\r\n\r\nI sympathise with moving out of the teaching job (I gave
    mine up midway through last year), but you'll need a considerable budget to start
    up in a new town as a freelancer \u2013 whether you go direct or via agencies.
    \r\n\r\nI'm nowhere near NYC, but even in these backwaters people are taking advantage
    of the situation to post job specs that are quite unrealistic in their expectation
    (i.e. all rounder intermediate designer with print & web experience for US$20k
    p/a ??!!). The advice to post resumes/make connections/market yourself in advance
    is all good, but the reality is that the gravy days of freelancing are long gone.
    The saner option might be to lessen your expenditure, stay put and carefully restock
    your burnt-out creative cupboard."
  created: '2009-03-12 23:58:58'
- author:
    name: Nachos
    picture: 116245
  body: Sure, and while we're at it, why don't we all curl up in a fetal position
    and suck our thumbs because the economy is not what it was a year ago.
  created: '2009-03-13 16:17:19'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: I want my blankie.
  created: '2009-03-13 16:42:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, frugality <em>is</em> the new black. (And I feel <em>so</em> ahead
    of my time... ;-)\r\n\r\nDionysian living is the cause of this mess.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-13 17:49:14'
- author:
    name: stefpep
    picture: 116863
  body: There's nothing in Minneapolis either. Same story as New York and Boston.
    So many people have been fired and nobody's hiring. It is a really gutsy move
    right now. I would just be very wise about it. Think long and hard.
  created: '2009-03-14 23:48:03'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "hrant said:\r\n>   Dionysian living is the cause of this mess.\r\n\r\nyou're
    a grumpy old man, aren't you?         :+)\r\n\r\n_crooks_ are \"the cause of this
    mess\" --\r\ncriminals who weaseled their thumbs onto\r\nthe buttons of the financial
    control panel...\r\n\r\nit has nothing to do with pleasure-seeking.\r\n\r\n(the
    wrong-doers are chronically unhappy;\r\ntheir greed _never_ lets them feel satisfied,\r\nregardless
    of how much they already have;\r\nthat's why they ran the ship into the ground.\r\nand
    why they'll run it into the ground again,\r\nunless we put them where they can't
    hurt us.)\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-15 00:44:41'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Here it is again. Mountains of debt are not 'crooks' doing. That's what Hrant
    meant.\r\n\r\nAnd frugality is a concept recommended to aspiring poets who get
    carried away by the verbosity of their own exuberance.\r\nPoetry is about quality
    of words, not about their sheer numbers."
  created: '2009-03-15 00:51:51'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "paragraph said:\r\n>   Mountains of debt are not \u2019crooks\u2019 doing.
    \r\n\r\nyou're wrong.  totally.  completely.  dead-wrong.\r\n\r\nthat 700-billion-dollar
    \"mountain of debt\"\r\nthat we find directly in our path today was\r\nmost certainly
    produced by _criminals_,\r\nalthough they might never be _charged_...\r\n\r\nbut
    they knew full well what they were doing,\r\nand they knew full well that it was
    _wrong_,\r\nas in _immoral_, as in _destructive_to_society_.\r\n\r\nthose \"financial
    institutions\" that gave out loans for \r\n$200,000 homes to people making $2000
    a month?\r\n\r\nif they'd done it once or twice, it'd be \"a mistake\".\r\nbut
    they did it thousands and thousands of times...\r\ndo you think it was \"an accident\"?
    \ it was a _crime_.\r\n\r\nthey knew from the get-go that those were bad loans.\r\n\r\nthey
    knew -- with full certainty -- that there would be\r\nforeclosures eventually.
    \ but they didn't care, because\r\nit just meant they'd be the owners of an empty
    home,\r\nso they could loan money to new people to \"buy\" it...\r\n\r\nbesides,
    it helped pay off the loans they'd made to the\r\ndeveloper companies, and the
    builders and contractors.\r\nthe \"financial institutions\" made money at every
    level!\r\n\r\nmoreover, it fed the misleading notion that that house\r\nwas _worth_
    $200,000, because look, somebody had\r\n\"bought\" it for that price, even though
    -- as the banks\r\nand the builders knew full well -- it only cost $80,000\r\nto
    _build_ the darn thing.  they rolled in \"surplus\" profit.\r\nit's obscene, and
    everyone on the inside was aware of it.\r\n\r\nthey _knew_ what they were doing,
    they knew _exactly_.\r\n\r\nnor did it stop there...\r\n\r\nbecause when they
    bundled a bag of the bad loans to\r\nsell to other \"financial institutions\",
    at inflated prices,\r\nthey knew exactly what they were doing, yes they did.\r\n\r\nand
    the \"financial institutions\" which _bought_ them,\r\nand then turned around
    and sold them to someone else,\r\nat higher prices, knew exactly what they were
    doing too!\r\n\r\nthis little trick was straight out of the savings-and-loan\r\n\"scandal\"
    from a couple decades ago, and it worked again.\r\n\r\neveryone knew, and as long
    as everyone just kept passing\r\nthe bags along, always at a higher price than
    they'd paid,\r\nso they could extract their commission, they were happy.\r\n\r\nand
    that's criminal.  certainly immoral.  and despicable.\r\n\r\nbut it got even worse...\r\n\r\nthey
    knew that if they grew the cost of the bags enough,\r\nthey'd become \"too big
    to fail\" -- they even coined a cute\r\nslogan to drive the point home! -- and
    the _government_\r\nwould come in with a \"rescue\" plan -- i.e., more money!
    --\r\nand then they would slurp off some of _that_ big fund...\r\n\r\nyep, they
    knew who'd end up \"holding the bag\" in the end!\r\n\r\nyou see, they remembered
    that too from the s&l \"scandal\".\r\n\r\nand their gall is astounding!  $700
    billion!  unbelievable!\r\nwho could even conceive of such a huge amount of money!\r\nheck,
    g.m. had to work up nerve to ask for just $25 billion.\r\n(and g.m. got slapped!
    \ but the money guys?  kid gloves.)\r\n\r\nand they didn't care if their stock
    market crashed, because\r\nthey knew the big loser would be _our_retirement_plans_...\r\n\r\ndo
    you really think the whole retirement-money system was\r\nsomething that these
    \"financial institutions\" didn't understand\r\nthey could game, at our expense?
    \ talk about a ponzi scheme.\r\n\r\nbut heck, they learned this trick from the
    government itself,\r\nwith the \"social security\" system, which is explicitly
    ponzi...\r\n\r\nit's totally silly to say that \"dionysian living\" caused this
    mess.\r\nthis was _greed_, pure greed, to the point of being _criminal_.\r\nand
    they knew what they were doing, they knew it _exactly_...\r\nand if you can't
    see that, you are blind.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-15 22:07:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I recommend a viewing of La Boheme. The lot of poets, artists, writers, and
    perhaps now graphic designers, has not changed for centuries. The meek will not
    inherit the earth--unless they wrench it from the cold, dead, hands of the wealthy
    and powerful, first. :-)\r\n  ChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-15 22:17:58'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Not much of a consolation, but over here in the Low Countries us free-lancers
    are feeling the cinch too.\r\nHardly amazing considering the origin of the term
    \u2018free-lancer\u2019, but nonetheless: I am becoming a bit worried. Last year
    I resumed work after an extended sabbatical and I was really going somewhere,
    I felt. Now my biggest client is scaling back outsourced work. Which means my
    projected income for this year will be a quarter of last year if I don\u2019t
    pick up some new projects.\r\n\r\nI am considering a career move ; ).\r\n\r\n.
    . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-03-16 14:33:09'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Regarding freelance, that\u2019s a tough place to go right now. Doing some
    networking and getting by on freelance sounds great, but I\u2019m finding that
    when I go out networking I just run into people looking for work. At the last
    big networking party I went to almost everyone was looking for work; even the
    employed people were because they all assume that they\u2019re going to lose their
    jobs soon. Nobody was there looking for a designer to help with a business venture.
    Networking isn\u2019t cheap, either: unless an even has a big sponsor, it\u2019s
    anywhere from $5 to $25 just to get in the door.\r\n\r\nAt this point I am seriously
    considering getting some kind of night shift doorman or security job where I can
    spend a few hours working on fonts in the slow hours. "
  created: '2009-03-16 15:01:15'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "I heard on the radio this morning that in China, something like 90% of cars
    are bought cash in hand, 50% of mortgages.\r\n\r\nThe Western ability to borrow
    money to pay for what one could have paid cash for is certainly NOT to be blamed
    on the crooks. The crooks simply acknowledge how hideously stupid some people
    are and take advantage of them for it.\r\n\r\nPeople and cultures that have a
    proper awareness and respect for money have done much better for themselves. For
    instance, in America there are mortgage \"lenders\" who strictly follow Sharia
    law for Muslims. Meaning, of course, that interest isn't charged. The person doing
    the borrowing has to bear a higher burden of a down payment on the home, and the
    lender has stricter underwriting policies because they only charge a one time
    fixed fee that is built into the payments. These mortgage companies, and the people
    who borrowed *only the absolute minimum* have fared well while all of the Western
    banks and their borrowers have wallowed in their own filthy mess.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-16 15:04:25'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "@james\r\nI always recommend night audit at slow hotels. The pay isn't going
    to be great, but the work is minimal."
  created: '2009-03-16 15:05:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> hideously stupid some people are\r\n\r\nBut the system tells them what
    to believe.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-16 15:35:46'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: ">>the system tells them what to believe.\r\n\r\nI fail to see how that disqualifies
    them from the \"hideously stupid\" description."
  created: '2009-03-16 15:51:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Because the only thing people can believe is what they're told. If people
    who love them (like their parents) don't guide them enough, then chances are they'll
    believe people who want to own them. Part of the problem is compulsory public
    education (which tellingly doesn't include Frugality 101) since it separates children
    from their parents - typically their mother (so that women can \"contribute\"
    to the economy).\r\n\r\nWhen 75% of the economy is people buying junk they don't
    really need, the whole system is really just Madoff to the power Madoff.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-16 16:11:02'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "I had a discussion this morning with someone about the Gypsy method of finance:
    Give all of your money to the family matriarch, then let her decide what you can/can
    not spend your money on. She will then evaluate your and the family's options,
    and dole out only the exact amount of money needed for that specific transaction,
    in cash, out of the family's coffers.\r\n\r\nNow THAT is a system I could live
    with, because like most Americans, I am hideously stupid when it comes to finance.\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-16 16:16:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "and if the family matriarch is a Madoff, then what? You are still screwed.
    \r\nPeople choose who they trust. They can be wrong in who they choose. This will
    never change no matter what system you \"choose\" to believe in. There are crooks
    and deceitful people in this world of all persuasions, governments, religions,
    families, clans, tribes, institutions, anti-institutions, and kingdoms.\r\nThe
    key words are trust and faith. The most deceitful people can put on such a trustful
    appearance. The problem is a world without trust is a very lonely place.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-16 16:34:22'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Wow. Has the word \"Madoff\" made its way into the lexicon already?\r\n\r\n\"He
    madoff with some other guy's money\" :)"
  created: '2009-03-16 16:39:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "and if it is a young women, is it Maidoff with my money? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-16 16:41:18'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Since this thread has appeared to turn into a free for all...\r\n\r\n\"which
    tellingly doesn\u2019t include Frugality 101\"\r\n\r\nSadly, Reading, 'Riting
    and 'Rithmetic are the core courses taught in the US.\r\n\r\nFrom Pre-k to getting
    my BFA, not once was I required to take any form of Economics course work.\r\n\r\nI
    think that might be part of the issue. "
  created: '2009-03-16 16:45:14'
- author:
    name: npgraphicdesign
  body: "Dan\r\nThat's too funny. \"They Madoff with my design sense before I had
    a chance to save it.\"\r\n\r\nMaybe I should work as a doorman somewhere. License
    and 10 dollar cover please? ;)"
  created: '2009-03-16 17:01:43'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>From Pre-k to getting my BFA, not once was I required to take any form
    of Economics course work.</cite>\r\n\r\nMost of the Ph.D economists out there
    didn\u2019t seem to have anything especially smart to say about America\u2019s
    insane economy in the last decade; neither did all of the MBAs who studied macro-
    and micro-economics from those economists. People didn\u2019t need education to
    prevent this, they needed common sense and some grip on reality. Any idiot who
    applied a little critical thinking could see that the real estate market and the
    stock market were grossly overvalued and that the entire nation was overleveraged.
    But people chose to ignore what made sense, to ignore the few economists and pundits
    who were pointing out that the system was a joke, and followed the herd. Economics
    education can\u2019t prevent that sort of mass delusion any more than religious
    instruction can enable the devout to see the absurdities in their faith. It just
    gives people a better vocabulary to discuss their fantasies."
  created: '2009-03-16 17:01:55'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Credit is a great engine of economic progress, but it has to be regulated.
    In the past, it worked very well to make the US the richest country. But it leads
    to booms and terrible busts, fueled by speculation and crooks, without regulation.
    \r\n\r\nI blame the Reaganite philosophy--all taxes and regulation is bad--which
    infected also Clinton to some extent, for the current financial collapse. Right
    now, China is attempting to expand credit, agreeing that you need a system of
    both savings and credit to work well and be stable. I've heard economists saying
    that part of the problem is that we had too little savings, and China too much.
    \r\n\r\nYou need to realize that in China the savings rate is so high because
    they haven't been able to trust the banks or government to help them with anything.
    For example, the government will just quit paying employees for months on end.
    This kind of thing is also very dysfunctional.\r\n\r\nThere are no simple solutions,
    though there do seem to be solutions, and the Obama administration is working
    at them.    "
  created: '2009-03-16 17:15:03'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Any idiot who applied a little critical thinking could see that the real
    estate market and the stock market were grossly overvalued\"\r\n\r\nI disagree.\r\n\r\nIn
    hindsight, yes, it's very easy to say that, but at the time, I don't think many
    people did. \r\n\r\nWhen the American Dream is home ownership, separated nuclear
    family units, and both banks and government doing what they can to both market
    and accommodate that, there is a societal pressure to aim for that. It's not a
    greed as much as a \"that's what we're supposed to do as Americans.\" And when
    folks do that in a time of increasingly upward home values, the trend is to 'get
    in while we can before we can't afford a place' rather than a careful study of
    long term trends and analysis of the mortgage models that were being sold.\r\n\r\nAs
    a culture, we've grown accustomed to economic short sightedness. That's partly
    due to how our system works (consumer driven) and partly due to lack of personal
    education on the matter. \r\n\r\n\"Economics education can\u2019t prevent that
    sort of mass delusion any more than religious instruction can enable the devout
    to see the absurdities in their faith.\"\r\n\r\nI disagree. I think education
    goes along way. Along with economics 101, I've always been a proponent of theological
    history taught in the schools as well. :o)\r\n\r\nFor instance, there's a giant
    lack of art and design education in our system. It wasn't until college that I
    found it and had it instilled in me via education. \r\n\r\nAs for the current
    situation, there's plenty of blame to go around to all parties involved. "
  created: '2009-03-16 17:22:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Carnegie Mellon used to have an Economics course required for graphic design
    students. I don't think it helped me be more frugal. Ohio State had a Sociology
    course requirement for design students, too. I don't think it helped people be
    more social :-)\r\n\r\n ChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-16 17:23:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Give all of your money to the family matriarch ...\r\n\r\nDan, I'm actually
    a monarchist.\r\n\r\n> if the family matriarch is a Madoff, then what?\r\n\r\nWeigh
    the chances of that.\r\nIt's so much easier to find one benign monarch than thousands
    of honest capitalists.\r\n\r\n> I blame the Reaganite philosophy\r\n\r\nRight,
    just keep latching on to the past, and your future will be bright!\r\nReagan,
    Caslon, what else?\r\n\r\n> Carnegie Mellon used to have an Economics course required
    for\r\n> graphic design students. I don\u2019t think it helped me be more frugal.\r\n\r\nYou
    expect one course to counteract decades of incessant brainwashing?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-16 18:06:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "For many people, especially those working in the arts, the culture and lifestyle
    of cities is where it's at.\r\nBut from an economic perspective, if you can telecommute
    or earn your income off the internet, it's feasible to live anywhere (with high-speed
    connection, that is) and have much, much lower overhead.\r\n\r\nBut do you have
    to be a bit of a redneck or a loner to do that, or congregate in colonies (rather
    than ghettoes)? "
  created: '2009-03-16 18:15:46'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Nick, I benefitted greatly from the internet early, not just by designing
    for the web, but by working for publishers in Sydney while living in Melbourne
    (say, a 1000&nbsp;km). Then the same publishers discovered that they can send
    their stuff a bit farther, and pay only one-tenth of my hourly fees for it. Even
    my accountant said to give up!\r\n\r\nIn the long run, I see only one (rather
    unfortunate) outcome: a shift of white collar, even creative jobs into the places
    where manufacturing, prepress, printing, customer service, IT and data processing
    has gone already. All it takes, is for our customers to send even more work there,
    then our schools will have to cut down on training unneeded IT guys, engineers,
    designers, etc., as the schools in the new centres get better and train more and
    more of the locals.\r\n\r\nAnd then, there are the contests: a book cover for
    $150 or a logo for $100 to the winner. Bugger!"
  created: '2009-03-16 18:53:51'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "it's easy to see something fishy is going on\r\nwhen you know -- as the banks
    knew --\r\nthat a house that cost $80,000 to _build_\r\n-- according to loans
    they'd given to the\r\nbuilder -- was then selling for $200,000.\r\n\r\nespecially
    when that $200,000 house was\r\n\"bought\" by a guy making $2,000 a month,\r\nthanks
    to a loan given him by the same bank,\r\nwho knew (or could have easily found
    out)\r\nthat his income was indeed $2,000 a month,\r\nexcept they didn't even
    bother to _check_...\r\n\r\nin the old days, they would fine-tooth your\r\nfinancial
    records when you bought a house.\r\n\"we see you were a month late paying your\r\nphone
    bill in july 4 years ago, how come?\"\r\nand you'd have to respond, \"that check
    was\r\nlost in the mail, so i had to send another.\"\r\nthey grilled you.  it
    was very unpleasant.\r\n\r\nbut in the last few years, all of a sudden,\r\nthey
    stopped doing that, and then they\r\nstopped checking on your income at all,\r\nand
    word got out that they'd give anyone\r\na loan, so all kinds of people who would\r\nhave
    never thought of applying for a loan\r\n-- who couldn't buy a decent used car,\r\nlet
    alone a nice home in the suburbs --\r\nwere suddenly showing up in droves, and\r\nbanks
    just kept making more bad loans...\r\n\r\nthey _knew_ those loans were bad loans.\r\n\r\nthis
    wasn't accidental.  it was malfeasance.\r\n\r\nand when that same bank puts a
    big bunch\r\nof these bad loans into a package and then\r\nsells it back and forth
    with other banks who\r\nare doing the same thing, that's a _scheme_.\r\n\r\nthey
    knew what they were doing, and they\r\nknew it was wrong, and they kept doing
    it,\r\nbecause they knew uncle sam was a sucker.\r\nit was illegal.  it was immoral.
    \ it was wrong.\r\n\r\nas usual, the average person was just a pawn\r\nin this
    game being played by the rich guys...\r\n\r\nand now a whole bunch of _innocent_people_\r\nare
    unemployed, or underemployed, and suffer.\r\n\r\nrich people?  still pulling million-dollar
    bonuses.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-16 20:29:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Right, just keep latching on to the past, and your future will be bright!\r\n\r\nThanks,
    that's pretty much my plan: understand the past, reject the worst, build on the
    best. \r\n\r\nWhat's yours?"
  created: '2009-03-16 20:43:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>In the long run, I see only one (rather unfortunate) outcome</em>\r\n\r\nAs
    far as design services go, there must be some monetary value to living in the
    local culture you're communicating with.\r\n\r\nAs for font sales, the market
    is global. Of course, people in some parts of the world can't or won't spend,
    say, $39 for a font, but in my experience there are enough who can, in many parts
    of the world, to keep the business viable."
  created: '2009-03-16 20:48:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Part of my plan is to expose people who want to\r\nobserve the past simply
    to become the new masters.\r\n\r\nBut frankly I don't like putting too much blame
    on\r\nindividuals, not least because that allows the true\r\nmasters in the background
    to prop up and then duly\r\nsacrifice individuals. Like presidents for example.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-16 21:52:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "For all of you who have seen \"History of the World, Part II\", you may find
    plenty of jobs as the \"Pissboy\" to Louis XVI.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-16 23:48:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">become the new masters\r\n\r\nI'm going to become a new master? Of what?
    Damn, that'll be a welcome change!"
  created: '2009-03-17 00:07:05'
- author:
    name: Inkredible
  body: "Hello everyone, i'm new around here...finally decided to sign up after lurking
    for so long. I'm actually thinking of starting a small, low-key afterwork mixer
    for creatives here in NYC so we can all network and find a way to help each other
    through the job crunch.\r\n\r\nIf I get it up and running, i'll be sure to post
    it on here.\r\n\r\nTo the OP, good luck with your move."
  created: '2009-03-17 16:21:34'
date: '2009-03-11 15:44:47'
node_type: forum
title: Resigning from my job and relocating to NYC.

---
