---
author:
  name: Frode Bo Helland
  picture: 112295
body: "I'd love some explanation and opinions! \r\n\r\n[[FF Legato]]"
comments:
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "Its design concept.\r\n\r\nI can\u2019t put it any better myself, so here\u2019s
    what Hrant Papazian had to say on typographica (best of 2004):\r\n\r\n<em>Evert
    Bloemsma's Legato typeface is something truly new, which is extremely rare. Its
    essential attribute is that the black of the individual letterforms is made equal
    in importance to the white inside and between the letters. It does this by disposing
    of the linking between the two edges of the black, something inherent in the conventional
    forming of shapes derived from a marking tool, such as the broad-nib pen.\r\n\r\nBy
    making the black and white harmonize, Legato approaches an ideal of readability,
    since reading involves the perception of positive/negative space as one thing.
    Also, it does this while still appearing conventional to the reader -- a key feature
    in any text face. All this makes it the best typeface of a much longer period
    than just 2004!</em>"
  created: '2009-03-12 14:06:30'
- author:
    name: geraintf
    picture: 110492
  body: "i'm sure you're aware of the previous discussion here:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/14636/revisions/14636/view\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/7740?from=50&comments_per_page=50\r\n\r\nmany
    claims have been made about legato, principally about how it achieves balance
    between black and white without resort to traditional stroke-based models. and
    it is sometimes said the white in legato is designed to be 'inter-glyph' rather
    than just a counter. have i got that right?\r\n\r\ni agree further discussion
    would be good, especially if legato is as significant a design as some have claimed.
    what i'd like to see is some pics patiently and clearly illustrating these points.
    hrant, is that something you'd be interested in doing?\r\n\r\ncheers\r\n\r\ng\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-12 14:16:30'
- author:
    name: geraintf
    picture: 110492
  body: sorry jan, you got there before me!
  created: '2009-03-12 14:18:02'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Frode, look at its \"o\" really large and you'll see how the inner contour
    is independent from the outer one, following a different design logic. To my eyes,
    the amazing thing is that they still click together: the glyphs feel very harmonious
    (definitely not like they're collaged together from non-matching contours).\r\n\r\nRather
    than just an interesting experiment, I see this as a huge cultural contribution.
    In my view, this marks an important step in the emancipation of the \"medium\"
    of digital type from its predecessors. Today we don't design \"strokes\", we design
    separate contours, and I think Legato demonstrates very vividly &ndash; and very
    beautifully &ndash; what kind of impact that can have on a new* way of seeing,
    and making, type. \r\n* \"New\" not in a destroying-all-that's-old-for-the-sake-of-it
    sense, and not in a \"we do this because we can\" way; but in an open-minded,
    constructive and practicable way. It's not a Po-Mo experiment; it actually works/reads
    very well!\r\n\r\n(God I love it.)"
  created: '2009-03-12 14:35:27'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "My controversial take on legato can be found here:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/16140\r\nand
    here:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/52083"
  created: '2009-03-12 15:04:55'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "<em>... I see this as a huge cultural contribution. In my view, this marks
    an important step in the emancipation of the \u201Cmedium\u201D of digital type
    from its predecessors. Today we don\u2019t design \u201Cstrokes\u201D, we design
    separate contours ...</em>\r\n\r\nVery well put.\r\nThe tools of the time have
    always influenced the aesthetic of type, not always for the good of legibility
    (BoDidoni - Etching/Engraving).\r\nLegato is consequently a product of the tool
    of our time (vector drawing software), but carefully acknowledges what the reader
    has learned in centuries to be legible."
  created: '2009-03-12 15:09:31'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"Legato is consequently a product of the tool of our time\"</em>\r\nAbsolutely,
    and it utilizes the possiblities of said tool in an extremely interesting way.
    I mean, what vector drawing software really allows us to do is to design individual
    contours, i.e. also really design the white. As was also mentioned in <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/16140\">this
    thread</a>, so many people talk about how the white is important, but for me personally,
    I never really \"saw\" it until I discovered Legato. In Legato, the white is not
    just the ground the black figure lies on &ndash; it interacts with the black.
    I don't quite understand yet what that may do for readability, but if nothing
    else, it's very exciting. The glyphs look a lot more\u2026 alive."
  created: '2009-03-12 15:31:13'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "It's always good to have an opportunity to think about Legato again.\r\n\r\nLately
    I've been thinking that the concept of stroke, while not applicable to Legato
    in the traditional way, can't be entirely dismissed either. Or, to put it another
    way, what we call stroke in other typefaces is actually a composite phenomenon
    made up of the relationship of edges not only to each other but also to a <em>line.</em>
    And while in Legato the relationship of the edges is liberated, the sense of the
    line remains and this is part of what makes it \u2018click together\u2019 or \u2018appear
    conventional\u2019. What is the line? In stroke-based writing and parachirographic
    type design, it is the path that the stroke follows, and hence the underlying
    structure of the letters. In Legato, the structure is undeniably there, despite
    the independent treatement of the inner and outer walls. In one sense, this shouldn't
    surprise us, since the shapes of our letters derive from a stroke-written alphabet
    -- unlike, say, cuneiform -- and hence they retain the line-structure even when
    subjected to novel design treatments (a more radical departure, in this regard,
    is something like Renner's original design for the Future lowercase r, which begins
    to break the line-structure). In another sense, though, Legato must make us pause,
    and ask just <em>what</em> establishes the line when the inner and outer lines
    lose their relationship to each other?"
  created: '2009-03-12 15:40:49'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > \u201CLegato is consequently a product of the tool of our time\u201D
    </cite>\r\n\r\n<cite> > what vector drawing software really allows us to do is
    to design individual contours</cite>\r\n\r\nI don't agree that this characteristic
    is inherently unique to vector-based digital type design. The ability to work
    with interior and exterior contours independently has pretty much always been
    there.\r\n\r\nWhen cutting a metal punch using counterpunches, one would pretty
    much cut the counterpunch completely separate from the punch, generally in advance
    of the punch itself. So interior counters are determined independent of the cutting
    of the outer contours. How one relates the cutting of those outer contours, then,
    is a choice, not necessarily determined by the tools.\r\n\r\nPhototype masters
    could just as easily have been made from a solid outer shape with an independent
    contour cut from white material and superimposed. Or, if cutting rubylith, there
    is nothing inherently limiting about the tools that prevents considering interior
    independent of exterior.\r\n\r\nI'm not arguing that Legato is not a product or
    phenomenon of our time, but I don't think you can put it down to the tools.\r\n\r\n--
    Kent."
  created: '2009-03-12 17:29:23'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"The ability to work with interior and exterior contours independently
    has pretty much always been there.\"</em>\r\n\r\nOh, good point. I guess that
    leaves us with the question why something like Legato wasn't already conceived
    of in metal, or any other one of those \"older\" medial contexts. Or are there
    any pre-digital typefaces that attempt something like Legato?\r\n\r\nTo remain
    on the level of tools/media for a second, I'd at least suggest it's easier to
    do this in vectors, and more flexible &ndash; as in, less laborious to quickly
    try out many variants and new ideas, and to play with the shapes; so that, while
    the digital medium isn't the only one to allow for such treatments, it may well
    be more conducive to them.\r\n\r\nOn the level of the broader cultural context,
    my theory* is that for something like Legato to emerge, PoMo craziness had to
    happen,** and pass, to allow for the new medium to truly start searching for its
    own and inherently new \"visual vocabulary\" &ndash; which will be independent
    from the established one to a degree, but not so narcissistic as to be anti-usability.
    Which FWIW is a classic feature of medial paradigm shifts.\r\n\r\n* Which is always
    in a state of (re-)construction, and doesn't claim to be \"right\".\r\n\r\n**
    Which of course, in turn, goes back to the availability, and flexibility, of digital
    tools; so I guess that goes to show how intrinsically connected visual shapes
    are both to the tools/media they're shaped by, and to their overall cultural context."
  created: '2009-03-12 17:57:57'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "<em>When cutting a metal punch using counterpunches, one would pretty much
    cut the counterpunch completely separate from the punch, generally in advance
    of the punch itself. So interior counters are determined independent of the cutting
    of the outer contours.</em>\r\n\r\nYep. Good point. And this plays an important
    role in the process and progress from, let\u2019s say, venetian to transitional
    style.\r\n\r\nBut, I think the digital tools offer possibilities to experiment
    with construction in a way formally not available, numeric precision for example.
    So it may be not about the emancipation of the countershape from the shape in
    general, but how it\u2019s done.\r\n\r\nScan from FontShop\u2019s Inspiration
    July 2004:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Legato_Inspiration_Juli04_5476.jpg]"
  created: '2009-03-12 18:31:52'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Don't get me wrong: I'm on board for the thesis that there's something about
    Legato that may be unique to this cultural moment.\r\n\r\nBut I still can't accept
    that digital tools are a driving factor.\r\n\r\n<cite> > I\u2019d at least suggest
    it\u2019s easier to do this in vectors, and more flexible \u2013 as in, less laborious
    to quickly try out many variants and new ideas,</cite>\r\n\r\nAltaira, only insofar
    as there is an overall acceleration of the heuristic try-it-and-see process.\r\n\r\nBut,
    for example, replicating what I'm interpreting in Jan's image -- the -0.5\xB0
    / +4.5\xB0 experiment -- would be no big deal in a non-digital environment. I'm
    thinking phototype more than metal, in this case. Draw two ovals (using compass
    and french curves for instance), put 'em down on a table and rotate to your heart's
    desire until you get just the right relationship. Not *that* big a deal. Pretty
    flexible.\r\n\r\nWhen they're just right, take a photograph, make a film master,
    arrange some test words and phrases, see what they look like. True, getting them
    into an actual font and on to plates and a press for real printed samples, maybe
    a bit more work.  But really, digital tools aren't such a quantum shift as to
    make something like Legato inconceivable in a previous technological environment
    -- from the standpoint of working methods and technique.\r\n\r\nI think it's more
    about a zeitgeist/gestalt thing, not technology, tools, or materials.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-12 20:07:34'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > numeric precision for example. </cite>\r\n\r\nNumeric rigidity,
    perhaps, but I don't know about \"precision\" per se. \r\n\r\nLet me point out
    that Linotype brass machining was capable of tolerances down to one-quarter of
    a thousandth of an inch. Much finer than a single unit in a 1000-unit Postscript
    em at anything under 288 pt sizes. \r\n\r\nThere are curves in Linotype working
    drawings from the 1940s that are tricky to replicate with beziers. And having
    done so, those curves are going to get obliterated at 12-point output in a way
    that they aren't in metal.\r\n\r\nAll I'm saying is that numerical precision is
    a tricky notion. Anyone who's worked with rotated ovals and then tried to get
    bezier extrema points to maintain those precise curves will understand what I'm
    talking about."
  created: '2009-03-12 20:20:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Aas_4500.jpg]\r\nI'm sure there have
    been yet other \"emancipated countershape\" types before Legato.\r\nBut the effect
    in Legato is relatively understated. Evert was a beautiful and subtle draftsman,
    and made it central to his designs--few could have successfully executed a concept
    such as Cocon."
  created: '2009-03-12 20:33:53'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"only insofar as there is an overall acceleration of the heuristic try-it-and-see
    process\"</em>\r\nI believe the \"liberation\" from costly, material, long-winded
    and involved processes in the type design and testing workflow that the digital
    environment has brought about has definitely cultivated an atmosphere of \"freedom\"
    in experimentation. \r\nIt's not only what a given tool can or can't do that matters,
    but rather what it <em>suggests</em> doing, or makes easy to do. I'm sure somebody
    could <em>technically</em> have drawn something like Legato using a pen on parchment,
    but then they didn't. \r\nTools influence thinking. And yes they influence heuristics,
    not just production. Ideas are born in friction and dialogue with tools, and materials.
    A pen is more conducive to drawing single strokes, while two contours with nodes
    and handles on them are posing the question more overtly if they should be treated
    as two sides of the same \"line\", or more independently.\r\n\r\n<em>\"replicating
    what I\u2019m interpreting in Jan\u2019s image \u2014 the -0.5\xB0 / +4.5\xB0
    experiment \u2014 would be no big deal in a non-digital environment\"</em>\r\nExcept
    of course Bloemsma didn't just rotate the contours and voil\xE0. I still can't
    figure out what exactly he did, but to me it looks like some serious node tweakage
    going on. I'm still not saying this wouldn't have been technically possible in
    a non-digital workflow, but I personally don't see how anyone would arrive at
    such a solution with non-digital tools (notwithstanding the fact I'm a beginner
    in this, and might just not be seeing things).\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/legato-o_4959.gif]\r\n\r\nI
    tend to agree it's probably more about an overall cultural context than just the
    tools taken by themselves. But I'm suspecting that's more of a rhetorical/logical
    difference, since I believe that this same cultural context is itself heavily
    influenced by the tools/possibilities at the disposal of those people who make
    publicly visible things, and by the solutions found by them via the tools/possibilities
    &ndash; in a rather involved circular relationship.\r\n\r\n<em>\"I\u2019m sure
    there have been yet other \u201Cemancipated countershape\u201D types before Legato.\"</em>\r\nLots.
    Display faces, and Po-Mo experiments. \r\nWhat I was trying to get at was that
    Legato doesn't just emancipate the counterspace for the fun of it, but actually
    ends up being beautifully readable, which makes it such an amazing fusion of novelty
    and usability. Are there any <em>text</em> faces that did this previously? (Serious
    question, I'm ready to be educated. :-) )"
  created: '2009-03-12 22:21:47'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Are there any text faces that did this previously?\r\n\r\nI don't think
    there are any other faces that have done what Jan's very helpful graphic shows:
    squared off rounds, with a forward slant outside and a back slant inside.\r\n\r\nThis
    is innovative, but to my eyes rather ungainly and awkward, and though readable,
    also no breakthrough on readability. To me Legato is very interesting, without
    really being a successful design. \r\n\r\nSomething which has a resemblance in
    some ways is Fedra. It also has somewhat squared off rounds, and subtle differences
    between the inner and outer outlines. To me it is a fresh and very successful
    design, both in aesthetics and readability. \r\n\r\nI don't see Legato as a significant
    breakthrough for the future of type design. Note for a start that Bloemsma's theory
    of Legato is not Hrant's theory. Bloemsma was concerned to get 'flow' from one
    letter forward to the next, and correct the tendency of Roman letters to turn
    into a picket fence--which is indeed a real and important problem. \r\n\r\nThe
    name 'Legato' clearly indicates this goal. Bloemsma wasn't concerned so much with
    'notan', the balance of black and white, as with forward movement and coherence
    of word image, which he thought was harmed by the dominance of verticals.  \r\n\r\nFurther,
    having the inner and outer outlines follow different patterns, and not follow
    the pen is as old as Jenson. The modifications are generally more subtle than
    in the case of Legato, though as Kent noted already Dwiggins was willing to go
    further than his predecessors, in consciously changing inner outlines to make
    a tension between inner and outer shapes. The innovation here in Legato is to
    me not any innovation in notan or in departing from the written stroke, or in
    having inner and outer shapes different. Instead, it is the innovative stress
    pattern that Bloemsma himself points to in the diagram that Jan reproduces. \r\n\r\nBloemsma's
    experiment is intriguing because it was innovative, and he carried it though with
    great subtlety and control. But personally I think in the end it doesn't work.
    The \"s\" is particularly awkward and heavy to my eyes. \r\n\r\nI don't think
    I've ever seen it here in the US in print. Have any graphic designers taken it
    up in Europe? It might just be ahead of its time, as Hrant argues, with some great
    breakthrough on notan. But it may also just be a fascinating but unsuccessful
    experiment, which is my suspicion. "
  created: '2009-03-13 02:24:30'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "What I love about Legato is not so much the look of the typeface itself (although
    I think there is beauty in it) but the idea behind it. The top-heavy Antique Olive-like
    thing may have been Bloemsma\u2019s personal taste or an ideal idea of his, but
    apart from that I wonder what he would have come up with next.\r\nIf Legato is
    a successful design or not isn\u2019t the question. The question is if Bloemsma\u2019s
    way was a new one with potential for a general new approach to designing type
    or not."
  created: '2009-03-13 02:33:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Nick, thanks for posting the Artefact image: this is a good example of a
    design in which the way in which relationship between the inner and outer walls
    is ''emancipated'' in a way that breaks the sense of line: the letters, while
    still recognisable, devolve into light and heavy shapes, disrupting the commonly
    acknowledged structures. If this is contrasted to the approach in Legato, one
    can see that Evert always maintained the familiar structures, even as he manipulated
    their edges and, hence, the space in and around them.'
  created: '2009-03-13 03:05:48'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Altaira -- I'm playing Devil's advocate. In other circumstances, I've actually
    argued your point.\r\n\r\n<cite> > A pen is more conducive to drawing single strokes,
    while two contours with nodes and handles on them are posing the question more
    overtly if they should be treated as two sides of the same \u201Cline\u201D, or
    more independently.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, but what then is a metal punch and graver
    more conducive to? And what is an x-acto knife and sheet of rubylith more conducive
    to? These have been other type design tools and materials at other points in time.
    (If you ever have the chance, you should try to witness Dave Farey cutting letters
    in rubylith. He used to demonstrate this regularly at conferences & gatherings,
    but I don't know if he does it any more. Maybe someone's got footage somewhere.)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-13 12:36:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">If Legato is a successful design or not isn\u2019t the question. The question
    is if Bloemsma\u2019s way was a new one with potential for a general new approach
    to designing type or not.\r\n\r\nWell, I don't see why we can't look at both questions.
    If it wasn't successful--and I don't here mean commercial success--then I think
    there's a higher bar to make the case that it's a breakthrough, to be followed.
    I don't see what the general new approach is, if not the changed stress, which
    I don't think works. \r\n\r\nHrant sees some kind of breakthrough in balancing
    black and white is a more readable way. I don't see that, and if that's not the
    breakthrough, what is? \r\n\r\nIf it is the breakthrough, then show me another
    example, or create one, and I'll be convinced. Kris Sowersby did a Legato-influenced
    sans that I think was more successful aesthetically than Legato, but I don't think
    it used the forward stress of the black, which is the distinctive design idea
    of Legato. --A back-slant of the white is, of course, a characteristic of old
    style type. \r\n\r\nI agree it is very sad that Bloemsma is not around to further
    his innovative ideas, and it seems he was much loved by those who knew him.  "
  created: '2009-03-13 12:37:02'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: "Every now and again threads appear on Typophile that make me wish there were
    a book form of this website...\r\n\r\nI learn so much here!"
  created: '2009-03-13 13:46:40'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"Yes, but what then is a metal punch and graver more conducive to?\"</em>\r\nHeh,
    Kent, I had a sentence in there that read something like, \"I don't know enough
    about the processes of punchcutting et al. to bring them into this equation\",
    but I deleted it because I thought I was writing too much anyway. :-Y\r\nCertainly
    a direct/logical assumption would be that punches and gravers are not especially
    conducive to adhering to a rigid \"stroke\" based model &ndash; but then I don't
    really understand why the latter has been followed for so long even with those
    tools. Maybe because culturally, there's still been a traditionalist adhesion
    to the pen, a dominating conservatism. And that seems to change a bit recently,
    I assume due to the [tool-/visuals-inspired] visual/cultural shift we've been
    going through.\r\n\r\nRegarding how Dwiggins designed counterspace: It'd be very
    interesting if somebody could maybe put up some pictures/samples or post some
    links? I've seen the hmnu counters in Caledonia, which you cite/show in the Whitman
    specimen, but not much more that would clearly show this approach of his.\r\n\r\nBy
    the way, one thing I've found quite striking about showing Legato to people not
    obsessed with type has been that, not only do they tend not to realize what's
    going on with the contours (which probably means it's so low-key that it's definitely
    not too innovative to work in text), but some actually see a hand-written/\"calligraphic
    ductus\" in it &ndash; the very same thing it breaks! I wonder if that has something
    to do with John's \"line\" idea. Maybe Legato strikes that fine line (ignore bad
    pun) where its black and white aren't yet perceived as totally independent black
    and white \"areas of space\", but the \"stroke\" isn't really there anymore either?
    Hmm.\r\n\r\n<em>\"\u2026though readable, also no breakthrough on readability\"</em>\r\nWilliam,
    considering it has no serifs, to my eyes it's quite amazingly readable for longish
    text, which I think may very well come down to the way it handles the white. I
    have an idea about that brewing\u2026 but have to get some work out of the way
    first. But then maybe Hrant will join in.\r\n\r\nSpeaking of Fedra (which I agree
    is a great design), I must say the interplay between the contours doesn't strike
    me as nearly as distinctive a feature in Fedra as it is in Legato. If anything,
    it's extremely subtle, to the point where I wonder if it was as much a driving
    force behind the making of Fedra as it was in Legato.\r\n\r\n<em>\"Kris Sowersby
    did a Legato-influenced sans that I think was more successful aesthetically than
    Legato\"</em>\r\nOh really? What's it called?"
  created: '2009-03-13 13:50:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "It was called Karbon. I found the thread, but the link to the sample is dead,
    and Kris has taken it down from his web site. Hrant was over the moon about it.
    \r\n\r\nI think I see some influence of it in his [[http://www.klim.co.nz/custom_serrano.php|Seranno]],
    but that is a different design, with less of a Legato feel in it. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-13 13:53:41'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Nina, about some people seeing a calligraphic ductus in Legato, see the post
    I referenced above: http://typophile.com/node/16140 (my 25 November 2005 3:04
    pm post).\r\n\r\nI wrote there as well: \"it is possible that fundamental\u2014rather
    than incidental\u2014norm-violations, such as those introduced in Bloemsma\u2019s
    Legato, where the violations are neither additive or subtractive (or based on
    sampling, like for instance Fudoni), might lead to something that is advantageous
    from a \u2019heightened readability\u2019 point of view.\" So I think what is
    unique about Legato is that it's norm violations are fundamental rather than incidental.\r\n\r\nThe
    25 November 2005 3:04 pm post tries to suggest why I think this is advantageous
    from a readability or perceptual processing in reading point of view as well.\r\n\r\nI
    think the vector-based paradigm catalyses and facilitates such interventions and
    initiatives, however I agree with Kent that. In digital fonts it is still the
    font and not the outline that is designed. A font is designed by defining shapes
    and counter-shapes through vector manipulation. The vector is not the intentional
    object of design. When it's mathematics or geometry become the object of design,
    I think type design fails."
  created: '2009-03-13 14:02:02'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > Are there any <em>text</em> faces that did this previously? (Serious
    question, I\u2019m ready to be educated. :-) )</cite>\r\n\r\nOkay, this is separate
    from the pre-/post-digital tools debate. \r\n\r\nI think Cyrus Highsmith's [[http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/Quiosco|Quiosco]]
    demonstrates the same kind of independence of interior/exterior contours. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Quiosco-nop_6549.png]\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\nI
    can't swear that it is strictly \"previous\" to Legato. Certainly not by much.
    The first appearance of Quiosco was 2002 in <a href=\"http://www.fontbureau.com/projects/LaPrensaGrafica\"><cite>La
    Prensa Gr\xE1fica</cite></a>. I believe that the published date of Legato is 2004.
    Who knows how long he was working on it or when he started.\r\n\r\nI'm pretty
    sure Cyrus knew Evert, and most likely respected him. But I don't know if there
    were any specific influences either direction. As I've said, I believe this is
    more of a zeitgeist thing.\r\n\r\nCyrus's stated influence in this direction was
    Dwiggins.\r\n\r\n-- K."
  created: '2009-03-13 14:45:36'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Altaira -- Just noticed your request for more Dwiggins. Ha, there must be
    plenty scattered around Typophile from through the years. People are probably
    tired of hearing me wax on about WAD. Try searching for \"M-formula.\" There was
    a \"Chunky\" thread, I think. Also, that \"Cut and Curved\" thread of Eben's from
    last year. Florian can probably help you out. ;-)\r\n\r\nI've got plenty more,
    if that doesn't sate your appetite or give you the kind of specificity you're
    looking for. But we'll end up wandering far afield of Frode's interest in Legato.
    ;-)\r\n\r\n-- K."
  created: '2009-03-13 14:52:31'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "On the readability of Legato, which Peter again notes, I do agree with many
    here that Legato is unusually readable for a sans. And I think a lot has to do
    with Boemsma's success in breaking up the picket fence. But other stressed sans
    do it, including Lydian, Optima and Cyrus Highsmith's [[http://fontbureau.com/fonts/Amira|Amira]]--which
    also violates pen rules systematically. \r\n\r\nNina, I think that what you report
    about people reacting saying it looks more pen drawn is actually correct, in that
    the modulations are there as in a pen-drawn stroke, even though Bloemsma's modulations
    violate pen rules. For example, Carl Crossgrove's Beorcana is quite readable and
    has a strong pen-drawn quality.  \r\n\r\n\r\nSo while I appreciate the readability
    of Legato, I don't think the forward stress of the black that is distinctive to
    Legato is the only way or best way aesthetically to achieve what it does by way
    of readability. "
  created: '2009-03-13 15:16:20'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Peter, I have tried reading the post you referenced again, but I have to
    admit it's still a bit over my head. :-/\r\n\r\nLike, would you mind getting back
    to this?\r\n<em>\"And he has done this not by starting from translation, but from
    an introduction of inner form / outer form counter-rotations in an expansion based
    context.\"</em>\r\nI'm guessing I don't understand the concept of expansion here.
    Trying to reverse engineer to a degree what Bloemsma did, when I rotate the contours
    back in that \"o\", there's definitely still some contrast there. I wonder where
    this comes from. Is it possible/likely to make this with a pen?\r\n\r\n<em>(Image:
    \"o\" from Legato Regular, outer contour rotated counterclockwise by 4.5\xB0,
    inner contour rotated clockwise by 0.5\xB0)</em>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/legato-o-rotated_6206.gif]\r\nI'm
    now reading up on the connection between notan and readability. Great input.\r\n\r\nBy
    the way, do you (or anyone else for that matter) happen to have the first link
    archived that you cite in that post, \"About Legato\" from Evert Bloemsma's web
    site? <a href=\"http://web.archive.org/web/20050227214903/http://www.evertbloemsma.nl/legato/about_legato/about_legato.asp\">Archive.org
    has it</a>, but without the images. Looks like there was a PDF version too (which
    hasn't been archived).\r\n\r\n<em>\"In digital fonts it is still the font and
    not the outline that is designed.\"</em>\r\nI was not trying to suggest that \"we
    design vectors\". My point was probably that the movable, flexible, immaterial,
    and &ndash;most importantly in this context&ndash; independent digital outline,
    which has become the \"interface\" through which the designer shapes a font (and
    thus, a metaphor of sorts), has a notable effect on how fonts are seen/thought_of;
    though not necessarily in the way of total identification of the product with
    its toolwise representation.\r\n\r\nKent, thanks for posting Quiosco. That does
    look strange close up! I was surprised to see how well it prints/reads. Although
    it feels much less radical than Legato; the \"independentness\" of the inner/outer
    contours seems to mainly come into play in details (like the way he \"thinned\"
    the joins), while some important stems (like say the left one of the \"n\") are
    still vertical both inside and out, while those in Legato look pretty\u2026 twisted
    :-). Am I not seeing something?\r\nOh, and cheers for the WAD keywords. Will do
    some reading up!\r\n\r\n<em>\"But we\u2019ll end up wandering far afield of Frode\u2019s
    interest in Legato. ;-)\"</em>\r\nWell he hasn't intervened\u2026 yet. I hope
    he will protest if this veers off too much for his interests\u2026 meanwhile,
    at least I am shamelessly capitalizing on his question for my own learning. ;-)\r\n\r\n<em>\"the
    modulations are there as in a pen-drawn stroke, even though Bloemsma\u2019s modulations
    violate pen rules\"</em>\r\nSo are you suggesting that it's the concept of modulation
    in and of itself that makes for its heightened readability, and not necessarily
    how it's executed &ndash; pen-conformingly or not?"
  created: '2009-03-13 16:36:53'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "I guess it depends on how you want to go about defining your \"independentness.\"
    I mean, ultimately, if a design is successful the various contours are going to
    be bound together in some fashion. \r\n\r\nYes, in Quiosco there are still straight
    parallel stems. I was looking more at the interaction/independence of the inner
    and outer curve of the n arch -- these have a radically different thrust from
    one another, creating an interesting tension, which was the focus of Cyrus's formal
    exploration. (Note also the non-parallel right stem that results from this tension.)\r\n\r\n<cite>
    > while those in Legato look pretty\u2026 twisted :-). </cite>\r\n\r\nNon-parallel,
    swelling or flaring stems are nothing terribly innovative in and of themselves,
    of course. \r\n\r\nI believe in this case they arise out of Bloemsma explicitly
    stated aversion to straight lines. Which makes his aesthetic rather ironically
    non-digital -- since you could argue that straight, square, plumb, and parallel
    are in large measure inherent in digital tools.\r\n\r\nFor another interesting
    comparison, take a look at what Frutiger was doing in Icone (ca. 1980). Legato
    on the left, Icone on the right:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Legato-Icone_n_5573.png]"
  created: '2009-03-13 17:58:31'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[Nina] Like, would you mind getting back to this?\r\n\r\nThe analysis is
    far too compact. I'll try to get back to it on Sunday. \r\n\r\nHere is a stitched
    screen grab of the original Bloemsma page (be sure to scroll horizontally to see
    the additional content on the right):[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bloemsma_legato_5636.jpg]"
  created: '2009-03-13 18:34:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It's a nicely drawn irregular sans.\r\nWhat makes it unique is the amount
    of BS that's been attached to it.\r\n\r\nAs Nina has demonstrated by reversing
    Bloemsma's rotation cue, there is the tell-tale residue of skew, confirming the
    face's chirographic construction. So basically it is a humanist sans, with the
    counters made slightly more symmetrical. I think Bloemsma designed primarily with
    hand and eye, and that the detailed rationalization is post facto, and not very
    convincing. Type founders have been thinning out the thickest part of the chirographic
    stroke from Jenson to Quiosco (compare \"p\"s).\r\n\r\nI suspect that he had the
    general idea that an irregular sans could be drawn with some tension, by chafing
    against the usual precepts of simple geometry and chirography, and that there
    might be some readability benefit in that. But the face still has a predominantly
    chirographic stress, as can be seen by flipping the \"o\"--Legato above, Maiandra
    in the middle, and most subtle of all, Productus, below.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ooos_6215.jpg]\r\n\r\nLegato
    has something of the feel of an old-fashioned humanist sans, say Goudy Sans; its
    slightly uncrisp execution, and the fact that the letter shapes themselves are
    not particularly novel, might contribute to its lack of popularity, although it
    does have the even width and semi-condensed proportions of the contemporary sans
    genre descended from Meta.\r\n\r\nI'm not knocking the face, just questioning
    the theory."
  created: '2009-03-13 18:38:07'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: Oh, I have a copy of that PDF about Legato from Peter's screen grab of Bloemsma's
    page. I don't think I can post a PDF here. If you send me an e-mail off-line,
    Altaira, I'll pass it to you.
  created: '2009-03-13 19:24:22'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"As Nina has demonstrated by reversing Bloemsma\u2019s rotation cue,
    there is the tell-tale residue of skew, confirming the face\u2019s chirographic
    construction.\"</em>\r\n\r\n1) Is every font that has this \"skew\" to its \"stroke\"
    by definition chirographically constructed / constructable?\r\n\r\n2) Is that
    a Yes to my question if those \"de-rotated\" contours I showed could be produced
    with a pen / single stroke? (I suck at calligraphy, so I won't be able to confirm
    or disprove this myself.)\r\n\r\nNick, even if your answer is yes to question
    2, I don't think that could confirm the face is \"chirographically constructed\".
    I think the subsequent de-linking and individual rotation of the two contours
    matters a lot in this design. & that means the font that resulted in the end cannot
    really have been \"chirographically constructed\" &ndash; <em>at most,</em> it
    <em>may</em> have been \"deconstructed\" from an assumed chirographically-informed
    base structure. (While of course we're really only looking at one glyph here.)\r\n\r\nPeter,
    Kent: Thank you! Kent, I've dropped you an email.\r\nI wonder, William, what you
    make of Bloemsma's illustration of how Legato's construction principle and contrast
    helps readability &ndash; that very page seems to make a lot of sense to me, and
    I'm beginning to suspect it's really about a <em>combination</em> of (a) breaking
    up the \"picket fence\" (in terms of doing away with straight verticals, and generally
    introducing more \"movement\"), which tends to raise perceived coherence of letter
    sequences, <em>and</em> (b) its funky contrast/stress, which makes it even less
    \"static\" (which I'm actually no big fan of personally, aesthetically speaking,
    but it's very interesting to see what it can / may be able to do). \r\nThat bottom-most
    illustration in Peter's screen grab is especially telling I think; some of the
    text seems to be cut off: \"The illustration below compares the sanserifs Univers
    (emphasizing vertical parts), FF Balance (emphasizing horizontal parts) and FF
    Legato (emphasizing diagonals from the upper left to the lower right). Each one
    of them builds a different rhythm, creates a different interaction between the
    characters; a different <em>continuity</em>.\"\r\n\r\nThe Icone comparison is
    interesting. I'd like to get back to this but need to look at it in depth. (Fortunately,
    I just got myself a copy of this wonderful new Frutiger monograph today!)"
  created: '2009-03-13 21:39:58'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "<em>But we\u2019ll end up wandering far afield of Frode\u2019s interest in
    Legato</em>\r\nI'm still here!\r\n\r\nI get the importance in Hrant's observation:
    Moving from the simulation of old tools towards actually taking advantage of the
    digital tools and methods to create something new, though I'm not sure how it's
    a revolution in terms of readability."
  created: '2009-03-13 22:06:17'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "As a side note (but maybe not really), the Icone comparison is quite interesting,
    also with respect to the relations between design and media. In the monograph
    (Adrian Frutiger: Typefaces. The complete works), Frutiger explains how the design
    of Icone (1978, published 1980) was a direct response to the new digital medium,
    although in terms of striving to offset its negative effects (digital distortion):
    \"Instead of 'lines' that could easily be defined geometrically, [Icone] is characterized
    by a rather 'wild' stroke design. Curves and asymmetrically flaring terminals
    are among its key characteristics. There are no traditional serifs, which would
    hinder slanting.\" (My translation, I have the German edition.)\r\n\r\nIcone on
    the left, Legato on the right:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/icone-legato-t_4952.gif]\r\nNow
    while there seems to be a bit of similarity between these glyphs, to me they also
    show the notable difference in the thinking behind their designs: Icone's \"t\"
    is \"flowing\" throughout, and harmoniously. Both sides of the stem are curved,
    and stretching the imagination a bit, the glyph could still be seen as \"painted\"
    - and it was not Frutiger's intention to depart from the chirographic model, he
    just \"gummied\" the contours (in fact calling Icone \"gummy type\") to make it
    less vulnerable to distortion. In Legato, the \"t\" has a lot more tension between
    the contours, a much more strongly differentiated \"pull\" of the curves - which
    underpins the notion of the tension between the (more) independent contours being
    a driving force behind its design."
  created: '2009-03-14 00:08:47'
- author:
    name: daniele capo
    picture: 113718
  body: "Kent, can I have that pdf too? I give you my e.mail.\r\n\r\nFrom a geometrical
    point of view I think the operation on the contour of the 'o' is not rotation
    but skewing (I think it is what Nick Shinn wrote). In that way the upper right
    and lower left regions of the letter are thickened. \r\nThe trick with black/white
    is, I think, that you have two opposite movements: the black is leaning forward
    while the inner white is slightly leaning backward. Maybe this \u201Ccounter-movements\u201D
    makes the letter appear upright while it is slanted, I don\u2018t know. But the
    effect is a diagonal stress forward (maybe the interconnection wanted by Bloemsma)
    without being an \u2018italic\u2019. I suppose that stress (that is the opposite
    of the red dashed line in the image above) is responsible for the \u201Ccalligraphic
    ductus\u201D seen by non type obsessed persons (a more natural 'flow')\r\n\r\nLooking
    at the t that Nina posted, I see the same stress (look at the bottom-left part)
    obtained in the same way: the outer contour is pulled along a diagonal, while
    the inner contour remains straight.\r\n\r\nWhat I find interesting is that the
    conceptualization Bloemsma did is actually based on the interaction of surfaces
    (black area against white area), that is a conceptualization not done in terms
    of lines (the so-called anti-chirographic point of view). Obviously you can re-tell
    the whole story in terms of marking tools and strokes.\r\n\r\nFor the discussion
    on the tools. I think that vector drawing softwares, so based on the metaphor
    of drawing board, with splines etc., are actually a conceptual obstacle for thinking
    in terms of surfaces: you are forced to manipulate dematerialized \u2018curves\u2019
    (that is good mathematically, instead.) "
  created: '2009-03-14 09:42:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">what you make of Bloemsma\u2019s illustration of how Legato\u2019s construction
    principle and contrast helps readability \r\n\r\nI think that the modulation and
    also relatively wide spacing helps readability, but I don't buy his argument that
    the \"forward motion\" of the stress helps particularly. After all, italics have
    this forward motion, and are generally less readable. His innovation keeps the
    letters looking upright with some of this italic effect, but I suspect it's not
    much of a benefit. In other words, if you redrew Legato with just a normal old
    style stress, I suspect you wouldn't lose anything as far as readablity. \r\n\r\nAnother
    interesting example, also obviously influenced by Dwiggins, is John Downer's [[http://fontbureau.com/fonts/SamSans|SamSans]],
    which was until recently the 'Featured Face' here on Typophile. That has a lot
    of angular inner outlines and smooth outer, and modulation. It is a little narrow
    for my liking--though a narrow informal sans was indeed his brief--but I think
    extremely readable for being a narrow sans. Interestingly, his \"e\" has some
    of the forward/backward motion of Legato--it is from 1993!--but not generally. "
  created: '2009-03-14 18:07:59'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"I don\u2019t buy his argument that the \u201Cforward motion\u201D of
    the stress helps particularly. After all, italics have this forward motion, and
    are generally less readable.\"</em>\r\nBut you're comparing two much different
    implementations of the idea of \"forward motion\". Italics have a lot of other
    features that (I'd expect) influence their readability (the slant angle, and the
    classically narrower widths, to name but two). Also, Bloemsma isn't just talking
    about \"'forward motion' of the stress\" &ndash; he's defining that more closely
    as the tension between the black and the intra-/inter-letter space, that breaks
    up the isolation of individual letters; and I have no reason so far not to believe
    (a) what he says, (b) my eyes.\r\n\r\n<em>\"In other words, if you redrew Legato
    with just a normal old style stress, I suspect you wouldn\u2019t lose anything
    as far as readablity.\"</em>\r\nNow *that* would be the ultimate thing to try.
    I'd contest it. Hell, I'd bet a bottle of decent wine that you would (lose something
    in terms of readability, that is). Except even that surely wouldn't yield a clear
    and uncontested result (who's going to do it, and how exactly, and how are you
    going to test the results \"independently\"?).\r\n\r\nSamSans: I don't know, this
    looks a *lot* more chirographically-informed to me than Legato. Yes there are
    some dissonances between the contours (like in the \"s\"), but they're much more
    gentle, and follow a \"logically\"-appearing, much more easily discernible pattern."
  created: '2009-03-15 00:20:11'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Yeah doing the experiment of an old-style Legato would be an effort--but
    interesting. I'm not about to do it soon, though :) \r\n\r\nAs far as SamSans,
    yes it has the feel of the hand in it, in a good way I think, but also its lines
    have constant contradiction of what a pen would draw. \r\n\r\nI also don't buy
    the chirographic=bad boogyman of Hrant. I think the pen does some things that
    helped readability, and some that hurt. And since Jenson, type designers have
    been modifying those things that hurt. Departing from the pen isn't inherently
    good or bad. Our letter shapes are based on the broad pen, so going too far away
    is always tricky to pull off successfully. \r\n\r\nUltimately the test of whether
    Legato's unique stress pattern is a positive breakthrough is to do designs that
    follow it, but are more successful aesthetically than Legato. And if there is
    something else there having to do with notan, then develop that. Each person can
    have a go. I am just skeptical that this is a promising direction. "
  created: '2009-03-15 01:07:16'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: 'Nina, I was unable to get to my promised elaboration over the weekend, and
    I''m in a bit of a time crunch now, but can you let me know if the outlines and
    control points you show in the images above (12 March 2009 / 3:21 and 12 March
    2009 / 9:36) are your approximations or Bloemsma''s actual? '
  created: '2009-03-17 13:26:20'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Peter, the 12.Mar.2009 3.21pm image shows the actual \"o\" of Legato Regular
    \r\nas it appears in the font. The 13.Mar.2009 9.36am image is my approximation
    \r\nof rotating the contours back."
  created: '2009-03-17 13:53:47'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Note that the contours are slightly twisted or wrenched against one another
    (\"verdreht\" in Jan's FontShop image) rather than simply rotated. For example,
    the outer side points have a counter-clockwise rotation, whereas the outer top
    and bottom points are rotated clockwise. This kind of distortion of an ellipse
    might be achieved by some combination of skewing (slanting) and rotating. But
    I suspect Bloemsma just adjusted it my hand and eye until he got the effect he
    wanted. \r\n\r\nAlso, when I played with my semi-bold version (a free-bee from
    FontShop!) the line connecting outer top and bottom points are between 1.5 and
    2 degrees off vertical, not 5.5 degrees. Maybe the bold is different. The whole
    thing is very subtly done.      "
  created: '2009-03-17 14:11:48'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Ha. That would of course render my quick rotating experiment moot. \r\nI've
    been wondering about what looks like different direction of rotation between the
    outer side points and the upper/lower extrema. Still I read that \"verdreht\"
    as simply \"rotated\" (when two contours are \"verdreht\", it can mean they're
    individually rotated in opposing directions, not necessarily skewed in themselves,
    even though \"verdreht\" also means \"twisted\")."
  created: '2009-03-17 14:21:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I guess there's no simple description of what he did. Basically, his innovative
    concept is the black have forward diagonal stress and the white a backward diagonal
    stress, so that the diagonals dominate, but the character still looks upright.
    \r\n\r\nThe result, very masterfully pulled off, is readable, but also awkward
    looking. That wasn't a problem for him, evidently, as he said he wanted not to
    be constrained by a \"pleasant\" look. "
  created: '2009-03-17 14:41:36'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > The 13.Mar.2009 9.36am image is my approximation of rotating the
    contours back.</cite>\r\n\r\nBut you didn't reestablish extrema points, right?"
  created: '2009-03-17 15:02:04'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"But you didn\u2019t reestablish extrema points\"</em>\r\n\r\nIndeed
    I didn't &ndash; I was wary of messing with the curves. Should I have?"
  created: '2009-03-17 15:08:41'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "I also read verdreht as rotated, or turned, though I see some shearing from
    a straightword expansion with contrast-reduction base prior to the + & - turning
    of the outlines. I think the shearing is effected by moving left and right-side
    extremata up or down / top and bottom extremata left and right.\r\n\r\nBill, I
    think the result is awkward-looking only at display sizes and when gauged aesthetically.
    Optical-grammatically in the context of the word at continuous text sizes I think
    the concept makes great and unobtrusive functional sense. As well, my sense of
    how Bloemsma works is that he works more systematically than you seem to think.
    But that's what I'll try to show."
  created: '2009-03-17 15:40:44'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > Indeed I didn\u2019t \u2013 I was wary of messing with the curves.
    Should I have?</cite>\r\n\r\nNot necessarily. You're right, that probably would've
    compromised the curves in some way. \r\n\r\nIt just would've been interesting
    to see how the extrema align in the rotated version. Since many of us are used
    to seeing the points at the extrema, you have to look carefully to realize those
    points aren't and adjust your evaluation of the shapes accordingly. \r\n\r\nPlus,
    it might help draw out any pre-rotation adaptations to the ovals. (I mean that
    figuratively, not literally -- who knows how Bloemsma actually arrived at his
    final shapes.)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-17 16:12:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Peter, I think Bloemsma was extremely systematic, perhaps even unwisely so.
    But I suspect the system was in what he wanted visually, and not in doing the
    same mechanical steps on things. I don''t think you can get things to look the
    same by doing the same thing to different shapes. The eye is too complicated and
    changes what we see vs what''s on the page or screen in ways we don''t fully understand.
    So I would bet he just fiddled with the glyphs until he got that crossed diagonal
    effect he wanted. '
  created: '2009-03-17 19:25:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"though I\u2019m not sure how it\u2019s a revolution in terms of readability\"\r\n\r\nI
    think the jury is still out and may be for some time.\r\n\r\nWhat Bloesma did
    was execute a face that fit his personal philosophy and used his own skilled eye
    to produce it. We can spend days discussing success or failure to meet either
    readability improvement or even shake the chirographic mould. I don't know if
    we can come to a definitive agreement. Those who place Bloesma on the highest
    pedestal will convince themselves in the positive and those who are most skeptical
    will say nay. I personally see it as a successful typeface that is very well drawn
    and spaced but don't see it as anything earthshaking. I am not saying \"the emperor
    has new clothes\" but that he is not finer dressed than several other well drawn
    sans afoot.\r\nI don't see how chirography is even an issue. There are both good
    and bad faces done using typical stroke tool mentality. I think the more successful
    faces do a better job of fitting glyphs together as words regardless of stroke
    pattern, stress, or dependency on figure vs ground. I am a firm believer that
    figure and ground must form a more perfect union and give and take prominence
    to affect that union. Weight plays a larger issue in dominence as well. Bolder
    weights make ground more prominent than lighter weights. To this,Legato is a bit
    heaver than the average face generally.\r\nThe rotations and shifts made their
    presence pronounced during the PoMo deconstruction period. This is a natural extension
    but with a purpose to reconstruct a new form. I think Evert has done quite well
    with it but not reached the moon. Too bad he did not live long enough to push
    it where he intended. He may have found something extraordinary but we will never
    know.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-17 20:08:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Well put, Chris. My sentiments as well. '
  created: '2009-03-17 20:18:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Forensic typography!
  created: '2009-03-18 02:52:01'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Below is what I see in Legato. It makes no claim about Bloemsma's actual
    process; it aims to provide an analysis calculated to give an principled and informative
    understanding of form. It suggests an answer to the question \"what do you see
    when you look at Legato.\" The analysis involves a set of five quite straightforward
    transformations, for example from the first to the second the top and bottom extremata
    of the counter are moved closer together.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/legato_grab_4107.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nNina,
    if you can give me an illustrator file of the actual points and curves, I can
    redo this with Bloemsma's curves and points, instead of my hasty vector description
    (from your de-rotated image file) at the centre from which I worked backwards
    and forward.\r\n\r\nSorry Nick, I did some edits which put my post below your
    comment."
  created: '2009-03-18 02:55:07'
- author:
    name: mattmatthew
  body: "<em>Oh, good point. I guess that leaves us with the question why something
    like Legato wasn\u2019t already conceived of in metal, or any other one of those
    \u201Colder\u201D medial contexts.</em>\r\n\r\nI think it might just come down
    a simple question of time and technological context. Serifs have been around for
    over 500 years, and we have serifs in every form and shape imaginable. Trying
    to come up with a unique idea for a serif is extremely challenging.\r\n\r\nSan
    serifs however have been around for only a fraction of the time - they have not
    yet had the centuries to reflect and re-reflect upon. At the same time having
    so much media, knowledge, and instant gratification at our fingertips due to the
    advertising and design machine and the internet inundates us all every second
    of every day. The innovation and experimentation that happened before the middle
    of the 20th century came in smaller leaps, design knowledge and motivations passed
    along only as quickly or as broadly as it could be disseminated. With the internet
    we get tired of things quicker; absorb much more consciously and subconsciously;
    people perceive <i>what's hot</i> before it even gets hot. But the innovation
    also follows suit - with more to draw on where we've been, seeing the future path
    to take gets more convoluted for most - except for those blessed with a special
    perception or insight."
  created: '2009-03-18 08:35:47'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Wow, great! Thank you for posting this, Peter.\r\nPlease drop me a line at
    altairas_eye at mac dot com or let me know your email address here. I'll probably
    need to know which version of Illustrator you work with."
  created: '2009-03-18 09:33:31'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Getting back to Kent's request for \"de-rotated\" contours with the extrema
    points reestablished, here's this &ndash; apparently reinforcing what Peter showed
    in the third image in his thought-provoking analysis, i.e. skewing:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/derotated-legato_3976.gif]\r\n\r\nThe
    nodes are closer to lining up than in the original, but they're not lining up.\r\n(Please
    don't take this picture *too* literally; there probably are some fine irregularities
    due to the state of my FontLab skills.)"
  created: '2009-03-19 09:07:05'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: 'In case anybody''s still following this: I just mentioned this thread to
    a friend from my type design class and he said he had seen Bloemsma''s presentation
    of Legato at TypoBerlin in 2004, and spoke to him afterwards about the design
    process of Legato. Unfortunately he didn''t remember exactly, except that apparently
    Bloemsma mentioned <em>mirroring</em> the outer contour to make the inner one
    (at least in glyphs like the "o"). Which doesn''t contradict Peter''s formal analysis,
    and seems interesting in terms of the design process. I mean, mirroring one contour
    to make the other one does sound like a process deeply inspired by digital tools
    (if I may make that point one more time ;-) ).'
  created: '2009-03-22 20:23:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I don't think mirroring is especially digital, it happens a lot in natural
    media if you're working with tracing paper or carbon paper.\r\nScaling a curve
    is however much easier digitally than doing it photographically. \r\n\r\nWhat
    I sometimes do with the \"o\" is to play with all the handles till it looks good,
    then see if copying the top (or left), rotating 180\xB0 and pasting to itself,
    will make a better letter than doing the same with the bottom (or right).\r\n\r\nIt's
    not forensically meaningful to talk about de-rotating a skewed image, because
    various combination of skewing and rotation can be identical, when adjusted by
    unequal scaling along the x and y axes."
  created: '2009-03-22 21:42:54'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"I don\u2019t think mirroring is especially digital, it happens a lot
    in natural media if you\u2019re working with tracing paper or carbon paper.\"</em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    but of course in the digital workflow, actions such as mirroring can be directly
    applied to the actual font (as opposed to only playing a role in a pre-production
    form-finding process). In case that matters; I think it probably does."
  created: '2009-03-23 10:29:04'
- author:
    name: nepenthe
    picture: 109675
  body: "This is a fascinating research project. I was never that interested in Legato
    on account of the subtleties of its design\u2014it would need to be rendered at
    a very high ppm to resolve its design in any meaningful way, higher than I can
    print below about 11pt at 1200dpi. I had printed it out from a sample sheet at
    about 8 or 9pt and didn't find it particularly readable, or that the curves resolved
    well. The theory sure is interesting, though."
  created: '2009-03-23 13:50:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>In case that matters; I think it probably does.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think
    tracing flipped images was entirely restricted to \"form finding\". For instance,
    if one had drawn a nice \"b\", it could be traced and used for p, d, and q. Similarly,
    the structure of the T, with symmetrical serifs. And so on.\r\n\r\nI used to produce
    finished art on Letraset marker paper, not tracing paper, but translucent enough
    when on a light table, and frequently traced over previously inked letters, with
    a light pencil, a precise component that I would re-use for a new letter."
  created: '2009-03-23 17:20:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I used to get film negs and flip and rotate them and piece them together
    or cut tracings using ambnerlith and a swivelknife.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-23 17:54:27'
- author:
    name: robster
  body: "Random comments:\r\n\r\nKarbon has not been abandoned, he's still working
    on it.\r\n\r\nThere's an interview with Frutiger by Erik Spiekermann (not the
    one currently shown at the Technical Museum in Berlin and on YouTube) where he
    talks about the inner form having always been more important than the outer form
    to him. I'll have to ask Spiekermann if I can translate it and put it online.\r\nHere's
    a small preview:\r\nhttp://www.pixentral.com/show.php?picture=1ZNtJ2mpIjLkkEHoRQ2RZF5X71mDm1"
  created: '2009-06-04 03:26:31'
- author:
    name: robster
  body: "Actually it's right here (German only):\r\nhttp://www.typovideo.de/index.php?node_id=9&lang_id=1&scope=front&ds_target_id=739\r\n\r\nTo
    save the video right click here:\r\nhttp://www.typovideo.de/medialibary/Adrian_Frutiger.mp4"
  created: '2009-06-05 00:56:59'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>there is the tell-tale residue of skew, confirming the face\u2019s
    chirographic construction. So basically it is a humanist sans, with the counters
    made slightly more symmetrical.</em>\r\n\r\nI must say I agree with Nick.\r\n\r\nLegato
    is a very interesting design, but in essence <em>I</em> still see rather normal
    (chirographic) contrast with dito stress. I think we should be wary of over-analyzing
    things like this. I mean, it is almost getting mystical attributes ascribed to
    it. Yes, he did manage to get an interesting relation going between the inner
    and outer form. But it's quite apparent, especially if you look at the flipped
    o's, that the contrast / stress is actually not that different from standard contrast
    and stress, which also has this relation in one way or another."
  created: '2009-06-06 02:12:22'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "There is nothing mystical about a non-chirographic approach to contrast.
    \r\n\r\nI think Peter Enneson's analysis above shows it quite nicely: Legato <em>simulates</em>
    \"normal\" translation-based/chirographic stress, but it's getting there via different
    means, and as a result, violates the model it purports to follow. \r\nSo especially
    at small sizes, it may be tempting to think there's a standard, chiro-based pattern
    being followed, but looking at the design up close must reveal that Legato is
    based on a quite different concept of how to make a font have contrast. And the
    fact that it's sneaking it in quite subtly really helps it to be a lot easier
    to accept.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"standard contrast and stress\u2026 also has this relation
    [between the inner and outer form] in one way or another.\"</cite>\r\nIn traditional
    contrast models, the \"inner and outer form\" are tied together via the concept
    of a \"stroke\". Which makes all the difference."
  created: '2009-06-06 10:07:01'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Yes, but if you look at those o's in Nick Shinn's post of 13 march, you can
    see that the contrast/stress isn't that different from the classic model. Don't
    get me wrong, though, I think Legato is an excellent typeface, I just don't think
    it is as groundbreaking as some say it is.\r\n\r\nI guess I can just say I agree
    with Chris (his post of 17 march), since he put it better than I can. :)\r\n\r\nI
    also notice now that this is a slightly old thread that was bumped. ;)"
  created: '2009-06-06 15:06:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Jelmar,\r\n\r\nYou also have to examine the lack of true straight strokes
    in this face. The modulation allows the positive stroke to interact with not only
    the counters, but the space between glyphs. There is room to push this further.
    Perhaps someone else will since Everet has left us.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-06-06 16:34:41'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Ah yes, Chris, good that you mention it. The lack of straight lines <em>is</em>
    something that defines Bloemsma's work. I believe one of his teachers used to
    say that a straight line is a dead line.
  created: '2009-06-06 22:02:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I would not agree that it is dead but a straight line is a faster line than
    a curve so it may make itself known sooner than the rest of the glyph. If you
    want a glyph to gestalt at one time, then it may be best to avoid straights.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-06-06 22:38:31'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "I really like that the typeface can \"hold the legato character\" through
    all the weights. Look at the light weigth, how it \"says legato\". \r\n"
  created: '2009-06-07 10:40:00'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"you can see that the contrast/stress isn\u2019t that different from
    the classic model\"</cite>\r\n\r\nThe difference <em>is</em> very subtle &ndash;
    it's a bit like it's disguising what it's really doing. But a qualitative difference
    doesn't need to be very noticeable quantitatively to still be there. A whale looks
    a lot like a large fish, but nobody would argue it <em>is</em> a fish &ndash;
    it's built from a different basis.\r\n\r\nBTW, who were Bloemsma's teachers?"
  created: '2009-06-07 10:54:50'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: His teachers, I don't know exactly, but I know the straight line quote is
    from Jan Vermeulen.
  created: '2009-06-08 00:10:07'
- author:
    name: robster
  body: "At ilovetypography.com Kris Sowersby just says:\r\n<cite> \r\nAs his teacher
    Jan Vermeulen used to say: \u201CA straight line is a dead line\u201D. </cite>
    \r\n\r\nSo he probably said it regularly.\r\n\r\nWhy do you think the characters
    of Balance have the same widths in all levels of thickness?\r\n\r\nI wish there
    was something inbetween Legato Regular and Light, I find it a bit too bold for
    a regular."
  created: '2009-06-30 23:14:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Why do you think the characters of Balance\r\n> have the same widths in
    all levels of thickness?\r\n\r\nSo you can change the weight of [a snippet of]
    text without affecting linebreaks.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-28 05:43:00'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>&gt; I wish there was something inbetween Legato Regular and Light,
    I find it a bit too bold for a regular.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou know, I used to feel
    exactly the same \u2013 until I used it in a book for the first time. In good
    offset print, the weight of the Regular, at text sizes, seems perfect to my eye. "
  created: '2011-12-28 12:33:03'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "I discussion about Legato evolved in an other topic (http://typophile.com/node/79817?page=1).
    For consistency's sake I'm copying my last posts here so the discussion can continue
    in the right threat.\r\n\r\nI have read that review. I tend to agree with you
    there but then you're not blowing anything out of context in that review.\r\n\r\nMy
    main question now is how come type hasn't evolved since Legato. Honestly, now
    that I find myself looking at and talking about legato more often I would love
    to do a typeface like it and especially a serif one, but I still think it's more
    of an aesthetic design than something which truly brings type to another level.
    I quite agree with William here:\r\n\r\n> I don't see Legato as a significant
    breakthrough for the future of type design.\r\n> Note for a start that Bloemsma's
    theory of Legato is not Hrant's theory. Bloemsma\r\n> was concerned to get 'flow'
    from one letter forward to the next, and correct the\r\n> tendency of Roman letters
    to turn into a picket fence--which is indeed a real and\r\n> important problem.\r\n\r\nThere
    have been several typefaces tackling various specific problems. I don't feel like
    Legato solves all problems, or a single one problem tremendously better than before.\r\n\r\n>
    However: is there a single Sans font that can take\r\n> most of the credit?\r\nNot
    to the extent that Gutenburg's work was revolutionary, no. But that's exactly
    my point. I don't think Legato could get much credit given the time and context
    in which it was designed. Baskerville was ahead of its time, and the design of
    the grotesque itself was. I'm convinced Legato isn't going to make that kind of
    impact. For starters, you're about the only one I hear talking about it; I hear
    more from Museo for example. A Legato genre however could be very significant,
    but until that happens I don't care about Legato as much as you do. It's perhaps
    comparable to running into the Large Hadron Collider, accelerate and smash particles
    into each other one time and then come screaming out of the building you just
    discovered new physics. No, you didn't; smash those particles another billions
    of times so it gains statistical significance. Equally, Legato alone does nothing
    more than impress people with its design, but doesn't win people over to adapt
    this method. Not yet anyway.\r\n\r\nAnother thing which both annoys and amuses
    me about Legato though is no matter how divine you think it is, at body text size
    you don't observe the stroke modulations anymore; you might as well have used
    an other typeface which battles the fencing effect for the body text.\r\n\r\n>
    However: is there a single Sans font that can take most of the credit?\r\nNot
    to the extent you're giving credit to Legato, I don't think. However, there are
    several sans which in my mind are incredibly refreshing (as is Legato) but not
    revolutionary. As I tried to explain with the LHC analogy, we need more experimentation
    and more typefaces like Legato to make it a revolutionary genre. Legato alone
    doesn't do it. Perhaps it would if it had optical variants with a more severe
    modulation effect in the body text variant, but would that really give it that
    extra push? I think it's a brilliant theory which in practice works in a much
    more vague and subjective sense.\r\n\r\n> So, if we do choose to focus on individual
    typefaces, exactly\r\n> what font is more significant, culturally? Ideal Sans?\r\nI
    don't find Ideal Sans to be culturally significant. Perhaps Gotham to some extent
    but that's only due to its use in the presidential campaign and not because of
    Gotham's design (pretty much the same case with Helvetica). A typeface I thought
    was about equally \"revolutionary\" to Legato is Calluna. Since Calluna there
    have been a few typefaces with the same directional serifs but it didn't exactly
    impact the type design community in a big way other than to appreciate the refreshing
    new detail in the serif base. Equally, Legato might be forgotten if you weren't
    here to mention it so often.\r\n\r\n> All that said, nobody should think in terms
    of THE or \"perfect\".\r\nI agree, and that was my initial objection against your
    statement about Legato. Legato certainly helps modern type evolve, but to say
    it's revolutionary is an overstatement."
  created: '2012-02-09 14:33:46'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "Gill, Syntax and Frutiger were also \"revolutionary\" if you don't take the
    term too seriously. I've been pondering what it is about Legato which makes reading
    more fluid than Syntax for example, and I think it has to do with the general
    color. Obviously type designers value a good texture and color, and I think humanist
    typefaces tend to deliver a good color quicker. I think I came to the right conclusion.
    What it is about Legato which makes it calm on the eyes is the fluidity; it has
    a very calm texture as the color is so good.\r\n\r\nBut here's why I don't think
    Legato is necessarily the better way to design type. Legato really isn't clear,
    crisp and pure. Ideal Sans comes much nearer to that ideal. So there's a bit of
    a dilemma as to what makes a typeface more legible. Clarity or fluidity? I think
    there are arguments for both and it might be contextual, as this is also the reason
    why we have specific typefaces for books and other typefaces (sans or serif) for
    shorter texts or display use or whatever. I find myself leaning towards clarity
    rather than fluidity most of the time though, which I think is why I find Ideal
    Sans aesthetically more pleasing.\r\n\r\nLegato is \u2014 when you look at individual
    letters \u2014 more a work of art than a typeface. It's fluid and humanist, and
    makes the other humanist sans serifs look more mechanical.\r\n\r\nHaving said
    this, I must take back a bit of my passion when I was criticizing Hrant for calling
    Legato revolutionary. I still think it's a bit of an overstatement, but I have
    to admit I haven't seen a sans serif typeface more fluid than Legato regardless
    of how many humanist/cursive elements the other sans serifs might feature. As
    such, maybe Legato really can be the beginning of a new genre I would call \"fluid\"
    instead of \"humanist\"."
  created: '2012-02-09 14:37:02'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">Legato alone does nothing more than impress people with its design, but
    doesn't win people over to adapt this method. Not yet anyway.\r\n\r\nThat depends
    what you mean. Legato (and discussion about it) has definitely been a cornerstone
    amongst the many influences on the way I think about and draw letterforms. Not
    necessarily stylistically, but conceptually. In concrete terms, my current designs
    think strongly about fluidity and 'dissonance' between form and counterform."
  created: '2012-02-09 21:05:08'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: I agree with that, but I have yet to see if Legato really brought on a revolution
    in type design. I think it's too early to tell at this point. At least we're talking
    though, and I certainly hope to see more of these fluid typefaces in upcoming
    years. Why hasn't there been one yet since Legato though?
  created: '2012-02-09 21:12:40'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Not a revolution, no, but I do believe it's been sneaking into designers'
    consciousness. \r\nFWIW I've seen some new/nascent designs that [appear to] have
    conceptual roots in Bloemsma's work. But I'd add that (1) it takes time, and (2)
    it's really not as easy to pull off as it may seem. (Personally, I know that I
    still have an incredible lot to learn if I ever hope to draw anything in that
    direction.)"
  created: '2012-02-09 21:18:34'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Legato's 'method' is quite particular, and I don't think other designers
    have thought through how to apply that method to create distinctive designs. Didot's
    method was also quite particular, and if you follow it you produce a design that
    looks like a Didot type. Similarly, I wonder to what degree the method of Legato
    is separable from the design of Legato?\r\n\r\nWhere I think Legato is (potentially)
    revolutionary is in that it provides a highly successful answer to the question
    \"If not the stroke, then what?\" That is, the question of how to create consistent,
    legible and visually pleasing letters in which the opposite edges of the structural
    elements are divorced from a (para)chirographic relationship inherited from particular
    writing tools. This is an important question, and Legato provides one answer (it
    remains to be seen if there are any other answers that are as remotely successful
    in application).\r\n\r\nI think the success of Legato's answer to that question
    rests somewhere in its ability to preserve a strong structural sense of letters
    despite the divorce of the edge relationships. I'm not completely sure how it
    does this, but it likely has something to do with both the low contrast and the
    consistency with which the method is applied."
  created: '2012-02-09 21:27:58'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "Maybe I'm playing the devil's advocate here, but didn't Bloemsma really just
    recreate the effect of a broad-nib pen, but without the tool? I really love Legato
    but I think we're all focusing on the wrong part here. I think the excellency
    of the design lies in Bloemsma's skill and willingness to make the letters do
    what they need to and not what practice dictates.* The only thing the slanting
    of the outer- and inner-forms did was allow him to think about the letters more
    abstractly, not escape the relation and unbreakable link of the outer- and inner-shape,
    and thus the \"stroke\".\r\n\r\nThere seems to be a lot of argument between \"the
    stroke\" and \"form, counter-form\" where somehow people think one is not linked
    to the other. These two \"schools of thought\" should not be considered rules
    to be followed, but a means of categorizing thoughts. When I work, I call strokes
    strokes, when the context dictates, and counters counters. When one means of categorization
    is used over the other (or with) all depends on what one is working on. You can't
    unlink strokes or counters from the notion of the letter. They are both in-grained.\r\n\r\nIf
    we have to discuss the second paragraph further, we might want to find or start
    a more appropriate thread.\r\n\r\n* look at the t and r: the t slants slightly
    forward while the r actually backslants"
  created: '2012-04-17 18:02:38'
date: '2009-03-12 13:23:02'
node_type: forum
title: What makes Legato so unique?

---
