---
author:
  name: Celeste
  picture: 111293
body: "Enjoy.\r\n[[http://www.behance.net/Gallery/Periodic-Table-of-Typefaces/193759]]"
comments:
- author:
    name: npgraphicdesign
  body: "What is so stupid about it? Saying something is stupid without backing it
    up with a good reason is akin to saying nothing at all.\r\n\r\nOr are you just
    jealous that YOU didn't come up with this idea? ;)"
  created: '2009-03-12 12:58:28'
- author:
    name: mustachioed
  body: "If anything, it's an interesting study with good intent.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure
    how you can justify it as <cite>One of the stupidest things I've ever seen</cite>."
  created: '2009-03-12 13:21:06'
- author:
    name: npgraphicdesign
  body: "Maybe it's a close parody of this:\r\nhttp://www.logodesignlove.com/periodic-table-of-branding\r\n\r\nBut
    I don't think it can be qualified as 'stupid.'"
  created: '2009-03-12 13:22:10'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: I'd like it on my office wall, I think it's cool.
  created: '2009-03-12 13:25:13'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\"There's a thin line between clever and stupid.\" \r\n\r\nI think this is
    more on the clever side. "
  created: '2009-03-12 13:40:14'
- author:
    name: npgraphicdesign
  body: 'How thin? Light or ultra light? '
  created: '2009-03-12 13:42:55'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: U+200A
  created: '2009-03-12 13:45:25'
- author:
    name: npgraphicdesign
  body: Hairline? No...I think that's stretching it a bit...well...a bit THIN. HAH!
  created: '2009-03-12 13:47:28'
- author:
    name: Celeste
    picture: 111293
  body: "OK, let\u2019s get into it, then.\r\nFirst of all, Mendeleiev's Periodic
    Table of the Elements is one of the greatest achievements of modern science, structured
    by an inner logic which, at the time of its conception, not only allowed to organize
    the chemical elements ALREADY known but also those YET to be discovered (radioactive
    substances, for instance). Here it is used as a mere \"cool-looking graphic scheme\"
    with no inner logic whatsoever. Lazy, shoddy stuff.\r\nNow to the \"Typophile\"
    part : in my opinion, making this kind of selection without referencing a specific
    context (academic, professional, publishing, etc.) is utterly useless \u2014 but
    THIS ONE is really, really, flawed : why include Robert Slimbach's AdobeGaramond
    AND Franco Luin's Garamond Classico, for instance ? Isn't one digital \"real\"
    Garamond (i.e. not based on a Jannon model) enough ? Why Griffo Classico and not
    Monotype Poliphilus ? Why Monotype Bembo AND Bitstream Aldine (which are more
    or less the same typeface) ? What's \"Realist\" about Baskerville ? And WHICH
    Baskerville, by the way ? Monotype ? ITC ? Storm ? Isn't Old English more \"Popular,
    Influential and Notorious\" than Manuscript-Gotisch ? Where's Fournier ? Where's
    Monotype Centaur ? Where are Bell and Bulmer ? Which Kis ? Linotype Kis Classico,
    Monotype Ehrhardt or Janson Text ? I could go on like this for hours, but would
    it be worth it ?\r\nThis thing LOOKS LIKE it has been THOUGHT OUT when it has
    merely been COMPILED \u2014 it is thus an insult to its model (Mendeleiev's work)
    AND to its subject (typographic culture)."
  created: '2009-03-14 15:19:36'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: I guess we all operate on different levels. I like it and use it as my wallpaper
    at the moment.
  created: '2009-03-14 15:45:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "St\xE9phane, although I don't think this is notably stupid (I wish it was
    - we'd be living in a better world) I certainly enjoy seeing that you care. People
    usurp greatness for quick thrills, debasing mankind in toto.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-14 17:45:21'
- author:
    name: Celeste
    picture: 111293
  body: "\u2014 Hrant\r\nMaybe it is my being a teacher that makes me go ape when
    I encounter this kind of easy/debased/false \"culture\" \u2014 thinking that one
    of my students could genuinely take this so-called \"Periodic Table of Typefaces\"
    at face value and mistake it for a serious, useful tool makes me very, very, very
    angry."
  created: '2009-03-14 18:53:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "P22 did a nicer job with this metaphor.\r\nA poster in a TypeCon goody bag
    past, with spot silver, IIRC.\r\n\r\nThe design of this is not very professional*,
    which gives it an air of scientific authenticity. Is that intentional irony or
    stupid irony?\r\n\r\nIt's symptomatic of the sketchiness of web culture that the
    source material is not real research, but opinion and aggregation.\r\nReal research
    here would classify according to taxonomic exemplars. That would reveal the disparity
    between elemental system and typographic system.\r\n\r\nThe most \"scientific\"
    of type classification charts is phyllogenetic, i.e. the evolutionary tree.\r\n\r\nBesides,
    how can the universe function without Papyrus and Co(s)mic Sans?\r\n\r\n*Dropshadow,
    etc."
  created: '2009-03-14 20:51:11'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Is humour henceforth banished from matters typophiliac?
  created: '2009-03-14 21:45:50'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: There was a time, during the late 1990s, when the Periodic Table of Elements
    metaphor was being used (and abused) by every other graphic designer. Maybe the
    trend got its start with <a href="http://www.amazon.co.uk/Spend-Everywhere-Everyone-Always-Forever/dp/1861542798">that
    Damien Hirst monograph</a> (designed by <a href="http://www.designmuseum.org/design/jonathan-barnbrook">Jonathan
    Barnbrook</a>, by the way). Seeing it resurface after ten years or so put a smile
    on my face, quite frankly. Sure, somebody who doesn't know much about typography
    (or high school science!) <em>might</em> take this at face value, but the makers
    clearly state that they have simply taken other people's popularity rankings into
    account. They even have the links listed at the bottom of the table! And the subtitle
    reads "Popular, Influential, & Notorious"! I think that constitutes fair warning.
    :-)
  created: '2009-03-14 21:52:02'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: I think it's a cool idea. By no means does it pretend to be comprehensive
    or even a useful tool. It's just an interesting graphic organization of a handful
    of typefaces that probably took quite some time to assemble.
  created: '2009-03-14 21:52:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Is humour henceforth banished from matters typophiliac?</em>\r\n\r\nPerish
    the thought.\r\nBut the item in question is an old joke not particularly well
    delivered.\r\nSorry, I've been around a while and have become quite fastidious."
  created: '2009-03-14 22:01:05'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: No worries, Nick, my question was not directed at you ;)
  created: '2009-03-14 22:39:55'
- author:
    name: Celeste
    picture: 111293
  body: "\u2014 Ricardo\r\nHaving the links to the original lists and compilations
    listed at the bottom of the table does not appear to me as \"tongue-in-cheek\".
    On the contrary, it lends to this dubious document an air of indisputable authority
    by naming people (Paul Shaw, Roger Black, Jan Middendorp) and organizations (FontShop,
    Typographica, The Type Directors Club) which are justly respected in the field
    of graphic and typographic design."
  created: '2009-03-14 22:42:57'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "<em>The</em> periodic table is an incredible achievement. I would very much
    like to own a print.\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-15 00:13:43'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: Of course, you could be [[http://theodoregray.com/PeriodicTable/|literal]].
  created: '2009-03-15 01:38:49'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">The periodic table is an incredible achievement. I would very much like
    to own a print.\r\n\r\nMany schools remain unlocked during office hours. You could
    pay a student to steal one for you, or wander in wearing an ill-fitting suit and
    bad glasses and they'll think you're a substitute teacher. \r\n"
  created: '2009-03-15 01:51:31'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "@sii: lol\r\n\r\nMy first encounter with the graphic bastardization of this
    design classic was through the Table of the Elements record label, which was founded
    in 1993 and features a logo that was derived from a single cell of the periodic
    table. FWIW"
  created: '2009-03-15 03:24:59'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "This \u2018periodic table\u2019 isn't one of the stupidest things I've ever
    seen -- I've seen a <em>lot</em> of stupid things! -- but I think St\xE9phane's
    critique of it is entirely accurate. I'd also suggest that it is symptomatic of
    a problematic kind of graphic design that apes the appearance of information design
    without actually understanding the conceptual basis of that design. This is just
    a list of popular typefaces arranged in boxes to look something like the periodic
    table of elements; there is nothing in the kind of information that it presents
    that either recommends this arrangement or benefits from it."
  created: '2009-03-15 03:36:04'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "<em>This is just a list of popular typefaces arranged in boxes to look something
    like the periodic table of elements</em>\r\n\r\nQuite so. What did you think it
    was? 42?"
  created: '2009-03-15 04:43:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Something remotely as powerful and useful as the real periodic table, since
    it looks a lot like it?\r\n\r\nThis is to the periodic table what the Paris hotel/casino
    in Las Vegas is to Paris, France. But some provincial peons still go to the resort
    in Vegas and -in a small part of their psyche- actually believe they're somehow
    approaching the real deal.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-15 04:49:29'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Why would anyone who came within a stone's throw of a high school make that
    mistake?
  created: '2009-03-15 04:58:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "People want to believe in convenient things.\r\nPlus, the TV tells them so.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-15 05:05:28'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "John Hudson, I'm reading you loud and clear.\r\nHrant, it sounds like you
    would appreciate this:\r\n\r\nhttp://thisamericanlife.org/Radio_Episode.aspx?episode=38"
  created: '2009-03-15 14:25:06'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "From the caption on Behance: <cite> > Unfortunately, the typefaces could
    not be sorted exactly numerically on the table while at the same time keeping
    them in groups of families and classes.  It had to be one or the other.  Of course
    it COULD have been done but I would have had to seriously sacrifice aesthetics
    of the overall design (i.e. it wouldn't have come out looking AT ALL like a traditional
    periodic table.) </cite>\r\n\r\nThis explains precisely why it can only bear a
    superficial resemblance to Mendeleev's ground-breaking work -- \"We couldn't really
    attempt to do what the Periodic Table of Elements actually does, because then
    it wouldn't <em>look</em> like the periodic table, and what would be the point
    of that?\"\r\n\r\nI agree with John's assessment. I also understand why St\xE9phane,
    as an educator, might be frustrated and irritated by what it pretends to be."
  created: '2009-03-15 14:31:55'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "On the topic of other visual nods to the Periodic Table of Elements: Others
    here may remember back in 2000 the Hoefler Type Foundry [pre-Frere-Jones] catalog,
    which announced the release of Knockout, made reference to the chemical table.\r\n\r\n
    [img:sites/default/files/old-images/HTF-CatalogNo4_4672.jpg]\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\nInside,
    this key was provided:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/HTF-CatalogNo4-key_6476.png]\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\nAgain,
    the homage would have been more authentic if the entries in the table were actually
    arranged in a more ordered sequence, especially given that the Knockout family
    was already organized into different series."
  created: '2009-03-15 14:47:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "St\xE9phane, it sounds to me like this is one of those \"I could do it so
    much better\" moments that launches someone on actually doing it better. By all
    means, have a go!"
  created: '2009-03-15 14:48:42'
- author:
    name: Celeste
    picture: 111293
  body: "\u2014 William\r\nI'm afraid it already took me six academic years to come
    up with a \"definitive\" typeface selection (AND a way to organize it and make
    students use it) suited to the needs of my teaching (never forget the context),
    so I may not be the ideal person to undertake such a grand endeavour. \r\nFurthermore,
    I simply wouldn't have taken Mendeleiev's Table as a starting point (see Nick's
    comment above).\r\nNevertheless, I must also admit that my title to this post
    was inaccurate : this stuff is one of the stupidest things I've ever seen WHEN
    IT COMES TO TYPEFACE CLASSIFICATION \u2014 no more, no less."
  created: '2009-03-15 15:02:13'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I\u2019m afraid it already took me six academic years \r\n\r\nAh, the infamous
    \"Darricau Dartboard\" and all these years I thought that was myth."
  created: '2009-03-15 15:11:19'
- author:
    name: Celeste
    picture: 111293
  body: "Yeah \u2014 for years I had been using this\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Dice_4708.jpg]\r\n\r\nbut
    in the end I found it a bit too rational.\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-15 16:34:04'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Very nice! Just worried that all these ideas are surfacing too far ahead of
    April 1. ;-)
  created: '2009-03-15 16:56:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ah, the mythical Vignelli Dice!\r\nHuh, I always thought the Style one was
    a coin.\r\n\r\nAndrew, thank you.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-15 17:22:25'
- author:
    name: Celeste
    picture: 111293
  body: "\u2014 Hrant\r\nI don\u2019t know about Vignelli, but these actually come
    from the back cover of Tibor Kalman's book \u201CPerverse Optimist\"."
  created: '2009-03-15 17:36:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Vignelli is famed for saying six fonts are enough to do any typographic job.
    In my book that's worse than the worst font pirate - at least pirates care enough
    to steal them.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-15 18:06:40'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "Updike claims one more than Vignelli. His composing room had \"only about
    seven series of standard types for book work, and in all about a score of varieties.\"
    That was his claim on page 241 of volume 2 of \"Printing Types.\"\r\n\r\nFor some
    years I pondered making a periodic table of types. I eventually gave up the idea,
    for all the reasons given above why this one does not work. Just un-do-able.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2009-03-15 18:16:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "1) Metal fonts are much more prohibitive.\r\n2) Seven text fonts isn't nearly
    as bad as seven for <em>any</em> typographic project.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-15 19:40:33'
- author:
    name: Celeste
    picture: 111293
  body: 'Michael Bierut (who worked with Vignelli for ten years) gives only five :
    Bodoni, Helvetica, Futura, Garamond 3 and Century Schoolbook.'
  created: '2009-03-15 19:55:55'
- author:
    name: Celeste
    picture: 111293
  body: "Oups. Century Expanded, actually.\r\n[[http://www.designobserver.com/archives/entry.html?id=25212]]\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-15 20:31:27'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "So many?\r\n\r\nI think if someone were to suggest that some fixed and limited
    set of specific typefaces were all that were necessary for all design by everyone
    and everywhere, that would be both foolish and also easily demonstrated to be
    false. But I think there is nothing wrong with a designer determining to work
    with a limited set of his own choosing that is useful for the kind of design he
    or she practices. Frankly, I can imagine working with only one or two typefaces,
    and the only reasons I would be likely to change them over time would be either
    my own desire for variety or the appearance of a new typeface that seemed more
    useful."
  created: '2009-03-15 20:32:59'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "as an e-book programmer, i only have a need for one font\r\n-- the one the
    reader chooses as the one they want to use.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-15 20:55:08'
- author:
    name: Cam
  body: "Should I defend?  I'm reading all your comments and I can't really come up
    with something, but I will say, you are all exactly right.  Right, but I guess
    I just wanted my intentions to be known because I love this site.\r\n\r\nI had
    a great conversation with a University of Michigan instructor recently that hated
    the design that explains much of what the complaints on here are about.  It's
    actually my favorite moment of this whole ordeal (read through the short comments
    section):  http://punya.educ.msu.edu/2009/03/11/yet-another-periodic-table/\r\n\r\nBasically
    what it boils down to is that: \r\n1) It was never my intention for it to be anywhere
    near the achievement Mendeleev's original table was.  \r\n\r\n2) The design is
    meant to bear a passing resemblance to the periodic table of elements (simply
    for familiarity's sake) and when the viewer does a second take, they see typefaces.
    \r\n\r\n3) I didn't choose the typefaces (for those that complained about leaving
    some out).  I didn't choose the ranking ORDER of typefaces.  The sources listed
    at the bottom of the design were used. I chose those sources (granted, some had
    more credibility than others but I didn't just willy-nilly choose lists to go
    off of) and annotated each and every typeface mentioned on all the lists in Excel.
    \ I then annotated their ranks in each list.  Then how many times they appeared
    on lists.  Finally averaged all the scores each typeface received and sorted the
    columns using the aggregate scores.  The first 100 typefaces that resulted were
    used in the table. So if there's a problem with why certain typefaces aren't on
    it and why one is ranked higher than another, the sources, again, are listed on
    the bottom of the design.  Ask them.\r\n\r\n4) The arrangement is again far far
    far from perfect.  Again, it wasn't my intention to make it perfect.  Just to
    resemble the table of elements.  That's it.  I DID put groups of same families
    and classes together because it gives it SOME organization and they look good
    together.  Also, they are numerically sorted WITHIN each family/class groups.\r\n\r\n5)
    Honestly, I had no idea how played out the kitchy \"Periodic Table of (insert
    anything here)\" was.  I'd never seen one other than the actual elements until
    after I uploaded my design.\r\n\r\n6) Finally, the honest-to-goodness truth is
    that when I uploaded the design on the Behance Network last Monday evening for
    the first time, I checked \"looking for feedback\" because at best, I thought
    it would get 30 views maximum and maybe get some tips on improving the design.
    \ I never once promoted, sent out the link (except to some friends) or tooted
    my horn in anyway. I woke up Tuesday morning to 5,000 views on the page and now
    it's at 37,000, not counting the seemingly endless blogs linking to the large
    size image (thereby passing up the Behance page completely) and more and more
    blogs linking to other blogs that are featuring it.  Again, not my intention.\r\n\r\nI'm
    sitting here wondering why I'm defending this here at Typophile so much.  This
    site is the only one I've done this with (other than Punya's that I linked to
    above, but I was much more brief).  I guess it's because I respect this site and
    it's members and would much rather express my views to this group rather than
    the few sites where the critiques are a bit harsher.\r\n\r\nFor those of you that
    \"get it,\" thank you very much.  For those that don't, that's a-ok, I still respect
    you all and what you do.\r\n\r\nI'm sorry but I just thought of one last final
    defense.  I've noticed on many sites in the comments and in many of the e-mails
    I've received, this design has just slightly opened the eyes of folks that previously
    took typefaces for granted.  They stick with Arial as the default because they
    never really had a good look at the options presented to them in such a way.  Also,
    there have been many comments from people that never fully realized that typefaces
    had designers with real names and that people actually cared about when the a
    particular typeface was designed.  So for the design to at least spark a bit of
    interest in the world of typography and it's history, it can't be THAT stupid
    could it?\r\n\r\nThank you again for all that you folks are doing.  Keep it up!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-15 21:50:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Cam, thank you for the detailed defense.\r\n\r\n> the one the reader chooses\r\n\r\nThere's
    a very simple reason this is a bad idea: the reader isn't necessarily qualified
    to know what's good for him. This has in fact been empirically demonstrated at
    least once, where readers were asked to choose the point size they thought was
    ideal for reading, and they chose sizes that were slightly too large. This is
    because consciousness cannot properly judge what the subconscious really favors.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-15 21:53:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Is humour henceforth banished from matters typophiliac?\"\r\n\r\nThat is
    a matter for Members to decide. Must we spare the typophiliac rod? That would
    place stiff opposition to 90% of my posts. :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nOH! That says
    typoPHILIAC, not typophalic--well then, never mind.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-15 22:11:06'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Cam, I think that you pleased a lot of people as well :-)\r\nWhy deny us
    all (the masses or the great unwashed)  this simple pleasure? Because it can mislead
    us and we will be more likely to commit typographic atrocities?\r\n\r\nNow for
    the typophylogenic heresy:\r\n\r\nI think that type categorisation and classification
    is a bit fuzzy at best, and arbitrary and subjective at worst. Anyone who believes
    that it can reveal some fundamental truths in a way similar to that of the Periodic
    Table thinks too much of typography or too little of science. <em>That</em> science
    would be Hrant's cheap, plastic, scaled-down model in LA.\r\n\r\nBless you, Chris!"
  created: '2009-03-15 22:35:17'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "hrant said:\r\n>   the reader isn\u2019t necessarily qualified\r\n>   to
    know what\u2019s good for him\r\n\r\num, well yeah, hrant, i will let you be \r\nthe
    one to try to convey that to them.\r\n\r\nbut if you tried to tell that to _me_,
    \r\nas a reader, i'd laugh in your face...\r\n\r\nand if you persisted, i'd spit
    in it...\r\n\r\nor maybe not...  the idea that you can\r\ntell someone that some
    font which he\r\nmight hate would be \"good for him\" is \r\ntoo silly to be serious
    enough to spit...\r\n\r\neven the reasonable idea that one font\r\nwill \"serve
    the text\" better than another\r\n-- which is how you should've put it --\r\nis
    one that many people simply do not\r\nfathom, even on a subconscious basis,\r\neven
    if their shortcoming on the issue\r\nmight seem to be preposterous to us...\r\n\r\nbut
    all of that is really beside the point,\r\nnot just for fonts but on a general
    basis.\r\n\r\nif you give end-users a choice between\r\na system that gives them
    control versus\r\none that does not, they'll usually choose\r\nthe system that
    _does_ give them control.\r\n\r\neven if it ain't the one that's \"good for them\".\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-15 22:35:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Because it can mislead us and we will be\r\n> more likely to commit typographic
    atrocities?\r\n\r\nI actually don't think so. But respecting greatness (by not
    caricaturizing it) in other fields is a Good Thing.\r\n\r\n> i will let you be
    the one to try to convey that to them.\r\n\r\nNo. They don't really want to know.
    We simply have to work under their radar. Quietly. Without writing loud poetry.\r\n\r\n>
    many people simply do not fathom,\r\n> even on a subconscious basis\r\n\r\nNo,
    I think almost everybody does.\r\n\r\n> if you give end-users a choice between\r\n>
    a system that gives them control versus\r\n> one that does not, they\u2019ll usually
    choose\r\n> the system that _does_ give them control.\r\n\r\nYes, this is the
    crux of the problem. People have been brainwashed into thinking they know everything.
    Because this makes them easier to deceive and control. Hopefully one day we will
    manage to make humility a cornerstone of our society.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-15 22:49:29'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I know this is veering off-topic but I think you\u2019ll find that few people
    use anything other than the default. So Microsoft, Apple and Adobe decide which
    font the author and reader use. I think the fact that after years Word changed
    the default from Times New Roman to a contemporary sans-serif in Calibri, and
    few people even noticed, means that there are not a bunch of educated users out
    there who are changing the defaults. "
  created: '2009-03-15 23:04:27'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "cam-\r\n\r\ni thought your project was endearing.\r\nevidently, so did lots
    of other people.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\none of the first times i saw the periodic table\r\nbeing
    used as a presentational device was in\r\na hypertext story \"e:electron\" by
    deena larsen.\r\n\r\ndeena larsen:\r\n>   I have a variety of works on the web
    \r\n>   that use everything from ferris wheels \r\n>   to the periodic table of
    elements\r\n>   as structural analogies \r\n>   for my stories and poems.\r\n\r\nyou
    can find an overview of deena's work here:\r\n>   http://www.deenalarsen.net/\r\n\r\nother
    hypertext authors have used the device too:\r\n\r\n>   Directions, by Rob Swigart
    \r\n>   The Eastgate Quarterly Review of Hypertext, \r\n>   volume 1, number 4\r\n>
    \  Directions is a multimedia hypertext poem, \r\n>   taking its inspiration from
    \r\n>   the periodic table of the elements.\r\n\r\n>   Quam Artem Exerceas, by
    Giuliano Franco\r\n>   The Eastgate Quarterly Review of Hypertext, \r\n>   volume
    1, number 4\r\n>   Centered on the periodic table of the elements, \r\n>   combines
    poetic fragments, visual images, \r\n>   prose narrative, and sound to create
    a deep, \r\n>   dazzling, and often startling work.\r\n\r\nand here's a periodic
    table of science-fiction:\r\n>   http://www.scifi.com/scifiction/periodictable.html\r\n\r\nand
    another, this one for \"visualization methods\":\r\n>   http://www.visual-literacy.org/periodic_table/periodic_table.html\r\n\r\nand,
    for dessert, one for desserts!\r\n>   http://www.eblong.com/zarf/periodic/index.html\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-15 23:09:19'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "The Scifi one is actually very good! A homage to The Elements in 118 short
    stories by Michael Swanwick (cyberpunk epic <em>Schismatrix</em> writer).\r\n\r\nGreat
    link -- always something to read if I'm bored for 5 minutes ;-)"
  created: '2009-03-15 23:30:26'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "hrant said:\r\n>   No, I think almost everybody does.\r\n\r\ni know what
    _you_ think.\r\n\r\nyou think that people _subconsciously_\r\nnotice the subtle
    effects of various fonts.\r\n\r\ni think that some do, and some don't...\r\nand
    i think that you likely overestimate\r\nthe number who do.  then again, perhaps\r\ni'm
    overestimating the ones who do not.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nsii said:\r\n>   I think
    you\u2019ll find that few people \r\n>   use anything other than the default.\r\n\r\nright.
    \ because they don't really care...\r\nheck, they probably don't even _notice_.\r\n\r\nwhich
    is exactly what i just said, above...\r\n\r\nfurther, if you were to point it
    out to them,\r\nthey'd probably say \"oh, yes, you're right\",\r\nand then shrug
    their shoulders and forget it.\r\nbecause there's no reason for them _to_ care.\r\n\r\nyou
    guys know.  and care.  fonts are your life.\r\nmost people aren't you.  don't
    know.  or care...\r\nother things are much more important to them.\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  So Microsoft, Apple and Adobe decide \r\n>   which font the author and reader
    use. \r\n\r\nand book publishers.  and magazine designers.\r\nand newspaper people.
    \ and sign-makers too...\r\n\r\nfor most of our real-world experience, to now,\r\nwe
    haven't had the chance to control our fonts.\r\n\r\nso it's no surprise that now,
    when we finally do,\r\nwe just take whatever is given to us as default...\r\n\r\nhowever,
    it is no longer true of e-book people.\r\nthey know they control the font (when
    they can),\r\nand they _use_ that capability, and they _like_ it\r\n-- consider
    it to be one of the perks of e-books --\r\nand now _demand_ it from e-book programmers.\r\nand
    they reject the e-book formats -- like .pdf --\r\nwhich do not let them use the
    fonts they prefer...\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nhrant said:\r\n>   Yes, this is the crux
    of the problem.\r\n\r\nno, the _crux_ of \"the problem\" is that you\r\nconsider
    personal choice to be \"the problem\".\r\n\r\nbut the cat is now out of the bag
    on that one.\r\n\r\nthe end-user controls the font, like it or not.\r\n\r\nand
    that's the way the end-users _like_ it, so\r\nthose are the systems that they're
    gonna use,\r\neven if _you_ don't think it's \"good for them\".\r\n\r\n\r\n>   Hopefully
    one day we will manage to make \r\n>   humility a cornerstone of our society.\r\n\r\nbut
    where will that leave you \r\n\"experts\" who \"know better\"?\r\n\r\nare you
    immune to humility?\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-15 23:35:36'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Respect!\r\n\r\nEdit: To Cam I mean for his good form!"
  created: '2009-03-15 23:48:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the cat is now out of the bag on that one.\r\n\r\nThat cat has been out
    of the bag, out of the house, out in the street, and out of the country. That
    cat owns its own bag. But I don't think it's personal choice that's the problem,
    it's some people's propensity to \"repurpose\" it to enslave us. And some slaves
    apparently applaud their masters.\r\n\r\n> are you immune to humility?\r\n\r\nIt's
    about context. It's counter-productive for me to be too humble about type design
    when dealing with a typographic novice. But for example even though I know a lot
    more about politics than most people, I still don't vote. Most people who vote
    are impressionable, self-important peons.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-16 00:51:30'
- author:
    name: Marcelo Soler
    picture: 115167
  body: "<em>if you give end-users a choice between / a system that gives them control
    versus / one that does not, they\u2019ll usually choose / the system that _does_
    give them control. / even if it ain\u2019t the one that\u2019s \u201Cgood for
    them\u201D.</em>\r\nIs it that way? Absolutely not. Any version of Linux, or even
    Mac OSX, gives more control to the user than Microsoft Windows. But the winner
    is MSW. In the same sense, say, MS Word gives a lot of control either nobody cares
    or uses. As you say somewhere, the user don't mind it. I agree one must tend to
    give users the more of control, but only in the user's scope. I'd not allow users
    to chose i.e. memory cache size or low level device addresses. Much of the system
    must remain transparent to the user ever. I think typographic decisions are not
    within the scope of users' choice; you can allow them to change font size, but
    spacing and alignment should be out of their control, the same as font face; perhaps
    it could be a reduced set of default fonts. When you fly on a plane, you enjoy
    a lot of options that don't include the kind of fuel, the speed, the altitude,
    the lift area size, or even the name of the pilot and his crew: they all are matter
    of the airline company; worse: I guess the silly man at control would not let
    you press a single button within his flight deck.\r\nWe had endlesly read and/or
    written that type design should remain imperceptible for readers; well: how could
    they decide on something they don't see?\r\n\r\n<strong>MarS</strong>"
  created: '2009-03-16 02:09:42'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Cam, it was nice to see your comments here. Thanks for posting!\r\n\r\nSt\xE9phane,
    thanks for linking to Michael Bierut's \"Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Typeface\"...
    I'd forgotten all about that essay. Also, Bierut seems to have liked this periodic
    table of typefaces, because he posted a link to it on Design Observer. :-)"
  created: '2009-03-16 03:26:13'
- author:
    name: Celeste
    picture: 111293
  body: "\u2014 Ricardo\r\nYes, it was through \"Design Observer\" that I found the
    thing \u2014 I always take a look at the links posted there by MB, which is one
    of my absolute heroes (though I can disagree with him sometimes, obviously)."
  created: '2009-03-16 09:12:32'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "What I think would be the ultimate homage to the real periodic table is to
    create the uncreated: A placemark for the un-designed typefaces. Mendeleiev\u2019s
    Periodic Table of the Elements was amazing because it predicted elements that
    weren't even known about at the time of its creation.\r\n\r\nIt would be cool
    if somehow you could make a typographic table do the same thing, but for type.
    \r\n\r\nWhat is to be the next major typeface(s)?"
  created: '2009-03-16 14:54:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">What is to be the next major typeface(s)?\r\n\r\nA squared sans with added
    semi-serif slabs :) "
  created: '2009-03-16 15:17:48'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "the Periodic Table of Elements, as you all know, simply lists the elements
    in numeric order based on the number of particles they are made up of, starting
    with Hydrogen. This allows you to predict and classify undiscovered elements by
    simply filling the blanks once you've listed all the known ones, and further,
    to predict their properties. \r\n\r\nTo do this with type, Is really quite easy.
    Let's say we assume a 1000 \xD7 1000 M quad, going in a similar numeric order,
    just start listing all possible combinations of units that are black or white
    and can be classed as glyphs in a known alphabet\u2026\r\n\r\nThen again, maybe
    not. :\xAC)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2009-03-16 16:44:51'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: Wow. What would that chart look like? I wouldn't want to design a million
    unit chart. That would be rough on the synapses.
  created: '2009-03-16 16:45:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: " John Hudson posted a \"phylogenetic\" chart of type styles quite recently,
    something to do with expanding the stroke by varying degrees, with varying degrees
    of contrast.\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-16 17:48:01'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Nick, was it [[Gerrit Noordzij]]\u2019s <a href=\"http://books.google.com/books?id=sR9g5xPPJVQC&pg=PA152&lpg=PA152&dq=noordzij+cube&source=bl&ots=V4ob77ypwC&sig=CyhaDludJ5CKwSQWyMPWURGCFHY&hl=en&ei=u5K-SbDCBsLM-AaJ_sDIBA&sa=X&oi=book_result&resnum=3&ct=result\">cube</a>?"
  created: '2009-03-16 17:57:06'
- author:
    name: Nachos
    picture: 116245
  body: "@ Celeste\r\n\r\nI'm not sure if you've looked closely at this graphic but
    the firm that created this \"periodic table\" is pulling it's content from numerous
    surveys of typical typefaces that designers use professionally. So, your comment
    that <em>\"without referencing a specific context (academic, professional, publishing,
    etc.) is utterly useless\" </em> is baseless because the context is implied. \r\n\r\n<em>thinking
    that one of my students could genuinely take this so-called \u201CPeriodic Table
    of Typefaces\u201D at face value and mistake it for a serious, useful tool makes
    me very, very, very angry.</em> Now, we all have our jaded view on what typefaces
    we like/dislike and why but if this is <em>\"One of the stupidest things I've
    ever seen\"</em> you lead a truly privileged life. \r\n\r\nMendeleiev is dead,
    so I wouldn't worry about him being offended. But if you are that upset about
    it I would suggest taking a vacation."
  created: '2009-03-16 18:13:14'
- author:
    name: mbojkowski
    picture: 120462
  body: I feel like I've seen this before... possibly in a copy of U&lc? Doesn't anyone
    recall something similar in ITC's U&lc magazine?
  created: '2014-05-12 06:54:38'
date: '2009-03-12 12:32:37'
node_type: forum
title: One of the stupidest things I've ever seen ?

---
