---
author:
  name: Roger S. Nelsson
  picture: 114302
body: "Calling all techheads ;)\r\n\r\nI am currently updating all my font files -
  to get rid of a typo in the embedded license text, really...\r\nAt the same time
  I thought it sensible to include additional support for the infamous Romanian sScedilla/sScommaaccent
  problem. All my fonts have both glyphs present, but as I understand they might still
  display inconsistently because of differing application/text/encoding support on
  the user side. (I also intend to duplicate the tTcommaaccent into the currently
  empty tTcedilla/U021AB spots - also to make the fonts more compatible)\r\n\r\nI
  have read MANY threads on this forum and elsewhere, but have not found any updated
  and general solutions - just a lot of specific samples.\r\n\r\nSo, in an effort
  to make an easy and general solution to the Romanian sScedilla/sScommaaccent problem:
  will this short feature code work as intended? (I'm using FontLab Studio 5.0.4 for
  Mac)\r\n\r\nGeneral definition in the lower right part of the OpenType panel:\r\n---\r\nlanguagesystem
  latn dflt;\r\nlanguagesystem latn MOL;\r\nlanguagesystem latn ROM;\r\n---\r\n\r\nlocl
  feature:\r\n---\r\nfeature locl { # Localized Forms\r\n # Latin\r\n language MOL
  \ exclude_dflt; # Moldavian\r\n    sub [Scedilla scedilla] by [Scommaaccent scommaaccent];\r\n
  language ROM  exclude_dflt; # Romanian\r\n    sub [Scedilla scedilla] by [Scommaaccent
  scommaaccent];\r\n} locl;\r\n---\r\n\r\nI wonder if just including these two snippets
  will make it work? I do not want to have to include any language specific lines
  into all the other opentype features the fonts may have...\r\n\r\nThankful for any
  clarifications :)\r\n\r\nRoger\r\n\r\nPS! From what I had gathered I should start
  the general definition with \"languagesystem DFLT dflt;\",but this generates an
  error in FontLab Studio when compiling \"Use of DFLT tag has been deprecated. It
  will work, but please use 'dflt' instead\" so I removed it again..."
comments:
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: Starting with the P.S., Adam Twardoch has a <a href="http://www.silesian.com/software/FixDFLTScriptTagSL.zip">nice
    script</a> for this. So you can ignore the error message but need to run the .otf(s)
    through the script. He gave an explanation on Typophile but I cannot find the
    discussion.
  created: '2009-03-14 11:55:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>So you can ignore the error message but need to run the .otf(s) through
    the script.</em> \r\n\r\nWhy doesn't Fontlab work properly?\r\nRunning a script
    is not what I'd call a bug fix.\r\nOr why doesn't the OS take care of this issue?\r\n\r\nSurely
    all I should need to do as the type designer is create the appropriate glyph,
    with the appropriate Unicode number.\r\nI mean, why does all this other technical
    stuff get downloaded onto me?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-14 20:16:29'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: Hello Nick, my comment relates only to the P.S. about the 'languagesystem
    DFLT dflt;' statement. FLS5's old FDK 1.6 does not know about the rather new 'DFLT'
    script tag but (fortunately) creates a empty entry which Adam's script can replace
    by the missing 'DFLT'.
  created: '2009-03-14 21:42:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Hi Karsten.\r\nSorry, I don't understand.\r\nIf I make the appropriate entries
    in the \"locl\" feature, and generate the font in FL5, and get the error message,
    does that mean the feature won't work in Romania?"
  created: '2009-03-14 22:04:22'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "The question about locl feature entries and Romanian is one issue that I
    did not address.\r\nThe P.S. question about the 'languagesystem DFLT dflt;' statement
    and FLS5's error message is another issue. If the feature text contains this statement
    and the error message pops up, then FDK 1.6 did a mistake and added a entry for
    a script '&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;' rather than, as it should, for a script 'DFLT'
    which is Adobe's tag for a default script (i.e. the script is not explicitly Latin,
    Greek, Cyrillic, etc but anything). Remember that in a layout table, you have,
    first, a list of scripts that are explicitly addressed by the table, each of which
    scripts refers to a list of languages, each of which refers to some features associated
    with it; second, a list of features each of which refers to lookups associated
    with it; and third, a list of lookups which refer to subtables that define pieces
    of layout behavior (substitution or positioning). So by analyzing the input text
    and user settings, an application can find out which lookups it shall apply to
    the text. It is explained in detail <a href=\"http://www.microsoft.com/typography/otspec/chapter2.htm\"
    target=\"_blank\">here</a> in the chapter \"Table Organization\". The entry for
    a script '&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;' may not harm but is unnecessary, and is either
    better corrected with Adam's macro, or the \u2019languagesystem DFLT dflt;\u2019
    statement omitted right away.\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-14 23:23:13'
- author:
    name: Roger S. Nelsson
    picture: 114302
  body: "Hi Karsten, thanks for the explanations.\r\n\r\nSo you're saying I can (safely)
    omit \"languagesystem DFLT dflt;\"?\r\nMy fonts are not overly complicated, and
    I just want a quick and easy way to support the Romanian conundrum...\r\n\r\nI
    guess it should be included in complex language coded fonts (as a catch-all?)
    but I specifically ONLY want to solve the ROM (and MOL) situation, which is specific
    for just \"latn ROM\" (and latn MOL)...\r\nOr wouldn't the feature work if I omit
    \"languagesystem DFLT dflt;\"?"
  created: '2009-03-15 00:18:21'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "The question whether to include both \"languagesystem DFLT dflt\" and \"languagesystem
    latn dflt\" or just \"languagesystem latn dflt\" has nothing to do with locl or
    Romanian. \r\n\r\nAFDKO 1.6 which is part of FontLab Studio 5 only supports \"languagesystem
    latn dflt\" because \"languagesystem DFLT dflt\" was added to the OpenType specification
    much later (so in FLS5, it is misunderstood, and the four-spaces-script tag is
    generated instead, which my script corrects). \r\n\r\nWhether one needs to use
    it at all, or not, is a matter of preference. Microsoft applications and older
    Adobe applications don't use the \"languagesystem DFLT dflt\" branch at all, just
    \"languagesystem latn dflt\". Newer Adobe applications will use \"languagesystem
    latn dflt\" in most cases, and \"languagesystem DFLT dflt\" in some cases, but
    if it is not present, they will use \"languagesystem latn dflt\" instead. \r\n\r\nAs
    far as I can tell, Microsoft considers the DFLT script tag redundant and unnecessary,
    so it was registered specifically by Adobe's motivation, but Adobe will also support
    the latn script tag. \r\n\r\nFontLab Studio 6 will include AFDKO 2.5 which supports
    \"languagesystem DFLT dflt\" \u2014 but the question will still remain open whether
    it actually makes sense at all to add \"languagesystem DFLT dflt\". It's complicated
    :) \r\n\r\nEither way, fonts with just \"languagesystem latn dflt\" will definitely
    work fine. \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam"
  created: '2009-03-15 03:19:00'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Roger: <em>I also intend to duplicate the tTcommaaccent into the currently
    empty tTcedilla/U021AB spots.</em>\r\n\r\nI used to recommend that, since I never
    found any evidence of T/t with actual cedilla in use anywhere, but having discussed
    this with some Romanians at Microsoft, I've determined that it would be better
    to have T/t with cedilla glyphs mapped to U+0162 and U+00163. The thinking is
    that if these codepoints are used for Romanian text, which is still often the
    case due to legacy encodings, this implies that U+015E and U+015F will be used
    for the S/s diacritic; in this situation it is considered preferable for both
    S/s and T/t to be displayed with the incorrect cedilla accent than for one to
    be displayed with the cedilla and one with the comma-like accent.\r\n\r\nAll the
    Microsoft core fonts were updated in this way recently, and now have actual T/t
    with cedilla glyphs mapped to U+0162 and U+00163."
  created: '2009-03-15 03:21:04'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "I recommend against using the glyph names \"Scommaaccent\" and \"scommaaccent\"
    because they are not recognized by Mac OS X 10.4 and earlier. Use \"uni0218\"
    and \"uni0219\" instead, they will work everywhere where \"Scommaaccent\" and
    \"scommaaccent\" *and* also in Mac OS X 10.4 and earlier. \r\n\r\nSo, the following
    code works fine and is fully sufficient: \r\n\r\n<code>languagesystem latn dflt;\r\nlanguagesystem
    latn MOL;\r\nlanguagesystem latn ROM;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature locl { # Localized
    Forms\r\n# Latin\r\nlanguage MOL exclude_dflt; # Moldavian\r\nsub [Scedilla scedilla]
    by [uni0218 uni0219];\r\nlanguage ROM exclude_dflt; # Romanian\r\nsub [Scedilla
    scedilla] by [uni0218 uni0219];\r\n} locl;</code>\r\n\r\nIf you use AFDKO 2.5
    to build your fonts rather than FLS5, you might optionally also want to add the
    line \r\n\r\n<code>languagesystem DFLT dflt;</code>\r\n\r\nat the very beginning
    of your feature definition file (i.e. in FontLab Studio's UI, in the lower-right
    pane). Or, if you use FLS5, you can add that line and then use my script. Or you
    may simply not bother about it at all. "
  created: '2009-03-15 03:22:33'
- author:
    name: Roger S. Nelsson
    picture: 114302
  body: "@Adam: Thanks for confirming the \"easy\" solution. I prefer to do it all
    in FontLab, so omitting \"languagesystem DFLT dflt;\" suits me just fine :)\r\nAnd
    BTW: when will FontLab Studio 6 be available? ;)\r\n\r\n@John: jeez, you just
    HAD to throw another spanner in the works! :p\r\nI can understand the reasoning
    behind it, though - it makes sense for the Microsoft core fonts for which there
    must be LOTS of existing documents written in Romanian...\r\nBut I'm not too worried
    about backward compatibility for my fonts - they will (probably) only be used
    to set NEW text, and therefore I only want them to support the new \"correct\"
    glyph designs. That is also the reason I want to implement the language code -
    to aid in getting rid of the legacy usage (only in language \"tag\" aware application,
    though).\r\n\r\nThanks for all the good help - during a weekend, even!\r\n:)\r\n\r\nRoger"
  created: '2009-03-15 09:14:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>All the Microsoft core fonts were updated in this way recently, and now
    have actual T/t with cedilla glyphs mapped to U+0162 and U+00163.</em>\r\n\r\nSame
    thing for FontFonts."
  created: '2009-03-15 17:46:47'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: '*Tricketi-tracketi-tracking*'
  created: '2009-03-15 19:11:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Roger: <em>But I\u2019m not too worried about backward compatibility for
    my fonts - they will (probably) only be used to set NEW text, and therefore I
    only want them to support the new \u201Ccorrect\u201D glyph designs.</em>\r\n\r\nBut
    the standard 8-bit codepages that use the old encodings for Romanian have not
    gone away, nor have the Romanian keyboard drivers that use them, and plenty of
    new Romanian text gets encoded using U+0162 and U+0163 for the T/t diacritic instead
    of the newer, recommended codepoints. Wherever there is the possibility that the
    Romanian S/s diacritic will be displayed with a cedilla because of the encoding,
    the T/t diacritic should match.\r\n\r\n<em>That is also the reason I want to implement
    the language code - to aid in getting rid of the legacy usage (only in language
    \u201Ctag\u201D aware application, though).</em>\r\n\r\nGood. But this mechanism
    should also be used to convert T/t with cedilla to T/t with comma-like accent,
    rather than making the latter the default form for U+0162 and U+0163."
  created: '2009-03-15 20:45:03'
- author:
    name: Roger S. Nelsson
    picture: 114302
  body: "Ouch, my head hurts now... ;)\r\n\r\nI understand the problem, and see that
    it can (maybe) be solved with even more switcheroo-stuff encoded in the font (feel
    free to supply the needed code ;). But putting in a \"wrongly designed\" glyph
    just irks me. Using two wrongly designed glyphs in text for the sake of consistency
    irks me doubly.\r\n\r\nI personally have no problem leaving a little responsibility
    to the users of my fonts.\r\nAt least the T will be presented with the correct
    design in any case - and if the user want an S with the corresponding design,
    they will have to pick it from the glyph pallette, search/replace or use an input
    method that works \"correctly\".\r\nIf they set the text and have differently
    designed T and S - and care about it - they should also know how to correct it.\r\nAgain:
    the fonts I make are not intended for large amounts of text, so the user should
    be able to adjust it manually.\r\n\r\nBut for the general information value of
    this thread: it would be interesting to see a catch-all solution worked out, preferably
    with the text always ending up with using correctly designed glyphs. Is that even
    possible?"
  created: '2009-03-15 21:34:31'
- author:
    name: schriftgestalt
    picture: 110805
  body: "I tried to find the correct glyph -> unicode assignment of the T/tcommaaccent
    T/tcedilla S/scomm... I had a look at various fonts and found no clear solution.
    \r\n\r\nCan someone give a clear overview of glyphshape > unicode/name for this
    four glyphs? Does the glyph look like the name and witch unicodes should be assigned?\r\nIs
    is a completely incorrect example of what I meen:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/commaaccents_3460.png]\r\n\r\nThanks\r\nGeorg"
  created: '2009-03-15 21:35:14'
- author:
    name: Roger S. Nelsson
    picture: 114302
  body: "This is exactly the main problem: inconsistency! ;)\r\n\r\nWhat John suggests
    (and Microsoft and FontFont apparently has done recently) is to change the design
    of the \"tTcommaaccent\"/U021A-B to a Tt with cedilla - a glyph which is \"incorrect\",
    but more consistent with a wrongly used sScedilla...\r\n\r\nAnd previously the
    recommendation from John (and the choice of Microsoft and FontFont) was to use
    a comma on both T-designs (as in your example) - with the reasoning being that
    the tT with cedilla \"doesn't exist\".\r\n\r\nMy stance so far (but it might change
    someday ;) is that it is better to have at least one (T) glyph correct in all
    instances and leave the correction of the other one (S) up to the user. If they
    use language tag aware (= updated) software the first mentioned code will auto-correct
    it, and if they use older software and/or is not capable to change the S around
    themselves: they are \"bad designers/typographers\", and it will show in their
    work. Tough love! ;)"
  created: '2009-03-15 21:56:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"FontLab Studio 6 will include AFDKO 2.5 ...\"\r\n\r\nWill this actually
    be in our lifetime, Adam? Or will there be yet another new FDK and 3 OS changes
    before we actually see it on a Mac?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-15 21:56:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "There are four Unicode characters, included in a single 8-bit Romanian codepage:
    U+01FE U+015F U+0162 U+0163. These are all identified in Unicode as ...WITH CEDILLA.\r\n\r\nNow,
    this encoding is generally recognised as having been a mistake, because it falsely
    unifies S/s with cedilla, as used in Turkish, with S/s with comma-like accent
    as used in Romanian. Later, in an effort to correct this mistake, Unicode added
    distinct S/s and T/t with comma-like accent codepoints -- U+0218 U+0129 U+021A
    U+021B -- thereby producing two divergent ways of encoding the Romanian language.
    It is a mess, to be sure, but I do not think it can be asserted with certainty
    that T/t with a cedilla is a \u2018wrongly designed glyph\u2019 for U+0162 or
    U+0163; indeed, since Unicode deliberately chose to disunify not only S/s with
    cedilla from S/s with comma-like accent but also T/t with cedilla from T/t with
    comma-like accent, I think a very strong case can be made that, whatever the needs
    of Romanian typography, U+0162 or U+0163 should be designed with a cedilla in
    parallel with U+01FE and U+015F.\r\n\r\nSure, the cedilla is wrong for Romanian,
    but the approved solution to that problem is to use the new codepoints -- U+0218
    U+0129 U+021A U+021B -- for Romanian. For better or for worse, this is the solution
    that Unicode provides: a change in the character encoding. Since they disunified
    both the S/s and T/t diacritics for Romanian, that implies to me that the glyphs
    should be likewise disunified. And as I noted, the change in practice in MS fonts
    was in response to consultation with native Romanian text processing experts.
    The same point is also made -- complete with link to me contradicting my current
    position! -- on this Romanian web page:\r\nhttp://dic.academic.ru/dic.nsf/enwiki/236528\r\n\r\nIn
    this case, two wrongs do seem to make, if not a right, at least a lesser wrong."
  created: '2009-03-16 04:21:42'
- author:
    name: Roger S. Nelsson
    picture: 114302
  body: "OK, John - you have persuaded me, I think ;)\r\n\r\nEven though the tT with
    cedilla shouldn't really be used, it's more fun to design different glyphs, anyway
    (instead of having duplicate ones)...\r\n\r\nNow let's create the needed code!
    Need a little help here...\r\n\r\nlanguagesystem DFLT dflt; # optional\r\nlanguagesystem
    latn dflt;\r\nlanguagesystem latn MOL; # Moldovian (is that an actual latin language?
    Wikipedia says church slavonic)\r\nlanguagesystem latn ROM; # Romanian\r\nlanguagesystem
    latn ???; # Livonian (uses commaaccent for other letters, so need help to \"switch\"
    the tTcedilla if it gets the \"unused\" design)\r\n\r\nfeature locl { # Localized
    Forms\r\n# Latin\r\nlanguage MOL exclude_dflt; # Moldavian\r\nsub [Scedilla scedilla]
    by [uni0218 uni0219];\r\nsub [Tcedilla tcedilla] by [uni021A uni021B];\r\nlanguage
    ROM exclude_dflt; # Romanian\r\nsub [Scedilla scedilla] by [uni0218 uni0219];\r\nsub
    [Tcedilla tcedilla] by [uni021A uni021B];\r\nlanguage ??? exclude_dflt; # Livonian\r\nsub
    [Tcedilla tcedilla] by [uni021A uni021B];\r\n} locl;\r\n\r\nAre we getting there?"
  created: '2009-03-16 08:47:37'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: 'Thank you to all who commented on this thread. I have posted a <a href="http://forum.fontlab.com/fontlab-studio-tips-and-tricks/handling-romanian-glyphs-in-opentype-fonts-updated-as-of-2009-t337.0.html;msg911#msg911"><strong>summary
    of this discussion on the FontLab forum</strong></a>. '
  created: '2009-03-16 11:33:56'
- author:
    name: Roger S. Nelsson
    picture: 114302
  body: "Wow, more \"uniXXXX\" glyph names...\r\nI like the lookup subroutine, though...\r\n\r\nWhen
    will FontLab start using these (new?) correct glyphnames? (0162-3 are called tTcommaaccent
    now - the opposite of what they should look like according to the most recent
    policy ;)\r\nWill this be corrected in FontLab Studio 6? And when will this be
    released, Adam? ;)\r\n\r\nAnd to further prove the confusion around these glyphs:\r\nOn
    my Mac (Safari 3.2 / OSX 10.4.11) your letters under point 1 show up correctly
    (as described) BUT\r\nOn my PC (Internet Explorer 7 / Win XP Pro) the tT designs
    are switched! (tTcedilla has clearly disconnected commaaccents and the tTcommaaccents
    looks connected)\r\n\r\nMan, what a mess! :D\r\n\r\nOh, and we should also put
    in proper language support for the (9?) Livonian-speaking users out there! ;)\r\nJust
    for completeness. Anybody know the proper language code for Livonian?"
  created: '2009-03-16 11:34:05'
- author:
    name: Roger S. Nelsson
    picture: 114302
  body: "Oh, Adam deleted his initial post and made a link to the FontLab forum instead...\r\nOn
    the FontLab forum the letters are displayed correctly.\r\n\r\nBut trust me, it
    DID look wrong here ;)\r\n(Could you re-post it, Adam?)"
  created: '2009-03-16 11:37:54'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Roger, \r\n\r\nI was having trouble getting the post formatted here on Typophile
    because Typophile does not support tables, AFAIK. So I posted it on the FontLab
    forum. But feel free to comment on it here if you wish. \r\n\r\nWe don't have
    a release date for FontLab Studio 6 yet but of course it will use the newest AGLFN
    and glyph naming recommendations. The current version uses an older version of
    AGLFN (which was current at the time of release of FLS5, and which did recommend
    the use of *commaaccent glyph names.) \r\n\r\nAs for the rendering of the characters
    in my posting \u2014 they are encoded correctly in the posting, but will of course
    be rendered using the glyphs that are in the browser's current font. We all know
    that some fonts have those glyphs designed according to the current recommendations
    while other fonts will have them designed according to the old specs, or even
    yet in a different way. \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam"
  created: '2009-03-16 11:56:35'
- author:
    name: Roger S. Nelsson
    picture: 114302
  body: "No worries - it just looked too funny (especially in this context)\r\nYeah,
    I know it had to do with the browser fonts (or probably substitute fonts), but
    still... hilarious.\r\n:)"
  created: '2009-03-16 12:02:59'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Hilarious? I don't know. I guess it's the difference in attitude. I assume
    that all software products, including fonts from all vendors, are faulty and buggy
    to some extent \u2014 so if a bug surfaces, it's just a confirmation of my expectation.
    In other words, I'm not surprised that those characters render differently depending
    on the font. If they were all fine, we wouldn't be having this conversation :) "
  created: '2009-03-16 12:38:44'
- author:
    name: Roger S. Nelsson
    picture: 114302
  body: "Exactly. :)\r\n\r\nNow, if only John (with his exceptional technical linguistic
    knowledge) could supply us with the language code for Livonian we can also include
    support for the tTcedilla to tTcommaaccent switch neccesary for that language
    when we make a tT with cedilla in glyph position U0162-3.\r\n\r\nTHEN all new
    fonts with this feature code and glyph design will work optimally (until next
    time technology or whatnot makes us change the policy again ;)"
  created: '2009-03-16 13:31:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "'Moldavian' is more usually referred to as Moldovan. Essentially, it is Romanian
    as spoken in the region of Moldavia that was part of the USSR (now the Republic
    of Moldova). For this reason, while Romanian in Romania has been written in the
    Latin alphabet since the 19th Century, Moldovan, like most other minority languages
    of the Soviet Union, was given a Cyrillic alphabet in the 1930s. In 1989, the
    former Moldovian SSR officially switched to a Latin alphabet.\r\n\r\nThere is
    no OpenType language system tag for Livonian, but there should be. I'll mention
    it to Peter Constable at MS."
  created: '2009-03-16 14:19:51'
- author:
    name: Roger S. Nelsson
    picture: 114302
  body: Thanks, John - you're a true cornucopia of knowledge. :)
  created: '2009-03-16 17:09:02'
- author:
    name: Chris_Harvey
  body: "I seem to recall that the cedilla is used in one romanisation of Arabic to
    indicate emphatic consonants: \u015F z\u0327 d\u0327 \u0163. The t-cedilla for
    this purpose should not have the commaaccent. \r\n\r\nHowever, I see that the
    d + combining cedilla is looking like d + commaaccent in my system fonts here,
    which is incorrect for this Arabic transcription method."
  created: '2009-03-17 15:32:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>However, I see that the d + combining cedilla is looking like d + commaaccent
    in my system fonts here, which is incorrect for this Arabic transcription method.</em>\r\n\r\nThat
    suggests that the combination of d with combining cedilla is being mapped, at
    the character level, to U+1E0D, using Unicode canonical composition. This codepoint
    is almost always displayed as d with an undercomma, because that is the Unicode
    reference glyph form and, as used for Livonian, this is the correct form. There
    are a number of Unicode characters whose names and canonical decompositions involve
    cedilla, but whose use and reference glyph specifies the commaaccent form. You
    would need a specialised Arabic-transcription font in order to display the form
    with cedilla.\r\n\r\nI'm not familiar with this convention for Arabic transcription.
    Where is it used?"
  created: '2009-03-17 17:28:49'
- author:
    name: Chris_Harvey
  body: "<cite>That suggests that the combination of d with combining cedilla is being
    mapped, at the character level, to U+1E0D, using Unicode canonical composition.
    This codepoint is almost always displayed as d with an undercomma, because that
    is the Unicode reference glyph form and, as used for Livonian, this is the correct
    form. </cite>\r\n\r\nTrue, but there should be a way to produce a D + cedilla
    using the combining diacritic (U+0327) which produces the cedilla. If one wanted
    the D + commaaccent, one could either use the precomposed character U+1E10 or
    use D+ combining commaaccent (U+0326). Yes, the correct forms of U+1E10 and U+1E11
    use the commaaccent, regardless of their Unicode character name.\r\n\r\n<cite>There
    are a number of Unicode characters whose names and canonical decompositions involve
    cedilla, but whose use and reference glyph specifies the commaaccent form.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt
    is a pity that the cedillas and commaaccents were unified early on in Unicode.\r\n\r\n<cite>I\u2019m
    not familiar with this convention for Arabic transcription. Where is it used?</cite>\r\n\r\nOff-hand,
    it's used in National Geographic Atlases. Looking through my copy, there are the
    Iraqi cities of Al \u1E28a\u1E11r, Al Maw\u015Fil, Ash Sharq\u0101\u0163, Al K\u0101z\u0327im\u012Byah."
  created: '2009-03-18 18:06:09'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>True, but there should be a way to produce a D + cedilla using the combining
    diacritic (U+0327) which produces the cedilla.</em>\r\n\r\nThere are numerous
    ways it could be done, all of which are font-level solutions. If unicode normalisation
    form C is applied to text or if, like MS Uniscribe, the text engine performs buffered
    character-level substition of D + combining cedilla to U+1E10, then one needs
    either\r\n\r\na) a font for which the default glyph for U+1E10 is a D with cedilla
    (e.g. specialised font for Arabic transliteration); or\r\n\r\nb) a font which
    contains a [locl] feature subsitution of the default, commaaccent form of U+1E10
    to a variant glyph with a cedilla.\r\n\r\nThe latter solution raises the question
    of which language system tag would be appropriate for such a [locl] lookup. Theoretically,
    the obvious answer would be Arabic [ARA\_], so one would have an Arabic language
    system tag associated with a Latin [latn] script tag. In practice, I'm not sure
    whether this would work or not. If I have a spare half hour at some point I'll
    make a test in InDesign ME, and see what happens if one tags text in Latin characters
    as Arabic."
  created: '2009-03-18 18:46:50'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: "Sorry for bumping this thread, but I get this on compile:\r\n\r\n<code>\r\n[FATAL]
    <Facet-Regular> invalid token (text was \"\_\") [/Users/claus/Library/Application
    Support/FontLab/Studio 5/Features/fontlab.fea 26]\r\n</code>\r\n\r\nand that would
    be this line:\r\n<code>\r\n\_ sub [Scedilla scedilla] by [uni0218 uni0219];\r\n</code>\r\n\r\nThanks\r\nClaus"
  created: '2009-03-22 00:38:01'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: Okay, I fixed it. There was an invisible (in the OT panel) tab stop (or something)
    character that got pulled in from Adam's code on the Fontlab forum, when I copy
    pasted it. I could see it in the UFO thank God. Perhaps it's my Safari 4 beta
    playing tricks on me, but I don't think so since nothing weird shows up if I paste
    into Textmate or Pico. Go figure, or you might want to check if that is replicable
    in your neck of the woods Adam.
  created: '2009-03-22 01:17:19'
- author:
    name: Roger S. Nelsson
    picture: 114302
  body: "I had that same problem. Caused me some time of head-scratching, too, I can
    tell you... ;)\r\nHere is the needed code (copied and pasted from a working text-file:\r\n\r\nlanguagesystem
    DFLT dflt; # optional\r\nlanguagesystem latn dflt;\r\nlanguagesystem latn ROM;\r\nlanguagesystem
    latn MOL;\r\n\r\nfeature locl { # Localized Forms\r\n# Latin\r\nlanguage ROM exclude_dflt;
    # Romanian\r\nlookup locl_ROM { \r\n  sub [Scedilla scedilla] by [uni0218 uni0219];\r\n
    \ sub [uni0162 uni0163] by [uni021A uni021B];\r\n} locl_ROM;\r\nlanguage MOL exclude_dflt;
    # Moldavian\r\nlookup locl_ROM;\r\n} locl;\r\n\r\nWorks for me! :D"
  created: '2009-03-22 08:03:11'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: You need to be careful when copying feature code from a web page. Because
    of the limited html support in discussion forums, it's often difficult to get
    indentation to display properly (which are especially important to Python, for
    example), so all sorts of workarounds are used, such as using fixed spaces instead
    of normal spaces. Unfortunately, this breaks the code if you try to run it. To
    be safe, check any indents or white space in code you get from the web before
    running it.
  created: '2009-03-22 16:04:49'
date: '2009-03-14 11:29:21'
node_type: forum
title: Romanian locl feature (revisited ;)

---
