---
author:
  name: bendy
  picture: 112931
body: "Hi,\r\nHere's what I've been working on for the last week, taking a break from
  Eternal (in the serif crit section).\r\n\r\nI started with the intention of creating
  something very crisp and clean, following the current trend for roundy corners.
  I wanted the shapes to look slightly experimental, so tell me if they work or don't
  work yet. \r\n\r\nI wanted a large x-height and non-descending caps to work for
  small sizes and for screen use. It was a struggle to fit the tail of the g in there,
  and I had to break the rule with Q a little. I've got only autohinting at present,
  and need to work out how the off-verticals will work on screen (for example M anti-aliases
  rather badly).\r\n\r\nStrangely, it somehow looks like there's a bit of Optima in
  there, which I've only just noticed. I don't have numerals yet. Hate drawing numerals.\r\n\r\nI'll
  refrain from picking out individual characters for now to see what you guys think
  first.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Mintbanner2_3942.gif]"
comments:
- author:
    name: putmeon
    picture: 114551
  body: strangely or not, i fancy the thing it looks like modern version of optima,
    with good innovation! nice start!
  created: '2009-03-15 22:11:31'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Wow, a side project! Cool!\r\nThis is very interesting, Ben. Mmm. \r\n\r\nI
    had a slight Optima association too at first glance &ndash; I think it comes from
    the large \"M\" with its flaring stems. Other glyphs have a very current flavor
    (something in my brain says PSY/OPS but without having a clear association to
    any one font &ndash; maybe a hint of Eidetic [Modern]?). \r\nI think this contrast
    between more conventional and more experimental forms can be felt throughout the
    font, in the way you handle the contrast, or how \"independent\" the counterspace
    looks (oh here I go again\u2026). Like, I'm quite intrigued by the counterspace
    in say the \"a\" and the Ss, and that feels quite \"new\". And oh I dig the asymmetric
    \"U\". Other glyphs seem to have a more conventional concept of contrast and stroke
    (like the bpdq). \"M\" and \"N\" might even feel a little quaint in this context?
    A pretty interesting mixture, this.\r\n\r\nThough of course this is just a spontaneous
    impression from a distance; \r\nI'm looking forward to that PDF! Please post one
    soon. :-)"
  created: '2009-03-15 22:29:33'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Har, hi Nina! :) Thanks for your encouragement! It's funny I hadn't actually
    had Optima in my mind until I hit 'submit' for this thread. I'm glad you both
    like it anyway :D\r\n\r\nYou're right, I did look at Eidetic Modern! But that
    looked a bit scraggly to me so I didn't stay too close to its design. In fact
    the M and N were the only ones directly influenced by it. I guess the g is similar
    too.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/g_3674.gif]\r\nIt's really interesting
    you mention the independent counters, as I had some ideas from that Legato thread
    to shape the inner and outer contours differently. I'm not sure how effective
    it is in improving readability as I haven't set a block of text to try it out
    yet.\r\nI'm wondering about shaping the SE corner of the U a bit more cornerly.
    Like on the base of the b.\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-15 22:46:10'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Yeah great stuff. I dig how the white space seems to \"creep in\" on the
    black in this \"g\".* Some interesting figure/ground (or advancing/retreating)
    action. I have no idea what this would do for readability (one reason why I screamed
    for a PDF ;-) ), but it sure looks exciting up close. Makes me want to use it
    for display at about 200pt ;-)\r\n\r\n* At least South of the bowl &ndash; then
    the ear looks \"normal\" again. \r\nBtw, might there be a slight left lean to
    the tail? Maybe try extending the terminal a bit further to the left, and/or bringing
    the right side down a bit? (Edit: on second thought, maybe not. Really hard to
    judge without context.)\r\n\r\nI'm pretty excited about this. But Ernestine's
    calling\u2026 I'll be back ;-)"
  created: '2009-03-15 23:13:05'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: I can't seem to attach the pdf to the first post. Will try again tomorrow.
    Sorry! :(
  created: '2009-03-16 01:24:46'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: '[[http://typophile.com/files/Mint.pdf|Link to PDF]] '
  created: '2009-03-16 01:32:04'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "FYI, link doesn't work.\r\n\r\nWait a minute &ndash; aren't you in Europe?
    Welcome to the night owls' club ;-)"
  created: '2009-03-16 02:04:55'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "oh, yah, working on weekend hours!\r\nlet's see what i can do with the pdf."
  created: '2009-03-16 08:29:56'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: I like it, but I'll wait for that PDF to work to take a proper look at it.
    :)
  created: '2009-03-16 14:03:49'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Ben, maybe message an admin?\r\nAlternately, I guess you could try posting
    a blog entry and trying to attach it there, then link from here."
  created: '2009-03-16 16:08:38'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Thanks, Nina, already e-mailed someone. I tried attaching it on my Eternal
    thread but not listing it there, that was the link that didn't work. Bums. We'll
    have to be patient :)
  created: '2009-03-16 16:26:36'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Is my pdf working now? I do hope so! :)\r\nI switched to Firefox."
  created: '2009-03-16 19:16:51'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Yeah, the PDF works! \r\nHere are some thoughts. Though you might need more
    salt with this than usual (I'm in a bit of a sleep-deprived state).\r\n\r\nI really
    like the direction of this, but you know that already. :-)\r\nBefore getting into
    details, I think I have two \"bigger\" questions. \r\n\r\nThe first is how big
    a factor the idea of \"independent counterspace\" should be in the overall design.
    It's quite strongly present in some glyphs (like the \"g\"), more subtly present
    in others (like the \"O\" or \"U\"), and not very much there in the angular glyphs
    (where I'd imagine it's also hardest to pull off, at least if you want to keep
    the stems somewhat straight [see below]). \r\nThat may be a factor in what I said
    earlier about some glyphs feeling more \"experimental\" than others. I'm thinking
    that there should be some reconciliation between (a) counters that feel \"active\"
    and creeping in on the black, like in the \"a\" or \"s\", and counters that feel
    more like they're just there because that's how the stroke goes (like in the \"n\");
    or (b) terminals that feel like \"terminals\" of a \"stroke\" (like in the \"@\")
    or those that feel like (this is exaggerated) the rest of the black after the
    white has taken what it needs, like in the top of the \"a\".\r\nThough this is
    where salt comes in; because personally, I'm quite interested in, and excitable
    by, designs with \"active\" whitespace, like your \"g\" (I've come back here multiple
    times just to look at its tail up close. I would want it on my wall, life-sized)
    &ndash; but that might not be what matters most to <em>you</em> in this font!
    \r\n\r\nThe second question is about target usage/size. Isn't saying this is \"for
    text, display and web\" almost like saying \"for everything\"? I wonder if it
    isn't incredibly hard, if even possible, to make it work its best in text and
    on screen, <em>and</em> look its best in display.\r\nAs it stands, I personally
    think [as I said above ;-)] much of the special appeal of this font lies in the
    finer details of the contours, which of course only come out at large sizes. It
    makes me a bit sad to picture this on screen, where all of those subtle details
    will disappear into antialiased pixels\u2026 like I said above, I'd personally
    rather picture it large. Also, I feel it looks more \"novel\" at large sizes,
    since its \"current\" flavor depends to a degree on details. For instance, before
    you posted the \"g\" large (seems I can't stop talking about that glyph eh?),
    I was wondering if its architecture wasn't rather serious-serif-text-font-like
    for screen use, and didn't catch on to its exciting details at all.\r\nAs for
    readability at text sizes, I wonder how much the \"independent whitespace\" action
    does for it (and this is more of an open question than an informed statement),
    since most of it happens in smallish details rather than the overall concept &ndash;
    for instance, your verticals are still vertical. (Referring back to Legato, the
    way I understood it was there the idea of \"independent counters\" was directly
    connected to breaking the \"picket fence\" of straight verticals for better cohesion
    of word-images. So that's something else than you are doing, I'd surmise.)\r\n\r\nI'll
    get back to details later\u2026 need to sleep. ;-)\r\nBut this: the name rocks.
    Feels spot on."
  created: '2009-03-17 00:35:35'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Wow! Gosh, what a lot of words! Thank you for this. Been playing with the
    numerals and have a delicious 4. [img:sites/default/files/old-images/4_5174.gif]
    I'm playing with rotated counters and making things like the Z less uniform (but
    not twiddly!)\r\nYes, a life-sized g!\r\nI'll have to come back to your comments
    tomorrow as I also need to sleep. \xA6)\r\nI wasn't sure about the name at first,
    wanted it to be more subversive; but now I like it, and it does fit really well.
    Crisp.\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-17 00:42:48'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Oh, yes, when I say 'text display & web' I mean short passages of text, subheadings
    and the like. I thought the large x-height and wide proportions would be good
    for funky websites. But you are right, it shines better at massive sizes!
  created: '2009-03-17 00:45:29'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"what a lot of words! \r\n[\u2026] a delicious 4\"</em>\r\nOh! Nice.
    It's really not all about quantity. :-)\r\n \r\nYeah that <em>is</em> a yummy
    4! I wonder if some of that could carry over to the \"A\"/\"V\"/\"W\", which I
    find a bit boring frankly (what happened to the rounded inside corner that you
    have in the \"N\" &c.?). But yeah, don't make them \"twiddly\". :-)"
  created: '2009-03-17 00:52:23'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Yes. Wait for the next exciting iteration (not done yet)!
  created: '2009-03-17 00:53:11'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Of course. Please remember to sleep. (I know how it is!) :-)
  created: '2009-03-17 00:59:30'
- author:
    name: merkri
  body: "This is a great sans. I love it.\r\n\r\nIf I dig for something to improve
    about it, about the only thing I can say is that the lowercase t or its crossbar
    seems a little too short or something. I can't decide if I feel the same way about
    the f. Maybe I'm just tired, though.\r\n\r\nIt's great."
  created: '2009-03-17 06:18:14'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: I'll post the other numerals in a bit. Why do they take me ten times longer
    than the alphabetic glyphs?
  created: '2009-03-17 14:22:51'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "To answer Nina's ideas:\r\n\r\nRe the active counters, I wanted there to
    be a tension between the white and black, created through sometimes the white
    'winning' and sometimes the black. That's why the white sometimes spills over
    and sometimes follows the ductus. I think if the counters were always eating the
    black it would somehow dissolve the overall solidity?\r\nBut anyway, I'm hoping
    the black and white can look independent but yet equal in strength. (Both equally
    active)\r\n\r\nThere was some post somewhere here (I think) that said stuff about
    how some fonts look greyer than others, independently of the weight of the glyphs.
    It was more to do with how the shapes of contours and counters lock together affecting
    the crispness/contrast...wish I could find that. There were pictures of letters
    from different fonts of similar weights but some looked far clearer and sharper
    than others. I know there's been some admiration of how well Helvetica 'locks'
    the counterspaces within and between letters. (I don't claim I'll be able to achieve
    anything quite so bold here!)\r\n\r\nRe terminals, I'm going to redo the @ so
    the white space somehow is more active in the terminal. I might open out the apexes
    of VW etc to be slightly squared off like on the M. And of course the strokes
    need more flaring.\r\n\r\nI'll have a look at heightening the t.\r\n\r\nThanks!"
  created: '2009-03-17 15:46:13'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I am hoping other people will comment on this as well!\r\n\r\n<em>\"\u2026sometimes
    the white \u2019winning\u2019 and sometimes the black. That\u2019s why the white
    sometimes spills over and sometimes follows the ductus. I think if the counters
    were always eating the black it would somehow dissolve the overall solidity?\"</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    quite possible, yeah. Except maybe if you decide to make it an experimental display
    face and stop worrying about readability in text.\r\n\r\nYour \"battle\" imagery
    sounds like a Westernized notion of [[Notan]]*. ;-)\r\nAnd right now it is a battle,
    much like you describe it; more of a to-and-fro between competing partners than
    an active, tension-based <em>balance</em>. Even without bringing in such \"big\"
    concepts, I'm wondering about consistency I guess. To me say your \"n\" looks
    like it belongs in a different font than your \"a\" (by a difference of a few
    em units mind you); I guess the big question is how much you want to even things
    out, even with the premise of this being somewhat \"experimental\".\r\n\r\nTo
    actually adress some glyphs:\r\nI think that \"Q\" is looking a bit prude. :-)
    I might try making the tail short but strong, [very close to] horizontal, and
    cutting into the bottom of the bowl (not sticking in, more like the counter having
    a (near) straight horizontal on the bottom).\r\n\r\nAs you might guess, I love
    your spur-less \"b\", and of course I have to ask if you've tried that for the
    \"q\" as well? :-) And actually, also the \"u\". Like you said, I'd be curious
    too to see if it even works in the \"U\".\r\n\r\nYour \"c\" and \"e\" look to
    me like they have an underbite?\r\n\r\nI like the curve in the SW corner of the
    counter of the \"P\" (etc.), and am wondering how/if it would work in the hmn.\r\n\r\nYour
    \"K\" and \"k\" (for example) show that you're giving the verticals a lot of respect,
    which might make these straight and angular forms a bit boring in the overall
    context. I'm wondering if you might try playing with the straightness of the stems
    a bit. (Though this is precisely where I'm biased, because if you want to optimize
    this for screen use, you should probably introduce less detail strangeness and
    near-to-straightness than if it's a display face.)\r\n\r\n--\r\nOh, I'd be interested
    in reading that other thread you mentioned, if you can find the link."
  created: '2009-03-17 21:47:46'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Yep. That curve on the counter of the P is a good fit for the n. I'm not
    so sure about the a.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pan_4593.gif]\r\nI
    tried the spurless q, didn't work. I think I didn't try terribly hard as I liked
    the dq design. Might try again. Will also give the U and u a go. I think it might
    impair the u's readability. Especially small.\r\nYes, c and e do need a dentist.
    (This really only took a few nights' work so lots of the shapes are significantly
    sketchy so far!) The Q is another one of those needing a makeover.\r\nI'm not
    sure what you mean about K and k :?\r\nOh, my numerals also need lots more work
    but here's a glance so you get an idea. You don't need to tell me 2 should also
    be in that queue for cosmetic surgery.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mintnumerals_3634.gif]\r\nAlas,
    I was searching for that other thread and I can't even remember if it was here
    on T-phile. Sorry, will keep a look out."
  created: '2009-03-17 22:27:58'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/MintW_5740.gif] I had something like
    this in mind for the VW and perhaps others.'
  created: '2009-03-17 22:49:55'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I think what you show in the MNW is something like what I meant about the
    Kk. Now there's whitespace pushing in. Before it looked a bit like you had a concept
    of active white space, but didn't really know how to apply it to the straights/angulars,
    so those got more \"exact\"/\"normal\" compared with the more \"free-flowing\"
    curvy glyphs.\r\nWhat are you doing in the \"H\"? Can't see anything (except on
    the outside of the stems). The counters look as peaceful as a mountain lake in
    the dawn. ;-)\r\n\r\nBtw I really like your \"4\", but if that's where your \"2\"
    is going (I think it's intriguing), you might even try a \"4\" with a slightly
    curved diagonal? :->\r\n\r\n<em>\"This really only took a few nights\u2019 work\"</em>\r\nYou
    know, that impresses me beyond belief. Let me apologize if I'm being too anal
    about details already."
  created: '2009-03-17 22:59:22'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Ha! No, the H is pretty unsophisticated. I just put it there for the proportions.
    Somehow there needs to be balance and I can't see how yet. I'm worried it'll end
    up like Template Gothic if I start adding curves at all the corners. Actually
    that was another font I have been looking at a bit. It's not the look I want here.
    I really want it to stay 'clean' and already the M and N look slightly subversive!
    I think W works though. Think I need to move some inflection points. \r\n\r\n>\u201CThis
    really only took a few nights\u2019 work\u201D\r\nOk, so what I meant was the
    constructing only took a few nights. I have been puzzling over a few of the letters
    and forms like the serif on a in my head for a few weeks. What a funny world in
    my head! :) \r\n\r\nDetails...yes, no the feedback is great. I'll try to keep
    up with you! There are so many things to fix. It seems we have different approaches
    to letterbuilding. You seem to do one or two letters at a time and figure them
    out in relation to the other existing ones. I think I'm just plunging into the
    whole lot and then joggling the hastily-made letters until they eventually look
    nice together with no real appreciation of the background and theory of type design.
    But it works for me ;) Creativity's a funny thing.\r\n\r\nThe only reason the
    2 looks so wacky is I can't easily draw straight spined ones. I like the bottom
    and top and have to figure out the middle.\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-17 23:26:36'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Here's a go at the K. I tried making the connection have curved counters but
    that was too much. There had to be other ways to break up the straightness, so
    the two sides of the nonvertical stroke are now more independent. Left is the
    original one.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/MintKK_6539.gif]
  created: '2009-03-17 23:52:20'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Does anyone else dislike the G?
  created: '2009-03-17 23:56:30'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Overall, I think that this is more promising than Optima. Good stuff!\r\nThe
    numerals seem more expressive than the letters, though.\r\nWhere can I see the
    G, btw? The PDF is not linking for me."
  created: '2009-03-18 08:37:37'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: The pdf link at the top on the original post should be working now.
  created: '2009-03-18 10:24:02'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Well, there is something about the G and the e that fights together. My 2\xA2"
  created: '2009-03-18 11:55:02'
- author:
    name: merkri
  body: "<em>Does anyone else dislike the G?</em>\r\n\r\nI didn't think about it before,
    but I would think about getting rid of the spur completely--I feel like it eliminates
    some opportunity for playing with curvature/counterspace dynamics, which are a
    strength of the typeface. Alternatively, you might play with smoothly extending
    the curvature all the way up to the arm; right now to me it feels like the spur
    sort overwhelms that part of the G--I feel like it's \"covering up\" something
    rather than being part of a single form. "
  created: '2009-03-18 18:25:38'
- author:
    name: merkri
  body: I don't know--now that I look at it again, the spur seems to add some consistency
    vertically--e.g., with H, E, F, etc. The inside of the G still bothers me though.
  created: '2009-03-18 18:28:21'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Looking good! The bottom of 'j' looks a little too quaint for the font IMO.
    I would definitely try a tailed 'U'.\r\n\r\nWhat would it look like to introduce
    some of the unparallel contour independence in 'Z' to the horizontals of other
    letters like 'E' and 'F'?\r\n\r\nI like those 4:52 changes to 'K'."
  created: '2009-03-19 16:45:39'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "t: Curve into the tail looks a little weak and out of character. It starts
    to high for one thing. Flip the n 180 and compare the transition.\r\n\r\nr: Looks
    like a chopped off n. It's decent, but could use more weight in the terminal,
    and possible a slightly lower join.\r\n\r\ne: a tad wide, and back leaning.\r\n\r\nzZ:
    More flair in the arms\r\n\r\nv: too wide.\r\n\r\nJL: too wide. The poor people
    LJUBLJANA!\r\n\r\nij: Dots a tad too small. Check to make sure they are the same
    size, they appear to hint differently. Also, conisder raising them a tad.\r\n\r\nround
    letters (o b d p q) consider a touch more squareness inside, and a little more
    width.\r\n\r\n@: I prefer the a to sit on the baseline for harmony with the lc.
    You can make it align with caps via case-sensitive forms. LC is more likely Blahblah@blahblah.com\r\n\r\nH:
    tad wider?\r\n\r\n\r\nIt would be helpful to see a text setting that is more representative.
    Paragraphs various point sizes, starting at text sizes. As always, these are suggestions..
    your instincts are obviously very good so listen with a grain of salt! :-)"
  created: '2009-03-19 18:28:40'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Wicked! These are all really helpful suggestions. \r\n\r\nI'm already working
    on some of those idiosyncrasies like making the Zz more flared and copying that
    over onto the EF for example. \r\n\r\nI'm especially interested to see what might
    happen if the counters on obdpq are more square as that would obviously make them
    very much independent of the base.\r\n\r\nWill get back to you with the results.
    Thanks :)"
  created: '2009-03-19 19:03:58'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "So here's what happened to e:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Mintee_4831.gif]\r\nThe
    crossbar is slightly lower, and the terminal is now left of the corner."
  created: '2009-03-19 21:06:13'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "And G went this way:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/MintGG_3680.gif]"
  created: '2009-03-19 21:30:29'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">t: Curve into the tail looks a little weak and out of character. It starts
    to high for one thing. Flip the n 180 and compare the transition.\r\n\r\nInteresting.
    Actually I rotated the n by 180 degrees and the curve on it has a larger radius
    (both inner and outer curves of the n are highlighted in red). \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mintt_3811.gif]\r\n\r\nStill,
    I have added more rigour to the t curve and you are right it looks better with
    a smaller radius and more weight on the tail.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/minttt_5576.gif]\r\n\r\nI
    can't decide (and this goes for the whole font) whether the terminals should be
    vertical or slanted and if slanted whether they should all be cut at right angles
    to the curves or something else. I actually prefer the angle the original t is
    cut off, though the terminal is not heavy enough. So many choices! :)"
  created: '2009-03-19 21:56:01'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "So I wasn't happy with that last one and tried again:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/minttt2_5598.gif]"
  created: '2009-03-19 22:01:48'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I think my experiment with U crashed.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/futaleufu_5781.gif]\r\nGreen
    dots show the original one. The other 4 are all different.\r\nAnd I'm not convinced
    about the flaring arms of E either. Maybe too much?"
  created: '2009-03-21 12:22:13'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I flared the thins on Z, reduced the flare on E and N, went back to the original
    U but tweaked the curve and made the right stem flare, and added a question mark.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/zambia_6461.gif]\r\nIt's
    suddenly reminding me of Peignot, slightly, with the vertical stress and letterforms."
  created: '2009-03-21 14:02:26'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: I actually like the upper right U in the U-experiment image. I don't know
    if it's necessarily better than the original, but it's worth exploring.
  created: '2009-03-21 15:30:40'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'Of the variants of U, I like the one with the true tail best, but your tailless
    U looks great. I see Peignotesque flavor here too (particularly the A). To my
    eyes the Z''s tapers get a touch too thin. '
  created: '2009-03-21 16:43:49'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "The \"U\" experiment is interesting. I agree with Jelmar about liking the
    top-right most (and also about not being sure it's better; but it is intriguing).
    Though I'm not sure if the \"corner\" shouldn't come down a tiny hint more (but
    not as much as in the bottom-left one, the corner seems too black there?).\r\n\r\n\"Z\":
    Agree it is a bit much, but it *rocks* :-)\r\nMaybe you could try something like
    this in the \"M\" too?"
  created: '2009-03-21 19:05:14'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: This is evoving into a delicious typeface, I'm really sorry I haven't paid
    attention to it earlier, guess I was too deeply into my own work. The lowercase
    t is really glorious now, and the new Z is marvellous. However, the M doesn't
    quite match the N, Z, V and W in terms of "whitespace-creeping", perhaps you should
    gnaw a little on the middle peak and hollow out the armpits slightly more. I would
    have put some more weight on the middle stroke of the E, and perhaps slightly
    more tapering on the I and l. I'm really looking forward to see this further developed.
  created: '2009-03-21 19:32:58'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">hollow out the armpits slightly more.\r\n\r\nhahahahahahahaha! Oh goodness!
    That's the funniest thing I've read on Typophile!\r\n\r\nHere's what I did with
    U.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/UUU_4983.gif]\r\nI'm gonna keep the left
    one as the normal U, as the slightly flared right stem echoes the other caps.
    I might include an alternate. Nina's suggestion is on the right; the middle one
    is a kind of halfway stage. I like the asymmetry but it does kind of remind me
    of Dax/Barmeno. And I can't flare the right stem with the 'corner' there, it looks
    very odd. \r\n\r\nI'm enjoying making this. Here are the numerals with a bit more
    work done.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mintnumerals2_6705.gif]"
  created: '2009-03-21 20:17:12'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Here's a quick try with the A and M (gnawing the armpits)[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mintzam_5800.gif]\r\nI
    think they work nicely."
  created: '2009-03-21 20:25:39'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Great stuff, Ben.\r\nI think you're on a good way to lose any Optima connection
    too, FWIW ;-)"
  created: '2009-03-21 20:28:26'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: Yes, that looks fab. Do you think the center point of the M wants to go a
    little to the left?
  created: '2009-03-21 20:34:34'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Yes, you're right. Thanks :)
  created: '2009-03-21 20:54:20'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: If you do include a "quasi-tailed" U alternate, do you think it should be
    a little wider? To my eye the different shape calls for a wider counter.
  created: '2009-03-21 21:12:03'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Yes, nice observation. I wonder why <cite>that</cite> is.
  created: '2009-03-21 23:57:19'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: New a on the right. [img:sites/default/files/old-images/mintaqua_4814.gif]
    I like the reinforced verticality the top terminal provides.
  created: '2009-03-22 10:57:56'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: 'Yes, that new a is good. But is that straight vertical terminal just a little
    too stiff? Do you think a slight rounding could work? '
  created: '2009-03-22 11:13:32'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Do you mean to shorten the straight end of the terminal so the 'corners'
    have a larger radius? Or get rid of the straight section and have a teardrop ending?
    Hm, will see what I can try.\r\n\r\nHere's the new d on the right. Is is too fat?
    I added 20 units. [img:sites/default/files/old-images/mintdad_5815.gif]"
  created: '2009-03-22 11:25:38'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Here's the a experiment. [img:sites/default/files/old-images/mintaaaa_3739.gif]\r\nI
    think I prefer number 2, without the rounding. It fits better with the other letters?
    I tried tilting the terminal the other way in number 4. It might work next to
    an r, as a contextual alternate. But if this is a display face it would be quite
    distracting I think."
  created: '2009-03-22 11:42:14'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Number 2 would be my favorite too. #3 gets a bit too \"lyrical\" maybe?\r\nThough
    seen next to the \"S\", I wonder if your original \"a\" (that's the one on the
    far left, yes?) doesn't still match the font best. Hm.\r\n\r\nBtw, might there
    something wrong with the weight of the \"y\"? It looks a bit heavy here."
  created: '2009-03-22 11:54:26'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Yes, y is dark. I can perhaps thin the left arm but the real problem is the
    dark patch where the tail joins, and I can't reduce it without changing the premise
    of active counters. I'll see what happens when I gnaw the top counter.\r\n\r\nYes,
    the original is on the left; it does fit well with S. Difficult to compromise."
  created: '2009-03-22 12:06:47'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Would a notch under 'y''s left stroke (like [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/fontfont/ff-meta/pro-medium/?testdrive=custom%3D0%26seed%3D35%26dock%3D0%26size%3D72%26w%3D720%26src%3Dcustom%26text%3Dy%26fg%3D000000%26bg%3Dffffff%26goodies%3Dot.liga|Meta,
    for example]]) be too \"stroky,\" or could that be achieved as an \"active counter\"?\r\n\r\nI
    agree about 'a' #2, though #3 is not bad."
  created: '2009-03-22 12:52:57'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: 'Gee, this is difficult. Isolated, I think the second and third a both work
    well, but I have to agree that the original''s direction suits the face best.
    How about a compromise between the original and number three, by marginally increasing
    the radius of the no. 1 terminal and making the top shape slightly more curved?
    Er, this is just thinking aloud.  '
  created: '2009-03-22 13:00:03'
- author:
    name: merkri
  body: 'I''d have to vote for the original a. It seems more consistent with the other
    letters. Number 2 is good too, though. '
  created: '2009-03-24 19:34:05'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Ok so I'm not sure whether I should continue on this. \r\n\r\nSeeing a lorry
    (truck) today, I suddenly got a bit worried some letters are really close to Miles
    Newlyn's (much more polished) logotype for Sainsbury's supermarket. [img:sites/default/files/old-images/sainsburys_3902.gif]\r\nIt
    seems the logotype has subconsciously been in my head all along. The proportions,
    x-height and even the shapes are almost identical! \r\n\r\nI'm not sure if a full
    glyph set would have been developed for Sainsbury's, but I don't agree with plagiarism.\r\n\r\nThe
    choices seem to be:\r\n1. Keep developing Mint as a natural process and not pay
    attention to the similarities with Sainsbury's; after all every font is somewhat
    derivative;\r\n2. Keep developing Mint but intentionally differentiate it from
    Sainsbury's; this may risk altering some of the things that I really like about
    it.\r\n3. Stop work on it?\r\n\r\nSo, typophiles, please help! What would you
    advise? :S"
  created: '2009-03-24 20:16:22'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "I don't think they look that close.  Keep going on your own.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2009-03-25 02:08:47'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: 'That''s reassuring. I got maybe a bit over worried: it''s not cool to copy. '
  created: '2009-03-25 08:04:43'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: 'Bendy, designing type is really exciting, but your experience is what I find
    the most difficult aspect of it: we pick up visual cues all the time, below the
    conscious level, and they may surface at any time. On the other hand, people thinking
    about type share some trends, so it''s quite possible that you will do something
    that others will do almost simultaneously, without any copying. With so many people
    working on type design nowadays, it would be a miracle if you''d get to the finished,
    polished stage of any of your fonts without a confrontation like this. Just keep
    going, you approach is original enough. See where it takes you. Best of luck.'
  created: '2009-03-25 11:42:57'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: That is really good advice. It's just a bit disappointing to realise what
    you think is your idea perhaps wasn't as original as you thought! Thanks :)
  created: '2009-03-25 12:46:29'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "You're welcome. Looking at the G again, did you consider something like this?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture3_6240.png]"
  created: '2009-03-25 14:09:25'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: I did try that, with a bit of a round corner, think it may be a good solution.
    Will post a revised pdf with the 'gnawed' counters and better cohesion later so
    you can see what you think of the G. It looks narrow too, for a slightly extended
    font. Thanks :)
  created: '2009-03-25 14:35:59'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: That Sainsbury's logo looks clumsy and sluggish next to your elegant letters.
    I'm confident you'll make your typeface what those letters wish they were. Keep
    up the good work!
  created: '2009-03-25 16:06:16'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Actually I quite admire Newlyn's work on the whole. This must have been designed
    to withstand printing at small sizes on packaging, not as a display face. \r\nNevertheless
    your comments are good to hear! Will keep going with this, watch this space. Thanks
    :)"
  created: '2009-03-25 17:03:52'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Yeah, I would also just keep developing it. \r\n\r\nI've had something like
    that a while back too, when I was designing a serif typeface. I had been working
    on that one for over a year, and somewhere in the end of that year influences
    from another typeface creeped in subconsciously. In the end it looked too much
    like the other typeface, but luckily I had some backup .vfb's from before I was
    influenced by the other design. So I could basically pick it up from there."
  created: '2009-03-25 18:26:23'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: New pdf at the top. In a bit of a rush! Hope it works. Look forward to hearing
    comments!
  created: '2009-04-03 17:04:34'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I know you're going for wide, but that y strikes me as unfittingly big. Maybe
    just raise the intersection a little to mitigate the counter size?\r\n\r\nTittles
    a touch too low?\r\n\r\nBottom half of ampersand could be wider.\r\n\r\nb's bowl
    seems much more dynamic in shape than that of d/p/q.\r\n\r\nI wonder if these
    flaring strokes will pose problems for the intended uses of screen/web. I get
    jaggies galore looking at it on screen now. That comes down to hinting I suppose,
    which remains unfortunately opaque to me yet (which I'll have to figure out for
    my own font soon).\r\n\r\nK, k, Q, and q are just great!"
  created: '2009-04-03 18:12:01'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Yup, hinting's not going to be fun. Let me know if you come across any how-to-hint
    instructions anywhere!\r\nI'll have a look at the tittles. The y is driving me
    crazy. I didn't want to have the whitespace cut into the bottom like in Meta (I
    did that trick in Eternal too) but it means there's a lot of black under the join,
    which is why there's a lot of white above. Hm, will see what bringing the join
    up does. I can't get b right. If it has a circular bowl the bottom join looks
    rubbish, but yes the sheared bowl doesn't quite fit with the other glyphs. The
    same was true on q but looks ok there I think. I'm still not quite sure about
    the Q's tail. Ideally it shouldn't descend at all, so I might bring it up a bit
    (but then it crashes into other letters unless it's shorter, then it looks stubby.
    I tried curved tails in all directions and it definitely looks better straight.)\r\nThanks
    :)"
  created: '2009-04-05 22:05:32'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Ben, thank you for making the \"g\" so prominent in your newest PDF.&nbsp;&nbsp;;-)\r\n\r\nI
    feel your pain about the \"Q\", too many options in that glyph! I think yours
    is pretty cool, though something about it seems a bit goofy/uncomfortable to me.
    It's almost like the tail was a bit\u2026 self-conscious. OK, that doesn't make
    sense. Maybe if it was slightly heavier?\r\n\r\nThe \"q\" I love to bits! I think
    it's beautiful. \r\nAnd the \"b\" is very different indeed. Maybe it could be
    just a bit wider at the bottom? Its NE \"pull\" seems a bit extreme. It also looks
    rather narrow as is.\r\n\r\nSpeaking of widths, in \"zephyrs\" I wonder if the
    \"h\" is a hair narrow compared to the (voluptuously round) \"p\"?\r\n\r\nI'm
    not sure about the \"k\", it feels pretty\u2026 flamboyant? :-)\r\n\r\nYour \"s\"
    is great! I'm envious. ;-)\r\n\r\nAgree about the \"y\", I'd try just raising
    the left diagonal to make the bowl smaller.\r\n\r\n\"z\" strikes me as a bit too
    light in text (\"pizza\").\r\n\r\nBTW, sorry bout not saying anything about your
    Sainsbury incident yet. I was sick and pretty incoherent, so haven't been posting
    too much. For the record, I agree that yours is more interesting. The Sainsbury
    type is nice, but seems a bit more sleek and forgettable. In any case, please
    keep going: It's wonderful to see this evolve. "
  created: '2009-04-05 23:31:23'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Yep, thought you'd like a nice big g!\r\n\r\nI'm really pleased the q is
    going down so well. I really want the b to be attractive too. Gosh, it's such
    a multidimensional balancing act with all the widths and shapes and weights and
    flares and goodness knows what else. I wonder if I've over-extended the dp and
    q. The z does look light.\r\n\r\nThis <cite>is</cite> a good place to be. Thanks
    everyone :)"
  created: '2009-04-06 00:58:18'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"Gosh, it\u2019s such a multidimensional balancing act with all the
    widths and shapes and weights and flares and goodness knows what else\"</em>\r\nHell,
    yes! And the most evil thing is how you can't even isolate the variables. Like,
    you change an angle on a diagonal and then it <em>looks</em> like the whole thing
    is wayy too narrow. And then you change it back and then it's too heavy. And then
    you put in a trap and then it's just bumpy. Argh.\r\nNow if it wasn't so addictive\u2026
    and beautiful\u2026 :-)"
  created: '2009-04-06 01:12:18'
- author:
    name: johnnydib
    picture: 116018
  body: "Very good name for the typeface :D\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-11 15:07:29'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Thanks :)\r\n\r\nI'm having trouble getting some of the letters to fit. I
    can't tell quite what's wrong with them so can anyone suggest why they don't fit?\r\n\r\nG.
    It still looks freaky and I can't tell why. Is it too wide? Is the crossbar too
    high? Is it the odd SE curve?\r\n\r\nQ. The tail. Most fonts with similar proportions
    seem to have a tail that dangles off the bottom, but I really don't want that
    style. Has anyone seen other fonts with a horizontal tail like mine?\r\n\r\nb.
    Yes, it does have a twist that needs resolving. I think I can play with that and
    see what happens. \r\n\r\n1. I can't get an effective head serif on it. I wanted
    a wide shape there but it looks very much like a tilted 7. I don't want foot serifs
    on it but perhaps I should try that?\r\n\r\nThe other things I've noticed are
    the incorrect stress on # and the \xA3 needs much more of a curved spine. I'm
    not sure the comma is the right shape.\r\n\r\nCraig, I wonder if the top of the
    ampersand should be smaller, rather than the bottom getting bigger?\r\n\r\nI'm
    hoping the spacing on this will be easier than on Eternal, as there aren't serifs
    and the straights are straight.\r\n\r\nTaking a break now :)"
  created: '2009-04-11 20:06:58'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Some horizontal Q's:\r\nUnivers and Avenir and Serifa\r\nRotis Sans and Semi
    Sans\r\nCorbel\r\n\r\n<em>I wonder if the top of the ampersand should be smaller,
    rather than the bottom getting bigger?</em>\r\n\r\nMaybe so, or maybe a combination
    of the two.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-12 01:04:50'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "So I fiddled with the ear and bowl of my g:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mintg_5322.gif]\r\n\r\nAnd
    the tail of Q, which because it was lower than the baseline, made the glyph look
    tall rather than wide. \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mintq_4936.gif]\r\n\r\nMore
    soon :)"
  created: '2009-04-14 22:27:20'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: new = g with the curvy underear and Q with the higher tail? You may have to
    fit "before" and "after" labels into these animations! (Actually I find animations
    easy to see changes but a bit more difficult to evaluate.)
  created: '2009-04-14 23:52:37'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Sorry, that's right. :)
  created: '2009-04-15 00:00:43'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Ok, so there's a new pdf up top. I started generating the punctuation, symbols
    and extended Latin glyphs, and even thought about alternate caps which may or
    may not work. I'm much happier with G and Q, and have tweaked bdpq and widened
    o a lot. Minor changes on \xA3, zero and e.\r\n\r\nI realise I need to go back
    to the numerals again. Especially their sidebearings. After looking at Praxis
    I redesigned the 7 too. Like it. \r\n\r\nApologies for the overlap on some of
    the composites.\r\n\r\nHow's the spacing looking overall? And are K and k still
    looking too interesting? ;) \r\n\r\nAnything else that isn't quite working?"
  created: '2009-05-05 01:44:56'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Good progress!\r\n\r\nOverall spacing is too tight to my taste. \r\n\r\nAre
    O/o thicker on the right than the left?\r\n\r\nPeriod and comma should be quite
    a bit bigger, I think. Apostrophe and its relatives, too.\r\n\r\nSquircular copyright
    is cool!\r\n\r\nb's looking good. \r\n\r\nI think your big wide figures are working
    quite well and mesh with the caps well, too.\r\n\r\nIs pertenthousand really a
    glyph? :-) Array of bullets is great.\r\n\r\nOkay, I've got to say this and then
    duck the shoes thrown by Nina and you - I'm not convinced by the g. :-\\ I think
    my hangup is the weakness of its SE corner, or the too-great contrast between
    that thin and the thickened quasiserif terminal at the SW. Plus is looks relatively
    narrow. It's just jumping out to me in text as a wrong sort. (All of which is
    not to say that it wouldn't still look great blown up and hung on Nina's wall.
    :-) )"
  created: '2009-05-05 04:02:31'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Thanks Craig! Good to have some crit :)\r\nIf I said this was not intended
    to be a font for body text would your suggestions about the period and comma and
    spacing be different? I'm thinking of Mint as a display font, also suitable for
    web and short runs of text. That's because it works well at large sizes but also
    the clean simple shapes and smooth counters render well on screen at 10-13 point
    (even at this unhinted stage). (Admittedly I need to figure out some fix for the
    jaggies at larges sizes on screen.) Perhaps I've misrepresented my intention by
    setting it in paragraphs on the pdf. I think I'm more inclined towards narrow
    spacing but if it's even narrow for display use then I'll add some more air in
    there and beef up the punctuation.\r\n\r\n>Are O/o thicker on the right than the
    left?\r\nIt's possible, though not intentional. I did it purely by eye and haven't
    measured anything. Is the degree of optical correction necessary for symmetry
    the same for everyone?\r\n\r\nI wasn't too sure about the squircular copyright,
    but will leave it for the time being. \r\n\r\nNumerals. Hm. There's something
    about them that's not quite working, especially the 1 and 2. Good to hear you
    think they mesh well. I like that word.\r\n\r\nHere's a preview of the alternates
    in context:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/MintAlts_4124.gif]\r\n\r\nAwwww!
    You don't like g?!? It seems to me to follow the same pattern as s and the contrast
    is about the same as o, maybe a bit too much you're right. Maybe I can tug some
    of the weight of the crossbar down into that SE corner. You know, looking at it
    now, it looks kind of light next to the other letters. I originally designed it
    bigger then shrank it down so maybe that's where the weight has gone. As for widening
    it, I think the head would become too oblong. Somehow I'm reluctant to change
    it but you could be right, it could take the font to a whole new level. I don't
    like killing my babies...waah! "
  created: '2009-05-05 20:57:05'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Yes, if this is truly a display font then the punctuation size and spacing
    might be fine. And I probably would change your specimen accordingly. \r\n\r\nAnd
    yes, I would say first thing to do on the 'g' is give that SE corner more weight
    - that may very well be all it needs.*\r\n\r\nI forgot to mention one other thing
    before - I'm bothered by the low crossbar of 't'.\r\n\r\n*Did you consider offering
    an alternate 'g'? I think your b/d/p/q have wound up among the best and most characteristic
    letterforms of Mint, so I'd be interested in seeing what you could do with a one-story
    'g'."
  created: '2009-05-05 21:32:21'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "OK, finally got a coherent bit of time to look at the new PDF! This is cool
    stuff, Ben. \r\nOverall, I love the level of detailing. It seems very carefully
    designed. Like, there's even a lil' curve where the ogonek connects! Sweet.\r\nI
    wonder how large the \"g\" will be in the next sample. ;-)\r\n\r\nSome detail
    thoughts (salt to taste):\r\n\r\n&ndash; No shoe-throwing on my part, but yes
    I still like the \"g\". I'm not married to every coordinate of every node, it's
    mostly the white space in the tail, esp the join, that just kills me. Overall,
    the glyph still looks good to my eyes (but what do I know!)\r\n&ndash; I now wonder
    if the top-right of the \"s\" isn't recoiling a tiny hair.\r\n&ndash; The \"fl\"
    ligature looks very nice!\r\n&ndash; On reading, I'm not sure if the bottom terminals
    of the \"c\" and \"e\" don't jump out a bit much. It might just be my bad printer,
    that or my eyes are a bit type-tired.\r\n&ndash; Spacing: Looks mostly quite good
    to me. I'm thinking your straight-straights could be a bit looser \u2013 look
    at \"verticillasters\" in the bottom paragraph, the \"ill\" seems to create a
    bit of a dark spot?\r\n\r\n&ndash; Something looks strange about the \"C\" compared
    to \"G\" and \"O\" \u2013 might it be a bit narrow?\r\n&ndash; I'm not sure the
    way the \"Q\" pulls up its right-side belly to accommodate the tail doesn't look
    a bit cramped now. :-/ In any case, I think it looks wide.\r\n\r\n&ndash; I dig
    your cap eszett. It has an interesting balance of being angular and rounded.\r\n&ndash;
    There might however be a problem with your lc eszett: Seeing it next to the longs,
    it looks like it stops short of ascender height? I'd say that's a bad idea \u2013
    it tends to \"look wrong\" to Germans. I would just make it ascend all the way
    \u2013 they do look like they're too massive, but I believe Germans don't mind
    that. :-\\\r\n&ndash; Your eth is really nice. Making a bold version may be problematic
    though. I think you have enough room to raise the crossbar a bit.\r\n&ndash; Dieresis:
    I would probably move the dots a bit farther apart (mind collisions in stuff like
    \"f\xE4\" though). They might well be a hair smaller too. Don't make them *too*
    small \u2013 but they definitely don't need to be equal to the tittle.\r\n&ndash;
    I'm personally no fan of the cap alternates (they look very 70s to me), but that's
    so subjective that you really shouldn't care.\r\n\r\n&ndash; Numerals are cool.
    I love the new \"7\"!\r\n&ndash; One thing I'm unsure about is the bottom-left
    of the \"2\"; might be a bit too roundy? Dunno.\r\n\r\n&ndash; The asterisk is
    nice! I only wonder about its strange rotation. It looks a bit like it's spinning
    around. :)\r\n&ndash; Your guillemets seem more boring than they need to be. Maybe
    they can borrow some features from the asciicircum (? the thing next to the pilcrow).\r\n&ndash;
    I love the @ sign! Looks great.\r\n&ndash; Currency signs look sweet. I'm wondering
    if the Euro could be a bit wider? But that's probably connected to \"C\" above.\r\n&ndash;
    Punctuation: I agree with Craig that some of this should be a bit more distinct/bold/big.
    The comma seems especially small, as do the apostrophes / single quotes. And at
    smaller sizes (like in your 8pt sample), the semicolon looks too similar to the
    colon. I think these thingies could also be spaced a bit farther away from whatever
    precedes them, to stand out more (especially important for reading on screen,
    I presume).\r\n\r\nNow I'll lean back and enjoy watching this proceed. It's really
    sweet. I mean\u2026 seriously crisp and refreshing! ;-)  "
  created: '2009-05-10 20:08:34'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Thanks Nina, really useful detailed observations...I'm sure I can get the
    g even bigger, if I zoom into its tail next time :) \r\n\r\nGlad the 'crisp and
    refreshing' idea seems to have turned out well. \r\n\r\nNot sure what happened
    with lc eszett; I thought I made it with an f originally but it seems to have
    shrunken badly. Thanks for helping with the dieresis too...I'm not really used
    to how it looks. 2 is my Achilles heel. Something about the glyphs that open to
    the left makes them really tough.\r\n\r\nSomeone mentioned the spinning asterisk
    on Eternal before, I think it might be a trademark glyph for me ;)\r\n\r\nI think
    @ turned out good too! I did try different guillemets more tapered but they looked
    rubbish somehow. I'll include them in the next pdf so you can see what I mean.\r\n\r\nI'll
    enlarge the punctuation and see what can be done about f_i which was more an experiment
    than a good idea.\r\n\r\nI think I preferred the & with loops more equal in size.
    I might try a classical shape for it as an alternate too. Something like in Barmeno,
    which has a good ampersand. I don't somehow like my question mark either. Perhaps
    the same story as 2.\r\n\r\nI didn't miss your comment about a bold version...hah,
    well! I'd love to try it :) Once I'm happy with the Medium, I'll do a Craig and
    post some ideas so you can advise what kind of bold and/or italic to tackle next.\r\n\r\nI
    like the idea of a monocular g. Will consider it for an alt.\r\n\r\nThanks guys,
    good crit :D\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-10 21:29:44'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I'm rather pleased with the way g.alt has turned out:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Minteggy_4738.gif]\r\nAnd
    I've widened the standard g, made the whole thing a bit heavier and put more weight
    into the tail.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/minteggy3_5155.gif]"
  created: '2009-05-12 21:30:15'
- author:
    name: Martijn van Berkel
    picture: 116039
  body: "Really nice typeface!\r\nMaybe you could try to turn over the top of the
    5, like the 7. ;)\r\n\r\nKUTGW! :)\r\n\r\nKind regards,\r\nMartijn van Berkel"
  created: '2009-05-12 21:53:16'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: On the g.alt, nailed it! :-)
  created: '2009-05-12 22:36:30'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Man, those are some seriously nice \"g\"s. Wow. Yum!\r\n\r\nThe regular \"g\"
    looks a bit angrier now. Probably the determined ear coupled with the new tenseness
    of the tail? Or maybe it's just me. \r\nIn any case, I really like it. I even
    like the new one. ;)"
  created: '2009-05-12 22:53:39'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Angry? I wasn't aiming for angry! Actually I was aiming for cool. Oh dear
    :/
  created: '2009-05-13 09:42:19'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Ben, mind the salt!\r\nMaybe \"angry\" was a bad word. But I would say it
    looks more \"determined\", \r\nmore self-confident somehow, more assertive. In
    a good way. The old one \r\nwas a bit \"limper\".\r\nBut maybe I'm just listening
    to too much angry music at the moment. ;-)"
  created: '2009-05-13 10:05:04'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I think the tail is a bit too squared on the right side. I'll loosen it up
    a bit and perhaps do reversed contrast (exciting!) so the parallel horizontals
    are heavy.\r\n\r\nThe 2 needed a larger top counter, I think:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mintnew2a_5968.gif]\r\n\r\nThanks
    for all the encouragement everyone! :)"
  created: '2009-05-13 20:14:00'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I think a more \"bubbly\" round counter for 2 is a fitting idea, but that
    SW corner isn't working, IMO. Did you try an outer contour that's angled instead
    of curved? Kind of like Z's bottom but more acutely angled - or better, take your
    M and rotate it 90 degrees CCW and use the (new) bottom as a guide.\r\n\r\nPlans
    for 'g' sound intriguing..."
  created: '2009-05-13 20:44:21'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Thanks Craig, think perhaps I got somehow attached to the interesting bend
    there at the bottom. Something like this?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mintnew2b_5379.gif]"
  created: '2009-05-13 20:56:19'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I really want the binocular g to work. Here's my latest experiment.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/uglymintgs_5141.gif]\r\nOn
    the left is the original that we thought wasn't quite working. \r\n\r\nSo I widened
    the bowl and made the tail thicker. Then Nina said it looked kind of angry. I
    thought the tail looked a bit boxy.\r\n\r\nSo I tried again and the one on the
    right shows what happens if the tail goes thick-thin-thick. Look at the shape
    of the bottom counter to see the difference most acutely.\r\n\r\nShould I try
    something else?"
  created: '2009-05-13 21:15:10'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Aw Ben, I'm sorry to say this, but I'm not a fan of that new \"g\". I think
    it looks \r\na bit\u2026 clumsy? with all that horizontal action. And the end
    of the tail seems confused. :-(\r\nLooking at this, I think I still like the original
    one best (and very much!). \r\nThe tail of the middle one seems maybe too rigidly
    horizontal, and the third one even more so, and I'm not sure that helps the glyph.
    \r\nBut hey, maybe that's just me. You know the bicameral \"g\" really is my darling
    favorite glyph in this fine font of yours, so I admit I'm biased!"
  created: '2009-05-13 21:30:55'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Ok one last try [img:sites/default/files/old-images/ungly_4471.gif]\r\nThe
    last one is more like the original in the shape of the tail, but with a gentler
    flaring towards the terminal, and with a wider bowl.\r\nThis could go on forever..."
  created: '2009-05-13 21:33:13'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: And number 5 has the tail of number 4 and the head of the original, but slightly
    slightly wider.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ugggh_4057.gif]
  created: '2009-05-13 21:45:29'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Hey, that last one may be it!!!\r\n\r\nre: the '2', yes, I think that revision
    looks quite good. The thinner diagonal and thicker base is happier than the reverse,
    which had looked a bit like the base was being smashed down.\r\n\r\nedit: oops,
    we crossed posts. by \"last one\" I meant #4, which I still would vote for as
    the best."
  created: '2009-05-13 21:53:19'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Nina, you said <cite>I'm not sure the bottom terminals of the \u201Cc\u201D
    and \u201Ce\u201D don\u2019t jump out a bit much.</cite>\r\n\r\nDo you mean they're
    too heavy or the wrong shape or what? How do you think I should fix it? "
  created: '2009-05-16 12:46:01'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Ben, I'm not sure. It was a vague impression, or more like a question, that
    popped into my mind as I was reading the sample text. If you look at the 8pt text,
    second paragraph, the word \"section\" caught my eye in a weird way &ndash; it
    seems the bottom terminals of the \"e\", \"c\", and maybe \"t\" as well (but mainly
    the former two), especially here that they appear all next to one another, might
    be a hint too prominent, maybe in terms of how far they're curving/sticking up
    into the counter? They just somehow seem to attract the eye more than I'd expect
    them to, like they're trying to tell me there's something important going on there
    when in fact, I was expecting them to just be there. If that makes any sense.\r\nIn
    any case, it may well be (a) just me, (b) just my printer, (c) me being a bit
    type-blind.\r\n\r\nRe your \"g\"s, I think #4 is definitely better than #3, but
    in #5 and #1 the countershape of the bowl looks quite a bit better to me\u2026
    So if you don't want the original one, I'd vote for #5, but I'm actually not sure
    I don't still prefer the original one. :-\\  \r\nAgain, lotsa salt (especially
    without context)!"
  created: '2009-05-16 22:49:52'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "So I've made some changes...actually I've kind of lost track of what I've
    been working on. Mostly minor tweaks and drawing alternates/latin extended/ligs
    and spacing.\r\n\r\nThe full stop and comma are larger, I think they need to be
    even bigger though.\r\n\r\nA non-type friend made an interesting comment that
    the spacing was quite loose at large sizes. I was very surprised that someone
    with no background in fonts would firstly see the space and secondly notice how
    the relationship changes with optical size...is he right?\r\n\r\nI'm still not
    over the moon with numeral 2.\r\n\r\nAnd please give feedback about the diacritics.
    The acute and grave look too far left and right respectively I think.\r\n\r\nPlease
    have a look through and see what you think. Be picky!\r\n\r\nMany thank yous :)"
  created: '2009-06-05 00:39:52'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "This is working very well. Have I mentioned it looks fantastic in all-caps
    settings?\r\n\r\nletters\r\n- these are in great shape\r\n- does X need a little
    less offset at the intersection?\r\n\r\nnumerals\r\n- I'd take a look at five;
    it looks a bit like it has its chest puffed out\r\n- do you or will you have eighths
    as standard fractions (I'd think they'd be at least as useful as fifths)\r\n\r\nsymbols\r\n-
    I agree that period and comma could be still bigger\r\n- I really love the giant
    quotation marks\r\n- I also love the bullet options\r\n- do you have a masculine
    ordinal in the font?\r\n- guillemets look nice. are those two different kinds
    of singles?\r\n- what's the deal with the triple quotation marks?!\r\n\r\nligs
    and alternates\r\n- alt a and g look good. I like Th too\r\n- f connections to
    ascenders (b, h, etc.) look very good\r\n- crossbar ligatures might work well
    - it'd be helpful to see them in a text setting\r\n- here's where you start to
    lose me, I hate to say: I'm not a fan of the \"historical\" tied ligatures for
    this font. They seem way too Old World. \r\n- likewise, the descending 'f's seem
    poorly fit for this font. \r\n- and likewise, the funky alt diagonal caps seem
    logo-ish and strike me as taking this font in an entirely different and less promising
    direction.\r\n\r\nextended Latin\r\n- most standard accents look very good to
    my eyes\r\n- curved overhead diacritics (e.g. breve) seem too flat and too wide
    to me \r\n- cedilla doesn't match the character of the font nor what I think of
    as a standard shape\r\n- lslash looks a bit dark and/or tight\r\n- oslash needs
    lightening I think\r\n- is that a florin sign between the schwa and the accented
    'g's, and if so, should it be up with the currency marks?\r\n\r\nspacing\r\n-
    I think your wordspace may be too wide\r\n- straight-straight spacing looks rather
    tight in spots (e.g. dju in \"Adjust,\" li in \"lightly\")\r\n- r-comma needs
    kerning but I suppose most of that is still ahead of you\r\n\r\nKeep up the good
    work."
  created: '2009-06-06 02:23:28'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Woo! Great detail Craig, thanks! \r\n\r\n>it looks fantastic in all-caps
    settings\r\nI'm glad you think so. Something isn't quite working for me but I
    can't tell what. I have a vague feeling most of the uppercase is on the narrow
    side compared to the lc?\r\n\r\nDoes it bother anyone that the upper terminals
    on the 2 and three don't match?\r\n\r\nYes, I'll do sixths, sevenths and eighths...didn't
    get round to them yet.\r\n\r\nI wasn't sure what I was doing with the guillemets,
    they are two kinds and I don't know which is best. I prefer the tapering idea
    but it's still not there.\r\n\r\nThe triple mark is U+2034 Triple Prime. I guess
    it's more for maths and isn't really very useful. \r\n\r\nI got the idea of the
    descending fs (and the layout of page 2) from looking at a font called [[http://typecuts.de/fonts_characters.php?kid=8|Viceroy]].
    The diagonal alternates and dligs were an experiment before I came across it,
    however, and may not have been my best idea. I'll tidy them up and see how they
    look. They could be useful for logos?\r\n\r\nI don't read Romanian or other languages
    that use breves. I'll look at other fonts to see proportions. What sort of cedilla
    would you expect? I'll fiddle with all those other bits, good stuff.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-06 18:03:14'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "On the cedilla, I'd like to see it come up more at the end - more similar
    to the bottoms of 3/5/g.\r\n\r\nDifferences at the top of 2 and 3 don't bug me
    a bit."
  created: '2009-06-06 18:38:16'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Working on the spacing for all the straights.\r\n\r\nDo you think the curly
    brackets need squaring off on the terminals...and the tilde?"
  created: '2009-06-06 21:42:33'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "This is exciting stuff, Ben. I like it a lot!\r\nI kind of lost track of
    where we were too\u2026 but here are some thoughts. \r\n\r\nLetters:\r\n\r\nMy
    favorite glyphs are \"g\", \"q\", \"Y\" and \"@\". Great stuff.\r\n\r\nI think
    the counter of \"y\" still looks slightly large.\r\n\r\nI don't know if we've
    talked about this before, but looking at the huge \"Mint\" the \"t\" suddenly
    strikes me as a bit alien, because the intersection of the stem and crossbar is
    all angular, whereas the \"M\", \"i\", and \"n\" are all rather roundy. I dunno
    \u2013 have you tried rounding one or two of those corners? Maybe the top-left?
    Or am I being obsessive?\r\n\r\nThere's something bugging me about the \"G\".
    At first I thought it's the length of the crossbar, but now I think it's the fact
    that its contrast pattern diverges from \"C\", \"O\", and such &ndash; the axis
    seems quite a bit more diagonal, which mostly means the bottom-left gets too bold
    (and the top-left a bit too light); is this intentional?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mint-G-C_3624.gif]\r\nI
    agree with Craig about the straight-straight spacing but other than that, the
    spacing looks pretty good to me.\r\n\r\n*\r\n\r\nNumerals:\r\n\r\nI wonder if
    numeral 3 is leaning left very slightly? Might just be me (or context) though.\r\nBut
    the different terminals of 2/3 don't bug me either.\r\n\r\n*\r\n\r\nLigatures
    / Latin Extended:\r\n\r\nf_l is just yummy.\r\n\r\nThe dligs are interesting.
    The first c_t I came across had me a bit confused because it's so unexpectedly
    oldstyle. I really dig the \"weird\" ones involving tittles (they make interesting
    negative space too, especially the i_t).\r\n\r\nI wonder if the \"e\" part of
    the \"ae\" glyph could be a bit narrower? The whole thing looks a bit out of balance.\r\n\r\nYour
    ring (as in aring) looks light.\r\n\r\nThe eth looks great, but makes a bit of
    a dark splotch; I think they always do that to a degree, but you might be able
    to alleviate it a bit by pulling the top(-right) of the bowl down a bit to make
    more space for the crossbar. Making a bold of it might be hairy :-\\\r\n\r\n*\r\n\r\nPunctuation
    / symbols:\r\n\r\nI like the huge quotation marks too. There's something Cooper-ish
    about them (that's a good thing)\r\n\r\nI think I may be to blame for the guillemet
    stuff, I vaguely remember asking if they couldn't be tapered. I like the second
    variant of the single ones better I think.\r\n\r\nThe \"registered\" mark may
    be suffering from an optical illusion where the top-left of the circle seems to
    cave in, as if it's attracted by the top-left corner of the \"R\". Maybe push
    it out a tiny bit? (Wow, really getting into details now :) )\r\n\r\nMight the
    fractions be a bit light? In the recipe the \"1/4\" looks a bit thin.\r\n\r\n*\r\n\r\nKeep
    up the great work, Ben! It's exciting to be following this."
  created: '2009-06-07 12:57:01'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Thanks Nina! You know there was something bugging me about C and G, and I
    think you've put your finger on it. \r\n\r\nI might try a tiny curve on the t.
    The original idea was that since it's two strokes they shouldn't bend into each
    other, like on the f and eth. But then I've curved the corners on Euro and A and
    others so I'm breaking my own rules already. I'll see how the t goes. And that
    will probably mean I'll look at the f too.\r\n\r\nOtherwise I'll have to go through
    all of your and Craig's comments carefully later on. Off out for a late breakfast
    now. \r\n\r\n:)"
  created: '2009-06-07 13:05:36'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: I have nothing to critique. Just wanted to say that this is looking great!
  created: '2009-06-07 17:31:39'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Oh! Thank you! :)\r\nHere's a preview of Mint bold. Or semibold, not sure
    yet.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/MintBold_4944.gif]"
  created: '2009-06-07 22:52:05'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "New pdf attached, the first iteration of Semibold. Before I head off in a
    bad direction, I thought I should post for crit. I've kept the outer curves the
    same where possible and added the weight on the inside mostly, and I hope that
    doesn't make it look too condensed. I've just done numerals and alphabetic glyphs
    to start with, so let me know if you think I'm heading off in a good direction
    or not. Oh, and I know the spacing is terrible. I just copied the sidebearings
    of Medium directly, which didn't quite work as neatly as I expected! The worst
    looking glyph I think is g, which needs to have a wider tail I think.\r\n\r\nIn
    the Medium, which I've included for comparison, there are now numerator and denominator
    numerals. I fear I haven't got the weight right...please let me know what you'd
    do with them on page 3. How are the fractions?\r\n\r\nI've also added some more
    dings, squares and really luxuriant double quotes. The line of circular glyphs
    at the bottom of page three goes zero.denominator, lc o, uc O, zero, zero.numerator,
    ordmasculine, degree, ring. I'm not sure about the relative sizes...anyone?? And
    I can't get happy with the section mark, if anyone can suggest what's wrong with
    it that would be marvellous! \r\n\r\nI've realised I need to open up the space
    between the bars on Euro etc. And I'm still experimenting with the eth.\r\n\r\nNina,
    check out the crossbar on t (medium).\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-14 21:37:59'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Hey nice! This looks yummy. \r\n(\"Medium\" and \"Semibold\"? What's next,
    a Demi? ;-) )\r\n\r\nI haven't made bolder weights yet as you know, so I'm afraid
    I can't really comment too much\u2026 But I like how you've mostly kept the \"strangeness\"
    very subtle in the bolder cut; it's not too quirky but still quite characteristic.
    I think the contrast and weight feel quite nice. It does look a bit narrower but
    I personally don't think that's disastrous. (Although it's kind of hard to tell.
    Could you maybe post a sample with text in the Medium that has stuff highlighted
    in the Semi? Or are they not meant to be combined directly for emphasis?)\r\n\r\nYeah,
    \"g\"'s tail looks a bit cramped. I was more distracted though by the \"e\" \u2013
    it has a bit of a Dracula-esque underbite to my eye :-)&nbsp;&nbsp;Dunno, you
    might want to not scale up the terminal so much, especially if there's going to
    be a Bold, too.\r\n\r\n*\r\n\r\n\"t\": what a minuscule curve! I actually didn't
    see it in the printout (blush). Do you feel it does something (good/bad)?\r\n\r\nSection
    mark: I think maybe the middle counter is too disconnected from the rest of the
    glyph shape &ndash; it looks like it's sitting on top of the black (or white in
    this case ;-) ). Too much rounding, maybe? \r\n\r\nI have no idea re the relative
    sizes of those ball shaped things (or the size/weight of the small numerals!).
    I hope someone will offer some thoughts on that.\r\nBut those new super-fat double-quotes
    are kickin'!"
  created: '2009-06-14 22:48:15'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "New pdf at top...Here you can see I've started on the Ultrablack and Ultralight
    which came out really interesting, I hope you'll agree! I love the effect of all
    weights together \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Mintpreview_3849.gif]\r\nSorry
    about the hellish colours, I don't know what I was thinking!\r\n\r\nAnyway, normal
    service will resume shortly...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-19 00:37:26'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Exciting stuff!\r\nI'll wait for a fuller specimen to do a character-by-character
    crit.\r\nI'm curious - what's your method/tools for generating the weights? Are
    you interpolating somehow?\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-19 03:45:55'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "This is seriously yummy stuff Ben! How exciting.\r\nYeah, it seems like you
    slightly OD'd on the summery-icecreamy colors :)\r\n\r\nThere seems to be an especially
    big weight difference between the Light and your Regular (er, Medium). Are you
    planning to add another weight or two between them?\r\n\r\nAnd, the ultrablack
    \"e\" looks either very sad, or very angry. I think it just snarled at me. Heh."
  created: '2009-06-19 09:48:32'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Hi Craig, glad you're as excited as me! From the Medium, I created the Semibold
    manually by globally thickening the forms by a set amount. I added the weight
    on the inside space in most cases and then tweaked the proportions and curves.
    That's why I wasn't sure whether it had turned out too condensed. (In fact I think
    some letters like a still need widening.) \r\n\r\nFrom there, I extrapolated by
    defining an MM weight axis and cranking the slider up to max. (In fact I had to
    do this a few times to get the really heavy weight.) And then the opposite for
    the Ultralight. Of course the results were really dodgy in some cases and FL broke
    a few of the glyphs beyond recognition...oddly the simple glyphs like doublequote
    and lc m went completely haywire. So I needed to fix quite a lot: the round terminals
    and especially the spurs needed some work, most of the curves needed smoothing,
    the arched counters (hmnu) had all got misshapen, some counters had imploded and
    again some of the glyphs had to be widened. \r\n\r\nThe ultralight is presenting
    the most difficulty. The thick and thin stroke widths have to harmonise of course,
    but the most tricky thing is that the premise of this font is the 'independent'
    counters...but in a light weight, the stroke edges are much closer together and
    have to relate and not seem independent. \r\n\r\nThere may be the possibility
    of a hairline weight with monoline strokes but that obviously wouldn't be able
    to have independence. I wonder if from there one could put on slab serifs and
    start a companion face. Ooh, so many wonderful possibilities!\r\n\r\nWould you
    say this is a humanistic sans or something else?"
  created: '2009-06-19 10:17:23'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Hi Nina, we cross posted. You're right I'll probably fit in another weight
    or even two between the Medium and the Ultralight...perhaps a regular and a light.
    I was thinking of finishing with the Ultralight first so I have something neat
    to interpolate from.\r\n\r\nYes, e is very definitely a wild animal! I can't really
    see a way to avoid that but keep it in context. Any ideas? Or maybe it's not a
    bad thing to have a few wild animals anyway?? I worry my numerals will look a
    bit rabid :]"
  created: '2009-06-19 10:33:28'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: very lovely ... i would buy it
  created: '2009-06-19 18:14:47'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Hey, thanks. Glad you like it :)
  created: '2009-06-20 00:08:47'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: I really dig those Ultra Black and Light weights.
  created: '2009-06-20 21:49:36'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: 'Thanks Jelmar, the encouragement from everyone is really helping with these
    beastly weights. '
  created: '2009-06-20 22:29:58'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Well I've added the latest pdf with the Ultralight and Black weights. The
    spacing is still Very ropey in the black, and I need to widen the caps more, like
    KNRWX which aren't black enough. I haven't given up on the two-storey g but it's
    certainly a challenge. Previously I thought the ultralight was hardest but I think
    the black is the most in need of special ideas. I'm having trouble getting enough
    weight on the G withough closing up the counter...think more width may help.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    enjoy the summer mangoes ;O"
  created: '2009-06-21 16:55:52'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Ultralight comments:\r\n- Is the crossbar of T a touch light?\r\n- n is looking
    too narrow to me compared to most of the rest of the lowercase\r\n- r looks narrow
    and has a high join. Tough to find a balance of meshing with the similar letters
    (hnm) but also satisfying the particular and peculiar needs of an r, isn't it?
    \r\n- where k's chevron and stem meet could be higher?\r\n- I know you want that
    big ol' counter in y, but I fear it's sticking out too much in text; optically
    the join looks well below the baseline, which is jarring. I'd raise it a bit.\r\n-
    does the top of a turn too sharply into the stem? \r\n- lots of great letters
    here; I really like d, s, w\r\n\r\nUltrablack comments:\r\n- the verticals look
    wide relative to the other strokes (i, for example, looks very fat in comparison
    to surrounding glyphs)\r\n- is there a happier relationship to be found between
    f's hook and the tittle in the fi ligature?\r\n- y needs work. the narrowest part
    (the tail before the curve) looks too narrow. Would you consider an Emi-style,
    u-like y for this weight? (your one-story ultrablack g looks great and could offer
    a model for such a y)\r\n- agree that (the right side of) K isn't black enough\r\n-
    you may want to widen RPB (and maybe D) to allow wider counters\r\n- I especially
    like the c (great counter shape!), g, z, and L\r\n\r\nI think creating this extreme
    weights was a brilliant idea. It's amazing what different personalities the different
    weights take on, while retaining a family resemblance. When this thread started
    this seemed like an interesting little \"side project\" as Nina called it, but
    now I think you nearly have a tremendously appealing and useful family. Great
    work."
  created: '2009-06-21 18:19:41'
- author:
    name: Martijn van Berkel
    picture: 116039
  body: "This face is just *beep* nice! :D\r\n\r\nSome comments:\r\n- 3 seems to lean
    a bit to the left.\r\n- Ultralight \"p\", \"q\" and \"y\" seems to wide.\r\n-
    I think some Ultralight glyphs needs a further inktrap (or how do you call it).
    See the M or N.\r\n- Aren't the hungars wrong side out? I though they were //
    instead of \\\\.\r\n\r\nBTW: Do you like fruit? :P\r\n\r\nKind regards,\r\nMartijn
    van Berkel"
  created: '2009-06-22 14:54:50'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Ben, did you happen to catch any of the Wimbledon coverage? The [[http://www.melrosejewelers.com/rolex-watch-blog/wp-content/uploads/2009/05/new-wimbledon-scoreboard-300x198.jpg|Center
    Court scoreboard]] font looked Minty to me!
  created: '2009-07-05 18:31:56'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: (Sorry, Cent<em>re</em> Court ;-) and [[http://www.flickr.com/photos/derekholtham/3687073026/|here's
    a pic with lowercase]].)
  created: '2009-07-05 19:02:31'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I used to love watching Wimbledon, it's so engrossing once you start you
    have to follow the whole thing. These days I don't have a tv so didn't see any
    of it.\r\n\r\nDoesn't that look like Optima? But maybe I could licence Mint to
    them for next year!\r\n\r\nTaking a rest from beziers...using all my creativity
    at work on the annual brochure...will return with fresh eyes in a month or two.
    I'm glad you like the extreme weights, they're actually proving rather difficult
    to resolve. Like the widths of the counters on the ultrablack and getting the
    strokes even on the ultralight...and I haven't quite decided how to treat the
    flaring strokes like on the y for the ultrablack. Still it's going to be exciting
    to go back to it later. I really want the 2-storey g to work somehow but that's
    *really* going to hurt! ;)"
  created: '2009-07-06 21:10:06'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Well so I posted the latest iteration of the Ultrablack.\r\n\r\nSome of the
    letters are not resolved satisfactorily yet, I think. I'm especially unsteady
    with the caps: ADGMNRWX. I think it's the counters that are not right. Any suggestions
    would be very welcome ;)\r\n\r\nI wanted to make a two-storey g but as you can
    see there isn't space to make it dark enough...still keen to try so does anyone
    know of a similarly-fat g I could learn from? \r\n\r\nOtherwise, I'm pretty happy
    with the lowercase...except perhaps w and x. \r\n\r\nMy numerals are weird beasts...5
    and 6 need a bit of a rethink. 3 is a curious shape.\r\n\r\nNot done much with
    the spacing so that's why it looks a little jiggly.\r\n\r\nTime for another break!
    ;)\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-21 00:16:19'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I think the letters you expressed concern about are actually working pretty
    well (except the 2-story 'g', which frankly I would abandon for this weight).\r\n\r\nMost
    unsuccessful glyphs to my eye are 'v' and 'y'. 'y' as I mentioned before is too
    thin at the join, and moreover the rate at which the diagonal right side falls
    away will make avoidable holes (see \"yu\" in \"yummy\"). 'v' is similar, though
    less bothersome. I wonder if you'd consider a different 'v' shape, one that started
    with a vertical - imagine if a white triangle was removed at the stem corner from
    your 'u'.\r\n\r\nIt would be nice if you could get the 's' wider, though I can
    see the difficulty of that.\r\n\r\n'l' looks like a shape I was drawing with MacPaint
    in 1985 - and I love it!\r\n\r\n'3' is somehow squinty. Perhaps '9' and definitely
    '5' are too bottom-heavy.\r\n\r\n'@' is too clogged and black. Perhaps a two-stroke-width
    solution like you have in copyright would work there?\r\n\r\n'k' could use a hair
    more weight on the right half?\r\n\r\n'b', 'r', 'm' are great! 'm' captures that
    \"independent countershape\" concept well.\r\n\r\nAny way you could do your preview
    pdfs with black letters? My b/w laser printer doesn't work with these colored
    letters very well.\r\n\r\nKeep up the excellent work!"
  created: '2009-07-21 17:43:56'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Hey, I found an ultra heavy font with a 2-storey g: [[http://www.typonine.com/fonts/tesla-dynamo/|Tesla
    Dynamo]], which I really like! Craig, does the y strike you as too much descending
    on the left?\r\n\r\n>I wonder if you\u2019d consider a different \u2019v\u2019
    shape, one that started with a vertical - imagine if a white triangle was removed
    at the stem corner from your \u2019u\u2019.\r\n\r\nSorry, don't understand :(
    \r\n\r\nI really like y, will see what happens making the join heavier. s...yes
    I don't think it'll go heavier, without losing its tension, but would be nice
    to try. "
  created: '2009-07-27 20:40:40'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "This is roughly what I meant:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/newvformint_6563.gif]"
  created: '2009-07-27 21:14:33'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Hey, the Ultrablack looks yummy. (Though I'd second Craig's request for black/white
    PDFs; I have a color printer but it can do higher res when it's b/w only, which
    makes a difference for type.) Some quick impressions:\r\n\r\nThe weight of your
    curves vs. straight stems might warrant some fiddling around. For instance the
    \"p\" seems too bold esp. on the right side. \r\nActually, it also looks too wide
    (especially seen next to the \"b\" or the \"o\" &ndash; compare width of counters).
    And it's *very* perky compared to your other bowl-and-stick letters\u2026 jumps
    out a bit. But maybe that's just me.\r\nYou might also look at the \"d\" (especially
    its bottom-left) in this context. \r\n\r\nThe \"e\" looks a bit sad/droopy. I
    wonder if it could get a bit more of the \"bite\" and zest of the \"c\"?\r\n\r\nGood
    luck with the \"g\". I for one would love to see you explore the two-storey idea
    further (hm, could it be an idea to make the bowl flatter to make more room for
    the tail &ndash; possibly rotating the counterspace in the bowl to be wide rather
    than tall?). \r\nThe one-storeyed \"g\" seems a bit heavy in the descender; also,
    did you try making its top-right a bit tighter/more_pronounced, = less \"soft\"/curvy?\r\n\r\nMicro
    stuff: in the counter of the \"u\" (also see \"n\", \"m\", etc.), the transition
    between the straight and the curvy parts seems like it could be smoother.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not sure the cap Eszett works &ndash; its bottom-right looks too lowercasey (too
    close to lc eszett, and to \"s\"), and its top-right possibly too pointy. But
    I don't claim to be an expert on that character.\r\n\r\nYour ampersand seems to
    be slightly leaning right?\r\n\r\n- Don't just mind the salt as usual, but also
    some rust; I've been gone for a bit.\r\nIn any case, keep up the great work. It's
    exciting to see this evolve."
  created: '2009-07-29 11:14:52'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Hey Nina, you're back! Will look forward to seeing your photos on Flickr!
    \r\nThanks both for your feedback, am rather busy painting t-shirts but will resume
    on Mint in the next week or so. The bowl and stick letters have been giving me
    problems and I'll look into getting more bite into the e...I closed its mouth
    a bit for a counter matching the other counters but it does need to speak a bit
    louder I think. \r\n\r\n>make the bowl flatter to make more room for the tail
    \u2013 possibly rotating the counterspace in the bowl to be wide rather than tall\r\n\r\nA
    very interesting idea..."
  created: '2009-07-29 15:44:45'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I've posted an update of work so far on Mint, in black and white, as I'm
    shortly off on holiday and won't be doing much for a few weeks. \r\nI've designed
    a few glyphs of the thinnest weight and just interpolated the intermediates between
    the Light (previously ultralight) and Medium. The five alphabets are the Light,
    Medium, Semibold, Extrabold and Ultra, and the Extrabold is the most unpolished
    (I think it was an extrapolation from the Medium). \r\nDo you think the weights
    are staggered evenly between the extremes? And is the family coherent between
    its weights? My particular concern now is that the Ultrablack (which was not extrapolated
    but drawn by hand) is in a different key, much like the weights of Gill Sans?
    G M N and W look particularly unrelated and too wide but I'm not sure how to get
    enough weight onto them without making them wide or the counters too small. I
    wonder if I should make the counters a different shape, more like a vertical slice
    than a wedge.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-25 01:09:24'
- author:
    name: Martijn van Berkel
    picture: 116039
  body: "Hi, nice to see progress. :)\r\n\r\nHowever I'm not an expert, here are some
    comments:\r\n\r\n- I think the join from the thin \"a\" (top-left) is a little
    too fat.\r\n- The difference between ExtraBold & UltraBold is bigger than the
    difference between other weights.\r\n- The UltraBold $ looks a bit leaning to
    the left, compaired to the normal \"S\".\r\n\r\nKUTGW! =)\r\n\r\nKind regards,\r\nMartijn
    van Berkel"
  created: '2009-08-26 11:08:52'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "How did you decide on which weights to make? Did you space them equally numerically,
    or by some other system?\r\n\r\nYeah, the Ultra sticks out. I mean it seems visible
    that it's drawn a bit differently in detail. I wonder if adding another weight
    between the Extrabold and the Ultra would help tie it in; there really is way
    more of a weight \"gap\" there.\r\n\r\nOr it might be a different strategy to
    not try to make the Ultra an integral part of this tight little family at all,
    but release it separately as \"Mint Display\", Titling, Ultra, Super, Crazy or
    some such, maybe with a Super-Ultra-Thin counterpart? Just a thought. Go enjoy
    your vacation :)\r\n\r\nPS: For shame. Did I forget to mention this is looking
    yummy?! I'm very much looking forward to seeing this completed."
  created: '2009-08-26 11:49:53'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Hey hey,\r\n\r\nOk, think I was approaching it backwards. Originally I thought
    the Ultra black would be a bit of a crazy super tiddly display weight, and I'd
    made the other weights manually by thickening the Medium and extrapolating...the
    results were a bit variable as we saw today. Now I tried interpolating from the
    Medium to the Ultra and come up with very acceptable results. There are three
    intermediate weights in between. Have a look at the new pdf! ;)\r\n\r\nSo the
    drawn weights were the ultralight, medium and ultrablack, the others are interpolated.
    The thin was extrapolated and needs more work but I've had a quick tweak so it's
    not too lumpy bumpy. \r\n\r\nNina, if we put these weights into maths terms, if
    we have ultralight at 0, medium at 1 and ultrablack at 2 then the weights go 0,
    .33, .66, 1, 1.25, 1.5, 1.75 and 2. The thin was at minus something.\r\n\r\nNow
    I really need to pack my backpack ;)"
  created: '2009-08-27 00:17:06'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Perhaps I should merge the light and book into something in between?\r\n\r\nDid
    you notice the ultrablack g? How does it work? I squished its head."
  created: '2009-08-27 00:26:40'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: This is impressive! The whole family looks much more harmonious now. I share
    your doubts about the ultralight--medium range, three weights would probably be
    better than four. The heavy end gradation is however perfect now, I think. New
    black "g" is jolly good. Have a nice holiday!
  created: '2009-08-27 13:37:49'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Blended those two weights into a new 'Light' but still think they're pretty
    close together. Perhaps just need one intermediate between Medium and Ultralight?\r\n\r\nBag
    is packed; back in 3 weeks ;)"
  created: '2009-08-27 22:26:19'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Right.\r\n\r\nI'm midway through the kerning after sorting out my problems
    with kerning classes and now also have a nice routine for arbitrary fractions.
    All this coding is rather unexpectedly complicated. The superior and inferior
    numerals are quite heavier. I'm not sure still whether I'm happy with the shapes
    of 2 and 3. They'll always be my weakest glyphs I fear.\r\n\r\nSpacing is improved
    and some glyphs have been slightly tweaked. (Following Craig's suggestion ages
    ago I've pulled up the join on y at last.) Ampersand is switched with the previous
    one as an s.alt. I've added LOTS of precomposed diacritics (yes I know some of
    them need the contours merging) and Mint now supports over 40 languages! \r\n\r\nSix
    months after starting this project, it's beginning to look like Mint Medium might
    be done by the end of the year! I'm quite excited by that idea!\r\n\r\nPlease
    have a look at my new pdf (Mint Booklet) and tell me how well you think it's coming
    along, or how badly. I'm interested to hear whether you think the overall colour
    is even or if there are glyphs that might need looking at. \r\n\r\nPlease forgive
    the Th ligature spacing. I thought I'd turned off the auto ligs for that sequence.\r\n\r\nPS
    Thanks Sindre for your latest specimen of [[http://www.typophile.com/node/59004|Neutrogen/Ethos]]
    which inspired the design of my latest specimen. :)"
  created: '2009-10-01 01:50:52'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "This isn't a full critique but here are some observations to consider, in
    no particular order:\r\n\r\n- The weights look nice together. \r\n\r\n- There
    may be too much contrast between thick and thin in the Light weight. It looks
    spotty and uneven on my printout. (The unremarkable resolution of my printer probably
    doesn't help.) In some ways \"Light\" and \"Stressed\" work against each other;
    maybe the contrast should really back down to nothing as the stroke weight hits
    the light extreme.\r\n\r\n- On the counters of the bowl-and-stick letters, did
    you ever consider doing something different with the stem-side edge of the counter?
    E.g., in a d, the right side of the counter rounds into a vertical that aligns
    with the left side of the stem above. Since \"independent countershapes\" is part
    of the concept here, might there be room to do something different with that counter
    edge?\r\n\r\n- t's crossbar has always seemed too low to me (I'm looking at \"transitions
    of vortices\")\r\n\r\n- is the terminal of y's tail a little too exuberant, esp.
    the curl up on its top side? That might flare out too quickly; compare the bluntness
    of Q's tail. y also has a little rightward lean but I don't know that that is
    a problem. \r\n\r\n- In bigger settings, the u looks too narrow to me, particular
    near round letters (\"Quezon,\" \"\xC9poque\"). n also looks a touch narrow. But
    at text sizes both look fine. Not sure what to do with that...\r\n\r\n- In the
    numerator/denominator size, 5 looks too chunky maybe. 7 may be a bit too serpentine
    in that size, too.\r\n\r\n- Top of fl ligature looks limp.\r\n\r\n- Are you going
    to have fl/fi ligs for the light weight?\r\n\r\n- In the language specimens, is
    there a rogue capital Thorn in the second-to-last line of the Icelandic paragraph?
    And looks like there's an extra space before a comma near the middle of the Croatian
    paragraph."
  created: '2009-10-02 03:51:10'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Ben, have you seen [[http://www.fountaintype.com/typefaces/meadow|Meadow]]?
    - I just came across it and was reminded of Mint.
  created: '2010-01-20 23:03:07'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Yes! I found it about a week after your previous post and kept the pdf for
    reference. It's very interesting. I especially like the waviness in the italics.
    Another one I found was <a href=\"http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/typonine/tesla-dynamo-pro/\">Tesla
    Dynamo</a>, which I thought might be a helpful pointer for the ultrablack weight.\r\n\r\nNot
    sure what I'm doing with Mint actually. Part of me wanted to optimise it better
    for 10pt sizes: heavier hairlines and bigger spacing, but part of me was attracted
    to the unusually high contrast in a sans design. Does this mean I have to do two
    cuts and never finish either of them? ;)"
  created: '2010-01-20 23:09:46'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Just dropping by to tell you that your Mint is even better than I remembered
    it. And I remembered it as darn good. I advise to keep it as it is, in my opinion,
    this is more of a mid-range font than a small size font anyway. Finish it, release
    it, and make a small size version as a 2.0 project, perhaps only for the core
    weights. This needs to be released. Your last specimen booklet is even greater
    than the one that inspired it. (Boy, I look forward to designing real specimen
    books for my typefaces <em>when</em> they're all finished.)\r\nDid you sort out
    the weight distribution?"
  created: '2010-01-21 02:18:26'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I've created a new pdf to show progress. The regular weight is pretty much
    done, except for some kerning I think. No more drawing at least!\r\n\r\nThe other
    three weights are still only alphabetics, so I'm hoping for some critique before
    filling out all the punctuation and assorted jumble of other glyphs. "
  created: '2011-05-05 15:12:51'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "That mu descender seems very slanted to me (though I don't have a lot of
    mu experience....)\r\nAre there any standard ligatures in the fonts?"
  created: '2011-05-05 15:40:01'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Yeah I'm not too familiar with the mu either, I'll need to find out from
    somewhere what the preference is!\r\n\r\nStandard ligs \u2014 not connected. I
    figured they'd be too much in a sans face, so there's a slight shortening of the
    f's crossbar and the spacing is a little different. Connections are in the dlig
    feature, along with the really unusual ligs, which I may move into an hlig feature
    (not sure if this is always supported, so maybe another stylistic set?)\r\n\r\nAnd
    I haven't forgotten about your observations above, Craig. I'll have a close look
    at each of them. Thanks."
  created: '2011-05-05 18:19:50'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Looking at the fat weight, I think there's too much taper in the arms of
    /E/ and /F/. All those clashing angles look awkward.\r\nI expected the counters
    in /K/ to be fully round, like in /X/.\r\nWhat happens with /gj/?\r\n\r\nDo your
    descending alternate /f/s descend too far?\r\n\r\nI still don't quite get the
    historical ligatures (and takeoffs therefrom) in a typeface like this, but I guess
    they don't do any harm.\r\n\r\nSometimes I think the contrast in the ultralight
    works and sometimes I think it doesn't."
  created: '2011-05-05 19:22:28'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Interesting observations. I'll see what other solutions exist for the fat
    E and F. Do you think the bold has the same problem? Could it be that those shapes
    are also too wide?\r\n\r\nK: do you think the unexpectedness contributes in a
    cool way or a buggy way? One of the premises was to sometimes let the black 'win'
    and sometimes the white.\r\n\r\ngj collides in a major way, but I don't personally
    mind that.\r\n\r\nDescending fs: these reach the bottom of the other descenders;
    I guess that's another feature that's not really necessary?\r\n\r\nI really wanted
    to keep the stress in the ultralight, it's such an important part of the other
    weights and I think distinguishes it a bit \u2014 I can't think of many light
    stressed sans faces.\r\n\r\nOther questions:\r\n\r\nIs there any logic to my currency
    symbols; some have the bars removed across the centre, and I generally prefer
    that, but not sure if that model would work in all of the other (unfamiliar) ones?\r\n\r\nTilde:
    too big?\r\n\r\nGuillemets: too heavy?\r\n\r\nStacked diacritics (Vietnamese):
    relative sizes ok?\r\n\r\nOrnaments: enough? What others would be nice? (Oh, I
    said the drawing was done already.)\r\n\r\nKreska: big enough?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-05 22:18:13'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<blockquote>Interesting observations. I'll see what other solutions exist
    for the fat E and F. Do you think the bold has the same problem? Could it be that
    those shapes are also too wide?</blockquote>\r\n \r\nWell, I'd say it's less bothersome
    in the bold. The closeness of the differently-angled top and bottom contours of
    the counters in the fat adds to the clash. It kind of reminds me of pick-up sticks
    - did you ever play with those? I don't think the width is part of the issue.
    \r\n\r\nOn the /K/, I guess every other wedge shaped counter is round-ended (except
    for here and /R/), so it looks a little like an inconsistency to me. "
  created: '2011-05-05 23:01:01'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "About mu:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/78525"
  created: '2011-05-06 12:22:34'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: Do you work full time in type design as this looks very good. Apart from anything
    the feel it has of being over exposed or photographically enlarged from a printed
    speciman is really fresh. You will be publishing this I'd say.
  created: '2011-05-07 00:43:44'
date: '2009-03-15 21:54:41'
title: Mint

---
