---
author:
  name: npgraphicdesign
body: "Not necessarily in the historical context...more like objects we use daily
  that are indicative of our culture, lifestyle, etc.\r\n\r\nFast food (McD, wendys,
  burger king, pizza, etc)\r\niPod (not necessarily indicative of just US culture,
  but more generational)\r\nHarley Davidson\r\nSneakers\r\nBaseball hats\r\nJeans\r\nSoda\r\n\r\nWhat
  else? Would love input from someone who is American, as well as any outside perspective
  on American culture from the international Typophile contingent.\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Enough already with the American culture thang.\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-16 17:56:35'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "I know that my friend from Ecuador says that Coca Cola represents American
    values in Ecuador. To him, it's the same as our perception of Walmart.\r\n\r\nMy
    friend from Myanmar says, \"I like Coke. No like Pepsi.\" Of course, if I give
    him a cup of Pepsi and tell him it's Coke, he loves it :) That's what I call branding."
  created: '2009-03-16 18:22:31'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Pickup trucks\r\nused non-commercially as personal transport\r\n\r\nWillful
    anti-intellectualism\r\n\r\nAutomobile-oriented suburbs (and the related ineffective
    public transit)\r\n\r\nTaco Bell"
  created: '2009-03-16 18:34:27'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: Guns
  created: '2009-03-16 18:49:46'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Being European, but having spent a good year in the US*, I spontaneously
    think of [this is a very unordered list]:\r\n\r\nCream Soda, Root Beer, Reese's
    Peanut Butter Cups (yum), oversized servings of ice cream &ndash; actually oversized
    everything (like cars and trucks, or people).\r\n\r\nTotal consumerism. \r\nThe
    constant promise (and expectation) of instant gratification.\r\nLoads of avoidable
    trash, like heaps of plastic bags at the supermarket.\r\n\r\nSimple interfaces,
    like washing machines that have \"hot\", \"warm\", and \"cold\"; \r\nover here
    you might just need that 50-page manual to operate a washing machine. \r\n\r\nA
    (perceived) strange contrast between a general self-image of total individual
    independence and a somewhat lemming-like social behavior (like everywhere else,
    but at least seeming exaggerated).\r\n\r\n* My impressions are from uh, 7\u20138
    years ago, and I bet some things have changed. \r\nI haven't been back since,
    sadly."
  created: '2009-03-16 18:55:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I told ya.\r\nIt's just asking for the beats."
  created: '2009-03-16 18:56:39'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Oh, he was asking about objects of everyday use. My bad. :-)  \r\nWell I
    guess the washing machine and food still counts. And cars and plastic bags."
  created: '2009-03-16 19:10:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Dental floss.\r\nWell, you <em>should</em> use it every day!"
  created: '2009-03-16 19:19:25'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "skiis on the roofs of cars crossing into Canada in July.\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2009-03-16 19:37:44'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Growing up in England (around 5 seconds* from Greenham Common Airbase) it
    was the BGM-109 Tomahawk cruise missile.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si\r\n\r\n*based on typical
    Soviet-nuke-blast-radius. "
  created: '2009-03-17 01:59:58'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "hot dogs\r\nfootball helmet\r\napple pie\r\nvinyl records\r\nsuperhero comic
    books"
  created: '2009-03-17 03:15:36'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "I forgot to add a basketball to my list. Also, believe it or not, a roll
    of toilet paper.\r\n\r\nIt's too bad there are no objects to represent jazz, or
    the blues..."
  created: '2009-03-17 04:25:48'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: 'Banjo? Blues harp? Four each: C E7 A A7 D7 G7 C? A hankie over the cornet
    keys?'
  created: '2009-03-17 04:37:12'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "\u2022 Deplorable beer\r\n\u2022 Sports so boring that one can only watch
    them after drinking deplorable beer.\r\n\u2022 People going to horrible restaurants
    to eat atrocious food and drink deplorable beer while watching terribly boring
    sports."
  created: '2009-03-17 04:44:58'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Oh, James, not in a good mood, I see.\r\nMy Czech forefathers had such good
    tucker and such fantastic beer that they never bothered to sort out their politics.
    So, the Austrians, then the Germans and then the Soviets had to do it for them.
    Baaad idea!"
  created: '2009-03-17 04:54:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>... basketball ...</em>\r\n\r\nInvented in the US by a Canadian; in terms
    of national importance, probably biggest in Lithuania.\r\nBut not really an everyday
    object?\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-17 05:37:55'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "@paragraph: That explains a lot. \r\n\r\n<cite>But not really an everyday
    object?</cite>\r\n\r\nDepends on age. When I was twelve a basketball was an everyday
    object."
  created: '2009-03-17 06:07:32'
- author:
    name: merkri
  body: "<em>Deplorable beer</em>\r\n\r\nI'm not sure where you're getting this from.
    The beer around where I'm at is wonderful.\r\n\r\nIn fact, a bunch of my foreign
    friends are always commenting on the beer.\r\n\r\nEveryday objects? I have no
    idea.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-17 06:27:47'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "things i \"object\" to about america:\r\n\r\n1.  lite beer.\r\n2.  reagan
    elected president.  twice.  landslide both times.\r\n3.  biggest selling newspaper
    = the national enquirer.\r\n4.  bush junior elected president.  twice.  stole
    it both times.\r\n\r\nthat's probably all you need to know.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-17 06:32:10'
- author:
    name: jabez
    picture: 112785
  body: The <a href="http://www.eatmedaily.com/2009/03/the-mcgangbang-a-mcchicken-sandwich-inside-a-double-cheeseburger/">McGangBang</a>
    (via <a href="http://www.kottke.org/09/03/the-mcgangbang">kottke.org</a>) and
    the <a href="http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/28/dining/28bacon.html?em">Bacon Explosion</a>
    :p
  created: '2009-03-17 07:11:30'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Guns.\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-03-17 15:43:30'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: White socks are apparently uniquely American, or at least North American.
    It's something we don't think too much about, but anyone else in the world can
    spot us a mile away by it.
  created: '2009-03-17 16:17:10'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "cerulean said:\r\n>   White socks are apparently uniquely American, \r\n>
    \  or at least North American. It\u2019s something \r\n>   we don\u2019t think
    too much about, but anyone else \r\n>   in the world can spot us a mile away by
    it.\r\n\r\nit's true.\r\n\r\nespecially when plaid shorts show off \r\nthose white
    socks to such good effect!\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-17 16:24:21'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Mens' underpants with a slot in the front?
  created: '2009-03-17 16:25:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Where I live in Northern Virginia, very few people look American born so
    it is hard to say. Nobody here who works at McDonalds or drives a cab speaks English.
    There is as much El Salvadoran and Vietnamese stuff around here as American and
    we don't even have a Walmart--thank god!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-17 17:01:48'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em> Mens\u2019 underpants with a slot in the front?</em>\r\n\r\nWhere do
    foreigners put the slot?!"
  created: '2009-03-17 19:22:41'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "1. White supremacy counter culture (F-U)\r\n2. Gangs of every shade\r\n3.
    Huge appetite for drugs \r\n4. Senseless murder\r\n5. Being able to sue for everything\r\n6.
    Bad freeway system (LA)\r\n7. Crooked politicians\r\n8. Hip-Hop\r\n9. fake plastic
    women and men\r\n10. The rich rule America\r\n11. Hate\r\n12. That about it!  \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design\r\nNo
    man is an island unto himself_John Donne\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/251_cartoon_rich_government_poor_people_small_over_6314.jpg]"
  created: '2009-03-17 20:24:50'
- author:
    name: Nachos
    picture: 116245
  body: "Deodorant. \r\n\r\nI guess it isn't a very revolutionary item though. It
    does not seem to be catching on with many foreign citizens I've encountered. "
  created: '2009-03-17 21:05:58'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: 'america: dildo, television, six-pack of beer, car, tv dinner'
  created: '2009-03-17 21:15:07'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: for some reason, d-i-l-d-o is filtered out here, since apparently we are all
    children (and since apparently children can be easily injured by words).
  created: '2009-03-17 21:15:41'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "Tons and tons of overweight people. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design\r\nNo
    man is an island unto himself_John Donne\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-17 21:26:49'
- author:
    name: Nachos
    picture: 116245
  body: "@ Typedog\r\n\r\nI really want to just rail on your post, but I have a white
    supremacy counter culture meeting to get to. "
  created: '2009-03-17 21:57:19'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: '... or was it that stinky foreigners counter culture meeting?'
  created: '2009-03-17 22:06:52'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Exactly! Stinky slotless-underwear-wearing foreigners.
  created: '2009-03-17 22:11:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Stinky slotless-underwear-wearing foreigners.\"\r\n\r\nLOL!!! Priceless
    :-)\r\n\r\nNow if we could only come up with slotless parking meters :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-17 22:46:27'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "Well, I live in California and we have tons of white trash skinheads gangs,\r\nbrown
    trash Mexican gangs, and Black trash gangs as well. My mother is\r\na foreigner
    who became a citizen. Nachos, I would think twice before you\r\nmake generalization.
    \ \r\n\r\n\xA1Arriba! Norteam\xE9rica, M\xE9xico, y Colombia!\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design\r\nNo
    man is an island unto himself_John Donne\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-17 23:47:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I grew up in the inner city of Pittsburgh in the late 40s and beyond. The
    city was always full of immigrants, including my family. I guess what has always
    struck me as American is the mishmash of everything. There are not thousands of
    years of heritage like Europe so there is this eclectic chaos with no order to
    it. Today, immigrants are from different places than when I was young. Instead
    of Poland and Italy, they come from East Africa, the Middle East, and Southeast
    Asia and Latin America. I wouldn't call it a melting pot but a mixing bowl. This
    can cause both friction and embracing each-other's culture. It is what you make
    of it. If you want to think only evil and accept the media's exaggeration, go
    ahead. The truth is, we are no better or no worse than anywhere else.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-17 23:55:51'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "@dezcom \r\n\r\nNicely put comrade.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design\r\nNo
    man is an island unto himself_John Donne\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-18 00:08:31'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "dezcom said:\r\n>   The truth is, we are no better or no worse than anywhere
    else.\r\n\r\nwe might not be any worse.  (although i'm not sure of that;\r\ni
    can certainly see the argument that we epitomize evil...)\r\n\r\nthe problem is
    that we sincerely believe we are far superior.\r\n\r\nand we are smug and arrogant
    about that superiority, too...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-18 00:13:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"we are smug and arrogant about that superiority, too...\"\r\n\r\nonly some
    of us are but they are perhaps quite vocal about it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-18 00:33:16'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Speaking as an American who has lived in Europe for two years, all I can
    say is that anyone who thinks America has a white supremicist problem needs to
    go to Europe (where there are also slavik supremicist problems in Russia).  In
    any case, I can't think really think of any objects that fit the whole of America.
    \ Well, maybe freedom of speech something that places like Spain are dearly lacking,
    but for me and the South\r\n\r\n1. Green (so many trees)\r\n2. Food (fried chicken,
    shrimp and grits, pecan pie, Georgia peaches, Florida oranges, grapefruit in the
    morning, Alabama peanuts, etc)\r\n3. Friendly people\r\n4. Spacious houses\r\n5.
    Football\r\n6. Tailgating\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que
    apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier
    Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2009-03-18 00:47:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Guifa touches on an important point. The kind of freedom of speech we have
    in America is such that many things are said outloud or in print that are downright
    repulsive to most of us but protected by our constitution. I for one would like
    to see Rush Limbaugh get his mouth permanently taped shut (and he mine perhaps)
    but I know we have to alow everyone an open mike.  This means that people in Europe
    and the rest of the world hear the worst of our reprehensible blithering the loudest
    and might assume this is what all Americans think. And yes, we are a friendly
    people in spite of it all.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-18 01:03:43'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "dezcom said:\r\n>   only some of us are but they are perhaps quite vocal
    about it.\r\n\r\nperhaps.\r\n\r\nbut outside of dictatorships, very few countries
    practice the kind of\r\n\"we're the greatest country in the world\" propaganda
    america does...\r\n\r\n(that \"well, we _are_!\" that some are thinking right
    now, is part of it.)\r\n\r\non the flip side, almost all the people i've known
    from other countries\r\ndo indeed confirm americans overall tend to be very friendly
    people.\r\nin fact, \"friendly\" is far and away the most common observation of
    all\r\n\r\napologies to the original poster, though, who was looking for \"objects\".\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-18 03:22:59'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "<ul> <li>Ice-cold drinks. Everything \u2018on the rocks\u2019. <em>Even vodka</em>;</li>
    <li>Automatic transmission;</li> <li>Disdain for diacritics\u2014to the point
    when using them looks pretentious (e.g., <em>r\xE9sum\xE9</em>).</li> </ul>"
  created: '2009-03-18 03:23:41'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Yes, Jesse isn't the only Seattle resident with such views of us foreigners
    - however I have to say most of them moved here from somewhere else. Fortunately
    foreigners make up a sizable majority, have all the good jobs, nicest houses,
    have stolen the local women, and drink the good beer. This makes dealing with
    folks who don't like us more than bearable. ;-)
  created: '2009-03-18 03:27:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Disdain for diacritics\u2014to the point when using them looks pretentious
    (e.g., r\xE9sum\xE9).\"\r\n\r\nHi Maxim!\r\n\r\nYou forgot about all of those
    heavy metal rock bands that stick umlauts over everything just for show :-)\r\n\r\nRegards
    to you, my friend. I hope all is well with you and your wife,\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-18 03:29:36'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: typophile
  created: '2009-03-18 03:33:57'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Did anyone mention t-shirts, especially in connection with blue jeans and
    tennis shoes?
  created: '2009-03-18 05:27:29'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Oh, and baseball caps too!\r\n(they're a T-shirt for your head)\r\n\r\nedit:
    that did get a mention in the first post but it bears repeating"
  created: '2009-03-18 07:23:05'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "@Sii\r\nWhat percent of Seattle is \"original\"? From my experience, very
    few. The rest is made up of 25% Californians looking to get away from the city,
    25% Minnesotans looking to get away from the country, and 45% foreign matter.
    \r\n\r\nIf only we could get rid of the Californians :)\r\n\r\n\r\nRE:The original
    question\r\nApple, Microsoft, Intel and the rest of the world's computer vocabulary."
  created: '2009-03-18 14:56:23'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "The official number (as of 2005) was that 18.8% of King County residents
    were foreign-born. Seattle itself may be higher. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-18 15:24:09'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "My original number was hyperbole :)\r\n\r\nBut I don't know if the number
    you quote is a high number or a low number, relative to other areas. Given that
    King County covers half of Western Washington, I'd say that Seattle itself probably
    has different numbers.\r\n\r\nStill too many Californians though, and not enough
    Brits for my money :)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-18 16:08:18'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Big ugly blue grotesque caps.\r\n\r\nDumb movies.\r\n\r\nCrippled character
    sets on every automated or computer driven device. My bank actually prints H&ctor
    Mu%oz as my name.\r\n\r\nNachos.\r\n\r\nConvenience Stores.\r\n\r\nCalling a country
    for the name of a continent.\r\n\r\n5 de mayo.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2009-03-18 17:05:40'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Also bow ties and SUV.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2009-03-18 17:06:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Hola, H\xE9ctor! Good to see your mask around here again :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-18 17:11:07'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Hi Crhis, I have been very short on time for a long time but I always try
    to check on typophile at least once a week.\r\n\r\n\r\nAlso.\r\n\r\nIn Mexico,
    a good indicative of north american culture is being productive, on time and on
    budget.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2009-03-18 17:22:21'
- author:
    name: Nachos
    picture: 116245
  body: Not an "object" per se but Miles, Gallons, Pounds and all the other measurements
    Americans use are pretty much exclusive to the US.
  created: '2009-03-18 18:59:41'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: 'Isn''t that funny. They have a name: Imperial Measures. Are the Founding
    Fathers sleeping well?'
  created: '2009-03-18 23:14:18'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: http://graphichug.com/plenty/wp-content/uploads/2009/03/kpl_4.jpg
  created: '2009-03-18 23:24:55'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "use daily that are indicative of your culture, lifestyle, etc:\r\n\r\nGuns\r\nMovies\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio"
  created: '2009-03-18 23:52:29'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Paul, that is so clever!
  created: '2009-03-18 23:57:05'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "<cite>. They have a name: Imperial Measures. Are the Founding Fathers sleeping
    well?</cite>\r\n\r\nimagine, a system of measure based on the sizeof the King's
    foot. \r\n\r\n:o)\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2009-03-19 00:00:27'
- author:
    name: mehallo
    picture: 109684
  body: "orange grease from frozen microwaved burritos\r\n\r\nalso\r\n\r\naerosol
    cheese that comes in a fluorescent orange color\r\n\r\nand\r\n\r\nthem orange
    squares that are supposedly cheese that they put on EVERYTHING but they really
    aren't cheese and they ruin the flavor of everything they touch/melt into.\r\n\r\nbasically,
    i'd have to narrow it down to\r\n\r\norange \r\nnon \r\nreal \r\nfood \r\n\r\nfood
    \r\nitems"
  created: '2009-03-19 07:17:04'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Tertiary and quaternary colors\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-19 10:58:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The single largest thing I would point to as, oh, so, American is:\r\n\r\nThe
    obscene amount of airtime and ink given to the sexual exploits and partner-swapping
    of the celebrities and politicians here.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-19 14:24:57'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "A Fender Stratocaster\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2009-03-19 15:15:16'
- author:
    name: James Deux
  body: "What is uniquely American?\r\n\r\nHating every second of being it."
  created: '2009-03-19 15:25:12'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "Wow. It's been good to see so many outside looking in views of my country.
    But, wow.\r\n\r\nI'll add Levi's jeans and Jack Daniel's sour mash whiskey. The
    Levi's brand has gone to hell, but is distinctly USA. And Jack Daniel's taste
    the same, but lost the hometown feel when it was bought by Brown-Forman. Still
    American icons though."
  created: '2009-03-19 15:36:45'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Nachos said: <em>Not an \u201Cobject\u201D per se but Miles, Gallons, Pounds
    and all the other measurements Americans use are pretty much exclusive to the
    US.</em>\r\n\r\nparagraph said: <em>Isn\u2019t that funny. They have a name: Imperial
    Measures. Are the Founding Fathers sleeping well?</em>\r\n\r\nrussellm said: <em>imagine,
    a system of measure based on the sizeof the King\u2019s foot.</em>\r\n\r\nRussell
    is correct. <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Imperial_units\">Imperial Units</a>
    (or measures) were introduced in the UK and used in its colonies, so yes, the
    Founding Fathers are sleeping well on that count. :-)"
  created: '2009-03-19 15:45:48'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i'm assuming that by culture you're referring to 'pop' culture. just as there
    is not one 'European' culture, there is not one 'American' culture. there are
    multiple cultures that exist and overlap within America and depending on which
    one you want to represent different objects may or may not be representative.
  created: '2009-03-19 17:09:30'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Now that nobody smokes, it's pass\xE9 (but still worth mentioning): Camels,
    Lucky Strike and Zippo?\r\nOh, how I miss me smokes!"
  created: '2009-03-19 22:44:43'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Santa Claus\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2009-03-19 23:36:48'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: ">A Fender Stratocaster\r\n\r\nBlasphemy.\r\n\r\nGibson, Gibson, Gibson\u2026
    :)\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2009-03-20 02:02:49'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: 'Rhymes with: Stetson. Leggins anyone? Reach for the sky, hombre.'
  created: '2009-03-20 04:53:00'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "Ketchup.\r\n\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2009-03-20 06:22:47'
- author:
    name: Plaidjaney
  body: 'Wow. Negative stereotypes are dripping from this thread, but I guess these
    things will happen. Funny, I never think of negative stereotypes when I think
    of foreigners, just pure interest and fascination in their culture. It seems like
    all the negativity and hatred is coming from the other side. '
  created: '2009-03-20 15:38:28'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "plaidjaney said:\r\n>   Wow. Negative stereotypes are dripping from this
    thread\r\n\r\nnegativity?  stereotypes?\r\n\r\ni don't see how jeans, or harleys,
    or ketchup, or electric guitars, \r\nor apple pie, or pickup trucks, or ice-cold
    drinks are  _negative_.\r\n\r\nand the negative stuff that _is_ here?\r\n\r\nit's
    based on _honesty_, and long-time solid _observation_...\r\n\r\n\r\n>   seems
    like all the negativity and hatred is coming from the other side.\r\n\r\nyou couldn't
    have expressed american ethnocentrism better...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-20 15:49:24'
- author:
    name: Plaidjaney
  body: Bowerbird-you picked the few things that were listed that didn't have negative
    connotations! And I'm not living in a dreamworld, I know the stereotypes are there-for
    me it's fat children. I never realized how fat the kids were here until I went
    to Argentina and saw normal-sized kids! I'm not saying that the stereotypes don't
    exist, it just bothers me that they do and that people from different countries
    are always so sure of them (ie. "it's based on honesty, and long-time solid observation.)
    Before you lump me into that general comment you made at the end of your post,
    let me just say that you misread my intention. What I'm trying to say is that
    from MY personal experience I don't hear people in America doing this with other
    countries. I mean, I can't imagine making this list of things found in England
    and if I did, it would probably be something more positive-this is all I'm saying.
    And now I'm going back to observing fonts.
  created: '2009-03-20 16:24:59'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "i think we must be defining \"stereotypes\" differently.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\ni
    don't know where any of the commenters here live,\r\nso you might be right that
    the negative aspects are\r\nbeing listed by the non-americans.  or maybe not,\r\nsince
    i've pointed out some of the negative aspects,\r\nand i'm american.  my significant
    other for a decade,\r\nhowever, was european, so i do have something of\r\na more-objective
    perspective than most americans,\r\nsince i've heard lots of people from lots
    of countries\r\nrelating their observations about us.  and these were\r\n_not_
    observers who had some kind of axe to grind...\r\nindeed, as i said up above,
    almost all of 'em said that\r\namericans are among the world's friendliest people...\r\nthat
    is, they usually described a mix of good and bad,\r\nnot just with america, but
    for other countries as well,\r\nincluding their own...  (often _especially_ their
    own!)\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-20 16:43:53'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "cerulean said:\r\n> White socks are apparently uniquely American...\r\n\r\nSo
    you're saying that Europeans think Americans wearing white socks with shorts is
    as goofy as Americans think Europeans look wearing dark socks with shorts? No
    way!"
  created: '2009-03-20 18:16:29'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "<em>It seems like all the negativity and hatred is coming from the other
    side.</em>\r\n\r\nJanet, being one of the 'foreigners' in this thread, and having
    posted only nice things for a change :o), I think that you'd find that the harsh
    comments here came in fact from Americans.\r\n\r\nOn a related, but lighter note:
    protest songs?"
  created: '2009-03-20 23:36:50'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "America set's the standards for \r\nthe rest of the world. These words\r\ncame
    directly from my British comrade.\r\nNow there's a man who loves the USA.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design\r\nNo
    man is an island unto himself_John Donne\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-21 07:27:43'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "typedog said:\r\n>   America set\u2019s the standards\r\n>   for the rest
    of the world\r\n\r\n...whether the rest of the world asks us to, or not...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\np.s.
    \ and it doesn't seem to matter whether\r\nwe know how to use our apostrophes,
    or not.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-21 18:20:54'
- author:
    name: paulstonier
    picture: 114324
  body: "Like Mehallo said\u2026orange\u2026\r\n\r\nBoxed Mac and Cheese\u2026"
  created: '2009-03-21 22:13:23'
- author:
    name: Plaidjaney
  body: Bowerbird-you're right. I'm laughing because pretty much all of the more negative
    posts are from Americans. I didn't click on the profiles for each one I read,
    sigh. You know, I didn't take this huge offense to the posts-it was your last
    comment on your first post that hit a nerve because it was true and I felt dumb.
    Human, yes I am. I think a lot about stereotypes lately as a native NYer who has
    just moved to a crunchy part of Cally and thinks about culture distinctions pretty
    much on a daily basis. My apologies to the originator of this thread for bringing
    it off topic.
  created: '2009-03-21 22:37:57'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "@bowerbird \r\n\r\nThanks for keeping it short its about time.\r\nLike it
    or not bowerturd its the truth. \r\nWow its been three weeks now right?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design\r\nNo
    man is an island unto himself_John Donne\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-21 23:24:34'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "plaidjaney said:\r\n>   because it was true and I felt dumb.\r\n\r\nno reason
    for you to feel \"dumb\".  we're brainwashed to believe\r\nthat we live in \"the
    best country on earth\" from a very young age.\r\n\r\nand because, on a huge number
    of dimensions, it is indeed true,\r\nwe come to believe very strongly that it's
    true.  and often it _is_...\r\n\r\nso it's a very thorny thing.  nothing to beat
    yourself up over...\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\n>   Like it or not bowerturd its the truth.\r\n\r\nit's
    clear to everyone in the world that the u.s. \"sets the standard\".\r\n\r\nwe've
    got the bomb, and we have shown we aren't afraid to use it...\r\n\r\nwe also feel
    no compulsion against ripping off third-world resources,\r\nwhich -- combined
    with those from our own large country -- means\r\nwe've been able to live the
    richest lifestyle of anyone for decades now.\r\nwe are the pigs of the planet.
    \ (with apologies to our porcine brothers.)\r\n\r\nand we always win lots of medals
    in the olympics, because we don't\r\nmind cheating -- never have -- and we have
    a fairly large population.\r\n(divide the medal-count by population, and our advantage
    vanishes.)\r\n\r\nand without us, russia probably would have never defeated hitler...\r\n\r\nso
    we got a lot of brownie points for that, for good reason...\r\n\r\nbut china has
    a _very_ large population, and they're getting richer and\r\nricher all the time
    -- stockpiling american dollars and a ton of euros --\r\nand they don't mind cheating
    either, as shown in the last olympics, so\r\nit won't be long before _they_ call
    the shots, um... \"set the standards\"...\r\n\r\nbut hey, on the bright side,
    they have a huge need for font-makers!\r\n\r\n\r\n>   Wow its been three weeks
    now right?\r\n\r\nmore like 16 days and 5 hours.  but who's counting?\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  Thanks for keeping it short its about time.\r\n>   Like it or not bowerturd
    its the truth.\r\n>   Wow its been three weeks now right?\r\n\r\nok, now you're
    screwing up your apostrophes just to mess with me.       :+)\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-22 02:12:31'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Correction.  California sets the standards for the world.  In recent history
    I've not seen a state law take eventually effect national commerce, but I've seen
    quite a few California laws and standards do it.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una
    l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB.
    (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2009-03-22 04:28:41'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Bumper stickers from my youth in Arizona:\r\nGod, guns and guts made America
    great.\r\nNo one every raped my .38.\r\nGas, grass or ass nobody rides for free.\r\n\r\nCurrently
    seen bumper stickers:\r\nNo drama, vote Obama\r\nHope.\r\nJesus es Dios.\r\n\r\nHard
    to make sense of this because the current message is \"why can't we all get along\"
    and the former message was \"don't screw with me\" - yet it feels a little worse
    now.\r\n\r\nNation of Co-Dependants\u2122\r\n\r\npbc\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-22 04:45:11'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "@bowerbird \r\n\r\nIm not the one who is mr intelligent right?\r\nLengthy
    post are a nuisance and so is a person who\r\nmakes them self comfortable with
    people they don't know.\r\nSave the Lengthiness for your e-books or whatever\r\nyou
    do.\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design\r\nNo man is an island unto himself_John Donne\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-22 23:18:24'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "typedog-\r\n\r\nyou are amusing.\r\ni think i'll leave it at that.\r\nhow
    do haiku sound?\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-23 03:44:51'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "Nobody mentioned graffiti or break dancing. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design\r\nNo
    man is an island unto himself_John Donne\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/images-miscellaneous-2006-graffiti-1-500x500_3869.jpg]"
  created: '2009-03-23 21:35:31'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "@bowerbird \r\n\r\nGreat let us bury the hatchet comrade.\r\nJapanese culture,
    you gotta love it. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design\r\nNo man is an island unto
    himself_John Donne\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-23 21:38:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Graffiti has been around for thousands of years.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-23 22:40:51'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "Yes, however modern graffiti took flight in the USA.\r\nSome of these cats
    are ranking in money like leafs on \r\nthe ground. \r\n \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design\r\nNo
    man is an island unto himself_John Donne\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-23 23:41:35'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: ROMANES EUNT DOMUS :)
  created: '2009-03-23 23:44:31'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "Hefty portions when it comes time to chow down.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design\r\nNo
    man is an island unto himself_John Donne\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-23 23:56:56'
date: '2009-03-16 17:23:12'
node_type: forum
title: Objects indicative of American culture.

---
