---
author:
  name: Justin Styler
  picture: 114747
body: "/ THE CHALLENGE\r\n\r\nArial was created as a substitute for Helvetica, but
  most graphic designers consider it a poor substitute, and avoid using it if they
  can.\_\r\n\r\nThe challenge is to redesign Arial, perhaps with small changes, perhaps
  with major changes, but to make it into an alternative to Helvetica that a designer
  could love, maybe even prefer. <cite>Making it look like Helvetica is not allowed.</cite>
  Making it more easily distinguished from Helvetica is a plus. Just as Arial's metrics
  are identical (or nearly so) and its weight and proportions similar, so should the
  \"fixed\" version.\r\n\r\nWinner take all, no holds barred. May the best designer
  win.\r\n\r\n\r\n// REQUIREMENTS\r\n\r\n- Image size: 550 width x 400 height. 72
  dpi*\r\n- Color: Black and White\r\n- Format: JPG or PNG (make sure there are no
  spaces in the name)\r\n\r\n<strong>*Please try to keep your file sizes to a minimum!
  50k per file max.</strong>\r\n\r\n// ABOUT TYPOPHILE <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/typebattles\">TYPE
  BATTLES</a>\r\n\r\nThis is your chance to stretch your type muscles on a weekly
  basis. You have one week to create and submit your entry. Anyone may submit a design
  response to the challenge. You may enter as often as you wish. Post anytime. Critiques
  and comments are welcome throughout the game, from participants and spectators alike.
  Smack talk is encouraged.\r\n\r\nAs with any street battle, there is no panel of
  judges and no prize \u2014 only the ability to call yourself the best on the block.\r\n\r\nLink
  directly to this battle: <strong><a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/battle36\">http://www.typophile.com/battle36</a></strong>\r\nLink
  to the battle directory: http://www.typophile.com/typebattles\r\n\r\n*Thanks to
  Mark Simonson for this week's battle idea!"
comments:
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: What a great idea! Looking forward to seeing the solutions! :)
  created: '2009-03-16 18:58:31'
- author:
    name: Roger S. Nelsson
    picture: 114302
  body: Cool idea! Time-consuming, but very cool... :)
  created: '2009-03-16 18:58:45'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Yeah! This is what I call a great type battle challenge. :-D
  created: '2009-03-16 19:00:18'
- author:
    name: casperobro
    picture: 111406
  body: Good one! :)
  created: '2009-03-16 19:00:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "What's wrong with Arial?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-16 23:34:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I guess I will be the 1st to take a shot at it.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Arialsux_5321.png]\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-16 23:40:33'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Ha!! That really makes me chuckle :)
  created: '2009-03-17 00:50:32'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "Very good idea for a battle!\r\n\r\nThe easiest way for fixing Arial:\r\nSelect
    All > Delete. ;-)"
  created: '2009-03-17 02:58:59'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Basically, what's wrong with Arial is it's too up tight. It needs to un-wind.
    \r\n\r\nIt needs a freaking vacation!\r\n\r\nIt is not that it is good or bad.
    Just an overworked typeface trying to fit in where it wasn't really wanted and
    being wanted where it doesn't really fit in. It feels guilty for being forced
    to do Helvetica's job, even thought Helvetica has been overworked for years and
    years. Designers, the only people on the planet who could pick Arial out in a
    police line-up, despise Arial for being a cheap impostor, even if they also despise
    Helvetica. The fact is, because of its interloper status, it never really gets
    judged for its merit. It's always, \"Oh, that Helvetica wannabe, Arial\u2026\"
    Not that most people judge it all. It's just a steady work horse to most, who
    gets called time and time again to fill in for somebody else because he'll work
    for less, or he's just there: \"Here's a pile-o-crap, would you clean it up for
    me.\" Arial says, \"B,b,b, But \u2026\" but accepts the shovel, sighs and gets
    to work. \"here's a load of cod's wollop. would you dress it up and make it smell
    nice.\" Arial says, \"B,b,b, but,\u2026\"\r\n\r\nSo, my solution was to help Arial
    relax. Get it out of that suit. Send it to the spa for some pampering and a nice
    massage. The whole nine yards. In the Caribbean. On the beach. \r\n\r\nIf you
    want to relax a typeface, what do you do? Why, of course, you convert lines to
    curves, make them smooth & you remove nodes. Lots and lots of them.\r\n\r\nArialicious:
    Arial is so relaxed, he's downright counter-culture. Hand that kid a dooby.\r\n\r\nComarial
    Sans: The tie is loosened, the top button opened, but he's ready to work. Maybe
    something not too demanding down in shipping.\r\n\r\nHelvarial: Think mullet.
    Hockey-hair\u2026 Business in the front, party in the back back.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/arialicious_6713.jpg]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-17 14:53:58'
- author:
    name: tearsforsappho
    picture: 115158
  body: "I just laughed so hard, I almost peed myself.  Now the other designers here
    are wondering what the hell is so darn hilarious.\r\n\r\n<em>Helvarial: Think
    mullet</em>"
  created: '2009-03-17 18:41:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Don't tell them, Katelynn, they will think you are some kind of a type nerd
    :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-17 18:44:53'
- author:
    name: tearsforsappho
    picture: 115158
  body: Well, the Periodic Table of Typefaces hanging on my wall might be a clue...
  created: '2009-03-17 19:03:14'
- author:
    name: Peter Chlebak
    picture: 117019
  body: "I agree ... Arial's really wound up tight. \r\nWas it not also designed to
    be a more on-screen counterpart of Helvetica? Back in the days of lower res monitors,
    it made a difference in smaller sizes, like in body text. You only had like 7
    pixels and no anti-aliasing to define your caps, and Helvetica's humanistic roundness
    didn't resolve as nicely as Arial's straighter lines.\r\n\r\nNow that screen resolutions
    have all but obliterated Arial's advantage, let's take the typeface back to its
    roots to inject some character back into it. Maybe take some influence from Grotesk
    and Gothic faces. And fix some real annoyances while we're at it. Like that God-awful
    cap R leg. And the fugly lowercase a and r. Here's a quick go at it.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/arialnext_6519.gif]"
  created: '2009-03-17 19:20:39'
- author:
    name: fcro
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/arial_4992.png]'
  created: '2009-03-17 22:18:25'
- author:
    name: Jon Evenchen
    picture: 115064
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Untitled-4_4557.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nJon E."
  created: '2009-03-17 23:02:32'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Ok, here's my go. It turned into some kind of Univers/Franklin hybrid...[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ArialBold_6344.gif]
    The problem is I ended up changing things that needn't have been changed. \r\n\r\nDid
    I find new respect for Arial? Not really."
  created: '2009-03-18 01:19:28'
- author:
    name: Rasendyll
  body: "How about 'Arialplate'?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Arialplate_3917.png]"
  created: '2009-03-18 01:28:54'
- author:
    name: vegfarandi
    picture: 117020
  body: "Hello all, I am new here.\r\n\r\n\r\nHere's the original thing:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/arial-original_6322.png]\r\n\r\n\r\nHere's
    my attempt at, if nothing else, making it a bit more interesting:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/arial-redesigned_3457.png]\r\n\r\n\r\nI
    straightened out the slanted terminals (on e, t, f, s, c, g, y and more), changed
    the hight of the stem of the g, changed the a from two storey to one storey and
    added some ligatures. Oh, and I changed the insidious and infamous R."
  created: '2009-03-18 03:01:13'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Your Lubalinesque take is really nice, Vegfarandi, although I think it looks
    more like some kind of Schoolbook Helvetica now. \r\n\r\nHere's mine, it's completely
    redrawn, though too little time is spent on it, most of the curves aren't that
    good. The metrics are identical to Arial's, but the shapes are definitely not.
    \  [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Laira_3742.jpg]"
  created: '2009-03-18 04:16:28'
- author:
    name: AwesomeRobot
  body: "I just did a few minor edits to Arial in Arial. \r\n\r\na, it's the 21st
    century - go on a diet.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/awesomerobot_newarial_3500.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n
    [[http://k-ris.com/awesomerobot_newarial.jpg|JPEG]]\r\n [[http://k-ris.com/awesomerobot_newarial.gif|Animated
    GIF]]"
  created: '2009-03-18 14:58:29'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: I think that if you play with it you may end up with another Helvetica. Is
    that possible?
  created: '2009-03-18 15:46:55'
- author:
    name: vegfarandi
    picture: 117020
  body: Satyagraha, yours is very nice too. Maybe the lack of slanted terminas in
    mine makes it look too much like Helvetica?
  created: '2009-03-18 18:58:36'
- author:
    name: gillo
    picture: 113901
  body: So, in contemplating this challenge I had to do a bit of looking (please forgive
    my amateurish naivety) and I'm wondering if Corbel, to some extent, was meant
    to achieve this? One thing that bothers me about both Arial and Helvetica is that
    the caps don't seem to mix well with the lower case letters. Some of the corbel
    caps mix better, I think, and I think it looks nicer than Arial without looking
    more like Helvetica. (I realize that the point of the battle is for me to come
    up with my own alternative, but if I were to spend the time I think I'd scrap
    Arial and Helvetica and start elsewhere.)  [img:sites/default/files/old-images/arialcorbel_3711.png]
  created: '2009-03-18 21:54:46'
- author:
    name: Nachos
    picture: 116245
  body: The next time I design signage I'm going to recommend purple neon tubing set
    in Arial. That's hot.
  created: '2009-03-18 22:09:05'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: Sorry to troll this thread and I only say it lightheartedly but I hope no-one
    has been editing outlines. Isn't that strictly prohibited?
  created: '2009-03-19 12:05:57'
- author:
    name: Byronb81
    picture: 117027
  body: "Its really the capitol R, lowercase s, and k that bother me, so that's what
    I altered. I knd of liked the lazy little s :)\r\n [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Arial1-_5400.jpg]"
  created: '2009-03-19 18:21:20'
- author:
    name: Nachos
    picture: 116245
  body: "Andrew\r\n\r\nWhy would editing outlines be prohibited? I don't have Fontographer
    so how would you propose fixing Arial or creating swashes otherwise? This is a
    serious question but I feel like an ignoramus asking it."
  created: '2009-03-19 18:28:07'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Not at all Nachos! Some end user license agreements prohibit the editing
    of outlines. I don't mean to be a pedant but I'm curious to know how the Typophile
    copyright heavyweights might answer my question!\r\n\r\nModerator: Should I start
    a new thread? I don't want to cause an armistice mid battle!"
  created: '2009-03-19 22:41:30'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "WELL. There are rules about Jay-walking too, but to <i>save a kitten's <B>LIFE</b></i>,
    wouldn't you cross the street whenever and where ever you had to in a New York
    minute? And to save Arial from it's self, wouldn't any self respecting designer
    do whatever was necessary?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n:o)\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2009-03-20 03:49:54'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "The Microsoft license states that you may not \"reverse engineer\" the font,
    but I don't think that means you can't \"convert text to outlines\" in a graphics
    program, or a great many people would be in big trouble. What you end up with
    when you \"convert to outlines\" is a bunch of shapes that look like Arial, not
    a \"reverse engineered\" font. If graphics programs had a \"convert outlines back
    into text\" command, then there might be reason for concern. \r\n\r\nIf anyone
    is still worried about the issue, you can always work on paper or in a paint program,
    such as Photoshop."
  created: '2009-03-20 04:48:58'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "I assumed some people would edit in FontLab, because playing with outlines
    in Illustrator is a nightmare (no constrain on tangents etc). Arial most regularly
    exists as TrueType and converting to outlines creates lots of extra points. \r\n\r\nI'm
    confused by the different views I hear on Typophile, for me I think that element
    of an EULA is prohibitive and IMHO a bit unnecessary, type battles would suggest
    that other people are comfortable to let it pass (me included, Russ the kitten
    is safe).\r\n\r\nThoughts?"
  created: '2009-03-20 07:58:28'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: It crossed my mind too, but I think it's ok because we're not exporting the
    edited outlines as a font, and not using it, distributing it or even keeping it
    for posterity. I could be wrong.
  created: '2009-03-20 10:19:17'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "FWIW, the extra points show up in FontLab, too, as TrueType curves, which
    are much trickier to edit than B\xE9ziers. But, come on, this wouldn't be a challenge
    if it were easy, would it?"
  created: '2009-03-20 15:11:24'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "Byron,\r\nwhat you\u2019ve altered is Myriad, not Arial, or am I missing
    something?"
  created: '2009-03-20 15:39:47'
- author:
    name: Byronb81
    picture: 117027
  body: Oooh first post on typophile and I blow it lol. Yeah, it was Myriad... Did
    it in the computer lab at my school quickly and it must have been a bit too late
    for proper brain functioning, my apologies >.<
  created: '2009-03-20 19:16:42'
- author:
    name: Nachos
    picture: 116245
  body: Right on. Thank you for the input and explanation all! So here is what I came
    up with. [img:sites/default/files/old-images/slabular_4515.png]
  created: '2009-03-20 20:30:46'
- author:
    name: Alvin Martinez
    picture: 110768
  body: "I could tolerate Arial. In fact I could actually work with it gleefully,
    and use it in large point sizes\u2026if it wasn't for the leg on the uppercase
    R and the sheared top of the lowercase t. Those are deal breakers in my opinion.
    But then again, I am fussy that way."
  created: '2009-03-20 21:43:39'
- author:
    name: Alvin Martinez
    picture: 110768
  body: 'Randy, you entry is spot on. My favorite so far. All it needed was a little
    spit and polish and clarity. Where can I purchase it already?!! : )'
  created: '2009-03-20 21:46:30'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Yo Mark, since this is your idea, where's your solution?\r\n\r\nMy hope is
    that Arial will, in fact, gain a bit of respect as a result of this battle. It
    is easy for me to hate on typefaces because they are popular, or because they
    have flaws, or even because their origins are perceived as being dubious. Comic
    Sans sucks. Ok, draw a better comic sans. Not so easy. I'm not commenting on the
    quality of any executions in this thread, only observing that as I worked on my
    entry below, I decided Arial deserves more credit that I give it. Next battle:
    improve Papyrus (good luck).\r\n\r\nWhat I did: I contemporized Arial while fixing
    a few of the flaws (bad curves on the a, width of the a, anemic r, high-waisted
    R). The result is a blunt terminal Cholla meets Info meets Helvetica typeface
    that is still pretty bland:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/arialneue_6380.gif]\r\n\r\nEdit:
    here is the real mccoy for comparison\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/arialorig_5566.gif]\r\n\r\nWoah,
    when I edited to add that second image I dropped down three comments."
  created: '2009-03-20 21:52:49'
- author:
    name: Alvin Martinez
    picture: 110768
  body: "\"Next battle: improve Papyrus (good luck).\" -- Randy\r\n\r\nI will go one
    further on the difficulty scale. Improve Courier."
  created: '2009-03-20 21:52:57'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: "My 15 minute take:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Arial_Retouch_5296.png]"
  created: '2009-03-20 21:58:03'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: Thx for your kind words. Courier doesn't get half the hate Papyrus has on
    Typophile. Not to mention, it is incredibly executed. Popular yes, but well done.
    (don't forget to turn off the bold).
  created: '2009-03-20 21:58:05'
- author:
    name: John Boardley
    picture: 112920
  body: "5-minute hack:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture-2_4852.png]\r\n\r\nOh,
    you siad \u201Cimprove\u201D it. Oops."
  created: '2009-03-20 22:07:09'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Satyagraha - I like your squaring idea. It reminds me of <a href="http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/creative_alliance/cg_heldustry_vp/">Heldustry</a>,
    Phil Martin's mix of Helvetica and Eurostile.
  created: '2009-03-20 22:15:42'
- author:
    name: vegfarandi
    picture: 117020
  body: "More:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/arial-redesigned-bold_3778.png]"
  created: '2009-03-20 22:28:34'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>Yo Mark, since this is your idea, where\u2019s your solution?</em>\r\n\r\nI
    was hoping I could just sit back and watch the fun. :-)\r\n\r\nHmm."
  created: '2009-03-20 22:39:37'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thanks, Stephen. And thanks for the Heldustry link, I don't think I've seen
    that typeface before. I would really have fancied it, if it weren't for those
    useless rings in \xC5 and \xE5. It's amazing how lazily many professional type
    designers treat diacritics used in languages they don't know. So I guess I have
    to polish up my own quick sketch of a typeface. I actually obeyed (as the only
    contestant so far, I think) the requirement of using Arial's exact widths, which
    severely compromised some of the shapes, the G and the R being the worst examples."
  created: '2009-03-20 22:52:11'
- author:
    name: bbenne10
  body: "First off, I love these entries. I simply wish that Arial got half the creative
    thought displayed here when it was first designed. :/\r\n\r\nThis is my entry.
    Registered just to show my work, though I fear it's rather subpar. \r\n\r\nMostly
    I've edited the capital E, F, G, Q, R and the lowercase a and e, as well as the
    1 and 0. I don't know how 'improved' this makes Arial, but it allows me to play
    with some things I've wanted to implement in my own (forthcoming) typeface. The
    lowercase 'e' is the best example of this, with the disconnected cross stroke.
    The capital R is the only thing I've 'improved', but that's because everyone hates
    the uppercase R. \r\n\r\nThoughts?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/arial_4023.png]"
  created: '2009-03-21 03:08:21'
- author:
    name: merkri
  body: Randy, I actually like that quite a bit. Minimalistic isn't necessarily bland.
  created: '2009-03-21 03:48:33'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Interesting that everyone identifies the cap R as public enemy number one.
    I totally agree. Most people diagnosing the problem with amputation (myself included).
    While the leg is less then ideal, to me it is not the worst problem. The problem
    is that the bowl is too small and the letter is too wide. Fix those two issues,
    and you have a credible R, even with a wonky leg. Don't fix them, and it doesn't
    matter what kind of prosthesis you affix. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/arial_R_5544.gif]\r\n\r\nCool
    that this thread generates enough interest that someone would register for it."
  created: '2009-03-21 05:55:04'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Wow, Randy, I love your entry. I don't think it's boring at all.
  created: '2009-03-21 11:24:59'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: I'd replace Arial with your version any day, Randy. This has great potential,
    you really should develop it into a full font.
  created: '2009-03-21 12:34:16'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>and the letter is too wide. Fix those two issues, and you have a credible
    R</em>\r\n\r\nBut fix the width and you've departed from the premises of this
    battle..."
  created: '2009-03-21 13:14:54'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: I read the instructions as meaning only the metrics can't change?
  created: '2009-03-21 13:41:32'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: Disqualified on a technicality (or nearly so)!
  created: '2009-03-21 13:46:54'
- author:
    name: Rasendyll
  body: Nachos, Arial Slablar is a great effort..... temps me to expand my sample
    of "Arialplate"...well done!
  created: '2009-03-22 01:05:56'
- author:
    name: Roger S. Nelsson
    picture: 114302
  body: "My quick attempt to diversify Arial a bit...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Arialnot_5346.gif]\r\n\r\n(A
    quickie might not be as fulfilling as the real deal, but at least it's _something_
    ;)"
  created: '2009-03-22 08:55:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ariel-fish-friends_3661.jpg]\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-22 15:04:42'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Taking the plunge, eh Chris?
  created: '2009-03-22 15:58:28'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: It's a nice shape, but I'd bring in that tail a little.
  created: '2009-03-22 16:35:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Yes, there is something fishy about the counter space above the tail. ChrisL
  created: '2009-03-22 16:48:08'
- author:
    name: Nachos
    picture: 116245
  body: Rasendyll - Thanks! The instructions do mention however that this fix should
    be made "an alternative to Helvetica that a designer could love, maybe even prefer"
    whereas my take seems more like a display font and would probably not reduce to
    text size very well.  Then again, I'm pretty sure we may have a difficult time
    convincing any designer that use Helvetica religiously to prefer a re-vamped version
    of Arial :)
  created: '2009-03-24 19:02:50'
- author:
    name: Mario Amaya
  body: "I did just that in September 2007. Look at those blog posts (in Portuguese):\r\n\r\nhttp://marioav.blogspot.com/2007/09/arial-no.html\r\nhttp://marioav.blogspot.com/2007/09/arial-no-parte-2.html\r\nhttp://marioav.blogspot.com/2007/09/arial-no-parte-4.html\r\nhttp://marioav.blogspot.com/2007/09/arial-no-parte-7.html\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/arialcorrected-v20_3901.gif]\r\n\r\nI
    boldly called the project \"Arial Corrected\". Fellow typographers here in Brazil
    were afraid of intellectual property conflict, so I changed the name to \"Aerial\",
    then \"Ariel\" (both already in use for commercial typefaces) and finally \"Work
    in Progress\" (only a dumb placeholder name).\r\nIn its present state, the changes
    are still subtle. It's basically Arial minus all those silly oblique endings;
    straightened R, K, G, Q and a; rounder, less squarish curves; better diacriticals.
    It became somewhat more like Univers rather than Helvetica.\r\nBut the gist of
    the current challenge is different. People here want to redesign it. My original
    proposal was to \"fix\" Arial only where it bothered me the most, improving it
    without messing with it too much. But I know I will not be satisfied unless I
    redesign every glyph from scratch, maybe including some optical effect such as
    stylized ink traps.\r\nThe Black weight was the starting point because it is the
    most popular of ANY typeface among common people in Brazil. Everywhere you go,
    it's impossible to avoid coming across multiple instances of Arial Black, usually
    set in CorelDraw and crudely compressed or expanded to fit the available space.
    It's an epidemic. We really need to do something...\r\nCorbel really seems to
    be a reinvention of Arial. There is also a free Linux typeface that was specifically
    designed to substitute Arial. It's called Liberation Sans."
  created: '2009-03-25 08:11:00'
- author:
    name: Rasendyll
  body: Nachos, I suspect much the same is true of my brief attempt-we're probably
    both tecnically outside the rules.  As you say though, I doubts many designers
    will be persuaded to use an Arial revamp in place of Helvetica.  Be it said, I'm
    a fan of Gill Sans mytself...
  created: '2009-03-25 08:43:38'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: 'For those interested, the fixation process continues: http://typophile.com/node/56284'
  created: '2009-03-26 06:46:35'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: Randy, you consistently throw down great work.
  created: '2009-03-26 18:01:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "So Arial Black corrected is Univers 75?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-26 21:08:03'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "[[http://www.overheardinminneapolis.com/2009/03/not-that-nice.html|Recently
    overheard]]:\r\n<em>Woman on mobile phone:</em> They named her Arial. (pause)
    Yes, like the typeface, but it\u2019s a really nice typeface."
  created: '2009-03-27 11:29:15'
- author:
    name: Jared Benson
    picture: 109417
  body: Couldn't agree more. I'm a fan, Randy.
  created: '2009-05-27 17:08:08'
- author:
    name: EsquilloRepublic
  body: 'Wow, This is quite a fun thread. I too just registered after checking out
    this challenge. '
  created: '2009-06-01 21:29:20'
- author:
    name: C.kotylak
    picture: 116691
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/arial_5120.jpg]\r\n\r\nugh that wasn't
    easy, and I didnt even do to much. I think if I had the choice of the old Arial
    or my new \"and improved\" I'd stick with the old. haha"
  created: '2009-06-10 00:01:19'
- author:
    name: gillo
    picture: 113901
  body: "Arial: not just for computers anymore!\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://cgi.ebay.com/Letterpress-Printers-Block-Initials-Set-Arial-Font-3-8_W0QQitemZ250431850618QQcmdZViewItemQQptZLH_DefaultDomain_0?hash=item3a4ee6c87a&_trksid=p3286.c0.m14&_trkparms=65%3A1|66%3A2|39%3A1|240%3A1318|301%3A0|293%3A16|294%3A50\">
    Letterpress Printers Block Initials Set Arial Font 3/8\" on ebay</a>[img:sites/default/files/old-images/arial_4309.jpg]"
  created: '2009-06-21 00:21:41'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Spacing doesn't look too good. I think the Z is upside down, too.
  created: '2009-06-23 01:36:08'
- author:
    name: Francisco Freitas
  body: "registered for an account after seeing this thread\r\n\r\nworking on a version
    right now\r\n\r\nit's Arial with hints of Frutiger/Helvetica :)"
  created: '2011-07-02 18:19:40'
- author:
    name: Francisco Freitas
  body: PS. hope i'm not late to the party
  created: '2011-07-02 18:19:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Arguably a fixed Helvetica is a fixed Arial. And that's been done in style:
    Unica.\r\nIs it too far from Helvetrial to count? The further the better!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-02 19:11:00'
date: '2009-03-16 18:50:30'
title: Type Battle 36 // Fix Arial

---
