---
author:
  name: typerror
  picture: 109491
body: "At least have the courtesy of coming on Typophiles and explaining what you
  are doing instead of having your kids clog up the the site with worthless crap that
  they walk away from once they have posted it.\r\n\r\nLike posting on Typophiles
  gives them some sort of gravitas. That is weak. But I guess that is what passes
  for grades these days!\r\n\r\nMichael\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "Amen to that. Im also tired of\r\nseeing kids clog up the site.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design\r\nNo
    man is an island unto himself_John Donne\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-16 20:37:01'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: 'With due respect, I''m happy to see the students here. Sure, some of them
    waste our time, but I''ve seen a few mature professionals waste our time here,
    too. Let ''em take off the training wheels and get their elbows scraped up a little
    bit. It''s the only way they''ll ever learn to ride. '
  created: '2009-03-16 20:52:39'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Mojo\r\n\r\nGot no problem with the students being here. It is just obvious
    that some, or a lot of them, are just collecting a \"paycheck.\"\r\n\r\nGot no
    use for them! This is a prime example of the cut and run.\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/55078\r\n\r\nThe
    ditz never even came back to the node to realize there was a rationale for the
    design. She/he was just posting for the brownie points.\r\n\r\nAnd Mojo... they
    have to come back to the post to get their elbows scraped. That is why I said
    they post and run... the vast majority of them do. : )\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-03-16 21:04:26'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "This issue has been brought to our attention in recent weeks, and we are
    currently trying to come up with a solution to keep everyone happy. We want to
    encourage student participation on Typophile, but at the same time, this particular
    project is burying an awful lot of interesting content. One possibility is creating
    a new forum for just this type of assignment. \r\n\r\nHow would everyone feel
    about a student forum?\r\n\r\nI wish I had more information about the class and
    what their intentions are, and hope to contact the instructor with some options."
  created: '2009-03-16 21:07:26'
- author:
    name: nepenthe
    picture: 109675
  body: "Isn't the point of having a blog section so that people can post content
    they don't expect a response to? At least that's why I thought this feature was
    added\u2014and also why blogs aren't made accessible from the top menu!"
  created: '2009-03-16 21:21:02'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Zara\r\n\r\nDon't get me wrong. I am not at all bothered by the posts...
    some of them are enlightening. It seems though that the professor has dangled
    the proverbial carrot in front of the students and said, Hey, I will give you
    some points for a \"reasonable post\" and don't worry about those guys because
    the will ignore your posts. That is why I called the \"professors\"  (and I use
    that term lightly) out.\r\n\r\nWhat bothers me is that it is not a learning post
    but a loud and resounding \"HERE\" when the roll is called sort of thing. \r\n\r\nThere
    have been a couple of really nice tours of N.O. signage posted by the students.\r\n\r\nIt
    all boils down to the thoughtful versus the just hand it in idiots.\r\n\r\nSo
    how about it professors?????\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-03-16 21:24:16'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "JP\r\n\r\nThey are not interested in a dialogue. No, that would be  PERIOD.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-03-16 21:27:37'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "Blogs were originally intended for what was once called \"uppercase\" members.
    Members of the community with paid accounts. This no longer exists here, so we
    opened the doors for everyone - and I think that was the right decision. And yes,
    blogs are a great place to post all the stuff no one will respond to in another
    larger forum.\r\n\r\nHowever, the blog section is much more popular than we expected,
    and we hope to surface much more of the content there and provide multiple access
    points. There is some pretty interesting and beautiful stuff in there - some of
    which is coming from these students. Currently, we access blogs by /blog. This
    is a great starting point when the content is fresh and from many sources. But
    for me, personally, I am deterred from exploring the blog section when the first
    2 pages are coming from one source [the class].\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-16 21:29:09'
- author:
    name: nepenthe
    picture: 109675
  body: "I'll grant that it does seem inappropriate for a whole class of students
    to use Typophile as their blog host. It seems a blogger or wordpress setup would
    have been more appropriate. Might it not become a bandwidth problem if other design
    classes follow suit?\r\n\r\n(Speaking of Typophile memberships, I really should
    have a heart by my name since I signed up for the \"love\" membership. I did email
    a query about this a few weeks ago but never got a response. Can you fix this,
    Zara? I think it doesn't show up because I used a different email on Paypal than
    my Typophile email.\u2014Sorry to be off topic!)"
  created: '2009-03-16 21:41:13'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "I was in New Orleans in the early 2000's. AIGA had an East Coast versus the
    West Coast on the Gulf Coast debate with myself and Ed Fella. From the onset I
    had to push back notions from Ed that all fonts should be free and that all the
    old lettering \"guys\" were dead.\r\n\r\nNeedless to say I had to double up on
    my blood pressure medicine, but I made it out alive. Phil Meggs  told me to just
    have fun which I could not even laugh at. \r\n\r\nI found the professors to be
    a, ok. That is why this stumps me. \r\n\r\nWhat are they thinking. It is almost
    as if they are shirking their responsibility.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-03-16 21:47:01'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "As a former student who used Typophile responsibly, I beg that you don't
    confine students to a ghetto forum that none of the \"professionals\" will ever
    look at.\r\n\r\nPerhaps rating/abuse/flagging system where non-moderators can
    flag bad posts could be implemented?"
  created: '2009-03-16 21:56:46'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "<cite>I beg that you don\u2019t confine students to a ghetto forum that none
    of the \u201Cprofessionals\u201D will ever look at.</cite>\r\n\r\nI have a feeling
    that this particular assignment won't benefit at all by professional participation,
    nor do they care if anyone actually views their posts. We'd never \"confine\"
    anyone to a location, however a little content organization doesn't hurt.\r\n\r\n<cite>Perhaps
    rating/abuse/flagging system where non-moderators can flag bad posts could be
    implemented?</cite>\r\n\r\nI agree 100%, and we hope to implement this feature
    soon. We'd do it today if we had the time resources.\r\n\r\n@JP: Thanks for the
    heads up. I'll try to get that out to you soon."
  created: '2009-03-16 22:25:55'
- author:
    name: jhnvilchez
  body: "As a student myself (in California), I opened my own wordpress account/domain,
    and though I'm a new member of typophile, I have been a long time reader. It just
    didn't make sense to post articles here which look more like school assignments.
    Granted my blog wasn't made for a mass amount of readers, it's a nice way of collecting
    old thoughts and keeping in touch with the typography and design world.\r\nJohan
    Vilchez"
  created: '2009-03-17 02:14:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Although it would be helpful to have a \"special interest\" section to house
    the related material*, it's still much better to have it willy-nilly than to not
    have it at all. Calling it \"worthless crap\" just because it doesn't conform
    to one's idea of how Typophile should be used is misguided and ungracious. As
    long as it's about type we should welcome it - especially if it's from students.\r\n\r\n*
    And why not just here: http://typophile.com/forum/2\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-17 02:45:36'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Johan\r\n\r\nYou sound like a youngster with his priorities in line. These
    kids, like I said, are, for the most part, spending their parents money and providing
    very little return. And the professor is aiding and abedding (sp? I even tried
    to look that up because I had never used it in print)!\r\n\r\nSad.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-03-17 02:52:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> spending their parents money and providing very little return.\r\n\r\nPlease
    tell us, Michael: what are your kids like?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-17 03:03:46'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Let them roam. Considering some of the things I have posted here I know I
    have nothing better to say.\r\n\r\nI was really smart when I was 7 - then things
    started interfering.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2009-03-17 03:12:18'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Oldest... finishing her masters in Education.\r\n\r\nMiddle...  well into
    her RN and providing care for the elderly in her spare time!\r\n\r\nAnd Jacob
    is in the fourth grade and doing well.\r\n\r\nCome back you ass. Always trying
    to provoke and always disappearing.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-03-17 03:33:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Do tell the middle one to refill the meds.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-17 03:34:35'
- author:
    name: Graham McArthur
    picture: 109915
  body: "nepenthe says:\r\n\r\n\"(Speaking of Typophile memberships, I really should
    have a heart by my name since I signed up for the \u201Clove\u201D membership.
    I did email a query about this a few weeks ago but never got a response. Can you
    fix this, Zara? I think it doesn\u2019t show up because I used a different email
    on Paypal than my Typophile email.\u2014Sorry to be off topic!)\"\r\n\r\nSame
    for me. I signed for the \"love\" membership last August, but I am used to being
    ignored :)"
  created: '2009-03-17 03:39:32'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "What can I say? You chose the high road! Just like always : )\r\n\r\nYou
    are so .............. you!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-03-17 03:43:18'
- author:
    name: jhnvilchez
  body: "Always entertaining with such respect and playful banter. Love these forums.
    \r\nJohan Vilchez"
  created: '2009-03-17 05:38:49'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Me too Johan. I go to bed after Hrant's witty banter and dream of \"M & M's\"\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-03-17 05:53:08'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "I think that A way to fix the problem if there is any, is checking the submitted
    comments, flag the bad stuff.\r\n\r\nOr, new members would have to wait a few
    days before being able to comment.\r\n\r\nLet's not forget the very famous BILL.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-17 10:36:04'
- author:
    name: gcrivera
    picture: 116667
  body: "May I just say, that as a student being targeted by this forum, our professors
    are not just \"collecting a paycheck\" nor our we just doing this for the \"brownie
    points\". Our professors are merely trying to widen our horizons in the communicative
    and digital media regarding the art of typography. We are using this blog, yes
    as output for homework assignments, but we are also currently preparing work to
    be constructively critiqued by all you professionals. <strong><em>Constructive</em></strong>
    criticism is the best, no? I must admit that I am guilty of \"posting and running\",
    as Michael so cleverly put it, but with every passing class day, our professors
    inspire us to do more [we are only 1st year students, just so you understand].
    It has come to our attention, that when an assignment is due, we do \"flood\"
    the \"Newest\" forum, and for that we apologize, for our intentions are not to
    do so. I was just like to assure you all that our professors are not only instructing
    us in the art of graphic design, but also exposing us to different kinds of media,
    such as this blog. We have an amazing collection of professors who we are all
    very lucky to be learning from. Please do not insult the teaching methods of our
    professors [<strong><em>none</em></strong> of you are in the classroom with us,
    therefore <strong><em>none</em></strong> of you can truly begin to understand
    their motivation behind the assignments like we students can]. I do understand
    how you all would want us to have a separate \"Student Forum\", but I would also
    like to echo DanGayle's sentiments and concur that I would feel that the forum
    would make it hard if not impossible for professionals to view and constructively
    critique our work. But, some organization and content filtering is need. Well,
    that is all I have to say about that. Thank you for your time. \r\n\r\nPeace,\r\nGabi"
  created: '2009-03-18 22:50:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "As I've said before, it's wonderful to see teachers -who too often\r\nare
    just interested in forcing people to listen to them- leverage\r\na place like
    this. Please stay!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-18 23:02:40'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "Most students post garbage and run. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design\r\nNo
    man is an island unto himself_John Donne\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-19 07:19:42'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: WORK HARD AND BE NICE TO PEOPLE
  created: '2009-03-19 11:45:30'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "Gabi, thanks for your input, and I hope you and the other students won't
    get turned off from some of the negativity here.\r\n\r\nWe've been listening to
    everyone's feedback on this issue, and are currently communicating with the instructors
    involved to come up with a solution that will be beneficial to all.\r\n\r\nTypophile
    was founded with the intention of creating a place where students and professionals
    can interact and even collaborate with one another on an equal level. Many of
    our long term users were once students here, in fact that is how I came to discover
    Typophile. Our goal has not changed and we strive to find a balanced solution
    and provide a place for people to share their knowledge and learn from one another.\r\n\r\nWe
    are not going to throw the students in a <cite>ghetto.</cite> The creation of
    a student forum was an idea we considered, however we realize it is not a solution.
    Without going into details, we are looking at ways to consolidate the assignments
    and promote input from the rest of the community.\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-19 18:35:29'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I think the solution would be to give CLASSES a blog area. And then, ideally,
    offer Typophiles a way to choose whether or not to track those particular blogs
    on the tracker.\r\n\r\nThe issue, as many have stated isn't students in general,
    but the vague and pointless assignment requirements made by the professors. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-19 19:05:13'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "<em>Let them roam. Considering some of the things I have posted here I know
    I have nothing better to say.</em>\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nMe neither...\r\n\r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n\r\n[[http://www.thefontry.com|<em>...from
    the Fontry </em>]]"
  created: '2009-03-19 19:20:36'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "Michael,\r\n\r\nI disagree with everything you say on this.\r\n\r\n\r\nStudents,\r\n\r\nPay
    no attention to this, you are warmly welcome here :)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-19 22:34:41'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: We are all students here!
  created: '2009-03-19 22:46:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The best teacher is an eternal student.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-20 00:02:06'
- author:
    name: nab
    picture: 116639
  body: "We are so excited by all of the discussions that have been produced from
    our students posts. What a great learning experience for all involved! We never
    imagined how much this would engage our students and push them to respond, react,
    think and be passionate about typography and design! (Our classroom discussions
    have been quite lively.)\r\n\r\nAlthough New Orleans is an interesting and diverse
    city, it is somewhat sheltered from the current contemporary design/type mainstream
    due in some part to Katrina and in some part to being in the gulf coast. As faculty,
    it's our job to expose the students to new and different forums that are more
    easily experienced in a larger metro area (ie: NYC, Chicago, LA), this is in part
    the reason we decided to require our students to create a blog on Typophile. We
    chose Typophile because we respected the level of information being shared and
    discussed. \r\n\r\nWe recognize our role in our students' lives as being somewhat
    limited, in the sense that we are all they get for 4 yrs. It felt as though we
    needed to encourage them to put their work out in the community and get \"real
    time\" feedback, no matter how harsh that feedback might be. That is part of the
    pedagogy of our teaching. We do give them assignments and state what we are looking
    for specifically, but the students are ultimately the ones in charge of how they
    post their findings. We do not create assignments that are unfounded or without
    purpose, just as people who post or reply to threads on Typophile don't do it
    just for the sake of taking up air time (we hope). We think the reality is that
    some students (just as professionals) will post because they \"need\" to (whatever
    the reason, a grade or filling up space, or really wanting to share ideas/thoughts/projects).\r\n\r\nWe
    stress to our students that design is so much more than just making and sitting
    in front of the computer, it's also about thinking, writing, speaking, critiquing.
    We are so proud of our students for putting themselves out there (for better or
    worse). We should also note that many of our students have ended up in the \"hottest\"
    or \"hand picked\" areas of the site. \r\n\r\nDiscussions are in progress with
    the Typophile team. \r\n\r\nThank you to all the students who have participated
    with this conversation. We commend you for your passion and fortitude. And, don't
    forget, your next blog is due on Sunday at 5pm. "
  created: '2009-03-20 03:10:31'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Education is part of the DNA of Typophile. Typophile itself was Jared Benson's
    BFA project that started with a small grant and an ambitious idea aimed at creating
    dialogue where there wasn't much happening online. \r\n\r\nThe Typophile Film
    Fest 4 titles were a student effort that garnered One Show, TDC and AIGA awards.
    We look forward to other future student collaborations because of the energy and
    passion students bring.\r\n\r\nThere will always be a noise to content ratio in
    online forums where users create the content. Michael's (typerror) comments will
    hopefully help everyone filter themselves (whether they're students or not) and
    bring more value and less noise to the conversation.\r\n\r\nWe had a productive
    conference call with Nancy Bernardo (nab) and a handful of NOLA professors and
    instructors. They shared their vision for helping push their students out of the
    nest and transition them to the real world. Kudos to them. If I were an educator
    I would likely be looking for creative ways to push my students.\r\n\r\nFinally,
    we agreed that creating a student section wouldn't serve the whole community that
    well. Instead, we shared some ideas for how their students might get more from
    Typophile by becoming involved in forum discussions -- not just the blogs -- and
    by blogging their assignments as a group in a single blog thread by having one
    student post the topic and the other students respond in the same thread. This
    way users/readers can opt in to the material and contribute and those who aren't
    interested can easily skip past it without feeling like the material is flooding
    the blog section or burying their own posts. We encourage them to experiment with
    different things to see what fits comfortably with this community."
  created: '2009-03-22 04:53:18'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Hey Joe\r\n\r\nWere you saying I was noisy : ?\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-03-23 19:52:32'
date: '2009-03-16 20:12:15'
title: Hey N.O., LA Professors

---
