---
author:
  name: photosynthesize
  picture: 113756
body: Define the difference between a font and a typeface? Is there one?
comments:
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "Font = Software\r\nTypeface = Letters"
  created: '2009-03-17 13:54:05'
- author:
    name: photosynthesize
    picture: 113756
  body: i don't agree. the word 'fount' has been used for a very long time when referring
    to typesetting.
  created: '2009-03-17 13:55:34'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "Don't we live today? :)\r\nNo, of course I was generalizing but there is
    some truth in there I think.\r\n\r\nA typeface can be drawings on a piece of paper,
    that can never a font be."
  created: '2009-03-17 13:59:55'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: The typeface is the design and the font is the means of reproducing that design.
  created: '2009-03-17 14:06:32'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "Mark Simonson says [[http://typographica.org/001124.php|here]]: \u201CThe
    physical embodiment of a collection of letters (whether it\u2019s a case of metal
    pieces or a computer file) is a font. When referring to the design of the collection
    (the way it looks) you call it a typeface.\u201D"
  created: '2009-03-17 14:14:42'
- author:
    name: photosynthesize
    picture: 113756
  body: '*rubs head confusedly* i reckon the terms have become interchangeable today.'
  created: '2009-03-17 14:19:27'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Too late to cast your vote, too early to read the results:\r\nhttp://www.thomasphinney.com/2009/02/font-name/\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-17 14:39:58'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: The Helvetica available from Adobe, Linotype, Monotype, and Letraset are all
    the same typeface, but different fonts. It's a clear but not very important distinction.
    In practice, I'm happy if I can stop laymen from using "font" to describe hand
    lettering ("He wrote a note on the chalkboard in a really big font." NO).
  created: '2009-03-17 16:50:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>i reckon the terms have become interchangeable today.</em>\r\n\r\nThey're
    interchangeable until you need to make a distinction. In practice, this means
    that for the typical user, they are interchangeable, while for type professionals
    they are more like to be used in a more precise and differentiated way. I need
    to be able to distinguish between a design and an implementation of that design
    in a particular technology. As you say, the word \u2018fount\u2019 has been around
    for a long time, but it has always referred specifically to a particular implementation
    of a typeface: formerly a tray of metal type at a particular size -- e.g. \u2018a
    10pt font of Times New Roman\u2019 --, then to a set of Linotype matrices or a
    Monotype matrix case, then to a variety of glass and film negatives or positives,
    and most recently to software."
  created: '2009-03-17 17:15:53'
- author:
    name: Nachos
    picture: 116245
  body: 'True, with digital scalable lettering the distinction becomes less important.
    Prior to digital type a font was a complete set of characters of a certain weight
    and size i.e. <strong>16pt Bodoni Bold</strong>, whereas <strong>Bodoni</strong>
    would be the Typeface. '
  created: '2009-03-17 17:17:58'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I'm well into writing up my survey results, but have a way to go yet before
    I'm done.\r\n\r\nUnfortunately I'm traveling at the moment, and speaking at a
    conference tomorrow. But I should find time over the next few days to finish that
    up.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-03-17 22:06:23'
- author:
    name: megax
  body: "Very simply put: A typeface is a set of one or more fonts. \r\n\r\nTypeface
    = Parent; \r\n           Font = Child; "
  created: '2009-03-17 22:56:20'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "If your mother tongue is Dutch, German, French or Spanish, and you are asked
    for the equivalents of \"font\" and \"typeface\", what do you say?\r\n\r\nPlease
    fill in:\r\n\r\n<strong>font:</strong>\r\nDutch:\r\nGerman:\r\nFrench:\r\nSpanish:\r\n\r\n<strong>typeface:</strong>\r\nDutch:\r\nGerman:\r\nFrench:\r\nSpanish:\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-18 06:40:18'
- author:
    name: daniele capo
    picture: 113718
  body: The problem is discussed in Robin Kinross, Unjustified texts
  created: '2009-03-18 08:02:23'
- author:
    name: mattmatthew
  body: "I've always believed that -\r\n\r\nFonts are Typefaces generated specifically
    for digital use;\r\n\r\nAnd that Typefaces were inclusive of all lettering designed
    to be used for mass production and/or consumption.\r\n\r\nI could be wrong, though.\r\n\r\nI
    seem to recall author Simon Loxley of Type: The Secret History of Letters writing
    that he also believed this to be the definition."
  created: '2009-03-18 08:17:29'
- author:
    name: ahaydnjones
  body: 'There is most definitely a stark difference between a Font and a Typeface
    as can be found here: http://blog.anthonyjones.biz/2009/01/typography-101-fonts-vs-typefaces/'
  created: '2009-03-18 09:19:32'
- author:
    name: photosynthesize
    picture: 113756
  body: gah, the anthony jones blog contradicts what other people are saying e.g.
    nachos' post.
  created: '2009-03-18 11:08:05'
- author:
    name: Ad_Junkie_At_Large
  body: "Font: A single cut from a type family (one point size). ex. Helvetica Bold
    10pt\r\n\r\nTypeface: The entire family (all sizes). ex. Helvetica"
  created: '2009-03-18 14:43:39'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "Thank you, Ad_Junkie_At_Large for the correct answer. Although, the point
    size is not really a deciding issue any more with digital format.\r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n\r\n[[http://www.thefontry.com|<em>...from
    the Fontry </em>]]"
  created: '2009-03-18 16:15:07'
- author:
    name: photosynthesize
    picture: 113756
  body: wow, so we're saying every instance of a typeface is an individual font? helvetica
    bold 10pt, helvetica bold 11pt, helvetica bold 12pt etc?
  created: '2009-03-18 16:16:45'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "Although, the point size is not really a deciding issue any more with digital
    format.\r\n\r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n\r\n[[http://www.thefontry.com|<em>...from
    the Fontry </em>]]"
  created: '2009-03-18 16:19:21'
- author:
    name: photosynthesize
    picture: 113756
  body: so how do we know that you are correct, phrostbyte, and not anthony jones,
    who says the complete opposite?
  created: '2009-03-18 16:22:29'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "Ask anyone who has ever used metal type. Personally, I can only tell you
    what the old guys say. That is what a font and typeface was. What is it now? Maybe
    Anthony Jones can redefine things as he see fit. \r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n\r\n[[http://www.thefontry.com|<em>...from
    the Fontry </em>]]"
  created: '2009-03-18 16:33:48'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Because he is.\r\n\r\nIt just so happens that most digital typefaces are
    designed for one font size, say, 12pt for text, 18pt for display. The fact that
    we scale them to whatever we want doesn't mean that it isn't one cut, or font.
    Each different weight is a different cut, or font. Each style is a different cut
    or font. The size isn't specified any more, but it is implied, even though we
    ignore it.\r\n\r\nWhen you get into the optical sizes, then you even start to
    restore some more of the original meaning of a specific typeface cut for a specific
    size/weight/style. Garamond Premier Pro Light Italic DISPLAY, where DISPLAY is
    Adobe's way of saying 36pt or whatever."
  created: '2009-03-18 16:42:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "megax:<em>Very simply put: A typeface is a set of one or more fonts.\r\nTypeface
    = Parent;\r\nFont = Child;</em>\r\n\r\nNope, that doesn't work, because a \u2018set
    of fonts\u2019 may also imply a typeface family, which consists of more than one
    typeface, e.g. Time Roman, Times Italic, Times Bold, etc., all of which are separate
    typefaces. The best way to understand the distinction between typeface and font
    is not to try to define a relationship between the two -- e.g. parent and child
    --, but to realise that the distinction is meaningful precisely because the relationship
    is multivalent. And it is multivalent because of the variety of font technologies
    and how those technologies embody typefaces. For instance, a single typeface might
    be embodied in a single font (typically the case for OT fonts), but it might also
    be embodied in muliple fonts (as was the case with many typefaces in Type 1 format,
    requiring separate fonts for ligatures etc.), or multiple typefaces might be embodied
    in a single font (as is the case with individual Asian fonts containing both roman
    and italic Latin companions)."
  created: '2009-03-18 19:02:46'
- author:
    name: Nachos
    picture: 116245
  body: "I would agree with John's comments.\r\n\r\n@ photosynthesize - Was there
    a specific instance in which you were confused on what term to use? Or was this
    just a general question to the typeaholics at large?\r\n\r\nLooking forward to
    seeing those survey results Thomas.\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-18 19:12:12'
- author:
    name: Nachos
    picture: 116245
  body: Sorry about the double post.
  created: '2009-03-18 19:13:19'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> Times Roman, Times Italic, Times Bold, etc., all of which are separate
    typefaces\r\n\r\nNo they aren't. They are all members of the Times typeface. They
    are separate fonts. (And at one time each size of them would be a separate font.)"
  created: '2009-03-18 20:13:03'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Tracking
  created: '2009-03-18 20:51:01'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Sorry, Don, but there has been consistent use of the term typeface in a way
    that distinguishes between major styles, weights and widths. Historically, the
    reason for this is obvious, because the idea of marketing e.g. roman and italic
    typefaces under a single name is a relatively recent phenomenon. Even as late
    as the 1930s, Eric Gill conceived his roman (Perpetua) and italic (Felicity) under
    separate names. It is also worth noting that some typefaces were independently
    conceived and only later, and sometimes erroneously, associated, e.g. the pairings
    of Garamond romans with Granjon italics.\r\n\r\nWe have a separate term -- typeface
    family -- to refer to a collection of separate-but-related typefaces under a single
    name."
  created: '2009-03-18 21:09:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Are Bodoni and Garamond typefaces?\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-18 22:34:34'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "They must be typefaces, Nick, for we often see colophons that tell us books
    have been set in \"Bodoni\" or \"Garamond.\" \r\n\r\nBut maybe there is more than
    one kind of Garamond, for sometimes we see colophons that tell us a book has been
    set in \"A Garamond.\" This leads me to believe there must be more than one type
    named Garamond, but I still don't know which of those possible Garamonds. This
    is all very confusing.\r\n\r\nStill more confusing are some of the other (often
    strange) words appended to typeface names. I see colophons that mention \"ITC\"
    or \"Monotype\" or \"Linotype\" Baskerville, for instance. And what is this \"Adobe\"
    I see with typefaces names? Is that stuff not mud and straw and ox blood?\r\n\r\nMaybe
    someone can help clear this up for me. Good night.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2009-03-19 02:20:37'
- author:
    name: mehallo
    picture: 109684
  body: "Oh, c'mon, Bodoni and Garamond were people. ;)\r\n\r\nBut what I tell my
    students is the metal type definition (see above) and then relate that 'font'
    is a cool sounding word that we now apply to the whole thing. \r\n\r\nI even know
    someone who will refer to the plural, fonts, as font. Like: \"I use a lot of font.\"\r\n\r\nAnd
    I don't have the heart to correct her. Anymore. She wasn't listening. Hell, it
    might catch on eventually. \r\n\r\n\"I make font.\" \r\n\r\n\"I use font.\" \r\n\r\n\"Font:
    gooood.\"\r\n\r\nThen I point out: right now there really is no master committee
    that oversees all this, so like the English language, \"font\" is now a funky
    term that everyone knows, is used to sell a product; but at this point, who knows
    what it really, really is ... today. \r\n\r\n(if we actually knew, there wouldn't
    be so many posts on this page)\r\n\r\nSo ... \r\n\r\nThis is bugging me:\r\n\r\nAnyone
    have any idea what the term \"logo\" means these days??\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-19 03:12:10'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I'll say this much about my survey results: I believe each of the statements
    below, made in this thread, would get a bit over half of all respondents agreeing.\r\n\r\nGoran
    (in post #2): <cite>Font = Software, Typeface = Letters</cite>\r\n\r\nMetalfoot
    (in post #5): <cite>The typeface is the design and the font is the means of reproducing
    that design.</cite>\r\n\r\nmegax (in post #12): <cite>A typeface is a set of one
    or more fonts. Typeface = Parent; Font = Child.</cite>\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-03-19 04:36:58'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Even though, in my mind, there is a difference, I think Steve (mehallo) makes
    a good point. Words derive meaning from the way they are used, not from what people
    say they mean (or should mean).
  created: '2009-03-19 04:47:49'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "This issue is also discussed in <a href=\"http://fontfeed.com/archives/font-or-typeface/\">Font
    or Typeface?</a>, on The FontFeed.\r\n\r\nAnd Allan Haley has his say on the matter
    in <a href=\"http://www.aiga.org/content.cfm/theyre-not-fonts\">\"They're Not
    Fonts!\"</a>, on AIGA's website."
  created: '2009-03-19 04:49:16'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Words derive meaning from the way they are used, not from what people
    say they mean (or should mean).</em>\r\n\r\nYeah, that's true. The way the word
    \"font\" was used in the days of lead type has changed because the technology
    (and the access to that technology) has changed."
  created: '2009-03-19 04:52:52'
- author:
    name: satwik
  body: Font is no longer size-specific, but still refers to a single style. Bulmer
    regular, Bulmer italic, Bulmer bold and Bulmer bold italic are four fonts, but
    one typeface.
  created: '2009-03-19 05:17:19'
- author:
    name: satwik
  body: "Wikipedia says that font has now become a metonym for typeface. It's great
    people here are trying to prevent that. Metonymy (IPA: /m\u0268\u02C8t\u0252n\u0268mi/)
    (from the Greek: \u03BC\u03B5\u03C4\u03C9\u03BD\u03C5\u03BC\u03AF\u03B1, met\u014Dnym\xEDa,
    \"a change of name\", a suffix used to name figures of speech, \"name\") is a
    figure of speech used in rhetoric in which a thing or concept is not called by
    its own name, but by the name of something intimately associated with that thing
    or concept."
  created: '2009-03-19 05:22:01'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Wikipedia is wrong on this. That may be the trend, but we're not *quite*
    there yet. At least, not among graphic designers. Maybe among the general public.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-03-19 05:29:39'
- author:
    name: satwik
  body: I completely agree! That's why i said it's really great that people here are
    trying to prevent that from happening
  created: '2009-03-19 05:41:02'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: "When I'm talking to other designers I use the word \"type,\" when talking
    to non-designers I say \"fonts.\"\r\n\r\nThey are the same thing to 99% of the
    population, who has no need to make a distinction because their only dealing with
    fonts/type is in Microsoft Word.\r\n\r\nOf course the distinction is an extremely
    important one to explain in design education, because talking about the aesthetic
    properties of a typeface is an entirely different conversation from the technical
    aspects of font production. "
  created: '2009-03-19 07:49:14'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I\u2019ve really been cranking on the survey analysis write-up late tonight
    (instead of, say, hanging out with Paul Hunt who has been good enough to put me
    up for three nights in San Jose). But I\u2019m *still* not done, and I need to
    get some sleep now. pfeh. Even if Tiffany isn\u2019t free for brunch tomorrow,
    I don\u2019t think I can get it done before my flight. Bah, humbug!\r\n\r\nBut
    mmm, sleep.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-03-19 08:03:46'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[Some of this repeats things already mentioned above. Following is my take.]\r\n\r\nLike
    the term 'leading', 'typeface' and 'font' evoke the metal era. \r\n\r\nA typeface
    was what was cut by the punchcutter, and a font or 'fount' was what was poured
    by the foundry. What was cut made up a cohesive set, and what was poured filled
    an order. In other words, the font was the deliverable, but what's on the face
    of the deliverable is what was categorized and named.\r\n\r\nPunchcutters cut
    <em>typical</em> representatives of conventional or iconic letterforms. Hence
    the term 'type.' They cut them more or less according to a pattern, and as a set.
    The typeface is the 'cut set' originating in a specific time and place. It can
    be added to at a later date.\r\n\r\nThe cut set could include an italic and small
    caps. So that typeface encapsulates a roman, an italic and small caps. Another
    typeface might not. The italic, roman and small caps would be deliverable as separate
    fonts.\r\n\r\nIn the digital era a font became a deliverable item in a font-suitcase,
    and a typeface became what is digitally 'graphed.' As a design, for instance,
    the typeface univers has many weights and widths, as well as obliques; a full
    font suitcase contains a document for each of these. Some users will have univers
    but only as a selection of these fonts.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-19 14:03:58'
- author:
    name: tonykuehn
    picture: 117029
  body: "Well said enne_son, it's nice to know that not everyone has forgotten what
    type really used to be.\r\n\r\nIn my letterpress classes (and by my old-school
    design adviser) we were taught that a typeface is Helvetica and a font is Helvetica
    Bold (or italic, or whatever) and that point size usually didn't figure into the
    nomenclature, but I think that is mostly due to the digital age where point size
    is easily changed, and isn't a matter of going and finding the 35 pound drawer
    of type in a different size. I think all graphic designers should be required
    to take a letterpress class. It's one thing to say you get what leading is, it's
    another to hold a 10pt. lead in your hand and find out first hand why capital
    letters get called \"upper case\" and to smell the ink and... I'm getting all
    sentimental here.\r\n\r\nNext all of us young designers can take a compositing
    class and find out why the white space around your InDesign document is called
    the pasteboard..."
  created: '2009-03-19 14:47:46'
- author:
    name: mehallo
    picture: 109684
  body: "I know what a pasteboard is! \r\n\r\n(used to be a damn good paste up artist
    too; doesn't come in handy much anymore) :("
  created: '2009-03-20 02:56:55'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "I miss the old paste up days. The rush that comes from 5pm deadlines and
    its 4:30. Stripping and re-using ancient paste boards because the boss is too
    cheap to buy anything new. The smell of hot wax and pizza on those all nighters.
    And, barely dry PMTs and wax, that was good too. Clip art that was actually clipped.\r\n\r\nI'm
    too old for that crap.\r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n\r\n[[http://www.thefontry.com|<em>...from
    the Fontry </em>]]"
  created: '2009-03-20 10:29:14'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "Here's an OLD GUY checking in, phrostbyte.\r\n\r\nWhen I was a young guy,
    daily working in letterpress book printing shops and in a Monotype house a \"font\"
    was a wrapped-up package of, say, 12-point Garamont. Another font would contain
    12-point Garamont italic. Another would have 12-point Garamont small caps. Three
    other fonts would have those same typefaces, but in 11-point. And so forth.\r\n\r\nThe
    typeface was Garamont or Garamont italic or Garamont small caps. I disagree with
    enne_son that a typeface \"encapsulates\" roman, ital, and smalls. To the compositor
    on the floor, assembling a book or an ad, or to the guy who ties and wraps the
    fonts, the roman, the ital, and the smalls are different typefaces.\r\n\r\nYet
    it is indeed possible to speak of Garamont as a typeface in a more general sense,
    as in \"That beautiful book is set in Garamont.\" A more thorough description
    of the book might note that three typefaces (rom, ital, and smalls) had been used,
    each in several sizes. \r\n\r\nNowadays, sitting in front of a computer, a font
    is the digital data that allows me to see a typeface on a screen or to allow that
    typeface to be printed on paper. MyFonts describes LTC Garamont as \"a font family
    of 12 fonts.\"\r\n\r\nThe typeface is what I see on that screen or on that sheet
    of paper or on a tee shirt, etc.\r\n\r\nB U T :  This may be an issue on which
    we must agree to disagree. Just in this short thread there are quite a few differences
    between font and typeface, based on good thought and experience. And then there
    is the wider world's use of \"font\" to describe everything from printed typefaces
    to the words \"I love Cheryl\" scratched in the oceanside sand with a pointed
    stick. \r\n\r\npowers\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-20 14:10:02'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Will, I said: \"The cut set could include an italic and small caps. So <em>that</em>
    \ typeface encapsulates a roman, an italic and small caps [my emphasis; gloss:
    meaning that particular]. <em>Another typeface might not.</em> [emphasis added]\"
    I think 'typeface' is a plastic term -- it had and has an elastic use. I like
    to tie it to a deliberately cohesive set of punches cut at a particular time and
    place. \r\n\r\nI suppose my post was as much a proposal as a description of actual
    or conventional use. ITC Garamond Italic can be the italic sorts in the ITC Garamond
    face. An added complication of course is that garamond became a generic name for
    a class of typefaces."
  created: '2009-03-20 14:37:06'
- author:
    name: photosynthesize
    picture: 113756
  body: "nachos, i was just interested in the opinion of the experts. :D\r\n\r\ni
    sure do like stimulating debate. "
  created: '2009-03-20 15:09:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Mark: <em>Words derive meaning from the way they are used, not from what
    people say they mean (or should mean).</em>\r\n\r\nUndeniably true, although the
    implications of this statement are often ignored of seldom thought-through. One
    implication derives from the observation that the same word is used in different
    ways by different people: meaning, while seldom idiosyncratic, varies among different
    communities. Another implication is that people saying \u2018what words mean (or
    should mean)\u2019 are in fact reporting either how they use those words or how
    they think those words should be used.\r\n\r\nAs I wrote in my first post in this
    discussion, I agree that font and typeface are interchangeable terms for a great
    many people, largely metonymic in common use. But I'm a professional type designer
    and font developer, and I use the terms distinctively in a way that is meaningful,
    i.e. useful, within the context of my work. And I'm not about to abandon that
    distinctive use, because I need to be able to talk precisely with others in my
    professional community, so a usage that conflates or confuses the two terms is
    not useful to me.\r\n\r\nThomas, I hope the written results of your poll will
    pay due attention to varying use in different communities. It is often the case
    that a more precise use of terminology exists within a minority community or subculture,
    whereas a less precise use prevails in the larger populace. But it is also the
    case that this usually implies a greater importance of the terminology among the
    minority, who have particular reasons to desire greater precision."
  created: '2009-03-21 01:59:01'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Exactly. What drives scientists mad is the way ordinary people use the word
    "theory". Same thing with "font" for us.
  created: '2009-03-22 14:52:33'
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: No.
  created: '2009-03-23 00:44:26'
- author:
    name: photosynthesize
    picture: 113756
  body: thanks for your contribution, newguy.
  created: '2009-03-23 09:29:21'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: ">>It is often the case that a more precise use of terminology exists within
    a minority community or subculture, whereas a less precise use prevails in the
    larger populace.\r\n\r\n\"What do you do?\"\r\n\r\n\"Well, I develop typeface
    systems for use in a broad spectrum of print and digital media.\"\r\n\r\n\"What?\"\r\n\r\n\"I
    make fonts.\"\r\n\r\n\"Oh, really? People make fonts?\""
  created: '2009-03-23 14:44:05'
- author:
    name: Thomas Levine
    picture: 112734
  body: This was definitely discussed on here a while ago. It got just as messy. But
    I can't find it.
  created: '2009-03-23 14:51:32'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Thomas Phinney has published the results of his aforementioned survey on
    this terminology:\r\nhttp://www.thomasphinney.com/2009/04/font-terms-survey-results/"
  created: '2009-04-05 10:41:05'
date: '2009-03-17 13:53:13'
title: The difference between a font and a typeface. Is there one?

---
