---
author:
  name: dezcom
  picture: 109959
body: "MyFonts had been giving type designers 65% of the retail price of their fonts
  since its inception. I just went to their page and saw that they now proudly claim
  they give a 50% share:\r\n\"MyFonts is a highly efficient and high-volume vehicle
  for selling fonts. As a result, you will receive an unusually high 50% of the actual
  price paid by a customer for your fonts!\"\r\n\r\nI am really depressed. Say it
  isn't so!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
comments:
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Here is the link to the MyFonts page I quoted above:\r\n\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/info/prospectus/\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-17 16:17:59'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Mr Coles mentions a 65% rate here... \r\n\r\nhttp://typographica.org/001157.php
    \r\n"
  created: '2009-03-17 16:20:06'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Here you go - you can check these links and see at what point it changed...
    \r\n\r\nhttp://web.archive.org/web/*/http://www.myfonts.com/info/prospectus/"
  created: '2009-03-17 16:22:40'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Dammit dammit dammit! I was about to sign with them too. Does anybody else
    now offer a better deal?
  created: '2009-03-17 16:24:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Here is a screenshot of the prior page with the 65% rate:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/myfontsOld_3677.png]\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-17 16:24:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks, Si.\r\n\r\nThat is a HUGE cut and really depressing to see designers
    getting the shaft again :-(\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-17 16:29:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I hope Jos and other type designers who have been with MyFonts for a while
    will chime in and tell us if ther percentage went down for recent sales as well.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-17 16:33:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...unusually high 50%...</em>\r\n\r\nActually, that is the norm.\r\nSomeone
    just changed the number, without editing the sentence for meaning.\r\n\r\nMyFonts
    has always offered good added value while returning a high percentage royalty,
    and still does at 50%.\r\nFor instance, there is no other foundry or reseller
    that has an interactive Type Tester that demonstrates OpenType features. If you
    are publishing OpenType fonts, that is \"priceless\".\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-17 16:40:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "That is what I meant, Nick. Everybody pays 50% if you do all the work and
    submit release ready files. The percentage is less if they help you finnish and
    prep the fonts, though.\r\nSo now what has MyFonts got as a big advantage? Nothing!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-17 16:40:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nick,\r\n\r\nDid your percentage go down for recent sales from MyFonts or
    has it stayed the same?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-17 16:41:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "As I said Chris, the OpenType type tester, and also a lot of other marketing
    services.\r\nBTW, you are confusing reselling with manufacturing/publishing.\r\nResellers/retailers
    pay 50% and do nothing to the font files."
  created: '2009-03-17 16:43:47'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "What do designers get for the extra 15%? For foundries 50% is still more
    than they get reselling their back catalogs through some of the other big vendors.
    But to a new font designer I don\u2019t see much reason to go right to MyFonts
    at 50%\u2014there of foundries that pay 50% and will go out of their way to help
    with the final design, production, and testing of the fonts. MyFonts marketing
    is good, but I don\u2019t see it as being worth another 15% now that Twitter,
    Facebook, and YouTube have made online marketing much easier and less expensive
    than it used to me. "
  created: '2009-03-17 16:45:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Chris, I can't discuss my percentage, for contractual reasons.\r\nI'll big-up
    any and all of my distributors for what they do well, but I can't criticize them
    individually or talk specifically about the business arrangements I have with
    them"
  created: '2009-03-17 16:46:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "James, MyFonts has established its brand and has massive traffic.\r\n\r\n\"Get
    a taste kid, you might like it.\""
  created: '2009-03-17 16:49:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks, Nick. I understand. I don't want you to get into a problem about
    it, sorry.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-17 16:51:51'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>James, MyFonts has established its brand and has massive traffic.</cite>\r\n\r\nI\u2019ll
    defer to you on the value of the MyFonts brand and assume that it\u2019s worth
    the 15%, then."
  created: '2009-03-17 16:53:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It is actually more like a 25% reduction for the designer.\r\n\r\n ChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-17 17:06:30'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>It is actually more like a 25% reduction for the designer.</cite>\r\n\r\nGood
    point. Math isn\u2019t really my strong suit."
  created: '2009-03-17 17:43:46'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "dezcom said:\r\n>   It is actually more like a 25% reduction for the designer.\r\n\r\ni'd
    say myfonts just raised their price by 42.85%.\r\n\r\nthey used to take a 35%
    cut, and now a 50% cut.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-17 17:52:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...for the designer...</em>\r\n\r\nActually, these percentages are for
    the foundries that MyFonts distributes, not for the designer--unless he or she
    owns the foundry."
  created: '2009-03-17 18:30:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "You are right, Nick. I was assuming most of the designers there were selling
    their own work.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-17 18:42:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> MyFonts had been giving type designers 65% of the\r\n> retail price of
    their fonts since its inception.\r\n\r\nActually at the beginning it was 85%!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-17 18:48:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "85%?\r\n\r\nWow! I didn't know that. How long ago was that, Hrant?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-17 18:50:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Maybe the first two years?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-17 19:03:39'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Chris, the most important thing in a distribution agreement isn't the percentage
    that you get, but the number of transactions that your fonts have.\r\n\r\nIf you
    sell 100 fonts at $30 a piece on a site that gives you 65%, then you get $1950.
    But if you sell 300 fonts at $30 a piece on another site that gives you 50%, then
    you get $4500. And zero font sales at $30 a piece on a site that gives you as
    much as 85% of each sale will only net you $0. You shouldn't assume that any two
    sites will sell the same number of your fonts.\r\n\r\nIn fact, I'd go so far as
    to say that the MyFonts today is more likely to sell more of your fonts than say,
    the MyFonts of two years ago (or any arbitrary figure\u2026). Look at MyFonts.com
    as a full package. They have a new site, with features that Nick already pointed
    out. Look at their newsletters. They didn't do as much promo a few years ago as
    they do now. They have regular content being written by (at least) Jan Middendorp,
    JLT, and Nick Sherman, at least that is how it looks to an outsider like me.\r\n\r\nAsk
    not what you can do for the site; ask what the site can do for you.\r\n\r\nOf
    course, I don't have any direct info to back it up, but I'll bet a good beer and
    donut that it is those newsletters (and other marketing and list activities) that
    sell fonts on MyFonts more than any other factor. If I were a designer considering
    whether or not to list my fonts there, those are the sorts of things that I would
    look at. Not the exact cut that you get.\r\n\r\nAfter you get a good look at what
    you'll really get at MyFonts, compare that with other options. Stephen Coles'
    Typographica article is a good start. Fill in the gaps with offline discussions
    with designers you know who have chosen different options. Many people aren't
    going to be able to talk about their contracts (or royalty figures) on a public
    forum. The internet is great, but it is not for everything :)\r\n\r\nIn the end,
    maybe MyFonts would be the best bet for you. Or maybe your research will point
    to better chances via another route. You won't be able to come to that conclusion
    just by comparing royalty rates."
  created: '2009-03-17 19:52:24'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: I wonder if this is a harbinger of the dropping of royalty rates at other
    venus? If MyFonts, with all of its perceived value is paying 50%,  perhaps some
    of the other larger resellers, who may not offer as much, will rethink their 50%
    royalty. Race to the bottom?
  created: '2009-03-17 19:57:11'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Looking at the MyFonts library, they appear to take pretty much anyone who
    submits, no? If so, perhaps that is part of the puzzle.
  created: '2009-03-17 19:58:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "James,\r\nI think they do take all comers who can make a working product
    and who are not pirates. I don't think they would deny anyone who submitted a
    less than stellar design but I think they might not allow one that was technically
    unsound and buggy. They also expect a full character set--at least as full as
    the old type 1 model.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-17 20:17:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks, Dan. I am not sure how I could get all the other data on volume but
    I see your point.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-17 20:18:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "James, sadly I think you're right, on all counts.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-17 20:26:15'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Chris: Yes, you've got it. They expect a really basic level of technical
    functionality, that glyphs render and it doesn't crash anything, and a basic character
    set. Beyond that, there isn't a quality barrier at all.\r\n\r\nBut even so, they
    couldn't make money very effectively when taking only a 15% slice. At 35% they
    were able to be profitable. I'm sure they'll do very well for themselves at 50%.\r\n\r\nI
    think Dan put it very well regarding comparing different licensing arrangements
    to resellers, though.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-03-17 20:46:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks, Thomas. I hope all is well with you and your family.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-17 20:58:05'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I think MyFonts \"take all comers\" approach may have finally caught up with
    them, and they are lowering their royalty payments due to the expense of carrying
    all of that \"dead wood\". \r\n\r\nPerhaps the more discerning organizations like
    FontShop may be better able to keep their royalty at the current level."
  created: '2009-03-17 21:02:26'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>\u2026due to the expense of carrying all of that \u201Cdead wood\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat
    expense? Those old fonts just take up a tiny bit of disk space; they don\u2019t
    need to sell very many of them to pay for that."
  created: '2009-03-17 21:10:12'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: "@james (both, I guess)\r\nDead wood = the hundreds of bad fonts that get
    in the way when searching for something good to license. It's not about file size
    at all, it's about shopping for nice fonts."
  created: '2009-03-17 21:26:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It may cost more to do the labor of deciding which fonts make the grade than
    just allowing all comers. They may find a way to sort the crap to the bottom though
    to make searching quicker for thr better customers.\r\nThe other thing is, who
    is to say that there are not plenty of customers who like crap? Never underestimate
    the taste of the average consumer. They could have a metadata search term called
    \"kaka\"added to keywords :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-17 21:54:08'
- author:
    name: barkeep
    picture: 111198
  body: 'interesting seeing this post and that font designers get as much as 50% of
    the retail price from online font stores. Most of our clients who sell physical
    products to stores large and small get only 1/3 or less of the retail price. '
  created: '2009-03-17 22:32:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "What products?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-17 22:42:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I see the business as a whole becoming more sophisticated.\r\nAt the moment,
    ads are free, and there is no standard size.\r\nNoting that MyFonts now has a
    sponsored font in its latest newsletter, I can imagine that in future, resellers
    will charge to place foundry ads in high-traffic positions, and that this would
    be a more significant means of generating revenue than cutting royalties.\r\ntwo
    years ago I released a typeface, and provided all my distributors with advertising
    material and a launch date.\r\nIt was a disaster; few of them even used my ads,
    or released the font anywhere near the suggested release date.\r\nBut I am optimistic
    that things will improve and become less amateurish.\r\nIf resellers want to charge
    for ads, they can't continue to make the ads themselves, and run them at their
    discretion.\r\nAnd if I'm going to be paying for an ad, then the revenue from
    it must warrant the expense, which means there must be a balance between the cost
    of the ad, the number of fonts sold, and the royalty percentage.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-17 23:05:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nick,\r\nWas the problem that they did not coordinate with your release date?
    I assume they allwere early.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-17 23:44:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Sherman
    picture: 112002
  body: "Hi Chris (and others),\r\n\r\nWe at MyFonts made the choice recently to switch
    to a 50/50 percentage agreement for several reasons, but the most notable is the
    simple fact\u2014which Dan already pointed out\u2014that MyFonts does a heck of
    a lot more to help sell fonts now than when the old 65% rate was put in place,
    back in 2003.\r\n\r\nConsider, for example, my personal employment as a full-time
    designer for the company. Before I was hired by MyFonts, they didn't have ANY
    full-time designers (and many of you would agree that the fact was painfully evident).
    I like to think that since I've started, the design level for the company has
    improved noticeably and, in turn, helps to sell more fonts.\r\n\r\nAnother huge
    factor is the new website. We started work on a completely rebuilt version of
    the site as soon as I was hired, so the version which is now up in beta mode represents
    more than 2 years of design and development time. And it isn't just re-skinning
    work; as Nick Shinn points out, the new site offers new OpenType testing functionality
    and a slew of other technical advancements (with more still in the works). Again,
    all the work we've put into (and continue to put into) the new site helps sell
    more fonts.\r\n\r\nAlso worth consideration is the increase in exposure that now
    is associated with our marketing campaigns. The MyFonts newsletters currently
    go out to more than half a million registered users (!). That beats the hell out
    of the number of people subscribed back in 2003, which was about a tenth of that.
    To add to that, we've also just started a blog which will take time and effort
    to maintain. Again, all of these things help sell more fonts.\r\n\r\nFor the foundries
    already signed up with MyFonts, we have no intention of changing their contracts.
    That is our way of thanking them for signing up in the earlier stages of the game.
    Having said that, we aren't planning on fully instituting the 50/50 contracts
    until the end of this month (so, cuttlefish, if you want to still get the 65%
    deal, get on it before April :)\r\n\r\nWe do take an equal opportunity stance
    on which fonts to sell through MyFonts. As long as the fonts are technically and
    legally sound, we let the customers decide what is worthy of buying or not. Since
    the fonts are just digital files, carrying that many more of them has little to
    no affect on our cost of operation. Anyone familiar with the \"<a href=http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Long_Tail>long
    tail</a>\" business model understands how this works.\r\n\r\nI am one of the first
    to agree that we carry some less-than-desirable fonts on our site; however, the
    way our promotion system works, anything that doesn't prove itself as desirable
    pretty quickly settles to the bottom of the barrel, and the more successful stuff
    bubbles to the top.\r\n\r\nAnyhow, to summarize, MyFonts is a totally different
    product/service now than it was back in 2003, and that change is the result of
    a lot of work and building over time. Considering all the new benefits that we
    now offer, we're still more than confident that the 50/50 agreement is a great
    deal for people looking to promote and sell their fonts."
  created: '2009-03-18 00:42:21'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Thanks for the explanation, Nick.
  created: '2009-03-18 00:45:25'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Thanks Nick. \r\n\r\nIs leaving out the history 1999 to 2003 intentional? "
  created: '2009-03-18 00:50:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "@Nick,\r\n\"(so, cuttlefish, if you want to still get the 65% deal, get on
    it before April \"\r\n\r\nSince you offer Cuttlefish the 65% deal, I assume I
    too can qualify prior to April? If so, send me the 65% contract and I will sign
    it tomorrow.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-18 00:55:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick,\r\nis it possible to sign a contract but not immediately offer any
    fonts for sale?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-18 01:08:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Sherman
    picture: 112002
  body: "sii, I made comparisons to 2003 specifically because that was the year the
    65% rate went in to effect. Prior to that it was an even higher 80%.\r\n\r\nChris.
    indeed the 65% deal would apply to you and anyone else interested (I, for one,
    would be glad to have you!). Anyone who wants the 65% contract should just send
    an email to foundry@myfonts.com saying so before the end of the month."
  created: '2009-03-18 01:10:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Sherman
    picture: 112002
  body: 'Hrant: yes, you (and anyone else) could sign the contract now even if you
    don''t offer the fonts immediately. '
  created: '2009-03-18 01:13:33'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Nick started working for MyFonts three years ago, so I guess he left out
    the pre-2003 history simply because he was ancient history for him. So let me
    join in an fill in some gaps. \r\n\r\nMyFonts was in fact my first professional
    involvement in the font industry \u2014 I was hired as part-time typographic consultant
    in mid-2000, some nine or so months after the site was launched. And I've been
    part of the team ever since. I never worked for MyFonts full-time but instead,
    I was involved in a number of projects with the large and small vendors in the
    industry, and in 2005, I started working half-time as FontLab's product and marketing
    manager. I hope that this allowed me to develop a reasonable understanding of
    all the aspects of the entire font industry. \r\n\r\nWhen MyFonts was set up ten
    years ago, the surrounding reality was that lots of promotion and advertising
    was done through print: printed catalogs and specimens, printed ads in magazines
    etc. MyFonts didn't offer that. In a sense, MyFonts offered little more than a
    convenient way to <em> just sell fonts online</em>: let the user select the font,
    collect the payment and forward the money to the foundry. Back then, there was
    no PayPal or Google Checkout so setting up an electronic shopping cart and accepting
    online payments was a challenge \u2014 so MyFonts was a fast, accessible and powerful
    platform that offered foundries an online shopping cart for their fonts.\r\n\r\nGradually,
    both MyFonts and the market evolved. Today, it is no longer sufficient to have
    an online \"presence\", it's necessary to put up some competition efforts in the
    online world. Having just a <em>sales platform</em> is no longer sufficient, we
    need an effective platform for <em>both sales and promotion</em>. \r\n\r\nTen
    years ago, it was not a good idea for MyFonts to do extensive promotion using
    the print channel, because good print promotion is highly individual. Everything
    \u2014 from the design through the choice of paper, colors and printing process
    \u2014 should be done with extensive creative influence from the foundry and from
    the designers. So it is the foundries rather than the distributors who presumably
    will always do a better job at print promotion \u2014 therefore, it was logical
    that MyFonts consciously did not get involved in that, and offered a higher\r\npercentage
    to the foundries. \r\n\r\nFrom 2000 to 2003, MyFonts gave 80% to the foundry and
    collected a 20% commission. It was a deal that it was unheard of in the industry,
    and it was clear from the day one for both MyFonts and the participating foundries
    that this was a sort of an \"introductory deal\". And indeed, in 2003, MyFonts
    changed the commission to 35%, which meant that 65% of the retail price went to
    the foundry. This was a realistic split that allowed MyFonts to cover the operational
    and development cost, and left some moderate means for some promotional activities
    \u2014 and it was still the best deal in the industry. \r\n\r\nTen years from
    MyFonts' inception, things have changed.\r\n\r\nWith \"Web 2.0\", the role of
    the internet has changed. More and more users can be effectively reached through
    various online promotional channels such as online ads, blogs or social networks.
    The visual fidelity of the online media has vastly improved, reducing the gap
    between online and print. Very few will remember that five years ago, the MyFonts
    newsletters (and most other e-mail newsletters) were plain-text-only, without
    any images or an actual layout! \r\n\r\nBut unlike print promotion, the online
    channels benefits much more from a solid technological background and the online-specialized
    know-how that a foundry might not necessarily have, but an online distributor
    should. For example, MyFonts does not host the website on one server but on a
    few dozens (!) separate machines connected by sophisticated load-balancing systems,
    so the website runs fast despite the heavy traffic, and the risk of the service
    not being available is minimal. \r\n\r\nAs MyFonts is well-rooted in font technology,
    things like online previewing of OpenType Layout features are not only possible
    but are also fast and reliable. \r\n\r\nLarger websites are more discoverable
    through search engines \u2014 just think of how much more likely is it to find
    the entry for a book at Amazon than it is on its publisher's website.\r\n\r\nThanks
    to sophisticated statistics, an online distributor such as MyFonts can detect
    trends, effectively position ads in search engines (larger clients can negotiate
    better rates when buying ads), and use various online communication channels to
    do good promotion in a more cost-effective way than an individual, small foundry.
    So at least it is not unreasonable to assume that the online distributor will
    spend the extra money well. \r\n\r\nJames writes: <em>I think MyFonts \u201Ctake
    all comers\u201D approach may have finally caught up with them, and they are lowering
    their royalty payments due to the expense of carrying all of that \u201Cdead wood\u201D.</em>
    I think that James will be glad and relieved to hear that there is little, if
    any, expense of \u201Ccarrying the dead wood.\u201D With the highly automated
    infrastructure that MyFonts had, the marginal cost of adding new fonts is low,
    and the transaction cost is also independent of the overall number of products
    on sale. As Nick points out, MyFonts operates by the \u201Clong tail\u201D principle
    (also known as the \u201C80-20 rule\u201D): roughly 80% of the expense is generated
    by 20% of the products, and 20% of the expense is generated by the 80% of the
    products. Indeed, this means that cutting off all those unpopular products wouldn't
    really have much influence on the costs. \r\n\r\nAlso, it is important to point
    out that the new standard contract rate to 50% applies to new foundries. <strong>Existing
    contracts will keep the existing terms</strong> and will not be automatically
    changed to the new scheme. \r\n\r\nBecause there seem to be some foundries that
    had the intention of signing up but \"haven't gotten around to doing it\", we
    have decided that they still have the chance to sign up <strong>with the old rate
    of 65%</strong> if they contact <em>foundry@myfonts.com</em> by the end of this
    month (i.e. by March 31, 2009). So in a sense, the \u201Cearly early birds\u201D
    who have signed up with MyFonts 8\u20139 years ago were rewarded by the extraordinarily
    attractive rate of 80%, and a number of foundries that have joined so far, the
    \u201Cbefore lunch birds\u201D, have profited from the attractive 65% rate. And
    this offer is now prolonged until lunch is over :) \r\n\r\nBut \u2014 why the
    change the rate at all? James rightly points out that it is desirable if distributors
    \u201Ckeep their royalty at the current level\u201D. But one way of looking at
    this is to ask: just how much MyFonts has achieved with the unusually low commission
    rate? Rather than being just a simple click-and-buy anonymous site, the MyFonts
    website has been in constant development for the last years. \r\n\r\nWe have collected
    excellent editorial content in form of articles, blog entries, interviews and
    newsletters \u2014 originally written by Laurence Penney, and more recently, by
    Jan Middendorp, Joshua Lurie-Terrell and Nick Sherman. We plan on continuing and
    expanding these activities. Better content, better educational materials, better
    instructions and explanations to the users \u2014 this will automatically benefit
    all participating foundries. \r\n\r\nWe have developed WhatTheFont, a massively
    popular online font recognition tool \u2014 which recently has been extended by
    the addition of an iPhone version, which has remained one of AppStore\u2019s top
    10 free applications in the \u201CReference\u201D category. If you sign up with
    MyFonts and submit your fonts, they will automatically be searchable using WhatTheFont.
    \r\n\r\nWe have spent months and months tweaking the purchase process and the
    buying experience, in order to simplify the encoding and format selection and
    adjust to various licensing schemes required by the foundries. One example: after
    purchase, the customer can download the fonts as a ZIP archive or as a simple
    wizard-based installer for Mac OS X or Windows \u2014 which greatly simplifies
    the font installation process and reduces tech support calls. \r\n\r\nWe have
    invented various ways for customers to discover new fonts and quickly find the
    fonts they are looking for. We developed \u201CMore fonts like this\u201D, introduced
    tags/keywords, flags and other concepts \u2014 and we were more than happy to
    find out that other font distributors have adopted these solutions. These concepts
    are industry standards now. We have a slew of great new ideas that, I'm certain,
    will benefit font vendors and customers. \r\n\r\nWe have invested two years of
    our time to design a new website from the ground up, bringing together great design
    talent (Nick), excellent web programming skills (Chris Lewis and Kevin Woodward),
    online marketing expertise, solid linguistic, typographic and font technology
    know-how, high-quality content as well as, simply, innovation. We have been rewarded
    with very positive feedback from both foundries and customers \u2014 and we are
    constantly working on \u201Cironing out\u201D some weak spots. \r\n\r\nBut the
    work is not finished, we have great plans. The extra money that will come from
    the increased commission on new foundries will certainly help further improving
    the MyFonts online platform. With our new design and editorial content, we have
    merely indicated the direction. Design and content is not everything, so our future
    activities will concentrate on online promotion and marketing. We will do some
    of the work ourselves. But more importantly, very much in-sync with our approach
    so far, we will develop new innovative easy-to-use online tools that will help
    foundries direct the marketing activities themselves. \r\n\r\nUntil this date,
    we have done all that work at a commission rate that <em>for years was way more
    attractive than anybody other's</em>. So I believe, so far, the participating
    foundries can safely say that the money (the commission) was, indeed, well spent
    \u2014 simply because they have been enjoying steadily increasing income from
    us since MyFonts' inception. \r\n\r\nAnd that money will continue to be well spent
    \u2014 for the existing foundries whose contracts we of course honor, for the
    new foundries that manage to snatch the old commission rate if they sign up by
    the end of this month, and also for the future foundries which will not enjoy
    the \u201Cearly bird\u201D privilege, but will nonetheless benefit from all the
    innovation and effectiveness that MyFonts has to offer.  \r\n\r\nOK, everyone
    in the first row can wake up now. ;)\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-18 02:59:23'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz......
  created: '2009-03-18 03:02:37'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "twardoc-\r\n\r\nthat was extremely well-spoken...\r\nsounds like myfonts
    earns its pay.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-18 03:10:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Adam, polish that up and publish it!\r\n\r\nBTW, somewhere I have Laurence's
    original\r\nemail offering me that 80% (and not 85% as I\r\nremembered). Please
    excuse me while I kick\r\nmyself to Kinshasa.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-18 03:54:00'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'No better way to celebrate 10 years of Myfonts than to sponsor an old-school
    Bitstream (AKA Beerstream) party during ATypI '
  created: '2009-03-18 03:59:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\" polish that up and publish it!\"\r\n\r\nI think he just did :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-18 04:19:18'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Makes sense to me, guys.
  created: '2009-03-18 04:28:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Example: \"a few dozens\"\r\nI guess one man's polish is another man's tarnish.\r\n\r\nAnd
    one entry in some thread is pretty meager publishing,\r\nespecially with Typophile's
    inebriated search function.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-18 04:57:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: If you're going to publish it Adam, you could make some mention of Makambo,
    the first online font retailer.
  created: '2009-03-18 05:28:31'
- author:
    name: Renko
    picture: 111443
  body: "Thank you Adam, for the insight. But you have forgotten one powerful thing
    MyFonts has, too: A very fast and reliable Whatthefont-forum. Don\u2019t know
    how many requests are coming in, but sometimes it is 3\u20134 in the minute. Which
    will be solved in record-time. The TypeID-board here doesn\u2019t get so much
    traffic, as the forum over there. Most of the requests are solved in as high quality
    as the one here. Guarded by skillful moderators like Akira, Marcelo (=plumbago),
    Philippe2 and many more. Don\u2019t know how the Whatthefont-forum influences
    the sales over there, but I am convinced it is a quite big part of it. "
  created: '2009-03-18 08:06:10'
- author:
    name: Renko
    picture: 111443
  body: "Ah, forgot one thing: The people over there are all volunteers, like the
    one here. \r\n\r\nP.S.: And for those who don't know: The Whatthefont-forum is
    dedicated to Type Identification. "
  created: '2009-03-18 08:09:42'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "hrant said:\r\n>   a few dozens\r\n\r\ngreat catch!\r\n\r\nare there more?\r\n\r\nbecause
    i count 10300+ characters, 1700+ words, 185+ lines,\r\n70+ sentences, and 50+
    paragraphs, so if there's only 1 error,\r\nthen that's a whole lot closer to \"polished\"
    than to \"tarnished\"...\r\n\r\nin fact, if that's all there is, and we fixed
    that, we are \"finished\"...\r\n\r\nmoreover, when we get that level of cleanliness
    from an author,\r\nouttadabox, we don't call it \"polished\", we call it \"well-polished\".\r\n\r\nif
    you can find more mistakes, though, it would sway the score.\r\n(but probably
    have to find many more to end up at \"tarnished\".)\r\n\r\nanyway, i will use
    this fantastic content as the textual matter for\r\nsome more of the research
    experiments that i'll be doing here...\r\n\r\nhere are the opening paragraphs,
    our header the 2.5 alphabets\r\nwhich is typically recommended as a most desireable
    measure...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/myfonts-001_6715.png]\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\np.s.
    \ as you can see in the screenshot, i found two errors there.\r\nin the rest of
    the piece, i got another 8, so 10 total.  very clean.\r\n(not counting 15-20 times
    when we disagree on serial comma.)\r\ni'd be interested in any other edits that
    anyone has done on this.\r\nand, of course, anything that the author might want
    to rewrite...        ;+)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-18 08:36:04'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "in looking at that screenshot, we've got a nice rag there.\r\nindeed, the
    only lines i would change would be to move\r\ndown that lonely \"a\" at the end
    of the next-to-last line\r\nin the second paragraph, then do the same for that
    \"for\"\r\nat the end of the next-to-last line of the third paragraph.\r\n\r\nmoving
    further analysis of this to an appropriate thread;\r\nthanks for your understanding
    during this short side-trip.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-18 08:47:40'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "MyFonts has a selection of Arabic fonts, and the neat OT display shows the
    text you type in any number of sizes using a slider, and various colors. Unfortunately
    the text is displayed from left to right, inverting the natural order of the letters.
    In this image the test text (the name of the font \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0633\u062A\u0642\u0628\u0644
    \u0644\u0646\u0627 shown correctly in green) is displayed back to front in the
    orange, which of course disconnects the letters as well as makes the text unreadable.
    I wonder if this can be corrected? Thanks Adam![img:sites/default/files/old-images/myfontsarabic_4059.jpg]"
  created: '2009-03-18 09:27:59'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Vladimir: \r\n\r\nWe have recently made good progress in correct OpenType
    rendering of complex script fonts such as Arabic, and you should be seeing this
    live on MyFonts anytime soon. \r\n\r\nOthers: \r\n\r\nThank you for your warm
    reception of my somewhat unorganized notes. I have read your feedback and will
    publish an edited version of the text soon :) \r\n\r\nHrant: \r\n\r\nI would just
    say that one man\u2019s polish is another man\u2019s Polish. ;) Your feedback
    also noted, thanks! \r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nAdam"
  created: '2009-03-18 09:33:11'
- author:
    name: barkeep
    picture: 111198
  body: "@Dezcom\r\n\"What products?\r\n\r\nChrisL\"\r\n\r\nToys, furniture, ceramics
    and paintings"
  created: '2009-03-18 10:30:13'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Adam, now that you are here, is OTF class kerning working OK at this time
    in the beta MyFonts samples?
  created: '2009-03-18 11:48:11'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Jan, \r\n\r\ncurrently no GPOS features are working (including kerning) but
    the new update for the OpenType engine will fix both GPOS problems as well as
    complex-script rendering problems (and a number of other smaller problems). \r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nAdam"
  created: '2009-03-18 12:12:17'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Thanks, Adam.
  created: '2009-03-18 12:32:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> that\u2019s a whole lot closer to \u201Cpolished\u201D than to \u201Ctarnished\u201D...\r\n\r\nAgreed.\r\n\r\n>
    we don\u2019t call it \u201Cpolished\u201D, we call it \u201Cwell-polished\u201D.\r\n\r\nTry
    making a text font.\r\n\r\n> one man\u2019s polish is another man\u2019s Polish.\r\n\r\nAh
    - I should have used that myself!  :->\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nPreviously:\r\n> I think
    they do take all comers who can make\r\n> a working product and who are not pirates.\r\n\r\nBut
    there are clear cases of plagiarism. Yesterday I saw what was basically Industria
    with parts randomly chopped off the bottoms*, and I've seen that sort of thing
    many times on MyFonts.\r\n\r\n* BTW now I can't find it again, and that might
    in fact be a reflection of what James was saying in terms of crowding.\r\n\r\nAre
    there legal issues with rejecting that sort of thing? Can't you just say \"we
    reserve the right to refuse service\" or something? Because you really should
    block those, especially since you do have good ID hounds on your roll.\r\n\r\nThis
    is basically the one thing that persists in bugging me about MyFonts.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-18 14:27:37'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> The other day I saw what was basically Industria \r\n> with parts randomly
    chopped off the bottoms.\r\n> Can\u2019t you just say \u201Cwe reserve the right
    to refuse \r\n> service\u201D or something? Because you really should \r\n> block
    those, especially since you do have good ID \r\n> hounds on your roll.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not sure what you mean by we \"do good ID hounds on your roll\". If you refer
    to the WhatTheFont forum, all users there are volunteers, so they're not \"on
    MyFonts' roll\". \r\n\r\nBut we certainly have the right to remove fonts that
    infringe on people's intellectual property, and we rigorously make use of this
    right \u2014 if we are notified by the rights owners *or* by any users. I would
    really like to encourage users to report such things directly to MyFonts.\r\n\r\nIt's
    like with bugs in software applications: many users assume that the ominous \"they\"
    will \"take care of it\". And then bugs get propagated from version to version
    because, as it happens, nobody reports those (as everyone assumes that someone
    else will have done so). \r\n\r\nSeriously. We have removed offending fonts in
    the past, and will in future. I have myself reviewed the outlines of such fonts
    and compared them in order to determine if portions of the outlines have been
    reused of if a font is an independent digitization of the same design. Unfortunately,
    some shady doers simply go undetected for some time. On the other hand, fortunately,
    such cases occur rarely. \r\n\r\nQuite a few fonts submitted to MyFonts are poor
    designs \u2014 but that is another issue. With MyFonts being a <a target=\"_blank\"
    href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meritocracy\"><em>meritocracy</em></a>, we
    believe that it will be our users who will ultimately judge on whether a font
    becomes commercially successful or not. Many of the poor designs never will. To
    some surprise of traditionalists such as myself, some fonts that are do not meet
    our \xE6sthetic standards still find a large number of followers. But that is,
    again, a completely different discussion: should any appointed panel of judges
    serve as the authority that denies the right of existence to the Comic Sanses
    of this world? \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-18 14:29:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\" To some surprise of traditionalists such as myself, some fonts that are
    do not meet our \xE6sthetic standards still find a large number of followers.
    But that is, again, a completely different discussion: should any appointed panel
    of judges serve as the authority that denies the right of existence to the Comic
    Sanses of this world?\"\r\n\r\nThis is no surprise to me and goes along with my
    earlier comment.\r\n\r\nI prefer your \"Let the buyer Choose\" method over a panel
    of judges--and the cost of the panel.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-18 14:58:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> all users there are volunteers, so they\u2019re not \u201Con MyFonts\u2019
    roll\u201D.\r\n\r\nCould you pay some of them a stipend to screen all incoming
    fonts? Not for design quality, but simply for plagiarism. That sort of thing would
    add even more value to MyFonts (most of all for scrupulous font designers). You
    might even pay for them to [gradually] go through all the fonts you already have.
    This isn't as time-consuming as it might sound, because a good hound can very
    quickly get a vibe with a quick glance at a pangram; then the potential offender
    would be moved to \"level 2\" for closer inspection.\r\n\r\n> I would really like
    to encourage users to\r\n> report such things directly to MyFonts.\r\n\r\nCool.\r\nAssuming
    there isn't one already, it would be nice to have an official channel to go through
    specifically for this, and announce its availability on various fora.\r\n\r\n>
    With MyFonts being a meritocracy, we believe that it will be\r\n> our users who
    will ultimately judge on whether a font becomes\r\n> commercially successful or
    not\r\n\r\nTo me that's the only solid way for MyFonts to work.\r\n\r\nBTW, do
    search results depend on popularity?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-18 16:30:49'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: ">>Could you pay some of them a stipend to screen all incoming fonts?\r\n\r\nAnd
    thus pass along the costs to the designer, further decreasing the percentages
    paid out per font."
  created: '2009-03-18 16:44:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "And/Or:\r\nYou could have a [hidden] \"plagiarism tally\" for each font,
    where foundries that have signed up with MyFonts can add a \"black mark\" for
    a given offensive font. And maybe more than 2 black marks automatically brings
    it to the attention of somebody who can follow up and possibly remove the font.
    In this way you would have those with the most interest in reducing plagiarism
    do most of the work for you. More: if you deem the font inoffensive you would
    remove the black marks, and prevent those who put them from putting them again
    - but of course more people can put enough black marks again (although you might
    have raised the threshold to 4 at that point) possibly causing you to reconsider.
    Even more: you might alert the recipient of black marks, as a feedback mechanism
    to guide future development.\r\n\r\n> And thus pass along the costs to the designer,
    further\r\n> decreasing the percentages paid out per font.\r\n\r\nBut the designer
    might see it as <em>added value</em>, just like marketing costs.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-18 16:48:31'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Hrant, \r\n\r\n> BTW, do search results depend on popularity?\r\n\r\nThe
    first two sorting modes for search results (relevance and best selling) take popularity
    into account. Best selling is a straight popularity sort while relevance combines
    popularity with other factors (for example if a designer name is used as the search
    term, the fonts designed by that designer score higher than those for which the
    designer's name is only mentioned in the accompanying article). \r\n\r\nWe'll
    take your suggestions into consideration! \r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nAdam"
  created: '2009-03-18 17:01:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Sherman
    picture: 112002
  body: "Hrant, I greatly appreciate your thought and consideration!\r\n\r\nIn a sense,
    we do have a team of people checking all incoming fonts for plagiarism (and then
    some). Other than running new submissions through WhatTheFont, there are at least
    3 of us that watch the new font RSS feed. As no one is perfect (and plagiarists
    can be sneaky), every once in a great while things do slip through the cracks.
    But so far the method has worked well enough that developing a whole new system
    for reporting issues would probably take away from time that could be better spent
    helping our foundries to make money in other ways.\r\n\r\nLike Adam said though,
    if we get notification of a sketchy font from an outside source\u2014be it from
    a foundry or from a random user\u2014we'll take the font down until we've had
    a chance to investigate and proceed accordingly. In that sense, using the \"black
    mark\" system for comparison, we take down anything that's received even one black
    mark.\r\n\r\nWith that in mind, I'll repeat Adam by encouraging anyone to report
    to us anything they see that they think infringes on others' intellectual property.
    A quick email is all that's needed :)"
  created: '2009-03-18 17:50:50'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: ">>running new submissions through WhatTheFont\r\nIngenious! I didn't even
    think of that. What a great idea.\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-18 17:50:54'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "50% ?! Wow, what a scam. \r\n\r\nSeriously, coming from the software development
    side I just can't wrap my mind around this number. Even if it's 65%. Jesus. I
    hope they at least provide the Vaseline for free."
  created: '2009-03-18 19:45:18'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> 50% ?! Wow, what a scam.\r\n\r\nI dunno. Write a book. You will be lucky
    to get 15% of retail for hardcover, 10% for paperback.\r\n\r\nA normal bookstore
    gets 40% on most books. A distributor gets 5 to 10% more. So a place like Amazon,
    the bookstore equivalent of myfonts, is probably getting 50% for selling the thing.\r\n\r\nI
    know that jewellery often is marked up 50% (doubled from wholesale price) as are
    occasional other items. Some novelties are more than double the price you pay
    in a variety store.\r\n\r\nWhat does an artist get if his work is sold in an art
    dealer?\r\n\r\nIt's called retailing ... the guy who sells the stuff deserves
    to make a living too.\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-18 20:04:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Don, The cost of printing, storage, and distribution  of books is WAY more
    than hosting a small file to download.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-18 20:17:35'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "Don, these are irrelevant examples. \r\n\r\nThe costs that are typical to
    a physical goods distribution are just simply not there when it comes to the virtual
    goods. Think about it. No stocking, no transporting, no disposal of outdated items,
    no huge upfront costs for maintaining an inventory, no need for the hoards of
    sales people, running costs are WAY lower than maintaining, say, a mall outlet,
    etc.\r\n\r\nThe cost structure is different. The 30% Apple charges for their App
    Store sales is unheard of, but it is somewhat justified by the awesomeness of
    Apple's brand. And when they initially announced 30%, a lot of jaws dropped. \r\n\r\nT-h-i-r-t-y
    p-e-r-c-e-n-t for an option of selling under the umbrella of THE brand. And you
    telling me that 50% fee is justified in an online font retailer case ? Give me
    a break."
  created: '2009-03-18 20:20:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Alex, markets sort themselves out.\r\nWhatever the market pays is justified,
    fair or not.\r\nFor fonts, the price the end-user pays, the retailer fee, the
    publisher fee, and the designer royalty are all related, and have evolved through
    several generations of digital commerce. No doubt shrinkage (i.e. bundling, piracy
    and free fonts) fits into the equation too.\r\n\r\nIf distributors kept 75%, the
    font market would be quite different.\r\n\r\nThe MyFonts business model has certainly
    been successful for that company, and has been the driving force in creating a
    retail font market with hundreds of independent foundries worldwide; and done
    it by paying suppliers considerably more than App Store, with a really wack branding
    to boot. "
  created: '2009-03-18 21:35:14'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: You lost me there at the end, Nick. How's 50% that MyFonts pays is "considerably
    more" than Apple's 70% (which in itself is <em>atypically low</em> for the software
    market) ?
  created: '2009-03-18 22:06:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Sorry, I got it backwards. \r\nSo you're suggesting that font distributors
    should charge 25%?\r\nI like that!"
  created: '2009-03-18 22:29:30'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: If you join the affiliate program you could actually make 75% on some sales
    (if you have the 65% now of course).
  created: '2009-03-18 22:37:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Please explain the Affiliate Program, Jos?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-18 22:50:04'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: 'Here''s the info: http://new.myfonts.com/info/affiliate-program/'
  created: '2009-03-18 23:03:36'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "whining about this is so unproductive.\r\n\r\nif you think you can do the
    same job\r\nfor a smaller fee, go ahead and do it!\r\n\r\nif you really can, people
    will choose you.\r\n\r\nnobody says you have to use myfonts...\r\n\r\nyou can
    sell your fonts on your own site,\r\nwhere you'll keep 100% of the proceeds...\r\n\r\nchances
    are, though, that another dealer\r\n-- whether myfonts or someone else --\r\nwill
    bring you new customers, and _that_\r\nis what you are paying them their fee for.\r\n\r\nall
    the other stuff that they might do --\r\nlike storage and bandwidth, and collecting\r\nthe
    money -- is the frosting on the cake.\r\n(and believe me, collecting the money
    is a\r\npain in the ass, especially internationally.)\r\nthe cake? it's new customer
    development.\r\n\r\nit costs a lot -- time, money, energy --\r\nto bring customers
    into the tent, and if\r\nsomeone else can do that for you, great!\r\n\r\nespecially
    since once you get a customer,\r\nyou can convince them to come to _your_\r\ntent,
    where you can keep the full 100%...\r\n\r\n(and then you'll see that it's not
    _really_\r\n100%, because all of those other things\r\ncost you money, and time,
    and energy.)\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nas a reference point, authors can upload\r\na book
    directly to amazon for the kindle.\r\nthey keep 65% of the \"suggested list price\".\r\n\r\nand
    yes sir, that's a very high commission,\r\nespecially for handling a _digital_
    product.\r\n(no warehouses, no transportation costs.)\r\n\r\nbut what's more important
    is that amazon\r\ndelivers you a ton of customers and _you_\r\nget to keep 35%
    of the suggested list price.\r\n\r\nand you gain a lot of fans in the process...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\np.s.
    \ same thing with the 30% apple retains\r\nfor apps sold in their app store.   worth
    it!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-18 23:06:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks, Jos!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-18 23:11:36'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Now it's a Bird in Cat's Clothing. Cannot be plucked.
  created: '2009-03-18 23:17:03'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: You're welcome, Chris. Every little swan counts ;)
  created: '2009-03-18 23:30:41'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>(and believe me, collecting the money is a\r\npain in the ass, especially
    internationally.)</cite>\r\n\r\nOh stop it! \r\n\r\nHave you ever heard of credit
    cards, payment gateways? 50% of my sales come from outside the US and I have never
    had a problem getting paid with a customer using a credit card.\r\n\r\nI have
    more of a problem buying things from international sellers since they seem to
    have an aversion to using credit cards, and insist on bank transfers which cost
    way too much.\r\n\r\nAnd just forget about Paypal, that bunch of crooks."
  created: '2009-03-19 02:07:40'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Alex, \r\n\r\nI'm completely with you on the wish that the type designers
    should receive the best possible financial conditions. Having worked with hundreds
    of professional type designers over the last ten years \u2014 be it in my FontLab
    or MyFonts positions, or as an independent consultant \u2014 I know very well
    how challenging it is to make a living on type design. \r\n\r\nHowever, I cannot
    agree with the use of the word \"scam\". I think there is a fundamental difference
    between general software distribution models and fonts. First of all, software
    applications are relatively short-lived as they are. One committed and successful
    type designer designs numerous, sometimes dozens, families \u2014 overall, dozens
    or even hundreds of fonts,  over the path of their career. But do you know any
    individual software developer who has developed dozens or hundreds of software
    applications? No, this does not work that way. \r\n\r\nSoftware applications need
    constant maintenance, one and the same software application needs to be constantly
    updated with bugfixes or adjusted to new operating systems, new features need
    to be added. Otherwise, the software product will \"die of natural causes\" after
    two or three years. The higher \"royalty\" that may flow back to the developer
    is not really pure royalty \u2014 a significant part of that is simply money that
    goes into maintenance and continued development of the same product, in order
    to keep it afloat. In the software application business, it is the software developer
    who is mostly concerned with the maintenance of the product \u2014 while the distributors
    \"merely sell it\". More often than not, it is also the software developer whose
    task it is to promote the software, while the distributor \u2014 at least those
    distributors who take low commissions \u2014 basically provide an e-commerce platform,
    take transactions and process orders. And in such case, a typical commission is,
    indeed, between 20% and 30%. \r\n\r\nThe money a type designer, or a foundry,
    receives, is much more of a pure royalty. Once the designer has completed a font
    family, it is \"final\". Of course, not entirely, because there may be cases where
    an update is needed. Some are fairly minor, such as adding the Euro character
    or converting into a different format. Some are more extensive, such as expanding
    the character set. But I don't think there really are many cases when the same
    font family needs to be updated and revisited every year or two, \"forever\".
    \r\n\r\nI hope it's clear that I'm not trying to downplay the type designer's
    role \u2014 I'm merely indicating that the product lifecycles for those product
    types are inherently different. After having worked both in font development and
    distribution as well as in software development and distribution (for FontLab),
    I think I can safely say that _after_ a product is released, one needs to spend
    FAR more time to maintain it in the software business than in the font business.
    \r\n\r\nOf course, both the software developers and type designers can use their
    royalties to fund the development of new products \u2014 but they can also choose
    not to make any new products and undertake other things. Fortunately enough, if
    a font family proves to be interesting to the market, the royalties WILL continue
    to flow in a year's time, in two years, three and further. Some of the seasoned
    type designers have been receiving royalties for font families that they have
    designed ten or fifteen years ago, without ever having revisited that particular
    family \u2014 which I believe is hardly possible in the software application business.
    \r\n\r\nAs I've written above, MyFonts started as a \"mere e-commerce provider\"
    for type designers, and for that it rightly accepted a 20% commission. But, while
    the type designer can \"sit back and relax\", or \u2014 much more likely :) \u2014
    spend his or her time designing new typefaces, it is much more up to the distributor
    to constantly \"remain in the game\" and make sure that potential customers get
    the fonts they need. Every online font distributor needs to heavily invest in
    the online platform, fix bugs, adopt the platform to new browsers and operating
    systems, add new features, come up with innovative ways to present the typeface
    catalog and allow customers to find the font they want as quickly as possible
    \u2014 and perhaps convince the customer to buy a few more fonts than they originally
    intended ;) \r\n\r\nDoes this sound familiar? Yes, in fact, in the font market,
    it is the font distributors that need to do lots of the very same heavy-lifting
    that the original software developers, and not the software distributors, do in
    the software application market. \r\n\r\nIn order to remain fresh and attractive,
    it is very important for the font distributors to take care of the whole maintenance
    process. In other words, part of what the software vendors do for software needs
    to be done by the distributors for fonts. \r\n\r\nAnd this is the reason why I
    believe it is sensible that a comparably larger part of the money stays with the
    font distributor \u2014 namely the expenses that go into maintenance and upgrading
    the software. When it comes to what should count as actual royalty, I don't think
    there are many differences. \r\n\r\nAnd as I said earlier, we at MyFonts have
    serious plans to make our platform even much better than it is now. With the redesign
    and the new newsletters, I think we've indicated the direction, and I think the
    participating foundries like it where we are heading. \r\n\r\nOr have you seen
    an online software distributor that has developed a system that allows the user
    to \"testdrive\" the software applications online before purchase? If there are
    such vendors, I doubt they charge just a 20% commission. \r\n\r\nOh, wait. :)
    Actually, I really wish such an online testdrive platform existed in the Apple
    AppStore. This would certainly have spared me the purchase of a couple of iPhone
    apps that had promised but did not deliver, so the only option I had was to grind
    my teeth, delete the app and forget about the money (since AppStore does not accept
    returns). \r\n\r\nSure, some developers may be thrilled with the \"opportunity
    to sell your iPhone apps under the Apple brand\" (not that there is any other
    option, because the Apple AppStore is the ONLY option to sell iPhone apps, when
    you forget about illegal hacking). \r\n\r\nBut I'm rather confident that for the
    end-user (and, ultimately, the vendor), MyFonts or FontShop offer a much better
    discovery and shopping experience than the AppStore. (Have you ever tried to print
    out your purchase history at AppStore? I have. I had to take 20 screenshots as
    this was the only option). \r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-19 02:36:09'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "<em>We have recently made good progress in correct OpenType rendering of
    complex script fonts such as Arabic, and you should be seeing this live on MyFonts
    anytime soon.</em>\r\nAdam: Sounds good!"
  created: '2009-03-19 02:52:35'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "Adam,\r\n\r\n> However, I cannot agree with the use of the word \u201Cscam\u201D.\r\n\r\nI'll
    take \"scam\" back. It's indeed more of a rip-off if I were to use a catchy description.\r\n\r\n><em>
    More often than not, it is also the software developer whose task it is to promote
    the software, while the distributor \u2014 at least those distributors who take
    low commissions \u2014 basically provide an e-commerce platform, take transactions
    and process orders. And in such case, a typical commission is, indeed, between
    20% and 30%.</em>\r\n\r\n[[http://regnow.com/software_publisher2.html#06|Here]]
    is the pricing for a well-establish ecomm provider - 6.9% + $1 - and this is considered
    \"really-pushing-it\" expensive.\r\n\r\n20% in the software world buys you not
    just the payment processing services (shopping cart, invoicing and what not),
    but also the promotion support, the retail packaging when needed <em>as well as</em>
    the frontline technical support. Latter is a really big deal because it's an actual
    expense that grows with the sales volume.\r\n\r\n><em>The money a type designer,
    or a foundry, receives, is much more of a pure royalty.</em> \r\n\r\nI don't see
    how this justifies paying the font designers less.\r\n\r\nAnd I'm sorry I don't
    buy the argument about the huge expenses you are routinely encountering while
    \"fixing bugs, adopting the platform to new browsers and operating systems, adding
    new features, coming up with innovative ways to present the typeface catalog,
    etc\". If this does in fact force you to drop royalties from 80% to 50%, then
    it means you are not doing a good job in controlling your operational expenses
    or these expenses are not applied most effeciently.\r\n\r\n><em>Or have you seen
    an online software distributor that has developed a system that allows the user
    to \u201Ctestdrive\u201D the software applications online before purchase?</em>\r\n\r\nYou
    and I both know that an online \"testdrive\" of a downloadable application is
    an oxymoron. Please don't compare apples to oranges.\r\n\r\nHowever, adding an
    option of \"testdriving\" a typeface to a website, even the one that works in
    an interactive manner, is few man-months worth of work for any professional developer.
    It is also essentially a one-time expense if it's designed properly. \r\n\r\nIf
    you are to tell me that you need more than that, then you are living a luxurious
    development life <em>at an expense of your fellow font developers</em>. The fact
    that you <em>can</em> hire a dozen developers to write a Flash applet, another
    10 to add an Ajax support, and few managers to manage them all doesn't mean that
    it should be done. \r\n\r\nAll in all, I'm still in awe over the commission rates.
    That's just unbelievable. It really makes me wonder if an expense-conscious font
    distribution start-up would be worth a shot."
  created: '2009-03-19 04:49:10'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: "@epsilicon,\r\n\r\nNot to put too fine a point on it, but if you don't need
    Nick's, my & Jan's endless, tireless work on behalf of MyFonts designers - each
    of us spends a fair amount of time ever single day writing copy, editing press
    releases, conducting interviews, designing specimens for all of our designers
    ... well, then go with a distributor who doesn't do those things for you. MyFonts
    may begin to decrease commissions, but we are increasing the level of service
    - and the truly massive amount of PR we give to our designers - every single day.\r\n\r\nAnd
    that's not all of it. There are a several other people who work endlessly - weekends,
    holidays, Jewish holidays and on our kids' birthdays - to make sure that those
    regular newsletters and other mailings actually get to the tens of thousands of
    people who want to see them. We all answer emails, field criticism - always addressing
    whatever we can - and do everything we can to make sure that our designers are
    getting their due.\r\n\r\nWe're doing this because we feel that all independent
    designers deserve at least a shot at the kind of massive PR that large corporate
    foundries give their new releases. In fact, I think if you look closely you'll
    find that we are giving far more targeted press to the folks who sign with us
    than ITC or Linotype or Agfa are offering their designers.\r\n\r\nI am very proud
    to work with these folks and very happy that we're able to offer such a complete
    service. While I have heard a little bit of criticism from some folks, I don't
    recall ever hearing any from designers who are actually selling their fonts via
    MyFonts."
  created: '2009-03-19 05:04:42'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "I am one of those and I like MyFonts approach best: submit a font for sale
    and let the punters decide whether it was worth it.\r\n\r\nAll these comments
    about quality on MyFonts miss a major point: MyFonts is all inclusive and non-judgemental.
    Please name one distributor here who takes all comers and charges less than 50%
    commission?\r\n\r\nAnd for all the folks being disappointed with the change, now
    that you have been offered the 65-35 split, what are you still doing here carping,
    instead of signing on and designing some fonts?"
  created: '2009-03-19 05:37:57'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "@jlt,\r\n\r\nI am sure you are putting a lot of hours into MyFonts, and nowhere
    I meant to imply you are not taking your job seriously or anything like that.
    But as I have already said the 50% is an <em>outrageous</em> number from where
    I come from. Publishing services in a software domain routinely operate on substantially
    smaller commissions. \r\n\r\nI just called a friend of mine who is in the shareware
    publishing business. He said 7% for a simple e-comm, 30% for \"give it to us and
    forget\" kind of service, which includes (re-)branding, positioning, promotion,
    sales and support.\r\n\r\nDetails of the software publishing are of course different
    from the font distribution, but there's a very large overlap between their general
    problems, expense structure and operating principles. That's why I feel the comparison
    was justified to begin with.\r\n\r\nAlex\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-19 06:08:12'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I don't think you can compare apples to oranges.
  created: '2009-03-19 06:08:46'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Alex, I can understand why software publishing seems comparable, but until
    you've built a website that renders hundreds of thousands of fonts in a large
    range of formats (some ancient) from hundreds of manufacturers, each with varying
    technical standards, methods, prices, package download options, and meta data,
    and then organize and display them all in a way that's usable to a wide range
    of customers, both expert and novice, and then support those fonts as they interact
    with dozens of operating systems and countless applications, you really can't
    have any idea what you're talking about here. \r\n\r\nTrust me, I once assumed
    operating in this market was like any other e-commerce business. Experience has
    taught me otherwise."
  created: '2009-03-19 06:19:09'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "terminaldesign said:\r\n>   Have you ever heard of credit cards, payment
    gateways?\r\n\r\nyes, but i don't know of any that do the job for free.\r\n\r\ndo
    you?\r\n\r\nand no, heaven's no, i've never _ever_ heard _any_\r\nhorror stories
    about the _credit_card_ companies,\r\nthey are exemplars of wonderful vendor relations.\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  I have never had a problem getting paid \r\n>   with a customer using a credit
    card.\r\n\r\nok, and how do you get paid from the\r\ncustomers who don't use a
    credit card?\r\n\r\nwhat, you just give up those sales?  ok...\r\n\r\nbut if you
    _did_ want to actually accept them,\r\nyou'd be stuck with the bank-transfer thing,\r\nwhich
    is a pain in the ass, and costly as well.\r\n\r\nand if you don't take those customers,
    then\r\nhow do you know how much money you are\r\nlosing, directly in the present,
    and long-term\r\nin the future because you failed the sale today,\r\nmeaning you
    didn't cumulate the new customer,\r\nthereby losing that customer's word-of-mouth,\r\nwhich
    could have brought in _other_ clients, etc.\r\n\r\nyou sound pretty haughty for
    someone who has\r\nso little information about the fish under the sea.\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  I have more of a problem buying things from \r\n>   international sellers since
    they seem to have \r\n>   an aversion to using credit cards, and insist \r\n>
    \  on bank transfers which cost way too much.\r\n\r\nyet another example, from
    the customer side,\r\nof how the payment process is a pain in the ass,\r\nboth
    in the execution and in the transaction cost.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   And just forget about
    Paypal, that bunch of crooks.\r\n\r\nit sounds like you've had an experience that
    _some_\r\nmight characterize as having been \"a pain in the ass\",\r\none that
    likely cost you time, energy, and/or money.\r\n\r\nso, you made this post in an
    attempt to refute mine,\r\nbut nearly everything you said actually supports me.\r\nmaybe
    you should engage your brain before typing...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-19 06:23:37'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "Stephen, at some point I built an online service that accumulated few million
    users before it was acquired by a larger company. So I have a <em>very</em> good
    understanding of what it takes to build very complex scalable systems and to deal
    with supporting a wide variety of end-user environments. It is effectively what
    I do for a living. Just an FYI.\r\n\r\nI was not however aware that MyFonts takes
    responsibility for resolving application compatibility issues with the fonts they
    sell.\r\n\r\nAlex"
  created: '2009-03-19 06:37:57'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "i said:\r\n>   maybe you should engage your brain before typing...\r\n\r\ni
    have been instructed that this was impolite.\r\n\r\ni apologize.\r\n\r\ni meant
    it simply as \"good advice\" --\r\ni always try to think before i type,\r\nand
    i'm often glad that i did that --\r\nbut i surely didn't mean to offend...\r\n\r\ni
    ask everyone to please accept my deep regrets.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-19 07:17:27'
- author:
    name: Mike F
    picture: 109911
  body: "Hrant - As one of the original WTF moderators I can definitely say that you
    overstate the frequency of plagiaristic fonts appearing on MyFonts.\r\n\r\nPrior
    to being asked to become a moderator (on the roll? ,,, I wish!), I reported a
    couple of cases of clear font cloning. MyFonts responded promptly with a thank
    you and the offenders were kicked out.\r\n\r\nAs a group of moderators, we have
    been known to jump all over an illicit clone that shows up. We don't see them
    very often, though.\r\n\r\nAs to that font that \"... was basically Industria
    with parts randomly chopped off the bottoms.\", ever since the appearance of Industria
    there have been lots of freebie and some commercial similars available. A key
    word in what you wrote is 'basically'. Unless a font IS Industria with parts lopped
    off it may be ethically and typographically undesirable but it's not legally wrong
    or, I suspect, from MyFonts view - actionable.\r\n\r\nEdit: I missed that there
    was a page 2 to this popular thread, so please excuse the even-tardier-than-I-thought
    post to you, Hrant."
  created: '2009-03-19 07:52:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"now that you have been offered the 65-35 split, what are you still doing
    here carping, instead of signing on and designing some fonts?\"\r\n\r\nI signed
    and mailed my contract yesterday and will soon have fonts released by MyFonts.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-19 14:45:07'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "<cite>...will soon have fonts released...</cite>\r\n\r\nGreat!"
  created: '2009-03-19 15:02:28'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I don\u2019t think you can compare apples to oranges.\r\n\r\nTotally agree.
    Alex has chosen a seemingly random example, software, to make his point. If he\u2019d
    chosen say prostitution where the pimp routinely keeps 110% of the prostitutes
    earnings, then the deal the MyFonts is offering looks great.\r\n\r\nAlso it\u2019s
    possible for type designers to keep close to 100% of the money by selling fonts
    directly. That\u2019s not too hard to set up. However they choose to license their
    IP through distributors like MyFonts. They may grumble about the royalty rates,
    but if MyFonts wasn't putting additional cash in their pockets then they wouldn\u2019t
    sign up.   \r\n"
  created: '2009-03-19 15:07:41'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Fellow Typophiles, \r\n\r\nI have \u201Cpolished up\u201D my initial posting,
    and published it on the <a target=\"_blank\" href=\"http://blog.myfonts.com/545\"><strong>MyFonts
    blog</strong></a>. \r\n\r\nThank you for your valuable input so far! \r\nAdam"
  created: '2009-03-19 15:19:40'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>i ask everyone to please accept my deep regrets.</cite>\r\n\r\nI don't"
  created: '2009-03-19 16:01:26'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "What James (terminaldesign) said: Race to the bottom? Indeed race to the
    bottom.  BT needs more money -- and that's ok! The fourth quarter is down -- $0.07
    per share; last year -- $0.11;  the big numbers: something around $1.15 milion
    last year, and  only 700,000 this quarter.  And with bad economy every cent is
    important! Simple, no? :^)\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-19 16:15:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Mike, I was glad to hear you state that the plagiarism problem isn't so bad.
    But then I read the rest of your post, and I went back to worrying! As I said
    before (maybe in that other thread*) it's not really a legal issue in my mind,
    at least not mostly. Just like it's not illegal to go a [decent] restaurant barefoot,
    but they can kick you out anyway. When people see a copy-cat font on MyFonts,
    they think less of MyFonts, hence pay less for MyFonts products. I have to believe
    that raising the integrity of MyFonts even further goes along with lowering the
    royalties even further.\r\n\r\n* http://typophile.com/node/56010\r\n\r\nI ran
    into that Industria mash-up* about one minute into some light browsing in MyFonts
    the other day, in fact with no intention of looking for trouble. That makes me
    think more action is probably needed; and the best place to seek help is MyFonts
    signatory foundries.\r\n\r\n* And just because Industria has been copied a lot
    doesn't make it OK, in fact it makes it more deserving of protection. Just like
    how they changed the rules of soccer because Pele was being violently fouled.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-19 16:19:28'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Alex, something to consider is the size of the market for fonts. From what
    I can tell, as a font developer, it's significantly smaller than the general software
    market, perhaps magnitudes smaller. If you take this into account, it may be easier
    to understand the "weird" economics of the font industry, and some of the comments
    of people regarding the benefits of working with distributors vs. doing it yourself.
    The pie is smaller, but marketing and support costs are not proportionately smaller,
    so they take a big piece of the pie, no matter how you cut it. At least, this
    is how it appears to me.
  created: '2009-03-19 16:47:06'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "some people always grumble about the other guy's cut.\r\n\r\nit's amusing...
    \          :+)\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-19 17:28:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...will soon have fonts released...</em>\r\n\r\n<strong>DUDE!?!?!!!!</strong>"
  created: '2009-03-19 17:56:51'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Tracking. The send-in-contract-before-end-of-the-month is interesting... Should
    I read that as hard copy or online? No idea if a hard copy would get in on time.
  created: '2009-03-19 18:37:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Yes, Nick--hard to believe :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-19 18:52:05'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Jelmar, \r\n\r\nthe end of March deadline is primarily for a \"statement
    of interest\" and \"getting the ball rolling\". The final hardcopy of the contract
    can be signed a bit later, we're flexible in that regard. \r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nAdam"
  created: '2009-03-19 18:55:19'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: Oh, I really believe you now, Chris ;-)
  created: '2009-03-19 18:57:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Business is business.\r\nWhen a supplier signs up with a distributor, the
    rate is established in the contract, and either party can renegotiate the terms.\r\n\r\nSo
    a distributor-driven plan that signs up suppliers at rates favorable to them will
    help get the distributor established, and build a customer-base for the supplier.
    Suppliers have to worry about that distributor then cornering the market and reducing
    their payout, distributors have to worry about suppliers selling direct.\r\n\r\nMyFonts
    has built up a lot of traffic, but its market is different than FontShop, Veer,
    and Monotype, the other big multi-foundry retailers, so there are alternative
    distributors available to foundries. But those retailers don't take anyone who
    knocks on the door (no need for purging!).\r\n\r\nSo there may be a place for
    a no-frills all-come all-served distributor, along the lines of the original,
    Makambo. At Makambo, suppliers uploaded font files, price information, and gif
    specimens -- all automated. Makambo returned 81% of retail price to suppliers.
    Was that too much to keep it in business? It's hard to say, as it was closed by
    Flashline (the parent company) during the dotcom bust, so that company could concentrate
    on its core business.\r\n\r\nAlex, this could be your big opportunity... \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-19 18:59:19'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Amazed that this link still works... \r\n\r\nhttp://jyanet.com/cap/2001/0315ob0.shtml\r\n\r\nFlashline/Makambo
    seemed to be a reasonably classy operation - when they shuttered their site in
    March 2001 they redirected customers and vendors to MyFonts."
  created: '2009-03-19 19:13:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: At MyFonts suggestion?
  created: '2009-03-19 19:37:02'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Adam; thanks for the info. I'll definitely think about that 'statement of
    interest'. :)
  created: '2009-03-19 19:51:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Adam, pardon me while I get anal:\r\n\r\nIn the \"Origins\" section, first
    paragraph: you need an \"and\" or an \"or\" before \"sent\", here: \"different
    channels: they accepted phone orders, offered postal delivery of floppy disks
    and CD-ROMs, sent font files to customers by e-mail.\"\r\n\r\nSame section, third
    paragraph: in \"decided to close down Makambo and redirected all their customers\"
    it would be better to say \"redirect\" or \"started redirecting\".\r\n\r\nA couple
    of places in that section you have \"80-20%\", which would be better without the
    \"%\"; in fact you have \"50-50\" further up.\r\n\r\nLast paragraph of that section:
    in \"cover the operational and development cost, and left some\", \"costs\" is
    better.\r\n\r\nSame paragraph: \"It was still a deal that was way better than
    the industry standard, and has remained so to this day.\" Well, now that you're
    going to \"50-50\", that \"has\" has to go!  :-)\r\n\r\nIn the \"The things as
    they are\" section, first paragraph: \"in\" or \"with\" instead of \"into\", here:
    \"It was a wise choice for MyFonts not to get involved into extensive print activities\"\r\n\r\nSame
    paragraph, further down: \"Today, it is no longer sufficient to have an online
    \u201Cpresence\u201D. It is necessary to put up some competition efforts in the
    online world.\" 1) A semicolon instead of that period would be nice; 2) \"some
    competition efforts\" sounds... Polish? ;-) Try \"a competitive effort\".\r\n\r\nImmediately
    following: \"Having just a sales platform is no longer sufficient, we need an
    effective platform for both sales and promotion.\" Here a semicolon is de rigueur.\r\n\r\nSecond
    paragraph: in \"The visual fidelity of the online media has vastly improved\",
    cut the \"the\".\r\n\r\nSame paragraph: in \"the online channels benefits much
    more\", singular for \"benefit\" of course.\r\n\r\nThird paragraph: in \"So at
    least it is not unreasonable to assume that the online distributor will spend
    the extra money well.\" I don't really get that \"at least\"; you might just ax
    it.\r\n\r\nFifth paragraph: \"better instructions and explanations to the users
    \u2014 this will automatically benefit all participating foundries.\" 1) \"for
    user\" instead of \"to the user\"; 2) the second part is phrased a bit like Eastern
    European military propaganda... Just replacing the \"this\" with a \"which\" should
    do it.\r\n\r\nSixth paragraph: in \"The automatic WhatTheFont identification system
    backed by the WhatTheFont Forum where\", you forgot the \"is\".\r\n\r\nEighth
    paragraph: in \"We developed \u201CMore fonts like this\u201D, introduced\", say
    \"the \u201CMore fonts like this\u201D feature\" instead.\r\n\r\nLast paragraph:
    in \"immediate font downloads are industry standard now\", either hyphenate \"industry-standard\"
    or say \"an industry standard\".\r\n\r\nImmediately following: in \"and less and
    less distributors actively promote\", since you can count distributors it should
    be \"increasingly fewer\".\r\n\r\nIn the \"So, what now?\" section, first paragraph:
    in \"But the work is not finished, we have great plans.\", that comma doesn't
    work; adding an \"and\" is probably best.\r\n\r\nSame paragraph: \"With our new
    design and editorial content, we have indicated the direction.\" is a bit stilted;
    maybe \"shown our future plans\" is good enough.\r\n\r\nLast paragraph: in \"some
    foundries that had the intention of signing up but \u201Chaven\u2019t gotten around
    to doing it\u201D, we have decided that they still have the chance to sign up
    with the old rate\", 1) \"have had the intention\" is better; 2) instead of \"they\",
    say \"foundries\"; 3) \"at the old rate\" is better.\r\n\r\nThere are also some
    small things but nobody will notice those.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-19 20:05:13'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">At MyFonts suggestion?\r\n\r\nHere's what I wrote back then... http://www.microsoft.com/typography/links/news.aspx?NID=1881\r\n\r\nCertainly
    seems like there was some collaboration - creating a landing page would have required
    both sides involvement. I wouldn't be surprised if the foundries signed up with
    Makambo asked for this too. \r\n"
  created: '2009-03-19 20:21:35'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "> Alex, this could be your big opportunity...\r\n\r\nI hear ya, Nick."
  created: '2009-03-19 20:31:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Wonderful news Chris!!!
  created: '2009-03-19 20:32:16'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Hrant, \r\n\r\nI have decided to stick with the asyndeton here and there
    but have incorporated many of your suggestions \u2014 thank you! \r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-19 20:54:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I wouldn\u2019t be surprised if the foundries signed up with Makambo
    asked for this too.</em>\r\n\r\nI didn't, but it was a brilliant idea, whoever
    came up with it."
  created: '2009-03-19 20:58:19'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Congratulations, Chris.
  created: '2009-03-19 22:35:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks, everyone!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-19 23:02:45'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Yes, Congrats Chris! If you had published with us, we wouldn't be having
    this thread bein' we publish and take 50%, less if the fonts ain't done. As Epsilicon
    put it, 'we are not doing a good job [of] controlling our operational expenses
    and th[o]se expenses are not applied most effeciently.' Furthermore, at 50% for
    20 years now, we only ever screw it up, go on to the next design/sale/royalty
    cycle, and try to do better.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-20 15:58:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I love this emerging transparency. Just a few years ago when you asked somebody
    by private email how much royalties the font house they'd signed up with paid
    them, they'd say: \"Please call me, I'd rather not tell you in writing.\"\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-20 16:04:52'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "This topic has been opaque with us forever, Hrant.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-03-20 17:41:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I don't get it. Do you mean your previous post was leg-pulling?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-20 17:45:16'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Sorry for seeming petulant earlier.\r\n\r\nI contacted MyFonts for a prospectus
    years ago and truly haven't yet got around to completing the application. The
    text of the document certainly gave the impression of requiring the foundry applicant
    to have product ready to sell immediately (and being a perfectionist I never feel
    like anything is quite ready to let go to the public), but I am assured by comments
    in this thread that that is not the case, so there is nothing to hold me back
    now."
  created: '2009-03-20 20:15:29'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: To paraphrase Matthew Carter, who was paraphrasing someone else, "Typefaces
    are never finished, only abandoned."
  created: '2009-03-20 21:21:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "and some are recklessly abandoned :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-20 21:54:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Yes, Congrats Chris! If you had published with us, we wouldn\u2019t be
    having this thread...\"\r\n\r\nHmmmm, \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-20 22:25:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I think Carter was paraphrasing French poet Paul Valery: "A poem is never
    finished, only abandoned." Of course to typophiles, a typeface is as emotionally
    moving as a poem!'
  created: '2009-03-20 23:14:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "A poem by any other name...\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-21 00:12:47'
- author:
    name: ladyships
    picture: 117044
  body: "( I <em>so</em> desperately wish I could, um, <em>cowercringequail</em> more
    effectually  into these parentheses\u2014but...as-i-am-<em>so-very-<strong>not</strong></em>-triumphant...that\u2014[SORRY!SORRY!]\u2014I
    should be so mettleirksome to resurrect a topic left to the dust, um, a fair ways
    ago...but\u2014 ) \r\n\r\n...Mister <strong>Nick Sherman</strong> sir?\u2014I
    sent an e-mail to <code>foundry@myfonts.com</code> expressing interest in selling
    a few fonts through MyFonts \u2019roundabouts a month ago...never received a reply\u2014&
    lost heart the day that that 50% sidled in...butbutbut as soon as I read about
    the extension of the old percentage 'till the end of March, I sent another missive
    to <code>foundry@myfonts</code>\u2014\r\n\r\nBecause I dread that this epistle
    will tumble into some binary purgatory [<em>just like her hapless forerunner</em>]...could
    you <em>perhapsmaybe?</em>\u2014alert me here if you've still not received anything
    from me...? [& I = 'interrorobang']\r\n\r\n...erkf. "
  created: '2009-03-23 13:13:27'
- author:
    name: ladyships
    picture: 117044
  body: Alleluia! A reply! (Kindly disregard my halfwitted perambulations that do
    precede, Collective Anonymous. Ain't nothin' to see 'ere, move 'long.)
  created: '2009-03-23 13:47:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Her Ladyships note in a bottle succeeds where the e-world fails :-) \r\n\r\nWelcome
    to the Island of Typophile. :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-23 14:44:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Some things actually do come to pass... eventually ;-)\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/58191\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-05-20 22:46:13'
date: '2009-03-17 16:10:08'
title: Has MyFonts reduced the percentage they pay designers? (sign up by 3/31 to
  still get the better deal!)

---
