---
author:
  name: nina
  picture: 111699
body: "Here's something I've been thinking about and would love some input on. I'm
  sure this has been discussed at length before, and I know I'm still in a very early
  stage of learning, so I'll be equally glad about pointers to older threads, and/or
  literature.\r\n\r\nLooking at <a href=\"http://briem.ismennt.is/2/2.3.5a/2.3.5.02.method.htm\">Briem's
  page on spacing</a>, I noticed he employs the \"glass of water\" analogy to describe
  correct spacing (\"the same volume of water that filled the counters should also
  fill the gaps between the letters\"), which is also how I was taught letterspacing
  at design school. \r\nA different description, which \u2014being more functionally-oriented
  than merely formalistically descriptive\u2014 intuitively seems to make more sense,
  is this one that I just came across in Peter Enneson's article in TYPO #13 (page
  26): \"Perceptual distances between letterforms must be great enough to minimize
  criterial cue confusions or masking. But not be so large that cross-letter binding
  or constructive conjunction is inhibited.\" \r\n\r\nSo here's the question. Especially
  compared to definions such as Peter Enneson's quoted above, I'm suspecting the \"glass
  of water\" model is overly simplistic &ndash; mainly because of the issue of optical
  scaling, the need of which I'm not sure it can accommodate. My impression from a
  typesetting/typography perspective is that the need for a relative expansion of
  inter-letter space (OK, tracking) is much increased at smaller point sizes. Now
  I know that optimally, setting text at a smaller size means employing a dedicated
  optically-sized cut, which (inter alia) increases the relative width and visible
  counterspace of the lettershapes. But it seems that the <em>inter</em>-letter space
  needs to be adjusted more for smaller sizes than the <em>intra</em>-letter space
  usually is &ndash; as in, the adjustments made to intra- and inter-letter space
  seem not to be linear. \r\n\r\nIf this is indeed so, then I'm wondering why. Does
  the effect of lateral interference increase at smaller sizes? Also, if intra- and
  inter-letter space do not in fact scale in a linear fashion, how can one talk about
  glasses of water without factoring in target point size?\r\n\r\nOr am I mistaken
  (and most likely, visually misdirected from working too much with non-optically-sized
  digital fonts) and in proper optical sizing, the scaling of intra- and inter-letter
  space actually is parallel/linear, so that the concept of optical scaling does not
  in fact refute the \"glass of water\" model?"
comments:
- author:
    name: daniele capo
    picture: 113718
  body: "Well, consider the two shapes in the image below\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/spacing_4438.gif]\r\n\r\nthey
    have the same area (\u2018volume of water\u2019), do they 'look' equivalent? Even
    if you can calculate the volume of intra/interspaces, trying to equalize volumes
    (numerically) is a very crude approach, I suspect. \r\nI don\u2019t know much
    about perception but I think you need to consider other factors, like the 'compactness'
    of a shape, the absolute dimensions, etc. \r\n\r\ndaniele"
  created: '2009-03-18 14:12:59'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"I think you need to consider other factors, like the \u2019compactness\u2019
    of a shape, the absolute dimensions, etc.\"</em>\r\nCertainly. I sure hope the
    adherents of the \"glass of water\" model wouldn't apply the principle mechanically/mathematically
    (that would be scary), but adjust the space optically &ndash; but still <em>based</em>
    on the \"glass of water\" idea. (FWIW, that's what they taught me at school.)
    \r\n\r\nStill, the metaphor is there and I wonder how much merit it has. How elastic
    can a glass be (esp regarding the point size question) before it stops being a
    glass? :->\r\n\r\nAs a PS, I just remembered a slightly different metaphor used
    by Jost Hochuli, who talks about the white as light shining into the lettershapes,
    which allows for slightly finer gradations (like he says light coming from above
    is stronger, which is why a sans serif \"u\" needs to be narrower than an \"n\")
    but still departs from the idea of equal \"light\" inside and around the letters."
  created: '2009-03-18 15:47:26'
- author:
    name: daniele capo
    picture: 113718
  body: "Thanks for having quoted the light metaphor (I didn\u2019t know about it),
    I like it. My hypothesis is that the liquid you have in the glass is not homogeneous
    and/or it can be 'activated'/'de/activated' by the boundaries of the glass."
  created: '2009-03-18 16:47:20'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Cool, sci-fi plasma fluid! :-)\r\n\r\nI can look up the light metaphor and
    quote it more precisely if you're interested. \r\nBut I read it in a book I don't
    have, so I'd hit the library tomorrow."
  created: '2009-03-18 16:52:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nina, Yes, generally, larger type needs less interletter spacing. Other things
    occur along with the visual mass concept (glass of water theory expanded to include
    perceptual bias). A big factor is proximity of nearest segment--meaning a serif
    on a cap V being near a Serif on a cap W.  When the two are quite close, the proximity
    factor begins to overcome part of the visual mass of space issue. It is often
    impossible to have a space as those between upright adjacent letters like H and
    N be truly equal to adjacent opposing diagonals like V and Y unless you vastly
    letterspace. Using the proximity effect minimizes the perceived difference though.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-18 17:28:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That glass of water is not drinkable - dump it down the drain.\r\nProximity
    of parts is a central parameter.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-18 17:54:16'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thanks guys. Sounds like the \"glass of water\" model, at the very least,
    isn't accounting for everything that needs to be considered.\r\n\r\n<em>\"Yes,
    generally, larger type needs less interletter spacing.\"</em>\r\nThanks for confirming
    this, Chris. \r\nI still wonder why, if anyone is up for explaining that. Maybe
    something to do with there being <em>absolute</em> limits to visibility of interletter
    space (especially related to the proximity parameter*)?\r\n\r\n* Which I can see
    now is probably included in the concept of \"perceptual distance\" quoted above
    (I read \"distance\" as a linear concept rather than [only] volume-based)."
  created: '2009-03-18 18:12:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It could be like a visual Doppler effect where sound appears to increase
    in pitch as it gets closer,\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-18 18:18:44'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "?\r\nSounds mysterious! (I know what the Doppler effect is, but I don't get
    how the translation works.)"
  created: '2009-03-18 20:52:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It is an effect of perception, not an actual effect on pitch of sound. Translated
    to looking at small type, our perception may make a feeling of closure to neighboring
    glyphs, at some point, almost a sense of gravitational pull takes effect but only
    in our eyes.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-18 21:02:14'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Tracking
  created: '2009-03-18 21:31:00'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "No offense Chris, and I'm not contesting <em>what</em> you said, but this
    sounds a bit esoteric. :-)\r\nAnd maybe this stuff is just that &ndash; but I
    guess I'm wondering if there are any attempts to find out how this funny effect
    of perception* comes about.\r\n\r\n* By the way, I always thought the Doppler
    effect <em>is</em> an actual effect on pitch of sound, in the way that sound waves
    emanating from a moving object in the direction of that movement (relative to
    the observer) are \"squooshed\", making for a different received frequency &ndash;
    not just the brain playing tricks? I may be mistaken though."
  created: '2009-03-18 21:43:00'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: 'I post "tracking" when I want to follow a thread so it "bookmarks" it in
    my account settings. RSS seems to not work on my current computer. Funny miscommunication
    given the content of this thread eh? None taken.  '
  created: '2009-03-18 21:49:32'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Christopher, I was talking to ChrisL. I only got confused about your "Tracking"
    posts the first twenty times or so I saw them. :->
  created: '2009-03-18 22:35:02'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@ A,\r\n\r\nThat made me laugh. Thank you."
  created: '2009-03-18 22:52:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nina, the sound of a car engine at the source is a given pitch and does not
    change. Sound moving through an air mass with dense atmosphere can alter what
    hits your ear some distance away but does not truly change the source of the sound
    (the car engine). Granted, I am making a metaphoric comparison, not a scientific
    one--so far, none exists. The ratio of letterspace to glyph does not change in
    reality but it appears to. Since the eye is always the final arbiter, we have
    to appease then not a measuring device. There may come a day when science has
    a more measurable reason for the difference and can predict the proper distance
    of change but it is just easier to make your change visually. Take a font designed
    for text reading and another for display from the same family and scale them to
    the same size. You will see the difference but you may not find a ratio of change
    that suits all families of type.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-18 23:07:54'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"the sound of a car engine at the source is a given pitch and does not
    change.\"</em>\r\nOf course not <em>at the source</em>, but in this case, in the
    space between the source and the ear; I'd put that in the realm of physics, not
    perceptional psychology. Whereas with the issue of spaces between small lettershapes,
    I wouldn't expect some light rays to physically go astray on the way to the eye
    &ndash; but rather something strange to happen inside the eye, or the brain? But
    that's conjecture, and maybe also semantics rather than anything else.\r\n\r\n<em>\"Since
    the eye is always the final arbiter, we have to appease then not a measuring device.\"</em>\r\nOh
    that point is totally clear. And I wasn't looking for numbers (how much to adjust
    it by, or something). I'm just very curious to learn how perception works, maybe
    overly so. If you say science doesn't know yet, that's an answer."
  created: '2009-03-19 00:01:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nina,\r\n\r\nMy sound analogy probably was less helpful than confusing :-)\r\n\r\nWe
    actually only anecdotally know that it works--even preferentially if you count
    legibility studies where \"increased letter spacing\" seems to be preferred by
    subjects of studies at reading text sizes. I don't remember the names of the studies
    any more and am sadly only left with what the perceived conclusion was.  We are
    all curious to find out more about how perception works. There have been numerous
    studies but the why and how to part still does not seem clear enough to help a
    type designer much more than trial amd error. Oh, well, sorry I could not be of
    much help.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-19 03:29:39'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: I might have said this before but I always thought a surface area calculator
    would be a useful plug-in. Not to be relied on, of course.
  created: '2009-03-19 12:17:38'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"And I wasn\u2019t looking for numbers (how much to adjust it by, or something)\"\r\nFollowing,
    Briem\u2019s page on spacing you always have the type you are employing to guide
    you. So, if you are composing type, and you want to see what tracking works, and
    how the glasses of water are equalized, set a line like iiiniii in the face you
    are spacing, or IIIHIII if caps, (the i's and l's have 'no water inside' and the
    n or H show you the how the average inside space relates). With tracking you can
    adjust this text sample so that the space between i's and the counter of the n
    are even, or as I and many others prefer, with slightly less space outside than
    in. Then, you can apply this tracking to broader text.\r\n\r\n\"I post \u201Ctracking\u201D
    when I want to follow a thread so it \u201Cbookmarks\u201D it in my account settings.\"\r\n...but
    like so many things we are all free to do, if we all did this...\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-03-19 12:38:27'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > But it seems that the <em>inter</em>-letter space needs to be adjusted
    more for smaller sizes than the <em>intra</em>-letter space usually is </cite>\r\n\r\nNina,
    can you explain what you base this statement on? I'm just interested in understanding
    your frame of reference. I want to make sure I'm reading you right. You're saying
    that it seems that for smaller sizes the space inside letters is usually adjusted
    more than the space between letters. Did I get that right?\r\n\r\nAre you thinking
    about a comparison of text to small text, or are you comparing display to text?
    (I think these are definitely two different paradigms, so I want to understand
    which you're talking about.)\r\n\r\nAnd are you looking at/thinking about metal
    type (which was inherently optically scaled) or current \"opticals\" like what
    Adobe and others have done? \r\n\r\n-- Kent.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-19 13:11:29'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The glass of water thing in Briem is seriously misleading if you take it
    too seriously. Looking visually equal and actually being equal in area are two
    different things. I've tested it by measuring inter-letter areas between nn and
    oo on well-spaced type. They're not mathematically equal, even though they look
    nicely balanced. \r\n\r\nAs well as visual equality of inter-letter space, making
    the outer space proportional to inner counter space, keeping adjacent parts from
    visually crowding, keeping a (not exact) regular rhythm of verticals and white,
    and even adjusting for weight of strokes--left vs right side of M--are all things
    to consider and weigh. And they are sometimes in conflict with one another. \r\n\r\nI
    certainly don't claim to know the ideal way to balance all these. Then again there
    may not be any ideal, but various compromises. \r\n\r\nOh, and it does change
    with optical size. Further, the tightening of display vs text is probably best
    not simply tracking tighter. The oo and ll may work a little differently--at least
    that's Slimbach's view.      "
  created: '2009-03-19 13:39:07'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "With tiny letters, the whitespace is tiny too...so that the eye needs to
    be much more acute if the letterspacing isn't increased (due to clotting). So
    there's an inverse relationship, but I don't imagine that it's a linear one. And
    I imagine that the intra-letter space doesn't change so much because the letterforms
    themselves are still recognisable as long as they're not crunched up next to other
    ones? However, I think also that the x-height tends to increase as your point
    size goes down too? \r\n\r\nI don't know enough, again! :)"
  created: '2009-03-19 13:39:58'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Could it be that there is a very simple technical explanation/reason for
    larger sidings in small type vs smaller in larger type? Eg the fact that there
    is a lot more wear and tear on the parts of metal type that are close the the
    edge?\r\n\r\nI imagine a natural process having taken place where the typecasters
    explored this and came to the evident conclusion that there is a minimum amount
    of sidebearing needed to keep type in good shape (at least for a period long enough\u2026).\r\n\r\nReaders
    would of course become accustomed to this and notice discrepancies from this practice,
    making it kind of obligatory to continue, even after we left metal type behind.\r\n\r\n
    . . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-03-19 14:06:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nina,\r\nPost away. You are not too demanding at all! Your posts are intelligent
    and insightful!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-19 14:30:27'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "[This should be above ChrisL's post! I had to fix a vicious typo.]\r\n\r\nKent:\r\n<em>\"You\u2019re
    saying that it seems that for smaller sizes the space inside letters is usually
    adjusted more than the space between letters. Did I get that right?\"</em>\r\nNo
    &ndash; I meant it exactly the other way round! As in, the spacing needs to change
    more than the letterforms/counters. Sorry if I was being confusing. :-/\r\n\r\n<em>\"can
    you explain what you base this statement on?\"</em>\r\nOK, here comes the big
    disclaimer: Yes, I was thinking about text vs. small text. But to be honest, I
    wasn't strictly \"looking\" at anything &ndash; more drawing from what I'm used
    to seeing. I'll gladly go and see if I can find examples to illustrate this.\r\n\r\nThough
    now I'm wondering if a lot of what I have been seeing is not actually the proper
    way of doing things, as I'm probably somewhat used to seeing text set at less
    than the intended point size, and tracked out (hell, they taught us that at school,
    too). But the interesting thing is, that still is more readable then than when
    it's not tracked out (and the counters vs. spacing ratio stays the same). And
    the opposite &ndash; a really wide font for small text that's spaced tight &ndash;
    is definitely not going to be easily readable. Which brings up the question if
    inter-letter spacing is by definition more of a deciding factor for readability
    than the space inside the letters.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nWilliam, thank you for this
    thoughtful post! FWIW, of course my interest in spacing has been triggered anew
    by thinking about spacing my font; so this list of criteria you posted seems most
    helpful in a practical way too.\r\n\r\nHey Ben, you might be on to something there
    \u2013 the concepts of clotting, and \"acuteness\" of the eye, sound pretty plausible
    to me, in the way that it might be an issue of resolution (both of the eye maybe,
    but more importantly paper and ink), so that the letters need to be separated
    from each other a bit more? (Which again would demonstrate the heightened importance
    of spacing over the intra-letter white for readability.)\r\n\r\nDaniele: I'm about
    to hit the library and dig up that \"light\" quote.\r\n\r\n\u2026ah, so much to
    learn.  :-)\r\nBy the way, if somebody feels I shouldn't post and ask the experts
    about such things before doing my own research, I can see their point. My hunger
    for learning is sometimes more urgent than I can read everything I'd need/want
    to right now; and I love these sorts of threads &ndash; but please tell me if
    I'm being too demanding."
  created: '2009-03-19 14:33:06'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: And, thanks Chris! I'm glad to hear you say that.
  created: '2009-03-19 14:36:26'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Nina, the passage from my Typo #13 text you quote above is about design,
    more specifically, what I call role-architectures, or construction. \u201CPerceptual
    distances between letterforms must be great enough to minimize criterial cue confusions
    or masking. But not be so large that cross-letter binding or constructive conjunction
    is inhibited.\u201D Perceptual distance is a cognitive psychology term for how
    dissimilar or similar letters are. Hrant did some really nice work on this years
    ago.\r\n\r\nPerceptual distances are calculated from letter confusion matrices,
    which are experimentally derived. For example an a and an e are more often confused
    than an a and an m, so the perceptual distance between a and m is greater than
    between a and e. Herman Bouma did some nice charting of perceptual distances that
    corresponds nicely with Hrant's chart of similars and modulars.\r\n\r\nMy comment
    on spacing follows the passage you quoted. I say: \u201CIf spacing between letterforms
    is not in synchronicity with the space inside enclosed forms\u2014with the way
    the letterform set uses its cartesian space\u2014there are computation costs at
    the visual cortex level, because the saliencies can\u2019t compound effectively--the
    \u2018saliency maps\u2019 are thrown off. Configural cues become harder to assemble.
    Conjunctivities are weakened. The wholistic response bias compromised. So \u201Cspace
    craft\u201D facilitates effortless perceptual processing.\r\n\r\nI see one factor
    relating to spacing, and three that relate to scaling for small sizes. For spacing,
    the blacks must be in step and the whites in synch in spatial frequency terms;
    for small sizes, perceptual discrimination affordance to the role-unit and evoked-form
    level must be intact, the ink-spread factor must be accommodated and the dependence
    of vision on the white must be kept in mind. \r\n\r\nBear in mind that \u2018in
    step\u2019 and \u2018in synch\u2019 are not mathematically quantifiable. In step
    is not equidistant and in synch is not equivalent in area. I try to think in terms
    of rhythmic cohesion with the whites, and narrow but not exact phase alignment
    with the blacks. Fourier transforms, I believe, can gauge this. The method Berlow
    describes is a way toward achieving it.\r\n\r\nPerceptual discrimination affordance
    is the visual cortex being able to make out what something, for example a letter-part,
    is. There are size, crowding, and acuity thresholds here. Making out what a letter-part
    is means resolving marks into shapes the visual cortex knows. I call this process
    of resolving \u2018quantization.\u2019 Quantization underlies categorical perception,
    the psychological term for \u2018seeing as.\u2019 Seeing a d as a d for instance.\r\n\r\nIn
    relation to the dependence of vision on the white, bear in mind that vision uses
    reflected light, and the black does not reflect, so if the white is overwhelmed
    by the black, the fundaments of readability \u2014 perceptual discrimination affordance,
    quantization, categorical perception and rapid automatic visual wordform resolution
    \u2014 all suffer. \r\n"
  created: '2009-03-19 15:50:34'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Topic Deviation: On InDesign, you have the option of 'optical' kerning as
    opposed to 'metrics' kerning. I realise kerning is not the same as tracking, but
    should this option be able to add extra tracking to smaller sizes? \r\n\r\nAnd
    how does 'optical kerning' measure the amount of space between letters? Is it
    shortest linear distance between glyphs or does it calculate the area somehow
    magically?\r\n\r\n(Sorry if this isn't quite relevant.)"
  created: '2009-03-19 16:05:57'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Nina -- No, it's not you being confusing, it's me having a hard time keeping
    <em>inter-</em> and <em>intra-</em> straight in my mind. I don't know why this
    pair always trips me up. Sorry.\r\n\r\nOkay, I wanted to make sure you were talking
    about the text realm, because in this case I have some visual material that you
    may find pertinent and interesting. And I suspected that you were drawing your
    conclusions from relatively recent practice. Which is still somewhat removed from
    the standard practices from the metal era. \r\n\r\nI'll post a visual a little
    later when I get a moment to prep the scans.\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-19 17:21:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nina, thanks, that post is the result of my effort over some time to answer
    the question you asked, a question I also had. I still don't have any definitive
    answer, but I feel that at least I better understand the dimensions of the problem.
    \ \r\n\r\n>so if the white is overwhelmed by the black, the fundaments of readability
    \u2014 perceptual discrimination affordance, quantization, categorical perception
    and rapid automatic visual wordform resolution \u2014 all suffer.\r\n\r\nVery
    interesting, Peter, this might be why bold works in display but is less readable
    in text. In larger sizes the white has enough 'presence' for the eye to do its
    job, but not so much at small. \r\n\r\nBendy, in [[http://typophile.com/node/54310|this
    recent thread]] Kent Lew brilliantly analyzed the damage done by 'Optical Spacing'.
    \  "
  created: '2009-03-19 17:25:35'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Peter, thank you for stepping in and saving me from completely misreading
    the very passage I quoted! :-/ \r\nFor the record, I thought your text was very
    well written, and quite understandable for a novice like me &ndash; I should have
    paid more attention. (I always find it hard, in a new field, to find out which
    terms are \"cuewords\" that have entire theories attached to them, and which ones
    can be understood more-or-less by the basic meaning of the words. Here [in \"perceptual
    <em>distance</em>\"] I assumed the latter, probably also seduced by the following
    paragraph, which is about spacing, like you said.)\r\n\r\nI find your post extremely
    illuminating &ndash; thank you very much for explaining!\r\nThis is a healthy
    dose of food for thought, which will need some time (and re-reading) to sink in.\r\n\r\n<em>\"Perceptual
    distance is a cognitive psychology term for how dissimilar or similar letters
    are\"</em>\r\nAh, I see! I've come across this concept (mostly, actually, in Hrant's
    work, like his paper in \"Graphic Design & Reading\" [now I sure hope I'm not
    mixing up things again]).\r\n\r\n<em>\"For spacing, the blacks must be in step
    and the whites in synch in spatial frequency terms\"</em>\r\nAhha! So to think
    in terms of linear distance for the black, and area for the white &ndash; a little
    illumination in itself!\r\n\r\n<em>\"if the white is overwhelmed by the black,
    the fundaments of readability [\u2026] all suffer\"</em>\r\n\u2026 but would this
    hold true for intra- and inter-letter space/white equally, or is it more crucial
    for the latter?\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nBen, there was a recent thread (I think it was
    titled \"Opinions on Meridien for books\") that involved a somewhat elaborate
    discussion on InDesign's optical spacing &ndash; now I'm trying to find it again\u2026\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\n[I
    need to think/type more quickly.]"
  created: '2009-03-19 17:51:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The glass of water thing in Briem is seriously\r\n> misleading if you take
    it too seriously.\r\n\r\nYes, please take it frivolously. Basically, not at all.\r\n\r\n>
    the tightening of display vs text is probably best not\r\n> simply tracking tighter.
    The oo and ll may work a\r\n> little differently\r\n\r\nCertainly the best example
    is the \"r\":\r\nthe spacing of its right side is largely\r\nindependent of tracking!\r\n\r\n>
    at least that\u2019s Slimbach\u2019s view.\r\n\r\nAre you \"reverse-engineering\"
    here,\r\nor actually citing something he's said?\r\n\r\n> I think also that the
    x-height tends to\r\n> increase as your point size goes down too?\r\n\r\nIndeed
    - and this increases the letterspacing needs further.\r\n\r\n> before doing my
    own research\r\n\r\nHey, this <em>is</em> your own research!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-19 17:53:05'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"Hey, this is your own research!\"</em>\r\nI love this place.\r\n\r\nKent,
    no worries &ndash; I thought I might have mixed up the \"inter\" and \"intra\"
    myself.\r\nI'm looking forward to visuals! Meanwhile, I'll be typing up that \"light\"
    metaphor that Daniele wanted to hear. Gonna be curious what the jury says on that.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nRe
    the glass of water: If this is so dauntingly limited, how can this continue to
    be a popular metaphor that is even taught to design students? Is that like they
    teach you the atom model at school in a way that is scientifically wrong, but
    at least they think it's understandable enough for students?\r\nWhat Peter said
    above about how to gauge the black and the white in terms of distance and area;
    and William's points about what needs to be considered in spacing; sure, that
    is more involved, but also a lot more tangible, and real, than imaginary glasses
    of imaginary fluid being filled into\u2026 counters. :-{\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nBen,
    for the record: the thread I was referring to is the one linked to by William
    Berkson above."
  created: '2009-03-19 18:11:17'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>If this is so dauntingly limited, how can this continue to be a popular
    metaphor that is even taught to design students?</cite>\r\n\r\nMost of what design
    students are taught is dauntingly limited. But in many cases it\u2019s the best
    starting point we\u2019ve got, and it\u2019s up to the students to let their imaginations
    and judgement take them beyond the limits of pedagogy. "
  created: '2009-03-19 18:28:42'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Are you \u201Creverse-engineering\u201D here,\r\nor actually citing something
    he\u2019s said?\r\n\r\nSee page 53 of this Adobe booklet: www.adobe.com/devnet/font/pdfs/5091.Design_MM_Fonts.pdf
    . I was talking to Lucas de Groot after his TDC presentation (with Miriam Bantjes--what
    an all star event!) and he referred to this paper as a hidden gem and said that
    \"Slimbach himself\" wrote most of it. The illustration also uses Minion. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-19 18:32:57'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "As promised, here's Jost Hochuli's alternative to water, light. It's actually
    not half as exciting as I thought I remembered \u2013 I should have quoted it
    a few hours ago, considering how far this thread has taken us from when I first
    mentioned this!\r\n\r\nThis is from \"Detail in Typography\" (1989); my library
    only has the German edition, so here's my wobbly and definitely unquoteable translation:\r\n[First
    he goes on talking about the importance of making everything evenly grey with
    no \"holes\"]\u2026 \"Even though the spaces between the lettershapes are not
    [mathematically] equal, a well spaced word looks even; so this can not be about
    equal space in terms of areas of space. If we replace the term \"space\" by the
    term \"light\", everything becomes a lot easier, and we can do without unclear
    terminology\u2026\r\nThe light &ndash; the lightness of the letters' environment,
    the ground &ndash; flows into the counters and the spaces between the lettres
    from above and below; the light that comes from above is more active than the
    light from below. This brings about the fact that the letter \"n\" in a sans serif
    needs to be a bit wider than the \"u\" in the same font if they are meant to appear
    to be the same width optically. In much the same way, the area between \"I\" and
    \"A\" needs to be less than that between \"I\" and \"V\" (assuming the same angles
    on the \"A\" and the \"V\"\u2026). This phenomenon cannot be accounted for with
    the theory of equal areas of space, but very much so with the theory of equal
    light.\"\r\n\r\nI should add this is a tiny book for students/novices. I haven't
    read anything \"bigger\" by him."
  created: '2009-03-19 18:57:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"(assuming the same angles on the \u201CA\u201D and the \u201CV\u201D\u2026)\"\r\n\r\nI
    have been making the angle of the A more open than the V to overcome the darkness
    that comes with the addition of the crossbar in the A.--Not a huge amount though.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-19 18:58:21'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Nina --\r\n\r\nFor your consideration (and without any analysis or conclusions
    from me), here are examples of fitting sequences taken from the Advance Proofs
    for two different sizes of Dwiggins's Falcon, scaled to equivalence. The upper
    sample is 10 point; the one beneath is 6 point.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Falcon10_lcspacing_5162.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Falcon06_lcspacing_5675.png]\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\nAn
    Advance Proof was a standardized final proof that was made by Mergenthaler Linotype
    for each font of new type before the matrices were passed for stock and released
    to the trade. One portion of the proof was devoted to checking the fitting intervals
    and base alignments and consisted of each character in the alphabet alternating
    between a \"square\" and a \"round\" letter (i.e., H & O for capitals and m &
    o for lowercase).\r\n\r\nSo, this offers an excellent opportunity for us to peer
    into the kinds of adjustment that were being applied in terms of spacing and proportions,
    at least in the Linotype approach (ca. 1950s). Griffith & co. prided themselves
    on carefully adjusted individual drawings for each character of each size, not
    mere geometric or photographic \"blowing up\" or \"blowing down.\"\r\n\r\nBTW,
    Griffith is quoted as expressing that he felt the Falcon series represented \"an
    almost perfect proportional curve to the eye.\" (See Walter Tracy's <cite>Letters
    of Credit</cite>, page 53 for further discussion of this.)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-19 19:00:19'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "It just dawned on me that if one thinks the \"light\" theory through, Chris,
    even without a crossbar the \"A\" would have to be wider than the \"V\". :-/\r\nSimplification,
    I detest thee."
  created: '2009-03-19 19:00:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Simplification is a myth in type design. It takes a great deal more work
    to make it look simple than to make it look complicated.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-19 19:02:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "William, am I glad I asked!\r\nThat looks like a major hidden gem alright
    - thank you.\r\n\r\nBTW, looking through that quickly I saw a graphic that\r\nRaph
    posted to Typophile recently*, except he referred to\r\nit as \"Adobe Tech Note
    5091\" which made it sound boring.  :-)\r\n\r\n* http://typophile.com/node/54815\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-19 19:06:24'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Here, for the full effect, is a collage of comparisons from the full set
    of Falcon Advance Proofs I have, in descending point size -- 12, 11, 10, 9, .&nbsp;.&nbsp;.
    7, and 6. I apologize: for some reason, I don't have the 8-point proof.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Falcon_sizes_4068.png]\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[Sorry
    for the delay, which separated my posts. Seems we've got a few subthreads going
    simultaneously.]"
  created: '2009-03-19 19:11:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I teach the glass of water, because it is the best way to explain how basic
    sidebearing width works, and for students to get their fonts to space nicely.\r\nI
    use O, I, and V in Futura as examples.\r\n(Admittedly, this is somewhat device-dependant,
    as Karsten has noted.)\r\n\r\nHowever, in theory I believe that the perceptual
    process of reading is multiplex, and that they eye is aware of not only the area
    of positive and negative space, but the weight of strokes and, as Hrant notes,
    proximity, or the distance between elements. There is also the issue of scalar
    versus absolute relationships, the quality of sharpness and the shape of curves.
    And there are of course visual dimensions of design that we are not aware of and
    cannot express.\r\n\r\nThe reader's eye sees all these different raw visual qualities,
    and the brain synthesizes meaning."
  created: '2009-03-19 19:13:40'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Chris, I meant simplification of theory, not in design. \r\n(What is it with
    our misunderstandings?! :-) )\r\n\r\nKent: Wow, thank you &ndash; this is great!
    I will need to (and gladly will) look at it in detail, and figure out what it
    can tell me with regard to the questions I had/have. \r\nI won't be able to keep
    up the current pace of this thread with that, though.\r\n\r\nHrant: that thread
    looks like it could actually be more interesting than I first thought it would
    be. :->\r\n\r\nNick, I just realized that spacing at my school was also practiced
    with sans serif caps with classical \"Roman\" proportions (though we drew those
    ourselves first) at huge sizes &ndash; which is a pretty different animal (I'd
    expect) than spacing a text font, so maybe some simplification should be allowed
    for\u2026 apart from the fact that most of my classmates already were annoyed
    by type. :-/ \r\n\r\n<em>\"The reader\u2019s eye sees all these different raw
    visual qualities, and the brain synthesizes meaning.\"</em>\r\nBeautifully said.
    I find this exact process to be infinitely enticing (and especially so when it
    includes actually designing what the reader sees) precisely because it's so complex,
    not really understood yet, and because it's so close on the border between research/science
    and design; a tectonic fault between two worlds that is calling for bridges to
    be built, from both sides.\r\n\r\nThank you guys, this is a great discussion.
    I think my head will explode soon. And my type class is only coming <em>up</em>
    this weekend! :-)"
  created: '2009-03-19 19:31:44'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "For giggles, I'v superimposed an inverted Myriad Pro A onto the letter V
    to see the differences in the optical adjustments made by Robert Slimbach. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/va_5445.png]"
  created: '2009-03-19 19:52:53'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: The A is certainly wider, and notice the notches cut to make the counter more
    "open". I'm curious why the same notches weren't needed in the V?
  created: '2009-03-19 19:56:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I\u2019m curious why the same notches weren\u2019t needed in the V?\"\r\n\r\nThe
    V does not have an enclosed counter to battle with. Also, the V joins at bottom
    along with the W which it is more often visually compared. \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-19 20:08:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: That belongs in a gallery, Dan.
  created: '2009-03-19 20:10:26'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Thanks for translating the light theory, Nina. I\u2019ll be sure to read
    the English edition of the book. And Kent, those scans are great!\r\n\r\nOn the
    subject, what are people\u2019s feelings on using fine optical adjustments to
    control spacing such as in the letter A above? Is it acceptable to shape the counter
    that way from the start, or should that sort of thing be considered trapping and
    only done to deal with ink spread? "
  created: '2009-03-19 20:51:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "James,\r\nShape it whenever you \"see\" it as needing it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-19 21:15:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: James, the "trapping" is part of the design, because typographers primarily
    identify and remember typefaces by considering their appearance at large scale,
    up close.
  created: '2009-03-19 21:15:42'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "That giant notch in the A's counter isn't for ink spread. It looks obvious
    to me that it is clearly designed to \"open\" up the A, not counteract any inkspread.
    Otherwise the V WOULD have it too, since the ink wouldn't care if the letter was
    upside down and sideways.\r\n\r\nIt's also apparent that the stem width on the
    A is done in an interesting way. The lower half of the right leg is clearly wider
    than the V. But the stem width within the counter, discounting the notch, is the
    same as the V, or close to it.\r\n\r\nI wonder if that is done for the same reason
    that an X is adjusted for its cross beams, or if it has to deal with the appearance
    of the total weight of the A?"
  created: '2009-03-19 21:28:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: I've noticed that to my eyes sometimes the bottom of characters can take a
    bit more weight near the baseline than at their tops. I suspect it has to do with
    the illusion of weight and stability.
  created: '2009-03-19 22:48:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'd like to note here that Slimbach does not believe in any trapping at all.
    The trapping in Myriad must be due to Twombly (and was probably one source of
    their fabled constant bickering), especially since she was doing it early on (see
    the charming Mirarae).\r\n\r\nMy requisite plug concerning trapping:\r\nhttp://themicrofoundry.com/ss_trapping1.html\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-20 00:44:51'
- author:
    name: daniele capo
    picture: 113718
  body: "Thanks Nina for the quote.\r\n\r\nThis discussion seems a bit too complex
    for me. Can I ask something?\r\n\r\n1. Can we assume that in perception there
    are scale thresholds where something different appears (\u2018cognitively\u2019)?
    \ I mean, when you reach some dimension (for example the 10/9 points)\r\n2. Even
    the definition of area between letters seems undefined, that area is usually unbounded
    (up and down). How can we assume, for research reason, where the top and bottom
    boundaries of that area are? or can we simply say that we look only at the 'x-height
    ribbon' (I think I read this definition in Burnhill Type Space)\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-20 09:49:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Can we assume that in perception there are scale thresholds ...</em>\r\n\r\n1.\r\n\r\nI
    don't think you can pin a scalar effect to an absolute size, unless you make sure
    that everybody reads every document at exactly the same distance.\r\n\r\nSo type
    has to work in different ways for different people, at the same size; or in the
    same way for different people at different sizes.\r\n\r\nThen there is the question
    of resolution.\r\n\r\nSo, type in a small brochure, printed high res, will be
    small and held close.\r\nType on screen will be coarse and viewed from relatively
    afar.\r\n\r\nFurthermore, it's a mistake to assume that everybody reads in the
    same way.\r\nThe old style faces have a lot of redundancy built into their design;
    that was practical, as they were shaken up and knocked about during printing,
    so had to function with bits missing, misaligned, and distorted. However, what
    is redundant for one person may be significant for another, and vice versa. \r\n\r\nSans
    serif faces have little redundancy, so, I would say, are read in more impersonal
    manner.\r\n\r\n2.\r\n\r\nAlthough the idea of \"evening out inter-character white
    space\" is a workable and useful principle, perhaps the idea of \"gravity\" would
    also work. \r\n\r\nIn other words, something to do with the relationship between
    mass and distance.\r\nSo, the gravitational attraction between two close capital
    \"I\"s, like bar magnets, is great, and will cause a warp in the fabric of text
    density, whereas two \"V\"s, separated by a similar closest-point distance, will
    have the bulk of their mass further apart, thinning the density.\r\n\r\nSo it's
    not the balancing of white space that's important, but the coarseness of the texture
    of matter, which should not be too uneven, with too much \"ink\" in the same proximity.\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-20 15:38:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David Kindersley took the view that even optical spacing, which he sought
    to automate by determining the optical centre of each letter and then spacing
    these at equal distance, should override visual proximity such that it is better
    for letters to overlap than to break the evenness of the spacing.\r\n\r\nI've
    spent enough time working with a variety of writing systems to know that this
    isn't a sound universal solution and, indeed, even for the Latin script it is
    one that works with some type styles and not with others.\r\n\r\n\u2018Perfect
    spacing\u2019 is not only design- and scale-specific, I would argue that it is
    also word-specific. Indeed, this seems the unavoidable implication of Peter's
    cross-letter binding and constructive conjunction theory: as soon as you have
    more than two letters in sequence, the relationship between every sequence of
    three letters, and hence between all the letters in the word, becomes important.
    Nick demonstrated this a while ago in context of setting all-cap headings, showing
    how an approach to spacing that worked well with one word worked much less well
    with another word.\r\n\r\nThe good news, for font developers, is that spacing
    doesn't need to be perfect in order to be readable, and the pair-spacing model
    that is the basis for most fonts is adequate. This is good news because the alternative
    is mind-bogglingly complex. I have some experience of contextual spacing for Arabic
    and Thai, and I can't recommend it as a fun way to spend a week."
  created: '2009-03-20 16:09:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> [Kindersley:] it is better for letters to overlap\r\n> than to break the
    evenness of the spacing.\r\n\r\nAlthough I don't think one can consider too much
    looseness to be as bad as touching, I firmly believe that touching shouldn't be
    shunned outright; quite often allowing things to touch makes the overall much
    better. So it's basically another factor to balance.\r\n\r\n> The good news, for
    font developers, is\r\n> that spacing doesn\u2019t need to be perfect\r\n\r\nAnd
    even better news, for everybody, is that perfection doesn't even exist.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-20 16:16:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I agree that touching shouldn't be shunned outright: it depends very much
    on what is touching what, which in turn will depend on the nature of the individual
    design. If I recall correctly, Kindersley's illustrations of overlapping letters
    used a heavy sans serif, which worked because the internal white space was minimal
    and the letters were bold enough to retain their individual identities despite
    the overlapping sides. As soon as serifs and other terminal details are in play,
    collisions become potentially messier. As a general rule, allowing two horizontal
    serifs to overlap is fine, e.g. in the sequence vy, but when terminals of different
    weights and angles collide the results can be distracting, presumably because
    they produce a non-constructive conjunction, reducing the cue value of the involved
    shapes and, indeed, the cue value of the space. This is where contextual spacing
    alternates come in handy:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gabgurney_5018.gif]"
  created: '2009-03-20 16:48:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Also where the letters touch seems to make a difference. KA or RA touching
    at the baseline seems to be less distracting than VY touching at the cap height. '
  created: '2009-03-20 17:04:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, I'm not sure I agree, mostly because I don't think \"distracting\"
    means what most of us think it means in the text realm; and a collision that's
    <em>too</em> smooth can spell trouble. A good example is in fact \"vy\", which
    can start looking too much like a \"w\" if the descenders are short. As you say
    however it depends a lot on the given design.\r\n\r\nThat said, of course in good
    type design collisions <em>are</em> managed (like where the ball of the \"f\"
    is designed to swallow up the tittle of the \"i\" in case ligation is disabled)
    instead of just letting things fall where they may.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nIn the \"gurney\"
    example I actually think the top one might be superior! The collisions aren't
    really horrible, and in the \"rn\" the greater [apparent] width of the left \"induced
    counter\" might make it less like an \"m\" overall at text sizes.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-20 17:27:55'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>like where the ball of the \u201Cf\u201D is designed to swallow up the
    tittle of the \u201Ci\u201D</em>\r\n!\r\nThanks for this.\r\n\r\nKent, I will
    still get back to the images you posted. They are tentatively beginning to suggest
    answers to my questions. But I need a bit of time.\r\n\r\nIf you guys don't mind,
    here's a somewhat tangential (but still spacing-related) question: We were discussing
    how to proceed in spacing caps in our type class today, and the general advice
    was that (at least for German) caps are much more likely to be used in mixed-case
    than all-caps settings (plus all-caps can apparently be spaced differently with
    some OT feature); so one should actually space the caps \"too tight\", i.e. space
    them vis-\xE0-vis the lowercase (which can still mean working on spacing the caps
    separately, but using the spacing \"values\" from the lowercase as a guiding model).
    Any opinions?"
  created: '2009-03-20 19:35:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The capital spacing feature in opentype is still flawed because it treats
    each space the same. Caps need much more attention.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-20 19:52:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>In the \u201Cgurney\u201D example I actually think the top one
    might be superior! The collisions aren\u2019t really horrible, and in the \u201Crn\u201D
    the greater [apparent] width of the left \u201Cinduced counter\u201D might make
    it less like an \u201Cm\u201D overall at text sizes.</em>\r\n\r\nPerhaps we have
    a resolution perception problem here: on my screen, looking at the smaller sized
    words in the image, the rn sequence in the top word comes very close to looking
    like m, because the ear of the r loses its cue value by merging with the instroke
    of the n. In the lower word, using the contextual alternates, the clear separation
    of the rn sequence, even at this size, retains the cue value of the ear of the
    r."
  created: '2009-03-20 19:52:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nina: <em>...so one should actually space the caps \u201Ctoo tight\u201D,
    i.e. space them vis-\xE0-vis the lowercase...</em>\r\n\r\nYes, definitely. Default
    spacing should always be for the most common situation, which is mixed case text.
    All-caps settings need extra attention, either at the font level (see below) or
    the application level.\r\n\r\nChris: <em>The capital spacing feature in opentype
    is still flawed because it treats each space the same. Caps need much more attention.</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    is also how tracking works within apps, though: adding a fixed amount to the advance
    width of each letter. The more fixed space that is added, whether at the font
    or application level, the greater the distortion of the relative spacing of different
    shapes.\r\n\r\nBut note that what you are describing is only how most fonts implement
    the [cpsp] feature. The feature itself isn't flawed; indeed, it is dumb and applies
    whatever lookups the developer puts in the font. One could implement the [cpsp]
    feature as a thorough re-spacing of caps, carefully adjusting the sidebearings
    of individual uppercase glyphs to provide new default spacing. However, then the
    issue becomes kerning interaction, because the [cpsp] feature may or may not be
    turned on in an application, and hence one has no way to know whether kerning
    between caps should be relative to the default sidebearings or to the [cpsp]-adjusted
    sidebearings."
  created: '2009-03-20 20:02:18'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thanks for the pointers.\r\n\r\nRegarding technicalities: Could it be possible
    to make a second set of alternate \"all-caps caps\", which would be the same lettershapes
    as the normal caps but with adjusted sidebearings, and substitute those for the
    normal caps when the, um\u2026 \"All Caps\" feature is activated?"
  created: '2009-03-20 20:09:46'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "So, John, you're saying instead of having one class with all the caps in
    it for CPSP, you could specify each letter individually, and specify how the sidebearings
    change for each one for all of the caps individually? I don't follow you on why
    the app could be confused. \r\n\r\nNina, I don't know what is best, but one way
    is to space H to work with the lower case o and i, and then to space all caps
    relative to the H. Then if kerning is off, initial caps with lowercase should
    be not catastrophic. But then you kern initial caps with all the lower case as
    needed. And then for all caps you use the CPSP to track everything out when all
    caps is on. That isn't ideal, but it's pretty good.\r\n\r\nThen again, it seems
    practically impossible to get all caps ideal, as it seems to depend on more than
    two letters as to how they should be kerned. Also the ideal kerning would vary
    with optical size. So still the user has to work on all cap titles if they are
    to look really great. \r\n\r\nSo a decent compromise is really OK in my book.
    Because the ideal seems as a practical matter impossible to get, at least with
    current technology. I think I heard that Lucas de Groot does use some triple letters
    as a basis for kerning--I'm not sure how that works. But I'm sure John knows :)
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-20 21:56:53'
- author:
    name: Pablo R
    picture: 116225
  body: "\u2026wow amazing thread!\r\n\r\n\r\nMX > BCN"
  created: '2009-03-20 22:07:57'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thanks for your comments, William.\r\n\r\n<em>\"So a decent compromise is
    really OK in my book. Because the ideal seems as a practical matter impossible
    to get, at least with current technology.\"</em>\r\n\r\nAnd I do like to assume
    that there should be a typographer/designer on the other end who knows what he's
    doing, and has eyes too. Though possibly that's too optimistic as a general statement."
  created: '2009-03-20 22:43:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "John, \"The feature itself isn\u2019t flawed; indeed, it is dumb and applies
    whatever lookups the developer puts in the font.\"\r\n\r\nI quite agree. The feature
    is what it is, a tracking feature with a single given quantity. I should have
    said instead that I feal the feature does not do what I want it to do.  I have
    abandoned using it and instead set sidebearings for caps to work best with lowercase
    (except for diagonals and letters like T and L where kerning to lowercase is always
    required). I then set positive class kerning for cap class to cap class to get
    a more respectable all cap spacing. This takes away the need for the user to turn
    on ALL CAPS even if the text is keyed in all caps--an easy oversight. Even if
    the userdecides he/she want still more space, they can track some but the problem
    will be minimized. There is not really that much added kerning doing it this way,
    typically 4 classes.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-20 22:48:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "That's a good idea Chris. Next time around...\r\n\r\nThe only issue I can
    see is if there's no kerning, which unfortunately happens, will that really mess
    up the caps? "
  created: '2009-03-20 23:08:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "No kerning always messes up caps no matter what you do.  Check how many kerns
    appear with caps compared to just lowercase and you will see what I mean.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-21 00:14:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nina: <em>Could it be possible to make a second set of alternate \u201Call-caps
    caps\u201D, which would be the same lettershapes as the normal caps but with adjusted
    sidebearings, and substitute those for the normal caps when the, um\u2026 \u201CAll
    Caps\u201D feature is activated?</em>\r\n\r\nYes, that would work, and would avoid
    the situation of uneven [cpsp] and [kern] support.\r\n\r\nBill: <em>I don\u2019t
    follow you on why the app could be confused.</em>\r\n\r\nI didn't say the app
    would be confused. What I mean is that if you use a GPOS feature to adjust the
    spacing of the caps for all-caps settings, then presumably your inter-cap kerning
    GPOS adjustments should be made relative to that adjusted spacing. But this means
    that you will only get correctly kerned call-caps <em>if the </em>[<em>cpsp</em>]<em>
    feature is applied.</em> In case you haven't noticed: this feature is only applied
    in InDesign when one explicitly selects the all-caps text setting, not when one
    simply types text in all uppercase characters, and in many other applications
    the [cpsp] feature is not supported at all.\r\n\r\nNina's suggestion gets around
    this uneven feature support issue, but it requires the developer to include two
    sets of uppercase letters, with distinct kerning for each.\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-21 02:09:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Could it be possible to make a second set of alternate \u201Call-caps caps\u201D,
    which would be the same lettershapes as the normal caps but with adjusted sidebearings,
    and substitute those for the normal caps\"\r\n\r\nNina, Remember this is ALL the
    caps including those with diacritics and all the kerning pairs that go with them.
    \r\nAs John said to Bill above, the ALL CAPS formatting feature must be selected
    (from the \"Character\" dropdown menu in InD) for this to work and it is not always
    supported by other apps or applied by the user.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-21 02:22:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I've always used Command-Shift-K for "all caps".
  created: '2009-03-21 04:59:59'
- author:
    name: daniele capo
    picture: 113718
  body: 'Why not use the kern feature to define the proper spacing of all caps text?
    You can define classes of upper case letters and apply a ''kern'' value to each
    couple (I think it makes sense: you are defining the spacing of all caps in terms
    of couple of capital letters), in that way I suppose, you have the proper spacing
    even when you actually type all caps text.'
  created: '2009-03-22 18:29:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Why not use the kern feature to define the proper spacing of all caps text?
    \r\n\r\nThat was also Chris's suggestion above, 20 March. I think it's a good
    solution, except for systems where there's no kerning. "
  created: '2009-03-22 19:01:26'
- author:
    name: daniele capo
    picture: 113718
  body: "<em>That was also Chris\u2019s suggestion above</em>\r\n\r\nI had skipped
    that comment, sorry."
  created: '2009-03-22 19:12:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"except for systems where there\u2019s no kerning.\"\r\n\r\nThose systems
    are always a problem for anything and probably are not used by the kind of folks
    who buy type.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-22 21:25:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Chris, I thought I read somewhere that many newspapers have systems that
    don't do ligatures or kerning. --And that this had something to do with systems
    in which the top priority is to place ads easily. And of course they do buy type.
    \r\n\r\nI'm pretty sure about the ligature thing, as the Washington Post doesn't
    seem to do ligatures on Matthew Carter's headline face \"Postoni\" that they use.
    But I'm not sure about the kerning; I'll have to check or someone here can tell
    us.   "
  created: '2009-03-22 22:18:42'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Could it be possible to make a second set of alternate \u201Call-caps caps\u201D,
    which would be the same lettershapes as the normal caps but with adjusted sidebearings,
    and substitute those for the normal caps\u201D\r\n\r\nPossible for sure, but once
    done, why not make caps just for caps? i.e. the appearance of all caps can improve
    somewhere from marginally to a whole lot, by having not just special spacing,
    but special forms. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-03-23 11:33:09'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"why not make caps just for caps?\"</em>\r\nWow, good point! \r\nI wonder,
    are there any fonts that do this?"
  created: '2009-03-23 11:57:57'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: 'Altaira, in the past, these were called Titling faces and were all-caps faces.
    But these were aimed toward display caps settings, not all-caps in text. You see
    a remnant of this practice in Slimbach''s Adobe Garamond Titling. '
  created: '2009-03-23 13:11:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...are there any fonts that do this?</em>\r\n\r\nEd Interlock\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-23 16:52:22'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...are there any fonts that do this?\"\r\nWe've done this as custom fonts,
    mostly for display. \r\nWith the general population nearly incapable of handling
    small caps, we keep all-caps in hiding. \r\nThe three best reasons to make them
    that I know of:\r\n1. a disparity between upper and lowercase weight or spacing.\r\n2.
    an angle issue in isolated u.c. italics, like A, M or V.\r\n3 a design with more
    classical U.C. proportions is desired, and the l.c. has a large x-ht. \r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-23 17:59:15'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thanks for the feedback. Seems to make sense to favor this in display settings
    &ndash; I can't really think of many all-caps settings in text, hmm\u2026\r\n\r\n<em>\"Ed
    Interlock\"</em>\r\nOh thanks, I've been meaning to find out what that is for
    a while :-)"
  created: '2009-03-23 18:50:34'
date: '2009-03-18 13:22:26'
title: Perception and scaling of inter-letter space

---
