---
author:
  name: hrant
  picture: 110403
body: "Motivated by the honorable commitment on the part of MyFonts to remove fonts
  in their library that are plagiarized from other designs*, I would like to propose
  launching a concerted effort to purge MyFonts of such typefaces. I feel that this
  would be a great cultural service, as well as provide indirect financial support
  to scrupulous font designers in the long term. As such, foundries registered with
  MyFonts would be the main participants of this effort, although of course any qualified
  person should consider it.\r\n\r\n* http://typophile.com/node/55966\r\n\r\nNeedless
  to say this should absolutely not become a witch-hunt, and we need to remain realistic.
  MyFonts is the referee, whose final decision cannot be contested; and we cannot
  use this opportunity to try to remove fonts simply because we think they're not
  well-made. Our only role would be to amplify the ability of MyFonts do its house-cleaning,
  to make it even better than it already is.\r\n\r\nThe question is, how do we organize
  such a \"committee\"?\r\n\r\nMy suggestion would be to:\r\n1) Compile a list of
  willing volunteers, using this thread.\r\n2) Implement an intelligent but fair mechanism
  of excluding saboteurs from volunteering.\r\n3) Get a list from MyFonts of the alphabetic
  distribution of font quantities.\r\n4) Assign the workload alphabetically to the
  volunteers.\r\n5) Give the volunteers plenty of time (but still have some sort of
  deadline).\r\n6) Require that the volunteers submit work-in-progress to the committee.\r\n\r\nIn
  the end, the committee would hand over a list\r\nof fonts to MyFonts, and then promptly
  disband.\r\n\r\nPlease let me know what you think, and if you'd like to volunteer.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: ">>In the end, the committee would hand over a list of fonts to MyFonts, and
    then promptly disband.\r\n\r\nIsn't that similar to what is said during every
    military coup?\r\n\r\nRegardless...\r\n\r\nIn your great \"purge\", how would
    people get access to the outlines, which IMO is the only concrete way to make
    sure that a typeface is unique?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-18 19:28:49'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: I find Adam's suggestion (send an email to MyFonts) easier to pursue. Don't
    you think the committee idea is a tad too democratic or communistic for a monarchist?  ;-)
  created: '2009-03-18 20:16:39'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Well, Dan, I think that in Stalin's day, a simple call to the local commissar
    did the trick. \r\n\r\nIf it looks suspiciously like somebody else's work, you
    can report it to MyFonts's & and their equivalent of the NKGB can get on the case.
    \r\n\r\nIs there a Siberia in Fontland? \r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2009-03-18 20:32:09'
- author:
    name: mehallo
    picture: 109684
  body: "Sounds really dangerous to me.\r\n\r\nGood idea, but really easy to abuse.\r\n\r\nAnd
    since I teach design history, which includes some wonderful examples of things
    like this that have gone horribly, horribly wrong (the career of ernst deutsch
    comes to mind; and of course, the degenerate art exhibit as an extreme example)
    \r\n\r\nHow 'bout using the What The Font technology to simply look for similar
    strokes to existing digital types in their library (and others) - and go from
    there. \r\n\r\nAnd one thing about their contract is there is VERY STRONG language
    about copying existing fonts and posting them as your own. (At least that's what
    I remember signing, I'd have to go dig it up)\r\n\r\ns."
  created: '2009-03-18 20:34:37'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: This can only go horribly wrong.
  created: '2009-03-18 20:53:09'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Of course the people involved in this would need to be secretive about their
    suspicions before MyFonts decides \"who to free and who to blame\". \r\nBut I
    think some are overplaying the Great Danger here. Note point 2 in Hrant's post
    (which does sound like he's planning a guerrilla war of sorts, but also shows
    a good dash of prudence), and that the goal of this is stated as making *recommendations*
    to MyFonts &ndash; not going out on the streets at night and blindly massacre
    unsuspecting type designers who might be forging stuff.\r\n\r\nThat said, I also
    doubt the idea, while honorable, is actually practicable. For one thing, I wonder
    about the actual methodology of spotting the culprits. Dan makes a good objection,
    to start with. I worry that it sounds a bit too good/idealistic to be workable."
  created: '2009-03-18 21:22:58'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: I will say this however, "The Great MyFonts Purge of 2009" has a certain ring
    to it. Is that destiny I hear calling?
  created: '2009-03-18 21:25:47'
- author:
    name: Stephen Rapp
    picture: 111901
  body: "What would the criteria be for \"plagiarized\"?\r\n\r\nThere are designs
    that are based on another's work, but digitized from scans rather than direct
    software copying. I know of one instance where work was scanned directly out of
    a lettering artist's instructional book (despite protests) and made into a fairly
    popular font."
  created: '2009-03-18 21:52:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> how would people get access to the outlines\r\n\r\nThat's something MyFonts
    would do (as Adam says he's done before) as a \"stage 2\". BTW, I personally don't
    think plagiarism is limited to swiping outlines; for example if somebody makes
    an Industria copy from scratch, I would think it should be removed (even though
    it's not illegal, at least not in the US).\r\n\r\n> really easy to abuse.\r\n\r\nThe
    saving grace is that the decision remains with MyFonts. All we would be doing
    is bringing things to their attention. And the reason this makes sense is because:
    there are so many fonts in their library; and many eyes are better than a few.
    In fact I see this as a continuous process (I mean even with existing fonts, not
    new ones) with repetitive iterations slowly weeding out problem fonts; a person
    who did the \"P\" fonts could take on the \"Q\" fonts afterwards, and find something
    the first \"Q\" screener missed. Waiting in your dentist's lobby? Instead of playing
    that dumb iPhone game, make yourself useful!  :-)\r\n\r\n> I find Adam\u2019s
    suggestion (send an email to MyFonts) easier to pursue.\r\n\r\nThis is basically
    a scaled-up, organized version of that.\r\n\r\n> What would the criteria be for
    \u201Cplagiarized\u201D?\r\n\r\nThat's a good question. But again, the criteria
    remain within MyFonts. Guidance from MyFonts would certainly help align our work
    with their \"actionability\".\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBasically, it doesn't make sense
    to say: \"It's not fair, because without your help MyFonts would never have caught
    that font.\"\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nWhat I'm picturing is neither self-righteous nor
    highly robust. I see it basically as a way to provide free manpower to MyFonts,
    our collective culture, and each other.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-18 22:43:57'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: Now, that Magazine Scout Task Force idea sounds cool. That sounds like a blog
    idea. I'd contribute to that.
  created: '2009-03-18 22:44:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "{An edit brought this down one spot.}\r\n\r\nBTW, I once had the similar
    -if less thorny- idea of having a Magazine Scout Task Force or something: a group
    of people where each person has the responsibility of scouring a given design
    magazine each issue, and reporting what type-related stuff it has to all interested.
    I thought of that simply as an efficiency too: I was spending too much time fishing
    for and looking through design magazines every stinkin' month for something interesting.
    Now, because that \"task force\" was not formed, I've had to stop looking almost
    completely.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-18 22:45:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Don\u2019t you think the committee idea is a tad too democratic or communistic
    for a monarchist? \"\r\n\r\nLOL!!! funniest post of the day!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-18 22:47:17'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: A Committee of Font Safety. Hmmm. Let's dust off the Guillemet and lop off
    some serifs, terminals, and bowls.
  created: '2009-03-18 22:50:23'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "couldn't myfonts simply have some sort of built-in reporting on each font?\r\n\r\nso
    as i'm searching, i see a font that i think looks stolen from somewhere else,
    so i simply click the 'report this font' button and write a brief message to myfonts
    explaining my concern.\r\n\r\nalso, how would you handle the historically situation
    of fonts like Helvetica where there are numerous legal 'copies' by well-established
    foundries?\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-18 23:47:46'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>And since I teach design history, which includes some wonderful examples
    of things like this that have gone horribly, horribly wrong</em>\r\n\r\nSecret
    tribunals, anyone?\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/BattlestarGalactica_--_3x05_-_Collaborators_4654.jpg]"
  created: '2009-03-19 00:01:56'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>also, how would you handle the historically situation of fonts like Helvetica
    where there are numerous legal \u2019copies\u2019 by well-established foundries?</em>\r\n\r\nWell,
    those wouldn't fall under scrutiny, I suppose. But there are plenty of \"revivals\"
    of typefaces that are given completely different names. What about those?"
  created: '2009-03-19 00:04:11'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "ricardo said:\r\n>   Secret tribunals, anyone?\r\n\r\ni'm new here, so i
    can pretend i don't know \r\nyou've all seen this a million times already...\r\n\r\n>
    \  http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i3k5oY9AHHM\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-19 01:25:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Simon, I actually presented that idea in that other thread,\r\nalthough I
    thought it would make sense to restrict the\r\nfeedback source to registered foundries.\r\n\r\nGuys,
    cut the sinister angle eh?  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-19 03:40:47'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Well, Hrant, honestly, why should we purge MyFonts at all? Are they worried
    and want our help?\r\n\r\nIs the zeal itself not a worry? Nothing better to do,
    pehaps?"
  created: '2009-03-19 05:46:06'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'I have found that sending an email to MyFonts is the better choice. '
  created: '2009-03-19 06:07:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Honestly I don't know how badly \"infected\" MyFonts is - maybe the problem
    is minimal. But I have to think that if it was minimal they would have said so
    in the other thread; instead they expressed their encouraging desire to make/keep
    MyFonts clean, with people like Adam apparently previously spending a good amount
    of time checking stuff out. And I think the reason is simple: it's something reputable
    signatories to the MyFonts contract consider added value.\r\n\r\nTiffany, this
    <em>is</em> sending an email to MyFonts. Just a large one that's a result of a
    concerted effort, instead of a group of headless chickens randomly running into
    stuff, and not even knowing the criteria that MyFonts would use to take their
    alert seriously or not.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nUpdate:\r\nI just read in that other
    thread Mike telling me that \"you overstate the frequency of plagiaristic fonts
    appearing on MyFonts.\" So maybe this would be wasted effort after all. On the
    other hand, from the rest of Mike's post in that thread I have to think that what
    I consider a good definition of \"plagiarism\" is broader than his, and by extension
    presumably that of MyFonts. But that's a MyFonts matter, so a better course of
    action right now might be to convince them to broaden their definition!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-19 15:55:36'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Actually, I think someone did say the problem isn't that big in the other
    thread.\r\n\r\n> <em>so as i\u2019m searching, i see a font that i think looks
    stolen from somewhere else, so i simply click the \u2019report this font\u2019
    button and write a brief message to myfonts explaining my concern.</em>\r\n\r\nUnfortunately
    such an option never really works. It gets abused very quickly."
  created: '2009-03-20 04:03:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Did you read my \"Update\"?\r\nI made that edit over 12 hours before your
    post.\r\n\r\n> Unfortunately such an option never really works.\r\n> It gets abused
    very quickly.\r\n\r\nReally? Remember, only MyFonts makes the decision (and if
    they err it would probably be on the side of keeping the font). All third parties
    are doing is raising flags. Practically, the MyFonts \"engine\" could pass along
    a font to a human for possible purging only after it gets multiple flags.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-20 04:13:43'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>I made that edit over 12 hours before your post.</em>\r\n\r\nOh right,
    this board is too confusing with posts jumping all over the place when someone
    edits them. I wonder why that hasn't been fixed yet, it's quite annoying.\r\n\r\n>
    <em>Really? Remember, only MyFonts makes the decision (and if they err it would
    probably be on the side of keeping the font).</em>\r\n\r\nI understand, but there
    will always be childish people who organize something so that a gang of people
    click the 'report this' button."
  created: '2009-03-20 18:46:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> this board is too confusing with posts jumping\r\n> all over the place
    when someone edits them.\r\n\r\nAgreed wholeheartedly.\r\nBut that's not what
    happened in this case. I remember making the edit minutes after the original post,
    and furthermore the order of the posts was not affected. BTW, if an edit renders
    the order confusing I add a short caveat to that effect, at the top.\r\n\r\nIt's
    a good idea to read posts in their entirety before replying, instead of simply
    reacting to the first juicy thing one runs into and ignoring the rest, the latter
    approach being indicative of a greater desire to talk than to listen. In cases
    of lack of time/desire, it's useful to start off by stating that not all had been
    read.\r\n\r\nAll this is motivated by the desire for clear and gracious communication.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-20 19:06:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Sherman
    picture: 112002
  body: "Hrant (and everyone else),\r\n\r\nIt's great to see that so many people are
    interested in making MyFonts even better! As I stated in the other thread, we
    encourage people to report anything they see on the site they think is plagiaristic.
    However, I wouldn't say we're at all worried or think that plagiaristic fonts
    are currently a problem.\r\n\r\nThe specialized \"report this font\" feature is
    interesting, but to be honest, email is still probably the most useful for us.
    It allows people to fully describe their concerns and requires no extra design,
    development, or implementation time (the cost of which would detract from other
    things we could be doing to more effectively help our foundries sell their fonts).
    I would hope that if someone thought a font was plagiaristic, they would take
    the time to quickly open a new email, drop the URL in and describe their concerns.\r\n\r\nWe
    obviously couldn't stop people if they wanted to make an organized effort to sift
    through the tens of thousands of fonts on the site looking for rip-offs\u2026
    but in all honesty I don't think it would turn much up. We've taken our own efforts
    to eliminate plagiaristic material from the site quite seriously and I'm confident
    that very little has slipped through the proverbial cracks.\r\n\r\nBut, by all
    means, if anyone thinks I'm totally wrong and that the site is indeed riddled
    with plagiaristic fonts, please let us know by sending an email with your examples
    and we will be happy to investigate."
  created: '2009-03-20 20:20:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, thank you for the considered response.\r\n\r\nMaybe I'll do a judicious
    sampling and see if the proportion\r\nof plagiarism is in fact worrisome. The
    only problem is I'm\r\nnot an accomplished font hound - there are at least a dozen\r\npeople
    much more qualified for such a scouting mission.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-20 20:50:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The few times I have seen potential rip-offs mentioned here on Typophile,
    they have been very quickly dealt with and removed by MyFonts (and other vendors
    as well). Granted, there are plenty of revivals of old classic faces around but
    I have not heard of real pirated stuff except on free sites. The bigger issue
    seems to be user to user donation rather than reputable sites selling stolen work.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-20 22:35:37'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>It\u2019s a good idea to read posts in their entirety before replying</em>\r\n\r\nYou're
    absolutely right. My bad."
  created: '2009-03-21 00:19:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://spiekermann.com/en/rip-off-explained/\r\nSilkstone has been quickly
    removed. But Erik is a big name...\r\n\r\nYou want to make MyFonts more hospitable
    to reputable\r\nfoundries, big or small? Don't be afraid of activism.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-19 20:21:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "This should not be on MyFonts:\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/softmaker/columbia-serial/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-20 18:09:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: You mean Optimaoff?
  created: '2012-11-20 19:31:24'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I'm just surprised it even <em>exists</em>. I mean, there's Zapf Humanist
    and Ottawa, if you want to buy an imitation cheap (through getting an old version
    of Corel Draw)... and, more importantly, there's MgOpen Cosmetica.\r\n\r\nSo if
    you're prepared to pay <em>real money</em> for Optima, I presume you would want
    the real thing."
  created: '2012-11-21 02:48:17'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "There is a song in there:\r\n\"Even better than the real thing\""
  created: '2012-11-21 14:59:24'
- author:
    name: Luma Vine
    picture: 120078
  body: Maybe if you need a slightly higher x-height?
  created: '2012-11-21 17:04:31'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "The problem, already profusely debated, is isn't specific to http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/softmaker/columbia-serial/\r\nIt's
    more generally related to http://www.myfonts.com/foundry/SoftMaker/"
  created: '2012-12-05 09:59:56'
- author:
    name: oobimichael
    picture: 126015
  body: "My background is moral philosophy, and I'm trying to get my head/heart wrapped
    around the issue of this thread... there seem to be various 'streams' here, such
    as:\r\n\r\n1. Long-standing, historical, and institutional manipulations by large
    foundries (the multiple iterations and plundering of Linotype assets, the non-disguised
    Softmaker mass-theft, etc.). Perhaps I am unlearned in these matters, but it seems
    that this historical/institutional manipulation has gone largely unpunished...
    indeed... it seems to reverberate throughout various generations without a great
    deal of fanfare...\r\n\r\n1a. To take Avant Garde as an example, I'm still confused
    why the ITC release contains all the cool alternate characters, whereas the Adobe
    release of \"ITC Avant Garde\" does not... is there revenue sharing going on,
    or not? Why offer differing releases of the same typeface?\r\n\r\n2. The world
    of typography (even though the internet and other technologies have allowed for
    significant growth) is still a smallish world, and the politics of the players
    in this smallish world are human and prone to human frailties... such as recently
    witnessed in the case where Latinotype voluntarily withdrew a typeface:\r\n\r\nDear
    friends of Latinotype,\r\n\r\nWe feel it is a duty to inform you that we have
    removed the last typography published by Latinotype; \"Bon Apettite\" of Coto
    Mendoza.\r\n\r\nThe reasons for this decision are the similarities of \"Bon Appetit\"
    with the font of Sudtipos \"Lady Rene\", along with respect and admiration we
    have for the designer Laura Varsky, we assume that \"Bon Appetit\" has formal
    and stylistic similarities with Lady Ren\xE9 .\r\n\r\nWe consider relevant assume
    our responsibility as foundry in our lack of rigor in the review of proposals
    with which we work with respect to those in the market; we ask\r\napologies to
    Sudtipos and to Laura. We made this decision the same day he introduced us comment.\r\n\r\nAs
    a proposed solution company we are willing to recognize this fact a great opportunity
    for growth and improvement in our procedures in working with type designers from
    Latin America.\r\n\r\nMichael, Daniel and Luciano\r\nLatinotype Team. \r\n\r\nNow,
    I am NOT a typographical expert, but most would admit that it is a real challenge
    to quantify that these two typeface are remotely similar to each other. Thus,
    it seems that politics, bad blood, or whatever you might call it, is simmering
    in this soup... and it is this human component that sometimes drives designers
    to \"call foul\"... I, for one, would not like to take responsibility to referee
    these tangled webs !!\r\n\r\nAnd, finally, 3: There seems to be almost a daily
    design of a new sans-serif typeface... and although it is laudable that people
    are creative... at some point, the tragedy of the commons kicks in... (and this
    is a pet complaint of mine: most of the new typefaces are simple affairs, not
    easily usable in professional settings which require condensed, compressed, narrow,
    variations, etc...)... I'm not sure what real benefit it is to go after all these
    \"minor\" offerings of a new sans-serif or other cute thing... their impact on
    typographical history will most likely be short-lived... so why go through all
    the effort to form committees, etc.?\r\n\r\nHmmm.. that should be a bit more than
    2 cents worth... \r\n"
  created: '2012-12-05 14:17:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The tragedy of the commons related to \uFB01nite resources.\r\nThis is the
    digital era, where the quantity of type designers does not limit and diminish
    what is possible, but rather enhances it. Long Tail culture.\r\n\r\nIMO the proliferation
    of foundries, each with its own version of the generic styles, subtly evolving
    in the marketplace, is to be lauded.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-05 19:42:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://www.myfonts.com/foundry/Elemeno/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-19 18:00:47'
date: '2009-03-18 19:20:27'
title: The Great MyFonts Purge of 2009

---
