---
author:
  name: Sindre
  picture: 116197
body: "This is my second attempt at typeface-drawing. I have no typographical education,
  so this is a didactic project rather than a typeface intended for actual use \u2013
  I'm just trying to learn the basics of type design through self-study and experimentation.
  That's why I've chosen the renaissance model for the letters, and that's why this
  is intentionally not a very original design \u2013 and probably a very untrendy
  one.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/schola_5204.jpg]\r\nIt's a very constructed
  typeface, the proportions of the O and the o are used as a template for almost everything,
  except for the numerals, which are built from the lower and upper case zeros. (The
  lining numerals are intentionally upper case in height, I know this is wrong, but
  I want them to be used exlusively with upper case, not as tabular figures.)  \r\n
  \r\nThis typeface is intended for nine or ten points, I will make several versions
  adjusted for larger sizes (and probably one smaller size) when I'm done with this
  base design. No small caps yet, and I've just started drawing the italics. That's
  ... difficult.\r\n\r\nI'd be very grateful for any kind of criticism. I really want
  to learn."
comments:
- author:
    name: satwik
  body: "Hi\r\nI think its a really great effort. Its very inspiring for others like
    me who have no formal typographic training. I am only a little concerned about
    the y. It would probably blend in a sentence with a single y descender like many
    but might stick out in a sentence which has typography, for instance.\r\nI have
    probably thought through that. If you did, do tell me why!"
  created: '2009-03-19 06:26:48'
- author:
    name: satwik
  body: "sorry i forgot to enclose many and typography in quotes!\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-19 06:27:33'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: Thank you for your kind and encouraging words, Satwik. Yes, I think you're
    right about the y, the descender is too fat and slightly too long, and perhaps
    out of tune with the other descenders. I will post a revised glyph as soon as
    possible.
  created: '2009-03-19 10:07:36'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/yandnumerals_3678.jpg]\r\nNew y, follewed
    by the old one for comparison. Also, revised lc numerals, they were just too weird,
    especially the 3 and 5. "
  created: '2009-03-19 17:19:25'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: I think both y's work. The new version might blend in better, it's weight
    is probably more in line with the other letters. But I think it did lose some
    of it's character.
  created: '2009-03-19 17:24:19'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thanks for commenting, Quincunx. Yes, I took too much off that y, so I've
    made this compromise. The larger fonts will of course have longer descenders and
    ascenders, so I will use a more angular and muscular y descender for them. \r\nAm
    I getting closer, do you think? Do you see other glyphs that need more work?    \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/typology_3480.jpg]"
  created: '2009-03-19 18:05:19'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Well, I would routinely go through all your characters, and check the curves.
    They are slightly bumpy here and there, like in the g (counter). The last y does
    look better than the one you initially made as a toned down version of the first
    one. \r\n\r\nI also think the serifs might be a bit short? They are sufficiently
    thick, but they're not really pronounced. It's a question of course whether or
    not you <em>want</em> them to be pronounced, but it's something to think about.
    \r\n\r\nAnd is this a regular weight? If so, I think it's too heavy. It looks
    a bit like a medium or something like that."
  created: '2009-03-20 03:49:56'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Yes, that g has been a headache. I'll make a revision as soon as I'm home
    from work. \r\n\r\nThe serifs are intentionally rather short, I think that's appropriate
    for a typeface in this style. Van den Velde's English No.28, scanned by John Hudson
    in [[http://typophile.com/node/8800|this post]] was my initial inspiration, but
    I realise I've made my serifs even shorter. Perhaps they need a few more units,
    I'll make some tests. Do you think I should make the ascender serifs more uniform,
    by the way?  \r\n\r\nAbout the darkness: Yes, this is supposed to be the regular
    weight, I don't think there will be any other weights. I'm going for Dutch style
    darkness, like the beautiful but ridiculously expensive [[http://www.teff.nl/fonts/renard/|Renard]]
    from Ensched\xE9. Also, my typeface is intended for use at eight, nine or ten
    points, I'm going to make lighter, tighter and more refined versions for larger
    sizes.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-20 08:16:28'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Just to explain my point about the darkness further, here's a very quick
    mock-up (done in Illustrator) of the 12-point cut of my typeface. This is very
    unpolished, and serves only as a rough illustration.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/opticalsize_4165.jpg]"
  created: '2009-03-20 11:23:05'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "And here's a new g (and gj-ligature, makes Norwegian look better), and a
    new e.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/g_5766.png]"
  created: '2009-03-20 16:22:19'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "I love it. I wouldn't worry too much about the bumpiness of the outlines
    - in this case, I think they add to the character of the face. Zeno was similar
    in this way.\r\n\r\nSome detailed thoughts, which you can take or leave.\r\n\r\nI
    think the tail of the 'a' comes up too close to the main stem. That tends to look
    okay up close, but in very small sizes it gets muddy. The 'c' is top-heavy - it's
    okay for it to lean forward a bit (that's true to the Jenson/Aldus/Garamond model),
    but I think the tail could come out a little more. I think the center stroke of
    the 's' could be less vertical (the capital doesn't have this problem). Also take
    another look at Jenson's original here - he thins it slightly in the center, so
    it's not a fat blob. The left serif of the 'u' could be heavier (and also, in
    the traditional model, more horizontal - it doesn't match the 'n'). Your 'z's
    have inconsistent chirography - in the lowercase, it looks like you've tried to
    follow the pen, but in the uppercase, the more traditional weight distribution.
    I would choose one or the other, likely the latter.\r\n\r\nI want to see some
    text settings to see how the short serifs on vwx work out. When paired with rounds
    (vo etc) they might create too much openness, but perhaps kerning can help with
    that.\r\n\r\nSerifs on 'EF' look heavy to me, and don't really fit with the rest
    of the font (I see you've done something more delicate with 'Z'). Why the spur
    on the 'J'? Center point of 'M' seems too far to the right. Bottom of 'U' is too
    round, I'd have just a little more straight (especially noticeable on the right).\r\n\r\n3
    leans a bit to the left. I find the open 8 distracting. Ampersand is not quite
    as delicious as the rest of the font - I don't really like the long straight diagonal.
    Traditional '@' construction is thin on the right side curve. I'd put a little
    more weight on the curly brace. Question mark has a nice shape but looks too soft
    and low-fi - maybe just a bit more stroke contrast.\r\n\r\nI'm seeing lots of
    good attention to detail here - I think it'll be a great font when it's finished."
  created: '2009-03-20 16:58:32'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Wow, thank you very much for your very detailed feedback, Raph. Something
    like this is exactly what I was hoping for. I don't yet have enough typographical
    routine or theoretical knowledge to see my own mistakes -- and having worked on
    this for more than three weeks, I'm starting to feel a little type-blind. \r\n\r\nI
    will use your advice and make some major revisions to my typeface, but I really
    need to let it rest for a day or so, having spent every waking hour when not at
    work on this. Drawing type is turning into an obsession, really. I know now I
    can never live without it, and I curse the years wasted on not drawing glyphs.
    :-)\r\n\r\nThanks again! "
  created: '2009-03-20 17:32:33'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Your z is very special! :)\r\n\r\nAnd what a nice hyphen too. \r\n\r\nW and
    perhaps V and X look a bit light. M looks on the narrow side, maybe. I'm not great
    at knowing 'ideal' proportions so that's just my taste. Actually I would knock
    the outside legs outwards rather than having them vertical. \r\n\r\nI love the
    ampersand, and the question mark makes me smile. (It looks like toothpaste)"
  created: '2009-03-21 10:38:29'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thank you very much for your feedback, Bendy! You're right, I've fattened
    up the V, W and X (slightly), and I do think they look better now. I've also made
    slanted legs for the M, and tweaked its proportions a bit, as you can see. I've
    done some minor changes to the question mark, following Raph's advice, but I've
    retained its \"toothpastey\" quality. \r\n\r\nRaph, thanks again for your invaluable
    assistance, I've followed most of your suggestions, as you can see. I've made
    a more conventional ampersand, but I've kept the other one as an alternative glyph.
    I'm not sure I understood what you meant regarding the at sign, but I've fattened
    up the SW curve. Does it look better to you? \r\n\r\nAbout that strange J: I saw
    that glyph in a dream, and I thought I'd try it. Obviously, the spur is related
    to that wonderfully weird trademark l in the [[http://www.opto.fr/resources/romain-du-roi-epreuve-des-caracteres-de-imprimerie-royale-1760|Romain
    du Roi]]. I'll keep it as an alternative glyph, and make a normal J for use in
    the waking world. \r\n\r\nI think I'll keep that fat lowercase z, it's probably
    my favourite glyph. For some reason, I like the z to stand out a little in a typeface.
    I'm not really satisfied with the upper case Z, though.    \r\n\r\nI've added
    a pdf showing the altered glyphs to the original post.\r\n\r\nI'll upload some
    text setting examples later today.\r\n\r\n \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/schola_210309_mod_6067.png]"
  created: '2009-03-21 12:27:19'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: I've attached text set in several languages to the first post. I've auto-hinted
    the font, but it looks <em>way</em> off. I'm probably doing something wrong. Sigh.
    There's a lot to learn.
  created: '2009-03-21 15:29:06'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Ah, thanks for the clarification about the weight. The 12-point-cut looks
    quite right with regards to weight as a 'regular'.
  created: '2009-03-21 15:32:35'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: 'Thanks, Quinqunx. I''m a great believer in optical scaling, I think it''s
    a shame that so few typefaces featuring this is available, and most of them have
    only a text and a display version. For scholarly work, I think it''s very important
    having a seperat cut intended for footnotes, all too often they are hard and uninspiring
    to read, being to tight and sharp and light of colour, compared to the body copy.
    There''s a huge difference between type intended for eight points and ten points.
    Also, I think the serif length question you brought up will be solved, they will
    become more pronounced in the larger optical sizes, as you can see in the 12-point
    mock-up.  '
  created: '2009-03-21 15:49:09'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: Er, by the way, about the text settings I've uploaded, the spacing and kerning
    are still very preliminary, I really haven't had time to work properly on it.
    Having never seriously done such work before, I'm prepared to spend horrendous
    amounts of time on the job. Any spacing and kerning tips are extremely welcome.
    So far, I feel like stumbling in the dark.
  created: '2009-03-21 15:56:01'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "The closed 8 looks better. I love these figures - awesome.\r\n\r\nIs the
    terminal at the top of 'c' too heavy?\r\n\r\nThe relationship between counters
    in the ampersand looks distractingly off to me, and my eye catches on the corner
    on the left side of the top one."
  created: '2009-03-21 18:05:05'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: 'Thanks! I''ve been uncertain if the numerals were any good, so it''s great
    to know someone likes them. They''re probably ruining the historical accuracy
    of the typeface, but who cares. These are post-postmodern times, or something.
    Yes, the c terminal is heavy, I want some "hot spots" in the text, you see, not
    the even grayness of the ideal renaissance face. But perhaps it needs a couple
    of units less, I''ll think about it. '
  created: '2009-03-21 18:08:16'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I'm really enjoying looking at this! :) It's really good!\r\n\r\nHave you
    tried the Z with the same contrast as z? I think it works really well for the
    lowercase one."
  created: '2009-03-21 18:45:55'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>Also, I think the serif length question you brought up will be solved,
    they will become more pronounced in the larger optical sizes, as you can see in
    the 12-point mock-up.</em>\r\n\r\nYep, I saw it. Although I must say that I'm
    not too bothered with the short serifs anymore, now I've taken a better look at
    it. I guess you get used to it. I had also been looking at very prominent serifs
    of a design I'm working on myself, so the contrast was rather large. :)\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-21 19:14:54'
- author:
    name: mehallo
    picture: 109684
  body: "(Just had to tweet you - I love where you're going with this) \r\nhttp://www.twitter.com/mehallo\r\n\r\n:)"
  created: '2009-03-21 20:29:49'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: Thanks, Mehallo. This resulted in me opening a Twitter account.
  created: '2009-03-21 20:50:17'
- author:
    name: mehallo
    picture: 109684
  body: ;)
  created: '2009-03-21 20:59:06'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'I was also thinking of suggesting what you just [[http://typophile.com/node/55891|suggested
    to Bendy]]: that your M middle vertex might inch a little leftward. Alternatively
    (and maybe preferably) you could move the top left vertex a good bit rightward:
    I can see this font working well with a left M leg kicked out asymmetrically,
    and that would reduce the top counter which reads to me as maybe too large.'
  created: '2009-03-21 21:04:34'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/MZ2_5261.png]\r\nNew M drawn after Eliason's
    advice, and new Z following Bendy's suggestion. I feel <em>really</em> type-blind
    now after too much continuos work, so you really have to tell me if this is all
    wrong, guys. Thanks!\r\n\r\nEdit: Okay, that Z was too fat. I replaced the image
    with a saner version."
  created: '2009-03-21 21:40:05'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Relationship of counters is working beautifully in M now.\r\nThat Z is a
    no from me though. Did you try one way serifs (like the base of 2)? "
  created: '2009-03-21 21:44:40'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I think Craig's right. That's a lovely Z but perhaps draws too much attention
    with all those angled serifs. I love the thin spine. I think it works better with
    lowercase as it's a bit more lyrical than the other caps. \r\n\r\nM works excellently
    too. This is really really pleasant. "
  created: '2009-03-21 21:59:59'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "I can't seem to make the thin spine version work without double serifs. Here's
    a single serifed version with opposite weight distribution. I think it works rather
    well, though it changes the mood completely. What do you think?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/zuma_4504.png]"
  created: '2009-03-21 22:14:38'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: 'That may be the only possible solution. It looks like it fits well with the
    other caps. I''d include the other one as an alternate. '
  created: '2009-03-21 22:49:52'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Major update. New pdf attached. All glyphs a--z, A--Z, oldstyle 0--9, the
    question mark, the exclamation mark, the at sign and the ampersand are altered
    since the first pdf. I'm working on the Greek lower case at the moment, great
    fun, though very challenging for a [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Barbarian|Barbarian]].
    I keep reminding myself that Eudald Pradell, that great Catalan Fleischmann-imitator,
    could not read at all. \r\n\r\nI'm <I>very</I> grateful for all the great criticism
    you've all given me, it has been a great motivation in this work, and I hope you'll
    keep it up. This typeface is barely begun ...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/schola_220309_update_4518.png]"
  created: '2009-03-22 12:46:06'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "This is fantastic work. \r\n\r\na - should the tail end in a short segment
    like the serifs?\r\nf - maybe extend the foot serif rightward to try to keep up
    with the reaching hook?\r\nk - arm looks a little weak - would it make any sense
    to emulate your foot serifs (with the straighter right sides) there?\r\nx - outsides
    of the / stroke look bare at the ends. Maybe a hint of serif on that side, or
    maybe just flare them like you did the upper right of 'y'?\r\noldstyle zero -
    looks light\r\nH - looks awfully wide!\r\nJ - I trust you'll have a notchless
    option!\r\nK - arm a little too spindly?\r\nQ - tail looks very strange to me
    but they often do in this type of face. Have you played with other structures?\r\nT
    - segmented underside of crossbar looks a little weird to me. (Sorry that's not
    much help)\r\nsection - looks out of character for the font\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-22 13:27:40'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "... and this is fantastic feedback. Thanks! \r\n\r\na: Er, could you elaborate?
    I'm not sure if I understand quite what you mean.\r\nf: Definitely. Consider it
    done. \r\nk: Perhaps. That k cost me a lot of worries earlier, and I've sort of
    forgot about it. I'll give it a go. \r\nx: I think you're right, I'll make a suggestion
    or two.\r\nH: I believe the width it correct after the Renaissance model, but
    yes, it's too wide. I've already made a slimmer version.\r\nJ: No way! This is
    the typeface of the notched J! :-)\r\nK: Yes, a little. Do you think the Y and
    X arms are thin, too? Verticals are difficult to get just right, two units to
    much or too little often overthrows the balance.\r\nQ: I tried a two-stroke variant,
    sort of like a huge mirrored 9, but I couldn't make it work. But it'll be easy
    making an alternative one with a shorter hook. Er, I think I've got one in the
    mask layer already.\r\nT: Yes! That T has been a nightmare! As I've made a rule
    of no curves on stems, serifs and crossbars, it's awfully hard to pull off. Any
    suggestions, anyone?\r\n\r\nI'll post some progression images in an hour or two.
    Gotta get some food now, before I implode of hunger.\r\n "
  created: '2009-03-22 14:23:45'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Er, yes, that section mark <em>is</em> weird. It's actually a stylised square
    sail on a mast ending in a hook. (I'm a great fan of [[http://no.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fil:Seilende_nordlandsb%C3%A5ter.JPG|traditional
    Norwegian boats]], still built and sailed here after several thousand years of
    unbroken tradition, you see.) \r\n\r\nHave you looked at the pdf with the text-settings?
    I use it a lot there, and I think it works. I might be wrong, though. Do you think
    I should go for the older C-type sign, if I should make a new one? "
  created: '2009-03-22 14:39:48'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Sorry, no, I absolutely love that sail glyph - I was referring to the one
    just left of it on the latest pdf, the one that looks like a hollowed-out S.\r\n\r\nY
    and X thins work for me - it's just the K that's too thin to my eyes.\r\n\r\nre:
    the a tail. Looking up close I realize this is not the way it's drawn, but from
    afar it looks like a curl leading to a single point. I think it might look more
    fitting to terminate it in a small perpendicular snip (something like the top
    of 'q''s stroke - or see the end of R's leg). \r\n\r\nNew comment: in the lining
    figures, nine (and maybe seven) tip rightward and three tips leftward - I'd consider
    making those more upright (but don't touch the oldstyle versions).\r\n\r\nAnd:
    on the ampersand, it looks to me like the thin stroke enters that upper intersection
    higher than where it comes out on the left."
  created: '2009-03-22 15:03:00'
- author:
    name: juhani
  body: "The question mark (old & new) caught my eye too. The supple elementary shape
    combined with a soft brush-like character makes it look a bit less formal than
    the other glyphs. (The paragraph mark & '@' are in the same vein, & also the top
    of the '5' and the descender of the 'y'.) The asterisk, the daggers and the ampersand,
    for example, are more rigid & formal in character. This could be an interesting
    contrast, of course, but should be applied more systematically I think.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-22 15:03:54'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Whilst it has a friendly aura, the ampersand looks like its head has flopped
    rightwards. I think X and Y have slightly the same tilt. Their thins seem to be
    stretching more than the heavy strokes.\r\n\r\nI love the spurs on G and J, really
    unusual. I wonder if the top right serif on M could be longer (compared to L it
    looks short). I think it could even be heavier. Where is N? \r\n\r\nI think the
    ogonek on E should begin flush right with the baseline arm.\r\n\r\nI like your
    4; same solution to stress as I found on Mint, though very different of course!\r\n\r\nDoes
    S need heavier serifs perhaps?"
  created: '2009-03-22 16:41:19'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thanks, Eliason and Juhani. I've redrawn the a tail, prolonged the f foot
    (by 13 units), redrawn the k arm, strengthened the x arms, tweaked the T by flattening
    and thinning the vertical stroke and fiddling with the serifs, and also thickening
    the stem by a split hair. Some work to the lining numerals, too. The Q was so
    boring, I'll do it later.\r\n\r\nI understand your consistency worries, Juhani.
    Could you briefly sketch how you think creative inconsistency could be successfully
    applied? You see, I've had similar, but vague ideas about combining austerity
    with playfulness while drawing this, but everything has been done at breakneck
    speed, so I really haven't given much systematical thought to it. Do you think
    I should make jollier asterisks and daggers?\r\n\r\nI really want to keep that
    question mark, and I belive it's not that out of character, look at Adobe's Jenson
    or Garamond Premier Pro. \r\n\r\nI'm sorry about mixing terms, Eliason, it's kind
    of difficult keeping track of nomenclature when you think in one language and
    write in another. What kind of section mark do you think would be right for this
    face? \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/schola_220309_mod_3536.png]"
  created: '2009-03-22 16:58:46'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>What kind of section mark do you think would be right for this face?</em>\r\n\r\nI
    think the structure you've chosen is certainly workable, it just looks a little
    too flowy and blobby. Maybe there's just a little too much modulation of thickness
    in the strokes. I might just try thickening the thins (particularly the inside
    stroke where it joins the other at the very top and bottom). \r\n\r\nChanges you
    show just above are all for the better, IMO."
  created: '2009-03-22 18:03:17'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Followed all your advice, Bendy, though I'll wait with the tweaking of the
    diacritics. Seems like I've forgotten the N altogether. Here it is.\r\n\r\nDid
    a quick sketch if a more toothpastey and Renaissance ampersand, more in style
    with the question mark, which has had few tweaks, as well. Do you think this directio
    is worth following?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/schola_220309_mod2_4838.png]"
  created: '2009-03-22 18:04:16'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: Thanks, Eliason, I'll give the section mark some darn good whacking.
  created: '2009-03-22 18:08:32'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: 'I don''t normally like the ampersand with that bump halfway down the diagonal
    stroke but this is definitely very nice. '
  created: '2009-03-22 18:22:27'
- author:
    name: juhani
  body: "Satyagraha, I don't have any specific suggestions. I think the contrast of
    two somewhat opposite qualities should generally be within each glyph rather than
    between different glyphs. This could mean for example soft counter forms and hard
    outer forms (or vice versa) throughout the face.\r\n\r\nI think it's good that
    the whole thing is pretty crisp, considering the weight. An oldstyle face with
    too much softness can end up looking like typical bold cuts or nostalgic ink-spread
    imitation. The narrow serifs are also good since they bring some delicacy to compete
    with the robustness.\r\n\r\nThe daggers look fine next to the A-Z & a-z. If you
    want more contrast or tension of different forms, maybe emphasize both the roundness
    and the sharpness at the same time (like Garamond & Caslon)."
  created: '2009-03-22 22:29:46'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "New, less formal punctuation, nothing is completely circular anymore, and
    curves have replaced most  lines. Any sore thumbs here, or do these like each
    other? \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/schola_220309_punctuation_5109.png]"
  created: '2009-03-22 22:32:36'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Your asterisk! Wow! I was just doing my asterisk earlier, but yours really
    beats it!
  created: '2009-03-22 22:44:12'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thanks, Bendy! The asterisk just drew itself, really. Lucky accident, really.\r\n\r\nThank
    you for your feedback, Juhani, seems like I misunderstood your advice, though
    I think my new punctuation is better than the old one. Yes, I like that tension
    idea you're talking about, and there will be more of it in the larger cuts of
    this typeface (I'm planning a 10 point, 12 point, 18 point and 72 point version,
    this is the 8 point cut). I think too much sharpness and tension at eight points
    is a little wasted. I agree on your view of soft revivals, though they may look
    nice on the right paper, they all too often turn into their own parodies. I'm
    sure Baskerville or Bodoni or Fleischmann would have embraced the crispness of
    modern technology, and designed their faces in accordance."
  created: '2009-03-22 23:03:30'
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: "I like this. (See, I CAN same something nice when I have something nice to
    say.)\r\n\r\nI would encourage you to explore other weights of the face before
    tweaking for point sizes or drawing every fist, dagger, and pilcrow."
  created: '2009-03-23 00:06:37'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thanks, James. I'm new to this forum, so I have noe idea of your reputation.
    :-)\r\n\r\nYou're right, of course, the making of this typeface has turned into
    an obsession, now I <em>really</em> have to leave it for a while, to regain some
    perspective. But I can't. I don't think I'll make other weights, though, at least
    not for this small size-cut. But I'll make an italic, of course, and small caps.
    I'm also considering a gothic based on its skeleton, which will have several weights.
    But that's future stuff. Boy, I wish I could spend all my energy on this instead
    of working."
  created: '2009-03-23 00:23:21'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/schola maior_5294.png]\r\n\r\nThis is
    the first draft of the 60 point master of Schola, the largest cut of this typeface.
    I have a vague feeling I've exaggerated its details and the thinness of the hairlines,
    please tell me what you think. A pdf is attached, if anyone wants a closer look.\r\n\r\nSB"
  created: '2009-04-03 01:13:04'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I really like your numerals. I don't have much to offer in terms of crit
    though, sorry. It looks really lovely and good to my eye. The only things that
    stand out a bit (and this could really just be me) are:\r\n5 is a really interesting
    shape but I think the lining one needs a firmer tail. The knee of K and k looks
    high. X and Y look a touch narrow. The stem of Y could be moved right a notch
    or two as it looks left-heavy. Perhaps y could do with more weight at the top
    right serif? (Compare with k?)\r\nI really like the c with the weight looking
    precarious like that. Could you repeat that on f? There's something about the
    lower half of e that isn't right. Does j need a heavier blob on the tail?\r\nThese
    are more questions than advice, don't take me too seriously! :)"
  created: '2009-04-05 20:27:51'
date: '2009-03-19 05:13:46'
title: Schola, a dark mannerist face

---
