---
author:
  name: PublishingMojo
  picture: 116574
body: "I'm curious to see if others are observing the same anachronism that I am.\r\nI
  used to take it for granted that people would type text with two word spaces after
  a period, because that's how you learned it on a typewriter. I patiently searched
  and replaced the double word spaces with single word spaces when importing text
  into a page layout program.\r\nThat was years ago. Now, the workforce is well-stocked
  with men and women who have never touched a typewriter, maybe never even seen one
  except in the movies. They don't know what monospaced letters are, or why such things
  existed. And yet . . . <em>they type two word spaces after a period.</em> It's as
  if they were reflexively waving their left hands at the end of every line to push
  a phantom carriage return (if you don't know what that is, [[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Pp2IJIk5qvc|click
  here]]).\r\nDo any of you notice this? Can any of you (especially those under 35)
  tell me how this archaic habit survived into the 21st Century?\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: It must be a cultural thing. I've worked as a editor and newspaper designer
    here in Norway for ten years, editing journalists of all ages, and have never
    encountered double spaces after periods. But I've read several other Americans
    lamenting the same phenomenon, so it's obviously quite wide-spread over there.
  created: '2009-03-21 22:46:14'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: I met quite sane people who did it for aesthetics, they preferred the wider
    gap. And I often encounter it around a word in italic as well, for the same reason.
    We won't be able to forget search & replace yet :(
  created: '2009-03-21 23:16:55'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Colleagues of mine often do double (and even triple) spaces. I guess they
    think it looks nice but I haven't actually asked why. I always search and replace.
    They also do odd things with slash and space like/ this.
  created: '2009-03-21 23:20:01'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: The cycle of education is resistant to new information. If people know they're
    supposed to do something but don't know why, it will last forever.
  created: '2009-03-21 23:45:43'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "i honestly don't know, so i will ask:  do you think there should be\r\na
    larger space at the end of a sentence than a normal word-space?\r\n\r\nwhat would
    most typographers say?\r\n\r\nif you believe the space _should_ be bigger, then
    i would say that\r\nmost people would agree with you, and because they have seen\r\nthat
    most of the programs they use (including word-processors)\r\ndo not make that
    space larger, they're merely doing it themselves.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-22 01:52:05'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "I never typed seriously on a typewriter (only playing around as a kid on
    my dad's old one, but I already had a computer by that time) and I've always used
    two spaces.  For me, it's just another unit of division.  Book, chapter, section,
    subsection, paragraph, sentence.  The double space helps me quickly (and unobtrusively)
    find each sentence in a paragraph, but isn't so much that it makes wide gaps.
    \ It also makes it clear when a period is used as an abbreviation mark or as an
    end-of-sentence mark.  Disambiguation is rarely a bad thing, especially when it
    doesn't make the text look bad.  (I've never understood why people think that
    two spaces = unprofessional looking).\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea
    tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz
    Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2009-03-22 04:30:16'
- author:
    name: Smab
    picture: 117041
  body: "It's because of teachers who were told to do it that way telling their students
    that they should do it that way. My mom's one of the teachers that does this.\r\nEither
    I've been overlooking this all along or most the people I know don't put two spaces
    after a sentence.\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-22 04:58:10'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: It's my understanding that in type there is only a single space after any
    punctuation, with the exception of list indices with fullstops which need more
    space, like EN.
  created: '2009-03-22 05:18:15'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: I recall hearing the terms "English spacing" and "French spacing," meaning
    respectively, double and single spaces after a period. This is consistent with
    Satyagraha's observation that preferences vary from one country (or language)
    to another. Is it only the US that has a disconnect between "typing," where everyone
    is taught to double-space, and "professional typesetting," which almost always
    requires a single space?
  created: '2009-03-22 05:51:05'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Cerulean, I would ask why specifically one <em>should</em> use only a single
    space.\r\n\r\nAcademia is open to new ideas, but only if it actually shows a benefit.
    \ Working as a teacher now and being a child of the internet age, having sent
    my first e-mail in 1989 when I was 4, and programming from shortly thereafter,
    I'm not convinced of the benefit of computers in education (at least in foreign
    languages).  I was forced to use it teaching as a grad student and I saw no benefit,
    if anything the opposite: it was all a money-grabbing ploy by the book companies
    that resulted in extra work for everyone with no extra benefit. *\r\n\r\nFor me
    the only benefit with one space was to crunch an extra letter or two per line
    in a newspaper or magazina, something that didn't have much importance most other
    print media.  So, it's always seemed to me an economic decision instead of an
    aesthetic.  That or an arbitrary rule.  I'm sure every now and then I'll use a
    single space or a space and a half if it looks better given the font.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>\r\n\r\n* This is not to
    say I can't have my mind changed.  But what I think would work hasn't been developed
    and I don't yet feel like doing it myself."
  created: '2009-03-22 06:07:35'
- author:
    name: nepenthe
    picture: 109675
  body: "One good reason against using a longer sentence space is obviously to produce
    an even color in the textblock. But most young students, even today, are taught
    by their teachers to double the word space--as if the period and following capital
    letter weren't a sure enough sign. \r\n\r\nBut the doublespace is not just a typewriter
    thing. I've seen it in a number of older books. Many of my philosophy books have
    a larger sentence space. But if you'll notice, most books set on composition machines
    seem to have a wider average word space then texts set on computers. Modern texts
    seem to have a word space of about 6- to 4-to-em spaces, while it is not uncommon
    to see 3-to-em and wider on the older books. I find that this gappy word spacing
    actually makes the wider sentence spaces seem <em>less</em> noticeable, since
    the ratio of normal to wide appears less than with the tighter spacing.\r\n\r\nI
    suppose if you thought it were important to make the beginnings of a sentence
    visibly obvious when scanning the page--I can't think of a situation in which
    this would be important--then you might want to keep that second space. But if
    the document is something which lends itself to continuous reading, such as a
    novel, I'm not sure that one could defend it except by appeal to subjective preference."
  created: '2009-03-22 07:01:21'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Yes, it is a matter of custom, of audience. Like so many things, this custom
    isn't simply a \"national\" matter.\r\n\r\nWhen I started setting type, the 4-5-7
    rule was in effect for the value of the word spacing used to set justified copy.
    That's 4 to 7 units of space, using an 18-unit em. Anyway, we got a literary journal
    to set. My now-wife was in charge of design and production, and agreed to a simple
    test. I set an article using 4-5-7 spacing, and reset it, using 5-6-8 spacing.
    The design people at the press were asked which they preferred; all of them preferred
    the 4-5-7. Then the editorial people were asked which they preferred. They preferred
    the 5-6-8 spacing.\r\n\r\nThere are any number of such examples, but at most publishing
    houses, the aesthetic of the design & production people rules, for the simple
    reason that they are the ones who control paying for manufacturing -- or increasingly
    today, do the work. The larger audience doesn't get a voice.\r\n\r\nFWIW"
  created: '2009-03-22 11:51:19'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: "I always thought that people (Americans, anyway) double-spaced after a period
    because monospaced alphabets have loose spacing generally. Monospaced type mostly
    disappeared* thanks to cheap plug-and-play laser printers, and I mistakenly assumed
    that loose sentence spacing would disappear along with it. \r\n\r\n*For everyone
    except programmers."
  created: '2009-03-22 18:51:14'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "<cite>as if the period and following capital letter weren\u2019t a sure enough
    sign.</cite>\r\n\r\nI went to the store today and saw Dr. Roberts there. Mrs.
    Roberts was also there and we all talked.\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-22 22:53:49'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Same here, Victor, that's the explanation I always believed. It could even
    have come from one of the early manuals or tutorials with PostScript fonts, from
    Aldus PageMaker documentation or Adobe Type. When we marked up manuscripts for
    setting here, we did not worry about this, as it was the domain of the typesetters.
    It was only after word-processors and desktop type & layout arrived, that a designer
    had to know this.\r\n\r\nMatthew, you nailed it! However, the current local usage
    here is that most of these do not use the full stop anymore as long as the last
    letter of the word and the contraction coincide. So, its Dr Roberts and Mrs Roberts
    anyway, and no problem. And Times St and Hevetica Rd and Gotham Bld and Museo
    Ave and St Typophile Church on the summit of Mt Argument. "
  created: '2009-03-22 23:08:50'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: Jan, I like the British (and Australian) convention of abbreviating titles
    (Mr, Dr, St, Rd, Mt) without periods, because it keeps paragraphs from becoming
    cluttered with unnecessary and confusing punctuation marks. But I think it has
    about as much chance of being adopted here in the US as the metric system does.
  created: '2009-03-23 00:05:22'
- author:
    name: gillo
    picture: 113901
  body: I'm under 35 and I type two spaces after a period automatically without thinking
    about it.  I read somewhere that you're not supposed to do that so now whenever
    I'm typing up something important I have to go back through and remove the extra
    spaces.  I don't know where I picked up the habit (I suppose in the requisite
    "keyboarding" class I had to take in junior high) but now it's like a muscle memory
    thing and I can't stop.  I'd have to painstakingly re-learn how to type in order
    to break the habit, I think.
  created: '2009-03-23 00:48:26'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>Jan, I like the British (and Australian) convention of abbreviating
    titles (Mr, Dr, St, Rd, Mt) without periods, because it keeps paragraphs from
    becoming cluttered with unnecessary and confusing punctuation marks. . . .</cite>\r\n\r\nSo,
    how about initials -- like G. E. M. Anscombe? You drop the periods here, too?
    BTW, Chicago style (U.S. academic) requires a space between such initials. So
    if you have to set, say, W. A. Smith, P. A. Jones, etc., there is a hell of a
    gap between the initials.\r\n\r\nIn some ways, things are worse with modern thinking:
    where the space can have a kern, you can really get things mucked up with some
    constructions. Kerning with three letters rather than pairs only might solve some
    of that, with the expense of a lot of kerning work."
  created: '2009-03-23 02:14:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Bringhurst--the Elements of Typographic Style--and Felici--the Complete Manual
    of Typography--strongly reject double spaces after sentences. The Chicago Manual
    of Style rules against them as well--both in manuscripts and in final publication.
    \r\n\r\nI agree. I think it only made sense: 1. In trying to make high contrast
    'modern' typefaces in the 19th century, which were relatively unreadable, more
    readable in extended text. 2. When using monospaced typewriters, or monospaced
    fonts that imitate them. \r\n\r\nBecause of the big space around a period, and
    the following cap, one word space between sentences still gives plenty of space
    to distinguish it from a normal word space. You could argue for slightly more,
    I suppose, but I just can't see a full extra word space as defensible.  \r\n\r\nThere
    is such unanimity on this, at least in English, and has such a force of logic
    behind it--you put unnecessarily big holes in the text--that I think to double
    word space after sentences at this point in time is a blunder to be avoided. It
    is defensible if imitating a typewriter, but otherwise I don't see how. \r\n\r\nI
    think even color and compactness also argue for no spaces in intermediate initials--M.F.K.
    Fisher--as Bringhurst advocates. But Chicago Manual of Style disagrees.    \r\n\r\nIn
    publishing whatever the money wants is more important that typographic nicety,
    but from a typographic point of view no double spacing really makes sense. \r\n"
  created: '2009-03-23 02:58:38'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "<cite>I think even color and compactness also argue for no spaces in intermediate
    initials\u2014M.F.K. Fisher\u2014as Bringhurst advocates. But Chicago Manual of
    Style disagrees.</cite>\r\n\r\nBeing both an editor and a typesetter, I make a
    compromise on this (and on some similar issues, like ellipses). I use thin spaces
    or sixth spaces, depending on the typeface. I've found that it makes enough space
    that other editors won't object (or haven't so far, anyway), while keeping the
    gaps within reason."
  created: '2009-03-23 03:12:19'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "<em>I think even color and compactness also argue for no spaces in intermediate
    initials\u2014M.F.K. Fisher\u2014as Bringhurst advocates.</em>\r\n\r\nMy favourite
    usage as well, as it also prevents really bad line breaks, such as H.\r\nG. Wells
    wrote ..."
  created: '2009-03-23 04:10:32'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">2. When using monospaced typewriters, or monospaced fonts that imitate them.
    \r\n\r\nI've not read the whole thread - but today there's a good chance the text
    you write in proportional fonts is going to end up in some \"plain-text\" format
    displayed in a  fixed pitch font as it whizzes across the interwebs - most notably
    in email (or when cut and pasted into the Typophile's edit window). So maybe double
    spacing is good insurance for that.   \r\n"
  created: '2009-03-23 04:46:23'
- author:
    name: nepenthe
    picture: 109675
  body: "@guifa  Abbreviations aren't usually a source of confusion in these cases.
    However, if the text were like this: \"Just then I went to talk with the Dr. Roberts
    was waiting outside. So I had to make it quick ...\" the reader would definitely
    be confused. Is ruining page colour worth it for such rare circumstances?\r\n\r\nNobody's
    mentioned it, so I think I will. I believe TeX allows you to adjust the sentence
    space to be a proportion of the regular word space. This allows for spaces to
    be, say, 1.5 the regular word space, which can look quite nice, depending on the
    typographic context. Ah, so many wonderful features in TeX ... if all you're setting
    is text. \r\n\r\nI wonder if anyone's ever made a font that has two periods, one
    for names and one for abbreviations, to help avoid reader confusion? And while
    we're at it, let's distinguish commas from single brackets already\u2014they have
    two different meanings!\u2014But I digress :)"
  created: '2009-03-23 05:32:49'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Nepenthe, that's my point.  To my the page colour isn't \"ruined\" at all
    and results in better diferentiation.  As well, the difference between a hyphen,
    n-, and m-dash can create the same difference when 99% of the time people would
    understand a text using only hyphens.\r\n\r\nTeX is surprisingly nice for typography,
    especially XeTeX which supports a large range of OpenType features.  Sad that
    most people just default to computer modern.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea
    tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz
    Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2009-03-23 08:50:11'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\u201Cplain-text\u201D format displayed in a fixed pitch font\"</em>\r\n\r\nSeconded.
    I've seen the double space used quite a bit on usenet and in e-mail, and especially
    by mostly very young people who prefer to type in lowercase only. \r\nIn that
    context, the double space really helps in that you can actually see where a sentence
    begins."
  created: '2009-03-23 10:00:54'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "@ Jan,\r\n\r\npreventing such bad breaks is the typesetters responsibility,
    not the font makers.\r\n\r\n@ All of you,\r\n\r\nThere seems to be a profound
    difference in thinking between many people who make type, and people who use type,
    or just read. Theory & practice, I suppose, but the world is better when the two
    are close to each other.\r\n\r\nAs for not using a space between initials: Quick,
    how many of you kern the period after a W, T, V, etc.? Most everybody. And a number
    of fonts I've seen have the period kerned so tightly the advance after the period
    places the next character closer to a \"W+period\" sequence than to a plain \"W\".
    Now, how many of you also kern a period going *into* W, V, T, etc? Not as many,
    but some.\r\n\r\nAll right, with such kerning, set \"T.T.\", \"T.W.\" \"W.W.\"
    etc. and watch things overlap.\r\n\r\n* * *\r\n\r\nI too tried using the thin
    space between initials, and about the 5th book, got some \"P.E.--use equal space\"
    with the space between initials and a word space circled. Just because editors
    don't agree with you doesn't mean they don't have a good eye.\r\n\r\nLikely these
    were on looser lines, which are sometimes unavoidable (like when \"strengthen\"
    is trying to be the last word on the first line of a paragraph). But occasionally,
    you wind up using a word space smaller than a thin space in a justified setting,
    and the the thin-spaced initials again stick out."
  created: '2009-03-23 12:39:44'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Charles, it is for the reasons similar to those you cite that when kerning
    the period, comma, and quotes with diagonal capitals, I always cue off sequences
    such as V.\u2019 and A\u2019. to be sure that things aren't kerned so tightly
    as to create bad collisions. \r\n\r\nIn text faces, it is easy to err in the direction
    of too tight kerning.\r\n\r\n-- Kent."
  created: '2009-03-23 13:24:47'
- author:
    name: nepenthe
    picture: 109675
  body: "I imagine that a reader who is neither a typographer nor a type designer
    would either notice or care if word and sentence spaces are are easy to distinguish,
    at least not while reading. Just like many people don't notice whether there's
    space around a dash or not, or whether letters are perfectly spaced, and other
    subtle things like that. It seems to me that even collisions in combinations like
    \"T.T\" and \"T.V\" are more of a concern for typographers than readers. Would
    I care if I saw such a collision? Of course! Would many others? Probably not.
    So I guess it is up to the preference of who ever is paying the bill or whoever
    controls the typesetting choices. I can definitely see the advantage from a functional,
    as opposed to aesthetic, perspective of using a wider word space. But I've never
    heard anyone who wasn't involved in type-related fields ever mention that they
    wish typeset materials would return to the wider space, or that the continuous
    word spacing poses a challenge to their reading.\r\n\r\nI'm finding this really
    interesting. I had always just dogmatically assumed a preference for consistent
    spaces for everything but abbreviations, where I prefer thin spaces. But I typeset
    using mostly my own fonts, which are kerned to accommodate this usage. It seems
    that there is a stronger argument for using wider sentence spaces than I thought!
    Although I do think a ratio of 1.5:1 would be greatly preferable to 2:1."
  created: '2009-03-23 13:42:12'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">by mostly very young people who prefer to type in lowercase only.\r\n\r\nTyping
    in lower case only is a sign of callow youth that thinks it's discovered a better
    way, and are going to teach their elders. They generally wise up after some time.
    \r\n\r\nThe most serious effort at no caps was the Bayer, whose desire to do away
    with caps was a part of the movement in Germany to reject Blackletter, without
    simply imitating the rest of Europe. The idea was to use only all sans, no caps.
    (German capitalizes all nouns as well as beginnings of sentences.) It flopped
    also, though the Bauhaus effort to establish sans as useful in text has won out
    as an option.\r\n\r\nLowercase-only is a much worse practice than double spacing
    after sentences, because it slows the reader down by removing an expected symbol
    of the beginning of a new sentence.\r\n\r\nIt's interesting that TeX enables you
    to adjust space after sentences. I assume you have to tell the computer that a
    sentence has ended, as I don't know how you could distinguish an initial or abbreviation
    from a sentence end otherwise. \r\n\r\nYou can also play with this in InDesign
    using an additional thin space after sentences. I just can't see a double space
    as an improvement, except for monospaced fonts--and honestly I don't even see
    a double space as helping there either, because the period takes such a huge \"M\"
    space in a monospaced font anyway. \r\n\r\nCharles, I think over kerning of punctuation,
    such as is done in Minion, is a bad idea. It seems that Slimbach, who is great
    otherwise, has thought better of it in more recent fonts, though I don't have
    them myself, to check in detail. \r\n\r\nSpeaking of thin spaces, do you have
    an opinion on what thin space is most useful? I read thin spaces as 1/4, 1/5,
    and 1/6 em. What is best?  "
  created: '2009-03-23 14:02:28'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Bill (as I take a break from placing 95 pictures with long captions in a
    700+ page book), I don't think there is any answer. If you ask an old Linotype
    operator, he'd tell you that a thin space is an unexpanded spaceband -- about
    2 points if you are using thin spacebands. Of course, the Linotype linecaster
    wasn't on the em-system; a Monotype operator would give a different answer.\r\n\r\nWith
    modern computer fonts, back from the days when I was using TeX, I've used 155
    units (1,000 unit em) for a thin space. I've been edging downward; sometimes using
    as little as 100 units. For me, a thin space should be recognizably smaller that
    the smallest wordspace that could occur with a justified setting. Obviously, with
    condensed fonts you need a correspondingly smaller value for a useful thinspace.\r\n\r\nWhat
    I put in Unicode 2009 depends on the font and it's nominal wordspace. I'm having
    to adjust -- TeX wordspaces are not characters, and you can program whatever you
    want for other spaces more or less \"on the fly.\" InDesign requires both to be
    \"in the font.\"\r\n\r\nMy starting point is a thinspace (2009) about 150 units,
    with a hairspace (200A) about 55 units.\r\n\r\nBTW, we never used \"French spacing\"
    with TeX, but there is a way to signal when to use it in the file. Offhand, I
    can't remember just how."
  created: '2009-03-23 15:29:47'
- author:
    name: smellingoranges
  body: "This is one of my biggest pet peeves. The main reason it is still happening
    is because teachers are still teaching it despite the fact that many manuals of
    style have changed to the 1 space rule. If you don't believe me (or my sources
    in graphic design training), check with the \"goddesses of all things editorial\"
    The Chicago Manual of Style. \r\n\r\nFor those of you who asked why one space
    is better or necessary really surprise me. Perhaps you aren't designers or typesetters,
    but this was something I was taught back in Design 101. Two spaces after a period
    is only necessary and required on a typewriter or a font like Courier (which you
    hopefully aren't using). It does not look better with 2 spaces. Books are not
    professionally set with two spaces, even when typewriters were the big dogs, since
    books were laid out and printed on a press. Pull down any book on your shelf\u2014you
    won't find two spaces between sentences. We don't need the extra space to tell
    us when a new sentence has started. Now, with the creation of fonts and computers,
    the extra space is actually distracting. If you are a designer, especially a layout
    designer, you should know and vehemently follow this. It isn't a matter of whether
    or not people are actually going to notice or care. The premise of graphic design
    in the first place is to do something so beautiful that the design disappears
    and the content takes precedence. Design should never be distracting."
  created: '2009-03-23 15:31:50'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "ok, i'll ask again:  do book designers commonly use\r\na \"sentence-space\"
    that is larger than a word-space?\r\n\r\ni believe they should.\r\n\r\nfurther,
    i agree with the poster above who said that\r\na sentence-space should be about
    1.5 times bigger.\r\n(actually, i think 1.25 is probably even big enough.\r\nyes,
    2 times bigger is _far_ too big.  but it's better\r\nto go even that far than
    not to have any difference.)\r\n\r\ni only use one space at the end of a sentence
    _when_\r\ni'm sending the text to a typesetting program, since\r\ni _expect_ that
    program will create that larger space\r\n_automatically_.  but when i am dealing
    with an app\r\nwhich doesn't do it automatically, i use two spaces...\r\n\r\n\"even
    color\" is good, but when it misleads a reader to\r\npoorer recognition of the
    presence of a new sentence,\r\nit's not doing its job.  it's not the only value
    out there.\r\nany kind of a break -- e.g., paragraph indent -- is the\r\ncorrect
    place to introduce an extra bit of whitespace...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\np.s.
    \ oh yeah, and i really dislike apps, like browsers,\r\nwhich not only fail to
    auto-create a sentence-space,\r\nbut also actually throw away the extra space
    i used...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-23 16:17:59'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "<cite>For those of you who asked why one space is better or necessary really
    surprise me. Perhaps you aren\u2019t designers or typesetters, but this was something
    I was taught back in Design 101</cite>\r\n\r\nI, like most people, was taught
    a lot of things as an undergraduate, and then learned better in grad school and
    in the real world.  The saying as you know is you need to know the rules to break
    them (to an extent, of course :) ). \r\n\r\nBut since you quote the Chicago Manual
    of Style, I'll kindly note that the Modern Language Association whose format I
    almost universally have to use, allows either style.\r\n\r\n1.5 is probably best,
    though in quick correspondence or draft copies, I find 2 spaces to be preferable
    to 1 (plus, if you want to go back and mass change when prepping a final document,
    it's easier to go 2->1.5 instead of 1->1.5)\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea
    tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz
    Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2009-03-23 16:41:44'
- author:
    name: nepenthe
    picture: 109675
  body: "@charles  I think it's \\frenchspacing and \\nofrenchspacing, but I don't
    remember exactly either.\r\n\r\nI think that to distinguish abbreviations, you
    would place a non-breaking space between letters rather than a regular word space.
    E.g. \"V.~T. Smitherington\"."
  created: '2009-03-23 17:12:18'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > ok, i\u2019ll ask again: do book designers commonly use\r\na \u201Csentence-space\u201D
    that is larger than a word-space?</cite>\r\n\r\nNo.\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-23 17:23:43'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> It\u2019s interesting that TeX enables you to adjust space after sentences.
    I assume you have to tell the computer that a sentence has ended, as I don\u2019t
    know how you could distinguish an initial or abbreviation from a sentence end
    otherwise.\r\n\r\nActually, it is the other way around. You use a special character
    after an abbreviation to indicate that it is not a full stop.\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-23 18:05:22'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "<<  a Monotype operator would give a different answer. >>\r\n\r\nIndeed,
    Charles, there was a way to get very thin spacing on a Monotype. Late-model machines
    employed a feature called \"unit adding.\" With this one could add space to the
    right side of the last letter in a word and delete the word space following. This
    could give very thin space between words.\r\n\r\nThere was also the possibility
    to subtract units from the body of some sorts and thus achieve, for instance,
    a kerned Wa combination right off the caster. In large display that was a huge
    bonus because the hand comp would not have to fiddle with the saw to make the
    kern.\r\n\r\nExactly how unit adding worked in concert with the Monotype's justifying
    system I do not know. I never learned the unit adding technique because my time
    as a Mono keyboarder was pretty short. Good keyboard operators could make great
    looking lines of type with these and some other tricks. I hope someone is teaching
    these tricks to the hardy band of young folks who are learning Monotypes today.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2009-03-23 18:05:46'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "William: I mentioned the \"lowercase generation\" because I find it kind
    of funny/cute to observe how young hipsters, who refute traditional stuff! even
    capitalization!, sometimes refer back to something as quaint as the typewriter
    habit of double spaces, like a last faint attempt to make their sentences readable\u2026
    (See, our very own lowercase bird does this too.)"
  created: '2009-03-23 18:14:22'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "kentlew said:\r\n>   No.\r\n\r\nok, good.  thanks.\r\n\r\nnow let me be a
    bit more specific.\r\n\r\nalthough bringhurst doesn't see any need for sentence-space\r\nthat's
    larger than the normal word-space, the _default_ in tex\r\nis for an enlarged
    sentence-space, is it not?\r\n\r\nand, to prevent this from happening incorrectly
    mid-sentence,\r\nthe exception to this is when the word which is terminated with\r\na
    period is capitalized, the assumption being it's an abbreviation?\r\n\r\nindeed,
    the mere fact that the term \"sentence-space\" _exists_\r\nmeans typographers
    differentiate it from \"word-space\", not?\r\n\r\nthe /frenchspacing declaration
    turns the tex default _off_, not?\r\nwhich implies a sentence-space is expected
    _in_english_, not?\r\n\r\nso i guess the more specific form of the question would
    be \"what\r\n_percentage_ of book-designers use an enlarged sentence-space?\"\r\n\r\nnote
    that by \"enlarged\", i emphatically do _not_ mean twice as large.\r\n\r\nand
    a follow-up question would be, \"has this percentage changed\r\nin the last 100
    years or so?\"  i ask this because i'm accustomed to\r\nworking with public-domain
    texts, and i'm quite certain that these\r\nolder books did indeed typically use
    an enlarged sentence-space.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\naltaira said:\r\n>   William: I
    mentioned the \u201Clowercase generation\u201D\r\n\r\ni find it amusing you think
    that \"we\" constitute a \"generation\"...\r\ni haven't known anyone else who
    sticks to lowercase exclusively.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   because I find it kind of funny/cute
    to observe how young hipsters\r\n\r\ni also find it amusing you think i am \"young\"
    and a \"hipster\"...\r\ni'm probably older than you are, and probably...  well
    i probably\r\n_am_ hipper than you, but i'm not sure how you would gauge it.\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  who refute traditional stuff! even capitalization!\r\n\r\ni reject quite a
    bit of \"traditional stuff\", because it's _stupid_.\r\n\r\nbut i decline to use
    capital letters purely as an artistic statement.\r\n(well, the fact that capital
    letters are _ugly_ plays a part as well.)\r\n\r\nthere are times when it would
    be handy to use some uppercase.\r\ni look at those times as accepting a constraint
    voluntarily, which\r\nis a good thing for an artist to do.  (or anyone else, for
    that matter.)\r\n\r\n\r\n>   sometimes refer back to something as quaint \r\n>
    \  as the typewriter habit of double spaces\r\n\r\nas other people have pointed
    out, we see a use for an enlarged\r\nsentence-space -- and it's worth noting that
    we've specified that\r\nwe don't need that sentence-space to be _twice_ as large
    as the\r\nword-space -- so it's not accurate to describe it as being \"quaint\".\r\n\r\nbesides,
    if you grant that it's needed in the _typewriter_ situation,\r\nthen it's worth
    noting that many of our current situations haven't\r\nmorphed completely out of
    that situation, like monospaced e-mail.\r\n(i haven't used monospace in my e-mail
    for the last 25 years myself,\r\nbut some people -- including even here, i bet
    -- use it to this day.)\r\n\r\n\r\n>   like a last faint attempt to make their
    sentences readable\u2026 \r\n>   (See, our very own lowercase bird does this too.)\r\n\r\nit
    _does_ make my sentences more readable, since i'm missing the\r\ncapital-letter
    at the start of a new sentence, which is the biggest tip.\r\n\r\nbut i think the
    enlarged sentence-space makes text more readable\r\neven if one uses the standard
    casing, by marking sentence-endings.\r\n\r\nstill, you wouldn't know i use two
    spaces unless i had told you, since\r\nthe browser regards the second space as
    something nonsignificant...\r\n(unless you have a weird habit of doing \"view
    source\" on these pages.)\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-23 20:50:38'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: If you cannot keep it brief, go away. And if you think that what you are doing
    is readable (to people other than yourself), you are totally wrong.
  created: '2009-03-23 22:29:18'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: 'How do all you double-spacers cope with the fortunate "limitation" of html
    that renders two or more spaces as one? Do you use &nbsp? CSS-hacks? '
  created: '2009-03-23 22:44:08'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > the _default_ in tex is for an enlarged sentence-space, is it not?</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>
    > \u201Cwhat _percentage_ of book-designers use an enlarged sentence-space?\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\nAssuming
    that the former is true, then the answer to the latter would probably be approximately
    the percentage of book-designers (or more properly, \"compositors\" -- who may
    or may not be the designers) who use some version of TeX.\r\n\r\nWhich I believe
    is pretty small (no offense to TeX users, Steve Peters, or Charles E intended).
    Perhaps someone will refute this.\r\n\r\n<cite> > indeed, the mere fact that the
    term \u201Csentence-space\u201D _exists_ means typographers differentiate it from
    \u201Cword-space\u201D, not?</cite>\r\n\r\nThis is the first time I'm encountering
    the term used as any kind of regular expression.\r\n\r\n<cite> > has this percentage
    changed in the last 100 years or so?\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\nTrends, tastes, and fashions
    in overall spacing have fluctuated over the decades. There were definitely periods
    when wider spacing was more the norm.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-23 23:03:35'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: '[deleted accidental double post]'
  created: '2009-03-23 23:08:30'
- author:
    name: nepenthe
    picture: 109675
  body: "I'm so used to reading all lowercase online\u2014on websites and in emails\u2014that
    I'm now getting used to it myself. However, I think <em>most</em> people don't
    do it as an artistic statement, but out of laziness: no need to hit the shift
    key and the letter key at the same time (phew!).\r\n\r\nBut other than with TeX,
    which almost no one uses anymore, there is no straightforward way to automate
    this kind of spacing that I know of. I guess rather than use a space and a thin
    space, one could use an en space for sentences. But you'd still have to check
    each one in the document on replace, and I don't think I'd do that by choice if
    I were typesetting a long document."
  created: '2009-03-23 23:09:10'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "paragraph said:\r\n>   If you cannot keep it brief, go away\r\n\r\nthanks
    for the advice, but i think i'll stay.\r\n\r\nfeel free to ignore my posts if
    they are too lengthy for you.\r\ni'm aware that twitter has shortened many attention-spans.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nsatyagraha
    said:\r\n>   How do all you double-spacers cope with \r\n>   the fortunate \u201Climitation\u201D
    of html that renders \r\n>   two or more spaces as one?\r\n\r\nwe live with it.
    \ if we got upset about the flaws in our tools\r\n-- especially the minor flaws,
    and this is a minor flaw --\r\nwe would all end up sour and bitter, like some
    people here.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   Do you use &nbsp? CSS-hacks?\r\n\r\nno and no, more
    trouble than they're worth...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\np.s. my tools used to require
    two spaces to get an enlarged\r\nsentence-space, but it was too much work for
    the author...\r\nso now the tool enlarges the sentence-space automatically,\r\nprovided,
    of course, the reader has requested that option...\r\nthat way an author can just
    collapse all double-spaces to\r\na single-space, which makes text-preparation
    much easier.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-23 23:13:28'
- author:
    name: nepenthe
    picture: 109675
  body: How did you accomplish the longer sentence space automatically, bb?
  created: '2009-03-23 23:24:23'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture1_5994.png]'
  created: '2009-03-24 00:57:40'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "i'm not looking for a \"right\" answer, since typography is often\r\n\"in
    the eye of the beholder\".  i'm merely trying to ascertain the\r\n\"general practice\".\r\n\r\nso
    the default behavior of a well-regarded system is informative,\r\nwhich is why
    i brought up tex.  there's a reason that's its default.\r\n\r\nand if a newer
    system -- which i'd assume would be indesign? --\r\nhas changed that default,
    then that is instructive to me as well...\r\n\r\nand when you experts here tell
    me what you do, in your work,\r\nit's meaningful to me too, so thank you for all
    of the responses.\r\n\r\nin many ways, i have a distinct luxury, in that i'm not
    obligated to\r\nmake any decisions that would make end-users unhappy.  rather,\r\ni
    can make it a _setting_ which they toggle to their _preference_...\r\n\r\nindeed,
    if there is a striking difference of opinion on any issue,\r\nit's _best_ for
    me to leave it up to the user to decide how it goes.\r\n\r\nand it's pretty clear
    to me that that's the case with this matter...\r\n\r\nand that was pretty clear
    to me before this thread.  this is one of\r\nthose issues with a long history
    of controversy associated with it.\r\n(all the way back to \"the mac is not a
    typewriter\" by robin williams.)\r\n\r\nheck, it's even got a wikipedia entry
    associated with it:\r\n>   http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Double-spaced_sentences\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nnepenthe
    said:\r\n>   How did you accomplish the longer sentence space automatically, bb?\r\n\r\nwell,
    the answer -- i move the position of the pen a little to the right --\r\nis obvious,
    so i assume you're _really_ asking some other question, but\r\nsince there are
    many it _could_ be, i'll just ask you to be more specific...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-24 06:39:02'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "I don't come across the double space too often here in Finland. Some (older)
    clients use it, but I always clean them up. I believe it's the old habit of typewriting
    time in their case. \r\nIt's generally considered correct to have only one space
    after full stop, and I don't recall seeing double space in Finnish books."
  created: '2009-03-24 08:06:49'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: . .  .
  created: '2009-03-24 11:39:37'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "It would be interesting to find out when use of the double space\u2013or
    a space larger than the justifying word space\u2013was abandoned by typesetters.
    I took a random look at books from the 1840s through the 1940s and found these
    uses of larger spaces after a period.\r\n\r\n1847 London; 1860 London; 1908 St.
    Paul, Minnesota; 1929 Washington, D.C.; 1941 Chicago.\r\n\r\nThe 1847 and 1860
    were of course set by hand. The 20th century titles were all machine-set.\r\n\r\nSo
    in England and the US the larger space was used before the typewriter, as Nepenthe
    suggested, and it lingered well after the establishment of a caste of professional
    Linotype and Monotype operators.\r\n\r\nI also looked at my Horace printed by
    Firmin Didot in Paris in the 1830s or 1850s. The space following a period is the
    same as the internal word spaces. [I'm sorry about the date. It was 5.30 a.m.,
    and that type is really small. Even with a magnifier I could not make out the
    date. I was not awake, really, but I was pestered by this question.]\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2009-03-24 13:13:53'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "From a printing guide* by Henry Lewis Johnson, instructor in business printing
    at Boston University, published in 1924, in the section on Indentation and Spacing:\r\n\r\n\"Wide
    spacing between sentences is still a common defect. The period provides some space
    and the capital letter following makes the break sufficient if a four or five
    to em space is used.\"\r\n\r\n*The full title is <cite>Printing Type Specimens:
    Standard and Modern Types with Notations on Their Characteristics and Uses: A
    Printing Guide for Printers, Advertisers, and Students of Printing.</cite>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-24 14:05:05'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > so the default behavior of a well-regarded system is informative,\r\nwhich
    is why i brought up tex. there\u2019s a reason that\u2019s its default.\r\n\r\n<cite>
    > and if a newer system \u2014 which i\u2019d assume would be indesign? \u2014\r\nhas
    changed that default, then that is instructive to me as well... </cite>\r\n\r\nI
    think your chronology is a bit myopic. You'll want to expand your view if you
    want to ascertain general practice. \r\n\r\nWhile TeX did precede InDesign (in
    its current configuration), it was never a broadly established standard (not that
    I'm aware of), although some aspects of it have been very influential, and it
    has found an established place within certain niches of publishing. \r\n\r\nThere
    have been several alternative page-composition softwares, all relatively contemporaneous
    (in the grand scheme of typesetting), many proprietary. I don't know what the
    default might have been in all of them with regard to \"sentence-spaces.\" But
    I somehow doubt that inherently wider sentence spaces are a common behavior.\r\n\r\nAnd
    I think we still have yet to confirm that this difference, while evidently possible,
    is in fact the default behavior in TeX. Perhaps Charles or Steve or someone with
    practical experience can confirm or deny.\r\n\r\nYour chronology seems to imply
    that there was one accepted default, and then that default got changed recently.\r\n\r\nIf
    you want to trace the evolution of sentence spacing from a technological standpoint,
    you'll want to look back to phototypesetting systems and their default behaviors.
    There are folks around here who used Compugraphics, for instance. I could ask
    my brother, if none come forward to explain that default.\r\n\r\nPrior to that,
    you'd have to look at Linotype and Monotype. I know Linotype did not have a default
    mechanism for having sentence spaces distinct (wider or otherwise) from word spacing.
    Any variation would have been the style of the composition house, accomplished
    manually. One might be able to find exceptions, such as the 1941 Chicago example
    that Will cites, but I believe \"single\" spacing was more the norm. I'm not as
    familiar with Monotype composition (Will is), but I believe again that distinctly
    different spacing between sentences was not any kind of default behavior or norm.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-24 14:30:12'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "<cite>Perhaps Charles or Steve or someone with practical experience can confirm
    or deny.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe original TeX was set up to Knuth's tastes, and had
    slightly more space at sentence ends by default. (It was, however, <em>not</em>
    a double space (unless you were using the typewriter font), but rather a percentage,
    and that space was subject to more stretching when justifying the line.) But \\frenchspacing
    was an option from the beginning."
  created: '2009-03-24 14:48:59'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: Okay, that's settled, at least. Thanks for confirming, Steve.
  created: '2009-03-24 15:02:05'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "More historical evidence regarding book composition norms, FWIW. \r\n\r\nJan
    Tschichold in his Penguin Composition Rules (ca. 1947) for Penguin paperback books:\r\n\r\n\"All
    major punctuation marks -- full point, colon, and semicolon -- should be followed
    by the same spacing as is used throughout the rest of the line.\""
  created: '2009-03-24 15:06:05'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Oliver Simon's Introduction to Typography (from about the same time) likewise
    frets about "spacing too wide after a full point, resulting in rivers of obtrusive
    white."
  created: '2009-03-24 15:57:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Here's Bringhurst on the double spacing between sentences:\r\n\r\n\"In the
    nineteenth century, which was a dark and inflationary age in typography and type
    design, many compositors were encouraged to stuff extra space between sentences.\"\r\n\r\nHe
    does, however, support extra space between sentences in languages with no caps.\r\n\r\nI
    wonder how good his history is. In Harry Carter's A View of Early Typography I
    see in the famous Berner specimen of Garamond (1592) there are extra spaces between
    sentences. And Carter shows hand written manuscripts of humanist hands where there
    is also extra space between sentences. So contrary to what I said above, which
    I guess I got from Bringhurst, it does seem to be a practice much older than 19th
    century. \r\n\r\n  \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2009-03-24 16:21:17'
- author:
    name: philipcaplan
  body: "I always thought the reason why this practice became deprecated was that,
    once \"word-wrap\" and justification became possible with the invention of word-processing
    in say the late 1970's, there was the strong possibility of a line ending falling
    within either of those two spaces.\r\n\r\nThat would result in the auto-created-return
    replacing one of them, with the other left at the end of the previous line (or
    perhaps the beginning of the next) spoiling the neat justification!"
  created: '2009-03-24 17:32:06'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "As I said above, tastes and practices in spacing ebb and flow. Bill, the
    wider sentence space certainly goes back before the 19th century, despite what
    Bringhurst's statement might imply (though I suspect that wasn't necessarily his
    intention).\r\n\r\nYou can find plenty of examples scattered throughout Updike.
    My cursory impression is that the practice begins to emerge in the 18th century
    and perhaps reaches its zenith in the late 19th.\r\n\r\nIn terms of practicality,
    I would imagine that in hand setting, it's much easier to justify a line by throwing
    any leftover space into a single sentence division than adding it judiciously
    to all word spaces. In machine setting, there is no such labor advantage, since
    the mechanisms are set up to distribute space evenly by mechanical (or computational)
    means."
  created: '2009-03-24 17:43:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Kent, Bringhurst is certainly not responsible for what I read into him, but
    there does seem to be an implication that this was a new or at least increased
    practice in the 19th century. I was surprised to see it in the Berner broad sheet,
    16th century, and even earlier in scribal hands in Carter''s book. '
  created: '2009-03-24 19:09:27'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "kent said:\r\n>   published in 1924, in the section on Indentation and Spacing:\r\n>
    \  \u201CWide spacing between sentences is still a common defect.\"\r\n\r\nso
    here we have an acknowledgment that this was \"common\".\r\n\r\nthat accords with
    my experience with public-domain books,\r\nwhich is anything that predates 1923.\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  I think your chronology is a bit myopic. \r\n>   You\u2019ll want to expand
    your view \r\n>   if you want to ascertain general practice.\r\n\r\nthat's exactly
    what i'm trying to do, kent,\r\nwhich is the reason that i am _here_,\r\ninteracting
    with people like you.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   While TeX did precede InDesign (in its current
    configuration),\r\n>   it was never a broadly established standard (not that I\u2019m
    aware of), \r\n>   although some aspects of it have been very influential, and
    it has\r\n>   found an established place within certain niches of publishing.\r\n\r\ni'm
    not here to defend Tex.  i don't know it, or use it.\r\nnever have, and never
    will.  (i cut my d.t.p. teeth on\r\nventura publisher.)  nonetheless, knuth is
    respected,\r\nbig-time, and it certainly seems to me that he did his\r\nhomework.
    \ thus if he made it the _default_behavior_\r\nthat a sentence-space was larger
    than a word-space,\r\nthen it was because typographers of that time did too.\r\n\r\nagain,
    i myself prefer a slightly enlarged sentence-space,\r\nbut what i happen to prefer
    is not the important issue here.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   There have been several alternative
    page-composition softwares,\r\n>   all relatively contemporaneous (in the grand
    scheme of typesetting), \r\n>   many proprietary. I don\u2019t know what the default
    might have been \r\n>   in all of them with regard to \u201Csentence-spaces.\u201D
    But I somehow doubt\r\n>   that inherently wider sentence spaces are a common
    behavior.\r\n\r\nagain, i'm just collecting information, not engaging in an\r\n\"argument\",
    but right up above you quoted someone who\r\nsaid that -- in 1924, at least --
    wide spacing _was_ \"common\".\r\n\r\nnow, 1924 was a long time ago, so i believe
    it could've changed,\r\nand i'm not even saying that it hasn't -- if i knew all
    the facts,\r\ni wouldn't be here asking about them -- but again, the setting of\r\na
    default in systems like tex is a piece of information in the puzzle.\r\n\r\nand
    tex wasn't the only one.  groff also had a \"sentence-space\".\r\nand the term
    certainly isn't unknown to google, where it usually\r\ngoes by \"end of sentence
    space\", if you want to narrow it down...\r\n\r\n\r\n>   And I think we still
    have yet to confirm that this difference,\r\n>   while evidently possible, is
    in fact the default behavior in TeX.\r\n\r\nmaybe _you_ haven't confirmed it.
    \ but it's easy enough to do;\r\nlook up the \"frenchspacing\" declaration and
    you will see clearly.\r\n\r\nbut pay attention that i weight your opinion very
    heavily here...\r\ni see you market your services very clearly as a _book_ designer,\r\nnot
    a font designer, a graphic designer, or a plain \"designer\", and\r\nthat's an
    important consideration to me and my research here...\r\n\r\ni'm seeking information
    on what \"most\" book-designers think,\r\nnot just on this question, but on the
    whole gamut of questions,\r\nand since you are one, that's valuable.  still, you're
    \"just\" one...\r\n\r\nso i'm waiting for more people to weigh in, or for you
    to give me\r\nmore information that shows that other book-designers agree...\r\n\r\nand
    the resistance i see from you -- slight, yes, but it _is_ there,\r\nif you are
    willing to question something so easy to verify as the\r\ndefault setting in a
    well-known typesetting program -- is telling.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   Your chronology seems
    to imply that \r\n>   there was one accepted default, and then \r\n>   that default
    got changed recently.\r\n\r\nwell, i've looked at a _lot_ of public-domain scan-sets,
    and\r\nit's usually pretty easy to see that they used expanded spacing\r\nat the
    beginning of sentences.  but they also often put spacing\r\nbetween quotemarks
    and the words they were \"attached\" to,\r\nso a lot of \"standards\" have changed
    across the years, certainly.\r\n\r\nas for tex, there was indeed \"one accepted
    default\", but no,\r\nthat default has _not_ \"got changed recently\".  it's the
    same.\r\n\r\nnow, maybe that's a legacy default, and every tex user around\r\ncurses
    to themselves that they still have to change that default.\r\ni don't know.  and
    that's not even what i care about, not really.\r\n\r\nwhat i want to know is,
    if you polled all the book-designers,\r\nasking them about this matter, what would
    the results show?\r\n\r\nin the absence of such a poll, i just have to look at
    the books.\r\nthe thing is, with justified text, it's relatively difficult to
    tell...\r\n\r\nbut i can tell you that, even up to present-day books, i have\r\nseen
    some that appear to have an enlarged sentence-space.\r\n\r\nbecause of the copyright
    mess we're in, it's quite difficult\r\nto examine books from the last 50 years
    or so, because\r\neven if they've been scanned, their scans aren't viewable.\r\n\r\n(and,
    if you want to get a more definitive answer to this,\r\nyou need to have a program
    that actually computes the\r\nsize of the spaces within each line, which requires
    a scan.)\r\n\r\n\r\n>   If you want to trace the evolution of sentence spacing
    \r\n>   from a technological standpoint, you\u2019ll want to look back \r\n>   to
    phototypesetting systems and their default behaviors. \r\n\r\ni'm not really interested
    in the history.  i want to know the\r\ncurrent mindset of the current crop of
    book-designers...\r\n(and, if i can narrow it further, the _good_ book-designers.)\r\n\r\nso
    when you tell me what you do, and charles_e says that he \r\nwon't even take a
    job if he'd have to use a sentence-space,\r\nthat's exactly the kind of information
    i want.  i don't need\r\nanything more besides that.  i mean, i think the discussion\r\nis
    _fun_, so i'm happy to take part, but i don't really need it.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nkentlew
    said:\r\n>   Jan Tschichold in his Penguin Composition Rules \r\n>   (ca. 1947)
    for Penguin paperback books:\r\n>   \u201CAll major punctuation marks \u2014 full
    point, colon, and \r\n>   semicolon \u2014 should be followed by the same spacing
    \r\n>   as is used throughout the rest of the line.\u201D\r\n\r\ntschichold is
    an excellent reference point for me.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\neliason said:\r\n>   Oliver
    Simon\u2019s Introduction to Typography \r\n>   (from about the same time) likewise
    frets about \r\n>   \u201Cspacing too wide after a full point, \r\n>   resulting
    in rivers of obtrusive white.\u201D\r\n\r\nsorry, i don't know this simon guy,
    which might show\r\na huge hole in my knowledge, but if you brought him\r\nhere
    as a good reference, i will respect your judgment.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nwilliam said:\r\n>
    \  Here\u2019s Bringhurst on the double spacing between sentences:\r\n>   \u201CIn
    the nineteenth century, which was a dark and inflationary \r\n>   age in typography
    and type design, many compositors were \r\n>   encouraged to stuff extra space
    between sentences.\u201D\r\n\r\nand i think that's the point here.  the practice
    _was_ common.\r\nwhich is why these guys are giving their advice _not_ to do it...\r\n\r\nindeed,
    when they use spin like \"dark and inflationary age\",\r\nit makes it seem like
    the practice might have been pervasive.      ;+)\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nwilliam said:\r\n>
    \  I wonder how good his history is. In Harry Carter\u2019s \r\n>   A View of
    Early Typography I see in the famous Berner specimen \r\n>   of Garamond (1592)
    there are extra spaces between sentences. \r\n>   And Carter shows hand written
    manuscripts of humanist hands\r\n>   where there is also extra space between sentences.
    So contrary \r\n>   to what  I said above, which I guess I got from Bringhurst,
    it \r\n>   does seem to be a practice much older than 19th century.\r\n\r\ni couldn't
    say much about books that predate the 19th century,\r\nbecause i haven't looked
    at that many, and the ones i have seen\r\nare pretty much a hodge-podge on a wide
    variety of variables...\r\n\r\nbut i will dispute that the practice died out in
    the 19th century.\r\nthe public-domain books i've looked at run right up to 1923
    --\r\nand, because of the growth of publishing, there are a lot more\r\nthat are
    _closer_ to that 1923 cutoff than _farther_ from it --\r\nand i'd say the vast
    majority use an expanded sentence-space.\r\nso the practice was strong 1/4 of
    the way into the 20th century.\r\n\r\nnow, i haven't _measured_ it, in the way
    that i described above,\r\nso that's just my _impression_, but a big part of the
    reason that\r\ni never measured is that it's so obvious, i never felt that i had
    to.\r\n(another big part of the reason is because it's largely irrelevant to\r\nthe
    question about what we will choose to do in the 21st century.)\r\n\r\nanyway,
    here's yet another long post that people will throw darts\r\nat me because i've
    written.  oh well, so be it.  and my apologies to\r\nthe original poster, if that
    person thinks i \"hijacked\" their thread.\r\n(although, on looking back, it seems
    that they were just venting.)\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-24 19:30:19'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Okay, here\u2019s another quote. Forssman/de Jong in their <em>Detailtypografie</em>
    (2002, THE German reference):\r\n\r\n\u201EDer Punkt [\u2026]\_steht <strong>ohne
    Abstand</strong> am letzten Buchstaben des Satzes, danach steht ein Wortzwischenraum.\r\n(Nach
    einer lange au\xDFer Gebrauch geratenen Setzerregel soll man nach jedem Satzschlu\xDF
    <strong>zwei Wortzwischenr\xE4ume</strong> setzen. Diese Vorgehensweise hat Vorteile
    und kann, in engem Satz, durchaus noch angewandt werden.)\u201C\r\n\r\n\u201CThe
    period is put next to the last letter of the sentence <strong>without any spacing</strong>,
    and is followed by a [single] word space.\r\n(According to a typesetters rule
    that fell into desuetude long ago, there should be <strong>two word spaces</strong>
    after every end of a sentence. This approach has advantages and can, with tight
    setting, still be applied.)\u201D\r\n\r\nFWIW, I never have used a special sentence
    space that is larger than a word space, nor do I know another book designer who
    does so, nor have I ever seen it in contemporary books.\r\nF"
  created: '2009-03-24 20:05:53'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > and the resistance i see from you \u2014 slight, yes, but it _is_
    there, if you are willing to question something so easy to verify as the default
    setting in a well-known typesetting program \u2014 is telling.</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm
    not sure I understand the thrust of this statement. I have no problem saying plainly
    that Yes, I am resistant to the idea of wider sentence spaces in contemporary
    practice. It is not slight. \r\n\r\nI questioned the default in TeX because I
    have no practical experience with that program and have no access to it. Until
    Steve answered my question, I had heard no direct evidence that wider sentence
    spacing was the default, only that it was easily achieved if one cared to.\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>
    > thus if he made it the _default_behavior_ that a sentence-space was larger than
    a word-space, then it was because typographers of that time did too.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis
    is exactly the assumption that I'm challenging. I believe that you are drawing
    a conclusion that is not borne out.\r\n\r\n<cite> > but right up above you quoted
    someone who said that \u2014 in 1924, at least \u2014 wide spacing _was_ \u201Ccommon\u201D.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    don't think anyone is saying that there wasn't a period of time when wide spacing
    was common. Yes, from about the 18th century to the first quarter of the 20th.
    It was then railed against by many in the field, it was viewed as lazy and unsophisticated,
    and the common practice changed. \r\n\r\nI maintain that through the majority
    of the 20th century it was not common. I've tried to give evidence of some prominent
    practitioners who have since dismissed that style. I've outlined that it was not
    a practical approach within the prevalent methods of book composition in the 20th
    century, even up to the 1980s, when Knuth developed TeX. But . . . \r\n\r\n<cite>
    > i\u2019m not really interested in the history. i want to know the current mindset
    of the current crop of book-designers...</cite>\r\n\r\nSo you must forgive me,
    because I am historical by temperament.\r\n\r\nYou have my opinion. I am not able
    to speak for my colleagues and can offer no proof except a library full of contemporary
    examples in which no extra spacing is added between sentences.\r\n\r\nNow I will
    sit back and wait with you to see if any other book designers care to offer their
    opinions on the matter."
  created: '2009-03-24 20:51:05'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "florian said:\r\n>   Detailtypografie\r\n\r\ni think it's been acknowledged
    that, outside of english,\r\nany practice of larger sentence-spaces is uncommon...\r\n\r\nalthough,
    curiously, even here there is a reference to\r\n\"a typesetters rule\" -- though
    it \"fell into desuetude\",\r\nplus the authors note that an enlarged sentence-space\r\n\"has
    advantages\" and \"can\" be applied at some times...\r\n\r\n\r\n>   FWIW, I never
    have used a special sentence space \r\n>   that is larger than a word space, nor
    do I know \r\n>   another book designer who does so, nor have I \r\n>   ever seen
    it in contemporary books.\r\n\r\nok, unless someone else chips in to say that
    they _do_\r\nuse a larger space, let's consider the question resolved.\r\n\r\nthanks
    so much for your input, i appreciate it greatly...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-24 20:56:02'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "i see kent posted again while i was writing a post\r\nthat put the question
    to bed, from my view anyway.\r\n\r\nkent, i deeply appreciate your input on my
    question.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-24 20:59:29'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: "What I know of Knuth and TeX is what I learned, mostly by word of mouth,
    supervising a production team for a publisher that specialized in mathematics,
    engineering, and physical sciences. Here's the story as I understand it.\r\nIn
    the 1970s, authors composed their manuscripts on typewriters and submitted them
    to publishers, who sent them out to typesetting shops to make them ready for printing.
    The workers in the typesetting shops were generally not experts in mathematics,
    and often made mistakes, which resulted in tedious rounds of proofreading and
    correction. Sometimes, typesetters' errors slipped through the proofreading cycle
    and made their way into published books and journals, to the great embarrassment
    of the authors. \r\nThat was the problem Knuth set out to fix. He developed TeX
    so scientists and scholars could typeset their own books and articles, thus keeping
    them out of the hands of typesetters who might introduce errors. (The fact that
    this also saved time and money was just gravy.)\r\nTo judge from the work I've
    seen by technical authors working in TeX, Knuth wasn't overly concerned with the
    aesthetics of design. His goal was to give authors control over the way their
    pages look: not how a <strong>designer</strong> wants them to look, but how a
    <strong>mathematician</strong> wants them to look.\r\nEvery new technology starts
    out by mimicking the technology it's superseding (think of the spirited exchange
    that recently occurred on this site regarding justified type in ebooks). Before
    Knuth gave them TeX, his users were using <strong>typewriters</strong>. If TeX
    defaults to extra space between sentences, my guess is that Knuth did it that
    way because that's what his target market was accustomed to."
  created: '2009-03-24 21:23:59'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "publishingmojo said:\r\n>   If TeX defaults to extra space between sentences,
    \r\n>   my guess is that Knuth did it that way because \r\n>   that\u2019s what
    his target market was accustomed to.\r\n\r\ni think you're severely underestimating
    the research that\r\nknuth did to make sure tex was acceptable to typesetters.\r\n\r\nnot
    to mention the zeal with which they used his creation,\r\nor the passion with
    which they defend the output from it.\r\n\r\ni think they're cultists, don't get
    me wrong, but there was\r\na certain level of authenticity achieved to create
    that cult.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   think of the spirited exchange that recently occurred
    \r\n>   on this site regarding justified type in ebooks\r\n\r\na great example.
    \ that discussion gave me the impression\r\nthat ragged-right is considered acceptable
    by people here.\r\n\r\nbut i'll bet dollars to donuts you won't find two books
    on\r\nthe bestseller lists today that do not have a justified body.\r\n\r\nand
    i'll bet donuts to donuts there isn't even _one_ there...\r\n\r\nand hey, _my_
    preference is for ragged-right, so you know.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-24 21:39:59'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "and here's a response to kent's last post, so we have \"closure\"...      :+)\r\n\r\n>
    \  Yes, I am resistant to the idea of wider sentence spaces \r\n>   in contemporary
    practice. It is not slight.\r\n\r\ni respect your opinion, and the strength with
    which it is held.\r\nthat's meaningful information to me regarding my question...\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  I questioned the default in TeX because \r\n>   I have no practical experience
    with that program\r\n\r\ni took it that you were questioning my veracity\r\nbecause
    i had asserted that it was the default...\r\n\r\ni hope you can see the difference.\r\n\r\nnow
    that i've looked back, i see that i phrased it\r\nas a rhetorical question, and
    you might not have\r\ngrasped that the \"question\" _was_ a statement,\r\nand
    no, i cannot fault you in the slightest for that.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   This is exactly
    the assumption that I\u2019m challenging. \r\n>   I believe that you are drawing
    a conclusion\r\n>   that is not borne out.\r\n\r\nperhaps there's a question about
    knuth's reputation\r\nlurking underneath this?  i consider him to be _very_\r\nwell-respected,
    and that factors into my account, yes.\r\n\r\nhowever, charles_e has said that
    much of tex reflects\r\nthe personal opinion of knuth, and that might be true,\r\nand
    this may be one of the places where that manifests.\r\n\r\ni'm just a blind man
    trying to figure out the elephant,\r\nso i hope you forgive me when i get a few
    things wrong.\r\n\r\ni'm certainly not telling anyone here what's \"correct\".\r\ni'm
    just asking you to tell me your opinions...\r\n\r\n\r\n>   It was then railed
    against by many in the field, \r\n>   it was viewed as lazy and unsophisticated,
    \r\n>   and the common practice changed.\r\n\r\ni'm not sure i see it as \"lazy
    and unsophisticated\",\r\nexcept when used to excess to achieve justification.\r\notherwise,
    it requires as much discipline as any rule.\r\nbecause it demands some attention
    to _semantics_,\r\none could even argue that it requires more discipline.\r\n(i'm
    not making that argument, but someone could.)\r\n\r\n\r\n>   I maintain that through
    the majority of the 20th century \r\n>   it was not common. I\u2019ve tried to
    give evidence of some \r\n>   prominent practitioners who have since dismissed
    that style.\r\n\r\nand let me be clear that i pounced on that evidence...\r\nit
    was very important to me in answering my question.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   So you must
    forgive me, because \r\n>   I am historical by temperament.\r\n\r\njust to resolve
    what might now be a confusion about\r\nwhat i consider important, i do care about
    the history\r\n-- especially what was included in textbooks and other\r\nsignificant
    writing in the field -- to the extent that it is\r\nan indication of what the
    typographers of today think.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   You have my opinion. \r\n>   I am
    not able to speak for my colleagues\r\n\r\ni consider you to be representative
    of them...\r\n\r\nbut what i wanted to hear is your personal opinion,\r\nand the
    strength with which it is held.  so thank you.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   and can offer no
    proof except a library \r\n>   full of contemporary examples in which \r\n>   no
    extra spacing is added between sentences.\r\n\r\nok, you've put the burden on
    me to find exceptions.\r\n\r\ni'll consider any book on the bestseller lists to
    be\r\nfair game, unless you flag off certain publishers\r\nyou feel employ hacks
    who do substandard work.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   Now I will sit back and wait with you
    to see if \r\n>   any other book designers care to \r\n>   offer their opinions
    on the matter.\r\n\r\nlike i said, 3 out of 3 have said \"no extra space\",\r\nso
    that's a clear-enough consensus for my needs,\r\nso -- unless someone weighs in
    on the other side --\r\nlet's just consider the matter resolved for right now.\r\n\r\ni
    have many questions, so let's pace ourselves...     :+)\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-24 21:44:47'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "Ask yourself: What would Bringhurst do?\r\n\r\nThen do it. "
  created: '2009-03-25 00:26:07'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "bringhurst says to do what you think is right.\r\n\r\ni think it's right
    to engage in interaction here.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-25 00:41:18'
- author:
    name: scottsullivan
    picture: 115949
  body: "I was always taught two spaces in elementary school / typing classes. I didn't
    even consider putting one space after a period until I got into design school
    and got yelled at by a professor. it took a while and the one-space habit is only
    now becoming something that I don't have to think about.\r\n\r\n- Scott"
  created: '2009-03-25 20:58:11'
- author:
    name: philippe_g
  body: "Concerning TeX, the fact that authors could directly typeset their articles
    explains TeX's success, but it was not Knuth's aim and he had no \"target market\"
    in mind (he said so in an [[http://maps.aanhet.net/maps/pdf/16_15.pdf|interview]]:
    \"I originally designed TeX just for myself, for <em>The Art of Computer Programming</em>;
    I thought my secretary and I were going to be the only users\"). As he explains
    in one of his articles (see the first article in his book <em>Digital Typography</em>),
    his concern was only in being able to keep the same level of quality for his multi-volume
    book <em>The Art of Computer Programming</em> when his publisher was switching
    away from Monotype machines.\r\n\r\nWhen designing TeX, he attempted to reproduce
    how the previous volumes of <em>The Art of Computer Programming</em> looked. Among
    other things, his books used more space at the end of sentences, so he implemented
    it in TeX. But he went a bit further and also increased the stretchability after
    all punctuation marks. Here's an example from the TeXbook, chap. 12, p. 73:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tex_stretchability_4744.png]\r\n(The
    space after the comma stretches 1.25 more than normal spaces, while the space
    after the period or the exclamation mark stretches 3 times more. Of course, for
    shrinking (first line), it's the contrary: spaces after punctuation shrink less.)\r\n\r\nAs
    already mentioned, using \\frenchspacing disables these features:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tex_stretchability_french_5551.png]"
  created: '2009-03-25 22:16:11'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "Keep this in mind: In the last half of the 19th century, and into the early
    years of the 20th, many USA hand compositors were paid \"by the em.\" That is,
    they were paid by the amount of type they set during a shift. So: to go faster,
    they paid less attention to word spacing. They used wide spaces such as 3-to-em.
    They threw in a whole em after a period. They paid little attention to hyphenation.
    They had learned in a rough-and-tumble way, on the shop floor. There was not a
    class of men (they would have been men then) to look over their shoulders and
    comment on the finer points. And there were few Tschicholds or Schmollers establishing
    house styles. All this was a sure-fire way to assure they'd blow out the work
    and give the appearance that a lot more type had been set. So economics had something
    to do with large spaces after periods. Not in all shops, but in very many.\r\n\r\nDuring
    the first quarter of the 20th century the trade had come under the thoughtful
    influence of men (and a few women by that time) who understood how type works,
    and comps had been trained in more formal apprenticeships, much of that careless
    setting had ceased. The influence of both the Linotype and the Monotype was also
    important, for close setting was more easily accomplished on the machines, and
    hand comps had to emulate it.\r\n\r\nBy the last quarter of the century, the few
    hand comps left in book composing rooms were setting very little text by hand.
    But when we did, we were striving for close spacing, doing final justification
    with copper half-points and even thinner bits of paper, tissue, and card.\r\n\r\n*******\r\nAlso:
    regarding this exchange: \"Ask yourself: What would Bringhurst do? Then do it.\"
    A better bit of advice would be to ask what Bringhurst would do, and then to see
    if his suggestions hold up in the job you are doing and to your own experience
    of type. If what he says does not fit, then come up with your own well-considered
    alternate and see if it works better.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2009-03-26 13:10:28'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> thus if he made it the _default_behavior_ that a sentence-space was larger
    than a word-space, then it was because typographers of that time did too.\r\n\r\nNot
    necessarily. It may just have been that the one or two typographers he asked preferred
    that. Take a look at the ugly Computer Modern typefaces that were generated when
    he went from typesetting to font design in his studies. Charles Bigelow was the
    expert he dealt with on that one, and I am not impressed with the results."
  created: '2009-03-26 14:06:21'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "will said:\r\n>   in the last half of the 19th century, \r\n>   and into
    the early years of the 20th, \r\n>   many usa hand compositors were \r\n>   paid
    \u201Cby the em.\u201D that is, they were \r\n>   paid by the amount of type they
    set \r\n>   during a shift. so: to go faster, they \r\n>   paid less attention
    to word spacing.\r\n\r\nthat may be.  i don't know, it was\r\nbefore my time.
    \ but nonetheless,\r\ni've done some analyses of the type\r\nthat was set in those
    olden days and\r\ni've usually been blown away by the\r\nlevel of accuracy that
    they achieved.\r\n\r\nof course it was not to the exactitude\r\nthat computers
    give us today, but still,\r\nthese guys were doing this _by_hand_.\r\n\r\nthe
    work was laborious and tedious,\r\nyet demanding a complete attention.\r\n\r\nso
    i don't think they were sloppy at all.\r\n\r\nquite to the contrary, their precision\r\nin
    this manual process was incredible,\r\nat least in my opinion...  i could never\r\ndo
    it.  but they did, on a regular basis.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\ndon said:\r\n>   it may
    just have been that the one or \r\n>   two typographers he asked preferred that\r\n\r\nknuth
    is well-known for being fastidious...\r\n\r\nin fact, he's well-known for being
    well-known\r\nfor being fastidious.  you underestimate him...\r\n\r\n\r\n>   charles
    bigelow was the expert he dealt with\r\n\r\ni am told he also worked with hermann
    zapf, and\r\nrichard southall, kris holmes, and matthew carter.\r\nit's my understanding
    -- correct me if i'm wrong --\r\nthat zapf is among the best there have ever been...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-26 17:05:59'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: Then he must not have asked Zapf's advice about word/sentence spacing, because
    Zapf is well known for expounding the virtues of close and even spacing. This
    was one of the fundamental tenets underlying his own HZ composition program.
  created: '2009-03-26 17:52:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I've occasionally produced facsimiles of pre-digital text typography, in
    Quark and InDesign.\r\nI've found that even with a digital version of the same
    face, it's impossible to tweak H&J settings to produce the same spacing and word
    breaks.\r\nIn particular, I've found that in justified setting, the word spacing
    was on average waaaay larger than today. \r\nSo in that kind of setting, where
    a column of text would include many very wide spaces between words, it would be
    problematic to have a single space as the default between sentences, as it would
    look strange if the sentence break happened to fall in a line that was tightly
    spaced. It would draw attention to the visual disparity of pacing in the flow
    of meaning.\r\n\r\nAlso, bear in mind that sentences were longer back in the day,
    and there were fewer paragraph breaks.\r\nSo a good heavy capital letter at the
    beginning of sentences, preceded by an ample amount of space, served to enliven
    the reading experience."
  created: '2009-03-26 17:52:28'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "BTW, I do not mean to come across as hyper-critical of Knuth <em>in toto</em>.
    I have respect for what he has done with TeX and in other areas. I am only being
    critical of this one aspect: wider sentence spacing.\r\n\r\n<cite> > it would
    be problematic to have a single space as the default between sentences,</cite>\r\n\r\nNick
    -- By this do you mean a single, consistent fixed-width space, like \"always a
    quad\" or some such, in reference to what Will was describing above? Remember
    that we've also been talking about single vs. double spacing between sentences.
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-26 18:02:26'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "kentlew said:\r\n>   Then he must not have asked Zapf\u2019s advice \r\n>
    \  about word/sentence spacing, because \r\n>   Zapf is well known for expounding
    the \r\n>   virtues of close and even spacing. This was \r\n>   one of the fundamental
    tenets underlying \r\n>   his own HZ composition program.\r\n\r\nwell, you seem
    to be convinced of what you know.\r\n\r\nlike i said, i'm a blind man feeling
    up an elephant.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nnick said:\r\n>   In particular, I\u2019ve found
    that in justified setting, the \r\n>   word spacing was on average waaaay larger
    than today.\r\n\r\nare you sure it wasn't \"waaaaaaaay\" larger than today?        ;+)\r\n\r\nyeah,
    it's pretty easy to notice that.  they also used much\r\nbigger margins.  today's
    bottom-line publishers like to\r\nsqueeze in as much type on a page as they possibly
    can,\r\nespecially in the airport-bookstore mass-market slabs...\r\n\r\nsomewhere
    between the oceans of whitespace and the\r\ndesert of a too-full page, there _is_
    a happy medium...\r\n\r\n\r\n>   So in that kind of setting, where a column of
    text would \r\n>   include many very wide spaces between words, it would \r\n>
    \  be problematic to have a single space as the default \r\n>   between sentences\r\n\r\nmakes
    sense.  it's also the case that when your wordspace\r\nhas already grown to be
    huge, because of the justification,\r\nyou'd be better off adding a little more
    slack to a \"logical\"\r\nplace -- like the end of a sentence -- than making every\r\nsingle
    wordspace in that line even _bigger_...\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nkentlew said:\r\n>   BTW,
    I do not mean to come across as hyper-critical \r\n>   of Knuth in toto. I have
    respect for what he has done \r\n>   with TeX and in other areas. I am only being
    critical \r\n>   of this one aspect: wider sentence spacing.\r\n\r\nit's not that
    you're being \"critical\".\r\n\r\nit's that your criticism doesn't jibe with what
    we know\r\nto be true about knuth, which is that he is meticulous.\r\npeople who
    are fussy about details are fussy about _all_\r\nof them, not just some of them,
    or even most of them...\r\n\r\nit's simply not believable that he consulted a
    world-class\r\nexpert like zapf, and then -- when it came to one thing,\r\nsentence
    spacing -- he decided to _ignore_ that master.\r\n\r\n\"oh yeah, that hermann,
    you know how he can be about\r\nhis 'even spacing', sometimes that's all he can
    talk about,\r\nespecially once he gets some jagermeister in him, so we\r\njust
    had to cart him to bed so we could do as we pleased.\"\r\n\r\ni mean, it _could_
    be true.  it just doesn't _ring_ true...\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nat any rate, you've
    convinced me that today's designers\r\ndo _not_ use an enlarged sentence-space,
    that you are\r\n_totally_opposed_ to doing it, even if your tools allowed,\r\nand
    they do not, so i'm _fully_ willing to believe that this\r\npractice existed in
    the past and in the past only, and that\r\nis all i wanted to know, so let's put
    this topic to bed, ok?        :+)\r\n\r\nif there's any last word you want to
    get in, please do,\r\nand i will try try try try try not to post here again, ok?
    \         :+)\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-26 18:40:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>... do you mean a single, consistent fixed-width space, </em>\r\n\r\nNo,
    I meant the \"single\" space in a particular line, whatever its absolute dimension
    is. In relation to that, the \"sentence space\" would be greater.\r\n\r\nCompare
    these two pages.\r\n\r\nThe first is a straight scan from a book published in
    1925, set in a Scotch Modern, complete with extra sentence space, to the order
    of 2\xBD--3\xBD times the width of the other spaces in the line. (Actually, that
    introduces another reason for extra space here--it's a good place to pad out the
    line for justification, as there is some leeway, because there is unlikely to
    be another sentence space nearby, which in comparison would draw attention to
    discrepencies in the proportion of the sentence space.)\r\n\r\nIn the second image,
    I have adjusted the lines with sentence breaks so that the sentence space is the
    same as the word spaces. \r\n\r\nDoes this comparison support my contention that
    a larger sentence space creates a more interesting page of text, when there are
    long sentences and no paragraph breaks?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ruskin1_4022.jpg]\r\n.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ruskin2_4300.jpg]"
  created: '2009-03-26 19:59:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick, I think the tightness of leading may also also a factor. In the early
    examples of Roman type in Harry Carters book *all* of them have wide spaces between,
    even the scribal example from 1450. \r\n\r\nI must say it makes me rethink the
    issue, because a lot of them look pretty damn good. But they all have lines closely
    spaced. \r\n\r\nSo I think that the issue of sentence spacing is connected to
    the overall layout. When the lines are tight, it is harder to scan for sentence
    beginning, and also the grey is rather dense, so maybe the sentence spacing helps
    with both problems, which you don't have with more leading.  "
  created: '2009-03-26 20:15:02'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "william said:\r\n>   I think the tightness of leading may also also a factor.\r\n\r\ntry
    this one instead then...\r\n\r\nthe u.r.l. for this is:\r\n>   http://z-m-l.com/go/myant/myantp123.html\r\n\r\nyou
    can look at the scans for every page in the book.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/myantp123_6017.png]"
  created: '2009-03-26 21:45:59'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Nick, extremely good point, something I hadn't even thought of but should
    probably should have been obvious.  Maybe that's why I prefer the double space,
    in my (academic, non-computer forum/correspondence) writing I'm known to to write
    three sentence paragraphs that go for an entire page.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro
    es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB.
    (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2009-03-26 22:55:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I\u2019m known to to write three sentence paragraphs that go for an entire
    page.\r\n\r\n\"Writing should be brief, clear, and to the point.\" --Benjamin
    Franklin \r\n\r\nFranklin, who took his own advice as a writer, as a compositor
    and printer [[http://www.ushistory.org/FRANKLIN/courant/images/18.jpg|gave extra
    space between sentences.]]\r\n\r\nNote the \"solid\" setting. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-26 23:36:13'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Brief and to the point has its virtues sometimes.  But I think in his day,
    \"brief, clear, and to the point\" was just what we'd call long and winded today
    ;-)\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta
    de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2009-03-26 23:51:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">we\u2019d call long and winded today\r\n\r\nRead Franklin. Some were very
    long winded and ornate--not him. He's one of America's best writers, ever. "
  created: '2009-03-27 00:25:34'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "eschew obfuscation.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-27 00:42:14'
- author:
    name: fritzmond
  body: Interesting discussion, but from a practical viewpoint, does anyone know an
    easy method  to remove double spaces after the full point in an InDesign document
    (CS3). We had a terrific freelancer who told me how to do it last year but I've
    lost my notes!
  created: '2009-11-11 23:40:38'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Do a search-and-replace for \".  \" (period-space-space) with \". \" (period-space),
    perhaps?\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-11-12 01:24:01'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "Wow. Such heated discussion over a seemingly simple issue.\r\n\r\nI will
    tell you that I've never set a page where two spaces came after sentences, and
    I remove them when I get copy that has it. But I have purposely used such things
    for effect, as in a personal email. I also use all lowercase a lot in that context.
    I really don't think about it when typing with upper-case first letters for the
    beginning of sentences and proper nouns. But then again, I don't think about it
    when I'm not.\r\n\r\nI should let you all in on a little secret. I don't use no
    capital letter to be revolutionary or spiteful, or thinking that I can teach the
    old guys. Sometimes it just represents laziness, business, or that you're in a
    real hurry. If I'm especially sad or emo, I don't <em>want</em> to use capital
    letters. Like when you're VERY ANGRY you feel like only capitals are better for
    that context.\r\n\r\nAnd I use extra word spaces, and weird uses of carriage returns,
    slashes, ellipses, and so on for breaths, breaks, dramatic pauses, and whatever
    else I feel like. \r\n\r\nBut on some forums and formal (or less personal) correspondence
    I never do this. Most people I know that's between 12 and 20 tend to do this same
    thing.\r\n\r\nAlso, it's annoying when Typophile removes my extra carriage returns.\r\n\r\nBri\xE4n"
  created: '2009-11-12 03:00:52'
date: '2009-03-21 22:31:53'
node_type: forum
title: Time and (double) space

---
