---
author:
  name: tpspoons
body: What language do you think has the most beautiful [[writing systems|alphabet]]?
comments:
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: Sinhalese
  created: '2009-03-22 23:08:18'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Georgian.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos
    damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2009-03-22 23:08:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Korean\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-22 23:14:51'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Elfish
  created: '2009-03-22 23:30:23'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: 'Sanskrit. '
  created: '2009-03-22 23:30:38'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Khmer
  created: '2009-03-23 00:04:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Tibetan, by far.\r\nDistant second: Arabic.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-23 00:52:47'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Pics would be so helpful in something like this  -)
  created: '2009-03-23 00:59:01'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: It's Armenian.  ;)
  created: '2009-03-23 01:07:31'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Sinhalese is pretty darn splendid. Manchu is one of my favourites. The ancient
    Cypriot syllabary reminds me of Matisse paper-cuts, at least how interpreted by
    the Imprimerie nationale. But for sheer, heartbreaking beauty there are few things
    to match the highest quality <a href="http://www.zakariya.net/images/gallery/fullsize/After-Yesari.jpg">nasta'liq</a>.
  created: '2009-03-23 01:52:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sinhalese? The Official Script of Coca-Cola\u2122?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-23 02:23:03'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Overview of some nice ones (including some already mentioned) is [[http://www.omniglot.com/writing/syllabic.htm|here]].
  created: '2009-03-23 03:23:36'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Tibetan and Japanese!
  created: '2009-03-23 10:44:45'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "So far I have seen, Bengali (or Bangla) is the most beautiful script on the
    earth.\r\n\r\n\\\\\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/photographs_5104.jpg]"
  created: '2009-03-23 11:47:10'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I'm partial to the Tamil script myself, but I see how Sinhalese can have
    more fans.\r\n\r\nHow much does calligraphy factor into this? You can find breathtaking
    examples of calligraphy that can make the most mundane of scripts look like the
    most beautiful things on Earth. How would an outsider judge the Latin alphabet
    presented with samples of Roman inscriptions, blackletter, and copperplate calligraphy
    lettering respectively?\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-23 11:47:29'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I think Burmese looks absolutely amazing. Like something that Aliens would
    write.\r\nArmenian is beautiful too."
  created: '2009-03-23 12:01:30'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: I was hoping someone would say Burmese. Travelling there made me realise just
    how different other alphabets can be. It's also really nice to hear spoken, lots
    of fricatives and approximants. And they have a 'creaky' tone!
  created: '2009-03-23 12:29:21'
- author:
    name: radiantice
    picture: 111025
  body: Hanacaraka, the old javanese script
  created: '2009-03-23 13:54:39'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Mongol I think. But which one do you think is the most beautiful on baseball
    caps?\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-23 14:18:14'
- author:
    name: mr
    picture: 112699
  body: Alphabets that you can read are a lot less beautiful than those you can't.
    At least, this has been my experience with Hebrew and Hangeul.
  created: '2009-03-23 15:36:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Indeed. Like how I used to watch Spanish-language TV with great pleasure
    until I actually learned Spanish, at which point I realized they were just saying
    the same crap that was on American TV. Now I watch Korean TV.\r\n\r\nAlso, it's
    worth noting the typical disparity between beauty and functionality. Tibetan for
    example is actually a horrid writing system when it comes to expressing the language.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    David: Japanese?  ;-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-23 15:42:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So, are we too positivist or politically-correct to mention our ugliests?
    \ :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-23 15:49:11'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">So, are we too positivist or politically-correct to mention our ugliests?\r\n\r\nKlingon\r\n\r\n>But
    which one do you think is the most beautiful on baseball caps?\r\n\r\nKlingon
    \r\n"
  created: '2009-03-23 15:53:21'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ms_4083.gif]'
  created: '2009-03-23 16:11:46'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: What is that, David? I'm pretty much in love with the latin alphabet, I guess.
  created: '2009-03-23 16:23:08'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "Mayan is great (though I don't know if it qualifies as an alfabet?)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Mayan_6026.jpg]\r\n\r\nKorean
    is great too, as is Burmese (which I did not know)\r\n\r\ncheerio Queneau"
  created: '2009-03-23 16:36:03'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "Oh and I have to second frank: I'm pretty much in love with the latin alphabet
    as well (it's also the only one that makes sense to me...:-) )\r\n\r\ncheerio
    Queneau"
  created: '2009-03-23 16:37:56'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: Frode -- Samaritan.
  created: '2009-03-23 16:40:56'
- author:
    name: tpspoons
  body: Wow some really great answers, havn't heard of a lot these.
  created: '2009-03-23 17:39:29'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "And what a good Samaritan it is, I love the perpendicular stresses. \r\n\r\n\"Mayan
    is great\"\r\nI love Mayan too, but reading in bed, late at night and turning
    those 128 kg pages is tough. \r\n"
  created: '2009-03-23 17:51:14'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "Inuktitut is not the most beautiful, but I will mention it here in case others
    disagree.\r\n\r\n\r\n[[http://www.omniglot.com/images/langsamples/udhr_inuktitut.gif\"]]"
  created: '2009-03-23 17:55:40'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Latin? Dunno, I think our alphabet is pretty unbeautiful &ndash; a strange
    compilation deriving from various historical sources. Of course, there's the comfort
    of familiarity, but aesthetically speaking, more \"unified\", or \"designed\"
    alphabets seem more appealing to me, more coherent.\r\n\r\n<em>\"So, are we too
    positivist or politically-correct to mention our ugliests?\"</em>\r\nMaybe too
    much in love with writing systems in general? I for one am having a really hard
    time thinking of an ugly alphabet. \r\nHmm, maybe Futhark doesn't seem very aesthetic
    (but still highly interesting of course). I'm not too fond of Hiragana either
    &ndash; Katakana looks way cooler ;-)."
  created: '2009-03-23 17:59:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I love Mayan too, but reading in bed, late at night and turning those 128
    kg pages is tough.\"\r\n\r\nI don't know how Moses did it either, take two tablets
    and call me in the morning :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-23 18:00:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nina, the Latin caps are sublime.\r\nThe lc however is pretty lame.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-23 18:17:25'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Yah, I was looking at the Latin as a complete package, Hrant. The UC/lc disparity
    somehow kills the "design concept" (insert funny smiley here).
  created: '2009-03-23 18:25:27'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CodexRunicus_5134.jpg]\r\n\r\nWhile I
    have to agree the shapes of the fu\xFEark really aren't very pretty in themselves,
    I think they have a great decorative kind of beauty. And when written rather than
    carved in wood or stone, I think they had great potential that were never properly
    developed. Also, one has to admire an alphabet that supposedly were deprecated
    (is that the right word?) around 1300, but still were in daily use in Telemark
    in the early 19th century. The last authentic rune inscriptions were made in Dalarna
    around 1910, supposedly. \r\n\r\nI think the Latin alphabet is beautiful <em>because</em>
    of its inconsistence. And because of its unsurpassed extensibility."
  created: '2009-03-23 18:59:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I actually love the Latin lowercase with its sense of rhythm. Even if it
    came about due to a mishmash of languages, it has a form which includes the planned
    with the accidental.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-23 19:07:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I think the Latin alphabet is beautiful because of its inconsistence.\r\n\r\nThat's
    just apologism.\r\n \r\n> And because of its unsurpassed extensibility.\r\n\r\nIt's
    been extended so much simply because that has helped the West make more money,
    not because of any inherent quality. Furthermore, most of the extensions are quite
    ugly, cumbersome and dysfunctional.\r\n\r\nChris, then I don't understand how
    you could put Hangul on top. (For the record, I love Hangul, but not for its appearance,
    which is what this thread is about, at least to me.)\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBTW, these
    classic Latin chauvinisms and more\r\nare addressed in my Spatium/Hyphen essay.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-23 19:27:40'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Sindre, that sample is a bit unfair (see what Jongseong said about calligraphy
    above). I've got nothing against Futhark, except I don't find the letterforms
    themselves particularly beautiful, and I thought this thread is (ok, was) simply
    about shallow aesthetic considerations. :-)\r\n\r\nChris: You say you love the
    Latin lowercase, but do you also love the combination of UC/lc?"
  created: '2009-03-23 19:42:48'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "> It\u2019s been extended so much simply because that has helped the West
    make more money, not because of any inherent quality.\r\n\r\nThat's a gross oversimplification.
    As languages evolved, they had to reflect the sound changes, while maintaining
    etymological logic and consistency. French, for instance, had evolved to a stage
    were too many words had become homonyms, so accents, cedillas and circumflexes
    were needed. Portuguese and Lithuanian, for instance, lost a lot of final n's
    and m's, which led to the nasalization of the preseding wovels, expressed by adding
    a tilde in Portuguese and an ogonek in Lithuanian. The umlaut of the Germanic
    languages expresses the changed wovel, while keeping the relationship to the root.
    And so on and on. This is the kind of extension I'm talking about. One alphabet
    made usable for several related languages. How did the West make money on Romanian
    putting a circumflex over an a when its pronounciation changed to i, of etymological
    reasons? Brilliant minds have made the Latin alphabet work better than any other
    alphabet in the world. When Turkish was written with Arabic script, it was close
    to incomprehensible, because of the crucial vowel harmony that just could not
    be properly expressed. \r\n\r\n> That\u2019s just apologism.\r\n\r\nNo, it's not.
    That's what I think.  "
  created: '2009-03-23 20:05:58'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Ah, sorry about that, Nina. That's a very valid point, indeed. I guess we
    Norwegians still have some kind of inferiority complex, after all those years
    of Dane rule. You're right, the fu\xFEark is functional (no horizontal strokes,
    that won't work when carving in wood), not pretty. The Turks developed  a [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Old_Turkic_alphabet|very
    similar script]], so did the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Old_Hungarian_script|Hungarians]].
    \ "
  created: '2009-03-23 20:15:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Brilliant minds have made the Latin alphabet\r\n> work better than any
    other alphabet in the world\r\n\r\nThere it is! Cultural chauvinism, which can
    permeate anything, including writing systems. It even causes people to not realize
    for example that the Latin alphabet doesn't even work well for <em>English</em>!
    Nevermind its idiotic hyper-reliance on an x-height. Saddest of all however, such
    chauvinism causes people to rape an entire people's psyche by inventing monstrosities
    like the Vietnamese script.\r\n\r\n> When Turkish was written with Arabic\r\n>
    script, it was close to incomprehensible\r\n\r\nThat's a massive -and convenient-
    exaggeration.\r\nSome people (like Thomas Milo) would even say it's completely
    wrong.\r\n\r\n> No, it\u2019s not. That\u2019s what I think.\r\n\r\nActually,
    it's mostly what you <em>want</em> to <em>feel</em>.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-23 20:17:43'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "> sick monstrosities like the Vietnamese script.\r\n\r\nI <em>knew</em> you
    would bring that up. And I agree 100 per cent. Vietnamese looks like shit (though
    I believe it <em>works</em>). That doesn't make my claim invalid. Concerning English,
    that's the fault of bored monks and halfwits during the middle ages, and a result
    of the sponginess of the English language. That's why it's a great pity that English
    has become the new lingua franca. \r\n\r\n> Some people (like Thomas Milo) would
    even say it\u2019s completely wrong.\r\n\r\nI'd say he's completely wrong. Why
    did teachers use the Latin alphabet in schools <em>before</em> the reform, do
    you think?\r\n\r\n> Actually, it\u2019s mostly what you want to feel.\r\n\r\nHow
    are you going to change that?"
  created: '2009-03-23 20:30:36'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "Hey guys,\r\n\r\nLet's just get back to the topic! It's just a bit of fun,
    not about culture clashing and bashing, or about western superiority/inferiority.
    Just show us the alphabets you like, for whatever reason....\r\n\r\ncheerio Queneau"
  created: '2009-03-23 20:40:28'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Am I alone to think that especially on Typophile, tangents and deviations
    from the original topics often make for the most fruitful and interesting discussions?
  created: '2009-03-23 20:51:42'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "@ Altaira, Maybe you are right about this. I like a good discussion as much
    as you do, I just like to see some nice examples as well ;-)\r\nSo bash away if
    you wish!\r\n\r\ncheerio Queneau"
  created: '2009-03-23 20:55:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Chris: You say you love the Latin lowercase, but do you also love the combination
    of UC/lc?\"\r\n\r\nNina, Yes I do! As much of a technical problem itis to space
    as a type designer, I still love the way it looks and makes a page and still works
    with photos and illustrations. It does not get in the way of them. Evolution by
    un-design can bring things into focus and force us to see their own beauty by
    their opposition.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-23 20:56:12'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "I also really like the Cherokee alphabet, it has some beautiful characters.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/2_4944.jpg]\r\n\r\ncheerio
    Queneau"
  created: '2009-03-23 20:56:36'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: No, you're not alone, Nina. Let's wait for Mr Papazians reply.
  created: '2009-03-23 20:56:56'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Waiting in anticipation.\r\n\r\nChris, but are you sure you wouldn't feel
    the same about any other alphabet that you would happen to grow up with? And then
    stress its particularities as exactly the things you love about it? I mean, if
    I'd grown up with the fu\xFEark and now spent my days and nights typesetting and
    even designing it (funny thought), I might think it's beautiful. Probably because
    of its angularity. :->\r\nWhich would mean that your comment possibly says less
    about Latin than about how we tend to feel about our cultural environment."
  created: '2009-03-23 21:10:19'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: That Cherokee alphabet looks like an <em>extension</em> of the Latin alphabet
    to me. But I know it isn't. The inventor just copied some of the letters, without
    knowing their value.
  created: '2009-03-23 21:16:07'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I'm with Simon, Elvish all the way.
  created: '2009-03-23 21:20:46'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "Cyrillic \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design\r\nNo man is an island
    unto himself_John Donne\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-23 21:24:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Chris, what writing system do you not like?\r\n\r\n> How are you going to
    change that?\r\n\r\nWriting, I guess. (Sorry If I disappoint.)\r\n\r\nBTW, please
    call me Hrant.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-23 21:39:46'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "Does anybody know where I can find a good book\r\nwith the Cyrillic alphabet?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design\r\nNo
    man is an island unto himself_John Donne\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-23 21:44:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Instead of just a book <em>with</em> Cyrillic, what\r\nabout a book about
    Cyrillic type design?\r\nhttp://store.artlebedev.com/books/design/kniga_pro_bykvy/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-23 21:54:18'
- author:
    name: mehallo
    picture: 109684
  body: "Repeating a few, but these really resonate with me ...\r\n\r\nTamil\r\nTelugu\r\nMalayalam\r\nSinhala\r\n\r\n+\r\n\r\nWish
    the way the lowercase \"g\" evolved in Latin sort of also happened with the rest
    of the letters; whereas we could have ended up with more complex \"g\"-like forms
    to play with today.\r\n\r\ns.\r\nmehallo.com\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-23 22:27:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Chris, but are you sure you wouldn\u2019t feel the same about any other
    alphabet that you would happen to grow up with? And then stress its particularities
    as exactly the things you love about it?\"\r\n\r\nActually, my first alphabet
    was Greek. With Greek, I find the capitals too distant in form from the lowercase.
    Granted, they came many years apart. The capitals were more influenced by Phoenician
    culture and the lowercase more Byzantine and Turkish so I can understand the disconnect.
    When it came to typesetting, Europeans had a predominant influence and brought
    the technology after the Greeks were free of the Ottomans. There was no original
    Greek type by native Greeks for years. The caps became very Roman looking but
    the lowercase is its own world. Gerry Leonidas does a brilliant job with describing
    the history and is far better the person to describe it than me.\r\n\r\nGetting
    back to your point, Nina, I feel I am more in love with latin as a graphic designer
    and user of type than I am of its written script and early history. I like the
    pages it makes and the even texture. I like the way it adapts to so many typeforms
    and styles and not so fussy a tradition to follow. I don't see this with large
    quantities of very calligraphic scripts like Arabic or Chinese. To me, Chinese
    looks great in small quantities and is more lovable written with a brush than
    typeset. I must admit that Palatino Arabic, designed by Nadine Chahine, has really
    made me more of a believer in Arabic as a typeface rather than a written script!\r\n\r\nI
    don't think a person can ever escape their early upbringing and feel a level of
    comfort with what they know best. Others can develop a hatred for type coming
    from a culture they blame for some wrongdoing. Blackletter has been given an unfair
    demonic label because many people equate it with the Nazis even though it was
    around for hundreds of years before there was such a group as the Nazis.\r\n\r\nI
    quite readily admit to being a lover of letters or symbols and don't feel any
    need to dislike any in particular. I have grown to like Cyrillic even though it
    is just plain insane as a system that was designed as a whole. There are plenty
    of glyph pairings in Cyrillic that just look stupid together but I guess that
    is what happens when the king makes the decisions and nobody can say, \"Dude,
    that really does not work\" like we can here in the Critique forum. :-)\r\n\r\nWriting
    and typesetting is an outgrowth of culture and therefore subject to strange combinations
    of thought or accident. I just accept this and take my job as a designer to just
    work with it rather than damn the whole culture for daring to differ from what
    I would have done if I were the supreme master, King, Czar, Clergy, Poet, Philosopher,
    Learned Teacher, or Tyrant.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-23 22:34:14'
- author:
    name: exfish
    picture: 114724
  body: "Tengwar.\r\n\r\n\u2014Noam"
  created: '2009-03-23 22:44:48'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"Wish the way the lowercase \u201Cg\u201D evolved in Latin sort of also
    happened with the rest of the letters; whereas we could have ended up with more
    complex \u201Cg\u201D-like forms to play with today.\"</em>\r\n\r\nComplexity?
    Bring it on!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/swirly_5834.jpg]\r\n\r\n(Sorry,
    couldn't resist. ;-) )"
  created: '2009-03-23 22:46:15'
- author:
    name: jlahham
  body: Arabic... no question there. i have some amazing Arabic calligraphy samples
    if anyone is interested.
  created: '2009-03-23 22:47:43'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Mehallo asked for complex lower case forms, Nina. You suppplied him with
    complex <em>upper case</em> forms. That's unfair.\r\n\r\nEdit: Er, not really,
    after re-reading. Withdrawn. Shame on me. Blush."
  created: '2009-03-23 22:56:42'
- author:
    name: Malin
  body: "fu\xFEark & Sinhalese. Discovered both when I was very young, fell in love
    with the looks of them. Thought sinhalese was the most beautiful writing I had
    ever seen, like little mice running over a paper :)"
  created: '2009-03-23 22:57:32'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "No, you're right, Sindre! Argh. Sorry. Shame on <em>me!</em>\r\nI'll spare
    you the lowercase ;-)\r\n\r\nEdit: OK, he said \"with the rest of the letters\"\u2026
    :-)"
  created: '2009-03-23 23:00:57'
- author:
    name: mehallo
    picture: 109684
  body: "an a with a Laotian curl ... \r\nan e with a small swash from Telugu ...
    \r\nit would be blasphemy, but could be fun.\r\n\r\nAnd look at all the new Latin
    parts we get to name! \r\n\r\n(if you thought crotch was funny ...)\r\n\r\n(Maybe
    we just take the accents we have and do something spectacular with them!)\r\n\r\ns.\r\nmehallo.com"
  created: '2009-03-23 23:01:31'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Mehallo: So is anyone then supposed to read that? ;-)\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nChris,
    that was a beautiful declaration of love. :-)\r\nSorry for letting you grow up
    with a different script than you did!\r\n\r\n<em>\"With Greek, I find the capitals
    too distant in form from the lowercase. Granted, they came many years apart.\"</em>\r\nBut
    isn't that exactly the case with Latin too? I agree though that in Greek the difference
    seems even more pronounced, with much \"softer\" forms in the lowercase.\r\n\r\nRegarding
    the adaptability of Latin (vs. more complex scripts) to different styles, that's
    a good point. But this would also hold true for other scripts that have a limited
    character set, limited complexity, and maybe somewhat disconnected lettershapes,
    no? Like Greek. Or Cyrillic. Or many others in fact.* Am I mistaken?\r\n\r\n*
    But I guess sadly, there won't be all that many different styles designed for
    a script unless its \"market\" is large enough to enable a broad type design culture,
    which of course Latin is vastly benefiting from."
  created: '2009-03-23 23:10:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"But isn\u2019t that exactly the case with Latin too? I agree though that
    in Greek the difference seems even more pronounced,\"\r\n\r\nYes, Nina, The Greek
    is orders of magnitude different in its current state still while the Latin has
    grown more familial as time has gone by. There have been centuries of Latin type
    designers around to do many thousands of fonts since Guttenberg. The Greeks had
    to make do with what the Dutch and Brittish could do with existing equipment in
    Greece and this brought numerous limitations including using Latin punches for
    Greek capitals where possible. The Europeans had no malice in their actions, they
    were just making do with the tools available. Without the Latin-script-using Europeans,
    there would have been no Greek type at all for even more centuries.\r\nThe other
    issue is the number of native Greek type designers. How many type designers of
    Latin fonts can you name who are dead, even long dead? How many Greek type designers
    are from more than a century ago? Damn few if any. Almost all native Greek type
    designers are still alive today and most of them are young and just beginning
    their careers. I predict that their influence has not barely begun and will make
    its mark in the decades to come. Most type you have seen which has a Greek character
    set was not designed by Greeks. This will change. Gerry's young students will
    make their names known and there will be a fabulous era of Greek type to come
    soon.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-23 23:45:11'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "@hrant \r\n\r\nAh, thanks for the link. book looks interesting\r\nIts unavailable
    for the moment :(\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design\r\nNo man is an island unto
    himself_John Donne\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-23 23:45:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "That is indeed a fabulous book. I love it and learn what I can from it even
    if there is no English translation available. When I bought it, the shipping from
    Russia cost more than the book,\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-23 23:49:58'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "Quick question, is there a book \r\nabout alphabets from around the world?
    \r\nIf not? Why isn't there one?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design\r\nNo man
    is an island unto himself_John Donne\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-23 23:50:56'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "Man, sometimes you just have to treat yourself.\r\nOf course I have to run
    it by my wife first LOL. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design\r\nNo man is an island
    unto himself_John Donne\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-23 23:53:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"is there a book\r\nabout alphabets from around the world?\"\r\n\r\nBunches,
    do a search on writing systems and alphabets on Amazon or your vendor of choice.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-23 23:57:23'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "I think one objective measure for the aesthetics of a given script is how
    much the people who actually use it day to day care about its presentation --
    which in turn could be measured by how prominent, prevalent and well developed
    the art of calligraphy is for that script. By this standard I believe Chinese
    (and Japanese, which could be considered a variation of Chinese) would clearly
    come first, Arabic probably second.\r\n\r\nAFAIK, nowhere in the world is the
    ratio between the number of professional (full-time) calligraphers versus painters
    nearly as high as in China. Same goes for the ratio between calligraphic versus
    typographic signs and logos (of course I'm not talking about signs that are written
    by hand because there's not enough money to pay for a printed one, I'm talking
    about signs featuring professional calligraphy that usually costs quite a bit).\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-24 00:00:32'
- author:
    name: Nachos
    picture: 116245
  body: How much do you think these alphabets benefit from the calligrapher's hand?
    How bland would they be if they were set in a Courier-like font and we saw them
    every day?
  created: '2009-03-24 00:03:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Henry, FWIW the Armenian alphabet is held in very high esteem by us (not
    least because it helps us fight assimilation). Pretty much every Armenian church
    shows it on one side of the altar, and every schoolchild learns poems etc. about
    it and its creator, Mesrop Mashdots.\r\n\r\nJesse: the trick is to see beyond
    instances of rendering (be they calligraphic, typographic or anything else) to
    what the script is really like.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-24 00:35:09'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Hrant, that reminds me, I spotted a bunch (well okay like 3 lines) of Armenian
    text at the Vatican.  It had some interesting capital ligatures on it.... is this
    common in all caps inscriptions?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/armenian_inscription_4611.jpg]\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2009-03-24 01:20:42'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "Nina: <cite>Regarding the adaptability of Latin (vs. more complex scripts)
    to different styles, that\u2019s a good point. But this would also hold true for
    other scripts that have a limited character set, limited complexity, and maybe
    somewhat disconnected lettershapes, no? Like Greek. Or Cyrillic. Or many others
    in fact.* Am I mistaken?</cite>\r\n\r\nI think they could, potentially, but they
    often don't. My guess is that Hrant's comment about resisting assimilation has
    something to do with it. People using Latin script feel no need to defend it against
    the hegemony of some other culture, so they do all sorts of wacky stuff to it,
    but users of less dominant scripts are often very conservative. Even, ironically,
    when the style being protected is itself a product of past cultural hegemony.
    Cherokee script, for example, is locked into a model based on American typography
    of the early nineteenth century; if you tried to make a Garamond Cherokee or a
    runic Cherokee or a brush-stroke Cherokee, I don't think it would easily be accepted
    as culturally authentic."
  created: '2009-03-24 01:21:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Sindre: <em>That Cherokee alphabet looks like an extension of the Latin alphabet
    to me. But I know it isn\u2019t. The inventor just copied some of the letters,
    without knowing their value.</em>\r\n\r\nThe story is a lot more complicated than
    that. Sequoyah's original design was quite different from the form of Cherokee
    that is most familiar to people. When the script was first cut in type, many of
    the forms were rationalised and, in the process of making them more 'typographic'
    made to resemble Latin letters."
  created: '2009-03-24 02:15:34'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Chris: <em>The Greeks had to make do with what the Dutch and Brittish could
    do with existing equipment in Greece and this brought numerous limitations including
    using Latin punches for Greek capitals where possible. The Europeans had no malice
    in their actions, they were just making do with the tools available. Without the
    Latin-script-using Europeans, there would have been no Greek type at all for even
    more centuries.</em>\r\n\r\nChris, you need to read Konstantine Sta\xEFkos' <em>Charta
    of Greek Printing,</em> which documents the fundamental role of Byzantine refugees
    and other Greek emigres in the development of Greek publishing, beginning in Italy
    and spreading across Europe."
  created: '2009-03-24 02:19:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Matthew, those actually I would call overlapping - which is actually not
    too common in Armenian. But cap ligatures are in fact common, especially in older
    inscriptions.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Geghart_5355.jpg]\r\n\r\nNow
    <em>those</em> are ligatures!  :-)\r\nIncluding triples. Taken at the Geghart
    monastery in the Summer of '07. I got lucky with the moody lighting (there are
    holes in the ceiling, since most of the monastery is carved directly out of the
    side of a mountain, so no windows).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-24 02:53:30'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "Thank you\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design\r\nNo man is an island unto himself_John
    Donne\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-24 03:15:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks, John, I'll look for \"Charta of Greek Printing\"\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nEdit:\r\n\r\nJohn,
    it costs $350, a bit pricey for me :-("
  created: '2009-03-24 04:13:56'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "archaica,\r\n<em>\"People using Latin script feel no need to defend it against
    the hegemony of some other culture, so they do all sorts of wacky stuff to it,
    but users of less dominant scripts are often very conservative.\"</em>\r\nThanks
    &ndash; this is an interesting perspective. I hadn't thought about variety in
    type design that way (more in terms of \"what the market allows for\"). But I
    guess oftentimes the two overlap.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nhenrypijames,\r\n<em>\"I think
    one objective measure for the aesthetics of a given script is how much the people
    who actually use it day to day care about its presentation \u2014 which in turn
    could be measured by how prominent, prevalent and well developed the art of calligraphy
    is for that script\"</em>\r\nDon't you think it should be possible to consider
    the aesthetics of the basic structure of lettershapes without considering their
    case-by-case execution? \r\nBesides, the aesthetic prevalence of calligraphy over
    other tools/executions really is in the eye of the beholder. FWIW, Burmese (which
    I mentioned) looks great to me (printed) even though &ndash;or maybe just because&ndash;
    it seems quite constructed and \"abstract\" in a way, not \"written\". \r\nBut
    I guess that's where personal taste comes in, since we're talking about aesthetics
    only. And that's one realm that I think has very few \"objective measures\". "
  created: '2009-03-24 08:22:00'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "The initial question is a nice provocation. How to measure beauty, apart
    from heralding one\u2019s personal preferences?\r\nYou can hardly compare Sinhala
    to Runes to Latin. And yet \u2013 we do ;-)\r\nFor me, the most beautiful alphabet
    is the classical one. And there is a classical style in Arabic, in Chinese, in
    Latin a.s.o. It may be interesting to compare these particular renderings of different
    scripts. One is likely to find as common features: the grown rather than the constructed
    (which means not: the curly rather than the straight!), a subtle detailing and
    balance between strenght and liveliness. When some do claim here, that they find
    Runes for instance rather not appealing, it may have something to do with the
    fact that the script hardly reached a matured state of classicism (Klassizit\xE4t)
    in history. Which does not mean that it can\u2019t reach that level at all. \r\n
    [img:sites/default/files/old-images/A_Runes#1_6564.jpg]"
  created: '2009-03-24 09:50:12'
- author:
    name: suzannelemon
    picture: 116985
  body: "Tibetan by a mile.\r\n\r\nKhmer has a really nice alphabet too and I love
    the shapes in Korean, but Tibetan is just plain beautiful. \r\n\r\nLet's hope
    the Chinese don't drive it into extinction, eh? "
  created: '2009-03-24 10:39:01'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: 'Hrant, do you have larger shots of the Geghart monastery inscriptions? '
  created: '2009-03-24 14:55:16'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Let\u2019s hope the Chinese don\u2019t drive it into extinction, eh?\r\n\r\nI
    think the opposite might be true. The Chinese government is very active in pushing
    support for the so called \"minority languages\" through standards such as GB18030.\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-24 15:01:36'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'Nina: Does that stuff exist digitally?'
  created: '2009-03-24 15:11:50'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Frode, I doubt it (but hey, you never know \u2013 \r\n<em>that</em> would
    be a digitization project! ;-) )"
  created: '2009-03-24 15:40:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Steve, I have that shot in double that size, but I assume that's not good
    enough. I might have hi-res shots somewhere - I'll check - but I doubt it. What's
    on your mind? If it's important I can have my people* take some photos next time
    one of them makes the trip**. I don't know how the lighting is in Spring - if
    I took that shot mid-morning in Summer, what time in Spring would match?\r\n\r\n*
    Literally and figuratively. :-)\r\n\r\n** Or they might actually have good shots
    already.\r\n\r\n> I think the opposite might be true.\r\n\r\nIndeed - and I think
    the main thing that can really threaten the Tibetan script is Western: chauvinistic
    and/or penny-pinching lack of proper support in software*. That sort of thing
    has caused wholesale abandonment of writing systems (for example emailing in Armenian
    is typically done via ad-hoc Latin transliteration) as well as debasing of scripts
    (as happened with the original Linotype's Arabic).\r\n\r\n* Noting that we're
    <em>still</em> suffering from ASCII-7!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-24 15:52:28'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: 'Re Geghart, if it''s any help (and unless it''s urgent of course): I''ll
    be there in July (insert very many smilies here!) and could take photos then.'
  created: '2009-03-24 15:55:05'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "<cite>What\u2019s on your mind?</cite>\r\n\r\nCuriosity and appreciation
    of form. I studied Armenian for several years, but needless to say, we never encountered
    forms like these! "
  created: '2009-03-24 16:19:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Steve, I didn't know you studied Armenian! (Or I forgot.) If you'd like the
    double-size one (as well as some other shots of Geghart) please remind me of your
    email - hpapazian at gmail dot com\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-24 18:21:54'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "@Hrant:\r\n\r\nI was not talking about the Chinese being proud of their script
    -- obviously, most people in the world are proud of their respective script. I
    was talking about the Chinese giving extra emphasis to -- or one could say, being
    obsessed over -- the aesthetics of their writings. In other words, there's a difference
    between interest in the function and being interest in the form (not that the
    two were mutually exclusive), while the former is universal, the latter is quantitatively
    unique to the Chinese. An intense obsession over the aesthetics, multiplied with
    the ancient age of the Chinese script, would suggest that there has been more
    cumulative effort in improving this script's beauty than any other script."
  created: '2009-03-24 20:54:13'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "Regarding the future of Tibetan, we should separate the social and the technical
    aspect of its development. Socially, the script is undoubtedly dying -- in that
    the number of people reading and writing it on a daily basis is decreasing. On
    the other hand, the vast majority of Tibetans were illiterate before the Communists
    came, so the number of Tibetan who're *able* to read and write Tibetan are most
    certainly a multitude of what it was back then.\r\n\r\nTechnically, as sii has
    noted above, the Chinese government has really done a lot of work for the development
    of \"minority languages\" such as Tibetan, both in classical terms -- building
    dictionaries, creating language education programs, etc. -- and in modern terms
    -- pushing for digital standardization and international accessibility. For instance,
    because a fairly recent Chinese law demands that all computer OS sold in China
    to have display support the full range of the GB18030 encoding standard, the Chinese
    version of Windows comes with an font named \"SimSun (Founder Extended)\" that
    can display Tibetan. (However, I believe one still needs to activate the system
    support for \"complex script\", which isn't activated by default in the Chinese
    version of Windows.)"
  created: '2009-03-24 21:17:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I was talking about the Chinese giving extra emphasis to \u2014 or one
    could say, being obsessed over \u2014 the aesthetics of their writings.</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    term \u2018obsession\u2019 is one that is also used to describe, not always uncritically,
    the Ottoman emphasis on the aesthetics of writing in the Arabic script. Our colleague
    Saad, for instance, regularly accuses the Ottomans of having made a \u2018cult\u2019
    of calligraphic beauty.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-24 23:41:53'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">the Chinese version of Windows comes with \r\n\r\nThat would be Windows
    XP. Vista includes a stand alone font Microsoft Himalaya "
  created: '2009-03-24 23:54:59'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "@John:\r\n\r\nI know, that's why applying the \"calligraphy test\", I ranked
    Arabic second after Chinese. I also think the degree of calligraphic obsession
    can be plausibly explained by the systemic properties of the scripts themselves:
    As the only surviving ideographic script, Chinese has a higher complexity and
    thus a higher potential for calligraphic distortion than any alphabetic script.
    Among the alphabetic scripts, contextual scripts (or \"complex scripts\") have
    the highest potential -- like Arabic, or Tibetan.\r\n\r\nI'd also argue that the
    strong presence of religion encourages calligraphy, because no other kind of texts
    is copied as often and held as highly as religious teachings. When you're copying
    the same text day in, day out, you'd almost automatically start to pay attention
    to the aesthetics of your handwriting -- and that of the original you're copying
    from, if only for some distraction. And because you hold the text highly, you
    feel a special drive to perfect its presentation. It's no coincidence that historically,
    a significant percentage of calligraphers -- of all scripts -- were monks.\r\n\r\n@sii:\r\n\r\nYou're
    right. Of course, at the time the law was enacted, there was no Windows Vista
    yet."
  created: '2009-03-25 00:52:29'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: 'I have to go with Tibetan, in terms of just the aesthetic properties. As
    far as who has the best designed alphabet/syllabry, Korean wins hands down. '
  created: '2009-03-25 07:44:46'
- author:
    name: Tobias_Goth
    picture: 115315
  body: "Korean closely followed by Persian. \r\n\r\nI love type!"
  created: '2009-03-25 08:34:58'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Getting back to this:\r\n<em>\"When some do claim here, that they find Runes
    for instance rather not appealing\"</em>\r\nThat would have been me (hallo, Herr
    St\xF6tzner!). Yes, I found it difficult to think of an alphabet that wouldn't
    appeal very much to me personally, on a purely aesthetic level; the Futhark seemed
    to best fit the bill. I don't find it \"ugly\" per se, but less aesthetically/formally
    enticing than others.\r\nNow on the level of <em>execution,</em> you certainly
    have a point when you say that \"the script hardly reached a matured state of
    classicism\" &ndash; of course its \"pre-classical\" (?) state explains some formal
    features that don't seem very \"aesthetic\" today (at least to me), like somewhat
    unbalanced proportions / shapes along with a usually rather crude execution. \r\nBut
    to be honest, when I made that statement, I was trying to look past the execution,
    at the actual <em>structural vocabulary</em> of the lettershapes &ndash; and that's
    I guess where it really comes down to personal preference (I'm personally not
    a huge fan of diagonal and spikey lettershapes, especially not when they dominate
    a script).* That sounds shallow, as well it is &ndash; but then this thread started
    out being just that. :->\r\nAnd of course it doesn't mean that if I was in Scandinavia,
    running across some ancient Runic inscriptions, I wouldn't gasp with joy.\r\n\r\n-Nina\r\n\r\n*
    I suspect it might also have something to do with the way the individual lettershapes
    are combined into a system, but I can't do a full Futhark analysis at the moment
    as I'm down with the flu & my brain is not being very cooperative."
  created: '2009-03-25 11:42:52'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Great discussion. I really like Satya's Bangla from a purely aesthetic point
    of view... I have no idea how it works in practice. My second vote \u2013 if only
    for the weirdness of its' conception \u2013 would be for <a href=\"http://www.omniglot.com/writing/enochian.htm\">Enochian.</a>
    Seems to combine Elvish, Klingon and maybe even Cherokee."
  created: '2009-03-25 23:24:24'
- author:
    name: ehsaan_sh
  body: "Persian Shekasteh and Persian Nastaliq\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/p03_5732.jpg]"
  created: '2009-03-26 05:42:55'
- author:
    name: mattmatthew
  body: "Kind of a ridiculous thread, when you consider that in the hands of any competent
    letterist/calligrapher/artist, just about any written language can be beautiful.\r\n\r\nAnd
    the reverse is also true.\r\n\r\nI think writing in general is just a beautiful
    thing.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-01 07:51:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nah, some scripts are just dog-ugly no matter how hard you try.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-01 14:57:11'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Latin\r\n\r\n;-)"
  created: '2009-04-01 18:51:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I don't know about alphabets, but the scripts with the greatest tradition
    of calligraphy are Arabic and Chinese. \r\n\r\nBecause the brush is a more sensitive
    instrument than the pen, the expressive power of Chinese writing is arguably on
    the top. Even today in China there are exhibitions in museums of scrolls with
    calligraphy only, and it is often prized even more than pictorial painting with
    the brush, and calligraphy-only scrolls are bought and hung on walls as paintings
    would be. \r\n\r\nEven with Arabic, which is the only rival, I don't think you
    quite have that phenomenon, though I'm not familiar enough with Arab countries
    to know. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-03 13:26:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Because the brush is a more sensitive instrument than the pen\r\n\r\nAh,
    but an even more sensitive instrument -by some\r\norders of magnitude- is the
    human mind coupled to a\r\nmeans of making outlines! It is so sensitive, that
    it\r\nscares most people from trying to truly grasp it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-03 16:25:55'
- author:
    name: Esmaeel
    picture: 117103
  body: "Persian has very diffrent fonts, but one of the best ones is : \"shekaste-nastaliq\".\r\n:
    see : [[http://alijsh.googlepages.com/shekste_nastaliq.jpg]]"
  created: '2009-04-04 11:04:36'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "@ When Turkish was written with Arabic script, it was close to incomprehensible,
    because of the crucial vowel harmony that just could not be properly expressed.
    \r\n\r\n\r\nNo doubt, Mostafa Atatork + Khir Johari were from Norway!\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.asiafinest.com/forum/index.php?showtopic=159294\">Tracing the
    Origins</a>"
  created: '2009-04-06 05:52:47'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Ah, but an even more sensitive instrument [...] - is the human mind coupled
    to a means of making outlines! It is so sensitive, that it scares most people
    from trying to truly grasp it.\"\r\n\r\nI hear you, but I don't you think that
    the line is so <em>insensitive</em>, i.e. compared to the traditional UI to \"drawing\",
    that it scares most people from trying to truly grasp it? Most of those who overcome
    their fear, fail after all, from lack of \"touch\" between the workings of the
    hand drawing the line, and the markings of the machines interpreting those lines...\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-06 13:54:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Most of those who overcome their fear, fail after all, from lack of \u201Ctouch\u201D
    between the workings of the hand drawing the line, and the markings of the machines
    interpreting those lines...\r\n\r\n\r\nThat is intriguing. Could you clarify what
    that \"touch\" is with some examples of success and failure in achieving it? "
  created: '2009-04-06 14:19:38'
- author:
    name: letterface
    picture: 117011
  body: "Vietnamese has been mentioned here, but some of the comments seem a little
    unjust to me. It does look like the measles, it's true, but the Vietnamese have
    learnt to write it with the same beauty and care that they once bestowed on Chu
    Nom. I've been trying to find out more about Vietnamese calligraphy in Quoc Ngu,
    but I've not been able to find a single book on the subject (not one at SOAS library
    in London!), or even any high res examples. Can anybody help? If I just append
    some links below, you might end up agreeing with me that the world's most beautiful
    alphabet is that of Vietnamese!\r\n\r\nhttp://www.svcsaigon.com/index.php?thuphap=DetailView&cid=742&catid=23&PHPSESSID=cbd09811f1f62dea953c3b9299a38f3e\r\n\r\nfor
    example, or just Google Image \"thu phap\" (calligraphy), and there are just some
    wonderful results.\r\n\r\nTurkish calligraphy has shown some similar developments
    - compare Emin Bar\u0131n's awe-inspiring creations inspired by Ottoman forms
    and methods, but using modern Turkish letters.\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-10 22:43:02'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Just Linking with Flowers\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/56903\r\nhttp://www.logosdictionary.org/pls/dictionary/new_dictionary.gdic.st?phrase_code=6071967\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/19348#comment-120534\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-12 11:32:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Only if done by a lovely hand model :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-04-12 16:52:58'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "I <em>think</em> I may have a trump:\r\n\r\n[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7gSZfW4gVhI|Sign
    language]]\r\n\r\nIf you make it to the end, her mother raises an absolutely fascinating
    research question:\r\n\r\nDoes teaching sign language to children inhibit their
    verbal language acquisition?"
  created: '2009-04-12 17:19:15'
- author:
    name: Grammatiker
  body: "\"Does teaching sign language to children inhibit their verbal language acquisition?\"\r\n\r\nI
    wouldn't think so. The same regions of the brain are involved with sign language
    as in verbal language, and so it should be no different than a child learning
    two spoken languages simultaneously."
  created: '2010-08-20 20:23:30'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Malayalam, Tibetan, Ethiopic, Armenian, and Georgian are all beautiful in
    their own ways.\r\n\r\nDespite our own Latin script having the upper-case and
    lower-case dichotomy to cope with, however, many very beautiful typefaces have
    been made for it. Thus, it may well be possible to make a beautiful typeface for
    the ancient Semitic (i.e. Phoenician) alphabet, even though it looks unprepossessing
    in the usual representation, made to resemble the way it looks in actual inscriptions.\r\n\r\nThe
    Tibetan writing system involves some quite complicated rules that seem bizarre
    to us, because they can lead to significant changes in the value of some consonants,
    but Tibetan follows its rules, which gives it an advantage over English."
  created: '2010-08-20 21:32:56'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: 'letters in any particular type of alphabet or script are more like general
    concepts of shapes than specific shapes carved in stone or drawn on a page. It
    seems to me that whether it is beautiful or not depends on how a particular example
    of an alphabet is designed and rendered more than anything else, so I kind of
    don''t get the question. '
  created: '2010-08-21 15:49:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Does teaching sign language to children inhibit their verbal language acquisition?\"\r\n\r\nMy
    son is autistic and had no language ability until he was 4 years old. Just before
    that, we began to teach him a few signs.  Somehow, the digital manipulation in
    signing made a connection to verbal areas of the brain. He began to speak and
    signing was a big help--if not the cause or catalyst that bridged the divide for
    him."
  created: '2010-08-23 18:23:08'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Russell, you don't think there can be beauty in structures and concepts?
  created: '2010-08-24 09:30:03'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Of course, but I believe it's there in every scrip and alphabet \u2014 In
    the abstract.\r\n\r\nWhat makes it visually appealing (or or otherwise ) is as
    far as I can see, a quality that a designer or calligrapher brings to it. \r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2010-08-24 14:43:01'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Concerning Hrant's post about Tibetan:\r\n\r\nI was looking on YouTube for
    any examples of Malayalam music where the name of the video was in Malayalam.
    But it seemed like in all cases, the videos were in English. (Of course, unlike
    Malayalam, English is an official language in India, and it is the one widely
    used in Kerala, the home of Malayalam, since Malalam is a Dravidian language,
    and thus not closely related to Hindi.)\r\n\r\nThe only videos I found with Malayalam
    titles at first seemed to be someone's baby pictures, but I suspect they were
    of children available for adoption.\r\n\r\nAs for Tibetan specifically, while
    the Chinese are preserving it in some ways, the economic and educational dominance
    of Mandarin is still a threat to the long-term survival of the Tibetan language."
  created: '2010-08-25 15:35:08'
- author:
    name: Ujjwol
  body: "Devan\u0101gar\u012B"
  created: '2010-09-21 14:53:58'
date: '2009-03-22 22:39:24'
node_type: forum
title: Most beautiful alphabet?

---
