---
author:
  name: russellm
  picture: 111614
body: "<a href=http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/24/nyregion/24names.html>Link posted
  on Design Observer. NY Times article </a> about the design process for New York
  World Trade Center memorial.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>In the end, the designers decided
  that cut-out letters would work best for rubbings and could be effectively back-lit
  at night. (The typeface they chose, Optima, was designed by Hermann Zapf in 1958.)
  Raised letters will indicate categories like Flight 11, North Tower or Engine Company
  10.\r\n\r\nEven an element so minute had a meaningful consequence. \u201CA big part
  of the whole issue are the rubbings that people will want to take of the names,\u201D
  Mr. Rog\xE9r said. \u201CThat was something we never wanted to lose.\u201D\r\n</cite>[NY
  Times]\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'Rubbings seem to be a pre-camera-in-cell-phone thing. But perhaps it''s still
    the tangible preference. '
  created: '2009-03-25 17:19:57'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "There's the tactile aspect of a rubbing, but I don't think it would have
    \ occured to many people to to make a rubbing without the suggestion that they
    may want to do it.\r\n\r\n\r\nAs they come \"out of the box\" the edges of cut
    metal letters will chew your average piece of cartage paper to bits, \r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2009-03-25 17:28:24'
- author:
    name: Plaidjaney
  body: 'I think for families of the victims that had nothing physical to bury (most
    were empty coffins with mementos inside) this might finally be something tangible
    and connecting. '
  created: '2009-03-25 18:01:51'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Optima proved itself in 'Nam. Good choice IMHO.
  created: '2009-03-25 18:04:41'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "So is there something wrong with using Optima? Maybe I just missed something.
    \r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n\r\n[[http://www.thefontry.com|<em>...from the Fontry
    </em>]]"
  created: '2009-03-25 18:49:14'
- author:
    name: chrisherron
    picture: 116711
  body: Having been to the Vietnam Memorial in DC several times, it is safe to say
    that victims' families will take rubbings at least as often as they take cell
    phone photos.
  created: '2009-03-25 18:52:10'
- author:
    name: microspective
    picture: 111866
  body: "I agree with sii.\r\n\r\nThough some may say an American face should have
    been chosen (Gotham, for example, or any of the myriad others [no, not <em>that</em>
    Myriad]), I think Optima has an arguably American feel to it.\r\n\r\nBut more
    importantly, why \"seriously?\" in regard to Optima? Sure it's overused, happens
    to be a system font, and lots of other appropriate faces could have been used,
    but really, this is a great example of the right tool for the job (which, after
    all, is one of the tenets of good typography)."
  created: '2009-03-25 19:02:06'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "There is nothing \"wrong\" with Optima, in the same way there is nothing
    wrong with many other possible choices, but, it is somewhat overused and cliche
    in this type of project, and I do think that does count for something. \r\n\r\nIM(always)HO\r\n:o)\r\n\r\nIf
    I was being too cute with the title, I apologize.\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2009-03-25 23:04:17'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Out of curiosity, regarding rubbings at the Vietnam Memorial, how large are
    the letters, what do people use to make the impressions and how kind are the letters
    to the paper that people use. \r\n\r\nThere really is something about a rubbing
    that a cell phone pic just can't bring. \r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2009-03-25 23:11:30'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I googled a few pics using live search - some of these images indicate the
    scale... \r\n\r\nhttp://search.live.com/images/results.aspx?q=vietnam+memorial
    \r\n\r\nalso\r\n\r\nhttp://search.live.com/images/results.aspx?q=vietnam+memorial+rubbing"
  created: '2009-03-25 23:53:25'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "I was quite moved when, on my first visit to the Vietnam Veterans Memorial
    in D.C., I saw a man touching someone's name on the wall. Plaidjaney's comment
    about families finally having something tangible is spot-on.\r\n\r\nAlso, Optima
    may seem clich\xE9d and overused to many typomaniacs, but that doesn't make it
    a bad choice. The intended audience is everybody (i.e., the general public, not
    just typophiles), and the face is a dignified-looking choice for a memorial."
  created: '2009-03-26 01:24:24'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Optima is a wonderful typeface, and a great choice. Let's not forget that
    its origins are on a gravestone in an italian church.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2009-03-26 08:11:03'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: I didn't know that, David. Thanks for the info.
  created: '2009-03-26 11:53:12'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: I thought the inspiration was inscriptions at Santa Croce, not gravestones.
    I suppose those inscriptions are likely to be memorial. And maybe David's use
    of the term "gravestones" is just a translation thing, but it conjures up a different
    image in my mind, here in New England.
  created: '2009-03-26 12:18:49'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Like I commented on the [[http://blog.myfonts.com/748|MyFonts blog post]]
    about this subject, I would probably commission a custom typeface for the monument.
    It seems to me something unique would be perfect for it.
  created: '2009-03-26 14:12:44'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "Considering that the decision was done by a committee, Optima is probably
    a wonderful choice. If they had waited on a committee to commission a custom font
    they might never get done.\r\n\r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n\r\n[[http://www.thefontry.com|<em>...from
    the Fontry </em>]]"
  created: '2009-03-26 14:20:49'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Gravestones, as in \"a big piece of stone with inscriptions on it, placed
    above a hole inside of which lays a coffin with a dead person inside\", in Santa
    Croce. Am I translating wrong?\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2009-03-26 14:29:37'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "You might find these 2 docs interesting: first is a photo of the interior
    of Santa Croce Basilica (in Firenze), and on the floor, you can see the gravestone
    (in Roman churches, it is a very common view to see gravestones of important people
    on the very floor of the church; most of the time an early priest, William the
    Conqueror on the floor of Abbaye aux Hommes in Caen / Normandy, Grace Kelly in
    Monaco, etc). On the second photo, you'll see a close-up of the gravestone. That's
    THIS gravestone Hermann Zapf used to design Optima. By looking at the letters,
    one can understand the genius of Zapf - Optima is quite different and refined
    IMHO.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Santa_Croce_interior_5978.JPG.jpeg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IMG_1211-768121_4238.JPG.jpeg]\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2009-03-26 14:43:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'The caps of Optima are great on the Viet Nam memorial. The lower case, which
    is also great in my opinion, has a certain delicacy that a caps-only use does
    not. So caps-only has a somewhat different character, giving more strength and
    gravity.  '
  created: '2009-03-26 14:56:57'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Thank you David R! I've heard Bringhurst speak about that very spot when
    he spoke one time, and I've always wanted a chance to see it.\r\n\r\nLooking at
    those letterforms, I'd almost want to see something MORE like what is on the floor."
  created: '2009-03-26 15:07:05'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "No, you're right, David. My mistake. \"Gravestone\" would indeed be an apt
    term. I hadn't been in Santa Croce and had imagined, from the accounts I'd read
    previously, a different part of the church -- for instance, an inscription above
    the apse or something. \r\n\r\nThanks for the wonderful photos.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-26 17:27:16'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: "Beorcana.\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\nhttp://www.hewnandhammered.com"
  created: '2009-03-26 17:44:39'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>Considering that the decision was done by a committee, Optima is probably
    a wonderful choice. If they had waited on a committee to commission a custom font
    they might never get done.Considering that the decision was done by a committee,
    Optima is probably a wonderful choice. If they had waited on a committee to commission
    a custom font they might never get done.</em>\r\n\r\nWell, considering they have
    already been at it for like 8 years, another year or so isn't really a problem..."
  created: '2009-03-26 18:34:45'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I think if they'd gone with a custom font, one that was paid market-rate
    for, there would have likely been an outcry in the press - see this in the UK
    from time to time when government agencies pay for custom type.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-1025876/Taxpayers-face-50-000-British-Council-new-typeface.html
    \ "
  created: '2009-03-26 19:35:30'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "I composed a code poem to help committees select their typefaces for public
    monuments:\r\n\r\n<code>\r\nvar type;\r\nvar customType;\r\nvar modernType;\r\nvar
    classicType;\r\n\r\ntype = customType;\r\n\r\nif (customType == \"pork barrel\")
    {\r\n\ttype = modernType;\r\n\t}\r\n\r\nif (modernType == \"can't agree\") {\r\n\ttype
    = classicType;\r\n\t}\r\n\r\nif (classicType == \"cliche\") {\r\n\tvar boring
    = \"too bad\";\r\n\ttype = classicType;\r\n\t}\r\n</code>"
  created: '2009-03-26 20:03:06'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>I think if they\u2019d gone with a custom font, one that was paid market-rate
    for, there would have likely been an outcry in the press - see this in the UK
    from time to time when government agencies pay for custom type.</em>\r\n\r\nIt
    is estimated the memorial and all that belongs to it will cost something like
    US$500 million, and another US$40 million per year to operate it... \r\nI don't
    think an additional $60k or so (more or less the price in that dailymail article)
    for a custom typeface makes much of a difference... ;)"
  created: '2009-03-27 02:55:26'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Maybe, but people seem to get sidetracked by the $5,000 toilet seat or the
    million dollar bonus and don''t look at the trillions being flushed away elsewhere. '
  created: '2009-03-27 03:19:26'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "You can't expect much from the Daily Hate sii. The gross error in the article
    is not to attack the fee but the <em>value.</em>\r\nStrangely the author provides
    evidence contrary to the point of the article by quoting the spokesperson who
    states it is cheaper to license that way. However \xA350,000 does sound quite
    steep, is that the going rate?\r\n\r\nThanks for the photos David."
  created: '2009-03-27 12:12:40'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "And \xA385,000 for the logo?"
  created: '2009-03-27 12:15:51'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "russellm: \"I don\u2019t think it would have occured to many people [] to
    make a rubbing without the suggestion that they may want to do it.\"\r\nYou are
    kidding right?\r\n\r\n\"Considering that the decision was done by a committee,
    Optima is probably a wonderful choice.\"\r\nThough I am certain that the VM font
    was <em>approved by</em>, I'm pretty sure that the Vietnam War Memorial font was
    <strong>not</strong> <em>chosen</em> by committee. It was chosen by Fud, (not
    the Department of Fonts and Urban Development). \r\n\r\nHere's something kind
    of funny, sad, disrespectful and PhoniShop all in one. \r\nhttp://www.sdvietnamwarmemorial.com/\r\nNotice
    how the whisps of cloud and proud banner flies over, the elegant, hu?\r\n\r\nDavid:
    \"On the second photo, you\u2019ll see a close-up of the gravestone. \" \r\nThis
    was not carved or penned, as you can see, so Optima must have many influences.
    \r\nThis and most of the old floor type was incised and inlaid.\r\n\r\nBill: \"So
    caps-only has a somewhat different character,\"\r\n...and a different tradition
    entirely due to monuments erected before the l.c. was around, perhaps.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-27 12:37:11'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">It was chosen by Fud\r\n\r\nI thought it was chosen by the architect Maya
    Ying Lin? \r\n\r\n>You can\u2019t expect much from the Daily Hate sii. The gross
    error in the article is not to attack the fee but the value.\r\n\r\nTotally agree
    - when I posted a link to the article last year I wrote...\r\n\r\nBritish Council
    Sans\r\nLondon, UK - 11 June 2008\r\nNew custom typeface, created by Monotype
    UK has apparently saved British tax-payers \xA3450,000 in font license fees."
  created: '2009-03-27 13:35:06'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "@ dberlow,\r\n\r\nNO, of course I wasn't kidding. I really don't see a lot
    of peoople taking rubbings off of monuments, AND, In Canadian, and we just just
    don't do that. :o)\r\n\r\nBut if you read on, you may have noticed I have read
    & learned from the comments of others and changed my point of view on that. I'm
    still courious about what sort of materials people bring with them to do that.
    \r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2009-03-27 14:36:57'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I\u2019m still courious about what sort of materials people bring with them
    to do that. \r\n\r\nDid you look at the images I linked to? Seems as if there's
    official paper for people to use, maybe official wax crayons too?"
  created: '2009-03-27 14:43:25'
- author:
    name: chrisherron
    picture: 116711
  body: At the Vietnam War Memorial in DC, people bring materials for rubbings, but
    if I recall correctly, there are also materials provided (along with a ledger
    listing all the soldiers, and the locations of their names).
  created: '2009-03-27 14:51:52'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "BTW for an excellent documentary on the Vietnam Veterans' Memorial, see the
    first hour of [[http://www.americanfilmfoundation.com/order/maya_lin.shtml|Maya
    Lin - A Strong Clear Vision]]. But I don't recall that anything about the typeface
    is mentioned in it. \r\nLooks like her [[http://www.loc.gov/exhibits/treasures/images/tlc0135.jpg|original
    proposal]] envisioned something more Trajanesque."
  created: '2009-03-27 15:14:50'
- author:
    name: nab
    picture: 116639
  body: "yes chrisherron you're right they do provide paper and a ledger at the vietnam
    memorial...\r\nit has a been a popular thing in the states to do the memorial/tombstone
    rubbing so it seems normal that this would be the case at the WTC memorial as
    well...for many many many years people have also done tombstone rubbings, i suppose
    as personal keepsakes/memories...and in england <a href=\"http://www.history.uk.com/brass_rubbing/\">
    brass rubbings </a> have been done for years and years...\r\n\r\nas far as optima
    it does seem appropriate, not that i am a big fan of the font (due to the overuse
    of it at a company i worked for!)...but it hearkens back to classic roman letterforms
    (ie: roman square caps)..."
  created: '2009-03-27 15:59:14'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I recall Prof Twyman scolding some of my fellow Reading undergrads on the
    field trip to Rome, for taking rubbings \u2013 \u201Cthe department has a fine
    collection of professional rubbings from all of these inscriptions\u201D or words
    to that effect. And he was right. I assume the rubbings are still there in a dusty
    drawer somewhere. "
  created: '2009-03-27 16:38:12'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: "With respect to those posting good information about Optima's pedigree, and
    admitting that the font looks better in use for this project than it seemed to
    me it would before I saw the images:\r\n\r\nThe connection to Lin's Vietman memorial
    is <em>precisely</em> the reason why I think Optima is a bad choice. Most people
    in the US would not be able to tell you Optima's name, but they have seen images
    of the memorial (if they haven't been there themselves), and seeing the font in
    political and military contexts inevitably evokes the memorial, and by extension,
    people's opinions about the war. I am convinced that this is why McCain's campaign
    chose Optima, and why they used it light against dark--to evoke the memorial,
    the war, and people's memories about the war, hence to associate McCain with his
    fallen fellow servicemen and -women and to activate the emotions and issues and
    divisions people used during and after the war to frame political questions and
    sort information about the 2008 presidential campaign.\r\n\r\nNo matter where
    you stand on the so-called 'global war on terror', and no matter what you think
    about Vietnam and about the political divisions in the US it prompted and reinforced,
    those emotions and issues and divisions are not an appropriate way to frame the
    September 11 attacks. The people who died in the crashes and collapse were not
    analogous to soldiers, the hijackers were not analogous to the Viet Cong or the
    NVA, al-Qaeda and the Islamist movement are not analogous to Chinese or Soviet
    communism, and the fights over how to respond to terrorism not analogous to the
    debates in the US between the hawks and the doves. \r\n\r\nTo draw the connection
    on purpose, even in a subtle way, is to invite people to remember the attacks
    and evaluate policy and events in the intervening years in an unproductive and
    misleading way at best. At worst, it reinforces the efforts of those in the US
    who would like nothing more than to relive the last 40+ years of American political-culture
    warfare on a global stage, with new names for the antagonists.\r\n\r\nThe board
    should have stuck with Scala."
  created: '2009-03-27 18:24:20'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Optima is so widely used that it is not identified particularly with the
    Vietnam memorial. Type fans know it because they are surprised how beautifully
    it works when they see it. Well, at least I was. \r\n\r\nBut there is no general
    identification of this font, with its somewhat feminine lower case, with militarism."
  created: '2009-03-27 18:37:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Nice pictures of Santa Croce, David. My immediate response was 'Someone throw
    out those people wearing shorts!' :)
  created: '2009-03-27 18:46:21'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">But there is no general identification of this font, with its somewhat feminine
    lower case, with militarism.\r\n\r\nYep. During the campaign I don't think many
    bloggers or reporters focused on the link. If they mentioned the font they made
    a connection to cosmetics not the wall.\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-27 18:47:58'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Hmmm, doing a web search for \"mccain optima vietnam memorial\" it seems
    as if before my \"coincidence\" comment to the LA Times few people made the connection.
    \r\n\r\nSo one would have thought if the plan was for people to make the connection
    the McCain folks would have planted the seed and there would have been more buzz
    before that March 2008 article. \r\n\r\nEither that or I'm the McCain patsy! Yikes!"
  created: '2009-03-27 18:59:34'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: "It's not militarism I'm talking about; the issue isn't that visitors will
    somehow see Optima and want to kill terrorists harder. It's that a memorial to
    the victims of the September 11 attacks uses an important part of the design vocabulary
    of a prominent national monument to the soldiers who died in another war, in a
    way that I think unmistakably and inappropriately evokes in the viewer's mind
    that other war as a framework for interpreting the September 11 attacks.\r\n\r\nDo
    people here think that visitors to the site will not draw the connection? As a
    designer, do you think that the meaning and significance of the elements you use
    in a design are purely a matter of the history and contexts you as the designer
    choose to think about (basilicas in Firenze and German type designers, not wars
    in SE Asia and black granite memorial walls) and not what people who see what
    you do bring to your design? It doesn't matter that they won't know Optima's name.
    William's right that Optima gets used in many contexts that don't evoke Lin's
    memorial. But in <em>memorial</em> contexts, where the viewer is invited to <em>mourn
    people who died</em>, the connection is immediate (if not wholly conscious).\r\n\r\nPeople
    respond automatically and emotionally to elements of design all the time, based
    on their personal experience and the culture they share with others; designers
    make choices about what elements to include in their work based on the assumption
    that they do. Why should we think that isn't true here?"
  created: '2009-03-27 19:10:20'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: I should have said, mourn people who died <em>violently</em>.
  created: '2009-03-27 19:14:14'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Why should we think that isn\u2019t true here?\r\nWell for one thing, the
    choices at the time were severely limited.\r\n\r\n>I thought it was chosen by
    the architect Maya Ying Lin?\r\nAnd how do you s'pose she managed that?\r\n\r\nMaurice,
    the memorial to the victims of the September 11 attacks uses an important part
    of the design vocabulary that was there before the Vietnam Memorial, Vietnam,
    and even France. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-27 19:30:00'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: "Look, let me give you an example of how well people recognize graphic elements,
    even <em>out</em> of context. A fellow student of my wife's in the design class
    she's taking now submitted the following as a logo proposal for Champaign, IL's
    150th year celebration in 2010 (this is not a crit, so lay off if you don't like
    it):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logo2rev2_6139.jpg]\r\nA person
    on the city steering committee, the folks making decisions about (among other
    things) the logo they want to use for the graphic material for the celebrations,
    said, \"No way. That thing looks like the wrong kind of rising sun.\" I don't
    know that it necessarily means that the committee shouldn't have considered the
    design, but you have to admit, he was right on:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/japan_wwii_iwojima_flag_4183.jpg]\r\nPeople
    speak design better than a lot of supposedly more informed people give them credit
    for."
  created: '2009-03-27 19:33:13'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">And how do you s\u2019pose she managed that?\r\n\r\nEarly 80's... hm, I'd
    guess flipping through Letraset books?"
  created: '2009-03-27 19:34:56'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: Come on, David. We're not talking about the letterforms of Roman capitals.
    We're talking about a specific and noteworthy typeface, being used in a very prominent
    way, in the context of remembering events with dramatic world-historical, political,
    cultural, and intensely emotional consequences.
  created: '2009-03-27 19:37:05'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'I guess the problem with these subliminal connections is that they''re hard
    to prove. Although I suspect you could set up an experiment to determine that
    connections are statistically significant. Might be as simple as giving a group
    of people a list of names set in Optima and asking them to say the first thing
    that pops into their minds. Compare this with the results from people who get
    the same list in Trajan. '
  created: '2009-03-27 19:44:13'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Well, having gown up in Champaign, I know that City Hall, in the picture,
    is on the north side of the street, and you never see the sun rising over it :)
    \r\n\r\nAlso it's not a sky scraper, not that great a building, and not typical
    of the look of downtown Champaign. \r\n\r\nAnd the \"Champaign\" has too light
    type. Other than that, it's great.\r\n\r\nOh and everybody's a critic :) \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-27 19:47:28'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: "Sii, I don't know that it needs to be measured so precisely as that. By itself,
    that the font brings something directly to the front of a viewer's consciousness,
    or not, may not matter.\r\n\r\nThe combination of graphic elements in a space
    tells people in that space how those who made it expect them to think and feel
    about being there. If an important element in that combination brings in the frames
    of affect and memory (I am arguing) Optima conjures up in the American context,
    then those frames become part of that expectation.\r\n\r\n(Of course, the combination
    of graphic elements in a space can tell people in it all sorts of things, including
    that the people who made it don't care about how they think and feel, or that
    the people who made it don't speak the language of graphic elements very well.
    I think the design team in the case of the NY memorial is doing things more thoughtfully
    than that. I just think using Optima is doing it wrong.)"
  created: '2009-03-27 19:56:45'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: William, from what I know about the brief my wife's class got from the city,
    let's just say that the students had to work very creatively with things like,
    say, geography.
  created: '2009-03-27 20:00:39'
- author:
    name: Alvin Martinez
    picture: 110768
  body: "Outside of the fact that Optima is associated with the Vietnam Memorial,
    I see no reason why it should be considered a bad choice. As someone mentioned
    earlier, it did the job,\u2026and did it eloquently in the context of the larger
    design. On the other hand, choosing another typeface that would set's its identity
    apart from the other well-known memorial could have been the better way to go.
    \r\n\r\nThe larger question that has to be asked in this debate though,\u2026is
    whether the average public, and more importantly the families of the victims,
    really going to care?"
  created: '2009-03-30 04:09:03'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "a little late:\r\n\r\n@sii\r\n\r\n<cite>I googled a few pics using live search...\r\n\r\nis
    that not a contradiction of terms? ;-)"
  created: '2009-03-30 05:34:30'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Oops a typo, I wouldn't deliberately undermine Google's trademark. \r\n"
  created: '2009-03-30 05:57:52'
date: '2009-03-25 17:16:39'
title: Optima? serioulsy?

---
