---
author:
  name: G T
  picture: 128201
body: "Saw this and thought of you people and wondered what you'd have to say on the
  subject;\r\nhttp://www.good.is/?p=8133\r\n\r\nIs learning to handwrite important
  in the understanding of words and communication? or, should we now learn to touch-type
  from an early age? \r\n\r\nMy instant thought is that handwriting is important.
  Especially in making notes of ideas or phone numbers etc, but thats probably just
  because its how I was educated I guess. \r\n\r\nMaybe I'll experiment with not using
  a pen or pencil for a week (except drawing) and just using stickies and notes (though
  perhaps I should buy some piece of i-phone/blackberry type technology first\u2026)"
comments:
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "\"I have yet to be convinced that making a graphite stick go in certain directions
    enhances intellectual development.\"\r\n\r\nHeresy, idiocy the sky is falling.\r\n\r\nJust
    kidding. As a calligrapher/lettering artist with both feet in the computer age
    I look at their opinion and just smile. I wonder if, in the future, there will
    be a correlation between never having picked up a graphite stick and never having
    gone to bed with a \"good book?\"\r\n\r\nI know one thing... my kids never washed
    a dish with a sponge and soap. Use the dishwasher dad : )\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-03-26 14:38:23'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "I agree with typerror except I think we're already there almost, I think
    it's importance will come down to things like playing board games vs video games,
    reading a book vs watching a movie.  It'll be one of those interesting facets
    about something that somehow in an elite crowd might make them seem \"more intellectual\"
    but not much else.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, as a child of the computer age, and
    having done school projects on computer from third grade on (hard to do handwriting
    journals on the computer :) ), I find quickly drawing diagrams, taking non-textual
    notes and other sorts of things nearly impossible on the computer, at least not
    at the speed needed to keep up in class or a meeting.  So barring some new fancy
    program, I expect to see handwriting live on as a very very niche use.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2009-03-26 15:31:44'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "The failing in this piece is that rather than suggest the problem is schools
    obsessing over wrote memorization of proscribed forms and ideas, the problem is
    the subject itself, and so the subject should be discontinued. I shouldn\u2019t
    be too surprised, the piece was written by an educator. But is it really that
    hard to look at this situation and see that it\u2019s no more different than creating
    systems where students are not taught to think about history or math but to relentlessly
    drilled to memorize just enough factoids to pass standard tests? "
  created: '2009-03-26 15:44:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I think the author of the article is confusing the nature of the problem
    she and her son are facing, although the first paragraph says it all:\r\n\r\n<em>My
    son, who is in third grade, spends much of his school day struggling to learn
    how to form the letter \u201CG.\u201D Sometimes he writes it backwards. Sometimes
    the tail on his lowercase \u201CT\u201D goes the wrong way. His teachers keep
    telling him he may fail the state assessment standards.</em>\r\n\r\nThe problem
    isn't handwriting, the problem is schools, teachers and things like state assessment
    standards. Most schooling is institutional child abuse, and giving up pens and
    pencils in favour of computers isn't going to change that.\r\n\r\nI'd say that
    making a G backwards and then gradually understanding shape orientation is a pretty
    important developmental step: probably more important as a step than being able
    to write the G correctly. Of course, shape orientation can be learned in other
    ways, but writing letters and numbers is a good way to learn it and comes with
    other benefits: fine motor skills (which you don't get, for example, learning
    shape orientation by flipping and rotating shapes on a computer screen), and of
    course the ability to produce something that someone else can read, even if the
    only thing you have to hand is a stick of graphite. And contra what the author
    writes, there is lots of evidence of the importance of manual interaction in intellectual
    development (and for this reason it is one of the key principles of the Montessori
    method, which strikes me as pretty much the only humane and sane approach to education
    for young children)."
  created: '2009-03-26 16:01:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Right on, John.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nAlmost $5 billion of pens, pencils and markers
    are sold in the US every year.\r\nPresumably these will be written with, although
    pencils are also useful for making seed-holes in soil.\r\nThis blogger's understanding
    of the issue is subjectively skewed, to put it politely.\r\n\r\nSomewhat related,
    shouldn't doctors (who write prescriptions) be required to pass a writing exam
    as part of their qualifications?\r\nHow much more efficient would that make the
    work of pharmacists, and may even save a few lives.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-26 16:20:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Flipped and rotated letters by children are a very NORMAL sign of development
    and get corrected as soon as the particular child develops a bit more. It is NOTHING
    to be concerned about nor dreaded. Government  insistence that standardized testing
    by means of remembering meaningless dribble has done more to dismantle education
    than anything. Government officials are seeking ways to \"PROVE\" that children
    are learning as much as those in other countries and force teachers to waste precious
    time on test preparation rather than on learning important skills. All of these
    tests have done is prove that kids learned more before we started testing!\r\nExercising
    the brain is an important thing to do. One of the important ways to do it is by
    reading and writing. Writing is a developmental process which begins slowly with
    numerous errors which give students something to examine and learn by doing. No
    wonder students today have so little initiative, they have it strangled out of
    them before they are 10 years old!\r\n\r\nIt isn't a matter of if we will later
    in life communicate by our handwriting, it is a case of learning the process of
    having different segments of our brain work together to do many different tasks.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-26 16:42:27'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"The problem isn\u2019t handwriting, the problem is schools, teachers
    and things like state assessment standards.\"</em>\r\n\r\nBut that doesn't rule
    out the question of the respective importance that should be attributed to learning
    handwriting, and other methods of producing letters. I see, and respect, the point
    that learning which way round to draw a \"G\" has beneficial effects besides actually
    learning about lettershapes, but shouldn't education also be about preparing kids
    for the world they live in? Meaning, get them in touch with the tools of the time
    as well.\r\n\r\nFor what it's worth, I learned to write (and read) with my mum's
    typewriter when I was about four. I don't think this harmed my understanding of
    words and communication at all. Quite the opposite, actually. \"Look, Ma, I can
    press these keys here in a different order and it makes a new word!\"\r\n\r\nThat
    said, I'm not sure the idea of trying to immediately and completely abolish handwriting
    is fruitful, or practicable today (though it might be soon). I'm thinking a small
    dose of handwriting will remain in our lives as a tool next to other tools for
    a while; at least as long as we don't have good enough digital tools to enable
    us to note down say a phone number quickly, handwriting will remain useful*. &ndash;
    But definitely, teach kids to type!\r\n\r\n* And maybe voice recognition will/can
    be just that. But accessibility factors in here as well; not everyone will be
    able to afford fancy tools when they could use pen and paper."
  created: '2009-03-26 16:47:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Disclaimer: I have neither read the article nor most\r\nof the comments in
    this thread. Why? Well, time:\r\n\r\nGraham, time is the most valuable thing you
    have - don't waste it learning something you won't need. How much will you need
    handwriting? What will it teach you? Do take one calligraphy class (not the same
    thing as handwriting) if you have some extra time, but take a bag of salt with
    you! Most calligraphy teachers (like most any teacher I guess) engage in self-validation
    to the point of deluding their students concerning the importance of their own
    world.\r\n\r\nAnd finally, some good news:\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/uk_news/education/3103421.stm\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-26 17:11:04'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Well, it's editorial so it's meant to stir the pot. Handwriting is essential,
    of course...it's a foundation skill set for us to learn the alphabet and to read.\r\n\r\nThat
    said, as a parent of young kids, there is some arguments for not depending on
    it so much. Kids are definitely typing much younger than they ever were before.\r\n\r\nOur
    7 year old has atrocious handwriting. Part of that is due to switching schools
    where they were mixing handwriting methods. Part of that is likely genetic. ;0)
    But put him in front of the computer, and he can type just fine. \r\n\r\nSo, I
    agree in that as soon as handwriting becomes the hurdle between the subject matter
    and the student absorbing it, it's time to allow for alternatives. \r\n"
  created: '2009-03-26 18:07:21'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I think handwriting is a very important part of our development as a child
    (or even as adults). I don't think it's a matter of needing it or not. It also
    teaches a young brain abstract thinking, hand-eye co\xF6rdination, etc. I can't
    really explain it very well in English, but I think you get my point.\r\n\r\nI
    can't imagine why someone would <em>not</em> want to learn how to write well.
    Just because the 'need' for it is becoming a less important factor? I think that's
    a pretty weak argument. You also don't 'need' to learn how to play the piano,
    but alot of people do it anyway.\r\n\r\nI can remember I was really proud when
    I learned how to write somwhat readable. My first school used to teach a non-italic
    non-connected type of handwriting, when I switched schools the new school tought
    a connected-italic-like writing method, and I loved it! Now I could write in two
    different ways, how marvelous! This is also what sparked my interest in typography
    and type design."
  created: '2009-03-26 18:30:56'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: 'Writing turns a disparate collection of scribbled and divergent objective-correlatives
    of ideas, or sounds, or syllabic primitives into a script. Hallmarks of a script
    are the optical-grammatical kinship and combinatorial logic of it''s forms, allowing
    word gestalts to form. We learn writing to trick our bodies into understanding
    in the most visceral and enduring of ways the idea that our alphabet is a script. '
  created: '2009-03-26 18:43:05'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "writing by hand is important.\r\n\r\nso is learning how to draw.\r\n\r\nand
    playing a musical instrument.\r\n\r\n_and_ learning to type.\r\n\r\nand do sudoku.\r\n\r\nand
    tie knots.\r\n\r\nand do origami.\r\n\r\nand change your oil.\r\n\r\nphysical
    dexterity leads to mental dexterity.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-26 19:12:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Writing turns a disparate collection of scribbled and divergent objective-\r\n>
    correlatives of ideas, or sounds, or syllabic primitives into a script.\r\n\r\nIn
    headless chicken mode, yes. Ideally, it is <em>thought</em> that does this.\r\nAnd
    this is why Hangul makes Latin look like a village idiot.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-26 19:24:40'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "I think this is a situation where a parent is refusing to admit that their
    child is not perfect. Since the child is clearly perfect, it must be the world
    the child inhabits that is at fault.\r\n\r\nLet your kid fail. They might grow
    a bit, if you let them outside of the cocoon of parenting you are enveloping them
    in."
  created: '2009-03-26 19:35:24'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "I said: \"Writing turns a disparate collection of scribbled and divergent
    objective correlatives of ideas, or sounds, or syllabic primitives into a script.\"
    Hrant replied: \"Ideally, it is thought that does this.\" Hangul is his basis
    for this. \r\n\r\nWhat's distinctive about Hangul is its intelligence as a representational
    system. This includes its basis in articulatory phonetics, and it's transparency
    to syllabic componency. However as a system of marks or strokes, according to
    the wikipedia.org entry on Hangul that I consulted, all Hangul letters follow
    the rules of Chinese calligraphy.\r\n\r\nBy the 1400s, chinese calligraphy had
    long become an optical-grammatically mature and combinatorially powerful script.\r\n\r\nWriting
    is not the headless horseman Hrant wants to pretend it is. The problem with the
    latin script is not it's optical-grammatical structure, nor its combinatory arithmetic.
    It's its wonkiness as a representational system for the articulatorily fluid and
    linguistically polyglot environment it has to serve, extending it far beyond the
    Latin of it's birth.\r\n\r\nLearning writing is an inculcation of the perceptual
    psychophysical grammatology of a script. [edited]\r\n\r\nIn Hangul the isomorphism
    is between the physical gestural logic of the hand in making marks, drawn feom
    an inherited mark-grammer, and the articulatory gestural logic of the mouth in
    making sounds."
  created: '2009-03-26 22:09:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Hangul is his basis for this.\r\n\r\nNo.\r\nMy basis is... thought!\r\n\r\n>
    all Hangul letters follow the rules of Chinese calligraphy.\r\n\r\nActually, it
    is documented that the initial proposal consisted entirely of constructed letterforms,
    which -in part- attempted to visualize the speech organs, with no basis on Chinese
    calligraphy, or any calligraphy. It was to appease his court, which was of course
    infested with status-quo Chinese-language bureaucrats, that the Chinese calligraphy
    angle was spliced in. Without that ruse Koreans would have remained stuck.\r\n\r\nIn
    any case, you shouldn't conveniently forget that Hangul was invented way before
    the digital era! If it were invented today, King Sejong's astuteness would probably
    have incorporated the best of current technology.\r\n\r\n> Writing is not the
    headless horseman Hrant wants to pretend it is.\r\n\r\nWriting is not headless.
    People who cling to it as children are. They are afraid of leaving the house.
    May the gods give them the strength... or at least prevent them from dragging
    the rest of us down with them.\r\n\r\n> Learning writing is an inculcation of
    the inner workings of a script.\r\n\r\nFor almost all scripts that's certainly
    true. But some of us are more interested in improvement, as opposed to simply
    imitating past mistakes.\r\n\r\nThe only real way to figure out how a script <em>needs</em>
    to work is to... think!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-26 22:20:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Headless? A hand is not a head - don't be this:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/handhead_6444.jpg]\r\n\r\nThink
    With Your Brain\u2122\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-26 22:23:17'
- author:
    name: G T
    picture: 128201
  body: "Hrant, are you saying that you believe we should attempt to construct a new
    alphabet (or method of writing) to better articulate the way we think?\r\n\r\nIn
    fact I wonder if written language is capable of properly explaining thought (or
    even spoken language). Would it have to be constructed of forms that could have
    lots of additional marks 'bolted on' in order to express the various associations
    with which we make up any one thought? \r\n\r\nhmmmmmm. Two beers and I'm talking
    this much rubbish. \r\n\r\nGoing back to handwriting, I must say that maybe I
    could type stuff on a computer, but I do enjoy the act of writing; that what I
    learnt as a child has become this mostly unintelligable series of lines with bumps
    in them\u2026"
  created: '2009-03-26 22:25:52'
- author:
    name: G T
    picture: 128201
  body: "<cite>Think With Your Brain\u2122\r\n\r\nI'd say to isolate the brain is
    a mistake. We think with our entire body - it shapes the way we view the world,
    and the way we interact with (attempt to) explain it. "
  created: '2009-03-26 22:30:28'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Actually, it is documented... [Hrant]\r\n\r\nWhere?"
  created: '2009-03-26 23:25:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Graham, I don't think a fresh alphabet with some sort of collection of forms
    that go directly to thought is at all feasible. Above all, I like being practical.
    What remains very practical however is something like Legato, which throws the
    hand overboard (no matter how much the acolytes of GN want to distort it).\r\n\r\n>
    Would it have to be constructed of forms that\r\n> could have lots of additional
    marks \u2019bolted on\u2019\r\n\r\nWell, although that's not what I was thinking,
    I certainly believe that writing systems can be much more complex than the Latin
    script for example, leveraging our reading abilities better. Just like Morse Code
    can work, but it's not at all efficient. Chinese I don't think is too complex,
    and Hangul certainly isn't.\r\n\r\n> I do enjoy the act of writing\r\n\r\nMe too!\r\nI
    like lard too; but I don't pretend it's a cornerstone of society.\r\n\r\n> I\u2019d
    say to isolate the brain is a mistake.\r\n\r\nIn fact it is impossible. But the
    hand does not contain any cognitive powers! One some level conclusions must be
    thought out, using the brain. And it does not make sense to allow the circumstantial
    structure of the hand/arm system (coupled to some arbitrary marking tool no less)
    to dictate what makes sense in terms of the functionality of reading. Unless one
    invokes some mystical synergy between all the parts of the body...\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    I've said all this a million times before. But some people just don't want to
    let go - it would be no fun for them to let go, and they want to have fun. Ergo,
    it is not possible to administer psychotherapy via ASCII...\r\n\r\nPeter, I forget.
    But it's out there, and not buried very deep. The thing is, why get hung up on
    a historical instance? Just because some guy did something one way or another
    means very little - it should not become an excuse to avoid the guidance of logic
    and reason.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-27 00:01:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Graham, something else that's possible is to purge the Latin alphabet (or
    really any writing system) of anachronistic flaws (for example the modularity
    of b/d/p/q*), while keeping it firmly decipherable to existing readers - in effect
    gently reforming the structures \"under the radar\" of the reader. One might be
    tempted to think that people are free to do this at the typeface design level
    (which is better than nothing - certainly much better than regurgitating the \"hand\"
    mantras), but what I'm talking about entails a move into a more formal realm,
    arising from a concerted analysis and its application (my old Alphabet Reform
    shtick).\r\n\r\n* Those who uphold chirography while striking down grid-based
    \"constructed\" design conveniently ignore that the hand imposes a grid of its
    own - just not a Cartesian one! Not that grid-based constructed design has much
    merit mind you.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-27 00:13:07'
- author:
    name: peter_bain
  body: "I wouldn't want to live in a world where music is only made by digital means
    (having been listening to lots of electronica recently). Thus, handwriting has
    much to commend it, and support from educators who link fine motor skills and
    cognitive development.\r\n\r\nDesigners and typographers who disdain handwriting
    on either aesthetic or technological grounds are welcome to their opinion."
  created: '2009-03-27 01:20:19'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "\"something else that\u2019s possible is to purge the Latin alphabet (or
    really any writing system) of anachronistic flaws (for example the modularity
    of b/d/p/q*), while keeping it firmly decipherable to existing readers - in effect
    gently reforming the structures \u201Cunder the radar\u201D of the reader. \"\r\n\r\nHow
    would you do this Hrant?\r\n\r\nGenuinely interested\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-03-27 01:41:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Actually I didn't mean to over-emphasize digital creation. Letterforms that
    are made by arranging pebbles on a beach for example can be superior to handwriting
    in certain ways. The point isn't to find some ideal method, but to see the flaws
    in every method, and not fetishize any of them. Especially useful is seeing the
    flaws in a method that oppressively crushes out everything else.\r\n\r\nDeveloping
    fine motors skills can be done without creating and fostering misleading illusions
    of functionality; teaching kids to make letters by expanding skeletons without
    immediately warning them that when it comes to reading skeletons are irrelevant
    is a disservice to society. And cognitive development need not be impeded by cozy
    anachronisms - there are many ways to get kids (and adults) to think without perpetuating
    lies.\r\n\r\nBTW, I don't disdain handwriting. I just think it's headed the way
    of cuneiform writing. One thing I do disdain however is ideological lassitude.\r\n\r\n>
    How would you do this Hrant?\r\n\r\nYou might want to get a copy of \"Graphic
    Design & Reading\" (G Swanson, ed.) where my \"Improving the Tool\" essay can
    be found. The essay was also published (in English and Spanish) in an issue of
    tipoGrafica.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-27 01:46:07'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Is it online Hrant?\r\n\r\nEnglish or Spanish is fine.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-03-27 01:52:07'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Hrant, if you were to strike out all your belittling insinuations and derogatory
    hyperbole there would be little left of your critique. Is the ball in my court
    to produce the falsifying evidence you can't or won't supply?\r\n\r\nThe consequent
    of my claims above is not that type design imitate writing. Hrant knows that's
    not what I think. Hrant knows that I'm an advocate of systematic and well-motivated
    norm-violation when it comes to contrast-styling in type design. I'm also open
    to role-architectural exploration or reconfiguration in letter-form construction
    to enhance divergence [edited] or when the mapping problems of the current system
    become too complex. Hrant and I might have different ideas of where the tipping
    point might lie. Maybe eventually Hangul will fill the breech after the decline
    of the west has continued apace. Until then, I don't really see much prospect
    for a wholesale retranscription from within.\r\n\r\nThe consequent of my claim
    above is that there are strong personal developmental and cultural historical
    reasons to continue / reinvigorate writing.\r\n\r\nI challenge Hrant to show that
    my analysis of Legato fails to illuminate what is happening in form-analytical
    terms in Legato. My analysis can be found in illustrated form in the thread: What's
    so unique about Legato."
  created: '2009-03-27 01:55:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'An interesting question here is whether learning to form letters proficiently
    by hand is a helpful step to word recognition and reading. I don''t know the literature
    on this, but I''m supposing it exists. '
  created: '2009-03-27 02:14:13'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: "If you live in a society that communicates with visual symbols, you need
    to learn how to make those symbols. Without electricity.\r\nBut if you expect
    people to pay you good money for work you call graphic design or typography, you
    need to learn more than that. You need to learn to feel the shapes of letters
    the way a pianist feels the keys, the way a pitcher feels the ball. You don't
    learn that by looking at letters, you learn it by drawing letters.\r\n<em>physical
    dexterity leads to mental dexterity.</em>"
  created: '2009-03-27 02:32:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> ... there would be little left of your critique.\r\n\r\nYou're right.\r\nI've
    done all I can in the past*, and I dislike repetition - I value the new; I do
    not celebrate the past, I build a better future (well, I try). My main motivation
    these days is to make sure people, especially newbies, know there are people who
    think that at least some of the arguments you (plural) make are hogwash. Planting
    this doubt is not useless - it makes people think, instead of blindly following.\r\n\r\n*
    Although Typophile's search is largely useless, Google does a fine job - just
    append \"hhp\" on an appropriate set of terms.\r\n\r\n> Is the ball in my court\r\n\r\nI'm
    not playing a game; you're not my adversary.\r\n\r\n> I don\u2019t really see
    much prospect for a\r\n> wholesale retranscription from within.\r\n\r\nI'm not
    sure what you mean by \"retranscription\". But I certainly see an opportunity
    to ween people off chirography. At least people who have the luxury to be undecided;
    too many people are too old (ideologically). And you see an opportunity for what,
    reviving handwriting? Nauseating. Hey, why not revive cuneiform while you're at
    it?! And what would you like to see revived in the field of music, banging clubs
    on skulls? That must make such a uniquely <em>human</em> sound...\r\n\r\n> I challenge
    Hrant to show that my analysis of Legato fails to\r\n> illuminate what is happening
    in form-analytical terms in Legato.\r\n\r\nNo, it's OK... I haven't read much
    of that other thread, and anyway it doesn't even matter what Legato does - it's
    just an instance. What matters is the concept of what we should be doing.\r\n\r\nI
    just want people to know that resistance -passionate, furious resistance- exists;
    that there are people who can see that the emperor has become senile, and think
    it's important to point that out.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-27 03:33:46'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"But I certainly see an opportunity to ween people off chirography. At least
    people who have the luxury to be undecided; too many people are too old (ideologically).\"
    [Hrant]\r\n\r\nLet me repeat: \"The consequent of my claims above is not that
    type design imitate writing.\"\r\n\r\nYou try to ban using the pen as a reference
    axis in handling or gauging type from type talk. Any time you see a reference
    to handwriting you smell a senile chirographic rat. I try to say the rat's not
    in my equation. \r\n\r\nI only think, in the context of this thread, abandoning
    handwriting writing is cultural suicide. Type-cultural suicide as well.\r\n\r\nI
    try to make people think as well.\r\n\r\nMy concept of what we should be doing
    in type design is that, at least in the text-type domain, we should be exploring
    feature manipulation / norm-violations that promote or enhance rapid automatic
    visual wordform resolution in reading."
  created: '2009-03-27 12:17:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The consequent of my claims above is\r\n> not that type design imitate
    writing.\r\n\r\nWe use \"imitate\" differently.\r\n\r\n> I try to say the rat\u2019s
    not in my equation.\r\n\r\nBut its pelt keeps you warm.\r\n\r\n> abandoning handwriting
    writing is cultural suicide.\r\n\r\nA convenient alarmism. It <em>will</em> happen,
    but not\r\nso abruptly. However, its wholesale abandonment\r\nis indeed overdue
    in the field of text face design.\r\n\r\nCulture changes. Diseased bits hopefully
    fall off.\r\n\r\n> we should be exploring ...\r\n\r\nAs long as we make sure not
    to leave the Old Continent eh?\r\nCoast-hugging is dead; we need our astrolabe.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-27 14:19:19'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "When children are young (like my niece) its not a matter of forcing the alfabet
    into them. They WANT to learn, they imitate letters even if they don't know their
    meaning yet. The get it wrong the first time, but quickly learn to get better.
    And the speed at which they learn and absorb things is amazing! So not learning
    handwriting to me is definately wrong! It's they drilling and the testing that's
    the problem, not the handwriting. Each kid has it's own pace to learn things,
    and are better in some things or  worse in others. This should be taken into account
    when teaching them. They aren't harddrives, for chrissakes! \r\n\r\nI cannot prove
    anything but I think it is essential to learn proper handwriting, because it trains
    the brain in a unique way (just like drawing does in it's own way). It's not just
    a matter of being able to decipher glyphs on a screen. Typing is also different
    than writing, not better or worse but different. I have nothing against teaching
    kids with modern tools, but this doesn't disqualify old methods. It's not a case
    of either/or but of and/and.\r\n\r\ncheerio Queneau"
  created: '2009-03-27 16:03:17'
- author:
    name: nancy sharon collins
    picture: 111855
  body: "hi guys,\r\n\r\nthis has gotten way to contentious for me but i can't help
    myself.\r\n\r\ndoes anyone know where and what the research is on the relationship
    between drawing, brain function and development?  i know it exists but i don't
    know where.  i don't think its in gardner's work but if someone could direct me
    it would be appreciated.\r\n\r\nan abstract expressionist painter friend and i
    often discuss the relationship between gestural drawing and thinking.  he draws
    and paints and i write cursive with pencils and pens.  i do this in addition to
    spending too much time key stroking and pushing pixels around on the computer.\r\n\r\ni
    flunked spelling in elementary school and my handwriting was illegible until it
    became my choice to write longhand.  until recently i hated both of these disciplines
    because i sucked at performing them, but mastering them expands my capabilities,
    stretches my brain and makes my communication skills more complex, useful and
    dynamic.\r\n\r\ni know from personal experience that the product of my writing
    is different when i am on the computer and when i write a letter by hand.  its
    this gestural thing and also that, although marks made directly on paper are not
    immutable, correcting, changing or altering them takes a lot more effort than
    in the computer.  so, i think, the brain performs a different kind of editing
    in each mode.  and both have practical applications in an increasingly digital
    age."
  created: '2009-03-27 16:10:51'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "Oh... And what if you've only learned typing and the power fails, the computer
    crashed, the battery is dead etc. Technology is good, but it also has its limitations
    and dangers. One being a strong dependency on electricity, which is fine when
    it works, but what if it doesn't. And are kids supposed to always carry around
    microcomputers/keyboards to memorize stuff or write things down... I dunno...
    It's fine when it's one of the options available, but if it's the only one, it
    could get scary: The dyke breaks, everythings flooded, the powers out and you
    laptop is full of water, you sit there with a piece of cardboard and a pen, but
    you just don't know how to form the letters HELP without a proper QWERTY keyboard
    and a flatscreen.... :-O\r\n\r\nSorry to spoil the fun with my anti-technological
    ramblings... It's just on my mind that's all...\r\n\r\ncheerio Queneau"
  created: '2009-03-27 16:16:44'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"the product of my writing is different when i am on the computer and
    when i write a letter by hand.\"</em>\r\nSure, tools influence thinking. I think
    it's important to see that influence is there, and to fight it back, if necessary/wanted.\r\nWe're
    in the middle of a paradigm/generation shift IMHO. Getting back to type design
    (or design in general), I personally find it much easier to produce good design,
    smooth curves &c. on screen than with a pen on paper. On the other hand, many
    of my colleagues still believe there is some sort of brain&mdash;hand expressway.
    Both views coexist &ndash; the medial landscape *is* shifting. \r\nI wonder how
    long a majority will cling to the \"old\" ways.\r\n\r\n<em>\"and both have practical
    applications in an increasingly digital age.\"</em>\r\nAre you sure there's more
    practicality in this statement than nostalgia?"
  created: '2009-03-27 16:29:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> They WANT to learn\r\n\r\nYes, but it's our responsibility to teach them
    the best things.\r\nTheir time and attention -like everybody else's- is limited.\r\n\r\nNancy,
    drawing is awesome! But when it comes to \"visible language\" we give it way too
    much importance - for some people it becomes a pseudo-religion. It's comical to
    picture the not-too-distance past -and the not-too-distant future- where people
    did -and will do- just fine without authoring visible language by hand. In the
    future they will look back at us and laugh, just like we now laugh at pre-decimal
    counting systems, or pushing sticks into mud to remember stuff.\r\n\r\n> And what
    if you\u2019ve only learned typing and the power fails\r\n\r\nAnd what if the
    pencil breaks? I can't tell you how many times I've convinced my son to get a
    head start on his homework during the drive home only for him to discover that
    he has nothing to write with. And speaking of cars, what if you live in LA and
    your car stops working? Knowing to walk doesn't really help much. But frankly
    that line of reasoning goes nowhere.\r\n\r\n> I personally find it much easier
    to produce good design,\r\n> smooth curves &c. on screen than with a pen on paper.\r\n\r\nAnd
    it's very telling that at the highest levels (Matthew Carter, Evert Bloemsma and
    others) type designers design directly onscreen. Simply because, through forward
    thinking and practice, they have overcome any prejudice towards the hand.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-27 16:36:51'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nina: <em>Getting back to type design (or design in general), I personally
    find it much easier to produce good design, smooth curves &c. on screen than with
    a pen on paper.</em>\r\n\r\nAs do I, and I doubt if I am alone in practising type
    design as a compensation for bad handwriting. :)\r\n\r\nAs I explained to Hermann
    Zapf when showing him some of the diacritic letters I had made for the initial
    Apple version of Palatino (before Hermann and Akira decided the redraw the entire
    typeface from scratch), I know what the shapes should look like, but can't make
    them by hand with a pen in the way that he can.\r\n\r\nBut what is the skill that
    I am actually using when I'm designing type directly on the computer? I don't
    think it is a skill at moving my fingers on a trackball or cursor keys to edit
    bezier curves, although there is some basic manual competence involved. The skill
    is in looking and in understanding what I see. There is a difference of kind between
    the skill involved in making shapes on a computer and making shapes by hand, which
    has to do with the directness of the relationship between hand, tool and shape.
    What this means in terms of working with a pen or working with a computer is not
    that there is a switch between parallel but different skills -- since in the area
    of design the core skill, of seeing and understanding, remains the same regardless
    of the tool --, but whether a separate set of skills -- manual, fine motor skills,
    controlling a mark-making tool in direct contact with a medium -- is employed
    or bypassed. Or, in the case of education, whether these skills are developed
    at all."
  created: '2009-03-27 18:32:31'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: Deleted, I don't want to continue in this vein.
  created: '2009-03-27 19:15:05'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"I know what the shapes should look like, but can\u2019t make them by
    hand with a pen in the way that he can.\"</em>\r\nJohn, do I hear you. It's reassuring
    to hear you say that!\r\nFWIW, when I started out designing my font, I spent about
    two months awkwardly sketching stuff on tracing paper that never looked right;
    my design process, the search for the shapes I wanted only took off once I put
    those sketches aside and moved to FontLab. \r\nSo I'm always bewildered when people
    seem to think that analogue drawing skills are some sort of <em>sine qua non</em>
    for design in general. Especially nowadays.\r\n\r\n<em>\"The skill is in looking
    and in understanding what I see.\"</em>\r\nThat's a very good point. Of course
    b\xE9ziers are a tool to be learned and understood too, but one that definitely
    favors brainpower over physical dexterity. I hear too many from the \"hand-drawing
    fraction\" say stuff like \"only the hand can produce smooth curves\". Well mine
    can't.\r\n\r\nWhich reminds me: \"physical dexterity leads to mental dexterity\",
    as has been stated in this thread, seems\u2026 well, let's say oversimplified
    at the very least, if not somewhat beside the point in the digital age. If I was
    thinking the way I can draw, I'd have an IQ of about 50.\r\n\r\n<em>\"What this
    means [is] whether a separate set of skills \u2014 manual, fine motor skills,
    controlling a mark-making tool in direct contact with a medium \u2014 is employed
    or bypassed. Or, in the case of education, whether these skills are developed
    at all.\"</em>\r\nSo do you think they should be [to the degree that they currently
    are]?"
  created: '2009-03-27 19:16:35'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "Obviously, some people have constant access to technology and power. They
    obviously have unlimited resources (ie. money) to replace both technology and
    power. They obviously haven't been without power for weeks at a time due to circumstances
    beyond their control. Every person in their world has a computer, printer and
    high speed internet access. Writing, therefore, is an archaic method of communication.
    Let's just not teach kids to write. All they need is keyboarding, right? \r\n\r\nReality
    sucks and one should always be prepared to walk in case things break down. Otherwise,
    you are just a boat anchor to those who can.\r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n\r\n[[http://www.thefontry.com|<em>...from
    the Fontry </em>]]"
  created: '2009-03-27 19:25:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "James, FWIW, I grew up in the Lebanese civil war - my Commodore 64 was without
    power for weeks at a time. And one reason I like type design is exactly because
    it doesn't require tons of heavy technology.\r\n\r\n> Let\u2019s just not teach
    kids to write. \r\n\r\nNo just yet, but soon.\r\nJust like we don't teach little
    girls to sew anymore.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-27 19:35:07'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "good luck with that...\r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n\r\n[[http://www.thefontry.com|<em>...from
    the Fontry </em>]]"
  created: '2009-03-27 19:57:39'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "altaira said:\r\n>   \u201Cphysical dexterity leads to mental dexterity\u201D,
    \r\n>   as has been stated in this thread, seems\u2026 well, \r\n>   let\u2019s
    say oversimplified at the very least, if not \r\n>   somewhat beside the point
    in the digital age. \r\n>   If I was thinking the way I can draw, \r\n>   I\u2019d
    have an IQ of about 50.\r\n\r\nnobody said physical dexterity was the _sole_ route\r\nto
    mental dexterity.\r\n\r\nand your i.q. -- to the extent there is such a thing
    --\r\nis probably set by now.\r\n\r\nbut had you been _taught_ to draw as a youngster,\r\nit
    might have raised your i.q. above what it is now.\r\n\r\none of the main sections
    in the i.q. test is one that\r\nassesses ability to manipulate spatial dimensions...\r\n(it's
    the one that shows drawings of pieces of paper\r\nin various shapes, with fold-lines
    at certain places.)\r\n\r\nthat's why i suggested that things like origami and\r\nknot-tying
    -- and even sudoku -- could be helpful...\r\n\r\nit's also the case that _any_
    form of _mastery_ can\r\nhelp produce a positive mental state that can lead to\r\nincreased
    intellectual activity.  i was reminded of this\r\nrecently when reading a post
    by dave winer on his blog:\r\n>   http://www.scripting.com/stories/2009/03/25/iGetIdeasWhenISki.html\r\n\r\ndave
    gets ideas when he goes skiing...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\np.s.  along a similar
    line, some common problems\r\nin the learning of handwriting -- e.g., flipping
    letters,\r\neither horizontally or vertically -- are also associated\r\nwith dyslexia
    and autism.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-29 23:48:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nina, my take on child development is that children should be allowed to
    play, and most of the skills they need in this world will be developed as a result
    of play: the way you played with your mother's typewriter when you were four.
    I do think thank tactile, manual play is of primary importance, especially for
    very young children: direct engagement with objects, manipulating them, making
    them interact, etc. Manipulating things via indirect controls, such as using a
    computer, is of secondary importance and something that, developmentally, follows
    from the first and can't be a substitute for it.\r\n\r\nI don't think there is
    any point in schooling children in e.g. Spencerian penmanship -- especially not
    if the tool you give them to do it with is a ballpoint pen! --, but I do think
    it is important for children to develop the fine motor skills that will enable
    them to learn that form of writing, or any other form that appeals to them, when
    they want to do so. I think there are a lot of people in the world who would love
    to make calligraphy, or even simply produce everyday handwriting that gives them
    pleasure, but who lack fundamental motor skills and this lack will make it very,
    very difficult for them to obtain even competence let along excellence."
  created: '2009-03-30 04:07:02'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: John, very well put.
  created: '2009-03-30 17:29:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Window of opportunity:\r\nIs writing one of those skills, like speaking a
    foreign language, which, if one doesn't learn it when young, is much harder to
    acquire when older, to the extent that one never fully masters it?\r\n\r\nBTW:\r\n\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/uk_news/education/3103421.stm\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-30 17:48:07'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "This may be a bit off topic... It is rare lately that I write any thing with
    a pen or pencil. Even mundane notes, recipes, grocery lists are typed, so that
    I can save them in my computer without wasting paper. Sometimes, I need hard copy,
    such as the grocery list, so I might take the information with me. The side effect
    is that most of what I write is typeset. The zeitgeist of the near future may
    make paper even less necessary. I do not yet have a way to easily transfer text
    to my telephone, although many people do. \r\n\r\nIt seems that a child today
    will transition to this medium much faster than I did; probably in elementary
    school. \r\n\r\n<cite>Manipulating things via indirect controls, such as using
    a computer, is of secondary importance and something that, developmentally, follows
    from the first and can\u2019t be a substitute for it.</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm not sure
    that dragging a stick across a page is that fundamentally different than pressing
    a button which causes the line to appear. Have we tried simply teaching a child
    without handwriting? Would it be a disaster?"
  created: '2009-03-30 18:09:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It depends on the child. We cannot assume that there is only one way to reach
    every child's best means of interaction.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-30 18:20:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It may be a good idea to acquire pen/pencil technique at an early age, as
    precursor to a career where a stylus and tablet are used--and there are many of
    these.\r\n\r\nI wonder what percentage of graphic artists use a stylus rather
    than a mouse, thumbs or trackpad? I do.\r\nA lot in the gaming and film industries.\r\n\r\nWacom:
    2 million devices in use.\r\n\r\nThey teach music and sport at school, though
    very few become professionals in those fields.\r\n\r\nSpeaking of thumbs, if you
    want to argue reductive functionalism, why bother teaching the full keyboard?"
  created: '2009-03-30 18:30:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Much better than teaching children to make suboptimal letters with some arbitrary
    tool (and using only one hand) would be to make them draw shapes in sand with
    their fingers, sculpt clay, etc. I can even imagine teaching pre-keyboarding skills
    to very young kids - things involving pushing your fingers in various ways into
    \"memory foam\", etc.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-30 19:24:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>... using only one hand ...</em>\r\n\r\nFrank Stokes (19th century writing
    guru) wrote with both hands simultaneously, to maximize speed."
  created: '2009-03-30 21:21:38'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Comedian Demetri Martin practices that too, and reports that it [[http://www.believermag.com/issues/200602/?read=interview_martin|"is
    really hard. But it uses your mind in this weird way"]].
  created: '2009-03-30 21:46:14'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "There's an old movie, Wonderman, in which [[http://www.imdb.com/media/rm1474534656/tt0038260|Danny
    Kaye is a character so brilliant that he writes two different essays at the same
    time, one with his right and one with his left hand.]]\r\n\r\nI'm sure Hrant does
    that all the time, only with two keyboards, so as to be not sullied with chirography
    :) "
  created: '2009-03-30 22:08:42'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "[John] <em>\"direct engagement with objects, manipulating them, making them
    interact, etc.\"</em>\r\n[Hrant] <em>\"make them draw shapes in sand with their
    fingers\u2026\"</em>\r\n\r\nThis is reminding me of a school in Germany I read
    about where they go on field trips with the kids, and let them discover all sorts
    of materials to make letters out of. Like they'd find pebbles and arrange them
    to spell PEBBLES. Or over lunch, arrange the tomatoes so they say, whatever, FOOD.
    Plus the writing-in-sand-with-your-fingers-thing, etc. The kids apparently love
    it, and come out a lot more enthusiastic about the general concept of\u2026 letters."
  created: '2009-03-30 22:14:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Carl: <em>I\u2019m not sure that dragging a stick across a page is that fundamentally
    different than pressing a button which causes the line to appear.</em>\r\n\r\nIf
    the only thing you care about is the resulting line in the given medium, then
    you might indeed wonder what is the difference. But it is the same difference
    that pertains between making love and looking at pornography on the Internet.
    If ejaculation is the only \u2018result\u2019 you are considering, then perhaps
    there is indeed no fundamental difference, but most people understand that there
    is in fact a considerable difference and more to one than to the other."
  created: '2009-03-30 22:55:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>...make them draw shapes in sand with their fingers, sculpt clay,
    etc.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm not in favour of \u2018making\u2019 children -- or adults,
    or dogs, or any other intelligent and social creature -- do anything, which is
    why I suggested at the beginning of this discussion that the problem was not handwriting
    but schooling. Drilling eight year-old children in the use of computer keyboards
    and subjecting them to tests of typing proficiency to meet state assessment standards
    isn't going to solve the problem, even if many children find using the computer
    keyboard easier than writing, i.e. less challenging. It won't make the children
    any happier to be told that their typing is bad rather than that their handwriting
    is bad.\r\n\r\nAbsolutely take children to the beach, give them clay to play with,
    sit beside them making lettershapes and see if they are curious about what you
    are doing. But first let them discover things about sand and clay, and then let
    them explore their curiosity about the media and their own ideas about what to
    do with it. They will naturally become curious about what you are doing, but only
    after they have satisfied their curiosity about their own minds' promptings. Some
    children will very quickly gravitate to what the adult is doing; others will spend
    a long time playing with their own ideas first."
  created: '2009-03-30 23:06:55'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Just when you thought things couldn't get any more confusing:\r\n\r\n[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dysgraphia|Dysgraphia]]"
  created: '2009-03-31 00:44:55'
- author:
    name: Nachos
    picture: 116245
  body: In my schooling there was a great deal less time spent on specifically handwriting
    than there was spent on sports. I grew up playing sports and spent countless hours
    practicing and playing games. My profession, however, is graphic design and not
    athletics. Why, if "time is the most valuable thing you have" did I spend so much
    time playing sports, or biology for that matter?
  created: '2009-03-31 01:24:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Because nobody can predict anybody's future. Nonetheless we do need to teach*
    things that we think will be useful (as opposed to blindly pass along what we
    learned ourselves).\r\n\r\n* And for better or worse John this does\r\ninvolve
    \"making\" children do things.\r\n\r\n> let them explore their curiosity about
    the media\r\n\r\nAnd it is exactly this wonderful freedom that will lead to the
    relegation of handwriting to history.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-31 01:59:43'
- author:
    name: Graham McArthur
    picture: 109915
  body: Interesting thread. One of the better ones in recent months.
  created: '2009-03-31 02:22:31'
- author:
    name: moare
    picture: 117067
  body: For sure is necesary and totaly logical teach handwriting. Even our times
    appers not necesary write with hands is part of human basic comunication. What
    is for sure not all kids have same skills, the problem is not handwriting is the
    persons who teach that not use their brains to direct children to their correct
    habilities. Work with children to spend time in what really do best and get better
    in things what really needs get it. It's not abour typewriter machine or handwriting
    discussion is about education and vision.
  created: '2009-03-31 02:30:00'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "I agree that teaching handwriting (as in, the art of \"make your letters
    look pretty\") is stupid, letters just need to be legible, which is the curse
    of being a member of a society - others have to be able to understand your output.
    \ But getting rid of teaching to write by hand period could end up being counterproductive
    in the maths and sciences.\r\n\r\nCan you really imagine doing math equations
    typing out each new line?  While I can write papers much more fluidly on a computer,to
    work an equations or figure things out I just can't do it at a reasonable speed
    without pen and paper.\r\n\r\nAlso, dezcom, flipped letters are certainly normal,
    but normal in first grade.  By third grade, it's a sign of some other problem
    (dyslexia or others).\r\n\r\nNachos: I only remember having had handwriting when
    I first learned to write, and when I learnt cursive.  Other than that, we practiced
    through the normal English classes.  Re sports, trust me, you do use elements
    of sport in your real life, just maybe not the physical aspect of it.  I don't
    agree with how PE is implemented in the system at the moment but it serves a worthwhile
    purpose.\r\n\r\nJohn: in my experience as a teacher, I've found that children
    whose parents expose them to the most ideas at home are the ones that most benefit
    from schooling.  Why?  Probably simply because the parents are there imposing
    the value of exploration and learning.  Few, if any, of my student's parents can
    read or speak English, but those that are involved in their kids lives (much like
    your description in the last paragraph) are those whose kids have the most advanced
    English because they see class as an exploration.  But those whose parents aren't
    in the picture see English as a chore like taking out the garbage.  Know that
    I do agree with you, above all re achievement tests, but children do need to have
    certain minimum levels (this doesn't require standardized tests of course).  I
    can let them count rocks for days on end but at some point they do need to learn
    multiplication.  And if they can't learn it, they need to brought back up to pace
    either via summer school, Saturday school, or being held back.\r\n\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2009-03-31 02:34:14'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "This [[http://www.amazon.co.uk/Spelling-Handwriting-Dyslexia-Diane-Montgomery/dp/041540925X|book,
    on Spelling Handwriting and Dyslexia]], so far as I can tell from the blurbs and
    stuff on line, argues for a role for hand writing of letters in reading. I don't
    have the book, but it seems to argue that training in handwriting can help dyslexics.
    \ \r\n\r\nIf this is indeed the case, it would argue that a foundation of physically
    drawing letters helps later recognition. Her case seems to relate mainly to spelling,
    though--which is, of course, a particular problem in English. "
  created: '2009-03-31 03:37:35'
- author:
    name: aharl
    picture: 113165
  body: "<cite> its wholesale abandonment is indeed overdue in the field of text face
    design.</cite>\r\n\r\nhrant, Having stopped reading comments a while back I may
    be off topic to what is currently being discussed. I understand your argument
    for reason and practicality yet people are not all so shrewd. You say if I am
    not mistaken that handwriting is obsolete and dated. I think you are overlooking
    that as much as it (handwriting) is a tool to make marks it has also come to carry
    meaning in itself. That being the case I don't think it ever will, nor should
    be abandoned. Legibility is not the end all in terms of communication, even in
    the world of typography. Characters can, especially in display, become more than
    just symbolic representations of letters in an alphabet. The forms can become
    a part of a gestalt that communicates beyond language. <a href=\"http://www.scriptsf.com/original/index.php\">http://www.scriptsf.com/original/index.php</a>"
  created: '2009-03-31 03:45:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> a foundation of physically drawing letters helps later recognition.\r\n\r\nCertainly.
    But <em>immersive reading</em> isn't really\r\nabout slow, deliberate letterwise
    recognition.\r\n\r\n> The forms can become a part of a gestalt\r\n> that communicates
    beyond language.\r\n\r\nAgreed. But basing this on the right hand holding a specific
    type\r\nof marking tool is very near-sighted, especially when it comes to\r\nthe
    <em>purpose</em> of rendering visible language: reading it!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-31 05:41:42'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>And for better or worse John this does involve \u201Cmaking\u201D
    children do things.</em>\r\n\r\nI understand \u2018making\u2019 someone do something
    to involve either forcing them against their will or hijacking their will, neither
    of which is good for that person and, crucially, <em>neither of which is an efficient
    way of getting a social creature to do anything</em>.\r\n\r\nOver the past two
    and a half years I've learned a lot of important things about social creatures
    and how they are best motivated to do things. Most of this I learned from my dog,
    who is a more consistent teacher than any I had in school.\r\n\r\nOne of the things
    I've learned is that if a more intelligent species can't motivate, in a positive
    way, a less intelligent species to do something, the problem is with the more
    intelligent species not the less intelligent one. The same holds true for more
    mature and presumably intelligent adults vis \xE0 vis children: if an adult has
    to force a child to do something against his or her will, there's a problem with
    the adult not with the child."
  created: '2009-03-31 06:50:53'
- author:
    name: aharl
    picture: 113165
  body: "<cite>Agreed. But basing this on the right hand holding a specific type\r\nof
    marking tool is very near-sighted, especially when it comes to\r\nthe purpose
    of rendering visible language: reading it!</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm sorry if I was unclear.
    I was using the example of a gestalt generally. I think that the tool you use,
    should be selected based on the product that you desire. When you want the hand
    to be present in a letterform I see no need to try to mimic that in any other
    \ way than to begin drawing the forms on paper with your chosen tool whether it
    be pen, pencil, brush or whatever. Historically the abandonment of a tool has
    shown a degradation in the particular forms that it produces. It was only with
    much effort and research that <a href=\"http://www.ejf.org.uk/\">Edward Johnson</a>
    was able to revive the broad edged pen as a tool for writing. Sometimes the best
    tool and method is the one that has been around the longest."
  created: '2009-03-31 14:52:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Those who haven't yet raised children in my observation are a hundred more
    times sure of themselves about good parenting practices :) \r\n\r\nJohn, the higher
    cognitive ability and moral understanding of children, beyond very early stages,
    makes parenting have many different challenges from raising a dog. \r\n\r\nYoung
    children tend to follow what parents want. However, they also have their likes
    and dislikes and want to test limits, so it is complicated, and that makes parenting
    challenging. \r\n\r\nThere are also times when you should coerce a child. When
    they are about to walk into danger, you pick them up, and carry them away, maybe
    with them screaming and kicking. Same with buying still more candy.\r\n\r\nAlso
    with your own goals as a parent, there are conflicts. You want the child to develop
    his or her individuality, but not to the extent of growing up to be a nasty, selfish
    person. Children, as with all humanity, have good and bad tendencies, and parents
    ideally construct in their home a world in which good habits and attitudes will
    flourish and the bad be curbed."
  created: '2009-03-31 14:59:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hrant, the issue of reading slowly or quickly I think is a red herring, as
    dyslexics never get to the fast reading stage. The question is whether having
    a layer of muscular memory of shaping letters facilitates more sure and quick
    recognition.\r\n\r\nAlso this may be something that only applies to those with
    dyslexia, but it may also be helpful as a learning stage for all children. And
    if hand movement remains as a basic layer in our brains, it would argue that the
    'moving front' of a stroke in a letter is a basic feature that we shouldn't ignore
    in letter design as well. "
  created: '2009-03-31 15:13:19'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\u201CThe forms can become a part of a gestalt that communicates beyond language.\u201D
    [Andrew]\r\n\r\n\u201CAgreed. But basing this on the right hand holding a specific
    type\r\nof marking tool is very near-sighted, especially when it comes to\r\nthe
    <em>purpose</em> of rendering visible language: reading it!\u201D [Hrant]\r\n\r\nIn
    my opinion the larger purpose of rendering language visible is to increase the
    legibility of the world (Abraham Moles). We do this by reading the texts of others
    and writing or transcribing texts ourselves. Reading is not <em>the purpose</em>
    but an affordance of rendering language visible. Our latin script, especially
    in its lower case <em>is</em> based on the right hand holding a specific marking
    tool. This has nothing to do with being nearsighted. It is in fact derivative,
    circumstantial and fortuitous. It facilitated the evolution of a comfortably writable
    and broadly readable script.\r\n\r\nThe domain of type design is feature manipulation,
    and evolution proceeds through norm-violation (read chapter 10 of Douglas Hofstadter's
    <em>Fluid Concepts and Creative Analogies</em>: \u201CEsthetic Perception and
    Creative Play in the Rich Microcosm of the Alphabet.\u201D). In this domain, what
    the reading body needs exerts a countervailing pressure to what the writing or
    sculpting or pixel and bezier-manipulating or keyboard mapping body wants. \r\n\r\nThe
    reading system resolves or decomposes marks on paper or images on screen into
    role-units, and fully or partially enclosed counters into evoked forms. The pattern
    (location and perceptual identity) of these is what is read. Writing inscribes
    this decomposition into the visual cortex. \r\n\r\nIf the marks don't have a distinctive
    and independent cue value in their context, or the evoked forms aren't salient
    enough in the context of the whole, the rapid automatic visual word-from resolution
    grounding sense-following in reading suffers. This means three things are important
    for reading. Gestalt integrity, or notan; well-formedness and narrow phase alignment
    when it comes to the marks; and well-formedness and synchronization when it comes
    to the evoked forms. Writing teaches well-formedness, phase alignment and synchronization.
    Notan, proper salience and independent cue value impel us to press beyond."
  created: '2009-03-31 16:07:30'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: 'In my second to last sentence above I could or should have written: "Writing
    for reading teaches..."'
  created: '2009-03-31 16:29:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Those who haven\u2019t yet raised children in my observation are a hundred\r\n>
    more times sure of themselves about good parenting practices :)\r\n\r\nJohn, I
    wasn't saying anything, but William is dead on!  :-)\r\n\r\n> dyslexics never
    get to the fast reading stage.\r\n\r\n1) I didn't know you were focusing on dyslexics.
    Why?\r\n2) How do you know this?\r\n3) Maybe it's because our fonts suck?\r\n\r\n>
    Our latin script, especially in its lower case is based\r\n> on the right hand
    holding a specific marking tool.\r\n\r\nNot for the reader.\r\nIn fact not for
    most writers either!\r\n\r\nOne must remember that the broad nib's pen was broad
    simply because the technology for making clean and permanent monoline marks wasn't
    available for a very long time*. But that hasn't been true since before any of
    us were even born. And ironically the fact that virtually nobody writes with a
    broad-nib pen anymore seems to make no dent into some people's wishful thinking.\r\n\r\n*
    In fact one must believe that stroke contrast was an undesirable compromise, since
    it's certainly not intuitive. Monoline is much more intuitive  - in fact <em>that's
    how <strong>everybody</strong> is <strong>taught</strong> to write</em>. It's
    really quite annoying to witness such broad and deep denialism concerning this
    reality.\r\n\r\n> It is in fact derivative, circumstantial and fortuitous.\r\n\r\nYes,
    yes, no.\r\n\r\n> It facilitated the evolution of a comfortably\r\n> writable
    and broadly readable script.\r\n\r\nYour benchmarks of comfort and breadth\r\nhave
    to be quite low for you to believe this.\r\n\r\n> Writing teaches well-formedness,
    phase alignment and synchronization.\r\n\r\nI don't see any of that.\r\nAnd frankly
    it sounds like post-rationalized chiro-apologism.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-31 17:06:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "How do I know dyslexics don't get to the fast reading stage? I don't really
    know the field, but I thought that if you start out with dyslexia and with training
    are able to read fast, then by definition you've overcome dyslexia. \r\n\r\nI
    only bring up dyslexia because there seem to be research there on handwriting
    and reading. I'm skating on thin ice here, because I haven't looked at any research
    myself. I also found claims that teaching writing helps normal readers, but the
    research looked suspect to me, so I didn't refer to that. "
  created: '2009-03-31 17:15:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> then by definition you\u2019ve overcome dyslexia.\r\n\r\nI would think
    that with judicious practice the condition can remain without precluding immersive
    reading, especially with a properly designed font (especially since non-Latin
    script users typically seem to suffer far less from dyslexia). But I'm no expert
    either.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-31 17:29:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "In fact, if it's true (and I'm pretty sure it is) that dyslexia is predominantly
    a Latin-script problem, it makes good sense to suggest that the supposed right-hand*
    broad-nib pen genesis hasn't been \"fortuitous\" at all - in fact it's been an
    unfortunate -if unwitting- obstacle to ideal performance.\r\n\r\n* I will reiterate
    here that such a right-handed foundation implies there's something cognitively
    wrong with left-handers (about one out of 7 people).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-31 17:33:59'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "I'm not sure I'd say that dyselxia is predominantly a Latin script issue.
    \ Handwritten, many scripts can seem very similar, especially the Euro-5 scripts,
    even though their typed forms are quite different.  However, a brief search on
    google shows that dyslexia is relatively common in Chinese and Arabic script users.
    As to rating commonality between scripts, that's going ot be hard to do, as some
    researches think it manifests itself different according to script, others think
    it's the same, and of course the all important key factor of diagnosis which is
    more common in some areas than in others.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea
    tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz
    Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2009-03-31 17:56:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "If we really do believe that:\r\n- how an individual is taught to write affects
    his reading\r\n- a left-hander using a ball-point pen is not Wrong\r\nthen I'm
    sorry, but this coffin has all its nails in place already. It's just that it contains
    a demigod, and his followers are still seeing visions of him walking the Earth,
    so they refuse to adopt a new, living philosophy. \r\n\r\nHey, maybe we should
    start a pyre instead of suffering periodic\r\ngraveyard visits. I just don't want
    people doing sati on it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-31 17:59:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill, of course raising a child is different from raising a dog, because
    humans are more psychologically complex than dogs. But this is precisely why understanding
    the behaviour of simpler social creatures can be important, because the complexity
    of human beings often masks a lot of basic damage and even leads people to overlook
    or misinterpret behaviour that, in a simpler creature, we would immediately recognise
    as symptomatic of stress, fear and defensive aggression. Further, because we are
    the objects of our own observation, we tend to excuse as personality differences
    things that in simpler creatures we would recognise as pathologies.\r\n\r\n<em>There
    are also times when you should coerce a child. When they are about to walk into
    danger, you pick them up, and carry them away, maybe with them screaming and kicking.</em>\r\n\r\nOf
    course, just as you physically prevent a dog from running in front of a car. But
    in such situations you are not forcing the child to do something: you are doing
    something to the child to prevent the child from doing something. This is an important
    distinction. You are the active agent. You are intervening in the situation. When
    you are not intervening in a situation, you are normally managing it, which is
    something that parents should be doing in all the time. You manage the situation
    to protect the child from danger and also to provide the kind of learning opportunities
    that are important for the child's development. This is why I believe that a kind
    of school is a good thing: a managed environment in which children can learn.
    But there is a big difference between managing the situations within which children
    act and forcing them to perform specific tasks against their will.\r\n\r\nOn something
    close to a daily basis, I witness people abusing their dogs. They don't know they
    they're abusing them, and they think they have a normal human-to-dog relationship
    that consists of pulling and pushing the dog, yelling at it, half throttling it,
    and expecting the dog to be 'well-behaved' because the human has a power over
    it. Sorry to say it, but a lot of people raise children in the same way, and a
    lot of what passes for \u2018education\u2019 in our school systems is based on
    the same approach (just as such abuse is institutionalised in some dog training,
    contrary to all science on animal behaviour and motivation).\r\n\r\nWhat I wrote
    above was that making a social creature do something against its will is not an
    <em>efficient</em> way to achieve the result. It isn't immediately efficient because
    it requires intermediary steps of breaking down the resistant will rather than
    motivating the will in a new direction, and it isn't efficient in the long term
    because the diminishment of trust and affection is contrary to the desired relationship
    between social creatures. Put simply, love and fear are incompatible emotions.
    Sadly, a lot of children fear their parents more than they love them, just as
    more fear school than love it. So the question is not simply whether it is morally
    right to use intimidation, humiliation, or violence to force another creature
    to do something that you want it to do, but whether it is worth using such methods?
    Whether they can be truly considered effective in terms of the larger goals of
    developing healthy social relationships?\r\n\r\nWhen I see someone jerking their
    dog's leash, or a parent shouting at a child, or a teacher humiliating a child,
    I don't think 'Oh dear, what's wrong with that dog or that child?', I wonder what
    is wrong with the adult human. Often the answer is that the person is tired, stressed
    and as a result impatient. But how we treat other social creatures shouldn't be
    based on our own level of patience or impatience, and we should not create institutions
    with built-in impatience (\u2018All children must meet these state assessment
    standards by the end of this term.\u2019)."
  created: '2009-03-31 18:21:38'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: '[[http://www.technologyreview.com/video/?vid=290&a=f|Input device designers
    seem to be striving towards the "writing in the sand" idea.]]'
  created: '2009-03-31 19:41:13'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\u201Cone must believe that stroke contrast was an undesirable compromise,
    since it\u2019s certainly not intuitive. Monoline is much more intuitive.\u201D
    [Hrant]\r\n\r\nMono-line is only more intuitive to the novice. Is it more readable
    as well? Stroke contrast is not, on the face of it intuitive, but from a perceptual
    processing in reading point of view, it makes a lot of sense. Do you really want
    us to believe that you believe one must believe that stroke contrast was an undesirable
    compromise? Wasn't the introduction of stroke contrast rather a beneficial epiphenomenal
    effect that type designers seize on and manipulate in their own \u2018facilitating
    greater readability\u2019 enterprise?"
  created: '2009-03-31 19:54:26'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Why does stroke contrast make sense for reading? It does seem counterintuitive.\r\n(I've
    been waiting for a good opportunity to ask this question.)"
  created: '2009-03-31 20:15:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "A theory of mine is that Stroke contrast helps joins feel more open. Particularly
    with W, N, M kinds of letters and a heavy weight font, there can be a black blotting
    to the eye at joins. This can make a reader regress over such dark spots. \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-31 20:46:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Craig, cool stuff. Reminds me of the great potential of Microsoft's Surface,
    which is massively-multitouch, and the next version will even support \"hovering\"
    detection.\r\n\r\n> Mono-line is only more intuitive to the novice. \r\n\r\nAnd
    the Reader is a novice chirographer! Especially the Left-Handed Reader. There
    are millions of times as many left-handers using a ball-point pen than there are
    right-handers using a broad-nib pen. What does that imply about what people are
    used to?\r\n\r\nYou know what people think of the traditional contrasty \"A\"?\r\nThey
    think there's something wrong, because it's asymmetrical.\r\n\r\n> from a perceptual
    processing in reading\r\n> point of view, it makes a lot of sense.\r\n\r\nOf course.
    And it makes the most sense when you leverage it without being shackled by chirography,
    when you incorporate stroke contrast for its benefits, not because of what cozy
    place it comes from.\r\n\r\nWhat makes most sense is to make a clean break. When
    you go on a maritime adventure, simply leave the doddering grandpa at home.\r\n\r\n>
    Wasn\u2019t the introduction of stroke contrast rather a\r\n> beneficial epiphenomenal
    effect that type designers seize on\r\n\r\nIntroduction? It just happened. Which
    is the sort of arbitrariness I oppose, but you adopt or reject apparently motivated
    solely by a desire to avoid sending the senile demigod to an old folks home.\r\n\r\nMost
    type designers, just like any other majority, simply mimic precedent. Do you really
    believe most of them incorporate stroke contrast because they think it promotes
    readability? Ridiculous. Most of them don't even know why serifs help readability.
    No Peter, they do it for the same reason you push chirography: \"My pappy did
    it that way.\"\r\n\r\n> Why does stroke contrast make sense for reading?\r\n\r\nThe
    answer is right in there: contrast!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-31 20:54:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "But excess stroke contrast kills reading. Bodoni is as contrasty as they
    come but it does not read as well as the more balanced contrasts of the better
    text faces. The key is balance, going overboard either way detracts from readability.
    \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-31 20:59:22'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"you push chirography\"\r\n\r\nI push a progressive and non-reductionistic
    understanding of the past and present, mutual respect, and open-ended, unrestricted
    exploration, be it oriented toward the goal of enhancing functionality for reading
    or arresting style and singularity for display. "
  created: '2009-03-31 21:14:25'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"contrast! :-)\"</em>\r\nOh, so \"stroke\" contrast is linked to degree
    of detail and wealth of information? OK. But how does a contrasted \"m\" communicate
    more \"m-ness\" than a monoline \"m\"?\r\n(I guess I have trouble seeing that
    the contrast in a contrasted face can be made to coincide with highlighting the
    \"important\" bits. Or is that not the point?)\r\nWhere does one get this information?
    Must\u2026 read\u2026 more\u2026 type\u2026 books.\r\n\r\n<em>\"But excess stroke
    contrast kills reading.\"</em>\r\nRight! I find that easier to see than how too
    little contrast hinders reading.\r\n\r\n(Sorry if this is garbled; I'm sick at
    home and taking meds that make me dumb. But I'm tryin'. :-) ) "
  created: '2009-03-31 21:23:22'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">But in such situations you are not forcing the child to do something: you
    are doing something to the child to prevent the child from doing something.\r\n\r\nThat's
    a distinction without a difference. You are forcing the child to go one direction
    rather than another, and it is brute force coercion. It's just that it's responsible
    parenting, and doesn't involve pain. \r\n\r\nAs I was saying, it's a lot more
    complicated, but beyond our scope here. \r\n\r\n>stroke contrast\r\n\r\nThere
    are some different issues here. One is using contrast to counteract the eye's
    seeing something different from what's on the page, which it does all the time.
    As Chris says, a mono-line join looks thicker. Horizontals the same thickness
    as a vertical look thicker. Even vertical division looks low, etc. etc. The best
    example here is Futura, which is way different from geometrical in order to look
    geometrical.\r\n\r\nThe other question is when obvious, apparent contrast is at
    work--such as in most serif type, or stressed sans like Optima. There it does
    seem to help readability, but I really don't understand it. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-31 21:42:36'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill, let's leave off the child-rearing discussion. As you say, it's beyond
    our scope, although I do not agree that the distinction I drew is without difference.\r\n\r\nMy
    comments re. schooling stand, though."
  created: '2009-03-31 22:34:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nina: <em>But how does a contrasted \u201Cm\u201D communicate more \u201Cm-ness\u201D
    than a monoline \u201Cm\u201D?</em>\r\n\r\nIt may not, but it is part of a system
    of signs that, used together, seem to benefit from stroke contrast. The most obvious
    readability benefit I see to consistent use of stroke contrast across letters,
    regardless of the degree to which specific letters benefit from it internally,
    is that this produces consistent spatial frequency. Since both eye and brain need
    to adapt to changes in spatial frequency, being able to maintain consistent spatial
    frequency in text gives the reader less work, meaning he or she can read more
    quickly and comfortably.\r\n\r\nSpatial frequency also explains how it is possible
    to have, on the one hand not enough contrast -- and hence few opportunities to
    modulate spatial frequency of various shapes --, and on the other hand too much
    contrast \xE0 la the more extreme 19th century types -- and hence too great a
    variation in spatial frequency within the letters, causing them to break apart
    perceptually.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-31 22:34:45'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"The other question is when obvious, apparent contrast is at work\u2014such
    as in most serif type, or stressed sans like Optima. There it does seem to help
    readability, but I really don\u2019t understand it.\"</em>\r\nYes William, this
    was the case I was wondering about. I agree it seems to read better, and with
    less effort &ndash; but why\u2026?\r\n\r\nJohn, about this \"spatial frequency\":
    does this refer to the stressing of a kind of repetitive (but varied) <em>pattern</em>
    stretching across different letters? Ahh, I think I can see how that might connect
    multiple letters to words. Whereas with monoline faces, the letters are maybe
    less visually connected to one another (there's less of an overall pattern forming).
    Does this make sense? Am I on to something? :)"
  created: '2009-03-31 22:52:55'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\u201CWhy does stroke contrast make sense for reading? It does seem counterintuitive.\u201D
    [Nina]\r\n\r\nI don't think we really know for sure, but in addition to what others
    posted, let me offer this: the contrast styling typical of translation facilitates
    diversification of counter shapes in pdbq and other pairs. As well, I could hypothesize
    that contrast places accents on the criterial bits for resolving or decomposing
    complex marks into simple role units. It is as if the thins mark off role-unit
    boundaries in a way the visual cortex can use. My context for this is the supposition
    that selective activation of a criterial set of role units in their pattern cues
    rapid automatic visual word-form resolution. I also believe monoline forms are
    too static and self contained. Contrast creates tensive forms that are dynamic
    and reach out to other adjacent forms to bring the larger bounded forms they collectively
    compose to some kind of closure."
  created: '2009-04-01 01:47:52'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nina, I've been looking for a clear, basic definition of spatial frequency,
    but have not found one. Here is a good introduction to the optical effects associated
    with spatial frequency though:\r\nhttp://www.yorku.ca/eye/spafreq.htm\r\n\r\nAnd
    here is a very interesting paper on the role of spatial frequency channels in
    letter recognition:\r\nhttp://psych.nyu.edu/pelli/pubs/majaj2002channel.pdf\r\n\r\nThe
    key finding vis \xE0 vis my comments on typographic contrast, as expressed in
    the conclusion of the above paper, is\r\n\r\n<cite>For each alphabet, font, and
    size, letter identification\r\nis mediated by a single one-or-two-octave-wide
    visual\r\nchannel. Even in the presence of very asymmetric noise\r\ndistributions,
    observers continue using the same channel\r\nto identify and detect letters and
    gratings. Together,\r\nthese two findings say that the channel is selected bottom-\r\nup
    by the signal, not top-down by the observer.</cite>\r\n\r\nFrom this it follows
    that if the signal changes significantly between letters, then a different channel
    must be selected. The paper's authors were testing changes in signal based on
    switching fonts and changing text size, but obviously such changes presume that
    a single font in a single size has a fairly uniform signal, which is what we would
    expect in a well designed typeface. Kevin Larson suggested to me that this might
    begin to explain why typographic contrast is beneficial, and I'm starting to understand
    this in terms of using stroke contrast to modulate and harmonise the signal of
    different letter shapes.\r\n\r\nDesigning Cyrillic letters is revelatory in this
    regard, as the variety of letter proportions is more varied than in Latin, and
    hence greater variety of stroke weight is necessary to compensate for the overall
    density of the letters."
  created: '2009-04-01 01:56:46'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Also note this very important \u2014 from my point of view \u2014 conclusion:
    \"Thus, large letters (and coarse squarewaves) are identi\uFB01ed by their edges;
    small letters (and \uFB01ne squarewaves) are identi\uFB01ed by their gross strokes.\""
  created: '2009-04-01 02:06:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I guess I have trouble seeing that the contrast in a contrasted\r\n> face
    can be made to coincide with highlighting the \u201Cimportant\u201D bits.\r\n\r\nYou've
    made exactly the best observation here. Stroke contrast would be ideal when detached
    from chirography; it should emphasize what each letter needs (although not in
    terms of making it stand out, but rather making it participate ideally in bouma
    formation). Some people -like Javal- have tried making test fonts like this, but
    they haven't had sufficient overall design sensitivity.\r\n\r\n> Contrast creates
    tensive forms that are dynamic and reach out to other adjacent forms\r\n\r\nThis
    is a good way to think about it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-01 02:57:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "It's interesting that the frequency issue may be important. I think that
    at small sizes the thins of high contrast faces may be just harder to detect,
    and that may be a factor.\r\n\r\nAlso note that a high contrast old style, Times
    New Roman, is much less of a problem than a high contrast modern, like Bodoni.
    It seems that having the thins in a horizontal, as opposed to diagonal position
    causes more problems, for whatever reason.  "
  created: '2009-04-01 02:58:11'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\u201CStroke contrast [...] should emphasize what each letter needs (although
    not in terms of making it stand out, but rather making it participate ideally
    in bouma formation).\u201D [Hrant]\r\n\r\nI think there are two requirements here:
    participation in bouma formation and ready decomposability into role-units. Reading
    is of wholes and mediated by quantization of glyphic information into letter parts.
    I think Hrant\u2019s functional ontology of reading ignores the latter."
  created: '2009-04-01 03:24:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think that letterwise recognition happens very reliably in the fovea even
    with quite poorly salient shapes*, while in the parafovea it is a letter's participation
    in bouma formation that matters; and in the latter (which is about 2/3-rds of
    reading) letter parts do nothing of their own.\r\n\r\n* This is why fovea-centric
    field testing (like what Larson has carried out) shows very little performance
    variation between quite extremely different fonts. Your theory does not explain
    this reality.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-01 03:35:17'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Hrant, the idea that the fovea is the domain of letter recognition and that
    the parafovea is the domain of bouma based reading is precisely where we disagree.
    \r\n\r\nI believe parafoveal preview assembles accurate but coarse-grained ensemble
    statistics to facilitate rapid automatic visual wordform (bouma) resolution on
    the bases of selective quantization of a criterial amount of letter parts in the
    fovea. In other words I think what happens relative to foveal vision in the visual
    cortex in immersive reading is massively boama based, that is, oriented to resolving
    the gestalt in all its detail and particularity. I think the 2/3 falls the other
    way. Short, syntactically and grammatically expected words require little more
    than the parafoveal preview.\r\n\r\nThis fundamental disagreement lies at the
    heart of the differences in understanding between you and me."
  created: '2009-04-01 04:00:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "As you know, we've been over all this before...  :-/\r\n\r\nThere are two
    reasons your theory can't be right:\r\n1) Average saccade lengths are about triple
    the fovea's span.\r\n2) The fovea's resolution is very high; and visual cognition
    identifies numerous individual letters in parallel much faster than lexical analysis
    can be performed. Ergo: there's no reason to worry about boumas/notan/serifs/contrast/anything
    in the fovea (this being Larson's stance). The parafovea is what makes or breaks
    a text font.\r\n\r\n> Short, syntactically and grammatically expected\r\n> words
    require little more than the parafoveal preview.\r\n\r\nThis parafoveal \"previewing\"
    is entirely half-baked, and cannot make sense in any model of reading. With reading
    experience much more than \"from\", etc. can be \"guessed\" - and the point is
    guesswork is exactly how reading becomes immersive. Without guesswork you're effectively
    limited to the fovea. And regressions are failures in guesswork - but in essence
    you're not going fast enough if you don't fail sometimes.\r\n\r\nYour model ignores
    large swathes of evidence, not to mention plain logic. To be brutally honest the
    only thing it seems to satisfy is your desire to prop up certain pre-existing
    beliefs; beliefs that perhaps you didn't recognize when you first embarked on
    this adventure, but that nonetheless were apparently bound to take control of
    your conclusions in the end. This is not an attack, but advice: you should realize
    that there cannot be any real exploration within the safe confines of your father's
    house.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-01 06:08:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hrant, just googling, I get from [[http://books.google.com/books?id=d00Ie8ftEnwC&pg=PA299&lpg=PA299&dq=average+saccade+length&source=bl&ots=JwT9z0G41N&sig=H4m95sMYup5XZMFc_BkHs2H9Sk0#PPA299,M1|this
    recent book]] on eye movements that the average saccade length in normal reading
    is 7-8 letters, which is within the span of the fovea at normal reading distance,
    I believe. \r\n\r\nWhat is your source for the greater length of saccades? "
  created: '2009-04-01 14:04:04'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Yes, we\u2019ve been over this before, an you and I are in a stale-mate.\r\n\r\n1)
    Your estimate of the foveal span is conveniently narrow. Most estimates of the
    form resolving field or the uncrowded span where vision is sharp give it the length
    of a four to six letter word at text sizes.\r\n\r\n2) In your second point you\u2019ve
    capitulated to the conventional understanding of how perceptual processing during
    foveation works when vision is confronted with word-gestalts or visual informational
    bounded maps. I am swimming against the stream when it comes to this. I take my
    cue from Frank Smith in his 1967 dissertation, and more recently from the work
    of Chad Marsolek and Joseph Devlin. You are rowing against the stream of prevailing
    wisdom when it comes to the capabilities of the parafovea. On the one hand there
    are those who say letters are used to 15 character spaces from fixation. On the
    other hand there are those who say, on the basis of their data, that crowding
    is so severe with normal letter spacing in the parafovea that feature identification
    and intgration is massively error prone. No one, not even Herman Bouma believes
    that the bulk of immersive reading occurs inside the parafovea. The eye, during
    immersive reading fixates within at least 2/3 of the words within a text. More
    when articles and conjunctions are discounted.\r\n\r\nThe father thing is entirely
    a red herring, and the earlier insinuations about demagogary and senility are
    downright manipulative and cruel. Should I retaliate? I came to this in 1999 with
    an Noordzijian a priori. What predisposed me toward that was a preoccupation \u2014
    that goes back to the 1970s \u2014 with the \u201Cphenomenology of perception.\u201D
    My a priori is the idea that it is the word-image, which includes it's black and
    white components, that is read. This, as I was to find out, also goes back to
    an early consensus among psychologists. This is what was behind my attraction
    to the bouma concept. My respect for Noordzij\u2019s type-analytic framework is
    secondary to this. The idea that the domain of type design is open-ended feature
    manipulation is my own, and the idea that this involves norm-violation and aggregation
    relative to what is already in existence, and might lead to new benchmarks comes
    from Douglas Hofstadter and Manuel De Landa. The idea that interpreting action
    or ideas in terms of clean binary oppositions is pernicious comes from Derrida,
    and my distaste for George Bush and what he represents. So you see, I have many
    fathers. And all have important things to say.\r\n\r\nI do not ignore swathes
    of evidence. I am deeply, critically and creatively engaged with stacks of recent
    and not so recent studies. And in the domain of how vision, neural transmission
    and the visual cortex works your plain logic is not as compelling as you suppose
    or a substitute for continued exploration."
  created: '2009-04-01 15:05:50'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Let me add that my understanding of what happens in parafoveal vision is
    not complete, nor is my understanding of what happens in foveal vision definitively
    borne out. I want to keep the options open. I don't have a detailed knowledge
    of the shape, scope and granularity of ensemble statistics the parafovea assembles.
    But my construction of how reading works is how it looks to me right now. At best
    it is useful, grounded, progressive and fertile, at worst it is a deeply flawed
    personal construction and a regressive, stammering account.\r\n\r\nMaybe Hrant,
    your understanding errs as much in the direction of the parafovea as mine does
    in the direction of the fovea. Who knows. Other minds might have to sort this
    out."
  created: '2009-04-01 15:26:38'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Wow, what a fascinating thread. I don't really want to interrupt the current
    sub-thread, but let me quickly sneak this in:\r\n\r\nThanks for shedding some
    light on the contrast issue. Peter, your point of diversification is well taken
    &ndash; at least in the case of the bdpq and similars; though I'm not sure if
    letters like, say, nmu don't get even *more* similar at least in the case of traditional/pen-based
    contrast being applied, since that stresses mostly the verticals, which seem to
    be exactly one feature that is pretty much <em>the same</em> across different
    lettershapes?\r\n\r\n<em>\"As well, I could hypothesize that contrast places accents
    on the criterial bits for resolving or decomposing complex marks into simple role
    units. It is as if the thins mark off role-unit boundaries in a way the visual
    cortex can use.\"</em>\r\nInteresting! But would this mean that the \"heavier\"
    parts are inherently more crucial as \"building blocks\" for the \"correct\" perception
    of a letter-(/word-)shape, while the thins mainly serve to mark the boundaries
    between them? &ndash; But then why should, say, in a \"W\", the \"downwards\"
    diagonals be more crucial in making the letterform what it is, than the \"upwards\"
    diagonals? Is that just a pattern thing?\r\n\r\n<em>\"Stroke contrast would be
    ideal when detached from chirography; it should emphasize what each letter needs\"</em>\r\nThis
    seems so logical. Hrant, is Javal's work in this respect documented somewhere?\r\n\u2026
    I guess at the same time you also need some sort of visual pattern (and not just
    have functionally important, but visually random-looking parts stressed)?\r\n\r\nSpeaking
    of patterns, thank you John for the spatial frequency related input. I'll admit
    it is utterly and completely over my head at the moment; I'm going to have to
    let it sink in a bit. But I did notice that the <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spatial_frequency\">Wikipedia
    entry</a> mentions that the discrimination of spatial frequencies is often lacking
    in dyslexics, which might be interesting."
  created: '2009-04-01 16:27:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eye_movement_in_language_reading|Wikipedia
    article on Eye Movement in Reading]] contains this informative illustration of
    what the fovea sees in reading:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/EyeFixationsReading_6193.gif]\r\n\r\n.\r\nAs
    you can see--and you can test it for yourself with the image--while the foveal
    vision is 100% sharp at 4-5 letters, according to this, it is 75% sharp for 8-12
    letters. Now I'm assuming that this is not step-wise, but smooth fall-off, so
    that the average saccade being 7-8 letters means that most reading can take place
    within the span where the fovea can distinguish sub-letter parts. \r\n\r\nSo putting
    this information on what the fovea sees together with the information from 2007
    book I cite above, it seems that the evidence here goes with Peter's view, and
    contradicts Hrant's. Do you have some other sources, Hrant?  "
  created: '2009-04-01 16:57:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "What does this do for very long words? Does it mean that German is inherantly
    harder to read than Spanish?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-04-01 17:35:01'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: It is for me!
  created: '2009-04-01 18:05:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Following up a reference in the Wikipedia article I read about a [[http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/science/nature/6983176.stm|fascinating
    study]] which found that when we read we don't fixate on the same letter with
    both eyes. Instead, each eye fixates on a letter typically two letters away from
    the other. This would extend the \"100% sharp\" area two more letters, so the
    100% sharp area is 6-7 letters. This puts the average 7-8 letter saccade almost
    all in the most sharp area of focus, and the rest within an only slightly deteriorated
    sharpness. \r\n\r\nChris, it does look like long words pose a problem. It may
    be that German readers fixate more than once on a long word. \r\n\r\nOh, and,
    following the study I referenced maybe they're better at reading cross-eyed :) "
  created: '2009-04-01 18:33:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Peter:<em>On the other hand there are those who say, on the basis of their
    data, that crowding is so severe with normal letter spacing in the parafovea that
    feature identification and intgration is massively error prone.</em>\r\n\r\nBill:<em>...assuming
    that this is not step-wise, but smooth fall-off, so that the average saccade being
    7-8 letters means that most reading can take place within the span where the fovea
    can distinguish sub-letter parts.</em>\r\n\r\n[Thanks for the acuity image, Bill.
    This is a very helpful reference point.]\r\n\r\nI've been thinking about the perceptual
    difference between a static fixation and a saccadic fixation, the phenomenal difference
    being, of course, duration and movement. A saccadic fixation is one of a series
    of such fixations, and I think it is important to realise that this means that
    the parafoveal region between the fixations is seen not one but twice: from either
    side. And if both these views of words in the parafovea contribute to word recognition,
    then the overall acuity is higher than it would be of the same region in a static
    fixation.\r\n\r\nEven presuming a longer than average saccade of 10 letters, using
    the acuity image that Bill posted as a reference, one can see that a second saccadic
    fixation after the illustrated one, falling in the first part of the word 'letters',
    would mean that, seen from both sides, perception of the intervening letters would
    all have approx. 75% acuity or higher. This is 'reading in the parafovea' that
    I can accept."
  created: '2009-04-01 19:44:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Sorry, but I don't buy the \"image\" of parafoveal vision as a Photoshop
    blur filter.\r\n\r\nA blur is a high-res phenomenon.\r\nIf, as is the usual fashion,
    we are going to take our biological metaphors from the latest technology, shouldn't
    there be some kind of retinal sub-pixel hinting going on?"
  created: '2009-04-01 19:56:35'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Nick, psychologists have various terms for what happens in parafoveal vision.
    Some talk about compulsory averaging of feature-based information, others talk
    about pooling because of crowding. I tend to think there is an inhibition of quantization
    (resolution into role-units) because of the density of rods and cones in parafoveal
    vision, that prevents rapid automatic visual wordform resolution, but allows indexing
    of what's to come, and the affords gathering of some kind of accurate ensemble
    statistics which goes beyond envelope structure. Maybe it has to do with pre-designating
    where criterial areas lie on the bases of, or the pre-designation of salient centres.
    It\u2019s a dark area."
  created: '2009-04-01 20:19:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">A blur is a high-res phenomenon.\r\n\r\nNick, the article explains that
    the blurring is a simulation, and not what we see. The blur just indicates the
    degradation in the information available to us as we move away from the center
    of fixation. But just testing by fixating one eye, you can see it's a pretty good
    simulation. \r\n\r\nI was also struck that 50% of the optic nerve receptors of
    the eye are in the small area of the fovea. Given that also probably most of the
    information to the right of the foveal fixation (reading left-to-right text) is
    detected by the left half of the eye, Hrant's view that the parafovea is paramount
    would be a very inefficient way of reading.  \r\n\r\nAnd, according [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Macular_degeneration|to
    this article on macular degeneration]] those whose central vision area has been
    destroyed by disease, while leaving the parafovea functional, *cannot read*. That
    seems to me to refute Hrant's theory--if I understand it rightly--that reading
    is primarily a due to the activity of the parafovea. "
  created: '2009-04-01 20:45:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Peter, it may be a dark area, but representing it as a blur is patently wrong.\r\n\r\nDo
    you deny that a blur is high resolution?\r\n(Resolution being a quality of the
    medium as much as of the lens, if not more so.)\r\n\r\nSo, if the parafoveal retina
    has fewer rods and cones, surely it doesn't make sense to represent parafoveal
    images at the same resolution as foveal images."
  created: '2009-04-01 20:47:24'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: Nick, I don't think of it as blurry. The descriptions surveyed in my post
    are attempts to come up with alternative characterizations.
  created: '2009-04-01 20:56:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Nick, the blur is an illustrative simulation, and frankly neither interesting
    nor significant. The important part of the image is the acuity measurement along
    the bottom, which allows one to relate acuity to letter distances across the parafovea.
    Combined with information on average saccade length from eye-tracking data, this
    provides a good indication of just how much acuity one can expect in the inter-fixation
    parafovea.
  created: '2009-04-01 21:01:17'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: John, are you suggesting there's an uptake of information <em>during</em>
    a saccade? If I.m not mistaken, this has been demonstrated to be incorrect.
  created: '2009-04-01 21:04:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I don't have the time right now to absorb, process and argue for/against
    all the interesting stuff in the recent posts, but there is a runaway train of
    illogic that I must try to stop, especially since it was partly due to bad \"signaling\"
    on my part.\r\n\r\nI didn't really mean \"average\", sorry (although even the
    average is more than the fovea's span). What I meant was the long end. Concerning
    which that Wikipedia article tellingly states: \"The distance the eye moves in
    each saccade (or short rapid movement) is between 1 and 20 characters.\"\r\n\r\n20!
    So maybe I was wrong about 2/3-rds... I should have said 80%!\r\nPlease think
    deeply -and coolly- about what that implies.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-01 21:10:33'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: 'I''ll bet the 20 character leap is more frequently followed by a regression
    than the average leap. '
  created: '2009-04-01 21:26:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Doesn't look like it:\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Reading_VOG_hor.gif\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-01 21:46:34'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Peter: <em>John, are you suggesting there\u2019s an uptake of information
    during a saccade?</em>\r\n\r\nNo, absolutely not. I'm pointing out that during
    fixations we do not only have a parafoveal preview of the text ahead -- enabling
    cuing of the next fixation -- but was also have a parafoveal <em>review</em> of
    the letters between the last fixation and the present one. This, <em>to the degree
    that acuity permits,</em> provides the opportunity to confirm identification of
    cue features in this region. Since acuity is highest closer to the foveal fixation,
    this means that the perception of preceding letters immediately to the left of
    the new fixation is more accurate than the perception of the same letters during
    the previous fixation. This is illustrated in the image below (without attempting
    to illustrate the acuity diminishment by blurring):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/EyeFixationsReading_JH_4033.gif]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-01 21:48:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Even if the length of the saccade between the first and second fixation is
    doubled, i.e. to 20 letters, this means that the acuity, from both directions,
    would be greater than 32%. The cognitive accuracy would presumably be higher since
    the same letters would be processed twice, once in each fixation, enabling more
    accurate guessing of word identity.
  created: '2009-04-01 21:58:33'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "[Note that the right fixation in my illustration should be labelled 'Fixation
    2'.]\r\n\r\n\r\nWhen counting saccade length in terms of letters, are word spaces
    counted or not?"
  created: '2009-04-01 22:03:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hrant, Peter and I would grant that the parafovea plays a role in planning
    the next saccade. And we know that sometimes the eye skips small words and goes
    to salient ones. That would account for the occasional large jumps. \r\n\r\nAnd
    note that these are unusual. Most are much shorter, consistent with reading in
    the fovea being the main thing. In your view, it seems to me, most should be much
    longer, as we are using the parafovea so much anyway. \r\n\r\nBut in any case
    the tragically devastating affect of macular degeneration on the ability to read
    just flat refutes your view, it seems to me. "
  created: '2009-04-01 22:07:10'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "John, it\u2019s my impression character spaces are used. I think your backward
    confirmation idea is an interesting concept, but I've never seen it dealt with.
    Hrant, the diagram shows a very small sample, and we\u2019re not given information
    about how long any of the sacaddes in the sample are. Which if any of the ones
    shown are 20 characters in length?\r\n\r\nMy implicit point that one needs to
    look a lot more closely at the ranges and the patterns if one wants to do meaningful
    arithmetic."
  created: '2009-04-01 22:32:16'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: I think Unger's <em>While you're reading</em> is much more clear than that
    Wikipedia article. :P
  created: '2009-04-02 02:18:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So is Eric Carle.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-02 02:22:28'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: I don't know Eric Carle.
  created: '2009-04-02 03:55:14'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: http://eric-carle.com/bio.html
  created: '2009-04-02 04:17:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "\"Little white boy, little white boy, what do you read?\"\r\n\"I read a short
    book set in Comic Sans!\"\r\n\"Middle-aged black man, middle-aged black man, what
    do you read?\"\r\n\"I read a long novel set in some Garamond!\"\r\nRepeat variations
    ad nauseam.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-02 04:55:18'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\u201CPlease think deeply \u2014 and coolly \u2014 about what that implies.\u201D
    [Hrant]\r\n\r\nOk, so we\u2019ve had our bedtime story and presumably we have
    a good night\u2019s rest and a hearty, nutritious breakfast.\r\n\r\nThe question
    is: how much uptake, and what kind of uptake (foveal or parafoveal) of visual
    information does it take too stay robustly connected with the unfolding thread
    of sense ensconced in the written text. For context let me quote what Marilyn
    Jager Adams says [1991]: \u201Cthe dynamics of visual information uptake are shown
    [by eye-movement studies] to be quite tightly bound to the print on the page even
    as they are complexly influenced by top-down factors\u201D\r\n\r\nOn Hrant\u2019s
    logic 80 percent of the uptake can be parafoveal.\r\nQuestion: doesn\u2019t that
    claim mean 80 percent of all the visual information is not rendered 100 percent
    sharply, and do you wish to imply that this implies 80 percent of all the words
    need not be fixated in?\r\nQuestion: is it sound deductive practice to base estimates
    of what normally happens, or, in the best of all possible worlds, what can happen,
    on upper thresholds?\r\nQuestion: how often and under what circumstances does
    a saccade hit the upper threshold?\r\nQuestion: when it hits 20, what is skipped:
    prepositional phrases, auxiliary information or key words, i.e., highly anticipatable
    textual information, assuming that at least to some degree reading is a \u201Cpsycho-linguistic
    guessing game?\u201D\r\nQuestion: when saccades are average, what is skipped:
    conjunctions, prepositions, articles, prefixes, suffixes, declentional markers,
    morphemic add-ons, what else?\r\nQuestion: counting regressive saccades, in a
    typical text how many words are actually skipped?"
  created: '2009-04-02 14:55:07'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: 'My point above is we need to know all that to be able to gauge what parafoveal
    perception really does. And consider: what happens in the parafoveum happens as
    a kind of sidebar to what is more centrally happening where visual attention is
    actually focused.'
  created: '2009-04-02 15:09:56'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Peter, all your questions are good ones, but not necessary to challenge Hrant's
    contention that 80% of reading is in the parafovea, if indeed that is his claim.
    \r\n\r\nFor macular degeneration provides a crucial test: it knocks out the vision
    of the fovea and leaves the vision of the parafovea intact. And those who suffer
    from this horrible ailment can't read. So 80% of reading can't be in the parafovea.
    End of story. \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2009-04-02 15:29:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Fortunately, making revivals does not\r\nrequire a strong grasp of readability...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-02 16:08:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Fortunately, making revivals does not\r\nrequire a strong grasp of readability...\r\n\r\nHrant,
    facts are stubborn things. They don't bend to bend to you or I, or to name-calling
    and attempts to belittle the person who points them out.   \r\n\r\nThe fact is
    that macular degeneration destroys the ability to read. \r\n\r\nIf your understanding
    of these matters is so superior, then you can easily explain where I have gone
    wrong in interpreting what seems to me the plain message of a disease that destroys
    the ability to read by disabling the only fovea, and not the parafovea: the parafovea
    is not of dominant importance in reading. "
  created: '2009-04-02 16:42:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "There are practical and psychological\r\nlimits to how much I can try to
    help.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-02 16:42:32'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Thanks for the link, Craig. It seems I did know Eric Carle after all. I had
    the book \"The Very Hungry Caterpillar\" when I was young (in fact I still have
    it).\r\n\r\nAlthough the Dutch name is much better, which is \"Rupsje Nooitgenoeg\"
    (roughly translates to Caterpillar Neverenough).\r\n\r\nAnd I also had his book
    \"Do You Want to Be My Friend\"."
  created: '2009-04-02 18:11:18'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "In the interest of bringing this roilling and and sometimes rollicking subthread
    to some kind of resolution, let me offer this.\r\n\r\nType design <em>must</em>,
    at least somewhere / in some of it\u2019s prominent manifestations, aggressively
    engage in post-chirographic exploration, rather than staying only with chiro-derivative
    refinement, deconstruction, reconstruction and elaboration.\r\n\r\nNotes: 1) I
    mean <em>post</em>, not doctrinally </em>anti</em>; 2) the reason for my saying
    this is that we do not yet know to what degree, or just why the contrast-styling
    typical of the broad-nibbed pen (with or without rotation and expansion) or the
    flexible pointed brush appears to be advantageous, but we think it is, even though
    we strongly suspect that improving the notanic constituency of words might be
    more achievable by breaking out of it in much more systematic and fundamental
    ways than have been exercised so far; 3) there are compelling perceptual-processing
    reasons to retain <em>some kind of</em> a contrapuntal link between opposing control-point
    locations on vectors forming outlines no matter how distant from translation,
    translation with rotation, and expansion they might be, and there are compelling
    perceptual-processing reasons to violate strict frontal arithmetic for the sake
    of gestalt-enhancing notan.  My hypothesis is that both benefit both foveal uptake
    of words as boumas or gestalts and paravoveal indexing of words as informationally
    replete and unitary objects. They are countervailing pressures, based on the fact
    that perception is of wholes and relative to parts.\r\n\r\nWe need to do this
    because of what it might yield.\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-02 19:13:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Peter: <em>Type design must, at least somewhere / in some of it\u2019s prominent
    manifestations, aggressively engage in post-chirographic exploration, rather than
    staying only with chiro-derivative refinement, deconstruction, reconstruction
    and elaboration.</em>\r\n\r\nI think type design <em>should</em> broaden its base
    in a variety of ways, but I'd like to know on what basis you think it <em>must.</em>"
  created: '2009-04-03 03:35:06'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "John, I wrote \u201Cmust\u201D because because we owe it to ourselves: one
    of the countervailing pressures pushes in that direction. It might yield to an
    even tighter bouma in gestalt or optical grammatical terms \u2014 that is a bounded
    map that resists componental decomposition into, or inhibits slot-processing via,
    independent letters units.\r\n\r\nPerhaps the distinction between \u2018derivative\u2019
    and \u2018post\u2019 is that \u2018derivative\u2019 feature manipulation is intuitive,
    incidental, sometimes not fully conscious of the frontal constituency of it's
    base or the logic of it's norm violations, and hence ad hoc; while \u2018post\u2019
    is aware, analytically grounded, structurally basic and systematic. The problem
    with the incidental and ad hoc is that it can be contaminated with aesthetically
    preferential a priori. The proper concerns of type design are the optical-grammatical
    and the gestural-atmospheric.\r\n\r\nThis is somewhat on the fly. I'm trying to
    forge a new consensus. For what it\u2019s worth."
  created: '2009-04-03 13:49:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Your critique of derivative featural manipulation is good, but I think the
    problem goes deeper than chiro-derivative design; indeed, I would say that the
    discernable chirographic derivation is largely an historical accident rather than
    essential to the phenomenon of derivation. The fact is that the vast majority
    of type design can and largely has been built on derivation of past-practice:
    that past-practice has itself been derived from chirographic models, but it needn't
    have been so. Imagine that Gutenberg had not decided to emulate textura manuscript
    forms, and instead had invented an entirely new form of typographic letter and
    that this had been successful in terms of cultural and functional acceptance by
    readers. The subsequent history of typeface design could still have been largely
    derivative of past practice. Evidence for this can be found in the fact that a
    great many designers do not look at type as chirographically derived, instead
    stressing a distinctively typographic history independent of the pen (locally,
    Bill Berkson is usually the most vocal representative of this view), yet still
    rely heavily on past-practice as the guiding principle of typeface design.\r\n\r\n<em>The
    problem with the incidental and ad hoc is that it can be contaminated with aesthetically
    preferential a priori. The proper concerns of type design are the optical-grammatical
    and the gestural-atmospheric.</em>\r\n\r\n...and the cultural-aesthetic. I don't
    think there are any grounds for reducing the concerns of type design to the optical-grammatical
    and gestural-atmospheric (not quite sure what you mean by atmospheric, though).
    I would agree if reading were such a difficult thing that all attention had to
    be paid to optimising shapes for legibility and readability. But reading isn't
    difficult, and as a result all writing systems -- in both typographic and chirographic
    form -- have tended toward cultural-aesthetic expression (not to be confused with
    the kind of individual expression against which Hrant rails), i.e. expression
    of shared ideas and ideals about attractive form married to the <em>prerequisite</em>
    function of text. We don't only want text to be readable, we also want it to be
    visually inviting and to reflect, in its form, broader ideas in our culture. There
    have certainly been times in history when the cultural-aesthetic concerns of type
    design have taken too great prominence and undermined the prerequisite functionality:
    the post-romantic Victorian types tended to this. But aesthetic decadence is a
    cultural phenomenon, and it is better to recognise it and work through it than
    to say that the cultural-aesthetic concern should be banished altogether.\r\n\r\nSo
    the problem I see with incidental and ad hoc feature manipulation isn't \u2018contamination
    with aesthetically preferential a priori\u2019, but the tendency to rely on past
    practice rather than conscious understanding of what one is doing. Ironically,
    at least in Hrantian terms, it is Noordzij's stroke model analysis that first
    suggested to me a new kind of consciousness in type design: an understanding of
    letter shapes from the inside-out, rather than from what you might call historico-conventional
    derivation. And I think this consciousness -- what we can call para-chirographic
    consciousness -- is itself only recently bearing fruit in type design and, by
    virtue of its consciousness, invites post-chirographic response. So I see the
    para-chirographic and the post-chirographic as parallel directions, both characterised
    by a from-within consciousness in shape making."
  created: '2009-04-03 18:46:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">stressing a distinctively typographic history independent of the pen\r\n\r\nWell,
    since being proved spectacularly wrong by you, James Mosley and others on thread
    about Baskerville and the pointed pen, I um, qualified my views. I still think
    a lot type design is influenced by and in reaction against past type. But changes
    in writing instruments are also still an influence. Today we have types influenced
    by the brush, by felt tip pens (Mark Simonson's Felt Tip) and by routers used
    for cutting signs (Olsen's Bryant), for example.  "
  created: '2009-04-03 19:08:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"But changes in writing instruments are also still an influence.\"\r\n\r\nincluding
    the double-thumbed text message, computer keyboard (and monitor), and graffiti
    spraycan.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-04-03 19:50:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Ironically, at least in Hrantian terms, it is Noordzij\u2019s\r\n> stroke
    model analysis that first suggested to me a new\r\n> kind of consciousness in
    type design\r\n\r\nIt's funny how that happens. My own dive into alphabet reform
    was triggered by the book \"Counterpunch\", where a modification to the \"j\"
    was suggested; and shortly afterwards I thought I saw an \"a\" facing the wrong
    way... except it wasn't, but then it was like being let out of a cage. Even though
    Smeijers cannot be accused of favoring my views at all!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-03 20:03:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: And after all this time, Hrant, I'm still not sure whether you are motivated
    <em>by<em> a revolutionary impulse <em>to</em> a revolutionary impulse.
  created: '2009-04-03 21:45:23'
date: '2009-03-26 13:49:05'
title: Learning handwriting

---
