---
author:
  name: VectorM
  picture: 115671
body: "Hi there,\r\n\r\nI am basically interested in finding out more about (links
  would be great) fonts and its protection.\r\n\r\nI recently encountered a couple
  of situations with clients where they demanded the fonts/typefaces used. They wouldn't
  understand that we can't just give away $400+ family. Not to mention that costs
  can go up based on the users or system that will have this family installed. \r\n\r\nFor
  one client we actually stated that the purchase of a single weight would be necessary
  since we were going after something extremely unique. Client here was billed for
  the project, and of course the font purchase was part of the whole cost. Now couple
  of weeks later, they want that font because they said they paid for it. They say
  that they shouldn't pay for a font that we would end up using for a future clients
  some time.\r\n\r\nThen last week 2 programmers were having a discussion with some
  designers like myself, on fonts and its protections. They were arguing in favor
  of:\r\n\u2022 purchasing a font, deleting it from your computer, and giving it away
  to the client after completion of the project. They couldn't say much after somebody
  asked about what would happen if the designer was to do another job for them. What
  do client need to delete the font again, and send it to the designer?\r\n\u2022
  they were saying that since fonts are software, nobody, not even type foundries
  can put exclusive rights or laws to the fonts, like limiting users. They said that
  it doesn't matter that foundries want to add to their legal blurbs, it's software
  and one SHOULD be able to transfer or give away the font without having to purchase
  another copy of it.\r\n\u2022 they basically said all that stuff about foundries
  charging more if 5 users will use the font rather than 1 or if 50 will instead of
  10, is BS. They said nothing foundries want should be taken seriously because in
  the end they are software and nothing else.\r\n\r\nSo, Can fonts be transferable?
  Can they be given away as long as they are deleted from the computer of the first
  user?\r\n\r\nIf a clients pays for a service, and a font is bought and added to
  the cost of the project, could the designer/programmer end up giving the entire
  family away to the client before deleting the family from the computers of the designers/programmers?\r\n\r\nWhat
  are the exact laws surrounding transferring fonts? How do you people charge for
  fonts if a projects calls for something that news to be purchased? How do you deal
  with people that want the font? How do you protect yourselves from clients that
  request the fonts?\r\n\r\nDo type foundries have actual legal voice on this regard
  since the programmers we talked to said that they can come up with every rule/limitations
  on the usage but it has NO legal valu in the end.\r\nDo type foundries ever find
  out about users that have done something against their copyright info?\r\n\r\nThanx
  everybody for any possible input you might have."
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Seems as if everything here should be clearly called out in your contract
    with the font supplier (ie the font EULA you agreed to) and your legal contract
    with the client (which you also agreed to). \r\n\r\nIf you want to extract yourself
    from these legal obligations then you probably need to talk to an attorney and
    not a bunch of font geeks or programmers. \r\n\r\nIf your contract with the client
    calls for fonts along with all other assets to be handed over to them, and the
    font EULA does not allow for transfers then you're best bet would be to refund
    the client the cost of the license or simply license it on their behalf.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-30 02:43:25'
- author:
    name: VectorM
    picture: 115671
  body: "But what about that argument from the programmers that nothing like the font
    EULA or anything set by the type foundry has any validity since fonts are software
    and as that all laws on Software overwrite any EULA or limitations given from
    the foundry?\r\n\r\nHow do you guys deal with this situations? How do you work
    this out with clients?"
  created: '2009-03-30 02:46:33'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">But what about that argument from the programmers that nothing like the
    font EULA or anything set by the type foundry has any validity since fonts are
    software and as that all laws on Software overwrite any EULA or limitations given
    from the foundry?\r\n\r\nI would not take legal advice from programmers. Even
    if you are a \"one disk company\" -  ie one licensed copy of PhotoShop, one licensed
    copy of Visual Studio, one copy of Mac OS, installed on multiple machines that's
    one thing, you can take that risk. But are you in a position to pass on this level
    or risk to your clients?  "
  created: '2009-03-30 02:51:31'
- author:
    name: VectorM
    picture: 115671
  body: "Thing here is that one of the programmers has a BA on something I forgot,
    so he may have a few good points hard to argue. He does know about law and the
    legality of software. He understands just fine that one can't just make copies
    of photoshop and give them away. Since he is stuck in the middle of us as a studio
    and the client he is trying to benefit the client and keep them happy. This is
    why he is claiming that the fonts should be (THEY HAVE TO BE, coz foundries have
    no opinion on this matter according to him) able to be given away fully to the
    client as long as we delete them completely from our systems.\r\n\r\n\r\nif anybody
    has some links where I can see in detail font copyright information and a big
    plus would be if I could see if software laws overwrite ANYTHING set by the foundries.
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-30 03:03:36'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "So the license your company accepted for Photoshop is legally binding but
    the one you accepted for the fonts is somehow worthless?\r\n\r\n>Thing here is
    that one of the programmers has a BA on something I forgot, \r\n\r\nThe funniest
    thing I've heard all day! Thanks ;-)\r\n\r\nSad thing is that someone here will
    likely give you an answer that supports your desire to rip off the font designer,
    and you'll be happy. Best of luck with that.\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-30 03:21:37'
- author:
    name: VectorM
    picture: 115671
  body: "What?\r\n\r\nDid I say I want to do the wrong thing? Did I \"f\" say I want
    to rip off the typographer? I don't ever want to do this, this is why i am asking
    for some good reads, comment and links so i can better articulate my reason to
    the client.\r\n\r\nI am arguing AGAINST giving the font away for free. I (we)
    support typographers, except the clients and the programmers who are giving us
    a hard time.\r\n\r\nWE DO NOT WANT TO GIVEN IT AWAY FOR FREE!! We already talked
    to all these people and politely explained the situation and we sent them to the
    proper links so THEY can purchase the font legally. WHY IS THIS MY FAULT NOW?
    \r\n\r\nIt's not about me! I just wanted some input, links, comments, thoughts
    on regards to the EULA of fonts and the general software laws so that I CAN MORE
    CLEARLY EXPLAIN THIS to the clients.\r\n\r\nJesus christ. "
  created: '2009-03-30 03:38:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "You have to decide how to deal with the situation where you can either expense
    a font purchase to a particular project (as \"materials\"), or cover its cost
    as part of general operating expenses (as a \"tool\").\r\n\r\nSorry, there are
    no easy answers. \r\n\r\nSome font EULAS do allow transfer, providing the new
    licensee accepts the terms of the EULA.\r\n\r\n<em>...if anybody has some links...</em>\r\n\r\nYou
    can study EULAs of different foundries online. \r\nGoogle a foundry name and \"EULA\".\r\nOr
    search a multi-foundry distributor such as MyFonts."
  created: '2009-03-30 03:40:10'
- author:
    name: VectorM
    picture: 115671
  body: "Think about this\u2026\r\n\r\nYou are young, never done anything illegal
    on regards to fonts and software\u2026 then you argue against some clients and
    a programmer that has a degree in law or some stuff like that and had a career
    change and turned into a computer geek and claims he actually does know about
    this. As a young person, it's hard to face this and properly state reasons to
    NOT give away or distribute fonts.\r\n\r\nSee what I am saying now? I just wanna
    be more armed and prepared so I can wisely discuss this stuff in favour of us
    (designers, typographers, etc\u2026)."
  created: '2009-03-30 03:44:46'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Did I \u201Cf\u201D say I want to rip off the typographer\r\n\r\nYes Jesus...\r\n\r\n\"a
    <STRONG>big plus</STRONG> would be if I could see if software laws overwrite ANYTHING
    set by the foundries.\"\r\n\r\nYou're specifically looking for a loop hole - not
    links that support the position that EULAs are legally binding.\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-30 03:44:51'
- author:
    name: VectorM
    picture: 115671
  body: ">Did I \u201Cf\u201D say I want to rip off the typographer\r\n\r\n>Yes...\r\n\r\nNO
    I DID NOT. I Said the client and the know-it-all programmer want to do that and
    that I oppose to doing this as it is totally unacceptable for me.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n>\u201Ca
    big plus would be if I could see if software laws overwrite ANYTHING set by the
    foundries.\u201D\r\n\r\n>You\u2019re specifically looking for a loop hole - not
    links that support the position that EULAs are legally binding.\r\n\r\nExactly.
    These people are trying to find loopholes everywhere to argue in favour of pirating
    fonts.  Not me.\r\n\r\nThis is why I came here to find out what some professionals
    and typographers that frequent this site can say. To see what my fellow posters
    could suggest since actual type designers post in here."
  created: '2009-03-30 03:49:03'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Your company accepted a EULA, paid a type designer some money to licenses
    some fonts. Now \"these people\" say the EULA you accepted is worthless and you
    are free to do anything you like with the fonts. Surely it's up to \"these people\"
    to come up with links to support this, and for your attorney to decide if, under
    Canadian law, your company wants to take on the risk associated ignoring the EULA
    terms. \r\n\r\nSorry that you\u2019re taking offense, but your posts so far have
    indicated that you're doing their work for them.  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-30 03:55:26'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "First, if you want legal advice, HIRE A LAWYER. Do you know what smart people
    call guys who get their legal advice from the internet? Losers. Because when we
    end up in court with you, you lose, because we have the sense to hire a lawyer.
    At least pick up the Graphic Artists Guild Pricing and Ethical Guidelines. If
    you don\u2019t learn to stop being lazy and thoughtless about legal issues now
    it\u2019s going to cost you a lot of money one day.\r\n\r\nSecond you should put
    your font licensing terms in the contract and have it worked out BEFORE the client
    signs it. Third, if you have a repeat client who insists that the font license
    be transferred back to them at the end of the job, don\u2019t buy non-transferable
    font licenses when working with that client. If you really, really want to transfer
    the license, pester the designer to grant a non-transferable license. "
  created: '2009-03-30 05:17:07'
- author:
    name: VectorM
    picture: 115671
  body: Thanks for nothing.
  created: '2009-03-30 05:22:49'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "<em>Client here was billed for the project, and of course the font purchase
    was part of the whole cost. Now couple of weeks later, they want that font because
    they said they paid for it.</em>\r\n\r\nI for one, being a simpleton, would think
    that the font licence now belongs to the client, not to the studio (i.e. the studio
    purchased the font on behalf of the client). The client then should ensure that
    their usage is in accordance with the original licence, or upgrade it as needed.
    The studio would not be allowed to keep a copy of the font for their own use.
    The client however could allow the studio to use the font for their own jobs.\r\n\r\nIn
    other words, you cannot have your cake and eat it too."
  created: '2009-03-30 05:27:22'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: nvmd
  created: '2009-03-30 08:06:08'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: ">   Client here was billed for the project, and of course \r\n>   the font
    purchase was part of the whole cost.\r\n\r\ndid you bill them _specifically_ for
    the font?  if so, \r\ni'd say that they bought it, so they own it, not you.\r\n\r\nand
    of course they will want the font, because they\r\nmight need to change something
    in what you did...\r\n\r\nso give 'em the font, and erase it from your machine.\r\nwhat
    they do with it will then be of no concern to you.\r\n\r\neven if you didn't bill
    them for the font _specifically_,\r\nhanding it over is the easiest way to extricate
    yourself\r\nfrom a situation which has already become unpleasant.\r\n\r\nso use
    your head.\r\n\r\nand if they want you to do any work for them again,\r\ntell
    them your overhead cost will require a purchase\r\nof a font in _your_ name, which
    _you_ will then own.\r\nif they say that you can use _their_ copy of the font,\r\nsay
    you don't roll that way, and don't want to start...\r\n\r\nbetter yet, turn down
    the job.  unpleasant clients have\r\na nasty habit of repeating their unpleasantness
    later...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-30 08:28:52'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>did you bill them _specifically_ for the font? if so,\r\ni\u2019d say
    that they bought it, so they own it, not you.</cite>\r\n\r\nOne doesn't BUY a
    font. A font (or any other software) is LICENSED. Anyone who wants to use it needs
    to have a single license. So the fonts cannot be given to the client, even if
    they were charged for it. If the clients want to use it, they need to purchase
    their own license. \r\n\r\nOr if the font foundry would allow it: A transfer of
    the license from the studio to the client might be possible. But even this needs
    some written statement from the foundry. One cannot just give the fonts away like
    a book or something ...\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-30 08:41:57'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "<em>A transfer of the license from the studio to the client might be possible.
    But even this needs some written statement from the foundry.</em>\r\n\r\nAbsolutely.
    Perhaps this is what the above-mentioned \"programmers\" meant?"
  created: '2009-03-30 08:56:47'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: ">   One doesn\u2019t BUY a font. A font (or any other software) is LICENSED.
    \r\n\r\noh please.  get off the semantics.  they don't help.\r\n\r\ni'm telling
    vectorm the client paid for the license...\r\nso vectorm should hand over the
    font to the client.\r\n\r\nif he was gonna bill the client for the font (license),\r\nhe
    should've bought it in their name to begin with.\r\n(which is why concern with
    \"transfer\" is misplaced.)\r\n\r\nit seems he wants to bill them for the font
    (license),\r\nand then keep it himself.  it's no wonder, then, that\r\nthe client
    is now calling bullcrap on the whole thing.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-30 09:55:11'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "why doesn't the system eliminate duplicate posts?\r\ni mean, seriously, it
    can't be hard to detect them...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-30 09:56:14'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>oh please. get off the semantics. they don\u2019t help.</cite>\r\n\r\nSure
    they help. The difference between buying and licensing is the core of the VectorM's
    question. \r\n\r\n<cite>i\u2019m telling vectorm the client paid for the license...\r\nso
    vectorm should hand over the font to the client.</cite>\r\n\r\nAgain: it doesn't
    matter who paid for the fonts. What matters is who is has a license to install
    and use the fonts. \r\n\r\n<cite>if he was gonna bill the client for the font
    (license),\r\nhe should\u2019ve bought it in their name to begin with.</cite>\r\n\r\nNo,
    if they would license the font in the client's name, the studio would have no
    license to use the fonts for the design work in the first place. \r\nThey client
    has to account for all the costs associated with the project, but that doesn't
    mean they \"own\" any of the tools (hard- or software) that were used to fulfill
    the project. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-30 11:16:24'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "<em>why doesn\u2019t the system eliminate duplicate posts?</em>\r\n\r\nOh,
    it's the system's fault. Does the lift come down faster for you when you push
    the button twice?"
  created: '2009-03-30 11:47:55'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "i'm only clicking the button once.\r\n\r\nbut even if i clicked the button
    83 times, is there any reason\r\nwhy it should post the exact same message more
    than once?\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-30 20:45:40'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Experiment '
  created: '2009-03-30 21:07:15'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Experiment '
  created: '2009-03-30 21:07:16'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Experiment '
  created: '2009-03-30 21:07:16'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Experiment '
  created: '2009-03-30 21:07:17'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Experiment '
  created: '2009-03-30 21:07:18'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Experiment '
  created: '2009-03-30 21:07:18'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Experiment '
  created: '2009-03-30 21:07:18'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Experiment '
  created: '2009-03-30 21:07:18'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: ">   The difference between buying and licensing \r\n>   is the core of the
    VectorM\u2019s question.\r\n\r\nthere's absolutely no difference between the two\r\nthat
    is of relevance to any aspect of this question.\r\n\r\nnot in the mind of this
    non-lawyer, anyway...\r\n\r\n\r\n>   Again: it doesn\u2019t matter who paid for
    the fonts. \r\n>   What matters is who is has a license \r\n>   to install and
    use the fonts.\r\n\r\nvectorm's client paid for the font, so the license\r\nto
    install and use the font belongs to that client.\r\n\r\nthe client let vectorm
    install and use the font to do\r\nwork for them, and now that he's done, he should\r\nerase
    that font from his machine.  and the client\r\nshould be given the font they have
    paid to license,\r\nsince it appears that they do not have it presently.\r\n\r\nif
    vectorm thought the client would pay for the font,\r\nbut vectorm would get to
    have the license in his name,\r\nthen i'd say he is the one who is badly mistaken
    here...\r\n\r\nif vectorm hadn't billed the client specifically for the font,\r\nbut
    rather bought it using money from his own company,\r\nand bundled the cost into
    his overall billing for the project\r\n(in exactly the same way that he bundles
    the cost of his rent\r\nand his computers and all his other overhead), then fine,\r\nthe
    license belongs to _him_ and not to the client, and he\r\nhas every right to explain
    this in great detail to the client.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   No, if they would license the
    font in the client\u2019s name, \r\n>   the studio would have no license to use
    the fonts \r\n>   for the design work in the first place.\r\n\r\nif font-designers
    want to try to enforce such silliness,\r\ngood luck...  but that can only erode
    the willingness of\r\nyour customers to actually do what's expected of them,\r\nwhich
    will cause you even more problems down the line.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-30 21:07:19'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Experiment '
  created: '2009-03-30 21:07:19'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Experiment '
  created: '2009-03-30 21:07:19'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Experiment '
  created: '2009-03-30 21:07:20'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Experiment '
  created: '2009-03-30 21:07:20'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Experiment '
  created: '2009-03-30 21:07:20'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Experiment '
  created: '2009-03-30 21:07:21'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Experiment '
  created: '2009-03-30 21:07:21'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Experiment '
  created: '2009-03-30 21:07:21'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Experiment '
  created: '2009-03-30 21:07:23'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Experiment '
  created: '2009-03-30 21:07:23'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Experiment '
  created: '2009-03-30 21:07:24'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Experiment '
  created: '2009-03-30 21:07:24'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Experiment '
  created: '2009-03-30 21:07:24'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Experiment '
  created: '2009-03-30 21:07:24'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Ooops! :-P
  created: '2009-03-30 21:08:11'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "if you were going for 83, you fell short...        :+)\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-30 21:10:18'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I lost count so gave up early - I think every click generated a post though...
    and hey I'm top of the list too!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/clickclickclick_6367.JPG]\r\n\r\nBut
    somehow 83 total for the week!"
  created: '2009-03-30 21:14:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Oh mighty sword-wielding Si, cheat route to Top Typophile.\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-30 21:16:04'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "sii said:\r\n>   But somehow 83 total for the week!\r\n\r\ntouche.  i stand
    corrected...           ;+)\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-30 21:42:45'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "Listen to these guys buddy their pros(most not all). \r\nDo you win a prize
    for the most post?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design\r\nNo man is
    an island unto himself_John Donne\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-30 23:02:05'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "<em>i stand corrected</em>\r\n\r\nSurely, that must be a first. Do you want
    to reconsider? Come on, blame someone else."
  created: '2009-03-30 23:04:48'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "paragraph, a.k.a. jan schmoeger, is it really the case that\r\ndumping on
    me at every opportunity is the best way for\r\nyou to be spending your time?  i
    mean, _seriously_, is it?\r\n\r\nbecause, you know, if it _is_, then i can take
    the heat, i can.\r\ni just need to know that it's making the world a better place,\r\nthat
    otherwise you would be doing something less productive.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-31 01:13:18'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: I only dump when deserved. And you deserve, more than I can dish out on my
    own. You offended and patronised almost everyone here in your first week, then
    instead of taking it easy for a while, you now pronounce on every other topic.
    You invade other people's threads, you declare them solved. You, Bowerbird (What's
    your real name BTW? I see you know mine ...) are a pest, IMNSHO.
  created: '2009-03-31 05:18:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'Bowerbird, perhaps if you weren''t hiding behind aliases, perhaps if your
    posts were shorter and without typographic affectation, perhaps if you were less
    authoritative on matters you don''t know much about, perhaps then this small corner
    of the world would be a bit more welcoming. '
  created: '2009-03-31 05:29:54'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "like i said, if this is the best thing you guys could be doing\r\nat the
    present time, then feel free to fire away.  i can take it.      :+)\r\n\r\ni can
    also dish it out.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\np.s.  i'm not \"hiding\" behind some
    \"alias\".  bowerbird is my\r\npoetry name, has been since 1987, and that's what
    i go by.\r\nyou can find web posts of mine going back to 1995 or 1996,\r\nall
    under the same name and with the very same formatting.\r\nand i've had the same
    e-mail address for all of those years...\r\ni wonder how many of you can say the
    same thing?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-31 07:14:30'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>if vectorm hadn\u2019t billed the client specifically for the font,\r\nbut
    rather bought it using money from his own company,\r\nand bundled the cost into
    his overall billing for the project\r\n(in exactly the same way that he bundles
    the cost of his rent\r\nand his computers and all his other overhead), then fine,\r\nthe
    license belongs to _him_ and not to the client, and he\r\nhas every right to explain
    this in great detail to the client.</cite>\r\n\r\n\r\nI do understand your logic
    behind this, but it is still plain wrong. And this is no silly idea of type foundries
    - this is how every license(!) whatsoever works. It is a contract between a grantor
    of a license and the licensee (->user). Whether or not the price of this license
    appears on the bill of the studio to the client, doesn't affect the license agreement
    in any way. "
  created: '2009-03-31 08:25:10'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "ralf said:\r\n>   I do understand your logic behind this, but it is still
    plain wrong. \r\n\r\nok, first, i'm glad you understand my logic.  it's the logic
    of the layman.\r\n\r\nand no matter how type foundries write their licenses, that
    logic will\r\ncontinue to be the logic of the layman.  and if you tell them it's
    wrong,\r\nthey will ignore you.  and it's dangerous for you to set that precedent.\r\n\r\ni'm
    not trying to _justify_ their behavior.  just telling you it's _inevitable_.\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  It is a contract between a grantor of a license and the licensee (->user).\r\n\r\nand
    the client in this situation believes that _they_ are \"the licensee\"...\r\nheck,
    they paid for the font, so why would they _not_ be \"the licensee\"?\r\n\r\nthe
    fact (if it is a fact, and let's keep in mind vectorm hasn't verified it)\r\nthat
    vectorm put _his_ name on the license rather than _their_ name\r\n-- and then
    had the gall to actually bill 'em specifically for the font --\r\nmeans that vectorm
    was (in their opinion) pulling a fast one on them.\r\n\r\nso their beef is not
    (necessarily) with the font designer, or even the\r\nlicense per se, but with
    vectorm and their opinion of what he's doing.\r\n\r\nif they had installed the
    font on one of the computers in their shop,\r\nyou'd have no problem with it.
    \ instead they put it on the machine of\r\na person who was doing design work
    for them.  what's the difference?\r\n(this is not a rhetorical question.  if there
    is a difference, what is it?)\r\n\r\ni'm perfectly willing to admit that i may
    have everything wrong.\r\n\r\nso enlighten me.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-31 08:47:29'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "<em>i\u2019m not \u201Chiding\u201D behind some \u201Calias\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nYep,
    your real name is bowerbird intelligentleman.\r\nA little bit like the old gag
    about the Holy Roman Empire.\r\nNot really intelli, and definitively not gentleman."
  created: '2009-03-31 09:28:27'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>and the client in this situation believes that _they_ are \u201Cthe
    licensee\u201D...\r\nheck, they paid for the font, so why would they _not_ be
    \u201Cthe licensee\u201D?</cite>\r\n\r\nThey didn't pay for the font, they paid
    for the design work, which required a font license to be bought in order to be
    fulfilled. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>the fact that vectorm put _his_ name on the license
    rather than _their_ name ...\r\n </cite>\r\n\r\nThis is how thousands of licenses
    are purchased every day and exactly the way how it should be. Again: The billing
    is a totally different matter. And I don't think there is an easy answer to the
    question whether or not a studio should bill a font license to the client. It
    depends. We usually wouldn't charge for standard fonts, which we can use for many
    clients. These costs are devided between all our clients like the costs for hardware,
    rent and so on. \r\nIf the font are somewhat special we usually include it in
    the bill but rather disguise it somewhere (to avoid such discussions about \"buying
    fonts\"). \r\nIf the client requires a very special or expensive font, which will
    only be used for this client, we would put it in the bill, and explain to him
    how licensing software works. So far they we didn't have problems with that. It's
    not that difficult to understand how licensing works ...\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-31 10:24:54'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "ralf said:\r\n>   They didn\u2019t pay for the font, they paid for the design
    work, \r\n>   which required a font license to be bought in order to be fulfilled.\r\n\r\nfrom
    the original post:\r\n>   For one client we actually stated that the purchase
    of a single weight \r\n>   would be necessary since we were going after something
    extremely unique. \r\n>   Client here was billed for the project, and of course
    the font purchase was \r\n>   part of the whole cost. Now couple of weeks later,
    they want that font \r\n>   because they said they paid for it. They say that
    they shouldn\u2019t pay for \r\n>   a font that we would end up using for a future
    clients some time.\r\n\r\nthe way i read it, i agree with the client.  and if
    you tell me that the \"license\"\r\nsays differently, i'd chalk it up to another
    \"license\" that rips off the consumer.\r\nwe're getting used to those.  we see
    'em all the time.  and ignore 'em just fine.\r\nyou know, napster wouldn't have
    been _nearly_ as tragic to the music industry\r\nif consumers hadn't felt the
    record labels had been ripping them off for years,\r\ncharging far too much for
    albums with a couple \"killers\" and all the rest \"fillers\".\r\nso when those
    music fans had a chance to return the \"favor\", they did, in spades.\r\nthey
    \"ripped off\" the labels, and felt _justified_, because _fairness_ was restored.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nralf
    said:\r\n>   If the font are somewhat special we usually include it in the bill
    but rather \r\n>   disguise it somewhere (to avoid such discussions about \u201Cbuying
    fonts\u201D).\r\n\r\nso it seems to me you're being dishonest with your clients
    just like vectorm.\r\nand my best guess is that it would seem that way to vectorm's
    clients as well.\r\nand your clients too, if the truth were not \"disguised\",
    and discussion averted.\r\n\r\ni'm sorry if that offends you...  but that's what
    i truly honestly actually think...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-31 10:59:26'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>so it seems to me you\u2019re being dishonest with your clients just
    like vectorm.</cite>\r\n\r\nNo, I am not. I have a legal license (in my studio's
    name) which I need to have in order to install and use the font. There is no other
    way to do it. That's how it works  - ask any software vendor, read any software
    license or ask any lawyer. They will all tell you the same. I did my best to explain
    it as simple as I can. If you don't get it by now, you just don't want to get
    it. "
  created: '2009-03-31 11:20:11'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "Ralf, in such situations, are you offering this as the only alternative?
    Do you explain up front to the client that the font license will not be their
    property? We have no way of knowing if it was explained to this client. Informed
    consent requires the that both parties are informed. Fooling them or treating
    them like idiots isn't really helpful. Padding a bill to cover the cost of a font
    is fooling them.\r\n\r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n\r\n[[http://www.thefontry.com|<em>...from
    the Fontry </em>]]"
  created: '2009-03-31 15:33:06'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I'll just note that there are two key differences between transferring a
    license and transferring ownership of something.\r\n\r\n- the license may have
    restrictions on, or procedures for, transferring\r\n- the final recipient of the
    license needs to agree to the license terms as well\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-03-31 16:21:06'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"you can find web posts of mine going back to 1995 or 1996,\r\n...with the
    very same formatting.\"\r\n\r\nOh good grief."
  created: '2009-03-31 16:50:17'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Fonts are software. You don't line-item those as expenses are a per job basis,
    do you? I don't.\r\n\r\nFor campaigns where the client will be wanting to use
    the typeface themselves, I've purchased two licenses and/or simply have them purchase
    their own license on their own. "
  created: '2009-03-31 16:52:24'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Fonts are software. You don\u2019t line-item those as expenses are a per
    job basis, do you? I don\u2019t.\r\n\r\nAgree - if agencies line-itemed every
    expense on every design project the client would freak - \"why am I paying someone
    to remove the red M&M's? Why am I paying for the bosses hookers and cocaine!?\"
    Good grief! \r\n"
  created: '2009-03-31 17:42:41'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "In the sign business, margins aren't as large as other graphics fields. I
    can't justify purchasing an expensive font that is only going to be used for one
    client's project. Unless the project is very large, I can't pad the cost to cover
    the expense of a font. Once a job is quoted, if you run into a font issue in which
    you need to make an expensive purchase, it has to be justified to the client at
    some point, preferably before the purchase is made. Otherwise, you eat the cost
    which may be most of the profit for the job. \r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n\r\n[[http://www.thefontry.com|<em>...from
    the Fontry </em>]]"
  created: '2009-03-31 18:54:17'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "ralf said:\r\n>   No, I am not. I have a legal license (in my studio\u2019s
    name) \r\n>   which I need to have in order to install and use the font. \r\n\r\nso,
    are you telling me that vectorm could not \"install and use\"\r\na font that was
    _legally_licensed_ in the name of his client to\r\ndo work for that client?  again,
    this is not a rhetorical question.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   There is no other way to do
    it.\r\n\r\noh, there is most definitely another way to do it, or we\r\nwouldn't
    even be having this conversation.  the thing is,\r\nthe \"other way\" might or
    might not be \"legal\", according to\r\na license to which people might or might
    not pay attention.\r\n\r\nlicenses rarely include language precluding the impossible.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-31 19:08:18'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "@bowerbird\r\n\r\n\r\nDude, I have to agree with the rest of my comrades
    here.\r\n  \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design\r\nNo man is an island unto
    himself_John Donne\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-31 20:24:02'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "In the old days one would bill the client for the cost of typesetting, for
    the paper you\u2018d use for paste up, for the postage and packaging needed the
    send the lay outs to the printer, etc. Sundries would be included in the hourly
    rates.\r\n\r\nIn these days the client pays for the software you use and all other
    costs of doing business. Be it in the form of a surcharge on your hourly rate
    (more convenient), or on a per item base.\r\n\r\nIf I client wants files (including
    fonts), he pays extra (a lot extra, if I can get it) for receiving these. If I
    think the fonts I bought for a project will be needed again in future, but the
    client wants the fonts too, I will buy another license and transfer that to the
    client, billing the client for the license and the time I spent arranging everything.
    Or I tell the client that it\u2018s cheaper to buy a license all by himself (a
    URL may be provided by me, as a courtesy).\r\n\r\nWe ARE in a service industry,
    with quite clearly defined boundaries of what these services include. The service
    provided is a product according to the original request, not a collection of tools.\r\n\r\n.
    . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-03-31 20:31:08'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "and i have to agree with the rest of my comrades out here.\r\nwhich is precisely
    why i brought up the napster reference...\r\n\r\ni note that my most recent question
    remains unanswered.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-31 20:32:08'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "bowerbird: no, you legally can't install and use software that you didn't
    license. \r\n\r\nIf your client purchased the software and wants you to use it,
    they'd have to transfer the license to you (software vendor willing) and uninstall
    from their machines."
  created: '2009-03-31 20:53:53'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: RTFL
  created: '2009-03-31 21:01:46'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: ">   bowerbird: no, you legally can\u2019t install \r\n>   and use software
    that you didn\u2019t license.\r\n>\r\n>   If your client purchased the software
    and \r\n>   wants you to use it, they\u2019d have to transfer\r\n>   the license
    to you (software vendor willing) \r\n>   and uninstall from their machines.\r\n\r\nok,
    fine.  now that we have settled that, let me\r\nwish you the best of luck enforcing
    that license.\r\n\r\noh, and if you need references for some lawyers,\r\ni'm sure
    the r.i.a.a. will be happy to give you some.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-31 21:29:38'
- author:
    name: microspective
    picture: 111866
  body: "One of the best things about Typophile is... well, the exact antithesis of
    everything above.\r\n\r\nI can't believe how disrespectful this thread has been
    between members of Typophile. Before jumping to conclusions that a member is advocating
    piracy because of a licensing question (or any other inquiry for that matter),
    read the post's content carefully and ensure that you are interpreting it correctly,
    and consider if English is even their first language. This alone can force a misinterpretation
    of an innocent question.\r\n\r\nDon't forget we have unregistered visitors who
    come to Typophile to learn about typography and the stuff associated with it,
    such as the originally posted topic here. The tangents  in this thread (this one
    included) are not characteristic of our community. Take that kind of crap elsewhere."
  created: '2009-03-31 21:41:07'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I can\u2019t believe how disrespectful this thread has been between members
    of Typophile. \r\n\r\nWell if you re-read the thread I assumed goodwill until
    the original poster pushed on the issue of looking for a legal basis that would
    allow his company to ignore EULA terms they agreed to. I\u2019m sorry he got upset
    and left, but my guess is that he came to the realization that he was indeed doing
    someone else\u2019s dirty work for them. "
  created: '2009-03-31 21:54:52'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">and consider if English is even their first language. \r\n\r\nEd from Vancouver?
    I suppose its possible. \r\n\r\n>Don\u2019t forget we have unregistered visitors
    who come to Typophile to learn about typography and the stuff associated with
    it, such as the originally posted topic here\r\n\r\nThat was exactly why I jumped
    on this thread. If you look at the myriad of similar questions that have come
    up in the past, sooner or later some Perry Mason wan-a-be will come out of the
    woodwork, with some legal gobbledygook that \"proves\" EULAs are worthless and
    that all fonts are public domain. I think it\u2019s important to call BS on that
    early and often for the sake of the lurkers.\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-31 22:24:19'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"ok, fine. now that we have settled that, let me\r\nwish you the best of
    luck enforcing that license.\"\r\n\r\nAre you just trolling? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-31 22:34:48'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "aluminum said:\r\n>   Are you just trolling?\r\n\r\noh good grief.\r\n\r\nif
    i was, you've fallen for it big-time, haven't you?\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\ni did my
    best to explain it as simple as i can. if you\r\ndon\u2019t get it by now, you
    just don\u2019t want to get it...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-31 23:06:18'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"i did my best to explain it as simple as i can. if you\r\ndon\u2019t get
    it by now, you just don\u2019t want to get it...\"\r\n\r\nI'm not sure what you
    think we don't 'get'. You asked a question, got the answer, and are now arguing
    with an imaginary opponent.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-31 23:13:30'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "then let me try and make it even _more_ simple:\r\n\r\nthe real world chuckles
    at the license restrictions.\r\n\r\nnot me, because i don't buy fonts, or license
    them.\r\nso your attempts to personalize the issue just fizzle.\r\n\r\nbut the
    world at large?  they just laugh at your license.\r\nbecause they know there's
    no way you can enforce it...\r\n\r\nso if you want _compliance_, if you want your
    customers\r\nto be on your side, you'll find ways to be more reasonable.\r\n\r\notherwise,
    it is _you_ who is \"arguing\" with an \"opponent\",\r\nand that \"opponent\"
    is your customer out in the real world,\r\nand i can't see any way possible that
    you win that argument.\r\n\r\nso if you insist on legal fiction, you'll go the
    way of the r.i.a.a.\r\n\r\nis that simple enough?\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-01 00:02:23'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'You seem to think I''m disagreeing with you. Whatever. Well, have fun trolling.  '
  created: '2009-04-01 03:29:43'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "<cite>so, are you telling me that vectorm could not \u201Cinstall and use\u201D\r\na
    font that was _legally_licensed_ in the name of his client to\r\ndo work for that
    client? again, this is not a rhetorical question.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt depends on
    the license. It's as simple as that. If you're asking if vectorm could make a
    copy for use on his own computer, most font licenses would not allow that unless
    vectorm were an employee, not a freelancer. Or he can license the font up front
    and later transfer the license (most font EULAs seem to allow this, though not
    all).\r\n\r\nIt's my understanding that in the USA, a EULA that is agreed to by
    the licensor is legally binding, as long as the terms are not \"unconscionable\"
    (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unconscionable)  and do not require illegal actions.
    They *can* restrict people from doing things that they would be legally allowed
    to do if they didn't agree to the license. Of course, I'm not a lawyer, and like
    anybody who has had way too many dealings with the corporate world, I do recommend
    consulting a lawyer for legal advice.\r\n\r\nIf people care, they can choose fonts
    based in part on the licensing terms. Interestingly, if users ignore the licensing
    terms anyway, there isn't much point in font vendors trying to make their license
    terms more appealing, is there?\r\n\r\nIMO, comparing this to the RIAA is more
    than a little misleading. Although there are plenty of other font use cases, it
    seems here we're talking specifically about people who are <strong>making money</strong>
    from their use of the fonts. Not personal use at all.\r\n\r\nIf I were creating
    a font license myself (a situation I foresee within the next couple of years),
    I would certainly *consider* having a clause to allow usage-by-contractors and
    usage-by-output-providers, as long as everyone with simultaneous access was licensed.
    So you could let a contractor or output provider use the font, as long as you
    didn't exceed the number of simultaneous licensed users, and they did not keep
    a copy of the font when the work was done.\r\n\r\nBut then again, while I lean
    towards liberalism as far as font license terms for my own fonts, I strongly support
    other creators' rights to set license terms they are comfortable with. I think
    they *ought* to set license terms their users can live with, too, but I don't
    think they have a moral obligation to do so, because any customer who actually
    cares about following the terms of their EULA has plenty of choices out there.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-04-01 06:37:23'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: I think, in this case, you both need a license. You need one to be able to
    use it for their work (in <em>your</em> name, even if they paid for it). If they
    want one for later use, they need to buy their own license (in <em>their</em>
    name).
  created: '2009-04-01 14:47:04'
- author:
    name: johnson
    picture: 113489
  body: As I understand the issue the name Helvetica is registered and protected under
    UK EU and US copyright and trademark law. The vector software is not, therefore
    you can use Ariel which is not protected and freely available, It is the name
    that is protected not the vector
  created: '2009-04-01 15:55:31'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">therefore you can use Ariel [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ariel_detergent_logo_5387.png]\r\n\r\nPS
    your understanding is wrong. Sorry. :-(\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-01 16:02:41'
- author:
    name: johnson
    picture: 113489
  body: "Sii\r\n\r\nI am actually correct! I am associated with a Trade Mark Attorney
    and the Mark held by Unilever is protected in their environment. This is not the
    case with Ariel as a description of a font. Unilever may send a 'Cease and Desist'
    letter, but the case would not stand in court. That said, Helvetica as a mark
    is protected but the software as a vector is not. A check with relevant government
    Trade Mark registration would identify the 'owner' and limitation regarding the
    mark"
  created: '2009-04-01 18:58:43'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"but the software as a vector is not\"\r\n\r\nAt least in the US, that is
    an incorrect statement. "
  created: '2009-04-01 19:08:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I am associated with a Trade Mark Attorney</em>\r\n\r\nFriends on Facebook?"
  created: '2009-04-01 19:30:44'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I am actually correct! \r\n\r\nFAIL! The font is called Arial, and it's
    a Monotype trademark, and according to their attorney, its a very strong one partly
    because of the spelling. Arial is protected, even though it is widely distributed.\r\n\r\n>I
    am associated with a Trade Mark Attorney \r\n\r\nSadly on typophile that's the
    best we can hope for. People who are willing to play attorney based on association.
    That's fine, it\u2019s fun to play, but as microspective noted there are people
    who assume we collectively know what we're talking about when it comes to IP law.\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-01 19:42:29'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: If anyone wishes to confirm for themselves by searching the [[http://www.uspto.gov/web/trademarks/workflow/start.htm|USPTO]]
    TESS database, the specific Arial trademark in question will be found under serial
    number 75554357, registration number 2270853.
  created: '2009-04-01 21:36:16'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>but the software as a vector is not</em>\r\n\r\nI don't know where
    you are, but as said, in the US that statement isn't true. \r\nAnd as far as I
    know it isn't correct for where I live either (The Netherlands)."
  created: '2009-04-02 02:15:29'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "<em>sooner or later some Perry Mason wan-a-be will come out of the woodwork</em>\r\n\r\nRight
    on cue. However, Ariel can have a quiet word with Michael, and he knows how to
    deal with people who say that fonts are not protected.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/michael_6513.png]"
  created: '2009-04-02 02:40:38'
- author:
    name: Pattie P
    picture: 113107
  body: 'This is an interesting issue. It used to be and I believe still is, standard
    to package fonts with a file when sent to the printer. It seems that things have
    gotten more complicated. I don''t think I am unique in that I have thousands of
    fonts purchased over 20 years and I can''t tell you what each font license says. '
  created: '2009-04-02 21:54:46'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">It used to be and I believe still is, standard to package fonts with a file
    when sent to the printer\r\n\r\nYes it's called PDF.\r\n\r\n>I don\u2019t think
    I am unique in that I have thousands of fonts purchased over 20 years and I can\u2019t
    tell you what each font license says.\r\n\r\nFortunately most licenses allow PDF
    font embedding at least for \"work-flow\" so the chances you're out of compliance
    are slim.  \r\n"
  created: '2009-04-02 22:12:51'
- author:
    name: Pattie P
    picture: 113107
  body: "Nope not PDF. Files sent with fonts. Handy as PDFs are they are only good
    if the printer doesn't need to edit the file. Mine do. I think it is standard
    for fonts to be sent with files to the printer. I work with printers all over
    the world and they all request the fonts. \r\n"
  created: '2009-04-02 23:53:06'
- author:
    name: bemerx25
    picture: 112539
  body: I don't like printers messing with my design work and I (or the client) will
    own whatever mistakes are in the PDF we provide the printer. That way no fonts
    are transferred and the spheres of responsibility (both of the artwork and printing
    production) are clearly delineated. Why do you allow printers to edit your work?
    You might as well have the printer do the whole process, the design and the printing!
  created: '2009-04-03 00:40:35'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>I don\u2019t like printers messing with my design work and I (or the
    client) will own whatever mistakes are in the PDF we provide the printer.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    agree. I haven't send an open file to a printer in years. I only use PDF, and
    all printers I've worked with so far prefer / demand PDF.\r\n\r\n> <em>Why do
    you allow printers to edit your work? You might as well have the printer do the
    whole process, the design and the printing!</em>\r\n\r\nThat's a silly remark,
    since before there was PDF (or before it became a standard) it was very normal
    to send the open files to the printer (xpress files)."
  created: '2009-04-03 00:58:32'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Handy as PDFs are they are only good if the printer doesn\u2019t need to
    edit the file. Mine do. \r\n\r\nMost font EULAs include a section on sharing with
    service bureaus and printers for those of you in still in the stone age. I know
    you've lost all your EULAs :-( but if I would be a printer I would be a bit scared
    of the XPress 2.0 file and 20 year old font."
  created: '2009-04-03 01:31:36'
- author:
    name: bemerx25
    picture: 112539
  body: "Quincunx - I know that. It was a bit hyperbolic - what I'm trying to emphasize
    is that for most modern printers there is no need to provide the \"source\" material
    - a PDF works just fine. But with Pattie's remark that they need the printers
    to edit the files...well that seems to pose the question of why not have the printer
    do the whole process? \r\n\r\nBut I guess I don't know enough about what Pattie's
    printing. Maybe it requires last minute changes before printing? I'd hate to know
    the costs (time, budget, resources) of that type of workflow..."
  created: '2009-04-03 02:52:47'
- author:
    name: Pattie P
    picture: 113107
  body: ">>Why do you allow printers to edit your work?<<\r\n\r\nI try to send finalized
    art but sometimes a last minute change is required. I have them do the change
    for speed. \r\n\r\n>>You might as well have the printer do the whole process,
    the design and the printing!<<\r\n\r\nThere is a big difference between editing
    type and designing a package.\r\n\r\n>>those of you in still in the stone age<<\r\n\r\nYeah,
    the last project I did was printed in Chili. They asked me to recreate the art
    in Freehand....can you believe that? I complained to my boss but he just said
    do what you have to do they are a 3rd world country, they are difficult to work
    with and they will not buy the software. You know what I said? I said, OK. Hey,
    I like what I do and I like my job. Unlike some of you, I don't run the show,
    I don't have clients, I work for a company. If refuse to allow the printers access
    to my working files, my boss will refuse to allow access to my working. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-03 04:33:47'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: You can't go back in time. I would say, in this instance, the font software
    should be transferred and call it a lesson learned. Next time itemize the fonts
    when you do the bill. This way you can also suggest to them that they license
    the fonts for there own work. OR, you itemize there own separate license in addition
    (but not itemized) to the fonts for the studio. Make sense?
  created: '2009-04-03 21:57:07'
- author:
    name: Pattie P
    picture: 113107
  body: "This is a good site to review.\r\n\r\n\r\nhttp://scripts.sil.org/cms/scripts/page.php?site_id=nrsi&item_id=UNESCO_Font_Lic\r\n\r\nI
    was looking around at some EULAs it seems more often than not sending to service
    bureaus is only allowed if the can prove they have a license for the font. Interestingly
    if you review instructions from service Beureaus they all say to include fonts
    with the files. \r\n\r\nI am going to start sending files sans font's with a duplicate
    outlined version. I will list the fonts and state that we do not send fonts due
    to licensing restrictions. Lets see how that goes!"
  created: '2009-04-03 22:20:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "One problem with sending fonts to the printer is that he may get the idea
    he can do other little jobs for your client, using the fonts you have paid to
    license, and cutting your company out of the loop.\r\n\r\nThese would be \"simple\"
    design-and-print jobs that he will convince your client not to use your design
    firm for, because you will charge to much. How is the printer able to undercut
    you? Not having to pay for the fonts helps.\r\n\r\nIt happened to me.\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-03 22:34:35'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">instructions from service Bureaus they all say to include fonts with the
    files. \r\n\r\nA. proving \"all\" service bureaus say this would be hard\r\nB.
    service bureaus are not printers\r\nC. there are no service bureaus any more\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2009-04-03 22:50:15'
- author:
    name: Pattie P
    picture: 113107
  body: ">instructions from service Bureaus they all say to include fonts with the
    files.\r\n\r\n>>A. proving \u201Call\u201D service bureaus say this would be hard<<\r\n\r\nTrue.
    I have to be careful phrasing things like that. For example, my husband doesn't
    like it when I say \"you always.... (fill in the blanks)\r\nI also have to say
    \"I think\" rather than \"I feel\" more\r\n\r\nWhen I look around on the internet
    at Printers web sites I have noticed, they often require fonts to be included
    with the document. \r\n\r\n>>B. service bureaus are not printers\r\nC. there are
    no service bureaus any more<<\r\n\r\nTrue and True that's the terminology I was
    seeing in the EULAs. I take it to mean pre-press department.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-04 03:08:12'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: They can require whatever they want, but if it is not allowed by the EULA,
    that doesn't matter. But to be honest, every pre-press department I've worked
    with so far has been working with a PDF-workflow. Even for last minute changes,
    they can just call me to make those changes and send a new PDF (which happens
    every now and then).
  created: '2009-04-04 15:06:07'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "Speaking as a person in the sign industry, I'd love it if every file/pdf
    from a designer was ready for fabrication. I wouldn't care what the fonts were.
    What I usually get is fonts not converted to outlines, designs with virtually
    no margin or space for bleeds, or worse - bitmaps. For some reason, designers
    do not understand that a CNC router can not do anything with a bitmap - even one
    embedded in a pdf or illustrator file. It's a boat anchor.  Most times, the designer
    is unavailable, can't get new art in time for us to meet our deadline, or has
    quoted such a high price to convert their photoshop files to vector art as to
    be prohibitive (not to me but to the client). What is left is a late night for
    me (and even with overtime, it isn't worth it). \r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n\r\n[[http://www.thefontry.com|<em>...from
    the Fontry </em>]]"
  created: '2009-04-04 17:53:54'
- author:
    name: Pattie P
    picture: 113107
  body: I think if most of your work is dne in the US you would be working with PDFs.
    Most of the work that I do is handled overseas so they aren't quite up to speed.
  created: '2009-04-05 00:31:46'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: In Australia, PDF workflow has been in widespread use for some years now,
    AFAIK. No service bureaus either.
  created: '2009-04-05 00:52:36'
- author:
    name: Pattie P
    picture: 113107
  body: "Also it depends on the type of work. Packaging is what I do. If they would
    give me everything I needed upfront (like a dyeline for starters) I could do it
    all.\r\n\r\nAustralia is great very modern up to date the quality of printing
    is top notch. \r\n\r\nChili has been a challenge.  We send email after email,
    we call and \"yes yes no problem\" than two weeks later it's, \"what is a dyeline?\"
    and..\"Oh yes no problem\" a week later they say \"we are still waiting on the
    art please send it\" and I say \"but I have no dyeline\"...they say, \"yes yes
    no problem.\" Finally I send them the files and tell them to size it or edit it
    as needed. Nothing happens until they have files and than they either send me
    the dyeline (at last) or adjust the art. Language is a barrier as well as suppliers
    who don't want me contacting the producers and the producers don't want me contacting
    their printers. "
  created: '2009-04-05 04:43:12'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Chili has been a challenge\r\n\r\nMaybe they are offended by the abbreviation
    of their name? It's  http://www.chilis.com/ \r\n"
  created: '2009-04-05 06:01:23'
- author:
    name: Pattie P
    picture: 113107
  body: I'm sure.
  created: '2009-04-05 16:11:05'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Si is making a joke. It's \"Chile,\" of course.\r\n\r\nNot that this in any
    way detracts from your frustrations in working with the particular folks in question.
    Wow!"
  created: '2009-04-05 20:07:11'
date: '2009-03-30 02:29:37'
node_type: forum
title: "FONTS | laws, copyright, distribution, etc\u2026"

---
