---
author:
  name: Nick Job
  picture: 110778
body: "I snapped this on Wilmslow railway station in Cheshire, UK recently.\r\n\r\nIs
  it wrong and if so why?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Wilmslow_4917.png]\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Pieter van Rosmalen
    picture: 109564
  body: "It\u2019s mirrored (left-right). The contrast has the wrong direction.\r\n\r\nPieter"
  created: '2009-03-30 11:34:23'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Hi Nick,\r\n\r\nit looks\r\na) like an upside-down \u2018M\u2019, because
    the outer diagonals usually are more inclined, in a \u2018W\u2019\r\nand\r\nb)
    mirrored, because the contrast axis is in opposition to the tradition of translation-based
    (broad nib pen) contrast, and also what other letters like the \u2018s\u2019 suggest.\r\nF"
  created: '2009-03-30 11:43:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "You're thinking with your nib, not your mind. Use your mind and tell me why
    it's wrong (without making any reference to tradition or pen-shape which are not
    good barometers of right and wrong).\r\n\r\nLet me ask a different question:\r\n\"Why,
    when we look at a globe, do we consider north to be at the top and south to be
    at the bottom?\""
  created: '2009-03-30 11:51:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: Florian, your (a) was a good point but I'm not really talking about cosmetics.
  created: '2009-03-30 11:52:23'
- author:
    name: bijuneyyan
    picture: 112823
  body: I'm wondering why no one's talking about that hanging "thing" of m ;)
  created: '2009-03-30 13:42:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: ">>>I\u2019m wondering why no one\u2019s talking about that hanging \u201Cthing\u201D
    of m ;)\r\n\r\nI was doing everything I could to ignore it."
  created: '2009-03-30 13:53:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "It's just wrong in so many ways. The client was probably convinced to commission
    a custom typeface by some 'designer' with the gift of the gab who persuaded them
    of its brilliance with his designer bullshit.\r\n\r\nTotal amateur hour.\r\n\r\n\r\nNick
    Cooke"
  created: '2009-03-30 14:22:50'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: It's a convention, based on pen nibs. Nothing more to it. If it looks wrong,
    it's because we are not used to seeing it that way. The globe thing is also just
    a convention.
  created: '2009-03-30 14:30:03'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: (I should add that one goes against convention at the risk of confusing or
    annoying others.)
  created: '2009-03-30 14:32:41'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...but I\u2019m not really talking about cosmetics.\"\r\n\r\nOh I see what
    you're saying, the type should be black, or, the same color as the background
    for this font to work?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-03-30 15:05:32'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "<cite>It\u2019s a convention, based on pen nibs. Nothing more to it. If it
    looks wrong, it\u2019s because we are not used to seeing it that way. The globe
    thing is also just a convention.</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm not sure about this. It's possible
    to hold the nib at a different angle right? Couldn't the standard nib angle be
    what people traditionally liked?\r\n\r\nA function of the variation in thickness
    is to imply direction based off of convention. So, it does look \"backwards\"
    to me. With the \"W\" and \"l\" repeated, my brain momentarily registered it as
    a single-word palindrome."
  created: '2009-03-30 17:25:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/caridee-photo-dumb-blonde-model-reading-book-upside-down_3991.jpg]\r\nThose
    wacky Wilmslowers!\r\n(The convention is \"upstroke thin, downstroke thick\".)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-30 17:35:24'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Carl, yes, of course you can rotate the nib. But it\u2019s not that easy
    to make upstrokes with the broad edge. That, plus the facts that Latin is written
    from left to right and that most of us are right-handed, lead to the familiar
    contrast."
  created: '2009-03-30 17:42:41'
- author:
    name: rubenDmarkes
  body: "I find that letters must show some inclination. They must tell you, in some
    way, in what direction your eye should go. When we \u201Crevert the contrast\u201D,
    as we say, thus going against convention, letters seem to tilt to the left, which
    \u201Csounds\u201D wrong; we know we read from left to right, but the letters
    are telling us otherwise. I've thought about things this way, too, and that's
    where I got. I now use this piece of information whenever I look at or draw any
    letter.\r\n\r\nI think that's the main thing that really seems wrong. The rest
    \u2013 different stroke widths, no serifs on top of the lc i or the bottom of
    the middle lc m leg, the lc e, the lc t, etc. \u2013 isn't what we'd consider
    a great, homogenous, coherent and (classicly or not) beautiful design, but it's
    not throwing the average reader off. The Uc \u201CW\u201D, though, I think might.
    The lc one, probably not so much."
  created: '2009-03-30 17:43:05'
- author:
    name: rubenDmarkes
  body: Oh, I forgot to mention that it has to do with not only the fact that we read
    left to right, but also downwards.
  created: '2009-03-30 17:45:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: That doesn't bother Wilmslowians, who are well versed in boustrophedon to
    boot.
  created: '2009-03-30 18:12:26'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "<cite>...it\u2019s not that easy to make upstrokes with the broad edge. That,
    plus the facts that Latin is written from left to right and that most of us are
    right-handed, lead to the familiar contrast.</cite>\r\n\r\nI'll buy that. Regardless
    of the cause, the effect on perception is powerful. It does <i>feel</i> upside
    down. "
  created: '2009-03-30 18:15:40'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"the effect on perception is powerful\"</em>\r\nI'm really beginning
    to wonder how much of <em>our</em> perception is \"learned\" through observation,
    and from convention. I mean, I agree that thing is painful to look at. But it
    would be priceless to get some reactions from total laymen, and see if it feels
    upside down, or odd in some way, to them too. Or not.\r\nSo, does anybody have
    any normal (non-type-obsessed) people around? :-)"
  created: '2009-03-30 18:29:17'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "<cite>Is it wrong and if so why?</cite>\r\n\r\nIt's wrong because someone
    has started out with a probably \"correct\" typeface and then managed to destroy
    it so bad by mirroring letters and snapping off serifs.\r\nSome peple shouldn't
    be allowed to use Illustrator... :)"
  created: '2009-03-30 18:32:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I don't have a problem with it, because the effect is considered, not inadvertent.\r\nProfessional,
    not vernacular.\r\nWhether it is an award-winning disengagement from convention
    is besides the point.\r\nThere's nothing wrong with the sentiment or principle
    at work, although one may quibble with the execution.\r\n\r\nWhatever, diehard
    typographic traditionalists were not included in the target market!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-30 18:41:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "Nick S: Why do 'diehards' insist on contrast being 'thin up fat down'?\r\n\r\nIs
    'thin up fat down' in the same bracket as the globe I mentioned at the start?
    \r\n\r\nNina: Why is it painful? Do you mean 'painful' or do you mean simply 'unusual'?
    Or does unusual actually cause you pain because you have to think about it? How
    long would you have to see it before you stopped thinking about it and you had
    finally become anaesthetised to it?\r\n\r\nGoran: You have put double quotes around
    the word \"correct\". Are you admitting by putting it in double quotes that there
    is actually no such thing as correct?\r\n\r\nCan the designer of this typeface
    be commended in any way or are you all going to hang, draw and quarter him/her
    simply because you didn't like the end product?\r\n\r\nBy the way, if you're enjoying
    this thread, you might also like <a href=\"http://typophile.com/cms/node/48843\">this
    one</a> which was all about handedness."
  created: '2009-03-30 19:56:25'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "Yes. I just wish I had put double quotes on \"wrong\" aswell.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-30 20:07:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It is not the anti-penlogic that bothers me. It is the awkward angles of
    the legs which leaves a huge space at bottom center and probably makes the A to
    W fit very clumsy looking. If you are going to go that way, go further and make
    the outer strokes much more to wards the upright and make the rest of the glyphs
    a system to fit. I know the M is often done in this way. It appears to work for
    the M for some because we are used to it but I think there may be more to it.
    The weight moves more to bottom both with the traditional M and W--is this visual
    gravitation? I don't know but the Romans did something that way for a reason.
    Perhaps using the V as center, who knows? My guess is that there is some basis
    beyond traditional habit. Flipping an M for a W can also possibly cause confusion
    between the two letters. With one with straighter sides, the confusion is minimized.\r\n\r\nI
    can only say that it looks awkward to me beyond the tradition. I think it makes
    itself look far too different than the rest of the glyphs to make sense as a family
    or even as a system. It make be more believable as a sans than a roman since roman
    faces evoke more a traditional expectation. I might like to see all the stroke
    weight and contrasts flipped to match to see if that helps.\r\n\r\nI might add
    that I don't mind someone trying this kind of solution in the least but I don't
    think this begins to work yet and could use more time and effort to push it closer
    to something that works without me having to say, \"WTF is that?\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-30 20:08:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Is \u2019thin up fat down\u2019 in the same bracket as the globe I mentioned
    at the start?</em>\r\n\r\nNo, because it derives from a practical constraint,
    not an arbitrary convention.\r\nHowever, it could be argued that people more often
    face North when making maps, so as not to get the sun in their eyes.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    the \"s\" is wrongly stressed, from the perspective of chirographic consistency;
    but it would read Wilmzlow if flipped. The designer didn't push the envelope<em>
    that</em> far."
  created: '2009-03-30 21:09:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: ">>>However, it could be argued that people more often face North when making
    maps, so as not to get the sun in their eyes.\r\n\r\nNot in the Southern hemisphere
    they don't. You're being northist/southist (don't know which)! Latitudist?"
  created: '2009-03-30 21:21:24'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Whew, I just read that entire thread you linked to, Nick. Took me a while.
    (Including Google time to find out if Wilmslow might be a left-handers' commune.)\r\n\r\n<em>\"Or
    does unusual actually cause you pain because you have to think about it?\"</em>\r\nHey,
    since when is thinking painful?\r\nMaybe I should have put \"painful\" in quotes.
    What I meant was it's uncomfortable; although at the same time I realized it's
    only really uncomfortable because it's against convention, or what I'm used to
    seeing. But I still couldn't help the effect: My eyes are clearly identifying
    that as a flipped \"M\", but it's pretending to be a \"W\"; and that \"flipping
    effect\" is pretty\u2026 startling."
  created: '2009-03-30 21:29:31'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "<em>I might like to see all the stroke weight and contrasts flipped to match
    to see if that helps.</em>\r\n\r\nAre there any typefaces out there with reverted
    contrast all over?"
  created: '2009-03-30 21:33:41'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: To me the W looks clunky because I can't see any purpose to the modifications
    or any unity with the other letters. It reads as an M (almost) and draws too much
    needless attention to itself. I'm left feeling like I don't understand the message.
  created: '2009-03-30 22:11:23'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Nick... my wife is mad that you posted that picture of her. That was a private
    shoot : )\r\n\r\nIn pen rendering the angle used to form the M, W, N  etc is shifted
    from 30 to 60 degrees to equalize weights in the formation of the letters.\r\n\r\nThe
    \"s\" is correct, the author just brought the serifs the way of the turn instead
    of incorporating vertical serifs, this version is out of sync with the rest of
    the letters, i.e. it is more brush than \"typographic.\"\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-03-30 22:18:28'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "This is wrong from the standpoint of convention. But that doesn't make it
    wrong from the standpoint of effectiveness (which I think is the point you want
    us to get, Nick). \r\n\r\nHowever, I don't think these modifications add anything
    positive to this particular design. Average Joe probably wouldn't notice anything
    unusual. It's like trying to be rebellious by putting a temporary tattoo on your
    shoulder and wearing long sleeves. There's no meaning or point to it.\r\n\r\nFor
    an example of unconventional glyphs that do add meaning see Chester's modification
    to Galaxie Polaris for the Alliance for Climate Protection (http://www.wecansolveit.org/).
    That is certainly an unconventional w, but it is, in a nutshell, the brand and
    the message. Which makes it effective. [edited last sentence because it made no
    sense!]"
  created: '2009-03-30 22:21:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Not in the Southern hemisphere they don\u2019t.</em>\r\n\r\nTrue, but
    the map makers were in the Northern."
  created: '2009-03-30 22:26:49'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "It's wrong because it's anti-systematic.\r\n\r\nThere is a graphic system
    expressed in the structure of the other letters, the W is not following the structural
    rules of the other letters so it stands out with ackwardness.\r\n\r\nIt also looks
    wrong because it goes against what we are accustumed to see, not mattering if
    we know anything about stroke modulation and contrast.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2009-03-30 23:38:55'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Great design. Nothing wrong with it \u2014 it generated 32 responses from
    a medley of professionals, eg in billable hours about\u2026 uh\u2026\r\n\r\n.
    . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-03-31 11:19:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: ">>>Great design. Nothing wrong with it \u2014 it generated 32 responses from
    a medley of professionals, eg in billable hours about\u2026 uh\u2026\r\n\r\nTell
    you what, if it helps, don't respond during office hours ;o)\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-31 11:46:40'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: ">>>True, but the map makers were in the Northern.\r\n\r\nAll Arabic maps
    were south oriented, and they were the original accurate maps that Europe acquired."
  created: '2009-03-31 16:53:19'
- author:
    name: microspective
    picture: 111866
  body: "Interesting... I visited the site on the billboard and it brought me to <a
    href=\"http://www.visitcheshire.com\">visitcheshire.com</a>. The minuscule \"v\"
    has the stroke contrast correct (according to convention). So does that mean that
    the font designer got it right and the \"graphique artistes\" took matters into
    their own hands with the \"W/w?\"\r\n\r\nI wanted to dig deeper, and nabbed a
    PDF (the embedded font is called \"ExclusivelyCheshire\") from the site. Turns
    out the \"W/w\" nastiness came from the font designer. Check these out. (compare
    the \"M\" and \"W.\" Not even a reversal and flip!)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/c1_3620.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/c2_4904.png]"
  created: '2009-03-31 16:58:01'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "So what's the point of this: Wilmslow ain't pretty, but it sure is different?\r\nThat's
    the vibe I'm getting.\r\n\r\nI think H\xE9ctor is spot on when he says it's \"wrong
    because it\u2019s anti-systematic\". I mean look at this, not even the weights
    of the letters have anything to do with one another, let alone proportions. \r\nAnd
    what happened to the rest of the \"r\" anyway?"
  created: '2009-03-31 17:20:54'
- author:
    name: acnapyx
    picture: 113394
  body: "Quite strange typedesign decisions from Access Adv. Look for example at this
    strange lowercase w from above mentioned PDFs:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cheshire_4793.jpg]\r\nObviously
    homebrew typeface, but if it succeeds in provoking so many comments, looks like
    the unknown designer has reached its goal... :)"
  created: '2009-03-31 17:31:43'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I think the Many Comments are due to the \"what really is wrong\" mystique
    that has been built up in this thread. If this face had shown up in the Critique
    section I think reactions would've been a bit different.\r\n\r\nDunno\u2026 I'll
    go out on a limb and say I think this is simply bad type design. \r\nMaybe it's
    wannabe Po-Mo, or supposed to be rebellious, undermining conventions or whatever,
    but in any case, I don't think it works. \r\n\r\nI will gladly stand corrected
    if you guys can convince me I'm wrong."
  created: '2009-03-31 17:36:03'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: Silly me, I thought the only thing wrong with it was that it was hideously
    ugly.
  created: '2009-03-31 18:06:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "That, too, JLT :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-03-31 18:21:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>All Arabic maps were south oriented, and they were the original accurate
    maps that Europe acquired.</em>\r\n\r\nI didn't know that. Bang goes my theory.\r\nAny
    other explanations?"
  created: '2009-03-31 18:32:36'
- author:
    name: litherland
    picture: 128152
  body: "<strong>Frode Frank:</strong> \"Are there any typefaces out there with reverted
    contrast all over?\"\r\n\r\nThat's an interesting question; do you mean something
    other than so-called <a href=\"http://oinoi.wordpress.com/2009/02/02/the-italian-monstrosity/\">Italian</a>
    display faces with their inside-out contrast?"
  created: '2009-03-31 18:33:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I used reversed contrast in <a href=\"http://www.shinntype.com/artefact.html\">Artefact</a>,
    in a deliberately inconsistent manner.\r\nAs it's a postmodern face, the purpose
    is to \"address the issue of...\"\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nI have considered reverse
    contrast versions of A, V, W, for contextual substitution in words such as LAWYER.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-31 18:45:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "This isn't too different, as a design strategy, than the variation of axis
    found in the Baroque letter.\r\nAs Bringhurst notes, the Baroque letter came about
    at a time when typographers began mixing roman and italic on the same line, so
    there was an awareness that stress didn't have to be in a consistent, \"pen held
    at a steady angle\" manner, and type designers experimented with that idea.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-31 19:12:34'
- author:
    name: theplatypus
    picture: 115609
  body: "I'm learning a lot from this post.  :)  I really want to dive deep into type.
    \ I wish there was a school of design specific to typography.  Nowadays I'm lucky
    to get 3 classes of it.\r\n\r\nMy observations is that it simply feels weak.  It
    feels like it fades into the rest of the word rather than being a statement or
    signification that the word has begun.\r\n\r\ndaniel"
  created: '2009-03-31 19:46:54'
- author:
    name: joehuerta
  body: There's nothing wrong, I can still read it.
  created: '2009-03-31 19:59:24'
- author:
    name: Nachos
    picture: 116245
  body: "The \"W\" feels quirky (for many of the reasons mentioned above), but seems
    to fit the rest of the lettering. Definitely not my favorite logo type but not
    wrong. \r\n\r\n@ daniel - The more I learn the more I realize how much there is
    to know. This discussion has taught me a great lesson on how to answer comments
    with questions(?)"
  created: '2009-03-31 21:23:59'
- author:
    name: mind_riot
  body: Hmm allot of interesting points that I think are inter-related. I'm a newbie
    to type design, I usually listen rather than talk here but it strikes me that
    what is wrong with this font and indeed is the basis of convention in large areas
    of design/aesthetics and from what i can see also relates to type, that being
    nature. Golden ratio, colour theory etc (you all know the list)  breaks down to
    either biological or instinctive values (such as blue being used for medicine
    bottles because there is nothing naturally blue that can be consumed without harm,
    it signifies a warning even to those who have no idea). This font fights how we
    read (as previously mentioned above), it fights how we write (again previously
    mentioned above) and the way we do those things derives from our physical nature.
    Without being able to strongly link terminology most of the conventions it goes
    against can be clearly drawn back to natural movements, natural rhythms, forms,
    relationships... not just in human beings but in everything that grows around
    us. I think this font strikes us as wrong because it goes against not only how
    we do things but the natural order around us, but it is still readable, so to
    the untrained eye it just sits uneasily in the back of the mind, something they
    might more easily recognize later. Indeed likely successful in some of its aims
    but not through beauty or grace which would have to contain natural harmony (in
    itself and the world around) or clear decisive moves that are discordant to make
    a obvious point (that would have to be highlighted at very least via consistency).
  created: '2009-03-31 21:34:33'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: " <em>so-called Italian display faces with their inside-out contrast</em>\r\n\r\nI
    quite like convention-challenging fonts. I never seriously used Antique Olive,
    but did a whole book in Incised. Was not responsible for selecting the typeface,
    but was pleasantly surprised how well it worked as a text font.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/incised_5893.png]"
  created: '2009-03-31 23:52:43'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "<cite>All Arabic maps were south oriented, and they were the original accurate
    maps that Europe acquired.</cite>\r\n\r\n... the winners also re-draw the maps.\r\n\r\n\r\nI
    agree with jlt, it's just hideously ugly.\r\n\r\nWith type, as with ao many thing
    in design, if it looks wrong, it's wrong.\r\nUntil it looks right. Then the guy's
    a genious - way ahead of his - or her time.\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2009-04-01 02:45:38'
- author:
    name: mattmatthew
  body: "I can't comment on the convention, or what the 'rules' are, really.\r\n\r\nBut
    it feels wrong. It took some looking at it, and here's what I've figured out:\r\n\r\n-
    The W starts with a thin stroke on the left, instead of a thick. I like the thick
    stroke; In the west we read left to right, so we need some kind of visual key
    to denote the start of a line, or a sentence. That's why we capitalize. Capitalization
    of the first letter at the start of a sentence gives us the cue that it's the
    beginning; Large to small. Likewise, starting with a thin stroke going to thick
    is a bit bizarre.\r\n\r\n- I'm also more used to W's where the two outer strokes
    have more of an incline (or at the very least, the same incline) as the two inside
    strokes. But I'm not sure that this in itself is the issue, but rather that the
    two contrasting angles are not only different, but just very slightly different.
    It looks wrong. Most of the time when you create difference in proportion, angle,
    or form, you exaggerate to make it seem intentional, purposeful. If you don't,
    it looks like a mistake or an oversight. For example, I don't think the W would
    look as wrong if the outer strokes were completely vertical, and the inner strokes,
    by contrast more inclined.\r\n\r\nIt goes without saying there's exceptions to
    every rule, but it helps to understand a letter's essence, or its guiding principles.
    This shows a lack of it."
  created: '2009-04-01 05:19:53'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "How does type like this get into public spaces at all?\r\nThis is a perfect
    example of the principle: \"I have Corel Draw, so now I'm a pro\"...\r\n___________\r\n<em>Robert
    Koritnik</em>"
  created: '2009-04-01 07:58:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "Frode: Surely this is all about familiarity, that's all. But still not sure
    why it looks so bad though (i.e. the black dobw above).\r\n\r\nIs there actually
    something sinister about the backward/left-handed approach? Or with enough usage
    would we get used to it in the end and the top dobw would then look wrong?\r\n\r\nIs
    there something about stress that actually helps the eye across the page in a
    particular direction? Or again, is it all about what is familiar?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-01 11:31:30'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "litherland: That's not exactly what I meant, but lovely! Reverse contrast,
    like the W in question. A southpaw typeface.\r\nHere's a crude example using Jenson.
    \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/reversed_5335.png]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-01 11:37:23'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Now you cookin'
  created: '2009-04-01 13:47:08'
- author:
    name: artandink
  body: Awwww. c'mon. We all know this. Look at the other letters, so conventional.
    Doesn't fit with conventional letterform that says W's are wider than M's and
    they are like two V's put together in some way. Diagonals should parallel to fit
    with other letterforms. Screw up another form and it would look more "in place".
    Not this way. Seems like a very cruel joke on the eye..... extremely annoying
    to the eye .... any eye. I would never go there.
  created: '2009-04-02 01:17:45'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: I think it's not definitely wrong, but you'd have to design a typeface using
    the reversed contrast from the start. Not just flip some shit around and call
    it a day. That just looks repugnant.
  created: '2009-04-02 02:58:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: Jelmar, do you really believe that you can flip the contrast throughout and
    have something successful at the end of it. I think we may all have been conditioned
    to the extent that it's no longer possible, otherwise someone would have made
    a good attempt already.
  created: '2009-04-02 11:25:43'
- author:
    name: Glen
  body: 'To throw my non-professional two cents in, switching the contrast would,
    for the way I read, not be practical. The heavy strokes on the W in the above
    example pull my eyes from the bottom of the letter up, (I believe this has been
    mentioned more or less) and away from where my eyes want to go, namely, down and
    to the right. That is the stumbling block to me. Perhaps a switched-contrast display
    face with a more consistent design would be fun for a title or logo, but I don''t
    think I could get through a page of text with such a font. '
  created: '2009-04-02 13:34:00'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Nick, no I mean that I think there is room -- to a certain extent -- for experimentation
    with contrast, without it being completely wrong (think Legato or Antique Olive).
    But that you need to <em>design</em> it like that from the ground up, not just
    flip some bowls around. Because that will fail every time, as shown by the examples
    in this thread.
  created: '2009-04-02 18:06:23'
- author:
    name: SkyTurtle
    picture: 117093
  body: "<em>it\u2019s just hideously ugly.</em>\r\nI don't find it nearly as a ugly
    as remarkably disconcerting. Some things are a punch in the face, this is like
    a visual charlie horse."
  created: '2009-04-03 04:02:23'
- author:
    name: Ess.P9
    picture: 116881
  body: "It seems that the general opinion as far as the logo is concerned is that
    it is ugly. From that point alone, in my opinion, it shouldn\u2019t have gone
    to print.\r\n I think that someone found the font and got excited with the unconformity
    of it. They may have thought that the difference would draw attention; but didn't
    think why. It is attention grabbing, but only because it is ugly. I thought creating
    visual treats was the basis of graphic design. Am I wrong?\r\n\r\nRandy posted
    a link above somewhere showing an interesting design using an upside down M as
    a W. This actually worked within the context of the logo but proves that Unconformity
    can draw attention looking good. \r\n\r\n(Sorry for the length of this I\u2019ll
    wrap it up now.)\r\n\r\nIn a Clam shell I think that there should be no creative
    constraints to typeface or general design. It is the differences that we make
    that drive design forward. BUT if it doesn\u2019t work visually then you should
    carry on designing until it dose. This logo obviously didn't have a \"dose this
    actually look good?\" Stage in the design.\r\n\r\nStef\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-03 15:28:11'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'Obviously, you''ll have to do it all from scratch, but it''s an interesting
    experiment. More at: http://www.typophile.com/node/56505'
  created: '2009-04-03 15:29:39'
- author:
    name: pica pusher
    picture: 111287
  body: "It's not wrong because it breaks from convention, or because it's ugly, or
    because it doesn't harmonize with the other forms. (All true by the way.)\r\n\r\nIt's
    wrong because it breaks from convention in an attention grabbing way <em>for no
    discernible purpose</em>. Since it's not clear <em>why</em> the designer chose
    to ignore the pen nib convention in that one place and no other, it's even money
    it was a mistake. If it looks like a mistake, it's wrong!"
  created: '2009-04-03 20:46:01'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It may also be wrong because this kind of po-mo is pass\xE9.\r\nIt is no
    longer experimental, because that experiment has been done, and is now in purgatory
    waiting for possible admission to retro heaven at a later date.\r\nBut funny,
    isn't it, that distressed grunge, a style contemporary with po-mo, has stuck around."
  created: '2009-04-03 21:14:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I would not say that what was attempted was \"wrong\" because I don't think
    attempting something out of the well trodden tradition is wrong. I would say that
    it was a failed attempt. Failure is a chance we take--success takes a helluva
    lot more work and the guts to push through the piles of failures we surely had
    along the way.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-04-03 21:28:57'
date: '2009-03-30 11:25:51'
title: What's wrong, if anything, with this W?

---
