---
author:
  name: John Hudson
  picture: 110397
body: "Over in the 'Most beautiful alphabet' thread, Hrant writes, in response to
  the suggestion that any writing system in the hands of a competent lettering artist
  or calligrapher can be beautiful:\r\n\r\n<em>Nah, some scripts are just dog-ugly
  no matter how hard you try.</em>\r\n\r\nSo, what do you think are the least visually
  attractive [[writing systems]], the ones that are difficult or even impossible to
  make look beautiful?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Klingon!
  created: '2009-04-01 19:31:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "This is absurd.\r\nBeauty is culture specific, so any preference one way
    or another is merely a reflection of cultural bias.\r\n\r\nCertainly, some scripts
    are harder to write than others if you're not a native, but that doesn't make
    them inherently ugly."
  created: '2009-04-01 19:45:06'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: '[redacted]'
  created: '2009-04-01 19:49:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, beauty isn't so easily defined. But certainly nobody can accuse Vietnamese
    of being the most beautiful... The thing is, as much as I value political incorrectness,
    I can't claim it was the fault of the Vietnamese people - it was the Europeans.\r\n\r\nNick:\r\n-
    What's absurd is such extreme relativism.\r\n- Why didn't you complain in the
    other thread? Because people were only saying nice things?\r\n\r\nBTW, John, what's
    your selection?  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-01 19:54:57'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "<cite>nobody can accuse Vietnamese of being the most beautiful</cite>\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    not beautiful, but I've always found it fascinating. Perhaps it's the linguist
    in me.\r\n\r\n\r\nAlthough I am part Cherokee, I find most implementations of
    the Cherokee syllabary to be ugly. "
  created: '2009-04-01 20:22:33'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "No, I'm going back to what I said before: Deseret\r\nAt first it looks pretty
    with those loopy shapes, but somehow it just doesn't work for me."
  created: '2009-04-01 20:31:22'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Ignore Shinn. You were asking for our opinions, not a statement of what 2
    plus 2 equals.\r\n\r\nAnswer: Amharic.\r\n\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-04-01 20:32:48'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "<cite>Although I am part Cherokee, I find most implementations of the Cherokee
    syllabary to be ugly.\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm working on it."
  created: '2009-04-01 20:32:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>- Why didn\u2019t you complain in the other thread? Because people were
    only saying nice things?</em>\r\n\r\nRight on. Peace."
  created: '2009-04-01 20:33:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Also, bicameral writing systems seem to tend to have one nice \"chamber\"
    and one not. Armenian's lc is very nice, but its UC has ungainly members; Latin
    has a sublime UC, but its lc is homely (but not ugly).\r\n\r\nBTW, can Morse Code
    -which is essentially a writing system- be beautiful? Maybe once in a blue moon
    to some rare soul, but certainly not enough to be qualified as Beautiful.\r\n\r\n>
    You were asking for our opinions\r\n\r\nExactly.\r\nAnd it is furthermore possible
    -and desirable- to aggregate people's opinions.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-01 20:34:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Ignore Shinn. You were asking for our opinions.</em>\r\n\r\nThat was
    my opinion, Clark."
  created: '2009-04-01 20:35:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick, I didn't ask what scripts are objectively hideous, I asked what \u2018you\u2019
    -- the Typolloi -- think are the least attractive scripts. I'm interested in the
    opinions, culturally or idiosyncratically biased as they undoubtedly will be."
  created: '2009-04-01 20:38:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "John, I don't perceive scripts as being attractive or repellent.\r\nI'm not
    immune to beauty, but IMO it's all in the execution."
  created: '2009-04-01 20:57:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "Now hang on, you're asking which script is minging? But I love Latin type
    in some faces but hate Latin type in other faces. Wouldn't that extend to other
    language systems as well? For me it's all about the typeface and less or nothing
    to do with the language system itself. \r\n\r\nI can understand someone disliking
    a particular script but they will almost certainly have a typeface (or handwriting)
    in mind when they are making those judgments, won't they? Does anyone genuinely
    have a neutral idea of a script without attaching a particular rendering, whether
    it be calligraphic or typographic. Does such a neutral or elemental version of
    each script even exist? Nope, that's just too subjective to be in any way meaningful.\r\n\r\nFor
    example, I find one script largely hideous, but I don't think that saying which
    it is will be in any way constructive in this debate, it may even be spiteful!
    Next, there are some versions of that particular script that make the thing itself
    look better and some that make it look worse. The same is true for Latin.\r\n\r\n>>>it\u2019s
    all in the execution\r\n\r\nThat, and what I have become used to and thus wedded,
    affectionate, anaesthetised, immune, indifferent or even completely switched off
    to."
  created: '2009-04-01 21:18:42'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: How about Braille - something about it gives me the bumps.
  created: '2009-04-01 21:23:07'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I think Braille is pretty ingenious. Simple, systematic, useful, usable.
    \r\nIt ain't pretty though, I'll give you that.\r\n\r\nI'll say again that I think
    the Futhark ain't pretty. Not hideous, just not pretty. I really can't think of
    a hideous one (although Vietnamese does come pretty close)."
  created: '2009-04-01 21:36:33'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I\u2019ll second Deseret. Although I think that has a lot to do with how
    quickly it came into existence\u2014most writing systems took at least a few centuries
    more."
  created: '2009-04-01 22:18:26'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Also not wild about Malayalam, but I won\u2019t call it \u201Cugly.\u201D\r\n\r\n\u2014
    \ \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-04-01 23:00:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Vietnamese does look like an explosion in a diacritics factory. I think it
    is more humorous than ugly. It is like an overly patched shoe, it still works
    as a shoe but it makes you wonder how long it will last.\r\n\r\nIn all truth,
    I don't think there are any dog-ugly scripts, just some less likable breeding
    combinations that have been unleashed on to the world.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-04-02 00:04:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Si,\r\n\r\nKlingon is a divine script, even otherworldly.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-04-02 00:06:13'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Klingon is a divine script, even otherworldly.\r\n\r\nAs is Deseret ;-)"
  created: '2009-04-02 00:15:32'
- author:
    name: ivandurakov
  body: ">>BTW, can Morse Code -which is essentially a writing system- be beautiful?
    \r\n\r\nIt is NEVER written by those actually using it..."
  created: '2009-04-02 00:19:17'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I am currently using written morse code. Works for me\u2026\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2009-04-02 00:49:10'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: '- .... .. ... /  - .... .-. . .- -.. /  .... .- ... /  --. --- -. . /  -..
    --- .-- -. /  .... .. .-.. .-..'
  created: '2009-04-02 01:10:14'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: Sherlock Holmes' <cite>Dancing Men</cite>
  created: '2009-04-02 01:32:15'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "So what's wrong with Klingon?\r\n\r\n(I know there is plenty wrong with it.
    Just trying to make conversation.)"
  created: '2009-04-02 01:40:58'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I think it all depends on how the piece of writing is executed, not specifically
    the writing system itself. I suspect that most if not all writing systems can
    look beautiful if it's done by a gifted calligrapher, as stated in the first post.\r\n\r\nOf
    course, there are scripts that look more appealing (to me or maybe to everybody)
    than others."
  created: '2009-04-02 02:03:18'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Orc is pretty bad.\r\n\r\nFor a close second, my In-laws gave us these hammered
    copper plaques with our names transliterated in acient Irish runes.\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2009-04-02 02:19:51'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2009-04-02 02:21:12'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: ">- .... .. ... / - .... .-. . .- -.. / .... .- ... / \u2014. \u2014- -. .
    / -.. \u2014- .\u2014 -. / .... .. .-.. .-..\r\n\r\nActually sii there are 3 dots
    between letters and 7 dots between words in International Morse Code. Not to be
    a spelling/grammar fanatic\u2026 :)\r\n\r\n\u2022--\u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022-\u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022-\u2022-\u2022"
  created: '2009-04-02 03:20:38'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Sorry, I used this... http://morsecode.scphillips.com/translator.html
  created: '2009-04-02 03:38:05'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I think all is forgiven\u2026 :)\r\n\r\nI am using this in a club identity.
    It's fun transmitting messages that look like geometric nonsense. I was looking
    at another geometric design based on the sidewalks outside the club and no matter
    how I tried to randomize, it wasn't. Then I changed it to morse code. Much better.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2009-04-02 03:49:49'
- author:
    name: Nachos
    picture: 116245
  body: Thai. Looks like tadpoles to me.
  created: '2009-04-02 04:51:55'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "Well, I think cyrillic often looks pretty ugly, especially the caps... But
    hell, beauty is in the eye of the beholder :-)\r\n\r\n\"It\u2019s fun transmitting
    messages that look like geometric nonsense.\"\r\n\r\nI recently came across the
    ancient berber/tuareg alphabet [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tifinagh|Tifinagh]],
    which is pretty amazing (and apparently still used by some), though I'm glad I
    don't have to use it making random notes or shopping lists!  \r\n\r\ncheerio Queneau"
  created: '2009-04-02 09:55:37'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: The web.
  created: '2009-04-02 12:28:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Texting.
  created: '2009-04-02 16:35:22'
- author:
    name: billy_
  body: "<em>Braille...ain't pretty.</em>\r\nYou are judging a system that is meant
    to be touched by how it looks. I don't care for the Latin alphabet because it
    tastes horrible.\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-02 17:02:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think the \"Q\" tastes great! Plus it has a\r\nhandle so you don't get
    your hands dirty.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-02 17:09:13'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Hrant grabs Q's by their tails! :-{\r\nDoesn't that hurt them? (I'm such
    a girl.)"
  created: '2009-04-02 17:30:01'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Hrant, you said "Q". Hehehe.
  created: '2009-04-02 17:46:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Greek tastes like dolmades to me :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-04-02 17:57:20'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>I\u2019ll second Deseret. Although I think that has a lot to do with
    how quickly it came into existence\u2014most writing systems took at least a few
    centuries more.</em>\r\n\r\nI think this is the main problem with most writing
    systems that I consider to be 'less-than-well-informed' (not necessarily ugly),
    It seems several more recent script/alphabet developments that were developed
    with only one media in mind (be it handwriting, type, typewriter, screen, &c.)
    suffer from having characters or diacritics that are clumsy at least to design
    in a range of type styles and probably and probably sometimes clumsy in writing.\r\n\r\nI
    quite like Latin script, it has an almost endless range of styles: from all the
    calligraphic hands and all the wonderful type styles that were developed first
    for Latin script. However, Latinized Vietnamese is an assault on the eyes and
    it seems to me that whoever concocted the current orthography didn't do so in
    as thoughtful a manner as might have been done. I like Latinized Navajo MUCH more
    than Vietnamese and it seems that Navajo solves some of the same problems as are
    present in Vietnamese in a more elegant (but probably not perfect) manner. I really
    don't like the combining accents in Vietnamese that always seem (to me) to be
    colliding, no matter how nicely you try to make them appear. Vietnamese needs
    a refresh.\r\n\r\nI really like the Cyrillic script. I think it works better in
    writing than in print. The capitals are wonderful, but the canonized form of the
    lower case could do with some more experimental treatments to find something that
    harmonizes better with than the current iteration. That said, I don't feel that
    the so-called Bulgarian Cyrillic is an improvement on the more common form. Perhaps
    there is some native Cyrillic user with as much wit as Marian Bantjes who can
    <a href=\"http://www.underconsideration.com/speakup/archives/002383.html#002383\">critique
    the alphabet</a> in such a way as to inspire designers to take more risks in trying
    to develop a better typographic Cyrillic lowercase. But overall it works, except
    I find that all the extra letters required for Abkhaz are atrocious, just try
    designing a good looking 'K/ka with vertical stroke' (u+049C/D), it IS possible,
    but the 'Abkhasian C/che with descender' (u+04BE/F)(and even without the descener)
    is reprehensible. Abkhaz needs a refresh.\r\n\r\nAnd where does IPA fit within
    this scheme, is it a script? Is it an orthography? Is it an extension of the Latin
    Alphabet? (I am guessing it's a bit of all of these things) Some of the 'letters'
    (as that is what they are for some African orthagraphies) could have been better
    planned such as the hooked f or all the hooked letters for that case. If new orthographies
    are going to continue to incorporate IPA symbols, some of these letters ought
    to be rethought. I personally think that a truly 'international' alphabet or script
    should be better designed and should be descriptive such as the Korean script
    or perhaps even Tengwar (I'm sure I'm the only one that would love to see that
    last suggestion fly!) IPA needs a refresh. Talk about a type battle! There's a
    challenge for a whole team of seasoned type designers.\r\n\r\nAnd I haven't looked
    closely enough at it, but I think it'd be a challenge to make N'Ko look good."
  created: '2009-04-02 18:02:07'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: It's interesting that the writing systems I find least well-conceived are
    those that are extensions of other more 'stable' writing systems. but perhaps
    this has to do with my own experience and frustration actually trying to design
    some of these characters.
  created: '2009-04-02 18:15:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...just try designing a good looking \u2019K/ka with vertical stroke\u2019...</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    is only an issue if you're not willing to accept the odd deviation from uniformity.
    Consider the comma in Helvetica, or the tail of the \"a\" in Clarendon Bold--these
    characters have strokes which are atypically thin compared with anything else
    in the font. Or the ring accent in most fonts.\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-02 18:23:11'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: 'Nick, but think about screen fonts: I''ve had to hint this damn character
    before. To get this letter to read well at small sizes (on screen or otherwise)
    you have to create a very ugly glyph shape.'
  created: '2009-04-02 18:35:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Talk about a type battle!\r\n\r\nIndeed. Something I like to state now
    and again: Graphic design is to writing system design what poodle training is
    to anaconda taming.\r\n\r\n> It\u2019s interesting that the writing systems I
    find least well-conceived\r\n> are those that are extensions of other more \u2019stable\u2019
    writing systems.\r\n\r\nI agree, and it makes sense. And it casts a much needed
    bad light on all that \"Latin is great because it's so extensible!\" codswallop.\r\n\r\n>
    This is only an issue if you\u2019re not willing\r\n> to accept the odd deviation
    from uniformity.\r\n\r\nNo, I believe in non-uniformity, but there's no reason
    to believe that ugly/ungainly <em>structures</em> must be the result.\r\n\r\nTry
    extending the Latin alphabet with <em>this</em>:\r\nhttp://www.rtc.org/pics/intro/intro_scn.jpg\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-02 19:47:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Hrant, you said \u201CQ\u201D. Hehehe.\r\n\r\nOh, I just got the joke...\r\nI
    just <em>have</em> to ask: how exactly did yours get a <em>handle</em>?!  ;->\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-02 19:53:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...but think about screen fonts:</em> \r\n\r\nRight. Even today, would
    nationalists affirming their identity through alphabet reform consider how the
    confetti of diacritics and modifying marks attached to letters might display on
    screen at low resolution?\r\n\r\nBut if that is a problem, why not just drop the
    accents below a certain screen size? For instance, Slovak writing allows fewer
    diacritics than Slovak in print."
  created: '2009-04-02 20:20:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nah, just use Morse Code: it works\r\ngreat at 2 PPEM - including leading!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-02 20:31:07'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Hrant wrote: <em>What\u2019s absurd is such extreme relativism.</em>\r\n\r\nA
    refreshing statement. \r\n\r\nThe mashup of Arabic numerals and Latin letters
    in western alphabets is an awkward one. To this day, the first face I designed
    is unfinished because I couldn't create figures that didn't detract from what
    I had established with the alphabet. Obviously there are piles of type that have
    succeeded at this challenge, but you don't feel that until you try to draw type
    and make it work. "
  created: '2009-04-03 08:51:51'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Am I the only on to get Sii's Braille pun? :)
  created: '2009-04-03 15:44:28'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Please don't acknowledge the puns. It only encourages them.
  created: '2009-04-03 16:18:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Si was just goosing it a bit, Joe. He deserves encouragement but goodness
    knows puns should never be tollerated on this esteemed site.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-04-03 17:54:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Did you mean trollerated?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-03 17:59:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: ":-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-04-03 18:00:16'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Joe's \"Pun Enforcement Taskforce\" - a PET project? \r\n\r\nCrrrrringe :-)"
  created: '2009-04-03 18:00:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "But to do it, Si, you need a PETdegree:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-04-03 19:39:48'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Has anyone mentioned my handwriting? \r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2009-04-04 02:20:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "No, Russ, first they would mention mine, followed closely by my son's, then
    you might be third worst :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-04-04 04:13:27'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Sorry, the doctors and pharmacists come first, by a long shot.
  created: '2009-04-04 05:52:41'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: '[[http://www.omniglot.com/writing/ita.htm|Pitman ITA]] sort of falls in the
    same boat as Vietnamese and Cherokee -- a lot of bastardized shapes crammed into
    odd spaces, that no typeface could really fix because there are some fundamental
    flaws in their design. '
  created: '2009-04-04 12:33:01'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"... bastardized shapes crammed into odd spaces, that no typeface could
    really fix because there are some fundamental flaws...\"\r\nThe web again!"
  created: '2009-04-04 12:39:24'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "As for Vietnamese: it was not \u201Cthe Europeans\u201D.\r\nIt was the French
    (which is strikingly obvious).\r\n\r\n;-)"
  created: '2009-04-04 13:04:37'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: A little while ago Patrick Doan showed me some work he did on getting Vietnamese
    to look better. I was impressed. One of the many things he looked at was making
    the very high frequency letter shapes hnmu shapes more divergent by lowering the
    join to the stem. From what I could see it was quite a good idea. It makes designing
    an italic a little harder but in this case it looked utterly worthwhile. He was
    also looking at what people had been doing to the diacritics with sign painting
    etc. I suspect that Vietnamese does have some inherent challenges but Patrick's
    approach to sorting a way forward and the examples he showed me did seem to suggest
    that there is a great deal of power in execution. Paul's points about nightmare
    characters are right on though.
  created: '2009-04-04 13:09:41'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">It was the French (which is strikingly obvious).\r\n\r\nSurely the \"Romans\"
    share some of the blame too? They invented the base characters and the French
    love of diacritics just made things worse :-)"
  created: '2009-04-04 14:51:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Andreas, I used to blame the French directly* but then somebody told me (btw,
    he wasn't French :-) that they were actually springboarding off work done by Christian
    missionaries (hmmm, maybe he was an atheist :-). Is that incorrect? In any case,
    actually applying a system can certainly be worse than inventing it, and there
    the French get all the \"credit\".\r\n\r\n* And would add that what they did still
    pales in comparison to the hyper-chauvinistic Latinization that has passed for
    non-Latin type design in the past decades.\r\n\r\nEben, I'd love to see that.
    And then try to figure\r\nout how the Vietnamese themselves might like it.\r\n\r\nSimon,
    indeed many of our problems go back to the\r\nRomans. Like Modernism. No winkie
    smiley needed.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-04 15:13:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Let's not forget that the Chinese were the first host to offer the Vietnamese
    their script.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-04-04 15:20:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "More likely the Vietnamese wanted to write stuff down, and they looked to
    a dominant culture for guidance, adapting that script to their language. Their
    old N\xF4m writing system is indeed logographic*, but not a <em>politically-motivated
    retrofit</em> of another writing system (retrofits being what Paul noted as typically
    resulting in an inferior script).\r\n\r\n* Which is of course the power of Chinese.
    Although the Vietnamese did add things to it, they actually didn't really need
    to - they just needed to assign meanings to the existing symbols.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-04 15:52:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"looked to a dominant culture for guidance\"\r\n\r\nEuphemism.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-04-04 16:32:05'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "The history I have heard - this is sheer anecdote so take it with salt as
    it were -  is that Chinese was the writing of the elite and that when roman became
    taught and used by the majority denied an education in chinese forms by missionaries
    & so on it simply won through ubiquity. \r\n\r\nThe phrase \"looked to a\" is
    silly and logically false. There is no entity called Vietnamese Culture that can
    be \"looking\" or feeling or eating etc. The urge to create these fictions is
    tempting because it makes story telling easier. But should be resisted in general.
    In almost all cases failing to resist just stirs up mud where we could otherwise
    be benefiting from clear thinking."
  created: '2009-04-04 16:58:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Chinese was the writing of the elite\r\n\r\nMakes sense - the same thing
    happened in Korea.\r\n\r\nHowever your view of cultural borrowing is surprisingly
    narrow. Is this something you've been fed at Reading? Although a given culture
    isn't a person that can walk, talk and eat, people do feel they belong to a culture,
    and they see other cultures as entities of sorts; furthermore they see opportunities
    to take things from other cultures and improve their own culture. This happens
    all the time in non-Latin type design for example, where a non-Westerner will
    live and study in the West, develop an admiration for Latin in general and a given
    typestyle in particular, and proceed to make a font in his own script that mimics
    it. There's no reason to deny that this sort of thing can happen on a grander
    scale, specifically the creation of a writing system inspired by and/or based
    on another. Cultural exchange is not limited to imposition by the materially strong
    on the weak; remember not least the pronounced Roman borrowing of Greek culture
    after the military conquest.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-04 17:19:28'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I am not saying cultural exchange and other phenomena don't happen. Of course
    they do. But this stuff is rich and complicated. And there are people involved.
    And actual cultural values and tendencies. But still, I am saying that there is
    no "thing" which is for example "vietnamese culture" which you can have a direct
    dialog with, invite to dinner etc. It makes more sense to think of a bee or an
    any colony as an entity than to think of a culture as one. The people who benefit
    from "entity" making are owners of newspapers who talk about a musical "british
    invasion" or create stories about soccer teams and "nations opposed". It make
    for an easy story. But it is, at root, a way of making something which is rich
    and complicated ( hard/scary) falsely simple (easy/comfortable) . It is a mental/intellectual
    crutch. Throw it away.
  created: '2009-04-04 17:51:11'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "According to the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vietnamese_language|Wikipedia
    article on Vietnamese]], the romanization was done by the Portuguese, not the
    French.\r\n\r\nAlso 70% of the vocabulary is from the Chinese, and like Chinese
    it does not conjugate. This makes it well suited to Chinese characters--more so
    than Japanese, which does conjugate verbs, and so needs additional symbols beyond
    Chinese characters. It also has tones and sounds like its neighboring language,
    Cantonese. However, a base of words is, if I understand the article rightly, from
    a different language group--something like English, with its Germanic roots and
    heavily Latin vocabulary.  "
  created: '2009-04-04 17:59:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But the non-French Europeans were non-governmental. My point is, that lays
    the blame -at least for the creation of the system if not its formal application-
    on individuals and smaller interests, as opposed to an entire chauvinistic culture.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-04 18:25:12'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Welsh orthography gives me headaches.\r\n\r\nNot that the English manipulations
    of the Latin alphabet are saintly, what with the varying pronunciations of the
    \"-ugh\" suffix. \r\n\r\nAs we've seen with the discussion of Vietnamese, it's
    not only the letters, but how they're used that makes or breaks a writing system's
    beauty.\r\n\r\n\r\nKlingon was mentioned earlier, an invented language for fictional
    alien creatures that at least at some point in history was more widely studied
    and spoken than Esperanto. Its official script is the Latin alphabet [[http://www.kli.org/tlh/sounds.html|<ul>used
    as described here,</ul>]] but also has at least two invented alphabets, one of
    which is mapped to the sounds listed above, but were used strictly decoratively
    in the films. The style of the example fonts make it difficult to discern how
    it might be handwritten, or even what tool might be used to make those marks."
  created: '2009-04-04 19:40:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Its official script is the Latin alphabet\r\n\r\nHow retarded is that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-04 21:03:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Let's say a Vietnamese village full of people is dying of thirst.  There
    might be strangers who come by from other cultures who have plenty of water to
    drink, do the Vietnamese say, \"No, I won't drink your water because it is not
    from my culture, I choose to go without first.\"? No, they don't ask what business
    they have there or if they are harboring deception or imperialistic intent, or
    a foreign religion based on an unknown world, they just drink the water and are
    satiated. \r\nThe Vietnamese have had a very long history of being either invaded,
    annexed, colonized, and prostilitized by foreigners both eastern and western.
    From the Chinese to the Americans, they have known no peace until the mid 1970's.
    Some foreigners brought aspects of written language to a culture that was vastly
    illiterate. Many Vietnamese were thirsty for written communication and literacy
    and took from their invaders and those who also came to bring \"salvation of their
    souls\" reading and writing since they had precious little of their own to begin
    with. When they could, they finally cast out the waves of different invaders and
    began their own life. \r\nIf at some point, they decide they need a new script
    instead of the patchwork they adopted from foreigners, they will devise it themselves.
    Until then, the Vietnamese don't need yet another foreigner or group of foreigners
    to either make up their minds to do it for them or convince them to do the task
    themselves. Hindsight is easy and outsiders may think they know better (including
    me and anyone else on this forum) but it is not our call to cast judgement on
    what they should have done in the past or should do in the future. Sure, we can
    give our opinion on the aesthetic feeling we get from their script but their is
    no need to cast blame. We can save that for the more heinous things we and other
    nations have done.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-04-04 21:32:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'It''s not retard at all. The great majority of the people learning the Klingon
    language are native users of the Latin script. Most of them are not terribly interested
    in the invented scripts: they''re interested in the language. '
  created: '2009-04-04 21:33:14'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">It\u2019s not retard at all. The great majority of the people learning the
    Klingon language are native users of the Latin script. Most of them are not terribly
    interested in the invented scripts: they\u2019re interested in the language.\r\n\r\nThis
    was the reason Klingon was kept out of Unicode. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-04 23:22:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Whatever the reasons that various political entities have adopted national
    versions of their local language(s) using the Latin script, there doesn't seem
    to be a connection with how they have gone about customizing the script.\r\n\r\nCertain
    languages, such as Slovak and Vietnamese, certainly emphasize a strongly visual
    national character, but I wonder if the disposition of diacritics has a negative
    impact on reading. On the other hand, languages such as Serbian and Malay make
    do without a lot of diacritics. \r\n\r\nPolish has a lot of diacritics, but they
    distribute fairly evenly in text, not bunching up as in Czech or Vietnamese.\r\nGreek
    (polytonic) has a huge amount of diacritics, but again, their distribution isn't
    clustered."
  created: '2009-04-04 23:28:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Chris, although I can't pretend to be a \"native\" in more than\r\nthree
    scripts, I still wouldn't consider myself an \"outsider\" to\r\nVietnamese even
    if I were... Klingon! We <em>share</em> this environment.\r\n\r\n> they\u2019re
    interested in the language.\r\n\r\nWell, maybe one fine day enough of them will
    care about <em>visible</em> language too. All it might take would be to notice
    the greater contemporary importance of reading versus listening in pretty much
    all natural languages! And they could easily have planned ahead for such a versatile
    future by applying a much more sensical and equally robust approach: have an \"official\"
    non-Latin writing system, and simply implement a transliteration to Latin. In
    fact since this is all invented anyway they can still arrive at such a setup,
    starting from the Latin and reverse-transliterating a new script.\r\n\r\n> This
    was the reason Klingon was kept out of Unicode.\r\n\r\nEvery cloud has a silver
    lining...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-05 00:13:15'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "As a native Czech speaker living permanently overseas I have been omitting
    the diacritics in Czech in my typing for decades. Originally, because there were
    no keyboards/software here that would allow it, nowadays because of habit. My
    friends and relatives who live in UK, Germany, US and elsewhere do the same. \r\n\r\nAmazingly,
    there are only a very few instances indeed where the lack of diacritics could
    cause any confusion: on the whole, Czech writing is comprehensible without (IMO).
    However, diacritics are necessary as a guide to pronounciation in the spoken language.
    I find the diacritics distracting in reading and sometimes wish the Czechs reformed
    again and done away with it.\r\n\r\nAs with the criticism of Vietnamese writing
    presented above, I think that using diacritics generally is really trying to make
    scripts do something they were not designed to do, to fine-tune otherwise convenient
    adoption from another culture. From that point of view, the fewer the better.
    Examples of adapting scripts without diacritics abovnd (apologies, should not
    iest). "
  created: '2009-04-05 01:19:55'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Speaking of diacritics, I feel that the system of vowelling points for Hebrew--nikkud--detract
    from the beauty of the script. For some reason, the dot above (vav, shin) and
    in front (vav) don't seem to be clutter, but all the stuff below never works visually.
    And I have the feeling it can't really be 'read', but rather laboriously pronounced.
    For non-native speakers, it's a tremendous help--that's what it was created for--but
    it doesn't look very good. With both nikkud and teamim--the cantillation marks
    for chanting sacred texts--it really becomes a mess.  \r\n\r\nNative speakers
    generally don't use it, nor does the Torah scroll, so it's no big issue. But that's
    my two cents.   "
  created: '2009-04-05 01:46:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Alphabetic and other phonetic-based writing systems -- i.e. those that represent
    spoken language symbolically -- are always faced with the question of how much
    of spoken language to represent. Spoken language is phenomenally rich, and only
    phonetic transcription systems such as IPA are designed to represent any sound
    that humans can make (including specialised additions for disordered speech of
    various kinds). Most writing systems represent only a subset of linguistic phenomena,
    but may provide options to increase that subset. The Vietnamese alphabet is complex
    because it represents more discreet vowel sounds than many other writing systems,
    and it consistently represents tone. It isn't unique in this. The Thai alphabet,
    for example, represents a very similar set of linguistic phenomena, but it looks
    better because the letters, vowel signs and tone marks evolved in parallel, rather
    than overloading marks onto Latin letters that had evolved without them.\r\n\r\nThe
    majority of sub-Saharan African languages are tonal, but most of the orthographies
    indicate tone optionally, i.e. it is not marked consistently but only in pedagogical
    materials or when necessary to distinguish otherwise identical words in situations
    where meaning might be ambiguous. Nasalisation is another phenomenon that is optionally
    marks, again to distinguish words. This means that text in an African language
    may either look quite clean and simple, or may be liberally covered in tone and
    other accent marks, depending on the variety of linguistic phenomena represented."
  created: '2009-04-05 01:57:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Since the Greek language reform, the number and density of diacritics have
    been greatly reduced in Monotonic. The problem always exists is that there are
    numerous published works in use still today which use the older Polytonic system,
    therefore, it is still needed. This is not just for scholarly works and ancient
    writing, but the many books and articles written prior to the reform or the many
    that ignored it. Greek is still less cumbersome because there is not as much stacking
    above and below the xheight as there is in Vietnamese.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-04-05 04:00:13'
- author:
    name: kiwehtin
  body: "I put forward Sutton SignWriting\u2122 for the prize. It's a system based
    originally on a movement notation used to describe dance, rather than a script
    conceived from the get go as a writing system for sign language. (There are several
    proposed sign language scripts, one dating back 200 years, but none has become
    as widely used as SignWriting.) The system is essentially a combination of stylised
    pictographs of handshapes and the face plus several kinds of conventional arrows
    and assorted diacritic symbols used to describe head, eye and hand movements.
    The symbols are arranged as schematic drawings of the spatial arrangement of the
    hands and face when a sign is made (from the perspective of the person signing.)
    \r\n\r\nFor a taste of what it looks like, follow these links to a relatively
    long article about SignWriting by a deaf author and a page with SW greeting cards
    on the SignWriting web site:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.signwriting.org/archive/docs6/sw0526-US-Why-SignWriting-Frost.pdf\r\nhttp://www.signwriting.org/cards/\r\n\r\nThere
    are two things I find ungainly (to keep it nice) about the system. For one, the
    symbols are all very blocky and and drawn in a very rudimentary way and the system
    actually requires the interiors of many symbol shapes to be coloured in solid
    (or for parts of the symbol to be \"broken\" and the line gapped in white) to
    convey certain kinds of information. The second thing is the way the symbols are
    arranged as a schematic drawing of everything that happens when a sign is made,
    from the point of view of the signer. \r\n\r\nBasing the character inventory on
    shapes, plus the use of colouring-in of shapes and breaking-up of lines is unique
    as far as I know among all writing systems. Every other writing system I can think
    of relies on combinations of straight and curved lines to form its characters.
    The way the SW characters are drawn results in the most ungraceful character set
    of any script I have seen, and in fact all other systems that have been proposed
    for sign languages follow the usual line-based construction of characters. One
    major disadvantage of the script is that handshapes and arrows \u2013 as well
    as being coloured in or broken \u2013 are rotated on the page/screen to reproduce
    more or less precisely the direction they face or point, <strong>and</strong>
    are precisely placed on the writing area to show where and how a hand touches
    another or touches the face. This makes for an extremely convoluted and complicated
    computer representation and input system, with a plethora of characters (and positions
    in the sign diagram) for every minute difference in the way a given handshape
    can be held in space. \r\n\r\nCombining characters in schematic drawings of a
    sign being made (including rotating handshape symbols in space and colouring them
    in or gapping them at one end to represent which way the palm faces), together
    with the way sequences of fingerspelling handshapes are arranged in horizontal
    lines, makes for a chaotic visual image on the page, with no consistent arrangement
    of characters in space, unlike any other script I know of. The way all the symbols
    are drawn and combined leads to a situation where one can only communicate a minimal
    amount of information per page, way less than any other natural script. This seems
    to me to be a major barrier to wider adoption and use. \r\n\r\nMyself, I think
    SignWriting's basic idea of representing the simultaneous combination of handshapes,
    locations and movements by combining characters in a two-dimensional matrix is
    sound, rather than stringing them out in a line the way other sign language scripts
    have done. But I have trouble seeing how SW as it is can be repaired without gutting
    the system and rebuilding it. \r\n\r\nI have been working on an alternative to
    SW that follows the basic principles of sinoform scripts. The basic component
    characters are drawn with combinations of strokes similar to Sino-Japanese h\xE0nz\xEC/kanji
    and Korean Hangul and arranged in square matrices just like complex kanji or hangul
    syllables. The overall appearance and rhythm is somewhere in between Chinese script
    and Korean Hangul, which I think makes for a far more attractive appearance, and
    also for a much more economical computer representation and simpler input as well. "
  created: '2009-08-05 03:05:23'
- author:
    name: Qinshi
  body: "It is true that Vietnamese to those unfamiliar with the language looks like
    a horrible mess. However, as a speaker of it, you get used to it eventually just
    like any other writing system. I don't think the diacritics are much of a hassle
    - reading and writing is much easier than some people make it out to be. I am
    also learning Chinese and also the old Vietnamese writing system of Ch\u1EEF N\xF4m.
    I love Ch\u1EEF N\xF4m - it's complex yet has a certain mystical beauty about
    it like Chinese. Oh and before the modern Romanised script called Ch\u1EEF Qu\u1ED1c
    Ng\u1EEF and even before the Chinese style Ch\u1EEF N\xF4m, the ancient Vietnamese
    had their own writing system called Ch\u1EEF Khoa \u0110\u1EA9u which was a set
    of tadpole-like etchings. \r\n\r\n<em>[Cho nh\u1EEFng ai m\xE0 kh\xF4ng quen thu\u1ED9c
    v\u1EDBi ti\u1EBFng Vi\u1EC7t th\xEC ch\u1EAFc ch\u1EAFn l\xE0 h\u1ECD s\u1EBD
    th\u1EA5y c\xE1i b\u1ED9 ch\u1EEF Qu\u1ED1c Ng\u1EEF r\u1EA5t l\xE0 l\u1ED9n x\u1ED9n
    v\xE0 x\u1EA5u x\xED. Tuy nhi\xEAn, khi \u0111\xE3 h\u1ECDc ng\xF4n ng\u1EEF Vi\u1EC7t,
    th\xEC ai n\u1EA5y \u0111\u1EC1u c\u0169ng ph\u1EA3i quen th\xF4i. Tui ngh\u0129
    r\u1EB1ng ba c\xE1i d\u1EA5u ph\u1EE5 d\xF9ng trong ch\u1EEF vi\u1EBFt kh\xF4ng
    l\u1ED9n x\u1ED9n g\xEC m\u1EA5y - v\xE0 s\u1EF1 \u0111\u1ECDc v\xE0 vi\u1EBFt
    ti\u1EBFng Vi\u1EC7t l\u1EA1i d\u1EC5 h\u01A1n nhi\u1EC1u ng\u01B0\u1EDDi ngh\u0129.
    Tui c\u0169ng r\u1EA5t th\xEDch Ch\u1EEF N\xF4m - cho d\xF9 n\xF3 kh\xF3 h\u1ECDc
    th\u1EADt nh\u01B0ng n\xF3 c\xF3 m\u1ED9t c\xE1i n\xE9t \u0111\u1EB9p r\u1EA5t
    l\xE0 \u0111\u1EB7c bi\u1EC7t nh\u01B0 ch\u1EEF H\xE1n. \xC0 tr\u01B0\u1EDBc khi
    ng\u01B0\u1EDDi Vi\u1EC7t l\u1EA5y Ch\u1EEF Qu\u1ED1c Ng\u1EEF l\xE0m ch\xEDnh
    th\u1EE9c v\xE0 c\u0169ng tr\u01B0\u1EDBc th\u1EDDi ng\u01B0\u1EDDi Vi\u1EC7t
    s\u1EED d\u1EE5ng b\u1ED9 ch\u1EEF H\xE1n-N\xF4m, t\u1EEB th\u1EDDi c\u1ED5 ng\u01B0\u1EDDi
    Vi\u1EC7t \u0111\xE3 c\xF3 d\xF9ng m\u1ED9t lo\u1EA1i ch\u1EEF Khoa \u0110\u1EA9u
    mang nh\u1EEFng c\xE1i k\xFD hi\u1EC7u y h\u1EC7t nh\u01B0 m\u1EA5y con n\xF2ng
    n\u1ECDc.]</em>\r\n\r\nSo a rough timeline would be presented as:\r\n\r\n[Before
    the CE] > [~100BCE > 1919CE] > [~1200CE > 1919CE] > [~1700CE +]\r\nTadpole script
    > Chinese script > Vernacular script > Romanised Script\r\n\r\n>Wow this font
    does not do Vietnamese any justice :P"
  created: '2009-11-01 06:37:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> you get used to it eventually\r\n\r\nThat does not make it a good thing.
    You can get used to losing a leg too.\r\n\r\nA writing system where the differentiation
    between letters relies on tiny floating bits is severely sub-optimal. Not to mention
    the aesthetic ungainliness.\r\n\r\nPeople can handle very expansive character
    sets; a swarm of diacritics added to a poor base set might seem convenient and
    cost-effective, but culturally and functionally it's really only useful to the
    colonial power in the long term.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-01 14:03:45'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>A writing system where the differentiation between letters relies on
    tiny floating bits is severely sub-optimal</cite>\r\n\r\nThat could be said of
    practically any writing system."
  created: '2009-11-01 18:27:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "True. I'm not claiming anything qualitative. But also, everything\r\nis -and
    can be made- better or worse, in some context or other.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-01 18:56:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Practically speaking, in the case of Vietnamese, the possible revival of
    N\xF4m notwithstanding, maybe the overloaded base letters can have variants depending
    on what's added (carefully chosen to increase word differentiation). For the \"a\"
    you could have a mono versus bi form; for the \"o\" maybe a round versus schwabacher
    form (spiky on top and bottom). The problem is this would make it even more \"noisy\"...\r\n\r\nWhat
    you really need is for the diacritics to be integral; like how a good ogonek is
    made. Especially for letters with more than one.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-01 19:12:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks, Qinshi, I have little better idea of what is going on now. It still
    seems very obscure because I did not grow up reading it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-11-01 21:19:00'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"What you really need is for the diacritics to be integral\"</em>\r\nThat
    would be great, but I don't see how it can be practical for all of them.\r\nIn
    any case though, they do need more attention and care, and they most often need
    more room. I'm curious, has anyone yet made a font that has a smaller x-height
    for languages like Vietnamese than stuff like Greenlandic? Ideally, I'm thinking
    a Latin font would need different base glyphs \u2013at the very least, a variable
    x-height\u2013 for <em>any</em> language it presumes to cover, to make it work
    really well (or really just <em>equally</em> well across languages).\r\nBut no,
    I'm not going to that trouble either\u2026 :-\\"
  created: '2009-11-01 21:53:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> has anyone yet made a font that has a smaller x-height for\r\n> languages
    like Vietnamese than stuff like Greenlandic?\r\n\r\nBilak's Eureka did that for
    Czech.\r\n(Nice glyphs, but its spacing is way off.)\r\nhttp://typographica.org/000453.php\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-01 22:29:47'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Hmm, Eureka has a smaller x-height because it's optimized for Czech, right?\r\nWhat
    I meant is language-dependent *varying* of x-height / base glyphs. \r\nLike, one
    and the same font (or type system) could have a taller x-height for Greenlandic,
    which uses very few extenders; narrower glyphs for Finnish, with its many repetitions
    and long words; a smaller x-height for Czech; an even smaller one for Vietnamese;
    maybe longer descenders for Polish, to fit ogoneks?, & such.\r\nIt would be a
    pain to make, but I think one must question the functionality of the one-size-fits-all
    premise of the Latin script."
  created: '2009-11-01 23:43:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '[[http://scripts.sil.org/cms/scripts/page.php?site_id=nrsi&item_id=Gentium|Gentium]]
    was designed to handle all kinds of diacritics, including Vietnamese. '
  created: '2009-11-02 00:04:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I was recently setting some specimens in Navajo, which uses an extraordinary
    number of acute accents. Long vowels are indicated by doubling, and stress by
    acute accents. Long stressed vowels carry an acute accent on both letters, so
    a page of Navajo text looks like it's had hundreds of darts thrown at it. Also
    i with both ogonek and acute and, of course, the same doubled.
  created: '2009-11-02 05:23:15'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: 'but to me the Navajo orthography is very reflective of the spoken language:
    strange and wonderful.'
  created: '2009-11-03 00:32:57'
- author:
    name: johnnydib
    picture: 116018
  body: Did anyone mention the [[http://www.shawalphabet.com/|Shavian script]] or
    the "Shaw Alphabet"?
  created: '2009-11-03 00:53:07'
- author:
    name: aric
    picture: 113195
  body: "Navajo vowels present contrasts along four axes: quality (a, e, i, o), length
    (short or long), tone (low or high; syllabic n also bears tone), and nasality
    (absent or present).  I'm sure there are a number of ways to deal with all of
    those factors, but if you're going to represent the complexity of the vowel system,
    one way or another you're going to end up with a complex orthography.\r\n\r\nThe
    Hmong Romanized Popular Alphabet deals with some of these issues by using conventional
    letters in unconventional ways.  Doubled vowels indicate nasality; letters at
    the end of a syllable indicate tone.  These conventions work because in there
    is no contrastive vowel length and because the few syllable-final consonants are
    predictable from nasality and tone and need not be written.  In addition to these
    innovations, several of the letters and digraphs in RPA represent different sounds
    than they typically represent in other languages.\r\n\r\nTo illustrate, in RPA
    the word /m\u0325\u0254\u0303\u014B\u02E6/ (Hmong) is written \"Hmoob\"; the 'hm'
    represents voiceless m, the 'oo' represents a nasalized mid-back vowel (the nasality
    implies the \u014B), and the b represents high tone.\r\n\r\nThe clear upside to
    this orthography is that no diacritics or special characters are required; the
    downside is that, because it violates so many conventions, the uninitiated can't
    even come close to reading it right even though it's written with the Latin alphabet.\r\n\r\nComing
    back to Navajo: since virtually all Navajo speakers are also fluent (and, if they're
    old enough, literate) in English, it's probably easier for them to deal with diacritics
    and more or less standard alphabetic conventions than it would be to adopt a Hmong-style
    system that might be more aesthetically pleasing but doesn't work in the way we
    understand an alphabet to work.  Of course, here I'm setting up a false dichotomy;
    there are probably ways to represent the contrastive features of Navajo that preserve
    basic alphabetic conventions without going overboard with diacritics."
  created: '2009-11-03 08:09:35'
date: '2009-04-01 19:22:57'
title: Most hideous writing system?

---
