---
author:
  name: zevbiz
  picture: 115672
body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dinnext_fontsample_01_d29028i4_5111.gif]\r\nhttp://www.linotype.com/5798/dinnext.html"
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Shouldn't there be only one [[DIN]] typeface?
  created: '2009-04-05 18:27:05'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Any thoughts on DIN Next?\r\n\r\n$orry I \u20ACan\u2019t \xA3ven $tart to
    \u20B2ue$$ their \u20A5otiv\u20B3tio\u20A6"
  created: '2009-04-06 16:14:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I was wondering whether it would be problematic to have more than one \"standard\".\r\nBut
    the round style here throws some light on that issue.\r\nDIN Round is actually
    very appropriate to several of the original uses of the typeface--where it was
    \"output\" by Rapidograph pen (in technical drawings) or router (e.g. signs \"engraved\"
    in plastic laminate or stainless steel).\r\nSo the variety of styles does not
    really create more than one standard, it merely represents a single standard as
    it would appear in different media.\r\nEqually legitimate would be a crude \"brush\"
    version of the face, as rendered by a clumsy artisan...\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-06 18:17:20'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Could someone shed some light on the rights situation maybe? I'm a bit confused
    that now Linotype is coming out with DIN Next, after FF has come out with FF DIN.
    It seems like everyone is making their own private DIN now, and I wonder how they
    can do that &ndash; even using the same name?
  created: '2009-04-06 19:56:51'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: Linotype has been licensing DIN long before FF DIN was ever thought of. I
    guess, since DIN is an official industry standard (Deutsche Industrie Norm), the
    design rights are public domain (or whatever).
  created: '2009-04-06 20:13:05'
- author:
    name: Roger S. Nelsson
    picture: 114302
  body: And it looks like yet another large family version of DIN is on its way...
    (currently at the MyFonts test server - for those of you participating on MyFonts
    ;)
  created: '2009-04-06 20:18:06'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: Hey, why dont we all do a version?
  created: '2009-04-06 20:25:31'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Could someone shed some light on the rights situation maybe? \r\n\r\nThe
    best way to describe it would be to say it\u2019s probably the same as Highway
    Gothic in the USA - a relatively recent design that has been placed in the public
    domain. That's not to say individual interpretations (eg Interstate) are not protectable.\r\n\r\n>Hey,
    why dont we all do a version?\r\n\r\nBecause the font is, like, so 2007 ;-)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2009-04-06 20:54:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: More like 1937.
  created: '2009-04-06 21:48:57'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: First time I ever saw it in use in a magazine for headlines was in 1989 (by
    Neville Brody).
  created: '2009-04-06 21:55:16'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "I like the openness of the lowercase a and a few other letters, but I think
    does not look as balanced as FF Din. The bolds are particularly wobbly. \r\n\r\nMikey
    :-)"
  created: '2009-04-06 22:11:49'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "At least nobody will have an excuse for using Adobe DIN. Adobe's DIN Schriften
    and it's rabble of accompanying mismatched weights if fun for a while, but not
    a type family.\r\n\r\nSometimes you use <a href=\"http://images.google.com/images?hl=en&client=firefox-a&rls=org.mozilla%3Aen-US%3Aofficial&hs=u3I&um=1&sa=1&q=jetblue+tail&btnG=Search+Images&aq=f&oq=\">Adobe
    DIN</a> when you don't know there's a better one out there."
  created: '2009-04-07 00:22:52'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Adobe's DIN is actually Linotype DIN. Adobe is only acting as a vendor.
  created: '2009-04-07 00:34:38'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thanks for the background guys.\r\nGetting back to what Nick said earlier,
    it does feel pretty wacky that a <em>standards</em> face such as DIN gets rehashed,
    resampled and replayed <em>this</em> much\u2026 (Although I don't actually dislike
    it; there's just\u2026 a lot of it recently.)\r\n\r\nMikey, agree re the wobbliness.
    (And it's Not Good when DIN of all things wobbles.) Does the hood of that fat
    \"a\" up there look a bit wonky?\r\n\r\nTo say a nice thing, I love seeing that
    old style eszett on the left side."
  created: '2009-04-07 00:37:31'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "In human history \u201Cstandard\u201D is just a dare. Versions of the bible?
    Definitive director\u2019s cuts of Blade Runner?  "
  created: '2009-04-07 00:44:26'
- author:
    name: stimuli
  body: "Don't forget Parachute's take on DIN \u2013 they tried something a little
    different with their Display version\u2026\r\n\r\nhttp://www.parachute.gr/fonts.aspx\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/2400_PRO_sample_1_5094.gif]<br><br>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/2100_PRO_sample_1_6630.gif]<br><br>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/2200_PRO_sample_1_5489.gif]<br><br>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/2300_PRO_sample_1_5122.gif]<br><br>"
  created: '2009-04-07 01:19:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I first noticed the resurgence of DIN in a <em>Macworld</em> magazine redesign
    in the mid '90s. It also appeared in <em>Fast Company</em> a little later. Pool's
    version (FontFont) came out in '95. The popularity of FF DIN marked a change from
    the grunge/pomo aesthetic towards modernist revival, along with the rehabilitation
    of Helvetica.
  created: '2009-04-07 02:47:08'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Mikey, \r\nnot sure where you're seeing wobbliness; look at the packages
    tab on that page for cleaner images. "
  created: '2009-04-07 06:53:14'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"In human history \u201Cstandard\u201D is just a dare.\"</em>\r\n\r\nTrue,
    probably. I just think it's ironic that a \"standard face\" &ndash; and I use
    the term not in the sense of the font having become a de facto \"standard\" because
    it's so popular or something, but in the sense that it was originally introduced/designed
    as a standard compliant font for certain defined contexts &ndash; is now a starting
    point for so many variations. \r\n\r\nBut I guess that's human. It reminds me
    of how here in Switzerland, the original Swiss Army bicycles have become pretty
    popular, even though they have one gear, they're old, heavy as hell and also uncomfortable.
    But they're cool for some reason, and people buy, mod and paint them. "
  created: '2009-04-07 07:35:35'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "A short legal note:\r\n\r\n1) Trademark\r\n\r\nThe trademark \"DIN\" was
    registered at the German Patent Office in 1920.\r\n\r\nSee the website http://www.din.de,
    where this is said in German: <cite>\"1920 DIN wird als eingetragener Verein beim
    Amtsgericht Berlin gemeldet. Gesch\xE4ftsstelle ist in der Sommerstra\xDFe 4a.
    Das DIN-Zeichen wird als Warenzeichen beim Patentamt registriert.\"</cite>\r\n\r\n2)
    Design\r\n\r\nThe design of the DIN typeface is older than 25 years. Therefore
    according to the German design (\"Geschmacksmuster\") law this typeface design
    is already in public domain.\r\n\r\nI will not be surprised, when I learn that
    another ripoff foundry grabs Linotype's clone and sells it as \"DIN Ultra-Next\".\r\n\r\nBy
    the way:\r\n\r\nFontshop tried to grab the trademark \"DIN\", but did not succeed:\r\n\r\nsee
    www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/FF-DIN-1.jpg\r\n\r\nand www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/FF-DIN-2.pdf\r\n\r\nThe
    above German legal gibberish means that the illegal Fontshop registration of the
    trademark \"DIN\" was annulled by the registration office.\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-07 08:04:08'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "Don't believe anything that Uli posts. He is being dishonest to readers who
    don't read German, by trying to make his points using false translations.\r\n\r\nI
    won't answer to his arguments in detail because arguing with him isn't worth the
    effort."
  created: '2009-04-07 10:56:55'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> Don\u2019t believe anything that Uli posts\r\n\r\nDon't believe anything
    Kutilek posts. As he works for Fontshop, he would get fired, if he admitted that
    Fontshop had to withdraw the invalid registration.\r\n\r\nHere is the English
    text: \"Application withdrawn\":\r\n\r\nsee www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/FF-DIN-1e.jpg\r\n\r\nEven
    Kutilek should be able to understand what this means.\r\n\r\nAnd here is the cancellation
    history in English:\r\n\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/temporary/FF-DIN-2e.pdf\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-07 16:40:49'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "First, \"FF-DIN-1.jpg\" shows that what FS tried to register was a wortmarke
    (word) while what DIN institute had registered was a bildmarke (logo/image).\r\nSecond,
    according to your link/pdf, the DIN institute had objected to FS's registration
    (the \"widerspruch\") so I guess that FS decided to withdraw it (\"anmeldung zur\xFCckgenommen\").
    This however does not make FS's application \"illegal\" as you write, it was just
    not successful. Business as usual.\r\nInteresting though that the DIN institute
    registered the bildmarke but forgot to register the wortmarke, isn't it?\r\n\r\n(I
    am not a lawyer.)"
  created: '2009-04-07 17:39:48'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "As i was the one who asked Albert \"Din\" Pool to design FF DIN back in 1995,
    i need to explain my reasons:\r\nI had noticed a trend to use apocryphal typefaces,
    i.e. those that don't have a designer in the real sense. DIN was designed by a
    committee of engineers, first in the 20s, and then again a few times over the
    years. In the early 60s, G\xFCnter Gerhard Lange from Berthold sat on the DIN
    committee and was responsible for bringing a little more real design into the
    very technical drawings that had been executed using t-squares and compass only.
    You can see the Berthold influence in the S and a few other characters, which
    owe a lot to Akzidenz Grotesk, itself a kind of standard in Germany at the time
    (and sold as Standard in the US).\r\n\r\nThe DIN Mittelschrift as released by
    Adobe/Linotype was a digital version of these rigid engineering drawings. Albert's
    brief was to take the regular weight and subtly make it a good typeface. He did
    it so well that it looks exactly like the original, but much better, especially
    in smaller sizes. Albert also added weights, and that not only made the face usable
    for designers, but also showed that he is a very good type designer. FF DIN looks
    as if DIN had always had those weights because Albert didn't let his ego interfere
    with the job. The new \"old\" design answered the need for a neutral \"undesigned\"
    typeface and has since become a favourite of designers around the world, even
    in places where nobody connects it with the signs on the German Autobahn.\r\n\r\nAkira
    took a different approach because Albert's interpretation of the original in the
    public domain could not be improved. He didn't set out to improve the original,
    but designed his own interpretation. There is no reason why designers shouldn't
    use one as well as the other \u2013 they're different enough."
  created: '2009-04-07 18:26:36'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "k.l.:\r\n\r\n><cite>Business as usual. ... (I am not a lawyer.)</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    don't think that <cite>\"business as usual\"</cite> correctly describes the invalid
    registration of the acronym DIN. Let's assume, American lawyers try to register
    the acronyms USA, CIA and FBI as trademarks. Is this <cite>\"business as usual\"</cite>?
    I think that it is <cite>\"insanity as usual\"</cite> (I am not a psychiatrist).\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-07 18:41:46'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Uli - You seem so keen on getting facts straight, but you refuse to spell
    FontShop correctly. What gives?
  created: '2009-04-07 18:56:00'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "Mr. Stiehl: <em>As he works for Fontshop, he would get fired, if he admitted
    that Fontshop had to withdraw the invalid registration.</em>\r\n\r\nSorry to disappoint
    you, but I cannot possibly admit anything about this, because trademarks are not
    my field of work at FSI.\r\n\r\nNow that you have posted English screenshots,
    you'll surely notice they don't say anything about \"grabbing\" trademarks, \"invalid\"
    or \"illegal registrations\" (whatever that may be), or registrations \"being
    annulled\". Karsten also gave you some hints to \"nuances\" in wording that you
    didn't get right."
  created: '2009-04-07 19:19:29'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Stephen Coles:\r\n\r\n> Uli - You seem so keen on getting facts straight,
    but you refuse to spell FontShop correctly. What gives?\r\n\r\nAt my own site,
    I used your spelling\r\n\r\nsee here www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/barmen.pdf\r\n\r\nand
    see e.g. here www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/sari.pdf\r\n\r\nbut Typophile contributors
    don't care\r\n\r\nsee e.g. here http://www.typophile.com/node/54030"
  created: '2009-04-07 19:29:57'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Kutikek:\r\n\r\n> I won\u2019t answer to his arguments in detail because
    arguing with him isn\u2019t worth the effort.\r\n\r\nStick to what you said."
  created: '2009-04-07 19:32:33'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Uli and Kutikek, there is no judge or jury here and Typophile has no jurisdiction.
    So there's no need to create a case or defend one in these forums. That's all
    I'm going to say on that.\r\n\r\nThanks for the information Erik. And thanks stimuli
    (Joe) for the Parachute version."
  created: '2009-04-07 20:06:28'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"As i was the one who asked Albert \u201CDin\u201D Pool to design FF
    DIN back in 1995, i need to explain my reasons:\"</em>\r\nWow, Erik, this was
    super-enlightening! Thanks a lot for sharing. \r\n\r\nAnd I must say I'm sorry
    I brought up the legalese. :-\\"
  created: '2009-04-07 20:09:16'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: Call me Jens, or Mr Kutilek if you must. Thank you :)
  created: '2009-04-07 20:16:07'
- author:
    name: begsini
    picture: 110929
  body: So, Erik, do you have any thoughts on DIN Next?
  created: '2009-04-07 20:37:31'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "Too expensive!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design\r\nNo man is an
    island unto himself_John Donne\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-07 21:28:21'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "I like Din Next, but it has got the wrong name. Just like ITC Garamond was
    an interesting typeface, but not a Garamond.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-07 21:59:52'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>... but also showed that he is a very good type designer.</cite>\r\n\r\nNot
    to forget the typographic humor expressed in the addition of oldstyle numerals!"
  created: '2009-04-07 23:09:18'
- author:
    name: jmickel
    picture: 111302
  body: "I like the rounded version, but I have to say I think the entire Linotype
    Next series is insane. \r\n\r\nWhy would you spend $1000 on Avenir, Frutiger,
    Optima, and now DIN when you probably already have the perfectly good versions?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-09 02:00:57'
- author:
    name: metaspace
    picture: 115729
  body: "><cite>Why would you spend $1000 on Avenir, Frutiger, Optima, and now DIN
    when you probably already have the perfectly good versions?</cite>\r\n\r\nI'd
    say it's just another business strategy for Linotype to dig some people's deep
    pockets deeper.\r\n\r\nThe black \"a\" in the first picture reminds me of Stag
    Sans while the rounded harks back to a Lineto typeface (I forgot its name).\r\n\r\nJamesZ"
  created: '2009-04-09 05:38:52'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"while the rounded harks back to a Lineto typeface\"</cite>\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.lineto.com/The+Fonts/Font+Categories/Text+Fonts/Gravur+Condensed/\">Gravur
    Condensed</a>?"
  created: '2009-04-09 10:21:58'
- author:
    name: sskylar
  body: "I agree with eriks, its actually a good typeface on its own. \r\n\r\nFor
    those interested, I have posted a history of DIN on my blog: http://www.idsgn.org/posts/know-your-type-din/\r\n\r\nSkylar\r\nhttp://www.idsgn.org"
  created: '2009-04-09 15:43:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Was the original Mittelschrift 1451 entirely composed of straight lines and
    arcs of circles, making it easy for unskilled letter-makers to reproduce the style?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-09 18:53:55'
- author:
    name: Matthew Lujan
    picture: 116280
  body: "\"There is no reason why designers shouldn\u2019t use one as well as the
    other \u2013 they\u2019re different enough . . . I like Din Next, but it has got
    the wrong name.- eriks\r\n\r\n\"Period.\" - M Bierut"
  created: '2009-04-09 22:48:04'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Crossgrove>>> the bowl of the lowercase a hangs a little too low below the
    baseline... looks to chubby/wobbly to me. Inktraps are so so too. \r\n\r\nKobayashi\u2019s
    Axis is much better.\r\n\r\nFF Din is still the standard.\r\n\r\nMikey :-)"
  created: '2009-04-10 03:18:33'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "There is a really good discussion of DIN and its history in \"Made with FontFont\".
    I just happened to have read that very article last week, and I highly recommend
    that people dig it out.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-10 21:37:28'
- author:
    name: alockbox
  body: "Fascinating discussion...\r\n\r\nCan someone please explain to me what the
    difference is between:\r\n\r\nDIN NEXT (25 Fonts from the Linotype Platinum Collection)\r\nDIN
    NEXT LT PRO (25 Fonts)\r\n\r\nThank you"
  created: '2013-04-02 19:03:38'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Hmm, where are you seeing these two product names? Might be some important
    context we're missing. There are many definitions of "Pro". Linotype (like Adobe
    and FontFont) uses it to distinguish products with <a href="http://www.linotype.com/1697-21121/opentypecharactersetsopentypepro.html">extra
    language support</a>, specifically for Central European languages.
  created: '2013-04-03 02:00:10'
- author:
    name: alockbox
  body: "Yes, it appears the Pro indicates language support:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.linotype.com/517415/DINNext-family.html\r\n\r\nI
    can't find details on DIN Next LT Pro, but when I google DIN Next, it's most of
    the links that come up!\r\n \r\nLT could mean Linotype??\r\n\r\nAlso, they apply
    the \"LT\" and \"Pro\" to the actual font name that shows up in the system instead
    of just leaving it as DIN Next? Very confusing!\r\n\r\nAlso, a company a do some
    work for says their font is FF DIN, on their workstation I found a folder labeled
    FF Din Font Family...but...then the actual fonts are named \"DIN Medium\" and
    \"DIN Black\" and \"DIN Alternate Light\"...no FF in sight, and there's 17 not
    20.\r\n\r\nI'm new to discovering and playing with fonts but I love it. Just find
    it to be...messy...a lot more than I'm used to in other areas of design.  "
  created: '2013-04-03 09:46:42'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "<blockquote>the actual fonts are named \"DIN Medium\" and \"DIN Black\" and
    \"DIN Alternate Light\"</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThose are indeed FF DIN fonts. FontFont
    does not append their prefix to the font files."
  children:
  - author:
      name: alockbox
    body: Thank you! I guess I will compare to see what are missing, since they have
      17...
    created: '2013-04-03 12:23:51'
  created: '2013-04-03 10:23:38'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "<blockquote>DIN Round is actually very appropriate to several of the original
    uses of the typeface--where it was \"output\" by Rapidograph pen (in technical
    drawings) or router (e.g. signs \"engraved\" in plastic laminate or stainless
    steel).</blockquote>\r\n\r\n@Nick Shinn: My take is that the \u2018template\u2019
    lettering you talk about is not part of the DIN-family discussed here, but the
    type that is commonly known as Isonorm. (I used the MecaNorma transfer-version
    of that for one of my first letterheads, around 1980.)"
  created: '2013-04-03 11:46:16'
- author:
    name: alockbox
  body: "Thank you everyone, I think I've got things organized now. I found another
    folder that is titled DIN FF (looks like an old school icon).\r\n\r\nBut I have
    one more question... The names. The last guy who was here apparently passed these
    through software to convert them to OpenType TT fonts. It added hyphens in the
    filename as well the actual font data name (whatever that's called).\r\n\r\nIn
    the past, I've experienced issues of \"missing fonts\" on other computers because
    someone along the line had altered font names from the standard.\r\n\r\nCan someone
    who has these please assist me with the correct naming convention for these? Am
    I being too anal? The first set of 5 are \"grouped as DIN while the rest are all
    individual. How should they be grouped? Should I just buy the whole set over again,
    my God what a mess... \r\n\r\nHere's what I have to work with:\r\n\r\nDIN-Black.ttf\r\nDIN-BlackItalic.ttf\r\nDIN-Bold.ttf\r\nDIN-BoldItalic.ttf\r\nDIN-Light.ttf\r\nDIN-LightItalic.ttf\r\nDIN-Medium.ttf\r\nDIN-MediumItalic.ttf\r\nDIN-Regular.ttf\r\nDIN-RegularItalic.ttf\r\nDINCond-Black.ttf\r\nDINCond-Bold.ttf\r\nDINCond-Light.ttf\r\nDINCond-Medium.ttf\r\nDINCond-Regular.ttf\r\n\r\nThank
    you!"
  created: '2013-04-03 14:44:39'
- author:
    name: Albert Jan Pool
    picture: 111860
  body: "<strong>completeness</strong>\r\nThat makes 15 fonts I\u2019d say. Nothing
    is really missing although you also might want to have the 5 weights of  [[http://http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FF_DIN|FF
    DIN]] Condensed italic, as well as the 5 weights of [[http://http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FF_DIN|FF
    DIN]] Round which were added in 2009 and 2010 respectively. Provided that the
    software you are working with supports stylistic alternates (like InDesign, Illustrator
    etc.) one could consider to buy the OpenType versions to have automatic access
    to all alternates simultaneously as well as all four sets of figures.\r\n\r\n<strong>Font
    names</strong> \r\nAdvice on how to name the fonts is an expert issue. What you
    need basically depends on how the font software you are using supports the input
    of names into the OpenType format, what names (and/or styles) your applications
    support and how you would like to handle italic, bold and bold italic (basically
    through style buttons or through the menu together with the other weights). The
    OpenType format allows an additional level of grouping weights into font families.
    FontFont TrueType.ttf and OpenType.otf behave differently when it comes to names
    and styles. \r\nThree points of concern:\r\n\u2013 I am not shure wether your
    license allows you to convert these fonts into another format.\r\n\u2013 Your
    way of renaming the fonts might be incompatible with later additions such as condensed
    italic weights or future additions to the family.\r\n\u2013 Font conversion may
    have resulted in corrupt data (name tables, missing kerning pairs, characters
    with corrupted or missing encoding.\r\n\r\n<strong>FF DIN vs DIN Next / Garamond
    vs ITC Garamond / etc.</strong>\r\nI support Erik\u2019s view on DIN Next. DIN
    Next is to DIN what ITC Garamond is to the original typefaces by Garamond. Rather
    soft, round, not really faithful to the original. To take this a little further:
    PF DIN is to DIN what Monotype Garamond is to the original typefaces by Garamond.
    As if seen through someone else\u2019s glasses (mine/Jean Jannon\u2019s), many
    funny details that have nothing to do with the original as well as a missing design
    for \u2013 resp. a strange view on \u2013 what is needed for smaller sizes.\r\n\r\n<strong>to
    Nick (DIN for engraving)</strong>\r\nAlphabets for engraving have been a substantial
    part of the DIN 1451 standard from the very beginning. It seems that comittee
    originally intended to create one design which could then be executed in different
    media. Probably due to having to live with what was already available (the Prussian
    Railways typeface and various typefaces for engraving machines) this goal was
    never really achieved. On the other hand, it is likely that DIN Mittelschrift
    (for which it seems that there was no Prussian Railway template was available)
    has been based on the Normograph lettering style by Georg Bahr (not to be confused
    with the architect with the same name). Read [[http://issuu.com/fontfont/docs/ff_din_round|FF
    DIN Round \u2013 digital block letters]] for more information on this subject.\r\nThe
    Isonorm 3069 typeface has been designed in such a way that it could easily be
    made fit for single-line engraving (hence the rounded stroke ends). The design
    of Isonorm 3096 has nothing to with the typefaces of DIN 1451 though.\r\n\r\n<strong>DIN
    Schriften typeface package</strong>\r\nThe typeface package by Linotype / Adobe
    not only contains DIN Engschrift and DIN Mittelschrift, which more or less resemble
    the version of DIN 1451-2 from 1980 (including the wrong interpretation of lowercase
    of DIN Engschrift which has the bowl of the a starting with a curve, which is
    a clear mistake). The other two typefaces in that package are DIN Neuzeit Grotesk
    light and DIN Neuzeit Grotesk bold condensed. These are adaptations of Neuzeit
    Grotesk which were proposed as a model for lettering on industrial products through
    DIN 30640. It is likely that Siemens has been behind this because they have been
    using Neuzeit Grotesk in their corporate design from the 1930ties until the 1970ties.
    DIN 30640 has been withdrawn because it lacked acceptance within the industry.\r\n\r\n<strong>Licensing
    DIN 1451?</strong>\r\nThe [[http://www.din.de|DIN institute]] does not act like
    a type foundry that sells fonts or licenses designs. When it comes to DIN 1451
    they only sell the standard sheets. As a result, manufacturers such as Berthold,
    Bitstream, Linotype, Adobe and URW as well as many suppliers of foil-cutting,
    embossing and engraving machines (used to) produce their own drawings, templates,
    stencils and digital data. Seen in this perspective, no typefoundry or manufacturer
    ever licensed the \u2018original\u2019 DIN typeface. It is the various versions
    designed / produced / marketed by the various designers / manufacturers / foundries
    which may each be subject to copyright / trade mark laws and other legal issues."
  created: '2013-06-03 10:54:43'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '@alockbox: Do you still plan on making it open-source?'
  created: '2013-06-03 13:00:53'
date: '2009-04-05 14:52:04'
title: Any thoughts on  DIN Next?

---
