---
author:
  name: dinelen
body: Hi all <BR>I just upgraded my system to xp from win 98 se. The thing is i work
  with quark xpress and i use certain fonts that when i close them for print with
  my distiller 5 they come out as jiberish. can anyone help me out this is giving
  me a headacke.  <BR>thanx, H
comments:
- author:
    name: xensen
    picture: 109967
  body: I recently had a similar problem with an older type 1 font on both XP and
    Win 2000, although the font was fine in Windows 98. All the systems ran Quark
    4.1, and in my case it was not a Quark problem, because I got the same result
    with other programs and because Quark could handle the font properly on the older
    system. The problem was with an Adobe font &#40;and just one weight and style&#41;
    and I ended up having to replace it with the new open type version. Hope you have
    better luck.
  created: '2004-07-08 18:47:30'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: Tom,  <BR> <BR><i>Hope you have better luck.</i> <BR> <BR>Probably nothing
    to do with luck. <BR> <BR>I think that&#39;s how Adobe &#34;now&#34; makes money
    on fonts. This Open Type is a bad thing.
  created: '2004-07-08 19:00:03'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Adobe has not done anything to make Type 1 fonts not work or work badly in
    newer operating systems. Although some day support for Type 1 fonts will doubtless
    be phased out, that is years away. <BR> <BR>Guy might want to post his Distiller
    problem on Adobe&#39;s user forum for Acrobat &#60;<a href="http://www.adobe.com/support/forums/main.html"
    target="_blank">http://www.adobe.com/support/forums/main.html</a>&#62;. More details
    will be needed, such as what fonts, and what he means by &#34;close them for print
    with Distiller 5.&#34; <BR> <BR>Tom&#39;s problem I think I saw referenced before,
    but I didn&#39;t have any insight. Again, more details would be helpful. What
    was the exact font? What exactly went wrong? <BR> <BR>Regards, <BR> <BR>T <BR>
    <BR>Thomas Phinney <BR>Program Manager <BR>Fonts &amp; Core Technologies <BR>Adobe
    Systems
  created: '2004-07-08 19:18:43'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: Thomas, <BR> <BR>I think fonts are getting far more complex than they need
    be. I would rather design then become &#34;Doctor MacGeek&#34; analysing self
    made technical glitches caused by &#34;quasi-speak improvements&#34;. Look what
    happened to the Edsel? <a href="http://edsel.net/" target="_blank">http://edsel.net/</a>
    <BR> <BR>Make sense. Old works, new does not
  created: '2004-07-08 19:42:04'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: Thomas, <BR> <BR><b>&#34;quasi-speak improvements&#34;</b> <BR> <BR><i>&#34;Thanks
    to OpenType and related initiatives, users will be freed from worries over conflicting
    formats.&#34;</i>   <BR><a href="http://www.creativepro.com/story/feature/6503.html"
    target="_blank">http://www.creativepro.com/story/feature/6503.html</a> <BR> <BR><b>And
    Reality</b> <BR> <BR>Tom Christensen&#39;s words follow. <BR> <BR><i>The problem
    was with an Adobe font &#40;and just one weight and style&#41; and I ended up
    having to replace it with the new open type version.</i> <BR> <BR>I think that&#39;s
    how Adobe &#34;now&#34; makes money on fonts. &#34;Format conflicts.&#34; <BR>
    <BR>Open Type is the &#34;Great Typographical White Elephant!&#34; <BR> <BR>
  created: '2004-07-08 20:06:57'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'I disagree. I have had problems making PDFs out of Quark 4.1 using fonts
    from other foundries. My solution was to save them as earlier version of PDF.
    <BR> <BR>There are far too many different things that can cause fonts to go wacky.
    The foundry is not one of them. '
  created: '2004-07-08 20:13:50'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: Tiffany, <BR> <BR>Thomas says. &#34;Although some day support for Type 1 fonts
    will doubtless be phased out, that is years away.&#34; <BR> <BR><b>Notice that
    Thomas says that support for Type 1 will be doubtless phased out.</b> <BR> <BR>You
    are correct, it is not the foundry, it is the &#34;application developers&#34;.
    Ask Thomas &#34;exactly how many years?&#34; <BR> <BR>Think about it, there is
    nothing wrong with type 1 fonts. The only people that can make something wrong
    with them is those that &#34;break them&#34;
  created: '2004-07-08 21:04:16'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: The issue with font format support primarily has OS vendors, not application
    vendors, calling the shots. I can&#39;t tell you how long Type 1 fonts will be
    viable, because &#40;even if I knew&#41; I can&#39;t say when Apple and/or Microsoft
    might choose to drop support for them. I just think it&#39;s worth keeping in
    mind that neither company has much affection for Type 1. <BR> <BR>Beyond that,
    Gerald&#39;s nasty insinuations seem almost contradictory at times. Apparently
    problems creating PDFs from QuarkXPress 4.1 are some sort of deliberate Adobe
    plot against its opposition, while similar problems with PageMaker are incompetence?
    <BR> <BR>Beyond that, I&#39;m not going to dignify Gerald&#39;s comments with
    responses. I expect they are based in reality in the sense that they doubtless
    stem from actual problems people have had &#40;though never described by Gerald
    in enough detail to allow an answer&#41;, but his insinuations about them being
    deliberate plans by Adobe are unfounded paranoia. <BR> <BR>If somebody has a specific
    problem, and wants to talk about it and see if it can be resolved, I&#39;m happy
    to go there. Maybe they can get the folks who just want to rant to go start another
    thread. <BR> <BR>Sigh. <BR> <BR>T
  created: '2004-07-08 21:39:03'
- author:
    name: nigelh
  body: The problem lies with Quark not keeping up with technology and when they do
    release an &#34;update&#34; it is a nightmare. <BR> <BR>Why are so many people
    still using version 3 and 4? <BR> <BR>Nigel
  created: '2004-07-08 21:58:34'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Heh. <BR> <BR>I meant a problem with making something work that involves font
    technology, such as the two messages that started this thread--not just another
    complaint. <BR> <BR>One could just as easily ask, why are so many people still
    using Illustrator 8? One rather suspects that they found it did all the things
    they needed, and that the new features were not sufficiently compelling. Perhaps
    many of them are running older hardware or OSes as well; upgrading would mean
    upgrading everything, and that gets expensive. Like Gerald, they have the attitude
    that &#34;it ain&#39;t broke, so why fix it?&#34; <BR> <BR>Generally, at some
    point the incremental advantages of the newest version will get large enough to
    entice these folks. It&#39;s just a question of when. Perhaps they will find themselves
    with more reason to upgrade when they replace old hardware, or when a client complains
    about lacking capabilities in their work. <BR> <BR>T
  created: '2004-07-08 22:56:10'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: Thomas, <BR> <BR>I see your frustration is almost equal to my own. Speaking
    of ranting, threatening Nick and what not with lawsuits. <BR> <BR>Well
  created: '2004-07-08 23:02:36'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: Thomas, <BR> <BR><i>Like Gerald, they have the attitude that &#34;it ain&#39;t
    broke, so why fix it?&#34;</i> <BR> <BR><b>If it ain&#39;t broke, don&#39;t break
    it.</b> <BR>
  created: '2004-07-08 23:09:22'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: '&#62; Speaking of ranting, threatening Nick and what not with lawsuits. <BR>
    <BR>That is a lie--although as usual you have made your accusation harder to rebut
    by making it as vague as possible &#40;&#34;and what not&#34;&#41;. <BR> <BR>The
    other quote you keep on citing was written by some random writer. Not me, nor
    by anyone directly associated with OpenType or with a good understanding of it.
    Should I hold Quark responsible for your statements about what QuarkXPress is
    capable of? <BR> <BR>As for Tom&#39;s problem, I asked some questions, which have
    not yet been answered. I&#39;ll probably ask more questions. That&#39;s how one
    troubleshoots things. Your random rants have not aided him one bit. <BR> <BR>&#62;
    I thought Quark could not handle &#34;Open Type Fonts&#34;. What&#39;s that about?
    Lots of secrets going on. <BR> <BR>So secret that they are clearly explained in
    the OpenType User Guide. <a href="http://www.adobe.com/type/opentype" target="_blank">http://www.adobe.com/type/opentype</a>
    , link on the right. Basically almost all applications work with OpenType fonts,
    it&#39;s just a question of whether they support Unicode, and whether they support
    the added typographic functionality of OpenType. <BR> <BR>&#62; Furthermore the
    &#34;big gains&#34; in Open Type&#34; are illusionary see original sales pitch.  <BR>
    <BR>See my previous comment. <BR> <BR>The big gains in OpenType are the option
    of  extended language support &#40;compared to Type 1, anyway&#41;, cross-platform
    single-file fonts, and advanced typographic features. <BR> <BR>You don&#39;t have
    to care about any of these, and that&#39;s fine. However, all the large type foundries,
    most of the medium sized ones and many of the small ones are actively developing
    OpenType fonts. <BR> <BR>Moreover, whatever Tom&#39;s problem is, it certainly
    has nothing to do with &#34;conflicting font formats.&#39; <BR> <BR>In fact, &#34;conflicting
    font formats&#34; has NEVER been a problem outside of Apple&#39;s short-lived
    GX universe. GX aside, formats per se don&#39;t have conflicts. Font NAMES may
    conflict and cause big problems, but that&#39;s independent of format. <BR> <BR>Later,
    <BR> <BR>T'
  created: '2004-07-08 23:21:30'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: True Statement. Font formats cannot do not conflict. What do conflict are
    font ID numbers. Also problematic are fonts that are old. I recently ran my fonts
    through font doctor. Gerald, your fonts had errors just like any other foundries.
    But, perhaps Font Doctor makes mountains out of molehills. <BR> <BR>Opentype is
    a wonderful thing. However, I still use PS1 fonts because I still use Quark ...
    and I also think Suitcase has trouble when I activate too many Opentype at once.
    BUT that isn&#39;t an OpenType problem, I think it is a Suitcase problem because
    Suitcase chokes when I activate too many PS1 fonts too.
  created: '2004-07-08 23:33:19'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Font ID numbers can also conflict. <BR> <BR>UniqueIDs and XUIDs &#40;in Type
    1 and related formats only&#41; need to be genuinely unique, else you can have
    printing problems. However, these may safely be omitted entirely. It&#39;s only
    duplicates that clash. <BR> <BR>FOND IDs &#40;Mac only&#41; can also conflict,
    but the Mac OS automatically resolves such conflicts on the fly in memory, and
    has done so for about a decade or so now &#40;starting around OS 7-point-something&#41;.
    I know some tools warn about FOND ID conflicts, but there is genuinely no reason
    to worry about &#34;fixing&#34; them. <BR> <BR>Regards, <BR> <BR>T
  created: '2004-07-08 23:43:10'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Right, that is what I meant ... FOND id ... <BR> <BR>With OS X the font management
    software is ... I&#39;ve noticed ... much more sensitive to problems. <BR> <BR>I
    have also had momentary glitches with fonts. One minute it isn&#39;t working and
    so I restart the computer and it is.
  created: '2004-07-08 23:50:16'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: Tiffany, <BR> <BR>Font Doctor does nothing for the really important errors.  <BR>
    <BR>Do you know what those are? <BR> <BR>
  created: '2004-07-08 23:52:25'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I don&#39;t know. But I was only trying to illustrate the fact that fonts
    ... all fonts .... are imperfect and liable to have problems. And perhaps it isn&#39;t
    even the fonts themselves, but the way our systems are set up &#40;each one of
    us must have altered one setting and so all of our systems run differently&#41;
    which causes the problems.
  created: '2004-07-09 00:04:16'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: Thomas <BR> <BR><i>&#40;in Type 1 and related formats only&#41;</i> <BR> <BR>I
    recall problems with Type 3.
  created: '2004-07-09 00:05:38'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I have to say that the smartest foundry out there, right now, is House Industries
    and any others who give the person of their typefaces all available. Let the user
    decide what format they need it in. House Industries must realize that some people
    are still using Quark &#40;etc&#41; and need PS1 but also realize they have users
    who want instant access to all of their lovely alternates. <BR> <BR>I can&#39;t
    believe this is even a topic of discussion. <BR> <BR>Someone just told me &#40;off-line,
    over ichat&#41; that they knew of people with problem fonts but he/she said that
    it was probably because they had been copied and moved so many times.
  created: '2004-07-09 00:10:16'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: '&#62; I have to say that the smartest foundry out there, right now, is House
    &#62; Industries and any others who give the person of their typefaces all &#62;
    available. <BR> <BR>Oops. Of course I meant: <BR> <BR>.. the smartest foundry
    out there, right now, is ... who give the person who licenses their typefaces
    ...'
  created: '2004-07-09 00:14:16'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: 'Tiffany, <BR> <BR>Our fonts were made in the pioneering days of desktop publishing.
    The older ones I am speaking of. Caslon Oldstyle 337 for instance. <a href="http://lanstontype.com/CaslonFountEight.html"
    target="_blank">http://lanstontype.com/CaslonFountEight.html</a> <BR> <BR>We were
    not like Adobe making $180,000,000. per year. [Approximately 1987-8.] <BR> <BR>What
    Lanston was making was perfect outlines in IK format. We produced small capitals
    both in roman and italic, ligatures, tied ct, st&#39;s swash, the long s with
    their ligatures, SCOSF, oldstyle figures, lining figures, short and long descenders.
    I should remind you these were not after thoughts. <BR> <BR>Our written policy
    was &#34;not&#34; to treat our customers like amateurs. Because of that '
  created: '2004-07-09 01:15:25'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: What?! What does optical scaling have to do with opentype? I can see that
    optical scaling could be a feature of opentype, but what does optical scaling
    have to do with someone having problems with a typeface?! I can see that optical
    scaling is a good feature. Any typographer would appreciate that. I licensed ITC
    Bodoni because it is available in different optical sizes. But why piss on &#40;excuse
    my unlady-like term&#41; on opentype? If a foundry chooses not to do PS1 anymore
    that is their choice. Yes, past customers will have problems with this choice.
    Yes, perhaps Adobe will hit a snag. But, why piss on the technology? If you don&#39;t
    wish to make opentype that is ok too. I don&#39;t license type by the format I
    license type by how it looks and is it something I need for a job ... and then
    I question format. If it is a job in Quark &#40;etc&#41; then obviously I can&#39;t
    license Opentype, but that is the only program I use with the problem. <BR> <BR>Kudos
    for having offered optical scaling. But not every job needs optically scaled type.
    <BR> <BR>Kudos for being so stalwart toward PS1. <BR> <BR>But the time and energy
    you are putting into attempting to get people to boycott opentype could be spent
    in creating more type.
  created: '2004-07-09 01:26:18'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: Tiffany, <BR> <BR><i>But not every job needs optically scaled type.</i> <BR>
    <BR>I assumed you understood I was speaking of text, not posters, or bill boards.
    Sorry, my mistake, I should have made myself more clear. <BR> <BR>Look, I don&#39;t
    think you know what optical scaling is about. Never having had it you simply don&#39;t
    know what you are missing. <BR> <BR>I just love cliches. <BR> <BR>Optical scaling
    is very important. I am not sure if you followed, but I am not the only one interested.
    <BR> <BR>I am sure you remember &#34;Ink Traps&#34;. <BR> <BR>Some of the most
    typographically tuned contributors have had lengthy discussions about it. Names,
    Kent Lew, John Hudson, Gerald Lange and my good friend Hrant. In fact Hrant and
    I do not agree on much. Optical scaling is one of them. <BR> <BR>Forget optical
    sizes in type. That is strictly boutique font material. For instance &#34;Founders
    Caslon&#34;. <BR> <BR>Optical sizes can arrive at the same look, I agree. But
    it is not the same solution. So this is just a smoke screen. <BR> <BR>Optical
    scaling is just what it says, scaling-on-the-fly, you pick a point size in the
    menu. It is the same font, not some separate pick. Font menus are confusing enough.
    <BR> <BR>Think of it this way. If you were going to insist as Hrant does that
    points are too crude and fonts should be in fraction of points your mouse will
    have to go down through a hole in your floor to pick your point size. For that
    matter what if you pick the wrong font for the point size? Are you suggesting
    it would be elegant to eliminate scaled fonts altogether. <BR> <BR>You like bitmaps?
    That&#39;s all you would need. <BR> <BR>So what do you see as elegant. <BR> <BR>Thomas
    told me in the Open Type Forum, that optical scaling would never, ever be part
    of the Open Type Format. So what is your take on that. <BR> <BR>Before you answer
    I want to remind you of something you said about Albertan by Jim Rimmer. You said
    it was tooooo sparkly at small point sizes. Well if you say that you have already
    move well beyond agreement that optical scaling is important. So please do not
    decide against agreeing with me, just because it is me.  <BR> <BR>Anyway if you
    do, I obviously have nothing to teach you.
  created: '2004-07-09 02:35:16'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: Tiffany, <BR> <BR>One important thing I did not mention. My fear is that Type
    1 will go the way of Type 3. So I think that font developers have not choice.
    This is why this issue bothers me so much. <BR> <BR>Sorry if I seem cranky about
    it. <BR>
  created: '2004-07-09 02:46:41'
- author:
    name: xensen
    picture: 109967
  body: Eesh. I&#39;m kind of sorry I spoke up. My problem was with univers 45 italic,
    in which the right side of the W was cut off in recent versions of Windows &#40;XP
    and 2000&#41;. I suppose it was some issue with the inf or pfm file &#40;which
    came straight off the font folio CD&#41; relative to the newer versions of Windows.
    <BR> <BR>But I&#39;m not blaming Adobe because when the font was created XP and
    2000 didn&#39;t exist, and I don&#39;t see how they can be held responsible for
    all its vagaries. Nor was the problem with Quark, because the font also didn&#39;t
    display correctly in ATM. &#40;My thread about the problem was called something
    like &#34;univers font problem,&#34; but no one had any thoughts to offer.&#41;
    <BR> <BR>It was frustrating but I think it&#39;s more of a Windows problem than
    anything. If I had stayed at Windows 98 I would have been fine. <BR> <BR>Just
    hope it doesn&#39;t start happening with all my fonts ... or shouldn&#39;t I mention
    that?
  created: '2004-07-09 02:47:50'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: Tiffany, <BR> <BR>&#34;Quark &#40;etc&#41; then obviously I can&#39;t license
    Opentype&#34; <BR> <BR>Apparantly Thomas addressed this to me when he should have
    addressed this to you. <BR> <BR>&#34;So secret that they are clearly explained
    in the OpenType User Guide. <a href="http://www.adobe.com/type/opentype" target="_blank">http://www.adobe.com/type/opentype</a>
    , link on the right. Basically almost all applications work with OpenType fonts,
    it&#39;s just a question of whether they support Unicode, and whether they support
    the added typographic functionality of OpenType.&#34; <BR> <BR>Sneaky buggers.
  created: '2004-07-09 03:08:15'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: 'Tom: <BR> <BR>Right, I remember that problem now. <BR> <BR>I have been giving
    it some thought, and I suspect it is a problem with Windows GDI using the ATM
    driver that is built into Windows &#40;2000 and later&#41;, when dealing with
    synthetic obliques. My guess is that GDI isn&#39;t realizing that it has to allow
    for the fact that the fontmatrix has been slanted, changing the effective bounding
    box of the glyph, when it decides how much space to reserve for drawing the pixels
    onscreen. <BR> <BR>So, by this theory, it would be a Windows bug. <BR> <BR>Some
    readers may wonder what the heck a synthetic oblique and a fontmatrix are. If
    you want the full technical explanation of the gobbledygook, keep reading....
    <BR> <BR>Type 1 fonts were originally developed to be built into output devices
    back in the early to mid 80s, when printer memory &#40;ROM or even RAM&#41; to
    store fonts was in short supply. So Adobe came up with the notion of having &#34;synthetic&#34;
    fonts that were just transformations of an initial font, and could refer to the
    original font and take up hardly any space. This was mostly used for oblique versions
    of some sans serifs, although it&#39;s also responsible for the horrid Helvetica
    Narrow, which was just regular Helvetica mathematically condensed by 18% &#40;if
    memory serves&#41;. The &#34;transformation matrix&#34; is the bit of a Type 1
    font that specifies any slanting or scaling of the outlines. It&#39;s in the header
    portion of the font, so it&#39;s plain text if you crack it open in a word processor
    or hex editor. <BR> <BR>So, why does this matter for fonts on your computer instead
    of in a PostScript printer? Well, when making the computer-based version of the
    font, it was done the same way, except that the base font would be replicated,
    as well as having the transformation matrix applied. So the outlines for Univers
    Oblique in Type 1 are actually identical to the outlines for plain old Univers;
    the only difference is that transformation matrix specifying the slant. <BR> <BR>Thus
    the theory that maybe Windows wasn&#39;t being quite smart enough to take that
    into account. It probably only affects cases where the transformation matrix is
    sufficient to stick something out past the end of the advance width of the glyph,
    mostly glyphs that are rendering right near the top right... like the cap W. <BR>
    <BR>PostScript flavored OpenType fonts also support this same stuff. But when
    converting the Adobe Type Library to OpenType, besides the big stuff, we did a
    lot of minor improvements to how the fonts were built. One of them was to eliminate
    the synthetic font transformations using the fontmatrix, and instead change the
    actual font outlines. <BR> <BR>So, if the Type 1 font has the problem, and the
    OpenType doesn&#39;t, well, given everything else, that sure seems like the probably
    culprit. It would be possible to fix the problem on the Windows side by fixing
    their bug, or by rebuilding the font to not use the synthetic oblique. <BR> <BR>Regards,
    <BR> <BR>T'
  created: '2004-07-09 03:47:34'
- author:
    name: pablohoney77
    picture: 109996
  body: <i>Optical sizes can arrive at the same look, I agree.</i> <BR>It may be a
    different solution, but if the outcome is the same, why does it matter if the
    craftsman typographer has to switch fonts every now and again when the size changes?
    <BR>One would think that a type founder would welcome a system that allows him
    or her to sell more fonts? Maybe that&#39;s just the capitalist in me coming out
    tho... go ahead and fault me for that. <BR> <BR><i>It is the same font, not some
    separate pick. Font menus are confusing enough.</i> <BR>If I am correct on this...
    originally in the days of metal type each point size was a separate font, right?
    I don&#39;t see why we should complain about scrolling down a simple menu &#40;don&#39;t
    know what&#39;s so confusing about that&#41; rather than lugging out a big case
    of lead just to change the point size. Personaly, I&#39;d rather switch fonts
    for size than when i want small caps or OSF or alternates or expert ligatures,
    etc. etc.  <BR> <BR>I think OpenType is pretty cool, and I avoid using Quark whenever
    I don&#39;t have to. If you want, Gerald, I&#39;ll add some OT features to yer
    fonts for you... for free! ;^&#41;
  created: '2004-07-09 03:53:30'
- author:
    name: xensen
    picture: 109967
  body: 'Thomas: I&#39;m pretty sure that is indeed the right answer to my particular
    problem. The font in question is a synthetic oblique &#40;it looks roman in FontLab&#41;
    and the problem is with the bounding box. I suspect that if I did a really careful
    study I might find slight problems with other glyphs besides the W. I&#39;m happy
    to hear that the new version &#40;whatever its format&#41; uses actual font outlines,
    and I&#39;m happy with this solution. <BR>'
  created: '2004-07-09 04:10:32'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: 'Gerald, please provide a direct quote to back up your latest lie: <BR> <BR>&#34;Thomas
    told me in the Open Type &#40;sic&#41; Forum, that optical scaling would never,
    ever be part of the Open Type &#40;sic&#41; Format. So what is your take on that.&#34;
    <BR> <BR>To the best of my recollection, and based on my reviewing of my posts
    in that forum going back to July of 2000, I do not believe I ever said any such
    thing. Do you have an actual message that I wrote, which you interpret as saying
    such a thing? If so, please provide it. <BR> <BR>In any case, optical sizes, as
    discrete designs for specific point size ranges, are already part of OpenType.
    The framework was specifically designed to allow the fonts to be automatically
    selected without showing individual size-specific fonts in the font menu. Apps
    have not yet supported this mechanism, but the infrastructure is part of OpenType,
    and has been for years. <BR>See &#60;<a href="http://partners.adobe.com/asn/tech/type/opentype/appendices/features_pt.jsp#size"
    target="_blank">http://partners.adobe.com/asn/tech/type/opentype/appendices/features_pt.jsp#size</a>&#62;.
    <BR> <BR>This has been pointed out to you before, Gerald. Yet you continue to
    make misleading statements about what is and is not possible in OpenType. I&#39;m
    sorry you don&#39;t like the newer technology, yet I am not disturbed by your
    irrational prognostications. It&#39;s the demonstrably false claims and absurd
    innuendoes that bother me. <BR> <BR>It is true that continuous optical scaling,
    as was possible with MMs and some proprietary implementations in Type 3, is not
    feasible in OpenType as OpenType does not support axis-based fonts. Some folks
    have claimed that one could accomplish it with TrueType hinting, but I believe
    that is so impractical as to be virtually impossible. <BR> <BR>Even in this latter
    area, I do not recall ever saying that axis based technology would &#34;never,
    ever&#34; be part of the OpenType format. In fact, I would not be totally shocked
    if some day in the distant future some sort of axis based technology returned
    to OpenType. I just won&#39;t hold my breath, as it certainly won&#39;t be any
    time soon. <BR> <BR>T'
  created: '2004-07-09 04:38:41'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: 'Tom: <BR> <BR>Glad to hear that you are happy enough with the solution you
    found. Sorry you had a problem in the first place. <BR> <BR>This is a good example
    of one of the many ways in which the implementations of older technologies can
    sometimes be more complex than the newer ones, because of the large layers of
    crud accumulated as old tech gets adapted to things beyond its original design.
    <BR> <BR>Cheers, <BR> <BR>T'
  created: '2004-07-09 04:54:04'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: 'Thomas <BR> <BR><i>Gerald, please provide a direct quote to back up your
    latest lie: </i> <BR> <BR>Thomas I am not going to address this. <BR> <BR>You
    understand.  <BR> <BR>I recall you calling Hrant a liar also. That is no way tor
    speak to a customer. If you worked for me you would be looking at a pink slip.'
  created: '2004-07-09 05:45:14'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Of course I understand. You can&#39;t provide evidence to support your claim,
    so you&#39;ll resort to other kinds of attacks to divert attention from the falsehood.
    It&#39;s often an effective tactic. <BR> <BR>I will admit that my frustration
    level grows when people make absurd, false claims. Even more so when they make
    apparently false claims about things I have said. I had actually gone and edited
    my message prior to posting it to try to remove the more inflammatory comments,
    but unfortunately I missed the word &#34;lie&#34; in the opening line. It was
    excessive. I can imagine that I may have at some point said something which you
    could have misinterpreted to mean what you claim I said. That&#39;s why I&#39;d
    like to see what it is I wrote that you think supports the claim. I took the time
    to do my homework to try to find a statement that could have been interpreted
    that way, somehow, and found nothing that I posted in the last four years &#40;which
    is as far back as my email archive goes, unfortunately&#41;. <BR> <BR>I did find
    a statement from Paul Nelson of Microsoft saying something to the effect that
    Multiple Masters were dead in OpenType and weren&#39;t coming back. Perhaps that&#39;s
    what you were thinking of? However, please note that I am not Paul Nelson. <BR>
    <BR>As for my job security, I am not overly worried. About the worst thing that
    I could see happening is that I might get told to quit hanging out and posting
    so much in public forums. That would give me more time for real work, and would
    not be such a great loss for me. <BR> <BR>T
  created: '2004-07-09 06:52:40'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: Thomas, <BR> <BR>Speaking of innuendo? <BR> <BR>
  created: '2004-07-09 07:19:12'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: Gerald, are you missing Hrant?
  created: '2004-07-09 07:27:02'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: Thomas, <BR> <BR><i>I did find a statement from Paul Nelson of Microsoft saying
    something to the effect that Multiple Masters were dead in OpenType and weren&#39;t
    coming back. Perhaps that&#39;s what you were thinking of? However, please note
    that I am not Paul Nelson.</i> <BR> <BR>This is possible. As you know I have a
    terrible memory for names, yours has been particularly difficult. <BR> <BR>However,
    all the same, it is not a lie. I still think it was you but if not I am sorry.
    In any event it does not make me a liar. It just makes me  bad with names.  Even
    &#34;Open Type &#40;sic&#41;&#34;. <BR> <BR>But as you can see your memory is
    not too good either. <BR> <BR>&#62; Speaking of ranting, threatening Nick and
    what not with lawsuits.  <BR> <BR>You understand. <BR> <BR>So don&#39;t call the
    kettle black. <BR>
  created: '2004-07-09 07:30:52'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: H
  created: '2004-07-09 07:33:12'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Gerald, every time I call you on one of your false statements, you change
    the subject. Nice try, but it doesn&#39;t wash. <BR> <BR>As for my comment on
    competition in the type industry, I was simply saying that nobody has ever made
    a statement like the famous one attributed to Microsoft about Netscape. If you
    were unfamiliar with it, do a Google search for &#34;microsoft netscape air supply&#34;
    and see what comes up. <BR> <BR>You keep on trying to read between the lines of
    my statements to find some innuendo in my comments to Nick. The thing is, I meant
    exactly what I said, no more and no less. Anybody who knows me well can tell you
    that. It&#39;s folks like you who argue with insinuation and implications, but
    that&#39;s not my style. <BR> <BR>So, let&#39;s see, according to you, it&#39;s
    not okay to actually call you out on things you say that aren&#39;t true, and
    of course it wouldn&#39;t be okay to sue you for libel, either. So I guess the
    virtuous path is to just let you say false things and not contradict them? <BR>
    <BR>Nope. If you claim I said something that I never said, and the statement you
    are wrongfully attributing to me is in fact the opposite of what I have said and
    believe, then I am going to call you out on it. <BR> <BR>One last time, for the
    record, I do NOT think and have never suggested that any font-bundling application
    vendor should sue Nick for libel--but I was concerned that he might have opened
    himself up to such activity. I also have NEVER WRITTEN that &#34;optical scaling
    would never, ever be part of the OpenType format.&#34; <BR> <BR>Then there are
    all the untrue statements you&#39;ve made about OpenType itself, but those were
    already dealt with. So I&#39;ll shut up now, until/unless you say something else
    that is blatantly false about things I&#39;ve said or have worked on. <BR> <BR>Cheers,
    <BR> <BR>T
  created: '2004-07-09 07:51:13'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: Nick posts in response. <BR>
  created: '2004-07-09 08:52:15'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: Paul, <BR> <BR><i>&#34;If I am correct on this... originally in the days of
    metal type each point size was a separate font, right? I don&#39;t see why we
    should complain about scrolling down a simple menu.&#34;</i> <BR> <BR>The size
    was the same but the optical scaling was built in. So picking the size was identical
    in both cases. Picking a different face, or size representation was built in with
    hot metal. In other words you could not pick a 6 point size and confuse it with
    a 36 pt. size. The difficulty is self explanatory. <BR> <BR>However there seems
    to be some good news. Thomas says there may be an equal solution in Open Type
    &#40;sic&#41;  <BR> <BR>The optical scaling tools, MM technology however, is obsolete.  <BR>
    <BR>Thomas mentions there may be application &#34;lack of support&#34;. Predictably
    he is correct. <BR> <BR>I am of the opinion that optical scaling should be on-the-fly.  Not
    likely to happen. <BR> <BR>
  created: '2004-07-09 09:14:03'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: 'Complaints department: <BR> <BR>I quote myself. I just love it when I can
    do that. <BR> <BR><i>&#34;Optical scaling is just what it says, scaling-on-the-fly,
    you pick a point size in the menu.&#34;</i> <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2004-07-09 18:19:05'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: 'Paul Nelson is a Microsoft employee, not an Adobe employee and certainly
    not an Adobe spokesperson. I am not, and have never been, Paul Nelson. Is that
    clear enough? <BR> <BR>Although I may have more hope that something like MM might
    return some day, in the really long-term prospects, there is not much space between
    Paul&#39;s views and mine on MMs in OpenType. It&#39;s dead for now, and it&#39;s
    certainly not returning any time soon. <BR> <BR>However, multiple masters or any
    axis-based solution are not the only way to achieve optical scaling, though they
    are certainly the most elegant. I have already pointed you to the information
    on how it&#39;s done in OpenType. Typically a foundry will make some lesser number
    of discrete optical sizes. Adobe generally does four. Each is intended to cover
    a range of sizes. &#40;for examples see <a href="http://store.adobe.com/type/topics/opticalsize.html"
    target="_blank">http://store.adobe.com/type/topics/opticalsize.html</a>&#41; <BR>
    <BR>Note that just because the optically sized faces are packaged as separate
    fonts does not mean they have to be designed separately. Adobe uses MM technology
    in designing many of its typefaces today, including virtually all of those with
    optical size variants &#40;although our upcoming Garamond revival has separately
    designed optical sizes, it&#39;s a special case&#41;. <BR> <BR>Meanwhile, yes,
    you are wrong about the size of OpenType fonts. Is there some reason you can&#39;t
    read Adobe&#39;s OpenType User Guide, which I have pointed you at repeatedly?
    It&#39;s not that long, and written in plain English. Or my article on font formats,
    which is slightly more technical, but not too unreadable. Current version can
    be found here: <a href="http://www.adobeforums.com/Typography/1092" target="_blank">http://www.adobeforums.com/Typography/1092</a>
    <BR> <BR>Anyway, with regard to OpenType font size, I have about 2500 fonts in
    my main fonts folder, including the entire Adobe Type Library in OpenType, which
    is most of that. The folder also has various supplemental files &#40;PDFs, source
    files for some fonts, whatnot&#41;. The entire size of the folder is 550 MB. <BR>
    <BR>OpenType fonts with PostScript outlines are generally considerably smaller
    than equivalent Type 1 fonts. They don&#39;t usually have the bitmaps at all,
    for starters &#40;like Windows Type 1 fonts in this regard&#41;. CFF is simply
    more compact than Type 1, plus you can have subroutines to reduce the size even
    further. Compared to Windows Type 1 &#40;which is smaller than Mac Type 1&#41;,
    one knocks off about 45% of the size. <BR> <BR>Of course, depending on the size
    of the glyph set in the font and the extent of OpenType layout goodies involved,
    that can add a fair bit back. <BR> <BR>A typical OpenType font from the Adobe
    library that was converted with no merged fonts and only minimal added extras
    is 28-45K, with 30-35K being most common. <BR> <BR>A Pro font that adds CE language
    support but no extra typographic goodies might average 50-60K. A Pro font with
    CE support that also merges lots of typographic stuff averages around 100-150K.
    If it has really extensive language support as well &#40;say Greek and Cyrillic,
    as well as Latin&#43;CE&#41;, it might be in the 160-220K range. But it&#39;s
    not like your whole library will magically sprout CE, Greek and Cyrillic support.
    People still have to design this stuff. <BR>'
  created: '2004-07-09 20:04:31'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: Thomas, <BR> <BR>Today I am busy but I have some questions regarding your
    post. <BR> <BR>But for now, just so you can rest assured that I am, as always,
    more than reasonable. I offer the following. <BR> <BR>Adobe has one glaring fault
    regarding it&#39;s optical sizes. More later. Sorry to be the one that tells you.
    <BR> <BR>
  created: '2004-07-10 03:02:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Gerald, <BR>Saganaki, my grandmother would have been proud and offered you
    some of her famous avgolemony. <BR> <BR>Theos horeste, <BR> <BR>Xpistos
  created: '2004-07-10 04:14:50'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: Chris, <BR> <BR>You are making me hungry. Avgolemony is soup, no
  created: '2004-07-10 06:34:24'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: '&#34;Gerald, are you missing Hrant? <BR> <BR>Yes.&#34; <BR> <BR>Hi, Gerald,
    I miss him too. Though he did come to visit before he left. <BR> <BR>Glad you
    are holding up the fort. I have similar sympathies about this OT/PS1 bullshit,
    and I&#39;ve mouthed off about it before, but you know, &#34;they&#34; don&#39;t
    give a crap.  <BR> <BR>Buy a new computer, buy new software, buy new fonts...
    Everything will be fine. It&#39;s going to be so much better. You&#39;ll really
    like where we are taking you... <BR> <BR>Hey, seemed fine to me the way it was,
    typographically speaking, about a decade ago. Ain&#39;t really seen anything I&#39;ve
    actually gotten all that thrilled about since. <BR> <BR> <BR>the other Gerald'
  created: '2004-07-10 07:58:04'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: What the heck!!! Well, at least I get posting credit for them all. <BR> <BR>Sorry
    folks... or maybe typophile should be apologizing. Something wrong with this posting
    mechanism buds.
  created: '2004-07-10 08:15:08'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Gerald &amp; Gerald, was everything really Vne at your printing oWce a decade
    ago? Type 1 was an incredibly limited format even for English typography, let
    alone any of the world&#39;s more complex scripts. But everything is supposed
    to stand still because a couple of guys who would by happy to set all type by
    hand or on a Monotype caster thought messing around with expert sets to get their
    V, W, X, Y, and Z ligatures was Vne? A decade ago it didn&#39;t matter that the
    font format was limited to 8-bits, because so was most text processing and page
    layout software unless you happened to be Asian. But the idea that a font format
    limited to 8-bits has any future, or even much of a present, in 16- and 32-bit
    text environments it just laughable. You might also have noticed that a rather
    large percentage of the text you read every day is not beautifully printed on
    nice creamy paper: <i>it&#39;s here on this screen.</i> Something like OpenType
    happens to be <i>necessary</i> for the majority of people in the world to be able
    to read their own languages, particularly in electronic media in which, unlike
    print, the text remains live and the publisher has little or no control over eventual
    display. It happens that the companies that developed OpenType to meet this need
    also saw a use for it in making it easier to apply Vne typographic features, but
    typographers shouldn&#39;t be so parochial as to think this technology is all
    about them, or that just because they might have been satisVed with Type 1 --
    and I certainly wasn&#39;t satisiVed with it and wish it a speedy death -- this
    has any bearing on the ability of billions of people to read their own languages
    in their own writing systems.'
  created: '2004-07-10 12:27:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: '&#62;You are making me hungry. Avgolemony is soup, no'
  created: '2004-07-10 16:08:27'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: John, <BR> <BR><i>&#34;But the idea that a font format limited to 8-bits has
    any future, or even much of a present, in 16- and 32-bit text environments it
    just laughable.&#34;</i> <BR> <BR>
  created: '2004-07-10 16:14:11'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: Chris, <BR> <BR>Almost 40 years ago I went to sea on Greek ships. Livanos,
    a tramp steamship line. <BR><a href="http://lanstontype.com/GiampaIntroduction.html"
    target="_blank">http://lanstontype.com/GiampaIntroduction.html</a> <BR>I still
    get mail from Greece. My family get phone calls when I have gone missing in action.
    I learned about Greek foods aboard the ships. Let&#39;s just say I know what I
    like. I can still Greek dance, not so good at smashing glasses at the end of the
    night. I quit drinking several years back. <BR> <BR>Unfortunately I never cooked
    until later in life. I have published my Saganaki recipe on the web. Lower right
    hand column. <BR> <BR><a href="http://lanstontype.com/Saganaki.html" target="_blank">http://lanstontype.com/Saganaki.html</a>
  created: '2004-07-10 16:37:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Gerald, <BR>Surely you are joking? You must know what John means. 8, 16, 32
    bits are the amount of information addressable by the computer.  With each step
    up, the amount of information addressable increases by a huge amount.  The first
    step is from 256 to 16,000,000.  This means a font can contain not only enough
    information for the small Latin set of characters and so-called expert sets but
    for every known language including Kangi. It also can do a better job of kerning
    and smart replacement of glyphs giving type designers options they never had before.  Surely
    you can see the value in this?   <BR>Every new technology comes in with bumps
    and bruises which take a while to repair.  Remember when movable type came in?  It
    pissed off a buch of caligraphers who had perfected the art of writing far better
    than any printing press at the time could come close to.  Now measure how much
    your own company&#39;s metal types have improved upon typesetting since then.  The
    hard part is for us old geezers. We have done the heavy lifting through earlier
    &#34;new&#34; technologies and remember the sigh of satisfaction of seeing improvement.
    To now see it all starting again and perhaps realizing that we don&#39;t have
    the energy of our youth and fear the task ahead may outlive us.  Fear not, the
    young bit&amp;byte mongers of this day will have their chance to finish the job
    and later lament the next wave of new technology to decend on them. <BR>Gerald,
    keep making the beautiful type you are making and let the young tech jockeys of
    today ready it for the next &#34;new&#34; thing.  It is like turning your drawings
    over to a punch cutter, you get to challenge them and speak your mind but they
    have to do the dirty work of cutting steel. <BR> <BR>ChrisL
  created: '2004-07-10 17:06:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Gerald, &#20079;&#8265;&#8289;&#27936;&#28271;&#29728;&#28789;&#27756;&#26990;&#26400;&#31087;&#30066;&#8300;&#25959;
    <BR> <BR>...which is an elaborate technical pun that doesn&#39;t quite say in
    Chinese &#39;No, I am not pulling your leg&#39;.
  created: '2004-07-10 17:06:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: '&#62;I have published my Saganaki recipe on the web. Lower right hand column.
    &#60;  <BR> <BR>Endaxy!  Sounds delicious, now all you need is the brandy and
    a match to light it :-&#41;'
  created: '2004-07-10 18:07:56'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: John, <BR> <BR>You are not very good at Chinese. Clearly that says you need
    to find the toilet. <BR> <BR>Easy mistake. <BR> <BR> <BR>
  created: '2004-07-10 18:12:34'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: Gerald, <BR> <BR>I would like to learn how you did that. <BR> <BR>Too often
    in this <i>Forum</i> I find people &#34;talking&#34; when I am &#34;interrupting&#34;.
    <BR> <BR>
  created: '2004-07-10 18:21:00'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: Chris Lozos, <BR> <BR>I confess, for me type is all about me. Call me selfish,
    and call me for when you are making some Avgolemony. But don&#39;t call me a missionary.
    That never was my favourite position. <BR> <BR>Do you like boats? <BR> <BR>
  created: '2004-07-10 18:29:21'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: 'John, <BR> <BR><i>&#34;You might also have noticed that a rather large percentage
    of the text you read every day is not beautifully printed on nice creamy paper:
    it&#39;s here on this screen.&#34;</i> <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2004-07-10 18:39:14'
date: '2004-07-08 07:12:00'
node_type: forum
title: Archive through July 10, 2004

---
