---
author:
  name: bowerbird
  picture: 116972
body: "now that our fiery honeymoon is over, and\r\nwe've settled into our normal
  life together,\r\nperhaps you'll answer this question for me?\r\n\r\nhere are various
  linebreaks on 2 paragraphs.\r\nin your opinion, which one has the nicest rag?\r\n\r\nthe
  first set is a chapter's opening paragraph.\r\nthe second set is the epigraph on
  that chapter.\r\n\r\nexplain if you like, otherwise just note the winner.\r\n\r\nthanks...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n===
  #1- === the measure\r\nabcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyzabcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyzabcdefghijklm\r\n\r\n===
  #1a ===\r\nMY FIRST IMPRESSION of East London was naturally a general one.\r\nLater
  the details began to appear, and here and there in the chaos of\r\nmisery I found
  little spots where a fair measure of happiness reigned\u2014\r\nsometimes whole
  rows of houses in little out-of-the-way streets, where\r\nartisans dwell and where
  a rude sort of family life obtains. In the\r\nevenings the men can be seen at the
  doors, pipes in their mouths and\r\nchildren on their knees, wives gossiping, and
  laughter and fun going on.\r\nThe content of these people is manifestly great, for,
  relative to the\r\nwretchedness that encompasses them, they are well off.\r\n\r\n===
  #1b ===\r\nMY FIRST IMPRESSION of East London was naturally a general\r\none. Later
  the details began to appear, and here and there in the chaos\r\nof misery I found
  little spots where a fair measure of happiness reigned\u2014\r\nsometimes whole
  rows of houses in little out-of-the-way streets, where\r\nartisans dwell and where
  a rude sort of family life obtains. In the\r\nevenings the men can be seen at the
  doors, pipes in their mouths and\r\nchildren on their knees, wives gossiping, and
  laughter and fun going\r\non. The content of these people is manifestly great, for,
  relative to the\r\nwretchedness that encompasses them, they are well off.\r\n\r\n===
  #1c ===\r\nMY FIRST IMPRESSION of East London was naturally a general\r\none. Later
  the details began to appear, and here and there in the chaos\r\nof misery I found
  little spots where a fair measure of happiness reigned\r\n\u2014sometimes whole
  rows of houses in little out-of-the-way streets,\r\nwhere artisans dwell and where
  a rude sort of family life obtains. In the\r\nevenings the men can be seen at the
  doors, pipes in their mouths and\r\nchildren on their knees, wives gossiping, and
  laughter and fun going\r\non. The content of these people is manifestly great, for,
  relative to the\r\nwretchedness that encompasses them, they are well off.\r\n\r\n===
  #1d ===\r\nMY FIRST IMPRESSION of East London was naturally a general\r\none. Later
  the details began to appear, and here and there in the chaos\r\nof misery I found
  little spots where a fair measure of happiness reigned\r\n\u2014sometimes whole
  rows of houses in little out-of-the-way streets,\r\nwhere artisans dwell and where
  a rude sort of family life obtains. In\r\nthe evenings the men can be seen at the
  doors, pipes in their mouths\r\nand children on their knees, wives gossiping, and
  laughter and fun\r\ngoing on. The content of these people is manifestly great, for,
  relative\r\nto the wretchedness that encompasses them, they are well off.\r\n\r\n===
  #1e ===\r\nMY FIRST IMPRESSION of East London was naturally a general\r\none. Later
  the details began to appear, and here and there in the\r\nchaos of misery I found
  little spots where a fair measure of happiness\r\nreigned\u2014sometimes whole rows
  of houses in little out-of-the-way streets,\r\nwhere artisans dwell and where a
  rude sort of family life obtains. In the\r\nevenings the men can be seen at the
  doors, pipes in their mouths and\r\nchildren on their knees, wives gossiping, and
  laughter and fun going\r\non. The content of these people is manifestly great, for,
  relative to the\r\nwretchedness that encompasses them, they are well off.\r\n\r\n===
  #1f ===\r\nMY FIRST IMPRESSION of East London was naturally a general\r\none. Later
  the details began to appear, and here and there in the\r\nchaos of misery I found
  little spots where a fair measure of happiness\r\nreigned\u2014sometimes whole rows
  of houses in little out-of-the-way\r\nstreets, where artisans dwell and where a
  rude sort of family life\r\nobtains. In the evenings the men can be seen at the
  doors, pipes in\r\ntheir mouths and children on their knees, wives gossiping, and
  laughter\r\nand fun going on. The content of these people is manifestly great, for,\r\nrelative
  to the wretchedness that encompasses them, they are well off.\r\n\r\n=== #1g ===\r\nMY
  FIRST IMPRESSION of East London was naturally a general\r\none. Later the details
  began to appear, and here and there in the\r\nchaos of misery I found little spots
  where a fair measure of happiness\r\nreigned\u2014sometimes whole rows of houses
  in little out-of-the-way\r\nstreets, where artisans dwell and where a rude sort
  of family life\r\nobtains. In the evenings the men can be seen at the doors, pipes\r\nin
  their mouths and children on their knees, wives gossiping, and\r\nlaughter and fun
  going on. The content of these people is manifestly\r\ngreat, for, relative to the
  wretchedness that encompasses them, they\r\nare well off.\r\n\r\n\r\n============================================================\r\n\r\n\r\nabcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyzabcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz
  (= 10% indents)\r\n\r\n=== 2a ===\r\nI assure you I found nothing worse, nothing
  more \r\ndegrading, nothing so hopeless, nothing nearly so\r\nintolerably dull and
  miserable as the life I left behind me \r\nin the East End of London.\r\n--Huxley\r\n\r\n\r\n===
  2b ===\r\nI assure you I found nothing worse, nothing more \r\ndegrading, nothing
  so hopeless, nothing nearly so\r\nintolerably dull and miserable as the life I left
  behind \r\nme in the East End of London.\r\n--Huxley\r\n\r\n=== 2c ===\r\nI assure
  you I found nothing worse, nothing more \r\ndegrading, nothing so hopeless, nothing
  nearly\r\nso intolerably dull and miserable as the life I left \r\nbehind me in
  the East End of London.\r\n--Huxley\r\n\r\n\r\n=== 2d ===\r\nI assure you I found
  nothing worse, nothing\r\nmore degrading, nothing so hopeless, nothing \r\nnearly
  so intolerably dull and miserable as the \r\nlife I left behind me in the East End
  of London.\r\n--Huxley\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I like 1d, it has the nicest rhythm with few hyphenations and no stair-steps.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-04-09 00:10:44'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: "Keep in mind that the rag of these breaks can look different in different
    faces. As it appears here, this is how I would do #1:\r\n\r\nMY FIRST IMPRESSION
    of East London was naturally a general one.\r\nLater the details began to appear,
    and here and there in the chaos\r\nof misery I found little spots where a fair
    measure of happiness\r\nreigned -- sometimes whole rows of houses in little out-of-the-way\r\nstreets,
    where artisans dwell and where a rude sort of family life\r\nobtains. In the evenings
    the men can be seen at the doors, pipes in\r\ntheir mouths and children on their
    knees, wives gossiping, and\r\nlaughter and fun going on. The content of these
    people is manifestly\r\ngreat, for, relative to the wretchedness that encompasses
    them,\r\nthey are well off.\r\n\r\nFor #2, 2c is best. 2d would be okay if it
    didn't have the same word ending two lines in a row."
  created: '2009-04-09 02:24:03'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "dezcom said:\r\n>   I like 1d, it has the nicest rhythm with few hyphenations
    and no stair-steps.\r\n\r\ngood, thanks.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\ncerulean said:\r\n>
    \  Keep in mind that the rag of these breaks \r\n>   can look different in different
    faces. \r\n\r\ngood point.  i intend to explore how much \r\ndifference it makes,
    and whether it matters,\r\nin the long run, since in an e-book we don't\r\nknow
    what font the person will choose to use,\r\nbut it's good to be mindful of that
    assumption.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   As it appears here, this is how I would do #1:\r\n\r\nvery
    interesting.  that one didn't show up with\r\nmy routines, and i agree it's rather
    nice looking.\r\n\r\nthe exception is the \"pipes in\" line, where the \"in\"\r\nshould
    obviously be tucked into the following line,\r\nbut i like it, so i'll need to
    find out why i missed it.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   For #2, 2c is best. 2d would be okay
    if it didn\u2019t \r\n>   have the same word ending two lines in a row.\r\n\r\ngreat
    point, i hadn't noticed that, thanks so much.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-09 03:32:01'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/flames_5394.jpg]'
  created: '2009-04-09 05:35:21'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/roast_3833.png]\r\nIs it over? Or is
    that another one of your pronouncements?"
  created: '2009-04-09 11:38:10'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "some of us have a hard time staying on-topic, don't we?\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-09 17:22:29'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>good point. i intend to explore how much\r\ndifference it makes, and
    whether it matters,\r\nin the long run, since in an e-book we don\u2019t\r\nknow
    what font the person will choose to use,\r\nbut it\u2019s good to be mindful of
    that assumption.</em>\r\n\r\nIf there's any uncertainty also about line length,
    you really should think twice about breaking the lines at all. Here's what these
    trials looked like on my iPod:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IMG_0001_5491.PNG]\r\nAnd
    in fact this is what all of your hard-return-filled posts look like on it!"
  created: '2009-04-09 19:01:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "As both Bringhurst and Felici note, generally a two and one half alphabet
    measure is ideal for a single column. \r\n\r\nThanks to my and others' lobbying,
    that measure--or a little more--is now the standard on Typophile. So please put
    your posts into the default. That will be a start toward being less annoying.
    \r\n\r\nNarrower columns are fine on a multi-column page. "
  created: '2009-04-09 19:31:30'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "eliason said:\r\n>   And in fact this is what all of your \r\n>   hard-return-filled
    posts look like on it!\r\n\r\napples and elephants.\r\n\r\ni'm programming an
    e-book viewer-app,\r\nso each paragraph must be broken to the\r\nspecific width
    desired by the end-user\r\n(indicated by how they size the viewport)\r\nwhen the
    type is at the size they specify.\r\n(this is also sometimes called \"wrapping\".)\r\notherwise
    each paragraph would consist\r\nof a single line that ran off of the screen.\r\n\r\nthis
    is completely separate and different\r\nfrom the hard-returns i put in my posts.\r\n\r\nbut
    i will address that point next...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-09 19:40:04'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "william said:\r\n>   As both Bringhurst and Felici note, \r\n>   generally
    a two and one half alphabet measure \r\n>   is ideal for a single column.\r\n\r\nyes,
    thank you for telling me that.  but i did know it.\r\nin fact, that is precisely
    why i put the \"measure\" line\r\nat the very top of my different paragraph-breakings.\r\n\r\nsee
    it up there?\r\n\r\n>   === #1- === the measure\r\n>   abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyzabcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyzabcdefghijklm\r\n\r\nas
    you can clearly see, it's two-and-a-half alphabets...\r\n\r\n\r\n>   Thanks to
    my and others\u2019 lobbying, that measure\r\n>   \u2014or a little more\u2014is
    now the standard on Typophile. \r\n>   So please put your posts into the default.
    \r\n\r\nactually, william, i prefer a somewhat shorter measure.\r\n\r\nbut what
    is _really_ interesting here is that eliason was\r\npointing out that my lines
    are too long for his ipod screen,\r\nwhile you're suggesting that i should _lengthen_
    my lines...\r\n\r\nquite an interesting contradiction there, don't you think?\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  That will be a start toward being less annoying.\r\n\r\nexcept i'm not really
    worried about \"being less annoying\".\r\n\r\ni use hard-returns because that's
    what i do, and i am\r\ncomfortable enough with my artistic integrity in doing
    so\r\nthat i'm willing to be \"annoying\" to retain that integrity,\r\nespecially
    when doing so highlights a significant issue...\r\n\r\nhere, the issue is how
    our reading tools handle breaks,\r\nand more generally contribute to (or retard)
    readability.\r\n\r\nthe \"holy grail\" for some people has been \"reflowability\".\r\n\r\ni
    think reflowability is very cool, except when it's not...\r\n\r\nin general, the
    modus operandi of reflowability is to\r\nre-break the paragraphs so they will
    fit the viewport.\r\n\r\nhowever, that approach breaks the very \"rule\" that\r\nwilliam
    has cited for us -- the 2.5 alphabets rule...\r\n\r\nto abide by that rule, when
    you cut the viewport in half,\r\nyou should cut the textsize in half too.  while
    it's obvious\r\nthat approach wouldn't really work all that well, it's also\r\nobvious
    that -- with reflowability -- we routinely sacrifice\r\nthe 2.5 alphabets rule,
    and thus probably readability too...\r\n\r\nsome web-designers try to get around
    this \"limitation\"\r\nby a sneaky runaround to try to control the viewport size.\r\n\r\nyou
    see this often on blogs, where they have a main column\r\nin the middle, in a
    specific size, and the left and right sides\r\nare flexible \"slop\" that expands
    or contracts as necessary...\r\nwhich is fine, except if you have a cinema-screen,
    like me,\r\nrunning at full-screen, so more than half of your screen is\r\n\"wasted
    space\".  heck, right now, half my screen is wasted,\r\nbecause this site controls
    the width of the content shown.\r\n\r\nother web-designers set column widths in
    terms of _ems_,\r\nand try to control the \"problem\" that way.  this is another\r\ncase
    where the user's ability to \"reflow\" the text is being\r\ncompromised because
    the designer has \"pulled rank\"...\r\n\r\nand a few web-designers do _both_,
    putting their content\r\ninto a single column of a specific size that's based
    on ems.\r\n\r\nthese designs are sometimes called \"liquid\", and they are\r\na
    _hint_ of what should be done, but they're laboring under\r\nground-rules that
    don't really allow them to accomplish it.\r\n\r\nanother attempt to deal with
    this overall problem is seen in\r\ntools that split the screen into columns, where
    the number\r\nof columns is dependent upon the width of the viewport...\r\n(the
    new york times reader from microsoft is one such tool.\r\nand bill hill from microsoft
    is doing research on this strategy.)\r\n\r\nin some ways, this is a slick solution,
    but it has a problem,\r\nand the problem is fatal.  it causes most users to get
    dizzy,\r\nwhat with these shifting sands of ever-morphing columns,\r\nand it makes
    the end-user feel like they're not in control...\r\n(because they in fact _are_not_
    in control; the software is.)\r\n\r\nthere are other possible ways we could think
    about solving\r\nthis problem, but that's not really why we are here today, so\r\ni'll
    just close off this post and hope we can get back on-topic.\r\n\r\nas i depart,
    let me say that i am sorry for the stairstep effect\r\nthat my hard-returns cause,
    at times, when viewing this site\r\non an iphone/touch.  i wish apple let you
    control the fontsize,\r\nso you could eliminate this problem by downsizing the
    text...\r\n\r\nfor those of you using a browser, who think my lines are\r\n\"too
    short\", i'm sorry too, although to a much lesser degree,\r\nsince your problem
    is much less serious.\r\n\r\nnonetheless, if the hard-returns bother you, i encourage
    you\r\nto skip my posts without reading them.  i'd hate to upset you.\r\nif you
    get upset for any reason by my posts, stop reading 'em.\r\nyou won't \"hurt my
    feelings\" by not reading my posts.  really.\r\n\r\nhave a nice day...         :+)\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-09 20:39:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I saw your two an a half alphabet guide, and I saw that you violate it. I
    was suggesting that it is better typography to follow it. \r\n\r\nYou think that
    it is \"artistry\" to do something different. Frankly, I think that is rubbish:
    we're writing prose here--sometimes with a nice turn of phrase, but not poetry.
    The line breaks are not important.   \r\n\r\n>but what is _really_ interesting
    here is that eliason was\r\npointing out that my lines are too long for his ipod
    screen,\r\nwhile you\u2019re suggesting that i should _lengthen_ my lines...\r\n\r\n>quite
    an interesting contradiction there, don\u2019t you think?\r\n\r\nExcept that it's
    not a contradiction, because if you use the default word wrap it will I believe
    wrap in both the Typophile window and elsewhere. "
  created: '2009-04-09 21:54:11'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "william said:\r\n>   and I saw that you violate it. I was suggesting that
    \r\n>   it is better typography to follow it.\r\n\r\nand i said i care less about
    the typography of my posts\r\nthan i care about my artistic integrity.  you cite
    bringhurst,\r\nand talk about me \"violating\" the rule that he made, but\r\nmy
    copy of bringhurst says this explicitly in the foreword:\r\n\r\n>   if you use
    this book as a guide,\r\n>   by all means leave the road when you wish.\r\n\r\nyou
    continue:\r\n>   The line breaks are not important.\r\n\r\nmaybe they're not important
    to _you_.  which is fine.\r\nin fact, here's a place where you can unwrap my lines:\r\n>
    \  http://z-m-l.com/go/unwrap.pl\r\n\r\njust paste the text you want to unwrap
    in the textfield,\r\nclick the button, and the unwrapped text will be shown\r\nunder
    the textfield.  or, as i have said repeatedly, you\r\ncan just feel free not to
    read my posts, that's just fine.\r\n\r\n\r\n>    if you use the default word wrap
    it will I believe \r\n>   wrap in both the Typophile window and elsewhere.\r\n\r\nof
    course it will, no \"believe\" about it.\r\n\r\nbut, as we have already clearly
    established by now,\r\nmy linebreaks are important to me, and i don't intend\r\nto
    change them.  especially since they bring up issues\r\nthat are interesting, which
    we can discuss elsewhere,\r\nif you feel inclined to start a separate thread on
    that...\r\n\r\nbut _this_ thread is on a different topic.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-09 23:04:05'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Flamethrower_5_6287.jpg]'
  created: '2009-04-10 02:52:27'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: "As I wrote in a comment on your March 5 post, \"[book] design is a compromise
    between the convenience of the reader and the limitations of the production process.\"\r\nThe
    \"production process\" for ebooks must anticipate a variety of devices that end
    users will read text on. The \"limitation\" is that some of those devices are
    designed to fit in the palm of your hand (and in your pocket), which limits them
    to about 3.5 inches wide, with a screen no more than 3 inches wide. \r\n3 inches
    is only enough for about an alphabet and a half of 10-point type (about as small
    as most of us care to read on screen). \r\nThat's where the \"convenience of the
    reader\" makes us compromise the two-and-a-half-alphabet rule. Many readers would
    gladly live with a line length of around one and a half alphabets (less if it's
    12-point) in exchange for the convenience of getting content on a mobile device
    that fits in their shirt pockets (and that they can also use to make phone calls,
    take pictures, find the nearest Starbucks, Tweet, calculate tips, etc.). "
  created: '2009-04-10 18:20:13'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"i use hard-returns because that\u2019s what i do, and i am\r\ncomfortable
    enough with my artistic integrity in doing so\r\nthat i\u2019m willing to be \u201Cannoying\u201D
    to retain that integrity\"\r\n\r\nYou are truly a troll of the highest caliber.
    My hats off!"
  created: '2009-04-10 20:36:18'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "publishingmojo said:\r\n>   The \u201Cproduction process\u201D for ebooks
    must anticipate \r\n>   a variety of devices that end users will read text on.\r\n\r\nyes,
    i understand that quite well.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   3 inches is only enough for about
    an alphabet and a half\r\n\r\nok.  but that doesn't have anything to do with my
    question.\r\n\r\ni used a certain measure -- i could've used _any_ length,\r\nfor
    purposes of this test -- and got several wrappings,\r\ndepending on how i tweak
    certain rewrapping variables.\r\n\r\ni asked for feedback on the quality of those
    rewrappings\r\nin order to help make decisions on how to do the tweaks.\r\n\r\nperhaps
    i should have explained that more clearly upfront,\r\nso as to have avoided some
    of the false starts -- or maybe\r\nricardo would've cheekily posted his pictures
    regardless...\r\n\r\nbut yes, in case it's not totally obvious, my viewer-program\r\nwill
    wrap the paragraphs to the size of the view-port, and\r\nthus has nothing to do
    with the unrelated fact that i insert\r\nhard-returns for linebreaks in my personal
    online posts...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-10 21:09:40'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "aluminum said:\r\n>   You are truly a troll of the highest caliber. My hats
    off!\r\n\r\ni'm here for discussion, dude, civil honest on-topic discussion.\r\n\r\nif
    you want to be hostile, fine, but _own_ your own behavior;\r\ndon't try to pawn
    off responsibility on me by calling me a troll.\r\n\r\ni instruct people -- cheerfully
    -- to ignore my posts if they\r\nare emotionally riled in any way by reading them,
    which is\r\nhardly what i would do if i were here _trying_ to start a fight.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-10 21:10:28'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Ignoring your posts is about as\r\neasy as ignoring bum rash.\r\nBut you
    know that, otherwise you \r\nwould have modified your annoying \r\npresence years
    ago.\r\n\r\nI spoke to your ward supervisor and your internet privileges have
    been revoked."
  created: '2009-04-11 00:54:50'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "because even if you won't own your own behavior,\r\neverybody else knows
    the responsibility is on you.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-11 01:22:13'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite>Ignoring your posts is about as\r\neasy as ignoring bum rash.</cite>\r\n\r\nPoppycock.
    Nonsense. Balderdash.\r\n\r\nLet me remind you guys as a Moderator that if you
    don't want to have a useful talk together you can always not reply. It is an option.
    \r\n\r\nEverybody has this option.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-11 04:05:54'
date: '2009-04-08 23:52:13'
node_type: forum
title: now that our fiery honeymoon is over

---
