---
author:
  name: raph
  picture: 109741
body: "My paper for CAD Conferences is done. If you just happen to be in Reno on Jun
  11, then by all means <a href=\"http://www.cadconferences.com/CAD09_Thursday.html\">stop
  by</a>.\r\n\r\nThe paper is entitled \"Interpolating Splines:  Which is the Fairest
  of them all?\" It tells the story in some considerably technical detail about my
  explorations to make a spline based on curves even better than the Euler spiral
  (also known as Cornu spiral) I've been working with for years.\r\n\r\nPart of the
  paper includes the results of the <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/52821\">survey</a>
  I did here a few months ago. Thanks again to all who participated in that.\r\n\r\nHere's
  an image comparing the two splines. The new curve is in black, the Euler spiral
  spline in blue. You can certainly <em>do</em> the desired curve with the older spline,
  it would just need more points. A major goal in pursuing the new curve is to make
  it possible to create good results with very sparse points, which, in turn, is especially
  useful when doing interpolation and other forms of variation.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/spline2_3566.png]\r\n\r\nI
  don't want to put the paper up at a public URL until the conference (as that's my
  understanding of the proper etiquette), but if anyone here is interested, just drop
  me a note and I'll be happy to send a private link.\r\n\r\nI haven't yet put it
  together into a tool useful enough to actually draw fonts with (there are issues
  with stability, and the numerical work is difficult), but I do think it's a promising
  path to explore."
comments:
- author:
    name: mr
    picture: 112699
  body: "Forgive my confusion, but is this about spiros or a different family of curves?
    Are spiros the \"Euler spirals\" you mentioned?\r\n\r\nI've been using spiros
    lately, and they certainly make <em>quick</em> design easier (for me, anyway),
    but I haven't had a chance to see how they turn out in the long run (compared
    to Beziers, of course). I like the way one adjusts a curve simply by moving a
    point or adding a point <em>where you want it</em>. So I'm interested how a different
    family of curves would compare."
  created: '2009-04-12 09:43:47'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "I'm a bit confused. What you refer to as \"interpolation\" has nothing to
    do with interpolating between different shapes, does it? I mean, this is not about
    MM-like blending of different weights or so?\r\n\r\nIn any case, I'd be very interested
    in your paper. Can you send me the link using my profile \"contact\" page? Thanks!"
  created: '2009-04-12 10:05:06'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "Hi, Raph! I am also interested, and would be very happy if you sent me the
    link (via contact page).\r\n\r\n><cite>So I\u2019m interested how a different
    family of curves would compare.</cite>\r\nMe too, and I am actually doing first
    degree about this topic from a typographical point of view. Although there is
    a long way to go, and I still don\u2019t know how exactly is visual Metafont going
    to look like :-)"
  created: '2009-04-12 12:52:25'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">A major goal in pursuing the new curve is to make it possible to create
    good results with very sparse points, which, in turn, is especially useful when
    doing interpolation and other forms of variation.\r\n\r\nAnd what are very sparse
    points? I mean, points are never sparser than those required for a given shape,
    nor are they often less than sparse in professionally crafted fonts. \r\n\r\n>...
    haven\u2019t had a chance to see how they turn out in the long run (compared to
    Beziers, of course)...\r\n\r\nAnd that's not considering how they turn out 'in
    the long run' <em>converted</em> to Beziers...\r\n\r\nI'd suggest going back to
    the previous threads if you don't understand what Ralph is doing, and I suggest
    being quieter than I if you do. :)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-04-12 13:26:54'
- author:
    name: sgh
    picture: 111405
  body: Raph, this is very interesting.  I would also like a copy of the paper.  Thanks!
  created: '2009-04-12 17:00:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I am wondering how the work you have done, Raph, relates to Tim Ahren''s
    effort to have a Bezier drawing program be constrained to ''nice curves''. Thirty
    five minutes into this presentation: http://blip.tv/file/1911354'
  created: '2009-04-12 22:44:59'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I'd love to read that paper, too.\r\n\r\nDB, you wrote:\r\n\r\n<cite>And
    what are very sparse points? I mean, points are never sparser than those required
    for a given shape,\"</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, but that minimum sparseness can be dependent
    on the math being used. There's a relationship between the way the curves are
    described (mathematical representation), and what shapes are most efficiently
    described by a given kind of math. Think about the differences between cubic and
    quadratic Bezier curves, for instance....\r\n\r\n<cite>\"... nor are they often
    less than sparse in professionally crafted fonts.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nSure, but it's
    hardly unusual to be forced to put an extra on-curve point on the curve of an
    \"s,\" is it? The minimal sparse curve is defined by the combination of the desired
    shape and the math being used to describe it. Sometimes the shape requires more
    than just the minimum on-curve points one needs for that class of curve... at
    which point it becomes a reasonable question where there's some kind of math that
    would work better.\r\n\r\nLeastways, that's my way of thinking.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-04-13 03:08:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Thomas: <em>The minimal sparse curve is defined by the combination of the
    desired shape and the math being used to describe it.</em>\r\n\r\nAnd how you
    intend to affect its rasterisation to a grid, i.e. how you intend to hint it.\r\n\r\nI'm
    always happy to see new outline creation tools, but at the end of the day what
    matters most is the outline format of the font itself, and what one can do with
    or to that format.\r\n\r\nI'm interested in seeing a couple of things:\r\n\r\nConversion
    quality from Raph's curves to cubic and quadratic beziers, or a proposal for a
    font format using his curves natively."
  created: '2009-04-13 03:27:59'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "<cite>Conversion quality from Raph\u2019s curves to cubic and quadratic beziers</cite>\r\n\r\nJohn,
    you can test that (at least for Euler spirals) if you get FontForge and the Spiro
    plugin, then generate a PS font.\r\n\r\nI vaguely remember there is a variable
    somewhere that allows you to control how many Bezier poits are being used to represent
    the internal format. This is a sort of dilemma, of course: either you deviate
    from the desired shape because there are not enough points, or you deviate because
    there are many rounding errors.\r\n\r\nAnother problem is that it does not generate
    extrema but fixing that should be easy."
  created: '2009-04-13 09:15:56'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I\u2019m interested in seeing ...Conversion quality from Raph\u2019s curves
    to cubic and quadratic beziers, \r\nSame here. Previous requests led to unexplaination.\r\n\r\n>or
    a proposal for a font format using his curves natively.\r\nThat's just what we
    need. ;)\r\n\r\n>Think about the differences between cubic and quadratic Bezier
    curves, for instance....\r\nYes? If a type designer digitizes both with a well
    wrought tool, the <em>only</em> difference is that the off-curve points are in
    slightly different places. \r\n\r\n>it becomes a reasonable question where there\u2019s
    some kind of math that would work better.\r\nIt does? Perhaps for people who don't
    know how to, or can't draw very specific curves. But in 20 years of facing every
    kind of curve from Beowolf to Zapfino, with no market-driven suggestion of a lack
    of efficiency or accuracy, there are far more reasonable questions than this.
    \r\n\r\n>... either you deviate from the desired shape because there are not enough
    points, or you deviate because there are many rounding errors.\r\nSorry? Tim,
    you don't deviate from the desired shape unless, somewhere along the line, resolution
    makes it mandatory. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-04-13 11:35:43'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Tim, in your Robothon talk I linked above, you seemed to argue that the main
    problem with 'bad' curves was not their being Bezier curves, but rather too big
    a change in curvature at nodes joining two curves. \r\n\r\nIf this is so, then
    having the Euler curve is not necessarily any advantage, which I take to be David's
    view. \r\n\r\nNow everything is in the end converted to Beziers in Raph's approach.
    I believe that Raph did illustrate this sometime here on typophile, and the conversion
    was very good. So I think the question of usefulness is really whether this tool--or
    the one you are developing, or neither or both--make it easier to get curves of
    the kinds that type designers want to get. \r\n\r\nSince, as David says, we are
    in any case dealing with finite resolutions--2700 dpi or 96 dpi or something in
    between--many different closely related curves are equally \"ideal\". So the question
    is ease of use in getting curves you want. "
  created: '2009-04-13 15:44:40'
- author:
    name: mr
    picture: 112699
  body: "<em>Tim, in your Robothon talk I linked above, you seemed to argue that the
    main problem with \u2019bad\u2019 curves was not their being Bezier curves, but
    rather too big a change in curvature at nodes joining two curves.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    totally agree that the problem is with <em>bad</em> Beziers rather than Beziers,
    but if one has a tool that makes it easier to have continuous curvature, isn't
    that worth exploring? I'd be the first to admit that there are better curve-sketchers
    than me, but there are times when I spend hours trying to get a Bezier \"good\".\r\n\r\nOf
    course a new curve family isn't going to magically make type design easy, especially
    when we have to convert to a different curve family for output, but I think new
    tools are worth exploring.\r\n\r\nWith regards to John Hudson's idea of \"a proposal
    for a font format using his curves natively,\" my intuition is that evaluation
    of these curves is rather resource-intensive, especially now that devices like
    phones are using standard font technology. On the other hand, if they can handle
    Splinter Cell, maybe they can handle a few continuous-curvature curves. Bezier
    curves, in contrast, are extremely fast to evaluate.\r\n\r\nSo, Raph, colour me
    interested and send me a preprint."
  created: '2009-04-13 16:33:25'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "<cite>Tim, in your Robothon talk I linked above, you seemed to argue that
    the main problem with \u2019bad\u2019 curves was not their being Bezier curves</cite>\r\n\r\nCorrect.
    I guess nobody considers Bezier curves \"bad\", and if Raph uses spirals internally
    and it leads to a useful curve editor then that's fair enough. The current conversion
    problems are obvious but are not impossible to overcome. Time will tell how well
    the approach of on-curve points without any tangents works in real-life design.\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>...
    but rather too big a change in curvature at nodes joining two curves.</cite>\r\n\r\nExactly.
    Not having (too big) a change in curvature, in other words <cite>continuous curvature</cite>,
    is not my own concept. Mathematicians call it G2 continuity. I guess it is one
    of the most fundamental characteristics of a harmonious curve and establishing
    G2 (or making it \"built in\") is the most important step toward \"good curves\".\r\n\r\nBtw,
    this is a similar concept to what happens when we switch a node to \"smooth\"
    in FontLab: this means that FL enforces <cite>continuous diection</cite>, in mathematics
    this is called G1. Note that FL actively keeps the nodes smooth by secretly adjusting
    the other BCP as you drag the other. Smooth nodes are an application feature,
    not expressed in the curve mathematics and not even stored in the font files.\r\n\r\nSo,
    G2 is just the next logical step from \"kink\" to \"smooth\" and as you may guess,
    there is also G3: a continuity of the derivative of curvature. Sounds a bit over
    the top, but it expresses the difference between \"bumps\" or \"dents\" in the
    outline (think of the top left part of Palatino's c, d or f, where this is intentional)
    or a really very smooth curve. In my SpotOn tool, G3 is built-into diagonals,
    and the Harmonizer will soon have it as an option.\r\n\r\n<cite>If this is so,
    then having the Euler curve is not necessarily any advantage, which I take to
    be David\u2019s view. </cite>\r\n\r\nIf it helps to find curves that have G2,
    G3 and even G4 (if I remember correctly) then it is may be a ueful means to an
    end.\r\n\r\nI see the main difference not in the mathematics used but in the \"philosophy\".
    One is the classic mathematical aproach of \"something is given\" (in this case,
    a set of points) and \"something is to be found\" (a curve through it). I am not
    sure whether this is the right approach for an interactive tool, however.\r\nMy
    concept is to say, the tool simply \"does something\" while the designer drags
    nodes/point/curves/lines until they get the shape they want. The \"does something\"
    could be anything. Although (or probably because) this gives me a lot of freedom,
    finding a good \"does something\" is quite a challenge. For me, the crucial question
    when developing a curve editor is: how does moving the points change the curve?
    This change should be predictable and traceable despite all the magic built-in
    smoothness.\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-13 17:09:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "[Drifting perhaps off-topic, since this no longer involves Raph's work.]\r\n\r\nTim,
    I've been testing your Harmoniser, and apart from problems with distorting serif
    structure, due to the tightness of the curves, it generally does what is advertised:
    makes nicely smooth curves. But there is a built-in problem with how it does this
    -- by adjusting the position of the on curve node -- because overall good letter
    form depends not only on the quality of individual curves but on the relationship
    between inner curves and outer curves. The Harmoniser frequently changes that
    relationship, by shifting the relative positions of extrema on inner and outer
    curves, thereby changing the nature of the stroke. In terms of Noordzijan stroke
    modelling, Harmoniser changes the angle of the moving front."
  created: '2009-04-13 17:26:49'
- author:
    name: mr
    picture: 112699
  body: "<em>Although (or probably because) this gives me a lot of freedom, finding
    a good \u201Cdoes something\u201D is quite a challenge. For me, the crucial question
    when developing a curve editor is: how does moving the points change the curve?
    This change should be predictable and traceable despite all the magic built-in
    smoothness.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's interesting, because while I see what you're saying,
    I find spiros less \"action-at-a-distance-y\". If I don't have the curve I want,
    I ask myself, where should this curve go instead, and I add a point there (or
    if there is already one nearby, I adjust it); with Beziers, on the other hand,
    I have to think which of the four relevant points (two on-curve and two off-curve)
    do I need to move, and where, to get the change I want. With a bit of practice,
    one learns to do this pretty easily, but it's not wholly intuitive (especially
    if the off-curve points are invisible -- ever used MS Paint's Bezier tool?).\r\n\r\nBy
    the way, Tim, spiros as implemented in FontForge with libspiro give a choice between
    G4 and G2 points. I use G4 points by default, but sometimes switch a few to G2
    points when I want less smoothness (usually I just add more points closer together)
    or when my curve is unstable. Stability is certainly something that needs work
    (perhaps these new curves are better in that regard)."
  created: '2009-04-13 17:36:24'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "I'll follow on with some images and other things when I'm on my home computer,
    but I did want to address a few of the questions.\r\n\r\nSpiro is based on Euler
    spirals, but with some refinement. The main thing is the straight-to-curve transition,
    which can't readily be done using pure Euler spirals. It also gives you a choice
    between G4 continuity and G2 (as Tim explained above). I used to use G4 for most
    of my outlines, but have more recently decided that it's virtually impossible
    to see the difference visually, so I can get just as good results with less effort
    using primarily G2 instead.\r\n\r\nThe prototype tool I built for the paper uses
    a slightly different curve than Euler spirals - it has a shallower variation of
    curvature near the inflection point (center of an \"S\" curve), and that gives
    both a more taut (less \"loopy\") response and also better locality. Moving a
    control point causes less rippling outward. However, this tool is just open curves
    - it doesn't do the straight-to-curve transitions, or even corners and closed
    curves, so it's not very useful for making fonts (yet).\r\n\r\nI have an optimized
    conversion to cubic Beziers also, part of the spiro release. It's not well integrated
    with FontForge yet, and is very very slow (I've been hacking on both those issues,
    but haven't released the new version yet). The results, I think, are entirely
    suitable for real font production. However, I haven't addressed the issue of hinting
    at all. The resulting Beziers are clean and sparse enough that they're pretty
    easy to hint manually, but that doesn't help much in the case of variation.\r\n\r\nAnd
    by variation, yes, I mean things like interpolating between different widths or
    weights, but I also mean adding parameters for things like extender height - something
    that Metafont handled well, but Multiple Master doesn't.\r\n\r\nI know how to
    convert to optimized quadratics as well, but haven't actually written the code.
    For what I'm doing now, getting it into one industry-standard form is good enough.
    But perhaps quadratics are also interesting. Among other things, \r\n\r\nYou can
    see one example of a conversion from spiro to Beziers on: http://levien.com/spiro/\r\n\r\nThomas's
    description of sparseness is about what I'd say. I also have a fair amount of
    experience by now tracing outlines from metal type. Some representations require
    more points than others to get comparable results. In particular, evidence suggests
    that Spiro requires about half as many on-curve points as Ikarus, and lots and
    lots of real fonts got made using that tool.\r\n\r\nA new font format is certainly
    an interesting idea, but getting apps to adopt it is well-nigh impossible. So
    mostly I'm thinking about this as a technique for mastering fonts, then generating
    industry-standard formats from those masters.\r\n\r\nMore later."
  created: '2009-04-13 17:59:42'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Raph: <em>A new font format is certainly an interesting idea, but getting
    apps to adopt it is well-nigh impossible.</em>\r\n\r\nCertainly true. But it's
    time to start talking about fonts post-OpenType, and my opinion is that anything
    and everything should be on the table, including outline formats. We should know
    what all the options are, and catalogue their pros and cons -- both technical
    and 'industrial' (in the sense of what might target industries accept) --, before
    we start describing the kind of fonts we'd like to be making ten-to-twenty years
    from now. Last time around, we -- font developers -- didn't get much of a say
    about it, and despite the huge improvements of OpenType over 8-bit Type 1, we're
    still stuck with a format with inherent limits (particularly with regard to table
    sizes, and some of us are already hitting those limits)."
  created: '2009-04-13 21:31:17'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...But it\u2019s time to start talking about fonts post-OpenType...\"\r\nYou
    are joking right?\r\n\"... before we start describing the kind of fonts we\u2019d
    like to be making ten-to-twenty years from now...\"\r\n... we ought to be making
    fonts people can read today. I'm dazzled to hear you talking about anything past
    next month, but as things are going with the OFF std and technological cooperation
    among the 'competing' systems, there will be no need for another std, John, none
    whatsoever. Table sizes?! lol.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-04-14 12:22:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, if you mean that the OFF standard will simply evolve continuously
    into a new format, then yes, that is one way it could go, although the result
    will be a giant mess of legacy compatibility issues: the MS Word of font formats.
    Within this framework, discussion is already under way about how to get past the
    64k glyph limit and things like different vertical metrics requirements of different
    scripts, using composite fonts. Which of course raises issues of how to implement
    cross-font kerning and other layout intelligence. Doubtless some bright mind will
    come up with a solution to those problems, but in doing so will add layers of
    complexity to font development that wouldn't be necessary if the format were not
    saddled with that 64k limit in the first place.\r\n\r\nThen there are the things
    that OpenType can do -- and hence the way in which they do them will not be changed,
    because inertia is the measure of success for a standard -- but does so in ways
    that are painfully difficult. Have you tried contextual interaction of dynamic
    mark positioning with kerning?\r\n\r\nThen there are the incompatibility issues
    between different OT layout engines. Having a single font format standard is nice,
    but there is no single standard for implementing OT layout in systems and applications.
    I spent some time over the past couple of weeks helping a major software developer
    figure out what they were doing wrong in their OTL implementation, all the while
    with them complaining about the lack of an OTL implementation spec and lack of
    clarity in the OT font spec.\r\n\r\nNor is there anything like cross-platform
    compatible script and language support, and since the OT standard relies on system
    and application resources for such things -- without the option of AAT/Graphite-like
    font level implementation -- the ability to create text in your native language
    may be tightly constrained or even impossible, while you wait for your culture
    to become a priority for someone else's strategic marketing.\r\n\r\nYes, these
    issues can be addressed by hacking extensions on to the OT spec -- just as CFF
    PS support was hacked onto the TTO spec to create OT in the first place -- but
    its a heck of a lot cleaner to ask 'Okay, what have we learned from OpenType,
    and how can we do it better?'"
  created: '2009-04-14 17:14:25'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Following up on what I called my crucial question above, \"How does moving
    the points change the curve?\"\r\n\r\nWhile playing around with Spiro, I noticed
    the following:\r\n\r\nIf I drag a point perpendicular to the contour then the
    contour is pushed in or out. Not surprising, and this is how you want a drawing
    tool to behave, of course.\r\nHowever, if I move the point in the other direction,
    i.e. along the contour, then almost nothing happens. In other words: of the two
    dimensions you can move a point in, one seems to be \"unused\". Two degrees of
    freedom effectively controlling one. Isn't that redundancy a pity? I am quite
    convinced that redundancy is the root of all evil when it comes to curve editing.
    Another consequence is obviously that this increases the number of points that
    are necessary to control the shape.\r\n\r\nI think an ideal curve editing tool
    (independent of the underlying mathematics) should make use of the two degrees
    of freedom in which the user can tell the computer the desired change. Dragging
    the curve or an on-curve point should control two things: pushing the contour
    it in and out, i.e. removing or adding black \"material\", but also pushing the
    material to the side, making the curve move out on one side and in on the other.
    This is what happens when you move the on-curve Bezier nodes, so at least in this
    respect they behave like you would expect it. Bezier splines have their oddities,
    of course, but if the computer helps the designer tame them they come pretty close
    to what I consider an ideal tool."
  created: '2009-04-15 14:00:12'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "Tim: interesting observation about moving points along the curve. In my experience,
    that's <em>much</em> more true for G4 points than G2, especially if the point
    is on a curvature maxima. With the G2 points, all curvature minima and maxima
    must occur at the control points.\r\n\r\nAnd if moving the point really doesn't
    affect the curve at all, then perhaps that means some points could be removed.\r\n\r\nI
    certainly agree that redundancy is a bad thing. As for the Beziers or interpolating
    splines are fundamentally better for designing fonts, that may come down to a
    matter of individual preference. Beziers are cool, and are of course capable of
    really good work. Serious designers like David have invested years into making
    them do exactly what is wanted. He no doubt avoids \"bad Beziers\" completely
    subconsciously.\r\n\r\nI do suspect that the advantages of interpolating splines
    will come out more strongly when designing fonts with variation. Making a single
    Bezier outline G2 continuous (or nearly so) is not too hard if you have tools.
    Making a set of Multiple Masters that preserve that property across a wide range
    of interpolations is, uh, not so easy. Yet, with my interpolating splines, you
    get that by construction. I have only played around with interpolations a bit,
    because I don't (yet) have interactive tools for it, but so far it does seem much
    easier to get good results."
  created: '2009-04-15 16:33:03'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John: Have you tried contextual interaction of dynamic mark positioning with
    kerning?\r\nI hope someone gets your message in a bottle. Have you tried giving
    80,000 users the same screen font? Specializing more in size and resolution issues,
    I've kept sending more and better illustrated bottles on my topics until, I decided
    maybe I misunderstood something, and started sending messages in battles.\r\n\r\nJohn:
    ... if you mean that the OFF standard will simply evolve continuously into a new
    format [...] the result will be a giant mess of legacy compatibility issues...\r\n\r\nI
    don't mean that the OFF standard should or could or will    Simply   evolve, or
    evolve at all. But I think if OFF is to influence typographic improvements for
    users, OFF should evolve enough to cover the 'mess' created from OT/ATT/Bravo's
    failure to evolve enough together, in the past, for the purposes required for
    the WWW. That is the point, isn't it? That would also be the point of an OFF2,
    with less baggage claimed. Its a heck of a lot smarter to ask \u2019Okay, what
    have we learned from Everything (including the stuff spiraling out of control;),
    and how can we do it better, rather than just thinking OT, which was broken by
    it's backward-leaning/looking birthing, I think. \r\nAnd finally to your point;
    culture waiting to become a priority for someone else\u2019s strategic marketing
    is over. Though I think you mean linguistic cultures, I unfortunately do not.
    \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-04-15 20:05:12'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "J.H. -- <cite>Have you tried contextual interaction of dynamic mark positioning
    with kerning?</cite>\r\nD.B. -- <cite>I hope someone gets your message in a bottle.
    [...] I've kept sending more and better illustrated bottles [...]\r\n\r\nNo need
    for wasting time on illustrating bottles. DecoType has done so already, both with
    their ACE technology and typefaces, Naskh and their new <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/44140#comment-341868\"
    target=\"_blank\">Nastaleeq</a>. Another kind of illustration is a little exercise.
    Produce such a Nastaleeq in OpenType, with as few glyphs and with comparable layout
    behavior. Or, for beginners, do systematic mark attachment in Latin script fonts.
    (Doing some trials right now which involves not just usual class/exception kerning
    but also contextual kerning of all possible base-mark combinations -- a simplified
    case of \"contextual interaction of dynamic mark positioning with kerning\" --,
    OpenType's limitations beat back around every corner. Unfortunately these limitations
    are structural.)\r\n\r\nPerhaps the most crucial point is to put more emphasis
    on the \"open\" in OT or OFF, as a platform that serves multiple specialized layout
    engines tailored around the needs of individual scripts, with special tables addressing
    each script and layout engine's logic. Maybe even additional shape description
    formats, like CJK may profit from <a href=\"http://engineering.tufts.edu/GradResearch/documents/GradResearch2006/jakubiak.pdf\">stylized
    strokes</a>. But then keep each of these closed and well documented so it is reliable
    for all parties.\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2009-04-16 21:37:34'
date: '2009-04-12 08:00:04'
node_type: forum
title: CAD paper on interpolating splines

---
