---
author:
  name: AenTan
  picture: 117153
body: "I wrote an article on signage typefaces last night. I hope it can be useful
  to you.\r\n[[http://www.coma.sg/articles/opinion/signage-typefaces/]]"
comments:
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Given how much has been written on the subject, your article does not add
    anything of significance. And where did you get that item that Clearview is legible
    up to 60 mph? Legibility is not about speed, it is about viewing distance!
  created: '2009-04-12 17:45:49'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: That is not an article, it is a collection of seemingly-related factoids and
    innaccuracies fluffed up with a pointless introduction and some photographs.
  created: '2009-04-12 18:21:32'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "<cite>For those of you who still don\u2019t know the difference a typeface
    and a font, I will tell you now once and for all.<cite>\r\n\r\nAh, thanks, now
    we finally know! And no more discussions, please.\r\n\r\nSo, <a href=\"http://www.thomasphinney.com/2009/04/font-terms-survey-results\">Thomas
    Phinney's survey</a> was in vain, what a pity."
  created: '2009-04-12 18:46:30'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: By the by, who uses Rotis for street signage?
  created: '2009-04-12 18:57:26'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Actually, Singapore uses Rotis for street name signs. I remember years ago
    providing 3M SIngapore with spacing charts similar to Clearview for them to apply
    to Rotis (optically condensed at that). Frightening, absolutely frightening!
  created: '2009-04-13 02:10:18'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: 'Remind me never to go to Singapore. '
  created: '2009-04-13 04:34:34'
- author:
    name: Curiousity
    picture: 113826
  body: Harsh comments.
  created: '2009-04-13 04:49:14'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: 'Sorry, I didn''t realize the author was from Singapore. Hopefully they don''t
    take our distaste for Rotis personally. '
  created: '2009-04-13 15:50:32'
- author:
    name: AenTan
    picture: 117153
  body: "The good bits are actually in the external links I included in the article,
    e.g. Clearview. I didn't want to repeat anything that has already been written.
    It's a window to some of the lesser known typefaces used in applications some
    might take for granted. I did not mean it to be some kind of scientific paper.\r\n\r\nAny
    typeface is a good typeface as long as it can be used effectively somewhere. I
    despise wannabe type experts who make childish claims like \"Arial sucks\", \"Who
    uses Rotis?\", \"avoid Helvetica\". They obviously have no clue to make such fashionable
    comments.\r\n\r\nAnyway it's my first post in these boards so I thought I start
    off with a bit of contribution. Sorry if wasn't to your liking."
  created: '2009-04-13 17:34:47'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Nice to have them all in one place, thanks and welcome!\r\n\r\nCheers."
  created: '2009-04-13 21:20:05'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: "For a more detailed compilations read Ralf Hermann's wiki: [[http://www.typografie.info/typowiki/index.php?title=Schriften_auf_Verkehrszeichen]]
    and blog entries: [[http://opentype.info/blog/category/traffic-typefaces/]] and
    this thread: [[http://typophile.com/node/39661]]\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-13 22:09:51'
- author:
    name: AenTan
    picture: 117153
  body: '@ Clauses. I didn''t know that existed. I thought I was googling pretty extensively.
    Wish the stuff was in English though. Thanks much.'
  created: '2009-04-14 04:54:11'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "@AenTan:\r\nYou did not ask me for permission to upload this image of mine
    to your website. \r\nhttp://www.coma.sg/wp-content/uploads/2009/04/din1.jpg\r\nPlease
    remove it and check the rights of the images you use for your articles. It is
    NOT enough just to mention the source. \r\n\r\nRalf Herrmann\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-14 07:53:27'
- author:
    name: jabez
    picture: 112785
  body: "Hello to a fellow Typophile from SG :)\r\n\r\nI agree with James - Much has
    been written on the subject. Perhaps calling it an article raised expectations?\r\n\r\nOn
    a side note: Sander Baumann's blog - <a href=\"http://www.designworkplan.com/\">DesignWorkPlan</a>
    - is one of my favourite haunts for signage/wayfinding stuff."
  created: '2009-04-14 08:18:32'
- author:
    name: hassebasse
  body: 'Also, check out the chapter on the carefully thought-out, but never used
    MoT Serif in the book "Type: The secret History of Letters". Great reading, and
    I sort of like the unconventianal result - wish it were used somewhere, though
    maybe not in my hometown.'
  created: '2009-04-14 09:29:38'
- author:
    name: mlvr
  body: "Give him a break. I appreciate the contribution! Good stuff in your portfolio
    as well.\r\n\r\nAnd Ralf Hermann you should be ashamed of yourself claiming copyright
    to such a generic and overworked photo student image. It's not like he is capitalizing
    on it is he...\r\n\r\n\r\n-\r\nMax\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-14 12:26:24'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>And Ralf Hermann you should be ashamed of yourself claiming copyright
    to such a generic and overworked photo student image. It\u2019s not like he is
    capitalizing on it is he...</cite>\r\n\r\nI am not ashamed at all. For the last
    2 years I travelled all over Europe to research this topic and to gather my own
    images. It took me a lot of time and money to collect all those images. If I let
    AenTan use it, it's likely gonna get linked and re-blogged by others and soon
    the source will not even be known anymore. I can't let this happen and it is my
    right to do so, whether you like the image or not. \r\nBTW: This image is not
    \"generic\" at all. It may not win a contest for professional photographies, but
    it is at least very special to me, since it is a very rare finding of signs that
    survived from East Germany. It's not something you can find on every corner here
    in Germany and it took me a very long time to track one of those signs down. "
  created: '2009-04-14 12:54:31'
- author:
    name: mlvr
  body: "Ralf, why not feel honoured that he choosed to use your image? I am sure
    that you at one some stage have used other peoples images as reference, for presentation
    etc. \r\n\r\nBut most importantly - why didn't you email or PM him regarding this
    concern? Why did you have to jump on the bandwagon of critique against this first
    time poster at the forums. I am not a regular here since some time ago so I am
    not sure if this is a common way of treating people - I hope that's not the case
    since it's very unsympathetic!\r\n\r\nI am sure you've done one helluva job regarding
    your research and I am glad that there are people like you doing this kind of
    stuff with engagement as only investment (and no payment) I also think that's
    the spirit of aentan's writing as well. No matter my subjective view on the actual
    content.\r\n\r\n\r\n-\r\nMax "
  created: '2009-04-14 13:33:22'
- author:
    name: SanderB
    picture: 114771
  body: "@jabez Thanks for the mention, appreciated!\r\n\r\n@AenTan Thank you for
    creating an article about signage typefaces. When it comes to designing signs
    using type you must make a difference between its surroundings in which the signs/wayfinding
    systems will be placed. Typefaces like ClearView and Interstate can work beautifully
    for road signs but will not work so good at for instance hospital wayfinding.
    Therefore it is difficult to compile a list of typefaces that will work under
    all conditions.\r\n\r\nFrom my findings, these are (some of) the characteristics
    of a good signage typeface:\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>Usage in a clear and straightforward
    design</li>\r\n<li>Easy recognizable letterforms</li>\r\n<li>Large x-height</li>\r\n<li>Positive
    letter spacing to enhance the visual appearance</li>\r\n<li>The typeface includes
    a package of many different weights</li>\r\n</ul>"
  created: '2009-04-14 13:50:42'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: "<cite>Ralf, why not feel honoured that he choosed to use your image? I am
    sure that you at one some stage have used other peoples images as reference, for
    presentation etc.</cite>\r\n\r\nListen. It's Ralf's image, he is it's copyright
    holder, and he does not have to justify that others can not use it. If you want
    to use other peoples copyrighted work, then you ask before hand. Using other peoples
    work fall under 'fair use' doctrine (will vary from territory to territory) and
    AenTan's blog entry is most certainly not fair use. Further I find it very unbecoming
    of you Max to bring this laissez faire attitude to this forum where we designers
    have enough trouble as it is informing people that theft of our intellectual property
    is not 'all right'.\r\n\r\n/Claus"
  created: '2009-04-14 14:18:23'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "That's like only having four flavors of jelly beans and you want chocolate.
    Fine for highway and airport signage, I guess, but extremely limiting. \r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n\r\n[[http://www.thefontry.com|<em>...from
    the Fontry </em>]]"
  created: '2009-04-14 18:24:09'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: Let he who is without sin cast the first stone.
  created: '2009-04-14 18:40:32'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "Let he who is without sin cast the first stone.\r\n\r\n?\r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n\r\n[[http://www.thefontry.com|<em>...from
    the Fontry </em>]]"
  created: '2009-04-14 18:46:37'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>Typefaces like ClearView and Interstate can work beautifully for road
    signs but will not work so good at for instance hospital wayfinding. Therefore
    it is difficult to compile a list of typefaces that will work under all conditions.</cite>\r\n\r\nIn
    which way do you think the type design should differ between traffic signs and
    hospital signage? Sure there are some specific problems like retroreflectivity
    of road signs and limited space on hospital wall, but in general I think the problems
    and solutions are pretty similar. You want the information to be readable as soon
    as possible, even if the letters are small/far away (which has the same effect).
    If you have a typeface that achieves this, it should work in almost every signage
    situation (with a little tweaking of maybe spacing and stroke width).\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-14 18:46:56'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "There are aesthetics to consider beyond readablity. Your font should work
    with the architecture and the landscaping. \r\n\r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n\r\n[[http://www.thefontry.com|<em>...from
    the Fontry </em>]]"
  created: '2009-04-14 18:59:11'
- author:
    name: mlvr
  body: "Clauses. You mean bringing my attitude to this forum where designers have
    enough trouble to be uptight and unwelcoming to a new guy that actually tries
    to contribute to the forums? And yes, he might have violated copyright laws. I
    just think people should relax a bit about this kind of copyright violations.
    He's not trying to make money out of this, and seriously how many c violations
    have one been guilty of during years in design school, running a blog etc? Visit
    deisgnobserver.com and I guess they are guilty of a few, or newstoday, or similar.
    I know it is like swearing in church talking like this in forum for typedesigners
    that struggle hard to make a living out of their hard work. And it's not that
    I'm not against copyright, but i am pro common sense and I can't see the point
    of making this public in the forums (and being more unwelcoming) instead of just
    sending a mail about this. And as for me thinking ralf \"should be ashamed\" I
    just got angry about everyone being pricks towards aentan and I got it out on
    the last one saying something. I owe him an apology: I am sorry Ralf!\r\n\r\n\r\n-\r\nMax"
  created: '2009-04-14 19:16:55'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">in general I think the problems and solutions are pretty similar.\r\n\r\nRalf,
    I'm surprised you say that. The problem of reading road signs at night is a pretty
    special problem, not shared by hospital corridors, which are generally well lit,
    at least in richer countries. \r\n\r\nReading a sign at night, whether it is reflective
    or not, is an added problem because of low light. The eye just doesn't work as
    well at low light, particularly for older drivers. As I remember this was the
    main 'brief' for James M's Clearview: it had to work better than alternatives
    at night for older drivers. \r\n\r\nAlso in a hospital you can just move closer
    to a sign. You don't have to worry about missing an exit, so there isn't the same
    degree of demand for clarity at a distance.\r\n\r\nI would think that for hospital
    signage there would be much more leeway on readability under adverse conditions. "
  created: '2009-04-14 19:32:20'
- author:
    name: AenTan
    picture: 117153
  body: "Hey Ralf. I'm from Singapore and only saw your reply a few minutes ago. I
    chose your image because it is the perfect image for the post.\r\n\r\n<em>If I
    let AenTan use it, it\u2019s likely gonna get linked and re-blogged by others
    and soon the source will not even be known anymore.</em>\r\n\r\nOk, tell me the
    difference between that happening beginning from your site and mine. The moment
    I included it in my post, it has already happened. Or should I say the moment
    you put in online.\r\n\r\nIt's the perfect shot and I love it and many of your
    other photos. I want to tell people that you are the photographer. You will have
    to DMCA me to stop me from doing that. AND IT'S NOT FOR MONEY."
  created: '2009-04-14 20:00:32'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "@William\r\nI am aware of the different lighting environments of road signs
    and hospitol corridors, but I was asking about actual type design decisions for
    these situations. And I really think that those design decisions are not really
    different if you design a typeface for a road sign or a hospital sign. I don't
    think I would make a different design for \"low light\" or \"older viewers\" or
    \"hospital corridors\". I would just make it the most legible I can, and this
    is mostly about the skeleton of the letters, since weights, widths and spacing
    are easily changable with MM technology.  But I am really curious to know, if
    there should be different design decisions made for road signs and hospital signs.
    (And I don't mean decisions about \"style\")\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>You will have to
    DMCA me to stop me from doing that. AND IT\u2019S NOT FOR MONEY.</cite>\r\n\r\nUploading
    a copyrighted image to your website without permission is a copyright infringement
    according to the law of almost all countries. Whether your site is commercial
    or not. By the way: Your site is commercial since you are offering design work
    under the company name \"Communication Analysts Pte Ltd\" on the same website.
    And I think you are very well aware what a copyright is, since you claim a copyright
    yourself on all your pages: \"\xA9 2009 COMA. All Rights Reserved\". \r\nWell,
    I reserve the right not to show my image on your site and ask you one last time:
    Remove it by April, 17. 2009 or I will legally enforce it. \r\n\r\nBy the way:
    If you're looking for a replacement for my image: Just check out Wikipedia Commons:\r\nhttp://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:Road_signs_by_country\r\nThere
    are thousands of road sign images with a Public Domain or Creative Commons license. "
  created: '2009-04-14 20:56:07'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"There are aesthetics to consider beyond readablity.\"\r\nSo close...\r\n\"Your
    font should work with the architecture and the landscaping.\"\r\n...yet so far.
    :)\r\n\r\nYou can't mean that. The difference in needs of way finding signage
    is not about architecture or landscaping, unless those too are not about the people
    using them. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-04-14 22:05:49'
- author:
    name: Yehan
    picture: 112677
  body: "Oh dear..looks like this is getting alot of stick:( I'm from Singapore..and
    our street signs weren't always in Rotis. The stuff they use on the roads and
    expressways is not rotis..so driving around isn't that terrible I can assure you.\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-15 08:35:27'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "<em>You can\u2019t mean that. The difference in needs of way finding signage
    is not about architecture or landscaping, unless those too are not about the people
    using them.</em>\r\n\r\nTry telling that to an architect. \r\n\r\nA clear reading
    sign is almost always the primary goal. But, wayfaring signs in an architectural
    setting, should not detract from the aesthetics of their surroundings. \r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n\r\n[[http://www.thefontry.com|<em>...from
    the Fontry </em>]]"
  created: '2009-04-15 13:12:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">if there should be different design decisions made for road signs and hospital
    signs\r\n\r\nBasically, I think the hospital situation is a lot less demanding
    in some ways, and so has a lot of scope for variety. You're not flying down the
    corridor at 60 miles an hour, so you don't have to make a decision before you
    get close to the sign. And you're not looking at the sign with a flashlight at
    night, at a distance. \r\n\r\nFor the specific demands of the highway see the
    [[http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/12/magazine/12fonts-t.html?pagewanted=1|New York
    Times article]] and [[http://clearviewhwy.com/ResearchAndDesign/index.php|The
    Clearview Highway web site]]. \r\n\r\nI do think there are lessons that can be
    carried over for other signage from what Meeker & Montalbano did, but I doubt
    they are really a requirement for successful signage in less demanding situations.
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-15 13:29:07'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "You might not be flying down a corridor at 60 mph in a hospital, or airport
    terminal (a much better example), but you would still want to be able to read
    a sign at a proper and reasonable distance. Nothing about the research we did
    had anything to do with speed. It was all about viewing distance. Now if you are
    traveling at 60 mph and you can read a sign at a greater distance, you will have
    more time to react, but it is all about increasing the viewing distance.\r\n\r\nWhat
    is a more or less demanding situation? I dunno, but some airport terminals I've
    been in are a helluva lot more dangerous than some roads I've driven down."
  created: '2009-04-15 16:34:54'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "James, a couple of things. \r\n\r\nFirst, as I noted, I think other designers
    can benefit from the superb work what you and Meeker did. The bit I found most
    interesting, because somewhat surprising, is that a medium weight is more legible
    at a distance than a bold one. The 'reading' of more white in the counters is
    more important than a heavier stroke.\r\n\r\nSecond, what is a better example
    depends on what you want to exemplify. The airport is more like the highway, because
    the way many--not all--are designed, you need to see signs at greater distances.
    The hospital less so. That's why I said it seems to me you have more leeway in
    a hospital situation--less need for legibility at a distance. \r\n\r\nI once was
    in the El Paso airport, and its signage is all in FB Eagle Bold or Black, including
    very bold and eccentric lower case. Somehow in that context it looks Tex-Mex and
    wonderfully lively and expressive. It is all legible at the distances you need
    to view it in that small corridor-style airport. But it would be rotten on highway
    signs.  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-15 17:24:55'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Try telling that to an architect.\"\r\nNo, you do it. I already had this
    conversation with my ex-architect's friend. He asks what makes me think I can
    design my own house? I ask what makes him think he can design my house? Then it's
    time for weather and sports. \r\n\r\n\"But, wayfaring signs in an architectural
    setting, should not detract from the aesthetics of their surroundings.\"\r\nThey
    souldn't but what's the priority?\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-15 20:12:03'
- author:
    name: AenTan
    picture: 117153
  body: '@ Ralf. I changed the image. Ever considered creative commons?'
  created: '2009-04-15 21:12:11'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "\u201CThey souldn\u2019t but what\u2019s the priority?\u201D\r\n\r\nWhat
    ever the client wants to take priority. The only time people really want to notice
    signs is when they are relevant to them. Like any other design, signs must fit
    in their environment. \r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n\r\n[[http://www.thefontry.com|<em>...from
    the Fontry </em>]]"
  created: '2009-04-15 21:44:05'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>airport is more like the highway, because the way many\u2014not all\u2014are
    designed, you need to see signs at greater distances. The hospital less so. </cite>\r\n\r\nBut
    distance is compensated by the type size. A small sign with small type sizes can
    be the same reading experience as a huge interstate sign. And if I am bleeding
    and rush into a hospital I want those signs to be readable as soon as possible
    ... ;-)\r\nSo the distance itself is not really relevant for those typeface. As
    James said: it's how you can design the typeface in a way in which the viewing
    distance is increased compared to other typefaces set in the same size. \r\n\r\nBTW:
    James, do you know why bright text on dark background is considered \"positive\"
    contrast when in comes to traffic signs in the US? Usually in graphic design \"positive\"
    and \"negative\" would be used the other way around. And also in Europe when it
    comes to traffic signs. \r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>@ Ralf. I changed the image. Ever considered
    creative commons?</cite>\r\n\r\nOf course. On my Wiki I have written hundreds
    of articles released under Creative Commons license. But for images that are special
    to me, I invite everyone to view them on my page but I reserve the right that
    they are not re-used on other pages. "
  created: '2009-04-16 10:16:02'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Ralf, I'm not buying your arguments because I've seen signage work fine,
    including as I mentioned at El Paso Airport, with type that is not optimal for
    distance viewing. Distance recognition just isn't as important in many situations,
    though it's paramount for highway signs. \r\n\r\nAnd entry signs--such as those
    directing you to Emergency--can be just made bigger. The cost factor of big highway
    signs just isn't the same for a few entry signs in a building--which you'd probably
    want to make bigger in any case.\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2009-04-16 16:49:39'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "There is a limit to how large exterior signage for hospitals, office complexes,
    etc. can be. These sizes are established by right of ways and city governments.
    These laws are not generally waved even for hospitals. Highways have only the
    restricions set by the governing body of the highway which are not answerable
    to city government or codes.\r\n\r\nThe most important consideration between archiectural
    wayfaring signs and highway signs (beyond scale) is speed. Because you only have
    a limited amount of time between reading a sign and taking action on a highway,
    visual distance is much more important. I don't do 60+ mph in hospital corridors.\r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n\r\n[[http://www.thefontry.com|<em>...from
    the Fontry </em>]]"
  created: '2009-04-16 18:13:04'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>BTW: James, do you know why bright text on dark background is considered
    \u201Cpositive\u201D contrast when in comes to traffic signs in the US? Usually
    in graphic design \u201Cpositive\u201D and \u201Cnegative\u201D would be used
    the other way around. And also in Europe when it comes to traffic signs.</cite>\r\n\r\nRalf,\r\n\r\nWhen
    we were first confronted with this terminology we were quite confused. As far
    as I can tell, from what traffic researchers tell me, is that it has something
    to do with the number one gets when calculating the reflection of the image. A
    positive contrast yields a positive number, negative contrast yields a negative
    number.\r\n\r\nWhen we were naming the different ClearviewHwy fonts, Phil Garvey,
    one of the researchers suggested that we use W to indicate White letters, and
    B to indicate black letters, rather than use Positive or Negative in the actual
    name."
  created: '2009-04-16 18:52:50'
date: '2009-04-12 17:12:39'
title: Popular Typefaces used in Signages

---
