---
author:
  name: west_46
body: "Hi,\r\n I have a problem with (and now I try to explain it in my best Englisch)
  a single last paragraph word on a new line. I work in InDesign CS3 and I don't want
  that the last word of a paragraph starts on a knew line. I now the ways of correcting
  this manually, but I am looking for a way to prevent this. Any one a good idea /tip?\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Hallo Hans,\r\n\r\nyou can use GREP to solve this issue.\r\nIn the search/replace
    window (in InDesign CS \u22653), there\u2019s a tab called \u2018GREP\u2019. Search
    for <code>\\s\\w+?\\W+?$</code>\r\n\r\n<code>\\s</code> is a placeholder for \u2018any
    space character\u2019. (That\u2019s the last word space in your paragraph.)\r\n<code>\\w+?</code>
    stands for \u2018one or more word characters\u2019. (Matches the last word.)\r\n<code>\\W+?</code>
    is for \u2018one or more non-word characters\u2019: it matches the dot, but also
    the question mark, exclamation mark etc. Why \u2018one or more\u2019? Because
    your paragraph could end with a closing quotation mark <strong>and</strong> a
    punctuation mark. Maybe there\u2019s even an additional superscript character,
    indicating a footnote. \r\nThe final <code>$</code> stands for: \u2018look at
    paragraph endings only\u2019.*\r\n\r\nNow you can easily add the \u2018no break\u2019
    property (directly or via character style) to the hits.\r\nF\r\n\r\n*) Maybe there\u2019s
    a more elegant way; I\u2019m still getting used to GREP. Love to hear ideas."
  created: '2009-04-13 14:14:25'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Upgrade to CS4 :-)\r\n\r\nThe paragraph formatting routines in CS3 (and earlier
    versions) contain a somewhat odd artefact, that tends to create such last word
    endings more often than statistically probable. CS4 uses a different formatting."
  created: '2009-04-13 15:02:53'
- author:
    name: Ken Messenger
    picture: 111387
  body: "You could also try using the paragraph Keep Options (cmd-option-K)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/keep-options_3885.gif]"
  created: '2009-04-13 15:07:03'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "theunis said:\r\n>   The paragraph formatting routines in CS3 (and earlier
    versions) \r\n>   contain a somewhat odd artefact, that tends to create such \r\n>
    \  last word endings more often than statistically probable. \r\n>   CS4 uses
    a different formatting.\r\n\r\nmaybe cs5 will contain a setting to avoid such
    ugliness automatically.\r\nor cs6.  always gotta save those reasons to get people
    to buy upgrades.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-13 15:41:32'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Ken, with the \u2018Keep\u2019 options, one can address a different problem:
    avoiding orphans and widows, i.e. keeping the first/last <em>n</em> lines of one
    paragraph within the same column or frame. (It\u2019s not a very sophisticated
    approach, but it might be of value in some situations.)\r\n\r\nBowerbird, your
    sarcasm aside, please define \u2018ugliness\u2019. A single word in the last line
    of a paragraph is often the lesser evil, depending on column width, word length/language
    etc. If there was an automatism, it better should be very intelligent \u2013 and
    customizable."
  created: '2009-04-13 16:14:39'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "I can add nothing to the InDesign discussion. \r\n\r\nBut I am curious to
    know why a single word on a last line of a para is considered undesirable. I have
    never felt this to be a bad thing except on some occasions during my stint as
    an advertising type director. Most book typographers and compositors I've worked
    with do not see this as a thing to be gotten rid of. At a given size and measure
    and face, we will often be faced with a single-word exit line on a para. I do
    not like to see very short single words in that position, for sometimes they can
    be shorter than the para indent, and that does look bad. Otherwise, let them flow.\r\n\r\nAnd
    what should be done about an exceptionally long word in such a position? How should,
    say, the word \"typographically\" be handled if it is the last word in the para
    and starts a line?\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2009-04-13 18:21:28'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "florian said:\r\n>   Bowerbird, your sarcasm aside\r\n\r\nwait!  no fair!
    \ you can't ignore the best part!           :+)\r\n\r\n\r\n>   please define \u2018ugliness\u2019.\r\n\r\nwell,
    in this case, i'm referring to the topic-at-hand,\r\nwhich is a one-word line
    at the end of a paragraph...\r\n\r\nbut you and i both know there are all kinds
    of ugliness.\r\n\r\nstill, let's limit it to this one thing for right now, ok?\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  A single word in the last line of a paragraph is \r\n>   often the lesser evil,
    depending on column width, \r\n>   word length/language etc. \r\n\r\ni will agree
    with you on that.\r\n\r\nso where does that leave us?\r\n\r\nare you implying
    that it would be beyond adobe's ability\r\nto puzzle through the various aspects
    to get a solution?\r\n\r\ni will agree with you on that too.  (see?, that's sarcasm!)\r\n\r\nbut
    seriously, you would think that adobe would have\r\ncome to the realization that
    this is a concern in layout,\r\nand they would have done _something_ to address
    it...\r\n\r\nwouldn't you?\r\n\r\nand heck, maybe adobe does have something, i
    don't\r\neven own a copy of indesign, maybe it's right _there_,\r\nburied in some
    preference dialog for the cognoscenti.\r\n\r\nor maybe they've never thought about
    it.\r\n\r\nor maybe they've thought about it -- a whole lot --\r\nand they've
    come to the conclusion that it's simply\r\ntoo darn complicated, and it's been
    the subject of\r\nmuch infighting within the indesign design team,\r\nand it's
    gotten to the point that nobody even dares\r\nto _mention_ it anymore, because
    it just means that\r\neverybody is going to start yelling at everybody else,\r\nand
    then they all go home and kick their poor dogs...\r\n\r\ni don't know.\r\n\r\nmaybe
    someone from adobe will come tell us what's up.\r\nseems like they should have
    an evangelist here, right?,\r\nlistening to the customers who buy and use their
    stuff...\r\n\r\n\r\n>   If there was an automatism, it better should be \r\n>
    \  very intelligent \u2013 and customizable.\r\n\r\nyou want \"very intelligent\"
    _and_ \"customizable\"?  both?\r\nyou're right.  adobe can't do that...        ;+)\r\n\r\non
    the other hand, how does your grep approach do both?\r\nseems to me that it's
    neither intelligent nor customizable...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\np.s.  on a serious
    note, i think it'd be easy enough to create\r\na routine that would do the right
    thing some 99% of the time.\r\nif you wanna be really productive, we could brainstorm
    it now.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-13 18:35:34'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "You have a point, Will.\r\nThe GREP query can be refined to account for that:\r\n<code>\\s\\w{1,4}\\W+?$</code>\r\n\r\n<code>\\w{1,4}</code>
    is for \u2018one or up to four adjacent word characters\u2019, or, in plain English,
    \u2018words with less than 5 characters\u2019."
  created: '2009-04-13 18:45:18'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "will said:\r\n>   But I am curious to know why a single word \r\n>   on a
    last line of a para is considered undesirable.\r\n\r\nit's only undesirable if
    it's ugly.\r\n\r\nand, for the most part, it's ugly if it's fairly short...\r\nfirst
    of all, that makes it look stubby, by definition.\r\n\r\nwhat's worst is when
    it's about the same length as\r\n(or shorter than) the paragraph-indented next
    line,\r\nwhere it then causes some attentional confusion...\r\n\r\nthere might
    be other cases where it's ugly too, but\r\ni trust that you will know them when
    you see them.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   Most book typographers and compositors I\u2019ve
    \r\n>   worked with do not see this as a thing to be gotten rid of.\r\n\r\nin
    the situations i outline above, they would/should.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   At a given size
    and measure and face, we will often \r\n>   be faced with a single-word exit line
    on a para.\r\n\r\nthat's the reason you use multi-line breaking routines,\r\nto
    avoid the situations where you'd get such ugliness...\r\n\r\n\r\n>   I do not
    like to see very short single words in that position, \r\n>   for sometimes they
    can be shorter than the para indent, \r\n>   and that does look bad. Otherwise,
    let them flow.\r\n\r\nok, so we're in agreement.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   And what should
    be done about an exceptionally long word\r\n>   in such a position? How should,
    say, the word \u201Ctypographically\u201D \r\n>   be handled if it is the last
    word in the para and starts a line?\r\n\r\nthat's fine, typographically.\r\n\r\nbut
    a one-word line in the _middle_ of a paragraph can be bad,\r\nif you do justification,
    because there's no place to put the slop.\r\n\r\nif you're hyphenating at the
    same time -- with a short measure,\r\nand justification, you'd better be hyphenating
    too -- you'd then\r\ntry to hyphenate that baby across two lines, to get some
    spaces.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-13 18:48:51'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "I've often found that a very short last word looks bad, particularly if it
    is shorter than the following paragraph indent. \r\n\r\nThe problem with a \"no
    last word on a line\" rule, whether done manually or by computer, it that there
    are exceptions. If the last word is exceptional long, it should be able to stand
    alone. And sometimes there will be two or three two letter words, and they can
    look bad. The computer, or the rule, will not deal with these."
  created: '2009-04-13 20:02:01'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "don said:\r\n>   sometimes there will be two or three two letter words, \r\n>
    \  and they can look bad. The computer, or the rule, \r\n>   will not deal with
    these.\r\n\r\ndepends on how sophisticated we \r\nmake the rule, or the computer...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-13 22:15:46'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I'd echo what Will said. Moreover, we'll even hyphenate the last word of
    a paragraph, unless the customer specifically prohibits it. If they prohibit it,
    they pay the price of gappier word spacing.\r\n\r\nOur rule is that the end of
    a paragraph must be visually longer than the paragraph indent of the following
    paragraph, again as Will said. You can find hyphenated words that have more characters
    taken down than two words, e.g., \"of it.\" If I had to, I'd break \"preconceived;\"
    \"-conceived\" is significantly longer than any reasonable paragraph indent.\r\n\r\nThere
    are places where I'd work real hard to avoid this -- right before a subhead, for
    example, especially a centered one. \r\n\r\n* * *\r\n\r\nI keep saying it, but
    there are always compromises to the \"do nots.\" Usually, they come out of \"tight
    and even word spacing.\" It isn't that comps are lazy, they are honoring the more
    basic \"do\" of tight & even word spacing. As always, there are those who speculate
    and theorize, and those of us who work for a living."
  created: '2009-04-13 23:07:44'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "charles_e said:\r\n>   I\u2019d echo what Will said. \r\n\r\nwill was echoing
    what everyone else said, right?\r\n\r\n\r\n>   It isn\u2019t that comps are lazy,
    they are honoring \r\n>   the more basic \u201Cdo\u201D of tight & even word spacing.\r\n\r\nwell,
    in the absence of specific examples,\r\nit's hard to say, one way or the other,
    but...\r\n\r\ni would stress that no one is saying that\r\nyou should not \"honor\"
    the \"more basic\"\r\nrules that call for tight, even word-spacing.\r\n\r\nas
    i said explicitly above, that's why you\r\nutilize multi-line breaking routines,
    so\r\nyou don't get yourself painted into a corner\r\nwhere you'll sacrifice one
    rule for another...\r\n\r\n\r\n>   As always, there are those who \r\n>   speculate
    and theorize, and \r\n>   those of us who work for a living.\r\n\r\nas always...
    \     :+)\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-14 07:04:14'
- author:
    name: west_46
  body: "Hi again,\r\n\r\nThanks for your ractions.\r\n\r\nI have no problem with
    a longer single word on a last line. But I don't like a short word (about 5 characters)
    on that position. I use left alingment and I like regular hyphenation. In my opinion
    the right gap/indent is to big when a single word on a last line is to short.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    I had to high expectations of InDesign. But there is nothing wrong with doing
    it manually. I only hoped to save some time.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-14 09:01:57'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: Hans, did you try the GREP?
  created: '2009-04-14 10:06:46'
- author:
    name: west_46
  body: "Hi Florian,\r\n\r\nNot yet, but I am certainly going to try this. I am not
    familiar with the GREP, so thanks for your input.\r\n\r\nI am also interested
    in other opinions about single words on al last line as being something to avoid
    or not? What are the typographical 'rules' about this?"
  created: '2009-04-14 10:42:46'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "I think most general rules or thoughts about this have all already been mentioned:
    \r\nWhen working with indents, the ending line better should be longer than the
    indent below. \r\nIn justified setting, the most important aspect is even spacing.
    Applying a \u2018no-break\u2019 attribute to the last two words might counteract
    that goal.\r\nCertain circumstances (e.g. before subheads, as Charles mentioned,
    or your example with repeating words; \u2018zijn\u2019) are especially unfortunate
    and might demand a workaround.\r\nIn ragged-right settings, things can be handled
    more permissively. If it\u2019s the last paragraph of the column or page, I try
    to achieve an ending line with more than one word, ideally filling half the column
    width or more."
  created: '2009-04-14 11:16:45'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite>I use left alingment and I like regular hyphenation. In my opinion
    the right gap/indent is to big when a single word on a last line is to short.</cite>\r\n\r\nAh,
    if you're setting flush-left/ragged-right text, then you can try applying InDesign's
    \"Balance Ragged Lines\" command (found in the menu off the Paragraph palette,
    or the menu off the Control panel when the text tool is active). \r\n\r\nAs the
    name implies, this command only takes effect when the text is unjustified.\r\n\r\nYou
    may or may not like the overall results for the paragraph, but it will fill out
    a disproportionately short last line.\r\n\r\n-- Kent."
  created: '2009-04-14 13:21:47'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "west_46 said:\r\n>   What are the typographical \u2019rules\u2019 about this?\r\n\r\nwell,
    the closest you'll get to a \"rule\" is bringhurst, who says this:\r\n>   2.4.2.
    \ avoid leaving the stub end of a hyphenated word, or any \r\n>   word shorter
    than four letters, as the last line of a paragraph.\r\n\r\nbut bringhurst also
    says you must always trust your own judgment.\r\n\r\nhe even ends the section
    on hyphenation and pagination with this:\r\n>   2.4.11.  avoid any and all rules
    of hyphenation and pagination\r\n>   that fail to serve the needs of the text\r\n\r\nso
    i'd say you have the latitude to be more or less strict if you like.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-14 20:45:28'
- author:
    name: pica pusher
    picture: 111287
  body: "The hard and fast rule of never allowing a single word on a line is often
    imposed by somebody in Editorial or up the chain of command who once heard that
    one word on a line is a bad idea. So the question of whether it's a good rule
    is unfortunately not left to the designer.\r\n\r\nI think the grep as it is now
    will miss situations with multiple punctuation marks at the end of the paragraph,
    or other unusual characters...\r\n\r\nMaybe grep\r\n\r\n\\s(?=\\S+$)\r\n\r\nand
    replace with non-breaking space?"
  created: '2009-04-15 19:29:07'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Alas, P.P. GREP is kind of magic but your expression is not valid (non-GREPpers
    are excused from reading on). The lookahead stuff does not allow variable lengths.\r\n\r\nYou
    need the 2nd part to be variable;\r\n\r\nSearch: \\s(\\S+)$\r\n\r\nReplace: ~s$1\r\n\r\nmight
    work -- but again, it'll happily swallow everything at the end of a line, no matter
    how long the word.\r\n\r\nPers'nally, I like to do this stuff by hand, so I can
    choose between either running in (to gain a line on a page), or let it run out
    with a very modest tracking, making the last line longer."
  created: '2009-04-15 20:40:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I think a bigger problem with the last word in a paragraph is in justified
    copy where the h&j setting allows letterspacing.\r\n\r\nSo what happens is that
    the last line of a paragraph is set flush left, with no letterspacing of course,
    and the adjacent lines may be quite letterspaced. I would apply extra tracking
    manually to even out the discrepancy."
  created: '2009-04-15 22:09:03'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Just to throw in another $0.02:\r\n\r\n@Nick, if you can see any letterspacing
    (for justification) at all, it is too much.\r\n\r\n@pica pusher, I have been known
    to spend considerable time going over with designers, or editors if necessary,
    the results of such a rule. Sometimes they insist, and we do as they wish. In
    such cases, we also try to make sure our name isn't listed as on the copyright
    page as the typesetter. Telling them that sometimes gets their attention.\r\n\r\nTheunis
    brings up an interesting point -- reasonably often, you have to make or loose
    a line for pagination. While I'd still not have the last line of a paragraph shorter
    than the paragraph indent, I will either take up or bring down a word to make/loose
    a line."
  created: '2009-04-15 22:32:32'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > In such cases, we also try to make sure our name isn\u2019t listed
    as on the copyright page as the typesetter. Telling them that sometimes gets their
    attention.</cite>\r\n\r\nI have used such a ploy in other situations as well:
    \"I will gladly make the [inane] changes you request to your cover, I only ask
    that you make sure that I *do not* get a credit line, as I have a reputation to
    uphold.\" ;-)\r\n\r\n-- K."
  created: '2009-04-15 23:30:37'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "I've done the same thing as Charles and Kent: take no credit for work I feel
    is not up to snuff because of \"rules\" imposed by a client.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2009-04-16 04:27:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>@Nick, if you can see any letterspacing (for justification) at all, it
    is too much.</em>\r\n\r\nNot all typography is book work, Charles.\r\n\r\nBut
    speaking of book typography and wide columns, what do you do when the last line
    of a paragraph is flush left with \"normal\" word space widths, and just about
    every other line has much wider word spaces? Don't you think that looks odd?"
  created: '2009-04-16 05:48:57'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>what do you do when the last line of a paragraph is flush left with
    \u201Cnormal\u201D word space widths, and just about every other line has much
    wider word spaces? Don\u2019t you think that looks odd?</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, you're
    right. And it does happen. The frequency depends on the text of course, but also
    on the layout program. For instance, I find that InDesign does this -- and other
    infelicities -- if (1) you use the paragraph composer, and (2) you don't get good
    values for min-ideal-\"not honored\" (aka max) spacing. The \"best\" values can
    change a bit with the size of the type and the measure. \r\n\r\nNot to pick on
    InDesign, TeX had a its oddities too. The penalty for increasing the word space
    was the same as for decreasing the word space, on a percentage basis. Well, using
    real numbers, if you set the minimum spaceband to 180 and the maximum (which TeX
    somewhat honors) to 400, using any value other than 290 as \"ideal\" (halfway
    in between) would skew the results, based on change penalties computed as a percentage.
    But 290 is too big; 240 is more like it. Since using TeX with these parameters
    \"encouraged\" adding space to justify, we wrote another routine adding a demerit
    for setting more lines that absolutely needed in a paragraph. The value you used
    for this demerit would control the spacing behavior.\r\n\r\nToo much information,
    I know. The point is, for setting extended text, you have to understand how your
    layout program works, & adapt it to your needs/desires."
  created: '2009-04-16 13:10:09'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> @Nick, if you can see any letterspacing (for justification) at all, it
    is too much.\r\n\r\nI think Nick does newspaper work, and there narrow columns,
    combined with the inane editor's idea of insetting a photo into half to a third
    of that column, and you will definitely get letterspacing that you can see. In
    some cases, it is too much.\r\n\r\nThe problem with Nick's solution to this (letterspacing
    the stub) is that design on the newspaper seldom happens within the production
    schedule. It is too rushed to get the damn page on the press. Going back and tracking
    a stub is not going to get priority."
  created: '2009-04-16 18:27:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...inane editor...</em>\r\n\r\nMore likely a designer/art director who
    breaks up the rigidity of the grid by having an image straddle a gutter. So, not
    so much an image that is a fraction of a column, but an image that is one and
    a bit columns, or two and a bit columns, etc.\r\n\r\nIt's not unusual, given the
    ease with which layout applications can cause text to wrap around a clipping path
    or picture box.\r\n\r\nAnd not just an image. It could be a pull-quote that's
    being wrapped around. Or a drop cap.\r\n\r\nIt's a design issue for any kind of
    publication that has justified body copy, but of course, if you're going to wrap
    text round an image, you should be extra careful with how it breaks."
  created: '2009-04-16 19:01:17'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "in the must-reflow-to-current-viewport online world,\r\nyour program must
    adjust to any possible line-width,\r\nand there is no \"i'll check exceptions
    manually\" option.\r\n\r\nand yes, i agree with nick: if the next-to-last line
    of a\r\nparagraph has a larger wordspace due to justification,\r\nit looks weird
    for the last line to have normal wordspace.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-16 20:23:29'
- author:
    name: Carolyn Connors
  body: .
  created: '2009-04-17 16:28:20'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: '"'
  created: '2009-04-17 18:08:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: A
  created: '2009-04-17 18:47:00'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: z
  created: '2009-04-17 21:33:07'
date: '2009-04-13 12:36:14'
title: Prevent a single last paragraph word on a new line

---
