---
author:
  name: Sye
  picture: 131821
body: "i seem to remember somewhere here either hrant or sii suggesting licensing
  fonts via subscription, but i have no idea how to find those discussions, so here
  are my thoughts on the topic.\r\n\r\ni have two situations where i think this could
  be really useful.\r\n\r\n1) i am a poor designer who wants awesome type but cannot
  afford to buy families outright, so i go to my foundry of choice and sign up to
  a monthly subscription deal not unlike what [[http://www.emusic.com| emusic]] does
  for music - where for a set monthly fee i can download a certain number of faces,
  each month my account gets topped up.\r\n\r\n2) i am from a community group/non-profit/church/cheapskate
  company and don't have the funds to licenses quality fonts for the number of users
  i actually need, so i enter into a subscription deal with the foundry where they
  charge me a monthly/yearly (whatever) fee to use the fonts on a larger number of
  computers. eg: my church might need a family of fonts to use for it's identity,
  but because of the nature of a church lots of the materials are created by volunteers
  on their own computers, so standard licensing would be too expensive and limiting,
  but a subscription fee might be workable. \r\n\r\ni'm sure their are myriad other
  ways this could work, and problems with it, but i suspect they could be overcome.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "ok, so it was mentioned here http://typophile.com/node/51784 by Jens Kutilek\r\n\r\n<cite>
    Perhaps a subscription model would be interesting for people who don\u2019t really
    need the fonts, but want to \u201Ccollect\u201D them as it were (that\u2019s how
    I read Mike\u2019s \u201CI plan on get the rest of Odile and starting in on National.\u201D).\r\n\r\n<cite>
    Receive a new weight every month until the family\u2019s complete and pay the
    discounted package price in monthly instalments :)"
  created: '2009-04-14 09:51:48'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: 'What would be the benefit to vendors if they offered something like this? '
  created: '2009-04-14 18:38:29'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "This has come up a few time. The problems are pricing and piracy. Type designers
    don\u2019t trust end-users to not pirate fonts. It\u2019s likely that people will
    sign up, download the latest original versions of everything (something most pirate
    font collections don\u2019t even offer), cancel the subscription, and keep the
    fonts. That leaves us with two options. One, make up for piracy losses by setting
    a very high price that nobody wants to pay. The other option is font DRM. Font
    DRM has a very nasty history and users hate it. Software developers hate it as
    much or more than users. Adobe has made it clear that it does not want to go down
    the DRM road again, which means that the DRM has to be part of the operating system,
    which is unlikely to happen and would only happen in a way that screws everyone
    involved.\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-14 19:39:13'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: ">>Type designers don\u2019t trust end-users to not pirate fonts.\r\n\r\nType
    designers have already lost that fight. Game over. You either trust your users
    to do the right thing, or you fold up shop and go home."
  created: '2009-04-14 20:46:31'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "james said:\r\n>   Adobe has made it clear that\r\n>   it does not want to
    go down the DRM road again\r\n\r\nhas adobe said that somewhere that you can point
    to?\r\nif so, a u.r.l. would be really great.  thanks...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-14 20:51:29'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I think type designers have to become friends with graphic designers, and
    work together. For our long-time clients, we offer a license that gives them access
    to our entire library for a small yearly fee. Whenever they use our fonts in a
    client project they add the cost of the fonts to the bill. The client licenses
    the font. The designer gets a 10% discount off the price of our font license,
    allowing them to either pass this along to their client or take it as a commission.
    It works great.\r\n\r\nI have brought this up several times to not much interest.
    I bring it up again."
  created: '2009-04-14 21:35:55'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>I have brought this up several times to not much interest. I bring it
    up again.</em>\r\n\r\nSounds good to me, too, James. Thanks for mentioning it
    more than once."
  created: '2009-04-14 22:17:12'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "@DanGayle: no, the war hasn\u2019t been lost to that degree. Even pirates
    don\u2019t have access to the latest versions of everything. -Redacted-\r\n\r\n@Bowerbird:
    Thomas Phinney made the point when he spoke at Typecon 2007. I don\u2019t know
    if it\u2019s come up online, if it has it\u2019s in some old Typophile thread.
    \r\n\r\n@James: I like your idea, but I think many users would only be willing
    to pay the price you were floating for access to something the size of Font Folio
    or even the LT Gold Collection. And that raises another point\u2014aside from
    Adobe, Fontshop, Mono/Linotype, and Veer, how many type vendors even have a collection
    big enough to entice users into subscribing?"
  created: '2009-04-14 22:27:38'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>@James: I like your idea, but I think many users would only be willing
    to pay the price you were floating for access to something the size of Font Folio
    or even the LT Gold Collection. And that raises another point\u2014aside from
    Adobe, Fontshop, Mono/Linotype, and Veer, how many type vendors even have a collection
    big enough to entice users into subscribing?</cite>\r\n\r\nBut I never mentioned
    what the yearly fee was. How can you make that statement without knowing what
    the fee is?  Ultimately it is not about the yearly fee. It is about a partnership
    with certain designers, who respect our work, find it valuable, and want to use
    it.\r\n\r\nAre you a hedgehog or a fox?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-15 04:55:49'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "i think there are a few ways the subscription could work, using the eMusic
    example, it's more buying 'credits' that allow  the user to download a certain
    number of faces.\r\n\r\neg, i wish to purchase fonts from vllg.com, instead of
    just buying font at random when i can afford it, why don't i pay a smaller fee,
    which gets altomatically billed monthly, and then i get a maybe 4 font credits,
    so i can download 4 faces with that months subscription. of course you can have
    different levels of subscription. \r\n\r\nso, in that example, it's just a subscrption
    in the sense of being charge a monthly amount for buy credits.\r\n\r\n@terminaldesign
    - i like the sound of that, and if i had that kind of relationship with a foundry
    it would be great. would you do something similar for a non-profit?"
  created: '2009-04-15 05:22:38'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>But I never mentioned what the yearly fee was.</cite>\r\n\r\nSorry,
    what I meant to say was that I thought that you had brought it up and people weren\u2019t
    willing to go with the price. The old thread is inaccessible due to broken search
    indexes so I\u2019m going by memory and I apologize if I\u2019ve confused things.
    \r\n\r\nThat said, you probably are right about type designers entering into such
    partnerships with designers they trust. But I don\u2019t know if that can work
    on a large scale\u2014there are a heck of a lot of designers out there."
  created: '2009-04-15 05:25:12'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "As it has been brought up, I'll repeat here things I've previously said or
    written in public and online, back when I worked for Adobe....\r\n\r\nAdobe repeatedly
    engineered font DRM schemes and then ditched them over the last 25 years. The
    ones that are public knowledge are (1) the original protection scheme that locked
    Mac Type 1 fonts to specific output devices (discontinued in the early 90s), and
    then (2) the encryption and device-tying approach using PACE technology, developed
    for CID-keyed Type 1 fonts for the Japanese market (phased out starting around
    1999-2000, though Morisawa used it for some years after IIRC).\r\n\r\nThe fonts
    locked to output devices weren't as hard, as I understand it (though that was
    before my time). But once we had fonts that lived on the end users' computer,
    and were accessed in applications, the engineering costs of supporting the encryption
    scheme throughout the workflow were immense, in the multi-millions of dollars.
    Customers were hardly fond of these DRM schemes either, because they got in the
    way of legitimate and reasonable uses of the fonts. Ultimately, Adobe decided
    that DRM for fonts was more trouble than it was worth. There was even a third
    scheme that was fully developed but never deployed....\r\n\r\nI'll never say never,
    and of course I'm not with Adobe today, but it seems mildly improbable that Adobe
    would lead the way back into font DRM today. Not that they are morally opposed,
    but they'd have to be convinced that the benefits outweighed the costs... including
    the \"cost\" of frustrating one's customers.\r\n\r\nToday with font handling being
    done primarily at the OS level, and with so many apps needing to interact with
    fonts (and some bypassing the OS to \"talk\" to the font directly), DRM for fonts
    would be much harder than it was back in the day. Perhaps somebody should go talk
    to the folks at LetterHead Fonts who recently experimented with font DRM for a
    while (http://www.typophile.com/node/30452).\r\n\r\nAlso, on the topics of both
    DRM and font rental, the folks at Morisawa in Japan could be informative. They
    have a long history with DRM, and they have a font rental product called \"Passport,\"
    which is aimed at the student market if I recall correctly.\r\n\r\nPersonally,
    in principle I think that offering a DRM-based rental scheme as an optional alternative
    to traditional permanent licensing is a fine idea (that is, offer the same fonts
    with a choice of licensing models, they can get them without the DRM the \"old
    way\" if they want)... it's just the wee technical details that get in the way.
    But those are some pretty big \"details.\"\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-15 07:19:06'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "thanks thomas.\r\n\r\ninteresting.\r\n\r\ni also think drm for fonts is not
    a good idea.\r\n\r\nthe more i read about the type business, the more i see parallels
    to the music business. \r\n\r\nnowadays, since most music is available digitally,
    and sold digitally, the music companies are having to come up with ways to meet
    customers and try to reduce the affects of piracy.\r\n\r\nfirst, itunes stopped
    putting drm on songs, now the companies themselves are offering high-quality mp3's
    with no drm (at least in australia where sony/bmg have http://www.bandit.fm )
    and saying quite plainly that the mp3's can be used on multiple devices.\r\n\r\nin
    all honesty, is there really that much difference between a music artist investing
    lots of $$$ into making an album and having it sell for $15, which will take them
    a long time to recoup cost without a big following, and a type designer?\r\n\r\ni
    know lots of people will think i'm an idiot, but what if fonts were available
    for roughly set prices like music? \r\n\r\ni mean songs tend to cost around a
    dollar each if sold individually, does that represent the amount of effort and
    money the artist put into making it, no, but it is the standard. what if fonts
    had similar 'standard' prices and could be bought like songs?\r\n\r\none of the
    biggest reason i don't buy more fonts is because of cost. and i believe lots of
    other people are in the same boat. if type was a cheap as music, then i think
    more people would pay for it, just so they can sleep at night.\r\n\r\nit will
    not stop pirates. but if we are honest, pirates are unlikely to ever pay for fonts
    anyway.\r\n\r\ni recently saw an assignment done by a fellow student at my university,
    and when i asked her what font she used, as it looked really nice, she told me,
    since it is a commercial, not-free font, i commented on her having it, and she
    had this guilty look on her face, then she said that it was too expensive to buy,
    so just acquired a copy of it.\r\n\r\nnaturally, as someone who spends lots of
    money (well for my salary) on type, i was saddended. i told her off, in a gentle
    way.\r\n\r\nanyway, my point, if type was treated like music is, then i think
    more would be sold and the market might increase.\r\n\r\nimangine if itunes had
    a 'fonts' tab. that would be awesome."
  created: '2009-04-15 12:13:10'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>in all honesty, is there really that much difference between a music
    artist investing lots of $$$ into making an album and having it sell for $15,
    which will take them a long time to recoup cost without a big following, and a
    type designer?</cite>\r\n\r\nYes. Most font designers don\u2019t have someone
    else paying the production costs. Most font designers can\u2019t count on selling
    a few million pop fonts to subsidize the rest. Most font designers don\u2019t
    have massive back catalogs selling a few million units a year to subsidize new
    work. Font designers don\u2019t have touring and merchandise revenue. Music also
    has a much larger market than fonts. Between albums, mp3s, and ringtones music
    has a potential market of billions of consumers. The market for fonts is much,
    much smaller.\r\n\r\nThere are some people experimenting with inexpensive fonts.
    Jos Buivenga seems to be doing well with it, and IIRC Chank Diesel has said he
    does well with an array of pricing and license options. But some other designers
    have released inexpensive fonts that don\u2019t sell at all. I think that end-users
    still need to get used to the idea that inexpensive fonts aren\u2019t junk. "
  created: '2009-04-15 16:29:46'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: "It's important to remember that music is something you purchase to listen
    to and enjoy. \r\nFonts are (very generally) a tool you license in order to make
    things for money.  "
  created: '2009-04-15 17:41:42'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>Font designers don\u2019t have touring and merchandise revenue.</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    ones that go on American Idol do! ;-)"
  created: '2009-04-15 18:04:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It's very difficult to churn out fonts on a regular basis, whatever the size
    of the foundry.\r\nThat alone would mitigate against offering subscriptions to
    new products.\r\nI tried producing new fonts on a regular basis when I first started
    being distributed by Veer, but only kept it up for a couple of years, it was too
    demanding.\r\nDistributors would be better able to offer subscriptions, as they
    do have a plentiful supply of product.\r\n\r\n<em>in all honesty, is there really
    that much difference between a music artist investing lots of $$$ into making
    an album and having it sell for $15, which will take them a long time to recoup
    cost without a big following, and a type designer? </em>\r\n\r\nWhat James P and
    Jackson said.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nI don't think most font purchasers are interested
    in fonts they don't have an immediate use for.\r\nYou can challenge me on this
    Sye, but would you really buy those expensive fonts you're drooling over, if they
    were half the price--and you didn't have a project to use them on?\r\nIMO, people
    will license a font they've noticed a while ago and kept in the back of their
    mind, when they need it.\r\nJames M's plan works with that reality.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    I suspect things might be different for really popular typefaces, but I haven't
    produced one of those for a while, and that's not the kind of thing that can be
    predicted.\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-15 18:16:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "James Montalbano had a thread about this a while back as well.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-04-15 18:46:12'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I think there are many currents to this discussion.\r\n\r\nMost designers
    cannot afford to invest in large libraries from many different suppliers.\r\n\r\nDesigners
    are going to use fonts which they already have, so getting a library of fonts
    in the hands of a designer is going to encourage them to use those fonts.  Subscriptions
    or other licensing arrangements (like the one I described) are going to help get
    fonts to the designers making decisions.\r\n\r\nBut I think it goes farther. Are
    type designers making the fonts that graphic designers want to use? Yes and no
    I think. I shared some thoughts on this in a previous thread on the TDC winners.
    I do think there is generally a disconnect between type designers and graphic
    designers. I have been trying to bridge that by getting my graphic designer buddies
    involved with the type design process. Encouraging them to act as a sort of art
    director during some of our development process.\r\n\r\nJust a few thoughts.\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2009-04-15 19:20:50'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: "<cite>Designers are going to use fonts which they already have, so getting
    a library of fonts in the hands of a designer is going to encourage them to use
    those fonts.</cite>\r\n\r\nGreat point. Is there a way we can combine this with
    the freemium thread now? \r\n"
  created: '2009-04-15 19:48:58'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: There is no Free.
  created: '2009-04-15 19:54:45'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "@nick - for me personally, yes i do and would buy fonts i have no need for.
    in fact i would estimate that at least half of my type purchases were because
    i just liked them, and hope to find a place to use them in the future. some were
    bought just because they were on special. i have managed to convince my work to
    buy some of the larger families that i personally could not afford, thus at work
    i have the Neutra and Meta families. \r\n\r\nbut i do see your point, and i know
    i am in the minority. most designers just use what they know or already have.
    which i guess is where i see alternative forms of licensing helping. \r\n\r\n@james
    m - i totally agree in there being a gap between what graphic designers want and
    what type designers create. one family i would love to get, as a graphic designer,
    is Gotham, i know it's the new helvetica and everyone is using it, but it just
    seems to practical and looks good almost everywhere. as a type nerd i want and
    buy other faces, not really to use, but just to have. i remember when i use to
    work for a print shop that had the LinoType Gold discs, we never even looked at
    buying type, there just wasn't a budget for it, so we just used what we had (or
    freebies).\r\n\r\n@james p - i see you're point, and you're right to a degree,
    except that there are thousands of people making music who do not have big label
    support and all the other stuff. i guess the main point i was trying to make was
    that these artists invest heavily in making something that gets sold cheap. i
    have a buddy who make an independent album, it took him months, plus lots of money
    to make (recording, mastering etc) yet he has sold hardly any cd's (or digital
    downloads) at all. "
  created: '2009-04-16 01:34:53'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "ok, so i just spoke to my music buddy, and naturally, you guys are right,
    if a company wants to use a song (or part of one) in a project (tv show, movie,
    ad etc) then they have to license it based on how it's getting used. so it's pretty
    much the same as fonts.\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-16 01:41:17'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "There's no question that reducing the cost of fonts would sell more. But
    whether it will sell *enough* more is the question. If I halve the retail price
    of my fonts, I have to double my license sales, just to stay even. If my price-per-single
    font drops to $1 from $30, then I need to sell 30x as many font licenses.\r\n\r\nThat's
    ignoring any per-font overhead such as tech support costs, which are likely to
    go up ~linearly with the number of fonts licensed.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-04-16 01:42:12'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "@thomas - yeah i know that is the trick. and as has been mentioned, no one
    can pick a winner until it starts winning! \r\n\r\ni think i need to clarify,
    i think fonts are worth the prices charged. the simple fact is that lots of ones
    that i want i just cannot afford.\r\n\r\nbut i guess that's like cars. or anything
    else.\r\n\r\ni do wish all foundries had a variety of ways to license their fonts,
    for example, H&FJ do not license single weights unless there is a large quantity
    ordered. for a small fry like me, that stops me being able to buy their fonts."
  created: '2009-04-16 01:56:02'
- author:
    name: billdavis
    picture: 109965
  body: "Good topic. If you look around you can find a variety of new licensing models
    being explored. All with the goal of meeting the needs of customers, and allowing
    type designers & font vendors to earn a livelihood.\r\n\r\nFor example, the traditional
    font license that includes 5 workstations by default. Some foundries, including
    FontBureau, offer a single workstation license, which lowers the entry fee. We've
    done this with our [[http://www.Fontmarketplace.com|Fontmarketplace.com]] site
    (we offer TrueType fonts with single workstation licenses). Of course the hope
    is that honest users will be honest and select the number of workstations they
    intend to install the fonts on from the drop-down menu.\r\n\r\nAnother example
    is the 'personal use' vs. 'commercial use' licenses. Some type designers and foundries
    are offering a discount for a license that is only for personal use (to appeal
    to home & office users much like FontMarketplace).\r\n\r\nBack in 2003 when Steve
    Kuhlman and I worked at Agfa Monotype we applied for a patent for a \"Font Rental
    System\". [[http://www.wikipatents.com/apps/20040177056.html|Wikipatents.com -
    Application 20040177056.]] We both left in 2004 so I don't know what happened
    to it (other than it does not appear to have been issued). From what I remember
    DRM was an integral component of the system. As Thomas and others have mentioned,
    in today's market that would meet a lot of resistance.\r\n\r\nI think the main
    objective with any licensing system is to make it a win-win for all the parties.
    For the customer they must see the value, and it must be easy to understand and
    administer. For the type designer and font vendors it must protect the font software
    and IP. \r\n\r\nSome of the comments and ideas posted above are great in that
    we all must continue to think about how to best serve our customers. If we are
    not meeting their needs (by not having the right fonts, or making it easy and
    cost-effective to acquire), then we'll have to continue to evolve and innovate,
    or face even tougher challenges ahead. So from that standpoint I would agree that
    the font & music business have many similarities. "
  created: '2009-04-17 05:02:27'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "I hate to get sucked into this topic because it's so polarizing but I think
    there are really only two concepts that could work . . .\r\n\r\n1) A font management
    app with DRM . . .\r\n\r\n2) An online or remote design application that allowed
    access to fonts based on the user account which could be 'subscribed to' as well
    as assets to design with . . .\r\n\r\nNeither of these is a stretch when you look
    at how technology is evolving the design market . . . But, neither is likely to
    be funded unless a profit is sniffed out . . .\r\n\r\nStuart :D"
  created: '2009-04-17 05:14:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Re. Stuart's #2: Bill, I note that you guys have actually bypassed the design
    application, providing layout templates bundled with fonts (or is it the other
    way around? :-) in your Eco package.\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-17 07:44:14'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "someone might know this better than me, but with music that is played for
    commercial purposes, like radio, don't the stations submit a list to an independant
    body (APRA in oz, ASCAP is usa i think) and pay a fee for each use fo the songs,
    which is then pased on to the people who own the songs? \r\n\r\ni know most designers
    would not think of fonts as being 'rented' but lets say i purchase a license for
    a really small token fee (like $15 for a cd of music) in order to see if the fonts
    will work for a project, then if i did use it, i submit the usage to the independant
    body who bill me and pass on the royalties to the relevant foundry/distributer/designer?\r\n\r\nplus
    this body would also be responsibel for tracking down illegal use of fonts for
    commercial purposes. i;m assuming it would be funded by the foundrys'distributers/designers
    who wish to use the service.\r\n\r\ndoes anyone know if i'm correct about that?"
  created: '2009-04-17 16:25:15'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: In Simon's case, a non-profit license might make sense.
  created: '2009-04-17 17:18:47'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> then if i did use it, i submit the usage to the independant body who bill
    me and pass on the royalties to the relevant foundry/distributer/designer?\r\n\r\nRight.
    But how do we know you will submit the usage? How many will ignore the usage?
    I don't know about Oz, but in the USA there is a freedom of the press that pretty
    much prevents the government from licensing media or forcing people to submit
    publications to any governing body.\r\n\r\nAn interesting idea, but probably not
    workable."
  created: '2009-04-17 17:19:11'
- author:
    name: billdavis
    picture: 109965
  body: '@ Nick - Yes, the Eco Font Pack contains fonts & templates for Microsoft
    Word & PowerPoint. The font packs are targeted at home & office computer users
    and the goal of the templates is to give users who are not creative professionals
    a file that can serve as an idea starter.'
  created: '2009-04-17 18:19:43'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: "<cite>i know most designers would not think of fonts as being \u2019rented\u2019
    but lets say i purchase a license for a really small token fee (like $15 for a
    cd of music) in order to see if the fonts will work for a project, then if i did
    use it, i submit the usage to the independant body who bill me and pass on the
    royalties to the relevant foundry/distributer/designer?</cite>\r\n\r\nAt what
    point do you decide if you've \"used\" a font? Is it when you download it? When
    you activate it? When you set text in it? When you show an art director? When
    you show the client in a presentation? When a project is approved and printed
    or published? When the client pays you for it?"
  created: '2009-04-17 18:25:54'
- author:
    name: Frank ADEBIAYE
    picture: 112491
  body: "I th--ink you should read, test and spread it worldwidly (or wordwidly if
    you prefer)\r\n\r\nhttp://velvetyne.typepad.com/velvetyne/2009/05/type-is-talkative-at-last.html\r\n\r\nhttp://velvetyne.typepad.com/velvetyne/2009/05/vertumne-funding-type-design-and-type-development-at-last.html\r\n\r\ndo
    not hesitate, it's free..."
  created: '2009-05-13 07:21:13'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Yes, when the client pays for it. \r\n\r\nAnd then the designer pays the
    type designer for it. It is very simple!"
  created: '2009-05-14 05:15:58'
- author:
    name: Frank ADEBIAYE
    picture: 112491
  body: "I have better, read this : \r\nhttp://velvetyne.typepad.com/velvetyne/2009/05/hard-type-talk-now-i-mean-business.html"
  created: '2009-05-14 07:29:14'
date: '2009-04-14 06:42:45'
node_type: forum
title: Licensing type by subscription

---
