---
author:
  name: nhallam
body: "I am currently writing a paper that is discussing Massimo Vignelli's quote:
  \r\n\r\n\"We think typography is black and white. Typography is really white, its
  not even black. Its the space between the blacks that really makes it.\"\r\n\r\nI'm
  looking or any previous writings or information about the topic that I could reference
  in my paper. \r\n\r\nI would have thought that someone would have written about
  the topic, but I have yet to find any serious writings. \r\n\r\nIf you know of anything,
  please post it up!\r\n\r\nN\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "What have you read so far? I\u2019m confused as to how you aren\u2019t finding
    anything, because the concepts of counterforms and spacing coms up in just about
    every typography textbook, most calligraphy manuals, most significant books on
    type design, and in interviews with type designers."
  created: '2009-04-15 02:54:42'
- author:
    name: nhallam
  body: "J, \r\n\r\nSorry, i should have been clearer. I have of course read a lot
    in type text books etc. but i am looking for research that explores the importance
    of good letter spacing vs. non. I am putting forward the idea that the figure
    ground relationship between the positive and negative ground in type design and
    in book/poster design, is a vital aspect to the stressfulness and clarity of the
    intended communication. \r\n\r\nAs you know a lot has been written about \"how
    to\" correctly do this, but im trying to determine \"why\" it is necessary. \r\n\r\nWhy
    is it, for example, that Helvetica is often judged as a more aesthetically appealing
    typeface than Arial, even when looked at by people who know nothing about type.
    Being so similar i believe that there must be a sub-conscious psychological reason
    for this. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-15 03:43:00'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "I think that the figure/ground relationship of type is one thing, and the
    quality of Helvetica vs. Arial is another. The former does not necessarily affect
    the latter. See <a href=\"http://www.ms-studio.com/articles.html\">\"The Scourge
    of Arial\"</a> for more info on Helvetica vs. Arial, and the reasons (not necessarily
    aesthetic or related to negative space).\r\n\r\nFor general discussions of the
    white space between black type, see:\r\n\r\n<em>Counterpunch</em>, by <a href=\"http://www.hyphenpress.co.uk/authors/fred_smeijers\">Fred
    Smeijers</a>\r\n\r\n<em>Letters of Credit</em>, by <a href=\"http://www.godine.com/isbn.asp?isbn=1567922406\">Walter
    Tracy</a>\r\n\r\n...and also these online resources:\r\n\r\nhttp://briem.ismennt.is/\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typeworkshop.com/index.php?id1=type-basics\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-15 07:43:34'
- author:
    name: Manlio Napoli
    picture: 111362
  body: See also <a href="http://hyphenpress.co.uk/books/978-0-907259-34-3">Detail
    In Typography</a> by Jost Hochuli.
  created: '2009-04-15 10:13:54'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "It sounds like you are suggesting that the \"white*\" space has a similar
    role in (illustration?), poster design text, and micro typography. I think this
    is mistaken. The thing about the white space is that as far as I can see there
    are many phenomena occurring at once: you have overshoots which is a kind of optical
    illusion , and the other similar illusions which I won't enumerate here, scale
    specific illusions**, and then interactions the specific qualities of the design
    such as regularity ( or not) of forms, Horizontality, and so on. It is a rich
    mix.\r\n\r\nAnd you might also want to look at the phenomena of \"crowding\".
    Do a search for Pelli and crowding. The article \"The uncrowded window of object
    recognition\" by Denis G Pelli & Katharine A Tillman in Nature Nueroscience might
    be the best place to begin.\r\n\r\nBut back to the why, I think that the reason
    you don't find much about why is that it is on some level a scientific / optical
    / neurological question about perception. As designers we try to become sensitive
    to what is happening & what works and thereby develop an intuitive sense of what's
    happening. We can observe, name and compare common typographic phenomena - this
    is probably the case with Tim's book for instance, and is the case when we look
    at a different phenomena like overshoots. However without insulting that ability
    which helps us a great deal (quite the reverse in fact!), I think it is safe to
    say that this kind of activity isn't so much explaining why but what. To get at
    why you would need to do scientific experiments. And again, this is not to say
    that you can't get a great deal done by analyzing what. And indeed you can start
    to develop some theories about why from this and even test them in a soft sense
    in your own designs. \r\n\r\nIn terms of Helvetica and Arial, I think that given
    enough time and attention you will eventually see why one is better drawn than
    the other in general. But you will also discover that there is not \"one\" Helvetica,
    and by this I don't mean Neu Helvetica or different weights, I mean that there
    are actually different versions. You will also discover that Arial is good at
    things that Helvetica isn't - some specific screen applications, and in specific
    rendering environments. As far as it's relevance to your stated topic I have to
    agree with Ricardo.\r\n\r\n*since it may simply be a the contrasting color\r\n\r\n**
    If you look at what works best for type design at various sizes ( and you might
    want to get Tim Ahrens' new book  http://typophile.com/node/56793 ) you will find
    that the designs for various sizes differ. For instance the counters for letters
    that will be very small need to get larger and the spaces between letters do too.
    And the features need to be more beefy/crude/large/obvious. Also, experimenting
    a little you can find that a badly drawn font which is well spaced will outperform
    a one which is better but which has spacing which is worse. To me this fact alone
    explains the Massimo Vignelli quote. Ironically it is the size specific quality
    of the spacing ( look at how close the i & l are set ) that makes Helvetica nice
    when it is set large and not so nice set small. It is that lack of robustness
    in the design of its spacing, among other things; that makes Helvetica a very
    poor choice for signage systems for instance. "
  created: '2009-04-15 15:02:30'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Try reading the section about spacing in Gerrit Noordzij\u2019s <em>The Stroke</em>.
    I\u2019m pretty sure Cyrus Highsmith talks about it a little in <a href=\"http://www.eyemagazine.com/feature.php?id=130&fid=569\">this
    interview</a>. IIRC Mike Parker discusses it some more in the extra features of
    the Helvetica DVD, if this is a big paper it might be worth trying to interview
    him for his thoughts on the topic."
  created: '2009-04-15 16:33:01'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@ nhallam:\r\n\r\nSorkin made some good points. In order to answer the \"why\"
    you will need to conduct controlled experiments with a directed research question,
    a clearly articulated hypothesis and independent and dependent variables. To conduct
    research at this level, you will probably need about two years of undergraduate
    psychology specifically focused on cognition. Psych 2000 (or the equivalent of
    the primary 2nd year psychology course at your institution), a few labs, and an
    intro stats course should be a good start. And your supervisor will more than
    likely need to be research scientist, not a designer.\r\n\r\nSorkin mentioned:\r\n\r\nPelli,
    D.G., Tillman, K. A. (2008) The uncrowded window of object recognition. <em>Nature
    Neuroscience</em>. 11(10) 1129\u20131136\r\n\r\nThis is a well respected journal
    with a high impact factor. Check out the references. There is a lot of good stuff
    there, but it's pretty narrow-cast science. Pelli and Tillman (2008) is a review
    article and is a little more digestible. You may find the reference somewhat obscure,
    and you'll probably need to get someone who knows stats to help you interpret
    the results. I usually do as I still haven't got as much math under my belt as
    I would like. I believe I had to go through the database and journals at my school
    to get this, which usually requires paid access. My school pays about $3,000,000
    a year to have access to all of this knowledge (pier-reviewed journals &c) so
    you may need to call in a favour. However, I often have great success simply contacting
    the author directly and asking if they wouldn't mind sharing their research with
    you.\r\n\r\nLarson also has a nice piece of work online:\r\n\r\n[[http://www.microsoft.com/typography/ctfonts/wordrecognition.aspx|The
    science of word recognition]].\r\n\r\nOne of the earlier players in this game:\r\n\r\nBouma,
    H. (1973). Visual Interference in the Parafoveal Recognition of Initial and Final
    Letters of Words, <em>Vision Research</em>, 13, 762-782.\r\n\r\nA lot of research
    in this area is still in dispute however. It's fairly hot at the moment. To date,
    the answers to our \"why\" questions are primarily supported by convention, aesthetics
    and intuition, and not objective measures of human performance and empirical data.
    There are two pretty strong camps on this area so be mindful of both. Often, threads
    of this nature end up in a \"art vs science\" debate. Myself, I favour science."
  created: '2009-04-15 18:19:55'
- author:
    name: nepenthe
    picture: 109675
  body: 'G Noordzij''s [[http://www.amazon.com/Letterletter-Gerrit-Noordzij/dp/088179175X|LetterLetter]]
    contains some articles about pos-neg space relations, for example "The dimensions
    of the mental image and its origins" and "The puzzle". '
  created: '2009-04-15 19:27:34'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "To my mind, in reading, the entire word is figure. The ground is the surrounding
    space the word stands out against. One of the great oversights of perceptual psychology,
    it seems to me, is the failure to understand that within the word as bounded map,
    both the black and the white are information contributing to visual word-form
    resolution. Psychology sees the black but has nothing to say about the white.\r\n\r\nUnderlying
    this is the principle that the rods and cones in the retina are responsive to
    reflected light."
  created: '2009-05-01 22:57:05'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fovea|Fovial]] and [[http://www.merriam-webster.com/medical/parafovea|parafovial]]
    physiology may also be worthy of investigation. I''ll see if I can dig up a study
    on Monday.'
  created: '2009-05-03 03:44:14'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Why would anyone take anything Massimo Vignelli says seriously! Have you ever
    looked at his line of men's clothes? The clothes  that he claimed would revolutionize
    the way men dressed for business. As far as anyone can tell Massimo is the only
    one to ever wear those clothes!
  created: '2009-05-03 03:58:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Whenever people start talking about \u2018designing the white\u2019 or about
    how the white is more important than the black, my bogosity meter starts to twitch.
    It sounds really cool to say one \u2018designs the white not the black\u2019,
    but what does it mean? What is the process? How does this process differ from
    designing the black?\r\n\r\nPeter: <em>both the black and the white are information
    contributing to visual word-form resolution</em>\r\n\r\nI'm not convinced of that
    or, at least, not convinced that the kind of information contributed by the white
    is either similar to or as important as that contributed by the black. Letters
    are positive shapes occupying negative space. The white is space more or less
    occupied by a given letter shape. Yes, the letter shape creates internal and inter-letter
    space-shapes, but those shapes a) vary much less than the letter shapes so provide
    relatively little cue value and b) are not independently featural, their size
    and shape is defined by the letter weight and style. Letter shapes of different
    weights and styles may still retain obvious structural and featural similarities,
    but the white spaces within and around them will not.\r\n\r\n<em>Underlying this
    is the principle that the rods and cones in the retina are responsive to reflected
    light.</em>\r\n\r\nAnd yet we do not obtain more information from more bright
    things: we obtain information from contrast which enables us to discern and recognise
    shapes. When I see a raven fly across a bright sky, the shape of the sky around
    the raven isn't where I'm getting the information from to recognise the bird:
    it's the bird that is the shape, and the sky is only providing a field of sufficient
    contrast to see the shape."
  created: '2009-05-03 15:46:10'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "John, I think designing the white means being attuned to the white as shape
    in the process of designing, and it means designing so the whites are all in the
    same key, to use a musical metaphor.\r\n\r\nIn some words, like \u2018look\u2019
    the wide open counters are the most salient feature. This is even true for ultra
    bolds. I can't believe it isn't used. Some recent tests appear to confirm this.
    Considered from the point of view of role-units, counters vary at least as much
    and are as rich in cue-value as stems and curves.\r\n\r\nWhat I'm still wondering
    about is if the white uses the same spatial frequency scale as the black. It could
    be that it uses a coarser scale. And if it does, what does this indicate in process
    terms. Is information at the density or granularity of the salient whites resolved
    first?\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s convenient that the raven is black. If it were an osprey,
    you'd be using the white as information.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-03 19:42:09'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: 'During the 1990s, I went to <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alberto_Breccia">Alberto
    Breccia</a>''s comics workshop for a brief three months, and he had a great exercise
    for beginners: to train you to "see" and appreciate the white space, he would
    have you pick a black and white photo from a collection he had. Then, you would
    have to draw the picture on a colored piece of paper -- red, green, blue, etc.
    -- and fill in both the white and black areas. You would end up with a high-contrast
    drawing, and having to paint in the white areas made you appreciate that the white
    space was indeed part of a dynamic between it and the black. The white was a shape,
    just as much as the black was.'
  created: '2009-05-03 23:53:36'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I think it was Frutiger who first said that he designs the whites, rather
    than the blacks. I think that's a huge exaggeration to make the point that whites
    are important, which is true. \r\n\r\nI think there are a lot of different effects
    at play with whites. One of the important ones is the phenomenon which I learned
    from Kevin Larson is called \"Mach Bands\". \r\n\r\nHere from the Wikipedia article
    of that name is an example: [img:sites/default/files/old-images/240px-Mach_band_6317.svg.png]\r\n\r\nThe
    white Mach Band is the whiter band you see to the left of the black. (There is
    also a blacker one to the right.] It is so obvious that you will be surprised
    that it disappears when you cover the black on the screen with a piece of white
    paper. \r\n\r\nIt is also noted by G. Noordzij, though he mistook the cause. The
    cause, as the article says, lies not in optics, but in the way our brain processes
    contrasts.\r\n\r\nThis is one of the things that Helvetica and Frutiger in different
    ways are designed to take advantage of. The closed shapes of the Helvetica bold
    e I think result in two Mach Bands enhancing each other in the 'gap', causing
    the letter to look bright and scintillating. The smaller eye of the e in bold
    weights also makes the Mach bands more vibrant. Helvetica really does take advantage
    of this. \r\n\r\nFrutiger does it in a different way. If you compare the e's in
    Frutiger and Myriad, you will see that the lower terminal in Frutiger swells lightly,
    producing a sharp angle in the black and a more vibrant Mach Band effect than
    in Myriad, which tapers and is much less vibrant and assertive, even though the
    difference in the outlines is very small.\r\n\r\n[Sorry I don't have the time
    to copy and post the pictures]\r\n\r\nThe way Mach Bands are handled is an important
    feature of whites, but only one. Also it is not necessarily desirable. In a text
    face, you may well want less shimmer, and more quietness. \r\n\r\nThere are a
    lot of other issues, and I think it's important to recognize that there isn't
    just one effect involved.  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-04 03:33:17'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@ enne_son,\r\n\r\n\"Some recent tests appear to confirm this.\"\r\n\r\nCitation(s)?"
  created: '2009-05-04 03:41:05'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I would like to again raise a distinction between between John's model and
    a notanic model in which the forms are not opposed but linked. Perhaps rather
    than linked I should say inseparable. Take the example of the bowl. A bowl is
    one because of the empty space made inside it. It would be silly say the most
    important part of a bowl is the empty part of the bowl or the body of the bowl.
    If they are a bowl they are not opposed. The opposite is true. I do want to say
    that despite my preference for thing about B&W in terms of notan that I don't
    think that this means that black & white have to be the same, equal, or  equivalent.
    Far from it. In fact I would be surprised if that was so. Inseparability does
    not preclude difference. But at the same time as far as I know we don't have substantial
    research based reasons to characterize either one's role. If I am mistaken I would
    love to be corrected. Obviously type is not bowls or physical in the same way
    and type isn't one shape. But despite all these differences it seems to me that
    the reality that opposition is nonsense carries through. I realize that this analogy
    may sound like Taoist propaganda to some and that is okay. I accept that. \r\n\r\nBut
    rather than dwell on white vs black, or notan or not notan, I would suggest that
    the interesting way of looking at this is to think in terms of features and their
    clarity or ability to be detected. \r\n\r\nThe fact that they are in B&W just
    happens to make things less complicated. When you detect an animal in the forest
    - perhaps a deer, your image may be incomplete because of bushes grass or brush;
    or because of tree trunks or branches, but if you see enough you mentally assemble
    the parts into a whole deer. This might be in full and posisbly very flat color
    which is low contrast or it may be in near silhouette. But in all cases in  we
    are assembling recognized features, if given enough of them, into recognition
    of a 'deer'.\r\n\r\nDeer in silhouette: http://www.flickr.com/photos/harve64/2271532149/\r\n\r\nThe
    process of recognizing letters is a similar process. We are recognizing features
    ( Peter would say salient features ). And it is the job of the black & white (however
    characterized) not just to make the features themselves easy to detect, but also
    to group, or as Pelli would put it to Integrate them into a whole 'a' or 'g'.\r\n\r\nSee:
    Crowding is unlike ordinary masking:  Distinguishing feature integration from
    detection  http://journalofvision.org/4/12/12/ \r\n\r\nSo \"white's\" role, inseparable
    from \"black's\" or not, is to facilitate this process. \r\n\r\nBill thanks for
    the Mach band.\r\n\r\nPeter : In terms of tuning the white not simply as a necessary
    aspect of the black but a a feature, in the way that we look at thins & thicks
    in black strokes, stem widths, and so on -  what aspects are you thinking of?
    I assume you mean things like wordspace, letterspaces and countershapes. Perhaps
    lines spaces get a look in as well. One other kind one occurs to me as well: proximal
    spaces such as with punctuation, but also within glyphs such as between the dot
    in an ! and the stroke above as well as in the openings or spaces of: a e, c 3
    & 5, U & H, f & t,  and so on. Do you have others you would like to bring up?
    Is this what you mean?"
  created: '2009-05-04 13:45:17'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Eben: <em>So \u201Cwhite\u2019s\u201D role, inseparable from \u201Cblack\u2019s\u201D
    or not, is to facilitate this process. </em>\r\n\r\nYes. By providing a contrasting
    ground. :)"
  created: '2009-05-04 17:32:13'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "One of the other issues in dealing with white is figure/ground ambiguity
    or lack of it. In the West, 'notan' seems to most often refer to illustrations
    in which the white is used as foreground, such as snow on a mountain in Chinese
    and Japanese brush painting with ink. \r\n\r\nIn Helvetica Bold or Black, and
    other bold or black type faces, I think the counters tend to pop out partly because
    as the black dominates more, so the eye may want to read the white as 'figure'
    rather than background. I don't know how much the effect in Helvetica Bold is
    due to Mach bands, and how much to figure/ground ambiguity, but I suspect both
    are at work.  \r\n\r\nIn fonts for extended text, it seems that figure/ground
    ambiguity is actually a bad thing. You want the blacks to be more salient, to
    be 'read' and the whites not to read. One of the most interesting things to me
    in the testing of Clearview is that medium weights are more legible at a distance
    than bold ones. In text fonts, I think you have something like 1/3 black 2/3 white
    on average between the base line and x-height. That keeps the white as ground
    and black as figure, and avoids any ambiguity. \r\n\r\nThat's where I'm with John,
    where also my Bullshit Detector--that's what we called it in the midwest when
    I was growing up--starts ringing with phrase \"designing the whites\".\r\n\r\nThe
    whites are critical, but I am doubtful that their actual shape is as salient a
    factor as that of the blacks. For example as well as 'dark-light' (notan) being
    one balance in Chinese theory of ink brush painting, 'thick - thin' is another.
    When you alter the thick-thin balance of the black in a typeface it is very noticeable.
    But you are only altering the white in a counter by a few percent, where you might
    be doubling or tripling the thickness of a thin. And the eye responds to small
    absolute but big relative change of the black in a way that shows to me it's more
    salient, i.e. has more impact.\r\n\r\nThis is not to deny that we 'read' closed
    counters, etc., as Peter argues. That may be. And having the right letter spacing,
    and counters in proportion to the right letter spacing is no doubt important.
    But I am skeptical that the details of the shapes of the whites are as important
    as those of the blacks.   \r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n\r\n  "
  created: '2009-05-04 18:30:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Peter: <em>I think designing the white means being attuned to the white as
    shape in the process of designing, and it means designing so the whites are all
    in the same key, to use a musical metaphor.</em>\r\n\r\nIn my experience, the
    \u2018white as shape\u2019 is a by product of the shape of the letters. As for
    getting the whites in the same key, I think this happens as a result of getting
    the letters in the same key (which increasingly I think of in terms of tuning
    to a consistent spatial frequency channel).\r\n\r\n<em>In some words, like \u2018look\u2019
    the wide open counters are the most salient feature.</em>\r\n\r\nI think that's
    begging the question. Certainly when looking at the word \u2018look\u2019 the
    counters of the double o are the largest features, but does that make them the
    most salient when <em>reading?</em> I'd argue that the most salient features from
    a word recognition perspective are those that distinguish \u2018look\u2019 from
    \u2018lock\u2019, the closest confusable word in our language. It is not the counters
    that are salient, but the rings enclosing the counters.\r\n\r\n<em>Considered
    from the point of view of role-units, counters vary at least as much and are as
    rich in cue-value as stems and curves.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think that is true,
    at least not for the Latin script. The number of counters is far less than the
    number of letters, and almost all those counters are limited to the x-height range.
    Of these, most are of similar size and related shape (making possible the historical
    use of the counterpunch). Indeed, most of them differ from each other only by
    virtue of the difference in the arrangement of their bounding stems and curves.
    Again it is the shape and weight of the letter the wholly determines the size
    and shape of the revealed ground.\r\n\r\nFred Smeijers gives the example of \u2018not\u2019
    and \u2018hot\u2019 -- two words with identical internal white space --, and notes
    that the preponderance of letters with one or more vertical sides greatly reduces
    the variety of inter-letter white shapes.\r\n\r\n<em>What I\u2019m still wondering
    about is if the white uses the same spatial frequency scale as the black.</em>\r\n\r\n?
    As I understand it, spatial frequency is a measure of transition between contrasted
    objects. I'm not sure that it makes sense to question whether \u2018white uses
    the same spatial frequency scale as the black\u2019, because what spatial frequency
    refers to the interaction of the white and the black."
  created: '2009-05-04 22:26:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "re. Mach bands...\r\n\r\nBill, I fail to see the relevance of mach bands
    to type, except in terms of antialiased text on screen. The mach bands phenomenon
    appears to rely on a gradient transition between dark and light. I also note that
    the Wikipedia entry discusses and illustrates this in terms of dark and light,
    <em>not black and white.</em> Finally, the mach bands phenomenon is scale-dependent,
    as can be demonstrated by putting your illustration onscreen and then looking
    at it from different distances. So I don't think it is possible to say that a
    given typeface design exploits this phenomenon, other than in particular rendering
    modes at particular sizes."
  created: '2009-05-04 22:40:53'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "A simple experiment to run regarding counters would be to run a reading comprehension
    test using the counters as an independent variable. Condition 1 would have a normal
    typeface, condition 2 would have the same typeface with the counters filed in.
    You'd have to outline the entire page and manually remove the counters, or customize
    a typeface, which would make materials preparation a bit time consuming. I'm pretty
    confidant that no one has conducted a study of this nature (but I tend to forget
    what I read, unless I've read it three times). A quick database search (PsychINFO
    and Web of Science) didn't turn up anything at a glance. Counterbalancing a 2x2
    within subjects design isn't that hard. Data entry and analysis would be a breeze.\r\n\r\nSs
    1 = A1, B2\r\nSs 2 = A2, B1\r\nSs 3 = B1, A2\r\nSs 4 = B2, A1\r\n\r\nA = counter\r\nB
    = passage\r\n\r\nA simple [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/T_test|t-test]] should
    do for data analysis (keeping in mind I'm not as advanced as I would like to be
    in stats-land. I prefer to spend my time on experimental design. But for fun,
    I have taken to developing three dimensional [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Latin_squares|Latin
    squares]]. I'll get there someday).\r\n\r\n@ Sorkin, thank for the reference to
    [[http://journalofvision.org/4/12/12/|Pelli et al. (2004)]]. I wandered around
    the paper and ended up at a great link to [[http://psych.nyu.edu/pelli/software.html|the
    Sloan font]] (scroll down about three screens and there's a little blue link to
    download. It's free). Strangely enough, the same day I read this, I had a doctors
    appointment. They are moving offices so they were throwing stuff out. I noticed
    an old eye chart in the pile *yoink!* Check out that capital G!\r\n\r\n(I appear
    to be having problem inserting images. It keeps saying \"Could not copy image.
    Error. \" Anyone?)."
  created: '2009-05-04 23:20:50'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>(I appear to be having problem inserting images. It keeps saying \u201CCould
    not copy image. Error. \u201D Anyone?).</em>\r\nIs there a space in the filename?"
  created: '2009-05-04 23:26:47'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Sloan_G_4673.jpg]Yay!'
  created: '2009-05-04 23:30:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Christopher: <em>A simple experiment to run regarding counters would be to
    run a reading comprehension test using the counters as an independent variable.
    Condition 1 would have a normal typeface, condition 2 would have the same typeface
    with the counters filed in.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat's the purpose of such an experiment?
    No one is denying that the existence of counters is important, and removing them
    doesn't affect the debate about the way in which they are important. I maintain
    that they are by products of the shape of the letters: by removing them you are
    changing the shape of the letters. Also, letters include both open and closed
    counters and, arguably, any internal white space constitutes a kind of counter.
    Where would you draw the line on what to remove? Is the space between the arms
    of a k a counter?\r\n\r\nI'm not sure if there is a reliable test for the independent
    significance of counters in reading, because there is no such thing as an independent
    counter. You can't obscure the counter without obscuring the letter shape, and
    we already have good research on obscuring letter shapes (such that we know what
    parts of letters are essential to recognition)."
  created: '2009-05-05 03:11:45'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Christopher, I was referring to a graphic in a draft of a study by Caroline
    Blais of the University of Montreal and Daniel Fiset. It used to be on line, but
    seems to have been pulled, perhaps for reworking and publishing. It was called
    \u201CSkilled Readers Process Words Letter by Letter in Nearly Optimal Sequence.\u201D
    It used the \u2018bubbles\u2019 technique of Gosselin and Schyns to uncover the
    features involved at different moments in image discrimination. A \u2018classification
    image\u2019 for a representative test word javel shows space-time voxels reaching
    statistical significance at the counter of the e, the right arm of the v and the
    interletter shape between the j and a. The results are interpreted using a serial
    reader modeling paradigm, but I thing a role-unit based modeling paradigm should
    be explored as well.\r\n\r\nI think the bubbles / classification image technique
    has great potential for identifying what features or units are being used in perceptual
    processing.\r\n\r\nJohn, we are at a stalemate. My aprior is that the feature-manipulative
    attunement that characterizes type design leads to the deliberate gauging of counters
    according to the integrity of their shape. And this becomes a functional operator
    in the evolution of type. The Noordzijian idea that a letter is two shapes, and
    a word a complex of these leads to the idea that all of this is used. Dean is
    right in suggesting tests for this, but I think it opens up fertile perspectives
    on what perceptual processing in reading entails, that is it opens up interesting
    perspectives on what really happens at a neural transmission level in the visual
    cortex."
  created: '2009-05-05 03:29:50'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Hudson: To make this feasible, I would  operationalize \"counters\" as closed
    counters. To look at open counters <em>and</em> inter-letter counters (is there
    a term for this?) could, depending on the design, create far to many combinations
    to successfully counterbalance. I think we're looking at a trade-off between internal
    and external validity.\r\n\r\n<em>\"and we already have good research on obscuring
    letter shapes\"</em>\r\n\r\nI particularly like Arditi, A., Cho, J. (2007). Letter
    case and text legibility in normal and low vision. Vision Research (47) 10. 2499-2505\r\n\r\nas
    it refutes the Bhouma model. Do you recommend any other readings?"
  created: '2009-05-05 03:40:18'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: And before I'm busted, it's spelled [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bouma|Bouma]].
  created: '2009-05-05 04:11:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Peter: <em>My aprior is that the feature-manipulative attunement that characterizes
    type design leads to the deliberate gauging of counters according to the integrity
    of their shape.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, I think this does happen, but largely as a by
    product of what we're doing with the black structure and features. But just because
    something happens in design doesn't mean that it is significant in reading, and
    it certainly doesn't mean that this kind of design developed because of significance
    in reading. There's a lot of stuff going on in type design, and not all of it
    is significant in its contribution to reading. Readability, as I apparently never
    tire of saying, is a prerequisite, not an achievement. The sheer variety of typefaces
    strongly indicates that much of the distinctive design in any given typeface is
    something built on top of readability, not something contributing directly to
    it.\r\n\r\n<em>The Noordzijian idea that a letter is two shapes, and a word a
    complex of these leads to the idea that all of this is used.</em>\r\n\r\nNo, it
    doesn't lead to that idea. This is what I am saying: the Noordzijan description
    of what is happening in a letter -- which I think is one of the most useful contributions
    to type design, as I explained in my lecture at St Bride's a couple of weeks ago
    -- does not lead anywhere in terms of what we use during reading. Further, I don't
    think the 'two shapes' idea is necessary to the description. I ask, what is the
    sufficient role of the white? -- and it is to provide a contrastive ground for
    the letter shape. Without experimental evidence to the contrary, I'm not inclined
    to assign <em>shape</em> significance to the white."
  created: '2009-05-05 04:30:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Christopher, there's a Pelli paper that Kevin Larson showed me that identifies,
    if I recall correctly, the features of individual letters that are indispensable
    to recognition. I'll direct Kevin's attention to this discussion -- he may have
    some interesting input, in any case -- and hopefully he can provide a citation
    for the paper.
  created: '2009-05-05 04:33:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: John, Noordzij saw this as a general phenomenon, as I remember reading. Also
    the Mach bands is only one illustration of 'lateral inhibition' in which edges
    are enhanced in perception. In Christopher's G above, I see a whiter band just
    outside the black, but I think that's an artifact of perception. And near the
    edge of the black looks blacker than the center. Don't you see these as well?
    Any why wouldn't they be relevant to design, particularly of display type, if
    the eye sees them?
  created: '2009-05-05 05:19:13'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "nhallam,\r\n\r\nI Didn't think to ask. What school, program, course is this
    paper for? Undergraduate? Graduate? Who teaches this class?"
  created: '2009-05-05 06:41:28'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "John, to the best of my knowledge, Pelli nowhere identifies the features
    that are indispensable to recognition. He does conclude in several places that
    items more primitive than letters \u2014 parts at the granularity of strokes \u2014
    are indispensable. He does this in his  2006 paper \u201CFeature Detection and
    Letter Identification,\u201D and in his 2002 paper with Majaj, \u201CThe role
    of spatial frequency channels in letter identification.\u2019\r\n\r\nAll his papers
    are at http://www.psych.nyu.edu/pelli/papers.html\r\n\r\nYou say: \u201C[\u2026]
    just because something happens in design doesn\u2019t mean that it is significant
    in reading, and it certainly doesn\u2019t mean that this kind of design developed
    because of significance in reading.\u201D [\u2026] \u201C[T]he Noordzijan description
    of what is happening in a letter does not lead anywhere in terms of what we use
    during reading.\u201D\r\n\r\nI think your second statement is far too categorical.
    The Noordzijian statement and central attunements emergent in the design process
    can certainly lead to potentially important hypothesis. They did in my case. My
    claim is that your idea that (inside the bounded map created by the blacks, interletter
    and intraletter whites) the role of the white is \u201Cto provide a contrastive
    ground for the letter shape\u201D is a widely held and oestensibly common sense
    assumption that needs to be explored, when it comes to what the visual cortex
    uses. I know of no evidence that has a bearing on this, either for or against.
    Certainly the white provides a contrastive field, but inside the bounded map or
    bouma it also provides criterial information toward rapid automatic visual wordform
    resolution in immersive reading, or so I think. I know I'm just repeating my mantra,
    but it seems to me to provide a powerful ground for understanding the importance
    of the white inside design.\r\n\r\nDid you say you gave a presentation relevant
    to this. Is it available?\r\n\r\nTo get back to the original contaxt for this
    thread, Vignelli's claim that \u201C[t]ypography is really white, its not even
    black. Its the space between the blacks that really makes it.\u201D This sounds
    very much like Noordzij's comment that \u201C[t]he white of the word is my only
    holdfast.\u201D I think this is true of typography as a practice in the sense
    that in defining interletter spacing as well word spacing and line spacing, it
    is getting a handle on the white that makes it."
  created: '2009-05-05 13:08:55'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "eanne_son,\r\n\r\nThank you <em>very</em> much for that great link to [[http://www.psych.nyu.edu/pelli/papers.html|Pelli's
    published papers]]. It's refreshing to see work around typography that is supported
    by more than convention."
  created: '2009-05-05 15:10:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>In Christopher\u2019s G above, I see a whiter band just outside
    the black, but I think that\u2019s an artifact of perception. And near the edge
    of the black looks blacker than the center. Don\u2019t you see these as well?
    Any why wouldn\u2019t they be relevant to design, particularly of display type,
    if the eye sees them?</em>\r\n\r\nThe image Christopher posted is a) antialiased
    and b) huge. As I said: mach bands seem to occur when there is a gradient shift
    between dark and light and, critically in terms of type design, they are size
    dependent. Most text, in print, is too small for this kind of perceptual artefact
    to be present. Which is a good thing considering that the primary affect of such
    artefacts is shimmer.\r\n\r\n[Note also that the closely fitted square around
    Christopher's G probably contributes to some of the perceptual artefacts.]"
  created: '2009-05-05 17:09:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Peter: <em>The Noordzijian statement and central attunements emergent in
    the design process can certainly lead to potentially important hypothesis. They
    did in my case.</em>\r\n\r\nWhen I say that they don't lead anywhere, I mean that
    they don't lead deductively to a particular conclusion. Of course they might prompt
    or inspire hypotheses, but that's you taking the ideas somewhere, not them leading.\r\n\r\n<em>My
    claim is that your idea that (inside the bounded map created by the blacks, interletter
    and intraletter whites) the role of the white is \u201Cto provide a contrastive
    ground for the letter shape\u201D is a widely held and oestensibly common sense
    assumption that needs to be explored, when it comes to what the visual cortex
    uses.</em>\r\n\r\nI entirely agree. I'm being tenaciously Occamist, not budging
    from what seems to me the minimally sufficient role of the white, precisely because
    so much woolly fluff has been said by designers about the importance of the white.
    I'm not sure that my stated view is actually a widely held assumption: it seems
    to me that the widely held assumption, at least as represented in what designers
    say, is that the white is almost mystically important, and indeed what is said
    about it is largely mystification. I'm pushing for something more rigorous.\r\n\r\n<em>Certainly
    the white provides a contrastive field, but inside the bounded map or bouma it
    also provides criterial information toward rapid automatic visual wordform resolution
    in immersive reading, or so I think. I know I\u2019m just repeating my mantra,
    but it seems to me to provide a powerful ground for understanding the importance
    of the white inside design.</em>\r\n\r\nAs a hypothesis, I'm sympathetic to this.
    But I think it is begging the question to justify the hypothesis on the grounds
    that it provides understanding of the importance of the white within design. This
    is what is at question: how important is the white within design?\r\n\r\nI think
    white is critical to rhythm and, hence, to spatial frequency. Which is to say
    that the <em>size</em> of the white areas relative to each other is important,
    and this provides the impetus to modulate the black shapes and their spacing in
    ways that maintain appropriately sized white counters and inter-letter areas.
    All very important. What I am not convinced about is that the <em>shape</em> of
    the white is important; indeed, the shape of the white is necessarily subservient
    to the style of the individual typeface, as expressed in the shapes of the black.
    There are a few examples of true \u2018designing the white\u2019, in which the
    shapes of white areas are the starting point and dictate something of the shape
    of the black and hence the style of the typeface; Legato is the obvious example.
    But the vast majority of type designers throughout history, regardless of what
    they might say about the white, have been in the business of designing black shapes."
  created: '2009-05-05 17:29:17'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Did you say you gave a presentation relevant to this. Is it available?</em>\r\n\r\nI'd
    been told that the lecture would be recorded, but in the event they didn't record
    it. I may give it again at TypeCon, but this is not confirmed yet.\r\n\r\n<em>To
    get back to the original contaxt for this thread, Vignelli\u2019s claim that \u201C[t]ypography
    is really white, its not even black. Its the space between the blacks that really
    makes it.\u201D This sounds very much like Noordzij\u2019s comment that \u201C[t]he
    white of the word is my only holdfast.\u201D I think this is true of typography
    as a practice in the sense that in defining interletter spacing as well word spacing
    and line spacing, it is getting a handle on the white that makes it.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    can agree with all of that, because none of it implies or requires a significance
    for the <em>shape</em> of the white in reading. It is critical to get a handle
    on the amount of white, but the shape of the white, whether inside the letters,
    between the letters, between the lines of text, or anywhere else on a page including
    text is wholly derived from the shape of the letters, the spacing of the letters,
    and the arrangement of the text on the page.\r\n\r\nNow for Noordzij, who insists
    on total control of typography, tuning typefaces for specific uses, it makes more
    sense to talk in terms of black and white working together, because he is treating
    the black as mutable as the white. But for most typographers the black is a given."
  created: '2009-05-05 17:39:24'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[John] \u201CI\u2019m not sure that my stated view is actually a widely held
    assumption\u201D\r\n\r\nI was referring to psychologists of reading here.\r\n\r\n[John]
    \u201C[\u2026] I think it is begging the question to justify the hypothesis on
    the grounds that it provides understanding of the importance of the white within
    design.\u201D\r\n\r\nI was trying to justify entertaining the hypothesis."
  created: '2009-05-05 18:03:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Vignelli was being provocative, showboating.\r\nHis rhetoric, hyperbole.\r\nBut
    of course, positive and negative, black and white, are two sides of the same coin.\r\nWhat
    he meant is that superior designers (such as himself) don't forget the verso."
  created: '2009-05-05 18:19:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John, I take it from your reply that you do see the effect, though for some
    reason you don't admit it. And it doesn't depend on the outer frame in the G above.
    \ \r\n\r\nAs I said this is but one example of the more general effect of 'lateral
    inhibition'. I don't know the literature on this and what conditions are labeled
    'Mach Bands' and what labeled 'lateral inhibition', but illusions of brighter
    and darker patches in black and white designs are quite common, and don't depend
    on the screen or gradations of gray. \r\n\r\nHere is another example of 'shimmer',
    and here, in the Hermann Grid Illusion, only black and white are involved:\r\n\r\n
    \ [img:sites/default/files/old-images/HermannGridIllusion_500_4484.gif]\r\n\r\nFurther,
    it works pretty small. And of course type fits into various grids, so it is relevant
    to type design.\r\n\r\nNow there is debate about what exactly causes these various
    illusions, but the important point is simply that they are at work in type design.
    \r\n\r\nI think it is absurd to deny that such 'pop' or 'shimmer' has played an
    important role in the popularity of Helvetica Bold for display. \r\n\r\nSlight
    scintillation as I said helps get attention in display type, and so is something
    a designer might want to take advantage of. Nick Shinn said he deliberately did
    so in his Eunoia design. \r\n\r\nIn smaller sizes, such effects still happen,
    but more with bolder type, and probably more with sans serifs than with serifs.
    In general, bold type--more black--seems to give rise to these effects more. \r\n\r\nThat
    generally such effects are less evident in text faces is not a reason to dismiss
    the importance of these optical effects. Rather it is evidence that traditional
    text faces in general avoid them, and that it is a good idea to do so. \r\n\r\nThat
    faces used for extended text are generally of medium weight, and not very light
    or bold may be partly because these conditions avoid such disturbing illusions.
    And it may be that serifs help defeat such effects. For example, one of the articles
    shows that non-square shapes in the Hermann Grid can kill the scintillation. \r\n\r\nI
    really think you are making a mistake in dismissing these effects as irrelevant.
    \r\n\r\nThey are by no means the only reason for the importance of attending to
    whites in type design, but they are one reason. \r\n\r\n  \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-05 18:41:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>I take it from your reply that you do see the effect, though for
    some reason you don\u2019t admit it.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, I see the effect. I thought
    I had acknowledged that. But my point was that the G is antialiased, so there
    is a gradient shift between the black and white, and, more importantly, it is
    huge. The further you get away from the image, the smaller it becomes, and the
    less obvious the mach band effect. I don't doubt that if you were able to get
    back far enough, the effect would disappear, as it does when I look at the grey
    image on the Wikipedia mach bands page from more about 15 feet away. This is what
    leads me to conclude that such effects are size-dependent.\r\n\r\n<em>I think
    it is absurd to deny that such \u2019pop\u2019 or \u2019shimmer\u2019 has played
    an important role in the popularity of Helvetica Bold for display. Slight scintillation
    as I said helps get attention in display type, and so is something a designer
    might want to take advantage of.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't deny any of this. But I didn't
    think we were talking about display type. Sure, at display sizes these kinds of
    effects are significant, and are significant at the letter level. I don't think
    they are significant at text sizes, and I think it is a good thing that they are
    not. I also think that the absence of such effects at text sizes is one of the
    factors that has contributed to those sizes being preferred for continuous text.\r\n\r\n<em>They
    are by no means the only reason for the importance of attending to whites in type
    design, but they are one reason.</em>\r\n\r\nOkay, this is good. This is what
    I'm looking for. I think one can take the observation further, though, and say
    that this is a good reason for approaching design of text and display types in
    different ways with regard to the importance of the white."
  created: '2009-05-05 18:51:43'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Peter, I've been through the Pelli papers and have not found the illustration
    that Kevin Larson showed me last time I was at Microsoft, which showed the parts
    of individual letters necessary for recognition. I thought this was Pelli, but
    perhaps it was another researcher. Hopefully Kevin can provide the information.
  created: '2009-05-05 19:50:14'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Peter says \u201CPsychology sees the black but has nothing to say about the
    white\u2026.Underlying this is the principle that the rods and cones in the retina
    are responsive to reflected light.\u201D\r\n\r\nThe rods and cones (photoreceptors)
    respond to both white and black. There is a base firing rate for both. When looking
    at something that is the perfect average of the room luminance (i.e. a medium
    grey), the photoreceptors will fire at a baseline rate. If the photoreceptors
    then switch to looking at something black, they will fire at a rate lower than
    the baseline (thus seeing black). If the photoreceptors switch to looking at something
    white, they will fire at a rate higher than baseline (thus seeing white). White
    and black are both \u201Cseeable\u201D, thus the same photoreceptors and recognition
    processes can be used for black text on a white background and for white text
    on a black background.\r\n\r\nWhite (or background) is necessary for letter recognition
    because without sufficient interior and exterior letterspace, the letter is unrecognizable.
    But I would argue that we recognize the shapes of the letters and not the shapes
    of the spaces because that is an easier comparison task. If we look at a single
    letter, we need to decide if it\u2019s one of 26 possible letters (in English).
    If we\u2019re looking at the spaces, there are 26-squared (or 676) possible spaces.
    It\u2019s more efficient to search among 26 possibilities, and our brains like
    efficiency.\r\n\r\nThis has been a very interesting discussion, and a pleasure
    to read!\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-05 22:08:23'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "John, the article I showed you with the key features important for letter
    recognition wasn\u2019t Pelli. It was an article from the folks that Peter mentioned
    (Fiset and Gosselin are two of them) using the bubbles methodology. In the bubbles
    methodology they take letters filtered in different spatial frequency channels
    then different portions of the letter are further occluded. Recognition can only
    happen if the most important frequencies and letter components remain. Unfortunately
    I don\u2019t have a citation with me.\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-05 22:09:05'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Christopher, on counterbalancing S3 should be A1, B1 and S4 should be A2,
    B2.\r\n\r\nIf you found statistical differences with a t-test analysis, those
    differences would hold true, but it\u2019s not the perfect test because it treats
    your 4 conditions as independent from each other. A 2x2 ANOVA would be a better
    analysis because it lets you compare your two A1 conditions against your two A2
    conditions, and your two B1 conditions against your two B2 conditions. This reduces
    the probability of dismissing real differences as a chance event.\r\n\r\nAs John
    points out, interpreting the results is definitely challenging.\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-05 22:10:09'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Here are some links.\r\ntwo of the bubbles authors:\r\nhttp://www.mapageweb.umontreal.ca/gosselif/cv.html\r\nhttp://viscog.psy.umontreal.ca/~fisetdaniel/cvDan.htm\r\nthree
    of the bubbles papers:\r\nhttp://www.mapageweb.umontreal.ca/gosselif/Fisetetal_CogNeuro.pdf\r\nhttp://www.mapageweb.umontreal.ca/gosselif/FISET_COGNEURO_2008.pdf\r\nhttp://www.mapageweb.umontreal.ca/gosselif/FISET_PSYCHSCIENCE_2008.pdf\r\nsee
    the review of this work and the pelli work here:\r\nhttp://www.mapageweb.umontreal.ca/gosselif/Grainger_et_al.pdf\r\n\r\n[Kevin]
    \u201CIf we look at a single letter, we need to decide if it\u2019s one of 26
    possible letters (in English). If we\u2019re looking at the spaces, there are
    26-squared (or 676) possible spaces.\u201C\r\n\r\nIn the review, feature-based
    <em>letter perception</em> is discussed. First the visual cortex needs to resolve
    stimulus-derived information into the features. I think current guesses place
    the amount to less than half of 26. If the intra-letter whites are used this figure
    can be elevated. (Let\u2019s leave the perceptual processing role of the inter-letter
    white moot for now.) \r\n\r\nThis might suggest the most efficient route to <em>word
    recognition</em> is to resolve identity directly at the feature level. My model
    is an attempt to outline the basics of such a route. The review opts for a hierarchical
    \u2014 instead of direct \u2014 route. Heirarchical processing is less efficient,
    from a neural computation point of view."
  created: '2009-05-05 23:44:14'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: It could also be instructive to calculate redundancy in words at the orthographic
    versus the more primitive feature-unit level, comparing as well redundancy with
    just the blacks, and then redundancy using also the internal whites. Redundancy
    contributes to efficiency as well.
  created: '2009-05-05 23:50:30'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[Kevin] \u201CWhen looking at something that is the perfect average of the
    room luminance (i.e. a medium grey), the photoreceptors will fire at a baseline
    rate. If the photoreceptors then switch to looking at something black, they will
    fire at a rate lower than the baseline (thus seeing black).\u201D\r\n\r\nMight
    the necessity for a baseline firing rate be the reason it is important to be concerned
    about the even \u2018colour\u2019 of the text-block?"
  created: '2009-05-05 23:54:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Massimo's quote indicates a closeness to Swiss modernists, not only in typography,
    but in graphic design. See both Emil Ruder's \"Typographie\" and Armin Hofmann's
    \"Graphic Design Manual\". The Swiss of that time quite often built the black
    by subtraction using white. It was important to make the space \"active\" in the
    letterform design as well as the typography and page layout.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/WilliamTellHfmn_4142.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-06 00:04:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "You can also search threads here refering to \"Bouma\" and find elaborate
    and heated discussions about the subject.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-05-06 00:06:08'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Peter: <em>Might the necessity for a baseline firing rate be the reason it
    is important to be concerned about the even \u2018colour\u2019 of the text-block?</em>\r\n\r\nI
    take even colour to be a text-level indicator of similar spatial frequency across
    diverse letter shapes. This is the argument I made in my lecture at St Bride's
    when, after looking at the various ways in which type designers make diverse shapes
    the \u2018same\u2019, i considered <em>why</em> this might be important. If attuning
    to different spatial frequencies -- changing \u2018channels\u2019 -- takes time,
    then obviously it is not something you want to be doing in the midst of reading
    continuous text; rather, you want the text to maintain a consistent spatial frequency
    within the narrow range that does not require changing channels. This is going
    to result in an even colour on the page, but I don't think that even colour is
    the goal: it is the by product of the true goal which is a consistent spatial
    frequency."
  created: '2009-05-06 00:13:22'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Peter, thanks for the bubbles links. This is the paper Kevin showed me:\r\n\r\n<em>Features
    for Identification of Uppercase and Lowercase Letters</em>\r\nhttp://www.mapageweb.umontreal.ca/gosselif/FISET_PSYCHSCIENCE_2008.pdf"
  created: '2009-05-06 02:09:22'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John, I don't think these effects vanish at text size. And in particular
    the kind of effects shown in the Hermann Grid Illusion are not size dependent,
    according to [[http://web.mit.edu/bcs/schillerlab/research/A-Vision/A15-2.htm|this
    fascinating and recent new exploration of the Grid Illusion.]]\r\n\r\nWhat I find
    most fascinating here, and I haven't yet studied the whole thing, is the way sinusoidal
    lines kill the illusion. \r\n\r\nI think what some call the 'picket fence' effect,
    of scintillation because of figure/ground ambiguity, is very important at text
    sizes. \r\n\r\nThe way sinusoidal waves in the grid kill the illusion suggests
    that maybe this is one function of serifs. The breaking up of parallel straight
    lines may help kill such illusions, which are 'noise' to the reading eye. It also
    suggests an answer to the question of why stressed sans, apart from serifs, seem
    also to enhance readability. Someone had asked about this here on Typophile recently--a
    very good question, and I think this is a clue.  \r\n\r\nBy the way, Peter has
    for some time been bombarding Kevin (and me!) with Pelli's work and with that
    of the \"Bubble People\" as Peter calls them. Mostly it alas has bounced off me,
    as I'm finishing this font...\r\n\r\nOn the issue of why we prefer 8-12 pt type
    for reading, I think this has to do with visual angle the fovea can take in, the
    average length of words, and the distance we hold reading material from our eyes. "
  created: '2009-05-06 02:46:14'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Bill, that all sounds pretty sensible.
  created: '2009-05-06 03:00:08'
date: '2009-04-15 02:16:23'
node_type: forum
title: NEGATIVE SPACE - Letter Spacing.

---
