---
author:
  name: Cristobal Henestrosa
  picture: 110674
body: "A question comes to my mind over and over: in many cases, actually you must
  buy the font and prove it by yourself to be sure if the font is really what you
  need. And it is very frustrating when not. IMHO, text samples in PDF are poor substitutes
  of \u201Cthe real thing\u201D.\r\n\r\nWhat are the type designer/vendor options?
  To offer a demo/free font, with some (important) glyphs missing? Some kind of devolution
  policy?\r\n\r\nAnd what are the user options? To buy a single weight, prove it,
  and only buy the complete family if it works fine? To check if some friend already
  has the font, go to his/her computer and prove it there?\r\n\r\nAny thoughts welcome."
comments:
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Most online foundries and sellers let you set a few lines of text on their
    sites. That usually works for me if I am trying to decide on a headline face.\r\n\r\nBack
    in the old days, you only had a printed catalog to go on, and had to mark up typewritten
    text to send it off to the typesetter. Then you had to wait until the proofs came
    back, and mark up corrections -- or, if the text was too long, have an editor
    mark up enough lines to shorten the text -- and send it back to the typesetter
    for another round...\r\n\r\nMy point is that we designers have it pretty easy
    these days, and we have several ways of testing a face before we hit the \"Buy\"
    button."
  created: '2009-04-16 03:40:10'
- author:
    name: victor ivanov
    picture: 111726
  body: "it always helps to do some research and look at the existing designs that
    utilize the typeface in question. Many foundries have examples of their type in
    use.\r\n\r\nI can foresee many problems should a foundry allow people do download
    either 1 weight or a limited glyph set.   "
  created: '2009-04-16 04:33:02'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'A question comes to my mind over and over: in many cases, actually you must
    buy the <STRONG>pint of beer</STRONG> and prove it by yourself to be sure if the
    <STRONG>beer</STRONG> is really what you need. And it is very frustrating when
    not.'
  created: '2009-04-16 06:51:29'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "sii-\r\n\r\nstick with beer you already know.  you waste less money that
    way.\r\nand that newfangled beer won't get you any more drunk anyway...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-16 07:06:54'
- author:
    name: ncaleffi
    picture: 113555
  body: "\"actually you must buy the pint of beer and prove it by yourself to be sure
    if the beer is really what you need.\"\r\n\r\nYep, but since a good foundry font
    costs much more than a beer Cristobal's question doesn't sound so out of place.
    A couple of foundry who offers font fot trial, in different ways:\r\n\r\nUnderware.
    You can buy for 10 euro the Dolly specimen book, which comes with a cd with the
    font, fully working. Then if you decide to use the font professionally, you have
    to buy the full license.\r\nhttp://www.underware.nl/site2/index.php?id1=dolly&id2=overview\r\n\r\nB&P
    Type Foundry. You can download their fonts for free, but with limited glyphs -
    just to test them in layouts.\r\nhttp://www.bpfoundry.com/fonts/fonts.htm\r\n\r\nThat
    said, there are some independent type designers who are very friendly and can
    help the buyer in deciding if the their font is suitable for him, even setting
    a test-layout, then sending the pdf to him.\r\n\r\nAlso, a way to see the fonts
    in use, though only on screen, is using the search function in Google Books (with
    the font name in the search field or a search phrase like \"set in [typeface name])\"."
  created: '2009-04-16 07:45:09'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I've gotten test licences from Typotheque. It involves signing a form saying
    you understand you may only test the font, and will pay for it when you actually
    end up using it for any public work. \r\n\r\nFWIW, as a not-yet-so-very-experienced
    designer, I appreciate such offers a lot.\r\nWhereas display/headline stuff is
    nicely covered by the type testers of this world, with text fonts I often find
    it very hard (if not impossible) to tell if they'll work, and what kind of color
    and mood they'll bring to my layout. "
  created: '2009-04-16 07:54:06'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > Back in the old days, you only had a printed catalog to go on, </cite>\r\n\r\nIt
    is certainly true that as far as the hoops we had to jump through to get type
    set (what Ricardo summarized), things are much more convenient now for designers.
    \r\n\r\nBut with regards to evaluating a typeface before investing in it, there
    were some resources of the old days that have slipped away, not adequately replaced
    by most current methods. \r\n\r\nWhere text types are concerned, an old printed
    catalog might have page after page of a given typeface set in a variety of sizes
    and leadings and even measures, in adequate paragraphs to truly judge the overall
    color and fit. Some large composing houses produced entire books of text showings
    -- cf. Kingsport, in three volumes. And, most importantly, they were *printed.*
    \r\n\r\nIt seems that in this digital age, there are plenty of opportunities for
    designers to see how typefaces <em>look,</em> but perhaps not quite as many opportunities
    to judge how they <em>perform.</em>"
  created: '2009-04-16 12:55:08'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: Or you can just print out a sample .pdf or request one if none is available.
  created: '2009-04-16 13:48:10'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: When you can convince a hooker to let you try her product before you pay,
    then come back again and tell me why you should be get access to fonts before
    you pay.
  created: '2009-04-16 15:34:08'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "Thank you so much for all your answers. I see I\u2019m not the only guy thinking
    like this. \r\n\r\nI know it\u2019s not an easy question, and I am not asking
    only from the typographer side: I do type design as well (custom fonts, mostly;
    first commercial family by the end of the year).\r\n\r\nSince fonts are being
    compared here to beers and paid-sex, I suppose I am allowed to do more \u201Capples
    to oranges\u201D comparisons:\r\n\r\n\u2014When you want to buy a new car, they
    let you drive it first. Full functionality, limited time.\r\n\u2014Demos in software
    are very common. Full functionality, but limited time. Or limited functionality,
    unlimited time.\r\n\u2014If I go to the bookstore, most of the times I like to
    read some paragraphs or even a few pages of the book I am interested in. I don\u2019t
    see anything bad on this. Full functionality, limited time.\r\n\r\nMy point is:
    a good typeface family is not cheap. As a typographer, I would like to know better
    if I am doing a good decision by choosing this or that. I am not trying to get
    everything by free. On the other hand, as a type designer, I want that people
    who will (hopefully) buy my fonts, is happy and not angry because they bought
    something that don\u2019t fit their needs. But I don\u2019t want give my work
    for free, either. \r\n\r\nThat\u2019s why this question comes to my mind over
    and over. I\u2019m just trying to get the best for everyone. That\u2019s it. And,
    thanks to your answers, I see there are more options out there."
  created: '2009-04-16 17:46:25'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "The problem is that it is hard to test drive a font. Let's make a demo font
    without the e glyph. But what if the e is the character that you need for a logo?
    Makes it difficult. And to have different demo versions would put a lot of hassles
    on the vendors shoulders, and might make it so the wrong sort could build a cracked
    version.\r\n\r\nI'm not a programmer, but I don't know of any way to time-release
    a font, and even if it happened, your customers would screw you up by asking for
    a modification in the sample you sent out five weeks ago (and now the demo has
    died). Unlimited time release demos are self defeating again."
  created: '2009-04-16 18:14:50'
- author:
    name: thranduil
    picture: 116951
  body: How about a text composer (limited words, or characters), but with full functionality,
    i.e. the user gets to pick the size, leading, paper size (letter, legal, A4),
    etc, and is able to export it to a xxx dpi bitmap PDF (pretty much like the Collis
    specimen) which he or she can print.
  created: '2009-04-16 18:42:17'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Josef, Typotheque offers such a PDF tester:\r\nhttp://www.typotheque.com/PDF_font_tester\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-16 19:30:25'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: If I'm not mistaken, some licenses do not allow use of the font in a PDF.
  created: '2009-04-16 19:36:00'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "james said:\r\n>   When you can convince a hooker to let you \r\n>   try
    her product before you pay, then come back again \r\n>   and tell me why you should
    be get access to fonts \r\n>   before you pay.\r\n\r\nfor some reason, i'm reminded
    of the old saying:\r\n>   \"i don't pay her to have sex with me,\r\n>   i pay
    her to leave when we're done...\"\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-16 20:14:09'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Full functionality, limited time.</cite>\r\n\r\nSo how do we make that
    work without some kind of DRM system that builds expiration dates into fonts the
    same way the same way programmers handle demo software? \r\n\r\n<cite>for some
    reason, i\u2019m reminded of the old saying:</cite>\r\n\r\nYeah, but good luck
    even getting started without flashing a few benjamins."
  created: '2009-04-16 20:24:21'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: "<em>A question comes to my mind over and over: in many cases, actually you
    must buy the pint of beer and prove it by yourself to be sure if the beer is really
    what you need. And it is very frustrating when not.</em>\r\n\r\nActually, sii,
    one of the bars I frequent lets you try a small amount of beer before you buy
    anything. It's kind of like how in an ice cream shop they'll give you a taster
    spoon.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure that this is the best model for fonts, though. Most
    retailers have great ways to test out headline faces, since you can use the \"Test
    Drive\" feature on MyFonts, H&FJ, vllg, Veer, FontShop, etc., take a screen shot,
    and place it in your document. But the tools for testing extended text types are
    limited, as Kent was saying. Perhaps foundries could have a tool where you specify
    line length, point size, leading, and a variety of other parameters, and it spits
    out a page of lorem ipsum in PDF format for you to print. It's not a perfect tool,
    but it would certainly help.\r\n\r\nOf course, this is all on the retailers. Retailers
    that want to market their fonts well have been introducing increasingly complex
    and useful tools for sampling fonts before you buy them. I think that it's only
    a matter of a few years before MyFonts or FontShop or someone else releases something
    like this."
  created: '2009-04-16 22:32:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I don't think you ever know if a font is \"good for your project\" till you
    see the finished work in print or online.\r\nEven then, you would probably refine
    your specs next time you use it."
  created: '2009-04-16 23:55:20'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "Thanks again for all your comments. So far, I think the easiest solution
    is the limited-glyph font, since it doesn\u2019t require any web programming,
    or expiration dates, &c.\r\n\r\nAh, so much talking about beers made me think
    it is the right time for one... ;-)"
  created: '2009-04-17 20:07:51'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>the limited-glyph font</em>\r\n\r\n...also known as \"cripple-ware\"
    :-)"
  created: '2009-04-17 22:21:22'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "It i\u2022 very u\u2022eful for vi\u2022uali\u2022ing the font\u2022 in a
    de\u2022ign."
  created: '2009-04-18 00:25:49'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "The glyphs you'd limit would depend on the font.  For a body text you could
    leave out a few letters and simply replace them with a no-width space, or even
    a similar letter.  E.g. kill the w for a v and the m for an n.  Makes it useless
    for a text font but visually testing it it won't change much.  Or caps especially,
    since they are what?  1% of the letters we use, but won't interrupt the flow of
    a sentence for testing.  For a display font, you could even mark up a few glyphs
    with a small slash cut.  Yeah, someone could just edit the splines, but if they're
    going to go to that much work they're also just going to trace an image sample
    or edit splines on a PDF sample.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan
    fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura,
    por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2009-04-18 00:39:25'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Fonts are tools.\r\n\r\nA carpenter can't hammer a nail without buying a
    decent hammer either.\r\n\r\nAs a professional, one has to invest in fonts & other
    tools, and build up a collection over time.\r\n\r\nRemember the ol' days when
    it was printers and type setters who owned type instead of designers? Designers
    used skill & imagination and then they specified the type they wanted the type
    setter to set. And it was up hill to the print shop - both ways!\r\n\r\nSorry
    if that sounds cranky. It's been a long week. :o)\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2009-04-18 01:06:08'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "I actually was thinking in something like the B&P Type Foundry way: \r\n\r\n\u2014Upper
    and lowercase complete (ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZabcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz)\r\n\u2014In
    the letters with diacritics, the letter without the accent.\r\n\u2014Punctuation:
    only period, comma, hyphen, space.\r\n\u2014No figures, no kerning.\r\n\r\nFor
    text fonts, that would be enough to give a good idea of its performance (how much
    pages will my text need to fit?, for example), and, on the other hand, this way
    the font lacks of some important glyphs needed to set real texts (figures, for
    example).\r\n\r\nI know there\u2019s no perfect solution, either: what if you
    need precisely to test the figures? Anyway, I think this would work most of the
    times for the majority of users (and that is a good deal for me). Of course, some
    people would dislike to have this crippled font, but I suppose some people would
    be upset for the DRM solution as well, or the expiration date solution, or the
    PDF-online solution...\r\n\r\nThe main advantage of the limited font would be
    that the user has at least some part of \u201Cthe real thing\u201D installed so
    it is easier to test it."
  created: '2009-04-18 01:17:02'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "@Russell:\r\n\r\n><cite>A carpenter can\u2019t hammer a nail without buying
    a decent hammer either.\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nI agree with you on this point: you
    must buy the best tools you can. And I do. I am just wondering if it is a good
    idea to let the carpenter to test the hammer before he buys (in this case, I assume
    the carpenter goes to the store and watch it, handle it, compare it with other
    hammers and just after that he pays it). He doesn\u2019t want to steal the hammer,
    he wants to buy it.\r\n\r\nAnyway, maybe it is not a good idea. Maybe it is better
    that the carpenter don\u2019t touch the hammer before he pays. Maybe he should
    buy the hammer even if it doesn\u2019t work so he can learn, and the next time
    he won\u2019t buy that kind of hammers again (or he won\u2019t buy in that store
    again, for that matter). Is this really the best for everybody?\r\n\r\n><cite>Remember
    the ol\u2019 days when it was printers and type setters who owned type instead
    of designers?</cite>\r\n\r\nNo, I don\u2019t remember those days. I wasn\u2019t
    there: my first professional job was in 2000. And many typographers, increasing
    every year, are in the very same situation. And maybe because I live on this evil
    internet age, I really appreciate to test things before I buy them (NOT instead,
    at least not in my case). I assume some other people, including some typographers
    who didn\u2019t know the old days, will think like this. They don\u2019t care
    how difficult those days were; they care about solving their problems today.\r\n\r\nIf
    I could test the fonts, as I do with some other products, that would be great
    for me as a customer, since I can take more informed decisions, even if it is
    glyph-limited. (If it is a bad idea, it is OK, I was just wondering.) But I am
    a type designer as well, and I want to be someone who help their potential customers
    as much as I can, even if that means that someone will test my product and finally
    don\u2019t buy. (Maybe it is a bad marketing idea, too.)"
  created: '2009-04-18 03:36:43'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>And maybe because I live on this evil internet age, I really appreciate
    to test things before I buy them (NOT instead, at least not in my case). I assume
    some other people, including some typographers who didn\u2019t know the old days,
    will think like this. They don\u2019t care how difficult those days were; they
    care about solving their problems today.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think of this age
    as necessarily evil (or that the internet is evil, either). Like any other technology,
    it has good and bad qualities. And I can relate to what you say: I much prefer
    to go to a bookstore and thumb through a book before I put down some hard-earned
    cash to pay for it. I don't like buying things without looking at them, either.
    I might get stuck with something bad and regret my purchase.\r\n\r\nBut what you
    <em>can</em> do with the internet is educate yourself as much as you can about
    something before buying it. You can read descriptions and reviews of what is available,
    you can even find user forums and see if people are happy with product X -- or
    not. And as far as typefaces are concerned, in addition to setting some text online,
    you can request printed specimens from many foundries, who will be happy to put
    you on their mailing list."
  created: '2009-04-18 05:29:59'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "<em>\u2014Upper and lowercase complete</em>\r\n\r\nSo Anglophonic designers
    can use it for all their work for free, as long as they don't use any French?\r\n\r\n<em>\u2014No
    figures, no kerning.\r\nFor text fonts, that would be enough to give a good idea
    of its performance</em>\r\n\r\nHow would unkerned type give any idea about a font's
    performance? Please ..."
  created: '2009-04-18 06:59:31'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "i agree with nick, most times i only really know the right typeface was used
    after the job has come back from the printers. i then decide how i can use the
    typface better next time, or if another one is needed.\r\n\r\ni purchased the
    stag family last year, and after using it many times in various settings i believe
    i am only just now getting used to it enough to set it just right, so it can take
    time to make the most of a typeface. \r\n\r\nso at some point, you just have to
    dive in and buy the thing, then see if it works. the great thing is that even
    if it doesn't work first time, you then have a working knowledge of it and so
    can find the right place for it next time. my work purchased the neutraface family,
    so as part of me getting used to it, i set an entire book with it. it was a challenge,
    but i now understand that typeface so much more (and it actually worked quite
    well).\r\n\r\ni've noticed that quite a few foundries will set a few pages for
    you in the desired typeface and send you the pdf to print out, which i think is
    a fair compromise."
  created: '2009-04-18 15:19:01'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>i\u2019ve noticed that quite a few foundries will set a few pages for
    you in the desired typeface and send you the pdf to print out, which i think is
    a fair compromise.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's good to know, Simon. Thanks for the tip."
  created: '2009-04-18 15:21:49'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I think you would be surprised at how much a type maker will do to help you
    with your font decision. But you do have to ask, we can't read minds. (Well we
    actually can read minds, but it really cuts into the amount of time we have left
    to make new type.)\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2009-04-18 15:39:10'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "> <em>Most online foundries and sellers let you set a few lines of text on
    their sites.</em>\r\n\r\nIt used to work for me just fine until I had run into
    [[http://typophile.com/node/57114|substantial rasterization differences]] just
    yesterday. Just 2c."
  created: '2009-04-18 17:52:08'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "@Jan (paragraph):\r\n\r\nIn a past comment, you implied that sample font
    won\u2019t be useful if it doesn\u2019t contain some basic letter (\u201CIt i\u2022
    very u\u2022seful\u2026\u201D). If I say that you may include all the upper and
    lowercase, you say anglophonic designers can use it <em>as it is</em> and don\u2019t
    pay for it \u201Cas long as they don\u2019t use any French\u201D (so, if I understand
    you right, you are telling that this limited-glyph font would be enough for anglophonic
    users). But, on the other hand, as it doesn\u2019t have any kerning, you say it
    doesn\u2019t work for testing the font performance (except for anglophonic users,
    right?).\r\n\r\n\u2014About kerning: I think kerning is important in a text font,
    but not essential in order to test it, given it has a good tracking. In addition:
    if you really think kerning is <em>that</em> important, I don\u2019t see why don\u2019t
    include in it, because it will contain only kerning pairs of the letters you put
    in the sample (not enough for real texts). Or it may include only the most important
    kerning values, or whatever.\r\n\r\n\u2014About upper and lowercase: upper and
    lowercase complete is not enough for a text font: even anglophonic users need
    to write sometimes names like Fran\xE7ois Mitterrand or C\xE9sar Ch\xE1vez. And
    they certainly need the figures (not included).\r\n\r\nBut I suppose you are going
    to tell me now that anglophonic users may use it in this crippled condition, \u201Cas
    long as they don\u2019t use any figures\u201D (twenty-four instead of 24), and
    that a font without figures doesn\u2019t give \u201Cany idea about a font\u2019s
    performance\u201D\u2026"
  created: '2009-04-18 18:07:37'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I believe Stefan Hattenbach of MacRhino is also willing to work with designers
    in order to get his fonts into circulation. \r\n\r\nI think a limited character
    (full alphabet upper & lower w/o diacriticals or extended character sets) is a
    very generous way to see how the font will look in use. Honestly, you can't have
    everything, and you don't need the accents in order to see if you like the font
    (plus you CAN see them in a pdf). It's a test drive after all. A lot of softwares
    offer this sort of deal - beta or free trial version and then you pay to unlock
    the complete application. Makes perfect sense to me. I wish this were more readily
    available.\r\n\r\nIt would also be useful in terms of showing the client a sample
    so you can get approval before purchasing the font."
  created: '2009-04-18 19:07:06'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "Another approach by [[http://www.type-together.com/news|Type Together]]:\r\n\t\r\n\u201CBuy
    a single weight now and get reimbursed if you buy the whole bundle later. This
    is a great way to explore a new typeface without full commitment.\u201D\r\n\r\nNot
    exactly about this, but related. To pay for a single weight certainly is more
    affordable, and you can use it with full functionality. The important part is
    that you don\u2019t loose that money <em>if you come back</em> for the whole family
    later.\r\n\r\nGood deal for me, too: if it doesn\u2019t work, I haven\u2019t lost
    a fortune. And I can use it later, anyway."
  created: '2009-04-18 19:34:30'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "used to be, you had to marry someone\r\nto see if you were sexually compatible.\r\n\r\nthe
    kicker was, if it didn't work out,\r\nthen you couldn't marry anyone else,\r\nnot
    before doing the divorce process.\r\n\r\nyou can see why this system didn't last.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-18 19:59:21'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: 'Cristobal, my problem with the limited-glyph font proposal it that there
    are lots of potential uses for a font, where the lack of numerals and accents
    would be no impediment: a logo, banner, headline, ad and other short stuff. On
    the other hand, to evaluate the performance of a font in a text context: magazine,
    newspaper, book, journal, I would still hold that kerning would be essential,
    for both aesthetic evaluation and, say, for the purposes of a cast-off or copy-fitting.
    I would much rather spend some time setting someone''s text in one of my fonts
    to spec as a courtesy example, rather then spending the time artificially crippling
    the fonts.'
  created: '2009-04-19 01:41:04'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "Ok, got it, Jan. Thanks for your comments. It is good to know different opinions
    on this subject.\r\n\r\n@ Bowerbird: in some countries there are no divorces at
    this day. Talking about fonts, at least you can have different \u201Cwifes\u201D
    at the same time if you pay. ;) \r\n\r\n(But talking about marriage, in some places
    you can have more than one wife, if you can afford it. No much difference, after
    all.)"
  created: '2009-04-19 20:00:36'
- author:
    name: Bloodtype
    picture: 114182
  body: "Also, a way to see the fonts in use, though only on screen, is using the
    search function in Google Books (with the font name in the search field or a search
    phrase like \u201Cset in [typeface name])\u201D.\r\n\r\nNcaleffi. I noticed you
    dealt with a rather tricky typographic situation at the end of the above paragraph
    by putting the full stop after the close double quotes. Is this correct practice?
    It's just that I always thought it looked better to put the full stop first.\""
  created: '2009-04-20 01:11:00'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Bloodtype: that's an American v British system, though more and more in the
    US you see the period outside if it's not part of the quotation.  Most other languages
    (at least European) tend to use the more British style by default.  Programmers
    tend to almost universally use the \"logical\" quotes with periods outside.  But
    in Ncaleffi's case, I think he meant to type \"). instead of )\".\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2009-04-20 01:44:52'
- author:
    name: ncaleffi
    picture: 113555
  body: "For Bloodtype: I don't see anything weird in having the full stop after the
    closing guillemets, though I have seen the period inside the quotes, for example,
    when a character speaks in a novel:\r\n\r\nAlice: \"But I don't want to go among
    mad people.\"\r\nThe Cat: \"Oh, you can't help that. We're all mad here. I'm mad.
    You're mad.\"\r\n\r\nNow, going back to the subject of this thread, for sure the
    best way to judge a font is having it printed in high resolution by a professional
    service. But a helpful way for a typesetter to better understand how a font works
    (and not just how it looks), could be having some \"typical\" double page spread
    (a novel, an essay with footnotes and quotation, a poetry book), printable in
    A4. A thing that, in my opinion (and from my limited experience), most of the
    pdfs available in foundries' site don't do. For example, one of the reason I decided
    to buy a license for Whitman was the pdf made by Kent Lew, which somehow resembles
    a typical book-situation. I'm speaking of setting texts in books here.\r\n\r\nNow
    about the limited glyphs matter: I don't think that anybody could use such a font
    for a professional layout (besides logo and titling, maybe) - I have made a pdf
    test with the free BP Romain and even an English text shows problems (no numerals,
    wrong accent). Unfortunately, I can't attach it here. Anyway, if Cristobal decides
    to go with it for his Espinosa and Fondo (which look very nice, by the way), I
    think that they should have kerning enabled; otherwise they're useless."
  created: '2009-04-20 10:09:55'
- author:
    name: thranduil
    picture: 116951
  body: "I agree with Nicola on the printable A4. Being able to print fonts and check
    them out first where they shine best, may it be books, magazines, or newspapers,
    is always a plus. It's just difficult to reproduce the production processes involved,
    like how newspapers are printed.\r\n\r\nI am still up for the high-resolution
    (or variable-resolution) <em>bitmap</em> PDF generator. There is no risk of extracting
    the embedded font files, and the user can see if the font/s look good under conditions
    within his or her control.\r\n\r\nFor other type-tasting options, Type Together's
    is a pleasant deal."
  created: '2009-04-20 13:18:30'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "> if Cristobal decides to go with it for his Espinosa and Fondo (which look
    very nice, by the way),\r\n\r\nThat felt good, Nicola.\r\n\r\nActually, I am doing
    more weights for Fondo at the moment, but those will remain, as the first weights,
    for the exclusive use of the Fondo de Cultura Econ\xF3mica. Yes, I know, I know,
    it is sad\u2026\r\n\r\nBut I really think that the new Espinosa is going to be
    better than Fondo (at least that\u2019s the way I see it). It is completely redrawn.
    Hopefully you can see something about Espinosa in the next few months. And no,
    I don\u2019t know yet if it is going to be in the form of a limited-glyph font.
    :P\r\n\r\n>I think that they should have kerning enabled; otherwise they\u2019re
    useless.\r\n\r\nI\u2019ll think about it in the meanwhile, but it makes sense
    to me. Oh, so many options\u2026"
  created: '2009-04-20 14:31:57'
- author:
    name: shielddesign
    picture: 113786
  body: Some software will let you test it for 30 days. Usually you buy it anyway.
    Perhaps a system like that would work? That way a designer could try out a font,
    but not be able to give it to a printer or copy it in any way and it would just
    stop working after 30 days. I think I would pay more for a font if I knew that
    I liked working with it first.
  created: '2009-04-20 15:36:51'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: "Once again, fonts are compared to physical objects \u2013 that is, to the
    extent it's convenient. This time, the analogy is beer, and it makes as much sense
    as you'd expect.\r\n\r\nOf course, if you try the pint and decide not to pay for
    it, the owner has lost one pint without compensation. The foundry, in contrast,
    can still sell the font.\r\n\r\nOf course, the beer doesn't come with a BS contract
    purporting to limit to what you can do with the beer. You can do anything with
    it unless prohibited by law.\r\n\r\nIf you want to modify (or fortify!) your beer,
    you can. But a font, you can copy free for private study, because the legislation
    says it's ok.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, beer also comes in multiple weights \u2013
    the darker, the better; the light one is usually quite useless."
  created: '2009-04-20 16:45:22'
- author:
    name: thranduil
    picture: 116951
  body: "<em>\"Some software will let you test it for 30 days. Usually you buy it
    anyway. Perhaps a system like that would work? That way a designer could try out
    a font, but not be able to give it to a printer or copy it in any way and it would
    just stop working after 30 days.\"</em>\r\n\r\nWhich means, if not integrating
    the system in the OS, which could be averted by compiling your own Gentoo build,
    among others, that this will result in an expiry date bundled with the font, in
    which a way is to incorporate a software that automatically destroys any expired
    fonts; thus, we're treading the path of font DRM."
  created: '2009-04-20 18:01:39'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "The key I think is in building a relationship with the brewer, cutting out
    the publican and going direct to the source. Get educated in the brewing process,
    be able to discuss the intricacies of the fermentation process with the brew staff.
    Then as you build the relationship you\u2019ll be provided with free samples,
    test brews, and when you need to return a bad batch there will be no hard feelings. "
  created: '2009-04-20 18:33:56'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Where's the hammer come into this, si? :\xAC)\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2009-04-20 18:50:53'
date: '2009-04-16 02:23:45'
node_type: forum
title: To prove if a font is good for your project, you must buy it first

---
