---
author:
  name: clauses
  picture: 112142
body: "Fresh article about Comic Sans the phenomenon \u2013 too crazy to live, too
  rare to kill \u2013 and Vincent Connare the designer."
comments:
- author:
    name: metaspace
    picture: 115729
  body: "Here's the WSJ story link:\r\nhttp://online.wsj.com/article/SB123992364819927171.html\r\n\r\nMoney
    Quote: \r\n<br>\r\n\"<cite>Vincent Connare designed the ubiquitous, bubbly Comic
    Sans typeface, but he sympathizes with the world-wide movement to ban it.</cite>\"\r\n<br>\r\nInteresting.\r\n\r\nComic
    Sans fell victim to its \"popularity\". Probably Vincent Connare would design
    a Comic Sans revival in the future to counteract the Ban Comic Sans movement.
    \r\n\r\nJamesZ"
  created: '2009-04-18 03:05:55'
- author:
    name: celinenguyen
    picture: 117193
  body: "<em>\"If you love it, you don't know much about typography,\" Mr. Connare
    says. But, he adds, \"if you hate it, you really don't know much about typography,
    either, and you should get another hobby.\"</em>\r\n\r\nSo true! I don't like
    it (although I confess I used it exclusively for one month when I was nine) but
    it's perfect for comics. If Comic Sans disappeared I would be very, very sad.\r\n\r\nAnd
    everyone would have to find something new to talk about."
  created: '2009-04-18 03:10:58'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: Ha ha, I comically forgot to link the article. Thanks James.
  created: '2009-04-18 03:16:49'
- author:
    name: metaspace
    picture: 115729
  body: "Welcome, Claus. I think you were just too excited to share the story to leave
    out the link.\r\n<cite>...but it\u2019s perfect for comics</cite>\r\nA typeface
    was born for a reason and specific use. If it goes beyond where it's supposed
    to be applied, it will soon wear out its welcome, vim and vigor and typographic
    value, but it would not vanish. When it comes to a waning or outdated typeface,
    many people are ambivalent about the face with a love-and-hate relationship. \r\n\r\nJamesZ"
  created: '2009-04-18 03:36:15'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Some of the comments are better than the article. '
  created: '2009-04-18 03:49:31'
- author:
    name: Yehan
    picture: 112677
  body: "LOL..for a moment I read the heading in disbelief..imagining the designer
    for WSJ had gone completely mad and used Comic Sans throughout the paper. Then
    I click the link and I get this. What a let down:D hahaha...\r\n\r\nWell..it is
    unusual subject matter for WSJ at any rate. Markets are really that bad huh?"
  created: '2009-04-18 05:04:08'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "i love comic sans.  it's so cute and cuddly...  it makes me smile...\r\nif
    i didn't have verdana, or lucida grande, or geneva, i would use\r\ncomic sans
    as my everyday font, because i love warm and fuzzy.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-18 10:07:47'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "<em>In and around the bower the male places a variety of brightly colored
    objects he has collected. These objects \u2014 usually different among each species
    \u2014 may include hundreds of shells, leaves, flowers, feathers, stones, berries,
    and even discarded plastic items, coins, nails, rifle shells, or pieces of glass.
    The males spend hours arranging this collection.</em>\r\nWikipedia\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    this is an opportune time and place to remind everyone what sort of beast this
    is. It erects edifices on the internet and adorns them with bits and pieces discarded
    by others, usually solicited by trolling. It remains anonymous for obvious reasons,
    and pretends to be genuinely interested in the topics appropriate to the forum.
    Upon close inspection, its questions are leading, and its arguments are superficial.
    It has no interest in typography, fonts, layout, design, or humour."
  created: '2009-04-18 14:25:55'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: 'Yes the comments are quite funny e.g.: <cite>I''ll use Comic Sans when I
    cancel my WSJ subscription.</cite>'
  created: '2009-04-18 15:03:48'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "paragraph said:\r\n>   usually solicited by trolling\r\n\r\nagain, own your
    own behavior, don't blame it on me...\r\n\r\nif you drag ad hominem crap into
    a silly thread like this,\r\nthen that's on _you_ -- jan schmoeger -- it's not
    on me.\r\n\r\n\r\n>    It remains anonymous for obvious reasons\r\n\r\ni'm not
    \"anonymous\".\r\n\r\ni'm known worldwide as _bowerbird_intelligentleman_,\r\na
    restless reckless performance poet from los angeles,\r\nand have been in cyberspace
    with that name since 1996,\r\nmaintaining the same e-mail address for that whole
    time.\r\n(it's bowerbird at aol dot com, if you want to correspond.\r\nand if
    you wanna talk on the phone, e-mail your number,\r\nand i will call you so you
    can learn my phone number too.)\r\n\r\nand i've done research, observation, and
    programming on\r\nelectronic-books since 1986, so if i am \"pretending\" to be\r\n\"genuinely
    interested\" in it, i am doing a damn fine job of it.\r\n\r\noh yeah, and i like
    comic sans because it's cute and cuddly,\r\nwhich is the same reason its critics
    dislike it, so we all agree.       :+)\r\n\r\nso, jan, why do you feel you need
    to be in attack mode?\r\ndid somebody hurt you when you were a child, maybe?\r\n\r\nor
    perhaps while you were growing up there in australia,\r\na real-life bowerbird
    bit you on the butt?  tell us, jan...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-18 20:34:31'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>\u2026but it\u2019s perfect for comics.</cite>\r\n\r\nSpoken like someone
    who doesn\u2019t know the first damned thing about comic fonts and lettering."
  created: '2009-04-18 21:42:55'
- author:
    name: Down10
    picture: 128220
  body: If Connare were to create a richer and more refined "Comic Sans Neue" to replace
    Comic Sans (that would actually look like handwriting), I would heartily endorse
    it.
  created: '2009-04-18 22:45:05'
- author:
    name: celinenguyen
    picture: 117193
  body: "<em>Spoken like someone who doesn\u2019t know the first damned thing about
    comic fonts and lettering.</em>\r\n\r\nI plead guilty. I don't.\r\n\r\nThat said,
    I found this comment interesting:\r\n\r\n<em>Comic Sans should be used extremely
    sparingly, like wasabi.</em>"
  created: '2009-04-19 17:41:24'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "About comic fonts: [[http://www.blambot.com/fonts.shtml|Blambot]]\r\n\r\nOf
    course, there must be many other options."
  created: '2009-04-19 20:19:12'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Comic Sans should be used extremely sparingly, like wasabi.\r\nI'm from
    Wasabi And Nectarine Knowledge Engineering Repository Services. We'll take that
    as in insult!\r\nWasabi took many generations of careful agriculture, spread on
    its own merits, and only gets into peoples faces by their own choice. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-04-19 21:58:32'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Nice job getting around the "filth" scanners David!
  created: '2009-04-19 22:41:53'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: David!
  created: '2009-04-19 22:42:07'
- author:
    name: Bloodtype
    picture: 114182
  body: comic sans is shit.
  created: '2009-04-20 01:44:07'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: "<cite>If Connare were to create a richer and more refined \u201CComic Sans
    Neue\u201D to replace Comic Sans (that would actually look like handwriting),
    I would heartily endorse it.</cite>\r\n\r\nI whole-heartedly endorse this. How
    about Comic Sans Next? CS2100? Comic X? It would be great to have contextual alternates,
    ending/beginning figures, etc., but just making it look a bit more natural and
    not so smooth would be great. "
  created: '2009-04-20 09:34:56'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Tsk, tsk. Comic Sans is not excremental, I think that's a little harsh. On
    the other hand, I've rejected dozens of 'hand wrote\" fonts that were superior
    to CS without a single thought of remorse. I have some experience in this particular
    area, as my comic book lettering was rejected by Marvel (1978), so I know what
    the good stuff looks and acts like, (which CS doesn't):\r\n\r\n>If Connare were
    to create a [...] \u201CComic Sans Neue\u201D [...] (that would actually look
    like handwriting), I would heartily endorse it.\r\n\r\nI say this is impossible,
    not to endorse, but to achieve, unless some other underemployed and thus free-to-act
    MS employee takes it up. Don't ever forget \u2014 CS looks like it should be free
    because essentially it was.  \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-04-20 12:29:48'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\"Owen Fednder\" a made up name? Sounds like an IOU for a broken guitar.
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-20 15:48:42'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\r\n>Don\u2019t ever forget \u2014 CS looks like it should be free because
    essentially it was. \r\n\r\nThis is true, but if any type designers want to take
    a stab at creating new designs using the Comic Sans name they should make a pitch
    to the folks at Ascender Corp. I would imagine these designs would prove popular
    on their www.fontmarketplace.com site - $4.99 is pretty close to free\r\n  "
  created: '2009-04-20 15:55:39'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "Here is a pretty poor attempt at painting a sign in Segovia, Spain. Nice
    try but his sani has gone Pete Tong.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cs_spainsign_5108.jpg]"
  created: '2009-04-20 16:27:28'
- author:
    name: Bloodtype
    picture: 114182
  body: I meant Fender alright, and yes I am related to Leo Fender, and no and can't
    get any free guitars. I'd just like to take this opportunity to apologise to Vince
    (cos I didn't know he'd be visiting this forum!)
  created: '2009-04-20 19:07:35'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Go Vince! \r\n\r\nWhat we really need is a full optical range/weight/width
    family with oldstyle/lining figures and petite and regular small caps. (Interestingly,
    it already has a Eastern European coverage and Greek support, so you have to give
    it props for that...)\r\n\r\nThat would make Comic Sans more useable, if you ask
    Linotype. Comic Sans Next. Designed by Akira Kobayashi and Vince Connarre."
  created: '2009-04-20 19:49:29'
- author:
    name: angechilada
    picture: 117164
  body: 'The only semi-appropriate thing I can think to use Comic Sans is for headline
    text on children''s toy packaging.  I just hate the fact that it is SO OFTEN misused...I''ve
    even seen it on soda machines! '
  created: '2009-04-20 20:55:18'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "I really like the sign Vince.\r\nIs it just me or is the <strong>s</strong>
    inverted in the Arial to the left also?\r\nIMHO that makes the whole thing quite
    attentive."
  created: '2009-04-21 13:10:29'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: 'The sign looks hand painted so he must be S dyslexic. Comic is pooo, not
    that bad word they said earlier. '
  created: '2009-04-21 15:07:34'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "bloodtype said:\r\n>   I\u2019d just like to take this opportunity to apologise
    to Vince \r\n>   (cos I didn\u2019t know he\u2019d be visiting this forum!)\r\n\r\nthen
    you're a chickenshit, with zero integrity.\r\n\r\nit's _not_ \"polite\" to be
    nasty when someone is absent,\r\nbut nice when they are present.  it's just hypocritical...\r\n\r\nnow,
    i didn't know vince would be visiting here either,\r\nor i would have said that
    one of the best things about\r\ncomic sans is the capital-i, which distinguishes
    itself\r\nfrom a lowercase-l, unlike too many sans-serif fonts.\r\n(verdana is
    one other good exception in this regard.)\r\n\r\nanyway, vince, thanks for following
    up on that hunch,\r\nand for spending that \"one week\" of time doing it, and\r\nfor
    being a good sport about reactions to your creation.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-21 17:00:55'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "ban comic sans folk and comic guy on NPR 9am tomorrow on \r\n\r\nhttp://www.bbc.co.uk/worldservice/news/2009/03/000000_world_update.shtml\r\n\r\nor
    on the old wireless on your local (USA) NPR station or East Africa or the Middle
    East. "
  created: '2009-04-21 23:28:19'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: Vince, did you ever hear about Will Holder's attempt to appropriate Comic
    Sans as his handwriting? The myth goes that he spend a year on it, and was somewhat
    successful in his endeavour. He used his capability to letter the cover of the
    magazine 'Tourettes'.
  created: '2009-04-22 08:10:06'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "no but someone once told me I should write like Comic Sans but mine is a
    lot worse.\r\n\r\nMaybe I should make a font from that called 'CanUreadThis'"
  created: '2009-04-22 12:01:51'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: "What the world needs is a Comic Sans \u2013 sans the comedy \u2013 a Comic
    Serif."
  created: '2009-04-22 13:02:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Comic Sans suffers from the same syndrome as many fonts in the bundled distribution
    mode, it is used far too often by its young, addicted consumer, Miss Yues.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-04-22 15:48:54'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "We got moved to tomorrow 23 April 2009 \r\n\r\n\r\nPhiladelphia station WHYY
    will carry the 'BBC World Update' at 5:05 EST or 10:05 BST (9GMT)\r\n\r\nhttp://www.whyy.org/91FM/schedule.html\r\n\r\nwith
    the Comic guy and Ban Comic folks. \r\n\r\nor go to \r\nhttp://www.bbc.co.uk/worldservice/news/2009/03/000000_world_update.shtml\r\n\r\nafter
    the show is over and listen again. "
  created: '2009-04-22 16:00:36'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Clauses, great anecdote about WIll Holder, where did you hear this?\r\nWould
    like to include the example in a lecture I'm preparing."
  created: '2009-04-23 13:20:07'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "The BBC World Update recording will be on the site till 6:00 EST 24 April
    (when it will be replaced by that days recording) \r\n\r\nMove the slider on the
    player to 00:35:10 to skip the news segments to get to the Comic Sans section.
    Love is in the air and Work till you're muscle bound. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-23 14:03:53'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: Hi Andrew. Will was teaching at the Rietveld Academie when I was studying
    there, so that is how I heard. You should as him about the story your self. I'm
    sure he can tell you. His email is will at commonknowledge dot at.
  created: '2009-04-23 15:20:09'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "http://www.bbc.co.uk/worldservice/news/\r\n\r\nhttp://www.bbc.co.uk/worldservice/news/2009/04/090423_comic_sans.shtml\r\n\r\nDave
    and Holly Combs on how they got together to ban comic sans on the BBC World Service.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/090423125052_hollydavid226170_5025.jpg]"
  created: '2009-04-24 10:31:53'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "they don't _look_ like mean people...           ;+)\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-24 10:48:40'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: Just gotta love the image with the BBC logo set in Comic Sans!
  created: '2009-04-24 11:40:49'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Sii> I would imagine these designs would prove popular on their www.fontmarketplace.com
    site - $4.99 is pretty close to free\r\n\r\nYeah, but even successful founders
    like us, who make fonts people actually come in for, can't afford to pay users
    almost 5 bucks to take the fonts like this, no way. Don't ever forget, MS had
    to publish this font, or loose tens of 1,000s of dollars, while we have options.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-04-24 11:50:54'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">can\u2019t afford to pay users almost 5 bucks to take the fonts like this,
    no way.\r\n\r\nI guess that's why foundries are going to be stuck in the dark
    ages, and never make it to \"Web 3.0\". You can take a loss on every sale and
    make it up on volume.  "
  created: '2009-04-24 17:36:53'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/BanHate_5279.JPG]'
  created: '2009-04-24 17:43:38'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: du-pli-cate
  created: '2009-04-24 17:44:10'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Everyone knows that attempts to ban things only serve to increase their sales.
    \r\n\r\nBad luck that Comic Sans is bundled and Vince can't profit from the ban.
    :o)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2009-04-24 19:09:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Maybe he will get Banned Aid? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-04-24 19:12:23'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: haha well someone told me I was on Fox Sports National Headlines on the Steve
    Czaban Show. Does anyone know I went to School with NFL Hall of Fame-r Howie Long?
    And the British Baseball Champions Richmond Flames field is named Connare Field
    after me. I knew I'd get sport coverage someday!
  created: '2009-04-25 15:04:29'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Bad luck that Comic Sans is bundled and Vince can\u2019t profit from the
    ban\r\nLet me turn on the light ; CS bundled, is the only way to make people take
    it. \r\n\r\n>I guess that\u2019s why foundries are going to be stuck in the dark
    ages, and never make it to \u201CWeb 3.0\u201D. \r\nYou'd have to define web 3.0.
    Can you? \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-04-26 12:45:00'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "No, no. Please allow me to enlighten you.\r\n\r\n:o) If it were banned, everyone
    would want a copy regardless of how good or bad people might think it is. \r\n\r\nThat's
    how banning things work. \r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2009-04-26 20:18:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The old \"Movie Banned in Boston\" approach :-)\r\n\r\nI remember in the
    1950s when Peyton Place was banned in Boston and became a box office smash. (It
    would be rated G today)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-04-26 22:25:01'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "I remember the music paper 'Boston Rocks'! nothing is banned in Boston but
    taxes on tea and the New York Wankees.\r\n\r\nThis is from a teacher in California
    sent to me about ban comics sans.\r\n=======\r\nThis is a travesty! I feel the
    need to set the record straight on the importance of Comic Sans, in both the school
    setting and in society, in facilitating a kinder gentler world!\r\n\r\nPeople
    over eat, yet no one is attempting ban food! It's not the food's fault if people
    miss-use it, nor is it Comic Sans fault! Besides, there are >much< bigger fish
    to fry such as mixing multiple font on the same page! Ack!\r\n\r\nIf I removed
    all the words that are in the comic sans font from my classroom, it would be completely
    devoid of words! Thank you for contibuting to a healthy loving and less intense
    environment for my students. ... Read more\r\n\r\nI am a responsible user. When
    I send formal letters I use Tahoma or Arial, but never TNR - it's too depressing!
    And yes\r\nbelieve it or not, my default font on my computer is set to comic sans.
    I've have far too much trauma in my life to deprive myself of a little comic relief!! "
  created: '2009-04-27 09:29:49'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: "That is so borderline. I fear she(?) could go postal any moment. She's hanging
    on by a thread \u2013 in this case Comic Sans!"
  created: '2009-04-27 11:18:11'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "there are many people in the world. \r\n\r\nI love Paris Hilton!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/kylieparis_6073.jpg]\r\n\r\nSo
    there I bet there are some who don't"
  created: '2009-04-27 13:38:27'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Comic Sans in... The Guardian \r\n\r\nhttp://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2009/apr/28/leader-praise-comic-sans-typography
    \r\n\r\nThe Comic Sans \"surge\" is working!"
  created: '2009-04-28 05:42:59'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "However, still some setbacks stateside. \r\nhttp://www.thesmokinggun.com/archive/years/2009/0429091fema1.html"
  created: '2009-04-30 21:56:28'
date: '2009-04-18 01:33:36'
title: Comic Sans in Wall Street Journal

---
