---
author:
  name: arch1k
  picture: 117135
body: "Yes. As simple as that,\r\nDo typophiles have a good handwriting?\r\nAre you
  concerned with the meaning behind your handwriting and try to express something
  using it, or is it simply an uncontrollable aspect of you?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: I don't have good handwriting. It's awful, actually.
  created: '2009-04-20 05:35:27'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: http://typophile.com/node/19878
  created: '2009-04-20 05:44:54'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Oh hells no!\r\nI got into type design because I hate handwriting (not in
    general, just the transitive sense)."
  created: '2009-04-20 06:32:21'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "Not typophile-specific, but very interesting nonetheless:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.themaninblue.com/articles/handwritten_typographers"
  created: '2009-04-20 06:46:11'
- author:
    name: faraqat
    picture: 112914
  body: "Hi! I'm a designer... and I like my handwriting :) \r\nactually, i'd only
    use handwriting if i could... I think if I stop exercising my handwriting I'll
    have some trouble designing :P \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/faraqat_4810.jpg]"
  created: '2009-04-20 14:25:00'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "Nah. \r\nI have a crummy left-handed scrawl. Meaning behind it...? I wouldn't
    subscribe to any deep graphology ideas, if that's what you mean. "
  created: '2009-04-20 15:49:04'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "My handwriting, both cursive and print, are excellant - when I want them
    to be. I just wish I had more time to practice calligraphy and sign lettering.\r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n\r\n[[http://www.thefontry.com|<em>...from
    the Fontry </em>]]"
  created: '2009-04-20 16:12:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Celeste - did you train as a doctor before becoming a designer?\r\n\r\n\r\nNick
    Cooke"
  created: '2009-04-20 16:40:13'
- author:
    name: faraqat
    picture: 112914
  body: "Nick, at least you got my name right! :) \r\nit's easier to write fast if
    you don't take the pen off the paper, so I ended up with these examples... the
    second one is the one i use everyday, the last one is personal, just for me to
    read (notes, personal ideas, etc.) :)"
  created: '2009-04-20 17:02:20'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: I used to have really nice handwriting, until I started using a computer.
    Now my handwriting is awful, as if the muscles in my hands have forgotten how
    to do it.
  created: '2009-04-20 19:39:27'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "Mine is so unbelievably horrid, that upon graduation, my mom used examples
    of it to calm the parents of desperate preschoolers.\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2009-04-20 21:30:48'
- author:
    name: Bloodtype
    picture: 114182
  body: graphology is to graphic design what phrenology is to neurology
  created: '2009-04-21 00:02:46'
- author:
    name: scottsullivan
    picture: 115949
  body: "Sometimes it takes me a while to read my own handwriting..\r\n\r\n- Scott"
  created: '2009-04-21 05:22:01'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Pathetic handwriting, clumsy paws, useless for pencil, pen, brush. Geometry
    is the last refuge of the scoundrel :)
  created: '2009-04-21 06:41:42'
- author:
    name: faraqat
    picture: 112914
  body: I never thought of graphology as something to take notice, never found an
    example i could trust, but i know little about it to criticise. To some point
    i believe handwriting can be a reflex of something, but i think it has more to
    do with pratice, dedication, context (and this is why i posted that image) and
    usefullness. Then it evolves, and becames an extension of your arm... so, it's
    like drawing. This is what I think, it might be naive...
  created: '2009-04-21 09:40:13'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"i think it has more to do with pratice\"\r\n\"Then it evolves, and
    becames an extension of your arm\"</cite>\r\n\u2026or it doesn't, especially nowadays.
    When people don't write by hand every day and all the time, I don't really see
    how some \"signal\" of their personality (assuming there can be such a thing to
    begin with), in their handwriting, wouldn't be drowned out by the noise caused
    by troubled technique, and lack of practice. \r\nLike, I know a bunch of people
    in computer jobs who all have similarly horrid, inconsistent, and illegible handwriting,
    while they're vastly different people/characters. What unites them is, they don't
    usually hand-write."
  created: '2009-04-21 10:07:35'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "...and I guess when they <em>do</em>, it's with a ballpoint, which isn't
    going encourage calligraphic strokes...\r\n_______________________________________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2009-04-21 11:05:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Imagine a drunken rooster with itchy athletes feet trying to walk backwards
    up a muddy slope. His tracks in the mud would look better than my handwriting.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-04-21 13:44:39'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: I would really like to know what the handwriting of Charles Borges de Oliveira
    is like :) I bet it's good. Charles?
  created: '2009-04-21 14:29:13'
- author:
    name: Ess.P9
    picture: 116881
  body: I read the other thread and ChrisL said he was a victum of having to take
    quick notes. This totally rings true for me. I've had times where I've had to
    litraly decipher my own scrawl and re-write it just to make the information useful.
    I realy dont think that it can get better with practice, or maybe it can when
    your still younger, as long as you dont have to rush! Who knows? It's nice to
    know that im not the only one who sufferd!!! nice topic idea btw.
  created: '2009-04-21 16:11:16'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I too am in the no camp.
  created: '2009-04-21 16:20:18'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "In grade two, when we started to learn cursive writing instead of printing,
    mine was so bad that my teachers stopped asking me to try and just go back to
    printing. My dad printed in caps, and of course I wanted to be just like dad,
    so from then on, I printed in capital letters. After a while, (20 years) it got
    to a point that it was so messy that I couldn't read my own notes half of the
    time.\r\n\r\nI had always known about the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bouma|Bouma]]
    model, so I decided to try an experiment.\r\n\r\nSo there I was, 20something years
    old, sitting on my deck in downtown Toronto with a stack of printouts with dashed
    lines on them and I literally practiced drawing a sheet of letter a's, then b's,
    then c''s\u2026 I did this for a little less than a week, and then simply forced
    myself to print in U&lc. It took about six months - one year to become comfortable
    with it, but once I had made the transition I noticed that I could go about 2x
    faster, have letters that were almost 2x messier, but due to the fact that I now
    had word-shapes that weren't there when printing in all caps, I could read it
    2x as easily. It's still pretty bad though.\r\n\r\nEven more interesting, the
    day following a seizure, my handwriting is bad beyond belief. If I'm not sure
    I've had a seizure in my sleep, my handwriting the next day is often a give-away.
    I'm sure there's a PhD thesis in there somewhere."
  created: '2009-04-21 17:41:02'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "I print in caps generally too.\r\nI read somewhere that Joseph Muller Brockmann
    was interested in graphology."
  created: '2009-04-21 18:31:53'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "on a very basic, level I guess there is something to the concept of graphology
    - The perosn with a very tidy cursive who dots their i's with little circles may
    have a different personallity than the person with hand writing that looks like
    it was done in total darkeness while he was blind drunk. Other than that... no.\r\n\r\nMine
    is like one of the above. \r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2009-04-21 18:34:20'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: It is supposed to reveal something about the author's personality rather than
    circumstance.
  created: '2009-04-21 18:38:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "I'm not being sexist here, but i think dotting i's with little circles is
    generally a teenage girly thing to do... or maybe little hearts... aaaah.\r\n\r\n\r\nNick
    Cooke"
  created: '2009-04-21 18:54:55'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Heh. I actually still do the circle-tittle thing in my signature. But that's
    because I ligate a lot, and if I do a normal tittle I'm going to ligate it to
    the following \"n\", and then it looks like I'm called \"nha\", or something.
    Not that anyone could read the top version\u2026\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/circletittle_6247.jpg]"
  created: '2009-04-21 19:03:45'
- author:
    name: GGRG
    picture: 117071
  body: "Interesting topic, one I've always wondered about. \r\n\r\nI pretty much
    learned to type so that others could read my writing. When I do write it is more
    of a shorthand notation. You could not understand the individual words without
    the greater context. I think I learned that from my dad. When I do try to slow
    down and write legibly it usually comes out mixEd cAsE and I tend to run out of
    room on the right side of the sheet.\r\n\r\nAnd as far as content (like my graphic
    design) I usually need to spew it all out on the sheet then cut/paste/move it
    into some sort of logical order. Hard to do when it's hand written.\r\n\r\n...I'm
    glad I'm not the only one :-)"
  created: '2009-04-21 19:14:54'
- author:
    name: GGRG
    picture: 117071
  body: I guess I also "ligate" like Nina. Crossing T's and dotting i's can make a
    mess. And any letters that have similar adjacent strokes I sometimes merge together.
    The word "walk" would have w, a, l, and then I'd use the vertical from the l for
    the k. So if you didn't know the context it would say "wak". There are others,
    but I can't think of them when I try.
  created: '2009-04-21 19:21:03'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hand_5597.png]\r\n\r\nTo me it is like
    enjoyable exercise... and part of maintaining hand skills.\r\n\r\np.s. I never
    did pay attention to the lines : )\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-04-21 19:28:09'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Wow, Michael, do you really write like this every day? Shopping lists and
    all?\r\n\r\nThat \"g\" is amazing."
  created: '2009-04-21 19:31:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Don't even ask me about shopping lists!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-04-21 19:36:28'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Yep!\r\n\r\nSomeone has to make up for Chris's frailties : )\r\n\r\nEdit:
    when I got to the checkout line at the grocery store last week a woman looked
    at my list and complimented my wife on her handwriting. I told her it was mine.
    We got to talking and found out she was an art director. Gave her my card and
    she said she needed a lettering artist for a logo she was working on. Started
    on it yesterday. Cool huh?\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-04-21 19:49:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Michael,\r\nWhen I was at the grocery, a women looked at my list and asked
    where I went to medical school. :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-04-21 20:05:10'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Another no here. I can't always read my fast notes, which can be tricky after
    a briefing.\r\n\r\nAt school I often had a little message from the teacher in
    test papers to write more neatly (with pencil). In the upper secondary school
    I wrote all my notes with a fountain pen with ink cartridges. That was sometimes
    messy but mostly enjoyable, I should really replace the usual ballpoint pen with
    one of those."
  created: '2009-04-21 20:08:31'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "My wife says I write in a Morse code. Not always, but frequent enough to
    miss some items when grocery shopping :-)\r\n\r\n(edit) @dezcom - hahaha, just
    read your last comment .. lol"
  created: '2009-04-21 20:20:09'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Hey Chris\r\n\r\nHave you noticed that the doctors always write their handwriting
    sloppiness off to the harried pace. Last time at the doctors office I told him
    he could not use that as an excuse anymore because I sat in the little room for
    an hour while I heard him joking with the nurses. Told him I hoped that he was
    practicing his handwriting while I was waiting, otherwise I was going to start
    billing him for waiting time.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-04-21 20:38:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Gone are the days when doctors were old guys and I was the young guy flirting
    with the nurses :-(\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-04-21 22:04:11'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I have pretty good handwriting. So do a lot of other designers I know.
  created: '2009-04-21 22:28:35'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Michael, that's beautiful. Your soul is connected to your hand in ways I
    cannot comprehend.\r\n\r\nI wonder whether my clumsiness in writing and drawing
    triggered my fascination with type?"
  created: '2009-04-22 00:31:02'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "I have incredibly 'immature' handwriting in my opinion.\r\n\r\nMichael -
    clearly not the first to say ... but that is some awesome hand writing.\r\n\r\n\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic Designer</a> - Melbourne"
  created: '2009-04-22 01:56:58'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Ratbaggy\r\n\r\nMaybe that is why my wife has kept all the notes I wrote
    her over the years : )\r\n\r\nIt is funny, I treasure the notes I have from my
    father he wrote over the years (dead ten years) and he too took pride in his handwriting.
    I guess the apple does not fall far form the tree.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-04-22 02:27:52'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "After years of graphite covered palms on my left hand, my printing style
    never evolved after 7th grade and my cursive looks something like Chank's Yellabelly
    font which I only use to write out checks, otherwise I did make certain to spend
    many evenings as a kid developing a 'cool' signature since I knew that's what
    I'd be writing most often . . .\r\n\r\n:D"
  created: '2009-04-22 02:54:39'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Paul... it is such an interal part of what I do that sometime I forget that
    what others call lettering I call handwriting with a different sort of pen. This
    is nothing more than handwriting with a \"twist.\"\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Prayer_4793.png]\r\n\r\nSee
    the similarity to my ball point pen writing above?\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-04-22 03:11:10'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "mine was never good, but I have improved it over the year, and now it is
    not really all that bad for things like, uh, lists. \r\n\r\nI make a good show
    of taking notes and meetings, but anything longer than a few lines though and
    it deteriorates to illegibility, and I give up and just doodle :o)\r\n\r\nI blame
    computers. \r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2009-04-22 03:19:00'
- author:
    name: Edward Long
    picture: 117090
  body: I always had quite meticulously written lecture notes in my (Maths) undergrad
    degree, which is probably why I eschewed Word in favour of LaTeX and consequently
    started caring about typography ... These days I hardly write anything by hand
    so it has deteriorated somewhat but I bought a calligraphy book last week. Will
    see where that takes me.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mathnotes_4892.jpg]
  created: '2009-04-22 18:12:11'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "When it comes to my handwriting, my love of type begins to look like a matter
    of pure pragmatism.\r\n\r\nMy handwriting is heavily influenced by my mother's,
    which could be described charitably as \"EKG-like.\" As a result, I tend to write
    in all caps to slow myself down and make the letter forms more distinct. Additionally,
    I'm a lefty, which adds a whole other layer of handwriting impediments."
  created: '2009-04-22 19:36:37'
- author:
    name: idletime
    picture: 117221
  body: "I made a free font of my Dad's handwriting, called Chemist:\r\nhttp://cathydavies.com/fonts.html\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/chemist-specimen_3943.gif]\r\n\r\nAnd,
    as an owner of several expensive coffee table tomes on Eric Gill, I'm certain
    he was a typophile.\r\n\r\nHe made some very unusual lettershapes, consistently.
    For example, lowercase e's wth a distinct crescent shape, like an uncial e.\r\n\r\nHas
    anyone out there admired their parents'/grandparents' handwriting?"
  created: '2009-04-22 23:55:47'
- author:
    name: moare
    picture: 117067
  body: 'Well, that''s depends. Not every designer have drawings skills but they''re
    great designer. Is the same, is a natural development. In elementary schools is
    where teach us to write... sometimes in our lives we could perform our writing
    but some times is other side. '
  created: '2009-04-23 00:15:25'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: 'my handwriting is bad. i have a theory that in general, girls write better
    than guys because as teens girls tend to write letters to each other, whereas
    guys don''t bother so much. '
  created: '2009-04-23 02:20:17'
- author:
    name: daniel_poeira
    picture: 116953
  body: "Everybody always complained about my handwriting.\r\n\r\nUntil I made a TTF
    out of it.\r\n\r\nNow it's my most downloaded font ever and I keep getting e-mails
    asking permission to use it.\r\n\r\nSo I guess my hand-writing is OK, but my hand-kerning
    sucks:)"
  created: '2009-04-23 02:52:41'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "Hey Cathy, I'd just found that font of yours online the other day. \r\n\r\nI
    certainly liked <em>my</em> dad's handwriting too; he was not hugely educated,
    nor particularly interested in \"calligraphy\", but just brought up in a time
    when kids were taught to write \"properly\" more than they have been lately, I
    suppose...\r\n______________________________________________\r\nEver since I chose
    to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2009-04-23 10:45:12'
- author:
    name: faraqat
    picture: 112914
  body: "\"Has anyone out there admired their parents\u2019/grandparents\u2019 handwriting?\"\r\n\r\nCathy,
    my grandfather and my father had very similar handwriting, i find them beautifull,
    yet had totally diferent education levels, and they both also have some drawing
    skills. My mother has one of those rounded, huge, handwritings. Both my parents
    are primaryschool teachers, and their handwritings are not, by far, a reflex of
    what they teach at school :P\r\nI think i was influenced by my father's, i always
    tried to copy it... in the end, with no success, as you can see above, some say
    :P\r\ni'll try to find some examples to show you :) "
  created: '2009-04-23 10:45:42'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: "\"graphology is to graphic design what phrenology is to neurology\"\r\n\r\nI've
    actually been gathering research and books on graphology. Neurology as well, but
    that's another topic.\r\n\r\nI run the risk of being stoned to death for supporting
    quackery, but mind you, handwriting analysis is respected in Europe, less so in
    the United States, and if for nothing provides an interesting and often times
    amusing take on letterforms from outside my profession.\r\n\r\nAntiquated systems
    of interpretation and description have their merits in the over all scheme of
    everything. It wasn't that long ago that designers were seriously trying to find
    the corresponding geometric shapes for the colors red, blue, and yellow."
  created: '2009-04-23 19:15:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Do you have this?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/Manual-Graphology-Eric-Singer/dp/0517616726\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-23 20:32:32'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "@ daniel_poeira : That happens to you too?\r\n\r\nMy scribbly hand printing
    was the basis of nearly the second font I made, which I released for free and
    of those early works is the most popular. Even had requests for embedding licenses,
    and seen it pop up places I wasn't told about.\r\n\r\nWorking on polishing it
    up with an expanded character set for a pay release."
  created: '2009-04-23 20:58:28'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: "Nick, I do have that book, although I cannot say I have read through it.
    \r\n\r\nI have a whole stack of graphology books waiting for a rainy weekend,
    but the one that gives a nice general historical view of the differing schools
    of graphology is the recently published The Definitive Book of Handwriting Analysis:
    The Complete Guide to Interpreting Personalities, Detecting Forgeries, and Revealing
    Brain Activity through the Science of Graphology by Marc Seifer. \r\n\r\nI cringe
    at the words Definitive, Complete, and Science in the title.\r\n\r\nNo, I am not
    a new age freak burning scented candles in my isolation room."
  created: '2009-04-23 21:42:23'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: I have brutal handwriting, and my notes, usually hand-printed, are even worse.
    I will say that I developed some interesting ligatures; ing looks kind of like
    a yogh from a mediaeval manuscript. But yeah.
  created: '2009-04-24 13:34:28'
date: '2009-04-20 05:01:12'
title: Do typophiles have a good handwriting?

---
