---
author:
  name: mike_duggan
  picture: 109519
body: "Real Fonts on the Web: An Interview with The Font Bureau's David Berlow\r\nby
  DAVID BERLOW, JEFFREY ZELDMAN\r\n\r\nhttp://alistapart.com/articles/realfontsontheweb\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: I still fail to see what how a permissions table accomplishes anything in
    regard to protecting web fonts from misuse. What is the point if someone will
    just publish a tool to alter the permissions table at will?
  created: '2009-04-21 18:42:34'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "@James\r\nIt might prevent the widespread use of non-licensed fonts on the
    web for 95% of the people. The other 5% are scumbags anyways, who have probably
    stolen the font to begin with, along with the stolen font-editing software. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-21 18:52:45'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "I love how the \"We have a standard that is now supported in Firefox and
    Safari\u2026\" question was either a) completely mis-interpreted or b) completely
    ignored. \r\n\r\nZeldman was obviously speaking of the \"new\" @font-face, but
    Berlow responded with attacks on the Zen Garden. Shame on you David!"
  created: '2009-04-21 18:54:44'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>It might prevent the widespread use of non-licensed fonts on the web
    for 95% of the people.</cite>\r\n\r\nExactly how does it do that? Is the assumption
    that 95% of people who would want to use fonts without a proper license are too
    lazy/stupid/technically inept to download a tool that alters the permissions as
    needed? It seems to me that if people are willing and able to crack dongled software
    and use registration key generators they\u2019ll have to trouble tweaking a font."
  created: '2009-04-21 18:59:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "James, I think David's concept is that web crawlers or spiders can be used
    to find fonts put on a server, when the site owner hasn't bought a license. They
    could be easily caught if they change just the permissions table, but not the
    name. \r\n\r\nIf they changed both the table and name it would be harder to do
    automatically, but people might report them if it's public, and also there's the
    'what the font' matching software stuff. \r\n\r\nBeing a crook and using the web
    is a very risky undertaking for the crook, as it seems the new \"Dr. Jeckle and
    Mr. Hyde\" in Boston has just found out.\r\n\r\nThe main thing is that if you
    put it on the web, it's very public, and so a big risk if there is serious enforcement.
    Of course, with countries that allow crookedness on the internet, you aren't going
    to be able to get at them. But other places you will.   "
  created: '2009-04-21 19:08:59'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "@James\r\nYou think that 95% of the people designing web sites are all willing
    to crack software? There is a large difference between someone downloading softwares
    and someone who has to go out of their way to intentionally find a way to crack
    open said softwares. I assume.\r\n\r\nThe moral barrier between using something
    that you think is free and something you know darn well isn't free, I think, is
    enough to dissuade a good majority of the people."
  created: '2009-04-21 19:14:09'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Some industries still believe copyright protection can be handled via technology.
    Some industries have gotten over that. I'm guessing it's a natural cycle of every
    industry as it tries to embrace the web.\r\n\r\n\"The moral barrier between using
    something that you think is free and something you know darn well isn\u2019t free,
    I think, is enough to dissuade a good majority of the people.\"\r\n\r\nI agree. "
  created: '2009-04-21 19:22:57'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "William, I don\u2019t believe that enough font vendors are in a position
    to follow up with lawsuits that it will really matter. And even if one has the
    financial resources to file the suits, does one have the time?\r\n\r\nDan, I thought
    you meant it would prevent 95% of piracy, not that 95% of web designers would
    use cracked software. And I\u2019m not sure that the moral barrier is really an
    issue. Designers could have been using EOT without licenses for years\u2014most
    web users have been on IE for a long time. If EULAs have stopped accidental EOT
    use up to now, why assume it will suddenly change with the shift to @font-face?"
  created: '2009-04-21 19:29:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'James, it only takes one successful lawsuit--and probably not even that is
    necessary--for a letter from a lawyer to get somebody''s attention. If they get
    a letter saying "Congratulations you are our customer, here''s the bill", which
    is what I heard DB say at  at TypeCon is his approach, then they are likely to
    pay up rather than risk a law suit. And one of the big boys, like MS, Adobe, Apple,
    may well join in a lawsuit to establish the principle, if there''s an issue affecting
    them at stake, which would be the case here. '
  created: '2009-04-21 21:18:57'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "The open-source ideologue with a cruel-and-nasty streak, Mark Pilgrim, <a
    href=\"http://diveintomark.org/archives/2009/04/21/fuck-the-foundries\" title=\"diveintomark
    posting\">points out</a> that \u201Cyour\u201D fonts are better than \u201C[his]\u201D
    fonts in every way but one.\r\n\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-04-21 21:37:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Heh heh. Joe, the censor-bot is messing up your link, as it contains the
    famous f-word. \r\n\r\nIt is current [[http://firehose.diveintomark.org/|here]].\r\n\r\nI'm
    not clear on whether the permissions table would have to interact with browsers,
    as Mark Pilgrim says. And if so, how big a deal this is.  \r\n\r\nPerhaps David
    Berlow could explain more how his concept is supposed to work.  "
  created: '2009-04-21 22:19:30'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>\u2026it only takes one successful lawsuit\u2014and probably not even
    that is necessary\u2014for a letter from a lawyer to get somebody\u2019s attention.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    experiences of the RIAA, the MPAA, Microsoft, Nintendo, etc. suggest otherwise.
    There have been plenty of successful lawsuits, and piracy just keeps on happening.
    The notion that font DRM and lawsuits will stop piracy is a fantasy. It won\u2019t
    stop font piracy anymore than sticking pins in a map of Sweden will. "
  created: '2009-04-21 22:22:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "James, this is fundamentally different because the song you have on your
    computer is not public. The font on a web site is. Maybe it still won't work,
    I don't know enough to judge, but it is different. \r\n\r\nStephen Coles notes
    that [[http://talleming.com/2009/04/21/web-fonts/|Tal Leming has weighed in on
    this.]] Is his proposal the same as Berlow's?  "
  created: '2009-04-21 22:38:48'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>James, this is fundamentally different because the song you have on
    your computer is not public. The font on a web site is.</cite>\r\n\r\nSo the big
    difference between the proposed font situation and the existing situations with
    other media that it\u2019s easier for font designers to sue a pirate because the
    infringing font is on a public server? Because a few font vendors claim that they
    have the time, money, and inclination to try and recover money from pirates via
    lawyers does not justify the inevitable DMCA (or other law outside the USA) violation
    lawsuits that arise when a software is released without the DRM system and font
    vendors decide that it constitutes a circumvention device. It doesn\u2019t justify
    the resources programmers will waste coding an ineffective DRM system into their
    work to avoid getting sued. It doesn\u2019t justify the hoops end-users will have
    to jump through when the DRM fails to work properly. \r\n\r\nFont vendors who
    choose to pursue font DRM do so at their own peril, because in the end it\u2019s
    just going to end up pissing a lot of people off. That \u201CFUCK THE FOUNDRIES\u201D
    post was just a start\u2014think about what will happen when somebody sues a Linux
    distro that includes DRM-free web browsers and web font creation and editing tools.
    Font vendors are eventually going to have to realize that the only solution to
    the problem is accepting that some piracy will always happen and finding ways
    to exploit it to their advantage.\r\n\r\n<cite>Tal Leming has weighed in on this.
    Is his proposal the same as Berlow\u2019s?</cite>\r\n\r\nIt sounds like it, but
    only Dave can say for sure."
  created: '2009-04-22 02:10:01'
- author:
    name: Tal Leming
  body: "<cite>Tal Leming has weighed in on this. Is his proposal the same as Berlow\u2019s?</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>It
    sounds like it, but only Dave can say for sure.</cite>\r\n\r\nOr I can.\r\n\r\nNo,
    they are not the same. David is proposing changes for multiple font formats that
    are much larger in scope than what I'm proposing. My post details slight tweaks
    to the OpenType specification."
  created: '2009-04-22 03:51:49'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Another thing worth noting is that while fonts are fundamentally different
    from other media formats, DRM is not. The differences between the proposed simple
    font DRM systems and the convoluted encryption and watermarking systems used for
    music are not relevant to DRM\u2019s pernicious impact on the freedoms of programmers.
    Once a font DRM system is in place, it becomes illegal to circumvent it in some
    countries. This opens programmers up to civil and/or criminal suits for writing
    an application that renders text. I\u2019ll admit that nobody is asking for the
    kind of control that media conglomerates have attempted to emplace. But there
    are still a few litigious screwballs, not to mention overzealous prosecutors,
    who could really ruin somebody\u2019s day.\r\n\r\nFurther, I want to reiterate
    something that came up when this debate was had on the ATypI list last year. A
    vendor does not need any kind of font DRM system in place to crawl the web for
    license violators. As long as a vendor has a list of web domains with a legitimate
    license, he can still go after anyone using the fonts without a license. If the
    ability to catch violators is important, that can be had today, using @font-face,
    sIFR, EOT, Typeface.JS, and Cuf\xF3n."
  created: '2009-04-22 04:22:35'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "I can\u2019t read the type on Tal\u2019s page (though I could read Kaypro,
    Hyperion, and Victor 9000 screens just fine). I\u2019ll have to load it in Lynx
    later maybe.\r\n\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-04-22 05:13:31'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "@Tal: \"David is proposing changes for multiple font formats that are much
    larger in scope than what I\u2019m proposing.\"\r\n\r\nHow so? He doesn't go into
    much detail, but his brief mention of adding a new set of embedding bits doesn't
    seem \"larger in scope\" to me. Different, but not larger in scope than adding
    URLs and scrambling the beginning of the file. Arguably smaller in scope than
    Sampo's proposal which you are backing.\r\n\r\nBTW, Dave B lists four font formats.
    But two of them aren't font formats at all (FreeType and CoolType), and the distinction
    between TrueType and OpenType is rather razor-thin. Windows TrueType has evolved
    into OpenType. I suppose Apple probably maintains their TrueType spec, though.\r\n\r\nDave
    B also has the wrong target: it would be easy to get something like this added
    to the OpenType/OFF spec. The difficult hurdle is getting it accepted by the W3C.
    Sampo's proposal was already rejected by quite a few W3C members.\r\n\r\nThen
    again, maybe the most effective thing to do is to get the info into the font spec(s),
    and then press the browser makers to respect those specs. Getting them to do *anything*
    more than raw desktop fonts on web servers on their own has been a lost cause
    to date.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-04-22 08:56:21'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "tai, just a few points on your post,\r\nwhich sounds fairly reasonable...\r\n\r\n...except...\r\n\r\n>
    \  The person can license the font \r\n>   to give the designer the respect\r\n>
    \  he/she deserves for creating something \r\n>   that the person likes and wants
    to use.\r\n\r\nis this about _respect_?  or _cash_?\r\nnever mind, it's a rhetorical
    question.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   I think this could be done in a way that\r\n>   honors
    all of the work that we\u2019ve done to \r\n>   create the fonts that people want
    to use. \r\n\r\nthere's that \"want to use\" phrase again...\r\n\r\n\r\n>   Say
    you have a blog and you want to use \r\n>   a font from the XYZ foundry for headlines
    \r\n>   on your site. You go to the foundry\u2019s website, \r\n>   you enter
    the domain that your font will be \r\n>   used for, you buy a web embedding license
    \r\n>   for a small fee, you download the web font file \r\n>   and you put it
    on your site.\r\n\r\nand again, \"want to use\".\r\n\r\nthe thing is, people might
    want a variety of fonts,\r\nbut they ain't gonna be willing to _pay_ for them.\r\n\r\nthey
    won't necessarily question your \"right\" to\r\ncharge money for fonts, and they
    certainly won't\r\nargue with you that it might take a lot of time to\r\ncreate
    a good font, and they would agree that\r\nyou deserve to be compensated for your
    time...\r\n\r\nbut -- in the end -- they won't want to pay...\r\nbecause it's
    just not that _important_ to them.\r\nthey will use whatever free font they have
    now.\r\nthey don't \"want to use\" your font all that badly.\r\n\r\njust like
    they _want_ the hometown daily paper,\r\nbut they don't want it badly enough to
    subscribe,\r\nnot at the price that would keep that newspaper\r\nin the black
    and laying ink on paper every day...\r\n\r\nso even if you win the right-to-charge
    battle,\r\nyou might lose the actually-getting-paid war.\r\n\r\nwhich might mean
    you shouldn't even bother\r\nto fight that particular battle, but rather instead\r\nengage
    a different strategy so you win the war...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-22 09:24:22'
- author:
    name: Tal Leming
  body: "Thomas,\r\n\r\n<cite>@Tal: \"David is proposing changes for multiple font
    formats that are much larger in scope than what I\u2019m proposing.\"</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>How
    so? He doesn\u2019t go into much detail, but his brief mention of adding a new
    set of embedding bits doesn\u2019t seem \"larger in scope\" to me. Different,
    but not larger in scope than adding URLs and scrambling the beginning of the file.
    Arguably smaller in scope than Sampo\u2019s proposal which you are backing.</cite>\r\n\r\nFrom
    what I understand, David is proposing a new table to be added to the OpenType
    (and therefore OFF) and TrueType (does anyone even maintain the TTF specification
    anymore?) specifications. This table would be, and I'm guessing based on his vague
    statements here, similar to EEULAA. He is proposing that everything should immediately
    start honoring the bits in this new table.\r\n\r\nThe only change to the OpenType
    specification that I'm proposing is a single addition of a bit to fsType in OS/2.
    That's a backwards compatible change that doesn't require any support from font
    managers, applications or OSes. The only things that would need to understand
    this bit would be browsers, theoretical web authoring tools that work with web
    fonts and, of course, new font editors. Those applications are in the early stages
    of developing web font support, so this won't require a big change. The second
    thing my proposal does is to offer support to Sampo's idea for a web specific
    font format. The differences between this format and the OpenType format (the
    root table and the first 100 bytes) would not be rolled back into the OpenType
    specification and this new format would require only changes from applications
    that are still in the early phases of supporting web fonts.\r\n\r\nMy point is
    that the time that it will take to get a new table out of the concept stage and
    get it approved for inclusion in the OpenType specification will likely be longer
    than the lifespan of the working group that will decide the direction of web fonts.\r\n\r\n\r\nbowerbird,\r\n\r\n<cite>is
    this about _respect_? or _cash_?\r\nnever mind, it\u2019s a rhetorical question.</cite>\r\n\r\nFor
    me, it is about respect first. It's disheartening when I spend a year designing
    a typeface and then have someone explicitly or implicitly tell me, \"I can do
    what I want with this and you can't do anything about it!\" The \"_cash_\" part
    you mentioned only comes up when I need to pay my bills. If you seriously think
    that anyone becomes a professional type designer in order to get rich, you are
    quite mistaken.\r\n\r\n<cite>there\u2019s that \"want to use\" phrase again...</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm
    sorry, but I don't want to engage in a philosophical discussion about conflicting
    human desires. That's above my pay grade.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-22 14:19:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks, Tal!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-04-22 14:37:53'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks for your work on this Tal, and explaining it further here.  \r\n\r\nI
    don't know what solution is good, but I do know that the current situation of
    producers not getting paid is not sustainable. We are seeing it now dramatically
    and writ large in the case of newspapers collapsing, and online news places not
    being able to pay reporters as print media did. Something in the way the web operates
    has to change, and in a direction that rewards producers. \r\n\r\nW3C ignoring
    the needs of font designers reminds me of Hillary Clinton excluding the doctors
    from discussions of what the future health system should be. \r\n\r\nHmmm. Maybe
    we need a \"Harry and Louise\" video :)    "
  created: '2009-04-22 15:48:09'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: That whole thread with it's comments makes me really not like certain aspects
    of the FOSS community. The vitriol should be bottled up and sold as anti-fungal
    medicine.
  created: '2009-04-22 15:51:47'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I like what Tal is saying, but I don't think it really resolves the bigger
    issues. As stated, it really doesn't make it difficult to circumvent and, as such,
    doesn't really do much to actually protect the type designer via any technical
    method (which is par for the course in the world of DRM).\r\n\r\nI appreciate
    the want of the type industry to somehow manage how fonts are used on web sites.
    I don't have a solution, though. And I don't think DRM will ultimately be a solution
    either. \r\n\r\nIt seems that the issue can be distilled down to the following:\r\n\r\nType
    designers...\r\n - don't want people freely copying their fonts \r\n - (some)
    would like additional $$$ for use on web sites (and PDFs)\r\n\r\nWeb designers...\r\n
    - would like to use fonts they purchase online just as they do on paper\r\n -
    don't want to deal with another layer of technology to get it to work (DRM)\r\n\r\nUltimately
    I don't think there is a solution that will appease all of the above bullet points.
    So, there'll likely be some EULAs that favor the web designer and some that favor
    the type designer and we'll have to see where things end up in a few years."
  created: '2009-04-22 16:31:15'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I don\u2019t know what solution is good, but I do know that the current
    situation of producers not getting paid is not sustainable.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou\u2019re
    correct, but that\u2019s not the issue at hand. This isn\u2019t about giving fonts
    away, it\u2019s about selling fonts. Font designers need to focus on selling fonts
    to the thousands of web designers who want to buy them instead of worry so much
    about the people who will steal the fonts. Yes its offensive that after months
    or years of work on a typeface people will pirate it without thinking about it.
    But intellectual piracy is a force of nature. Waiting for someone to find a way
    to stop that is like sailors sitting in port all day waiting for the open ocean
    to calm. \r\n\r\n<cite>W3C ignoring the needs of font designers\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    really don\u2019t think that\u2019s the case. The W3C has heard the desires of
    the font designers (I saw desires because font DRM is a desire, not a need). But
    the W3C has to balance it against the legal, ethical, and commercial disasters
    that are the history of DRM so far. Unlike the groups that have overseen DRM in
    the past, the W3C is not a corporate entity with bottomless pockets and legions
    of lawyers and lobbyists. Asking them to implement a font DRM system is like asking
    them to smear themselves with blood and hop into a shark tank. It makes much more
    sense for them to just wait for younger font designers to start licensing for
    the web and then watch the old guard cave or die.\r\n\r\n<cite>That whole thread
    with it\u2019s comments makes me really not like certain aspects of the FOSS community</cite>\r\n\r\nNow
    imagine what its like for the people sitting on the W3C."
  created: '2009-04-22 17:50:37'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>Font designers need to focus on selling fonts to the thousands of web
    designers who want to buy them instead of worry so much about the people who will
    steal the fonts. </cite>\r\n\r\nExactly!\r\nI sympathize with a permission table
    but that will take many years to be fully implemented \u2013 and only days to
    get hacked. There will probably be an online tool or Firefox plugin where you
    just enter a URL of a website and the tool will retrieve all the used fonts with
    the permission bits changed. \r\nSo I wouln't hold my breath until such a form
    of \"protection\" is in place. I would be much more interested in discussing the
    ways in which webfonts could be licensed. It's a completely new market, so there
    are a lot of possibilities and opportunities. Why does the type industry doesn't
    discuss that? There are enough webdesigners and clients waiting to purchase webfont
    licenses. "
  created: '2009-04-22 18:56:31'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Ralf, I may have got it wrong what Tal and David envisage, but my impression
    is that the point of such a table is to have fonts that are defined for the web,
    and can be licensed as such. \r\n\r\nThe defacto situation now for print fonts
    is that if someone uses an unlicensed font for personal use, or at least not published
    widely, they don't have much of any risk of prosecution. But if it is for big
    commercial use, then they run a risk, and have a motivation to license beyond
    just wanting to be honest.  \r\n\r\nI think that the goal should be to have something
    like that for web fonts, and I thought that is what David and Tal are after.  "
  created: '2009-04-22 19:21:03'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "I do think that some of them have a point about \"media\" though. If the
    \"photographic\" industry had their druthers, and a voice in the matter, then
    the way the internet deals with images would undoubtedly be much different than
    it is today.\r\n\r\nThey are right in a sense. It's not the delivery that should
    be put through so much difficulty. It's the deliverer who should be held accountable.\r\n\r\nThat's
    why adding a basic table to new opentype fonts seems like a good idea to me. Deliver
    all of the fonts, regardless of format. Then hunt down those who blatantly use
    illegal fonts.\r\n\r\nThe web scraping technology to find illegal font users for
    that should be easy. You would have to go for the big dogs, the top of the DIGG/hot
    trends/mass viewership sites, because the dinky sites wouldn't/aren't worth it."
  created: '2009-04-22 19:21:16'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Thank you all for your fine comments. \r\n\r\nTal>He [Berlow] is proposing
    that everything should immediately start honoring the bits in this new table.\r\n
    \     WADR,  I have not proposing anything regarding honoring.\r\n\r\nWeb Authoring
    tools or browsers may do or not do anything in the presence of the proposed table.
    I support that fonts not having this table be un-considerable for web linking
    by new tools and browsers. \r\n\r\nFrom William's link:\r\n>What he fails to mention
    is that every font-consuming application on every platform on every computer on
    Earth will need to be \u201Cupgraded\u201D to \u201Crespect\u201D this permissions
    table.\r\n\r\nI failed to mention this? No I think I left it out 'cause it ain't
    there to say. The linking to PermitTabled OT fonts (or any font) is I think, strictly
    between the linker and the owner.\r\n \r\nTal >My post details slight tweaks to
    the OpenType specification.\r\nThat's nice, but it's time for the table that the
    publishing industry needs. It will span to the next format, so why not now?\r\n\r\n(Everyone
    else shoehorns their pitiful little app specific menu quirks into the std, and
    then \"Oh time's up\" or \"it's full!\"? ...or <em>\u201Clet's get out of this
    format\u201D?</em> Wise thinking, too late.)\r\n\r\nTal> to offer support to Sampo\u2019s
    idea for a web specific font format\r\nAnd how does that help us? @fontface already
    works with Raw Fonts and most browsers. Web sites are already counting on fonts
    this way. What does a digital font format for the web have to have or not have
    that the OT font does not?\r\n\r\nTP> BTW, Dave B lists four font formats.\r\nPeck
    out my eyes for completeness. \r\n\r\n>The difficult hurdle is getting it accepted
    by the W3C. \r\nThe Permissions Table is not for W3C to decide, or to implement
    anything based on, ever, (without my permission;)\r\n\r\n>\u2013 and only days
    to get hacked.\r\nOh GOd! I hadn'T ThoUghTof ThAt!\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-22 21:14:05'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"The web scraping technology to find illegal font users for that should
    be easy.\"\r\n\r\nIt could be if there was this tied-to-domain-per-license DRM.
    That said, I doubt such a DRM would be met with much applause from the consumers
    of type...let alone their clients. I also question whether there is actually a
    way to monitor said registry easily by the type foundries. \r\n\r\nMaybe I'm wrong..."
  created: '2009-04-22 23:14:21'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Count me confused. Thomas says that this has to be accepted by the W3C. David
    says no. \r\n\r\nI confess I don't understand how these proposals--Tal, David
    or Sampo--are supposed to work. \r\n\r\n1. Who has to do what? Is it Microsoft
    and Abobe that have to move on open type specifications? Who else?\r\n\r\n2. Once
    some kind of table is in existence, how is type put on the web, and who has to
    do more work to get it on the web? \r\n\r\n3. As far as enforcement, how does
    that work?\r\n\r\n4. Who is burdened by this? In what way? Who benefits?"
  created: '2009-04-23 00:48:33'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: Excellent questions, William!
  created: '2009-04-23 00:57:08'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Tracking
  created: '2009-04-23 04:02:34'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "WB wrote:\r\n\r\n<cite>Count me confused. Thomas says that this has to be
    accepted by the W3C. David says no.</cite>\r\n\r\nWell, let's put it this way.
    Putting it in the OpenType or TrueType spec doesn't *do* anything in and of itself.
    It needs to get respected by browser makers. Arguably that could happen without
    W3C approval, I suppose.\r\n\r\n<cite>I confess I don\u2019t understand how these
    proposals\u2014Tal, David or Sampo\u2014are supposed to work.</cite>\r\n\r\nThere
    is no distinct Tal proposal: he's backing Sampo's proposal.\r\n\r\n<cite>1. Who
    has to do what? Is it Microsoft and Abobe that have to move on open type specifications?
    Who else?</cite>\r\n\r\nAnybody who cares can have input to the OpenType / Open
    Font Format (OFF) spec. I'd suggest that somebody who cares get the OFF ad hoc
    group to examine both proposals and implement something for OpenType 1.7 / OFF\r\n\r\n<cite>2.
    Once some kind of table is in existence, how is type put on the web, and who has
    to do more work to get it on the web?</cite>\r\n\r\nNot defined. There are many
    different possibilities here.\r\n\r\n<cite>3. As far as enforcement, how does
    that work?</cite>\r\n\r\nDefine \"enforcement\" first.  :)\r\n\r\nBrowsers would
    need to respect the new info, for starters. But beyond that, dealing with hacked
    fonts, it would be no different than dealing with fonts stuck on web servers today.
    There could be several different ways of doing so, but most minor infringement
    will get ignored.\r\n\r\n<cite>4. Who is burdened by this? In what way? Who benefits?</cite>\r\n\r\nPeople
    who create or license fonts for money benefit. People who want to be able to legally
    use retail quality fonts on the web benefit. Browser makers are burdened by the
    need to deal with more info in fonts, and by possible legal risk under the DMCA
    (they are at least afraid of this, whether justifiably so or not).\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-04-23 05:05:25'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "William>2. Once some kind of table is in existence, how is type put on the
    web, and who has to do more work to get it on the web?\r\n\r\nWilliam, FontLab
    makes a table writer, the table is editable in FL, it's written in the fonts,
    we and our licensees are covered and can go on. (FL is suddenly claiming to have
    made the table for release soon, but it is still called EEULAAHA, so I'm dubious
    because; a. FL can't get the end point to attach to the start point, b. \"End
    Users\" are not involved in the legal or linking issues of web fonts, and c. FL
    doesn't license many fonts to web users, so they are likely to be under-clued
    as to the needs of such a table. We are writing our own for these and other reasons.\r\n\r\nThomas
    >Not defined. There are many different possibilities here.\r\n\r\nThere are not
    many different real possibilities here, though I'd love to here you stretch it.
    I have proposed discussion of a solution that is entirely, 100% self contained
    in the font industry. Anything that expects anyone else to do anything is not
    a proposal to count on. \r\n\r\n>Browser makers are burdened by the need to deal
    with more info in fonts,\r\n\r\nNo actually they are not. I put Permissions Tables
    in my fonts, site and link to them, the browser's OS displays them on the user's
    machine and no browser has to do anything. It's already done today, and that's
    how I know. \r\n\r\n>and by possible legal risk under the DMCA (they are at least
    afraid of this, whether justifiably so or not).\r\n\r\nAnd this is 50% of the
    point of my proposal for discussion. Browser makers will no longer be at risk,
    the situation passes to be between linker and founder. No other legal is solution
    is available with no work by anyone else. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-23 12:26:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thomas, David, thanks. \r\n\r\nIf I understand it rightly, David is just
    going ahead and doing this, and wants other people to come along, preferably with
    input on the best table. And that will raise awareness of and possibility of enforcement
    of licenses to web site owners for web use, paid by site owner but not user, without
    any additional steps. \r\n\r\nRight? "
  created: '2009-04-23 13:59:01'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I put Permissions Tables in my fonts, site and link to them, the browser\u2019s
    OS displays them on the user\u2019s machine and no browser has to do anything.</cite>\r\n\r\nI\u2019m
    confused. Are you saying that the end-users computers won\u2019t ever be handling
    the permission table, that the OS will handle the permission table, or that you
    just want to put the permission table out there and not worry about whether or
    not apps that render type ever support the permission bit?"
  created: '2009-04-23 16:03:50'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Yes. Doing it ourselves is the most effective option we have between the
    rapidly and slow moving W3C and the slow, slower, and possibly done OTF/F standards
    committee. And it's not just for enforcement/promulgation of licenses to web site
    owners, but also to the EOTs and Cuf\xF3ns of the world that we must address changes,
    as the authors of those tm-busting services, wish to use only the PDF permissions
    for everything imaginable, and forever. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-04-23 16:05:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "David, are you saying that the current version of FontLab can generate this
    table? How do you get it to connect the dots for both type designers and users?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-04-23 16:18:52'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Dave, have you considered writing up a white paper about your permission
    bits plan and publishing it with signatures from Fontlab and whoever else is on
    board? Your idea would probably be getting a much better reaction if you just
    put it all out there instead of dribbling out a little detail here. People aren\u2019t
    too keen on what appear to be schemes hatched in secret, and I think it probably
    looks especially strange to non-type designers convinced that Microsoft is already
    the Vanguard on this issue."
  created: '2009-04-23 16:27:09'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "David: <em>\u201CEnd Users\u201D are not involved in the legal or linking
    issues of web fonts</em>\r\n\r\nThey are not? Well, what <em>is</em> the legal
    or contractual relationship between a font vendor and a website reader who, by
    chance, finds a full-working font by said vendor on his hard drive after visiting
    a website? Would any EULA be valid for this user? It might be quite hard to prove
    that the user wanted to enter an agreement with a third party when he thought
    he was just visiting a website.\r\n\r\nI think that's an interesting question,
    but I really can't come up with an answer."
  created: '2009-04-23 16:34:52'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "What, exactly, does this table do? I'm a bit confused about that. Who/what
    is talking to who/what when a font is requested from the server?\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-23 16:44:19'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: ">   I\u2019m sorry, but I don\u2019t want to \r\n>   engage in a philosophical
    discussion \r\n>   about conflicting human desires. \r\n>   That\u2019s above
    my pay grade.\r\n\r\nmine too.\r\n\r\nfortunately, that's not what it was,\r\na
    \"philosophical\" discussion. nope,\r\nit is _practical,_ pure and complete.\r\n\r\nso
    let me attempt a rephrase...\r\n\r\nyou're doing a lot of work\r\ntrying to build
    a system\r\nto sell your work, without\r\nfirst having determined if\r\nenough
    customers want to\r\npay your price to buy it...\r\n\r\nyou are assuming there
    is\r\na demand for your product.\r\n\r\nmaybe there is.  maybe not.\r\n\r\ni certainly
    don't sense it, but\r\nmy experience is irrelevant...\r\n\r\nso i'm not informing
    you that\r\nthere's no demand out there.\r\n\r\nbut i _am_ suggesting that you\r\nmight
    want to find out if there\r\nis enough demand before you\r\nspend time building
    a system.\r\n\r\nor -- to say it another way --\r\nyou might find out, after having\r\nspent
    a lot of time and energy\r\nbuilding a d.r.m. system that is\r\ncracked \"in a
    couple days\", that\r\neven when people _can_ steal your\r\nfonts, we have no
    desire to do so.\r\n\r\nmost of us font heathens out here\r\nhave more than enough
    fonts now,\r\nso we have settled in with a few that\r\nhave become our \"favorites\"
    and we\r\nare happy with the current situation.\r\nwe don't think we need more
    fonts,\r\nand you probably can't convince us.\r\n\r\nbut hey, maybe you know something\r\nthat
    i don't know.  maybe your clients\r\nfor your print fonts are calling you up\r\non
    a daily basis and asking you _when_\r\nthey'll be able to use your fonts online,\r\nand
    offering to throw so much money\r\nat you that you cannot afford to ignore\r\nthis
    opportunity for a huge cash inflow\r\nfrom corporations with money to burn.\r\nin
    which case, i'd say \"yeah, fleece 'em.\"\r\n\r\nmaybe there's some things i don't
    know.\r\n\r\ni dunno...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-23 20:20:01'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Welcome,\r\n\r\n>What type designers and font vendors want is that web fonts
    can not be easily copied from the web (or browser cache) into OS font folder and
    re-used in other applications. \r\n\r\nNot I, that is so far gone since 1990 I
    can't imagine going back. Any user anywhere can get any font they want and install
    it. They have not to wait for the web.  \r\n\r\n>Adding a bit that is ignored
    by all existing OSes and applications would do nothing to stop this.\r\nYes, but
    adding a bit that is not ignored by everything is out of the question. \r\n\r\nSo,
    the world has given us this choice. Even if your miracle MTX format doesn't allow
    users actual fonts, it'll be hacked. \r\nThen, you'll have a hacked font with
    no permissions to start and certainly none in the end. \r\n\r\nSo the permissions
    tables come first, any format you want to which the permissions grant conversion,
    then is okay. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-23 21:48:02'
- author:
    name: Vlad Levantovsky
    picture: 117231
  body: "Disclaimer: I work for Monotype Imaging, the information presented below
    is my opinion only and may not represent the official Monotype Imaging position.\r\n\r\nTal
    wrote:\r\n\"The only change to the OpenType specification that I\u2019m proposing
    is a single addition of a bit to fsType in OS/2. That\u2019s a backwards compatible
    change that doesn\u2019t require any support from font managers, applications
    or OSes. The only things that would need to understand this bit would be browsers
    ...\"\r\n\r\nI am afraid this is exactly the reason why adding a new fsType bit,
    or a whole new table wouldn't accomplish anything. What type designers and font
    vendors want is that web fonts can not be easily copied from the web (or browser
    cache) into OS font folder and re-used in other applications. Adding a bit that
    is ignored by all existing OSes and applications would do nothing to stop this.\r\n\r\nFont
    vendors do not want raw Truetype / OpenType fonts be served on the web to prevent
    font piracy. Luckily, web masters do not want to serve raw fonts either (you can
    find many embedded fonts discussions on www.webmasterworld.com). They need compressed
    fonts beause they want to minimize the amount of data transmitted from a web server
    to reduce traffic, and web designers want to speed up webpage download times.
    I understand that EOT domain locking mechanism may get in the way and be an obstacle
    when web content is staged on different servers, but EOT also employs lossless
    font-specific compression (MicroType Express (MTX), developed by Monotype) that,
    on average, is 30% better that zip. \r\n\r\nI believe that if web fonts are just
    served compressed using MTX, this would be a win-win situation for both font vendors
    and web developers. A browser would have to simply decompress the file to use
    a font for rendering. An MTX compressed font file can not be used \"as is\" in
    OS applications and because the compression is not generic, it would at the same
    time work as the obfuscator to create a barrier for font piracy. Yes, I do realize
    that soon enough we'll see decompressor tool available on the web, and that there
    is nothing font vendors can do to stop people who are determined to steal a font.
    MTX will minimize web traffic (which is even more important for slow connections)
    and will prevent casual misuse because the compressed font can not be simply copied
    from a browser cache and used elsewhere. I do believe that 99% of users will not
    knowingly seek a tool that would allow them to rip the font from the MTX-compressed
    file.\r\n\r\nMonotype Imaging has agreed to provide MTX compression free of charge
    on W3C royalty-free terms. So far, browser vendors oppose to implement it, they
    say it's to much work even though the source code implementation is readily available
    as part of the MTX spec (http://www.w3.org/Submission/2008/SUBM-MTX-20080305/).\r\n\r\n-Vlad"
  created: '2009-04-23 21:53:49'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Who/what is talking to who/what when a font is requested from the server?\r\nCSS
    is talking to the UA which is talking to the server delivering to the UA. \r\n\r\nWhat
    is so confusing?\r\n\r\n>They are not? Well, what is the legal or contractual
    relationship between a font vendor and a website reader who, by chance, finds
    a full-working font by said vendor on his hard drive after visiting a website?\r\n\r\n>I
    think that\u2019s an interesting question, but I really can\u2019t come up with
    an answer.\r\nDo you want end users to be involved non-accidentally? Nobody does.
    We want them to get the benefit of superior type and typography, if possible.
    If a few fonts end up loose, (with a permission table that says it belongs to
    X under license to Y), who cares?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-04-23 21:59:37'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Vlad, thanks for coming on this discussion. \r\n\r\nWhen you edit on Typophile,
    it changes the location to last. David, above, was responding to your first post,
    now below his. It is less confusing for readers here to add corrections or modifications
    in a new post, unless you know no one else has posted yet.  "
  created: '2009-04-23 22:01:01'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "@bowerbird: Please format your submissions to at least 7 (and preferably
    10 or 12) words per line. \r\nYour current layout freaks me out. Which is nice-speak
    for \u2018I am unable to to read it\u2019.\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-04-23 22:21:33'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"CSS is talking to the UA which is talking to the server delivering to the
    UA.\r\nWhat is so confusing?\"\r\n\r\nThat's what we have now, no? What is the
    point of adding this table to the whole thing? Sounds like as Vlad mentions the
    browsers would have to be updated to a) use said bit b) restrict use of fonts
    based on said bit c) somehow not allow add-ons/plugins to circumvent said bit.\r\n\r\n@bert
    bowerbird is the local troll. Best just to ignore it if you can't read it. (like
    I do). "
  created: '2009-04-23 22:33:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"@bowerbird: Please format your submissions to ...\"\r\n\r\nI thought I
    was the only one who wanted to puke from over-scrolling when I saw those tiny
    line lengths. Is this a control issue thing? Please step away from the return
    key and just let the lines wrap on their own.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-04-23 22:54:45'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Coming in from left field here...\r\n\r\nI wonder if it would be possible
    for type vendors to host the font files on their own server, and then license
    links to the files as a web extension, or web-only license? Seems like this keeps
    the permissions/access separate from the font files. I'm envisioning a per-domain
    license, where once a user buys a license, they can login and manage their domains
    as needed.\r\n\r\nObviously this doesn't fix the problem of people with print
    licenses from posting the files, but it does offer a relatively painless way for
    web designers who want to be legal to license. I'm envisioning this kind of license
    would be cheaper as you could only use it for one client. Maybe someone can turn
    this into a good idea. Or maybe it's a stinker from the get go :-)\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-24 00:24:14'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Vlad wrote: <cite>but EOT also employs lossless font-specific compression
    (MicroType Express (MTX), developed by Monotype) that, on average, is 30% better
    that zip.</cite>\r\n\r\nI believe that's comparing Zip *without subsetting* to
    MTX. If you assume subsetting first, the difference drops to 10%, IIRC. Also,
    MTX does next to nothing for OpenType CFF, as it's already compacted, right?\r\n\r\nBowerbird
    or anybody else new to the discussion: Yes, there is plenty of demand from both
    web designers and organizations/people with web sites. There's also plenty of
    evidence that even minor barriers to piracy will stop most users from pirating.
    We know that some people are going to pirate regardless, and putting even strong
    DRM on web versions of fonts won't stop that... meaning there's no point to strong
    DRM on web fonts. But most piracy can be deterred by \"DRM Extra Lite,\" so that's
    all that's really needed. \r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-04-24 01:22:15'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "@Randy\r\nI don't understand why they aren't already doing that. I mean,
    my company already does that with photos. As long as OUR site calls the image,
    it gets displayed fine. If you're someone trying to \"hotlink\" the image, then
    our server automatically switches the output to whatever we want. I wanted to
    switch it to something awesome, like a Rick Roll or something, but we instead
    pointed it at an ad.\r\n\r\nNow imagine the same scenario for fonts. It's the
    exact same principle. When someone tries to hotlink your font un-authorized, we
    simply replace it with \"the font\", i.e., Papyrus or something.\r\n\r\nThat would
    be totally sweet."
  created: '2009-04-24 01:29:32'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Randy...that would be the best from the foundry protecting-its-files standpoint,
    but if we're talking a site like Amazon or Wikipedia or the like, they'd quickly
    be killed with giant hosting bills. ;0)\r\n\r\n\"There\u2019s also plenty of evidence
    that even minor barriers to piracy will stop most users from pirating\"\r\n\r\nReally?
    Such as? (I'm curious)\r\n\r\nI agree that 'extra lite' is the key but really
    haven't found such a thing yet. Usually, extra lite means 'easy to circumvent
    anyways'.\r\n\r\nI envision 3 kind of font users:\r\n\r\n 1) people that just
    want fonts and will do whatever to get them for free\r\n 2) designers who understand
    the value of fonts and will pay for them\r\n 3) designers who understand the value
    of fonts and will pay for them up to the point where things get sticky with complex
    EULAs pertaining to using it for this vs. that vs. pdf vs. flash vs. web who then
    may or may not bother with even reading the EULA and either not buy the font,
    or use it outside of the EULA.\r\n\r\nNothing can be done about #1.\r\n\r\nNothing
    had to be done about #2.\r\n\r\nSo that leaves #3. Seems that ideally, for that
    person, the foundries would just try to make it really easy to implement a solution
    for online fonts.\r\n\r\nI could be missing a form of user, though. Others?\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-24 02:08:24'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: ">>a site like Amazon or Wikipedia or the like, they\u2019d quickly be killed
    with giant hosting bills.\r\n\r\nThen the foundries pony up for an Amazon S3 content
    distribution system that allows the same controls over who gets to actually access
    the end product.\r\n\r\nAn added benefit of that is then the fonts will load faster,
    since they're being hosted in the cloud rather than on whatever dinky server the
    foundry is hosting their own site on.\r\n\r\nWin-Win."
  created: '2009-04-24 02:12:03'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "randy-\r\n\r\ni'm right here in left field with you,\r\nwondering the same
    thing, so thanks\r\nfor asking the question.  i assume there\r\nmight be some
    problems with _latency_,\r\nbut that wouldn't be a killer per se, as it\r\ncould
    be solved with enough resources...\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nthomas said:\r\n>   Bowerbird
    or anybody else new to the discussion: \r\n>   Yes, there is plenty of demand
    from both web \r\n>   designers and organizations/people with web sites.\r\n\r\nso
    go make yourself some happy customers.\r\nthat's all i'm saying...\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  There\u2019s also plenty of evidence that even minor \r\n>   barriers to piracy
    will stop most users from pirating.\r\n\r\nall the more reason to make yourself
    some customers.\r\n\r\nyou gotta expect zero individuals will bother paying,\r\nand
    write off any \"piracy\" they do as \"good publicity\".\r\nuse it as a selling
    point: \"people love our fonts, see?\"\r\n\r\nat the same time, very few _businesses_
    would pirate,\r\neven without d.r.m. of any sort, simply because such\r\nan action
    would be dirt-simple to detect, and therefore\r\nexpose them to an obvious, direct,
    and immediate risk.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   We know that some people are going to pirate
    regardless,\r\n\r\nand still more reason to make yourself some customers.\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  putting even strong DRM on web versions of fonts won\u2019t stop that...\r\n\r\nit's
    so good to hear people say things that resonate to the real world.\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  meaning there\u2019s no point to strong DRM on web fonts. \r\n>   But most
    piracy can be deterred by \u201CDRM Extra Lite,\u201D \r\n>   so that\u2019s all
    that\u2019s really needed.\r\n\r\nthomas, you were doing _so_ well, right up to
    this last little bit...\r\n\r\nthis idea that \"a little d.r.m.\" will \"do the
    trick\" is so pervasive\r\nthat it almost becomes persuasive, which is ludicrous
    because\r\nit's so wrong wrong wrong.  d.r.m. is impossible, and it's just as\r\nimpossible
    to do \"d.r.m. extra lite\" as it is to do any d.r.m. at all.\r\n\r\nbut somehow
    our minds fall for the trick that \"a little d.r.m.\"\r\nshould be easy to accomplish,
    and -- since it would do _so_\r\nmuch good, by keeping \"honest people honest\"
    -- that it's\r\na good path to pursue on a cost-benefit basis.  but it's not...\r\n\r\nit's
    _not_.\r\n\r\nbecause, just like a \"little\" d.r.m. is _impossible_ to accomplish,\r\nit's
    also the case that a \"little\" d.r.m. doesn't do much deterring.\r\n\r\nit ends
    up that a flimsy lock is usually worse than no lock at all.\r\nbecause anyone
    with any intention of breaking the lock will carry\r\na hammer big enough to smash
    it.  so the only people who get\r\n\"locked out\" are the people who never carry
    around a hammer,\r\nthat is, the \"honest\" people, who you also know as \"customers\".\r\n\r\nand
    so, too, it is with \"d.r.m. extra lite\".  the _only_ people who\r\nare adversely
    effected by it are customers, present and future...\r\n\r\nand those adverse effects
    often occur when your d.r.m. backfires;\r\nit's _your_ fault it acts inappropriately,
    but your customer suffers.\r\n\r\nnot only that, but the lock is a symbolic indicator
    to the customer\r\nthat you do not _trust_ them, and this rankles an honest person...\r\n\r\nends
    up honest people don't need anything to \"keep\" them honest.\r\nthey just _are_.
    \ the most you might need is a nice polite request...\r\n\r\nif i were you guys,
    i would do this.\r\n\r\ni would go to the browser people, and say \"we want you
    guys to\r\nuse our fonts, so tell us how we can make it easy for you to do.\"\r\nand
    then do what they say.  let them know that you are looking\r\nto get paid, maybe
    relative to how often your fonts are used, and\r\nwork it out with them to make
    it happen to everyone's satisfaction,\r\nand forget all this stuff about permission
    tables and d.r.m. stuff...\r\nnobody needs it.  it doesn't deliver any benefits.
    \ it just adds costs.\r\n\r\notherwise, you're gonna spend a whole lot of time
    and energy to\r\nbuild a cash-register, but no one is gonna walk into your store...\r\n\r\nin
    a phrase:  forget piracy and maximize sales instead.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-24 02:14:06'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "dan: the problem is that someone has to pay for that hosting. How would that
    work? I suppose you could charge it as a hosted service, but at that point, I
    can see a lot of web designers/clients just saying 'meh...use verdana with a bit
    of sIFR' and forget about it.\r\n\r\nNot trying to kill the idea...merely pointing
    out that hosting costs can sneak up on you. "
  created: '2009-04-24 02:44:34'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "S3 is actually quite affordable. Much more so than trying to afford the servers
    and the bandwidth yourself. [[http://aws.amazon.com/s3/#pricing]]\r\n\r\n\u201CPay
    only for what you use. There is no minimum fee.\u201D\r\n\r\nSounds reasonable
    to me. The foundry has the agreement with Amazon, sets up the domain/font access
    permissions, and includes the hosting fee as a minimal addition to the cost of
    licensing the font. \r\n\r\nIf you did it right, you could even structure the
    contract price based on time. Only want it for a year? $15. Indefinite? $50. You
    could call it Rent-a-font.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-24 03:18:31'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: I'm curious what people on the foundry side think of the hosted font idea?
  created: '2009-04-24 04:42:16'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"includes the hosting fee as a minimal addition to the cost of licensing
    the font\"\r\n\r\nYea, that's where I see the plan not working so well. I like
    the idea, though. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-24 05:35:48'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>I wonder if it would be possible for type vendors to host the font
    files on their own server, and then license links to the files as a web extension,
    or web-only license? </cite>\r\n\r\nI am proposing this idea for some time now.
    See my webfonts survey and my comments:\r\nhttp://opentype.info/blog/2008/04/19/font-face-survey-results/\r\n\r\nSuch
    a service is not hard to set up. I will do it myself if I would ever find the
    time. \r\n\r\nStill, I would consider this a promising market, but an additional
    market. The majority of today's users still want a regular way of licensing, which
    means: Pay once and get the font files (to be uploaded on their own server). And
    we cannot change this system just because of our security issues. \r\nWe also
    experimented with ways how OT/TT files could be manipulated so they will work
    in the browser, but not in the user's OS. There are several ways to achieve this.
    So this DRM-lite is already possible. If there will be a standard way of doing
    it in the future, that's fine with me. But we will not wait for this to happen
    and start selling webfonts rather sooner than later, probably later this year,
    when Firefox 3.5 will have @font-face support in their regular version. \r\n\r\n\r\nSome
    people seem to doubt that \"users\" would pay for webfonts at all. But professional
    webfonts are probably not for private users with a MySpace page (they have plenty
    of Dafont and open source fonts to choose from). Professional webfonts are licensed
    through professional design studies. Especially for webdesign studios it is very
    common to license software for a project, for example a Content Management System
    or an E-Commerce solution, or even just a tiny plugin for those systems. Those
    packages usually come with a per-domain license. The design studio will purchase
    that license and bill it to the client. Those packages are not protected in any
    way, but if a second client wants that same system the studio would license it
    again for this new website. So such a procedure is nothing new and licensing webfonts
    in this way would be no problem. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2009-04-24 08:17:09'
- author:
    name: Vlad Levantovsky
    picture: 117231
  body: "Thomas Phinney wrote:\r\n<em>I believe that\u2019s comparing Zip *without
    subsetting* to MTX. If you assume subsetting first, the difference drops to 10%,
    IIRC. Also, MTX does next to nothing for OpenType CFF, as it\u2019s already compacted,
    right? </em>\r\n\r\nI am comparing ZIP to MTX on the same input data set, without
    subsetting. For example, Verdana.ttf is 137KB, compressed by ZIP is 81KB, and
    58KB when compressed by MTX. ZIP file size is 39.6% larger than MTX. The relative
    compression gain remains the same if you subset the font. However, if as a result
    of subsetting the font file size becomes really small, the compression efficiency
    will go down for both ZIP and MTX, and because MTX is most efficient when compressing
    glyf table data you will see less of a difference between ZIP and MTX when the
    glyf table size is small.\r\n\r\nI agree, MTX will do nothing to compress CFF
    table (it's already compressed) but it will reduce the size of other tables in
    a font, and it will also obfuscate the OpenType CFF font so that it cannot be
    used on a desktop directly.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nVlad\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-24 10:30:37'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "ralf-\r\n\r\nsounds like you got it figured out!  best of luck with it!\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-24 10:53:51'
- author:
    name: Vlad Levantovsky
    picture: 117231
  body: "I wrote: <em>\r\n> What type designers and font vendors want is that \r\n>
    web fonts can not be easily copied from the web \r\n> (or browser cache) into
    OS font folder and re-used \r\n> in other applications. </em>\r\n\r\ndberlow wrote:\r\n<em>Not
    I, that is so far gone since 1990 I can\u2019t imagine going back. Any user anywhere
    can get any font they want and install it. They have not to wait for the web.
    </em>\r\n\r\nI am sorry, I am not sure I understand what you are referring to.
    Are you saying that any user today can get any font they want for free, without
    license? I don't believe this is the case.\r\n\r\n<em>\r\n> Adding a bit that
    is ignored by all existing OSes \r\n> and applications would do nothing to stop
    this.\r\n\r\nYes, but adding a bit that is not ignored by everything is out of
    the question. </em>\r\n\r\nAgree, but I am not sure I understand how this is relevant.\r\n\r\n<em>So,
    the world has given us this choice. Even if your miracle MTX format doesn\u2019t
    allow users actual fonts, it\u2019ll be hacked.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, and I believe
    I attempted to make it very clear in my post. No encryption or DRM will ever stop
    a person who is determined to rip a font. However, obfuscating font data so that
    it can't be used without hacking will stop people from \"discovering\" fully functional
    raw font files on their hard drives. And, since I believe that serving uncompressed
    font data (any data, in fact) is a waste of bandwidth, MTX is the most efficient
    font compression that can also be an effective obfuscation tool.\r\n\r\n<em>Then,
    you\u2019ll have a hacked font with no permissions to start and certainly none
    in the end. \r\n\r\nSo the permissions tables come first, any format you want
    to which the permissions grant conversion, then is okay. </em>\r\n\r\nI am trying
    really hard to understand what the permission table will do and whether a browser
    or an OS would be responsible for processing that data. How do you expect browser
    vendors to agree to implement and support it? So far, they've been very reluctant
    to support even embedding bits.\r\n\r\nI would really appreciate more info on
    your proposed permission table functionality.\r\n\r\nThank you,\r\nVlad\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-24 11:05:22'
- author:
    name: Vlad Levantovsky
    picture: 117231
  body: "@Ralf Herrmann\r\n\r\nThank you for conducting the survey and sharing the
    results. I find it very interesting but it also raises some questions:\r\n1) If
    a web font is hosted on font vendor website and is offered based on pay-per-use
    or subscription-fee model - what would be your web hosting costs if your clients
    get many millions of hits per year?\r\n2) Has any of your survey participants
    ever raised concerns about privacy? Technically, hosting a web font would allow
    you to track the number of hits for different client websites. Is this an issue
    (I assume it can be)?\r\n3) What will be a font vendor liability if, for whatever
    reason, a font can not be served to a client website visitor, and the content
    layout is broken as a result?\r\n(These are just a few that I can think of right
    now)\r\n\r\nThank you,\r\nVlad\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-24 11:39:44'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "ME> Yes, but adding a bit that is not ignored by everything is out of the
    question.\r\nVLAD> Agree, but I am not sure I understand how this is relevant.\r\n\r\nI
    see... adding a table that only deals with the legal rights of the font, as I
    propose, is irrelevant? \r\nObfuscating font data, then revising all browsers
    and OSs to use it, as you propose, is a good idea?\r\n\r\nMe (from before my previous
    post) >The linking to PermitTabled OT fonts (or any font) is I think, strictly
    between the linker and the owner.\r\n\r\n>I am trying really hard to understand
    what the permission table will do and whether a browser or an OS would be responsible
    for processing that data. \r\n\r\n>How do you expect browser vendors to agree
    to implement and support it?\r\n>I would really appreciate more info on your proposed
    permission table functionality.\r\nTo say exactly what the founder said to say,
    sit in the font and stay the same. That's all that's 'demanded' from my side.
    No browser or an OS would be responsible for processing that data. \r\n\r\nVLAD>
    \ Are you saying that any user today can get any font they want for free, without
    license? I don\u2019t believe this is the case.\r\nDo you live in prison or something?
    ;) Oh, sorry, no prisoners can get all the fonts they want for free too. Ummm,
    do you live on earth?\r\n\r\nRandy>I wonder if it would be possible for type vendors
    to host the font files on their own server, and then license links to the files
    as a web extension, or web-only license? \r\n\r\nThat's the plan, but, we want
    to be licensing something distinctly different from the print font. The permissions
    tabled font is the beginning of fonts distinctly different from the print font.
    And... without a distinction that forces apps to rev. but with a legal distinction.
    \r\n\r\nThank you, this has been a good conversation.\r\n\r\nCheers! \r\n"
  created: '2009-04-24 11:44:09'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>what would be your web hosting costs if your clients get many millions
    of hits per year?</cite>\r\n\r\nThe license costs would depend on the number of
    hits, just as any webhosting provider might charge you more when your traffic
    exceeds a certain limit. \r\n\r\n<cite>Technically, hosting a web font would allow
    you to track the number of hits for different client websites. Is this an issue
    (I assume it can be)?</cite>\r\n\r\nGood point. The webfont service provider would
    have to ensure that those data is not misused. But again: We're not inventing
    something new here. Including external services is common practise in webdesign
    (e.g. page counters, news applets, feed services and so on.)\r\n\r\n<cite>3) What
    will be a font vendor liability if, for whatever reason, a font can not be served
    to a client website visitor, and the content layout is broken as a result?</page>\r\n\r\nI
    don't think that's an issue nowadays. The service should be based on a reliable
    server (Amazon S3, Google App Engine et cetera) and the website layout cannot
    be \"broken\", since fallback fonts will always be around, because users will
    always have the chance do deactivate font-embedding on the client side."
  created: '2009-04-24 11:57:02'
- author:
    name: Vlad Levantovsky
    picture: 117231
  body: "@dberlow\r\n\r\nDavid,\r\nI am trying really hard to understand your proposal.
    So far, I see that you propose a permission table be added to a font, and that
    this font can be served on the web if:\r\n- web use is permitted by the font license
    (and this permission is reflected in the permission table), and\r\n- your licensee
    can then link the raw font to his web content.\r\nAm I right?\r\n\r\nWhat I don't
    see is how this information will protect the font from being misused. What if
    million of copies of the font end up being installed on the machines that were
    used to access the website you licensed it to? How the permission table will prevent
    this? How will it protect your copyright owner rights if no application will ever
    be able to access the information in the permission table? And how is the permission
    table different from just encoding a link to the text of the EULA where all the
    rights granted by the license are spelled out in details (something that has been
    done for years)?\r\n\r\nDavid, you and I are in the same boat here, its not about
    my proposal vs your proposal. I am trying to find a way to enable web fonts and
    to protect font IP at the same time. It's not just about our IP, it is also about
    all those type designers who trust us to license their fonts and to pay them royalty
    for every copy of their fonts being distributed and to protect their IP rights.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nVlad\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-24 13:11:51'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Is it just me or are dberlow's replies completely unhelpful in actually understanding
    what he's talking about? I'm honestly trying to understand your table idea, dberlow.
    Feel free to call me names. Use sarcasm as much as you want. But please do try
    to explain it to me! \r\n\r\nYou say nothing is going to be changed at the browser
    level. If that's the case, what does this permission table actually do? As it
    is now, there's no need/concept of a permission table at the browser level, so
    how would adding this table change anything? Is it merely a table for foundries
    to ping as some sort of licensing log?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-24 14:26:11'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Is it just me or are dberlow\u2019s replies completely unhelpful in
    actually understanding what he\u2019s talking about?</cite>\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s not
    just you. Dave\u2019s posts on this topic are one step away from bonkers. Whatever
    his plan is, I think it\u2019s safe to say that he\u2019s not really interested
    in what anyone else does."
  created: '2009-04-24 16:26:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I support what David is suggesting 100%.\r\nI think it's safe to say that
    whatever is good for Font Bureau will be good for other independent foundries,
    and feasible for the industry as a whole.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-24 18:03:04'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: Nick...you know what he's saying? If so, please explain! ;o)
  created: '2009-04-24 18:41:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I know what it means, but \u2026\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-24 19:39:04'
- author:
    name: JohnM
  body: "I`m just waiting for free google webfonts. \r\n\r\nIf they have interest
    in hosting the javascript I use, I guess they will have interest in free hosted
    google webfonts too..."
  created: '2009-04-24 21:00:26'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "bowerbird:\r\n\r\n\"Wrong, wrong, wrong\"? Next time you go off on a rant,
    have some evidence.\r\n\r\nThe type industry already have over a decade's worth
    of evidence that \"DRM Extra Lite\" can work reasonably well, in the form of embedding
    bits for print usage. Some vendors don't allow such embedding, or allow it for
    view and print but not editable embedding. They set their fonts appropriately.
    Most users who run into restrictions due to the embedding bit settings don't hack
    their fonts to get around this, they just accept it. Would it be easy to hack
    the fonts? Sure. Do a large percentage of people do it? No. If they don't like
    the restrictions, they learn from the experience, and maybe they license different
    fonts.\r\n\r\nSo, you're saying a nearly identical mechanism wouldn't work for
    the web, because...?\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-24 21:31:22'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Re: hosted webfonts and bandwidth insanity\r\n\r\nSeems this is the biggest
    question: What happens when the hits go nuts and bandwidth skyrockets?? \r\n\r\nSeems
    like the foundry could offer a basic web license that would guarantee a certain
    amount of bandwidth (impressions) that would be adequate for 95% of websites.
    When you get to people like Amazon or Wikipedia, or any site really where bandwidth
    would be crushing, this is a different kind of client entirely. They have already
    solved their bandwidth issues. License them to use the fonts on their own servers
    for a higher fee.\r\n\r\nOR\r\n\r\nSomebody starts a company that services the
    foundries and builds a robust enough back end to handle it. We're talking small
    font files not video. The load wouldn't be THAT crazy."
  created: '2009-04-24 22:51:14'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Thomas, the PDF embedding bits serve a different purpose than web fonts and
    are deployed differently. Not many fonts disallow embedding, and while many disallow
    embedding into editable documents, I don\u2019t get the impression that many people
    are creating editable PDFs using fonts other than common system fonts. I don\u2019t
    see a big desire on the part of users to get their hands on collections of fonts
    that allow PDF embedding. Given this I don\u2019t think that the example of PDF
    embedding bits is an accurate analogy to how users might react to permission bits
    in fonts.\r\n\r\nA better analogy might be the DRM-extra-light system that Adobe
    uses to protect its software from piracy. Just a simple serial number and a registration
    system that phones home for some products. Any before any Adobe product makes
    it to retail, thousands of people are already using cracked copies and monitoring
    every outgoing nework port on their machine for attempts to contact Adobe. Because
    unlike PDF with editable content, people are actually interested in getting Adobe
    software for free. \r\n\r\nI think that there are many, many more people who want
    to embed fonts in web pages than in editable PDFs. And I think that there would
    be quite a demand for cracking tools and cracked, just as there is for DVDs or
    software keys. But I also believe that, as with software, most of the demand for
    pirate fonts comes from people who would not buy the fonts anyway, and they probably
    aren\u2019t really worth worrying about."
  created: '2009-04-24 23:29:48'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "thomas said:\r\n>   Next time you go off on a rant, have some evidence.\r\n\r\nit
    wasn't a \"rant\".  there was no emotion in it at all from this end.\r\nif you
    injected some in at that end, that's something that you did.\r\n\r\ni'm just entertaining
    myself, talking with y'all...                 :+)\r\n\r\nanyway...\r\n\r\nyou
    say you've got \"d.r.m. extra lite\", and that it's working just fine,\r\nand
    the \"evidence\" you cite is that honest people are acting honestly.\r\n\r\nok,
    i must be wrong.\r\n\r\nd.r.m. \"extra light\" must be workable, and you've got
    it working fine,\r\nand it's protecting you, as good as it can, from the dishonest
    people.\r\n\r\nso it sounds like all the problems are solved.\r\n\r\n(in other
    words, if you tell me you've got a frog in your pocket, and\r\nyou're willing
    to bet me money that you've got a frog in your pocket,\r\ni'd be a fool to bet
    that you _don't_ have a frog in your pocket, right?)\r\n\r\nso it sounds like
    all the problems are solved.\r\n\r\nwhich means we'll be seeing webfonts in use
    any day now, correct?\r\ni look forward to that day, very soon, and i don't want
    to miss it, so\r\ncould you please have your people call my people when it happens?\r\n\r\nthanks
    a bunch.\r\n\r\nyou see, i _do_ want you to correct me when i'm wrong.  after
    all,\r\nat the end of the day, that's what i'm here for, to learn from you...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\np.s.
    \ and maybe now that you guys have some time free, you could\r\ndo something about
    that global warming thing al gore talks about?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-25 04:37:32'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "James:\r\n\r\nIt's true that there are a minority of fonts out there which
    completely disallow PDF embedding, but there are some, and mostly people don't
    mess with their embedding bits. Working for Adobe from 1997-2008 I learned a wee
    bit about how users work with these fonts.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-04-25 08:03:24'
- author:
    name: masterdimav
  body: "# [[some text]], where \"some text\" is the title of existing content or
    the title of a new piece of content to create. You can also link text to a different
    title by using [[link to this title|show this text]]. Link to outside URLs with
    [[http://www.example.com|some text]], or even [[http://www.example.com]].\r\n#
    Allowed HTML tags: <a></a> <em></em> <strong></strong> <cite></cite> <code></code>
    <ul></ul> <ol></ol> <li></li> <dl></dl> <dt></dt> <dd></dd>\r\n# Lines and paragraphs
    break automatically.\r\n# Web page addresses and e-mail addresses turn into links
    a"
  created: '2009-04-25 12:11:02'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Talking about this is like dancing about architecture.
  created: '2009-04-25 19:44:10'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "i'm gonna turn off the italics with a tag right here,</em>\r\nand then turn
    off the bold with a tag right here,</strong>\r\nso the rest of this thread can
    walk erect, yet without hubris.\r\n\r\n<blink>-bowerbird</blink>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-25 21:45:49'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: And after all this time you all can't tell when Mr Berlow is having a wank.
    Astonishing!
  created: '2009-04-26 02:14:21'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Here's a link talking about hosting your fonts:\r\nhttp://openfontlibrary.org/wiki/Blocking_drive-by_access"
  created: '2009-04-26 05:05:17'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "James de Clairavista: \"Astonishing!\"\r\nWow, sorry I missed this one. \r\n\r\nJames
    I have not played doctor for while now, but here's some help for ya: place your
    left hand on your right shoulder. Feel down to the first big bump \u2014 this
    is your elbow. The next part's a little difficult because you can't see your own,
    but ya if look way, way up the flagpole of understanding you can seen the other
    part, it's mine though, and hopefully one day you'll understand the difference.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-04-30 11:31:46'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Cheers to you David! This whole thread has been a joy to read and re-read.
    Such enlightenment, you must be very proud.
  created: '2009-04-30 18:14:00'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'Another interesting discussion killed via cryptic sarcasm. '
  created: '2009-04-30 21:04:36'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Another interesting discussion killed via cryptic sarcasm.\r\nNot Exactly.
    I'm very busy.\r\n\r\nBesides, there is a building code here in the Commonwealth
    of Massachusetts that goes like this: when one builds a room for living space,
    there must be a light switch near the door and a light fixture in the room, so
    people don't have to walk into a dark room. \r\n\r\nThere is however, no code,
    no law and no bylaw that says that there has to be a light bulb in that fixture.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-05-03 13:27:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-05-03 16:04:30'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: '...'
  created: '2009-05-04 05:06:01'
date: '2009-04-21 18:13:53'
node_type: forum
title: David Berlow on A List Apart on Webfonts

---
