---
author:
  name: -Rudy-
  picture: 117233
body: 'Copyright registration? Registration as a Trademark? There are several ways
  to protect your font from infringement. I know a few, but I was wondering if there
  were more methods of protection that I don''t know of. So now my question: in what
  ways do you protect your font?'
comments:
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Other than hiring the Sopranos to \"collect\" on infringement, I don't know
    what you can do beyond getting a good EULA written. Enforcement is tough unless
    you \"got people\".\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-04-26 18:38:06'
- author:
    name: -Rudy-
    picture: 117233
  body: "The Sopranos, that would be a good idea ;) But I'm looking for a more friendlier
    approach, something new like the guy that came up with the \"poor man's copyright\".\r\nA
    well written EULA is a good start. But I'm looking for a method by which you can
    show that you were the first one that made the font.\r\n\r\nRudy"
  created: '2009-04-26 21:44:35'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Are you looking for methods specific to the USA, to the EU, or to the Netherlands?
  created: '2009-04-26 21:56:48'
- author:
    name: -Rudy-
    picture: 117233
  body: "USA, cause the methods in the EU and the Netherlands are pretty much the
    same as in the USA (except for copyright).\r\n\r\nI'm curious in what people do
    to protect their typeface when they finish (or maybe before they finish) it and
    want to make it public. I maybe already know all the methods, I was just wondering
    if there were any more good ideas out there that I didn't heard of ;)\r\n\r\nRudy"
  created: '2009-04-26 22:18:07'
- author:
    name: rob keller
    picture: 109886
  body: "I think there is some legal backing behind \"publicized\" documents, as in
    published material available to the public \u2013 but I don't know how one would
    make claims on this. Also, there were comments floating around the Linotype offices
    (applicable to German law, if any) that the design needed to be registered (you
    can copyright designs in Germany, not in the US) no more than 6 months after the
    first public showing... whatever that means.\r\n\r\nAll the big font guys care
    much much more about the font's name trademarks than the designs themselves. It
    is really really difficult to protect and enforce a design, but the names are
    straightforward.\r\n\r\nI have a quite safe method of protecting fonts, and have
    never had a stolen one to date... My policy is to simply to never finish or release
    anything. I will need to rethink my strategy soon though...\r\n\r\nGood luck.\r\n\r\nr.k"
  created: '2009-04-26 22:18:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...My policy is to simply to never finish or release anything. I will need
    to rethink my strategy soon though...\"\r\n\r\nRob,\r\n\r\nI am quite familiar
    with that policy and suffer financially because of it :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-04-26 22:22:08'
- author:
    name: rob keller
    picture: 109886
  body: same here Chris
  created: '2009-04-26 22:25:20'
- author:
    name: -Rudy-
    picture: 117233
  body: "You can copyright everything in the USA, except Typefaces, who had that smart
    idea? I guess he couldn't read, so it wasn't that important to him :P\r\nAnyways,
    that policy of yours Rob, won't last that long with me anymore I'm afraid, we
    have to come up with something new ;)\r\n\r\nRudy"
  created: '2009-04-26 22:44:12'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Chris, I release everything, and still suffer financially :o|
  created: '2009-04-27 01:08:49'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I believe even typeface software code can be copyright in the US, but not
    the design, as that is not a \"verbal expression\". One can register the font
    design as a design patent, but it is a bit complicated regarding what to submit.\r\n\r\nWith
    the advent of PostScript, TrueType, OpenType etc., the restrictions in the USA
    regarding the copyright of fonts is no longer denied, as when font bitmap software
    was considered \"mere digital data\".\r\n\r\nPerhaps, protect refers to physical
    protection or copy protection, which is another topic. At this time, such a thing
    is possible on Windows (perhaps, also on Mac), but no one does this."
  created: '2009-04-27 01:52:24'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Basically, there are three things you can do:\r\n\r\n1) Register the name
    as a trademark.\r\n\r\n2) Copyright the font software (the digital code).\r\n\r\n3)
    Possibly get a design patent on the design. Not actually that complicated.\r\n\r\nThe
    most important thing to do is actually to make sure you're not infringing somebody
    else's trademarked name. And, to avoid confusion, not overlapping too much even
    with a non-trademarked name. You don't want to have to change the name after you
    start shipping it....\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-04-27 04:05:02'
- author:
    name: -Rudy-
    picture: 117233
  body: "Thanks Thomas.\r\n\r\nI have a few questions about 2)\r\nHow does one copyright
    the font software? Copy the code and paste it in the registration of the Copyright
    Office? How do you subtract the code from the font?\r\n\r\nIs it worth the time
    to copyright the code if it doesn't protect the design (the most important part
    of a font)?\r\n\r\nRudy"
  created: '2009-04-27 09:24:18'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Usual disclaimer about me not being a lawyer, and how you should consult
    one for legal advice.\r\n\r\n<cite>How does one copyright the font software? Copy
    the code and paste it in the registration of the Copyright Office? How do you
    subtract the code from the font?</cite>\r\n\r\nFirst, you have copyright simply
    by virtue of authoring it. However, in the USA *registering* your copyright allows
    you the possibility of collecting triple the actual damages, as well as fixed
    awards for each infringement. Without that, you're limited to \"actual damages.\"\r\n\r\nTo
    register the copyright, you'd need a meaningful text representation of the font
    code. For a Type 1 font, I'd go with a decrypted version of an ASCII Type 1 font
    (also called a \".pfa\" or Unix Type 1 font). For TTF or OTF you could dump it
    with TTX or something like that.\r\n\r\n<cite>Is it worth the time to copyright
    the code if it doesn\u2019t protect the design (the most important part of a font)?</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    code isn't the most important thing, but it's the most commonly and most easily
    pirated. My personal opinion is that as an independent type designer I'll certainly
    register the copyrights for my designs. It's really cheap (like $35 using the
    online registration).\r\n\r\nDesign patent is trickier because although it's clearly
    valuable (in the US, anyway), it's extremely expensive. Even with the discount
    for being a \"small entity\" it looks like it's something like $660 up front and
    another $3800 or so divided into installments at 3.5, 7.5 and 11.5 years (though
    mostly rear-end loaded, so you could let it lapse if the font wasn't doing well).
    That's per font, so if your type family consists of, say, a whole series of fonts...
    dang, that could really chew up a big chunk (or all) of your profits. I don't
    know that it makes sense for most type designers and foundries.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-04-27 17:54:49'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Regarding copyright registration at the US Copyright Office (you can do it
    online, as Thomas said), I did a registration for a large collection of fonts
    at a single price (like for one font), as an author registers copyright for a
    collection of short stories in a book.\r\n\r\nI made a sale to a customer (it
    could be just a cousin) in another state and mailed him or her my font product.
    That way it was dated by the post office. This is called \"interstate commerce\",
    and activates the copyright.\r\n\r\nThomas said that the mere act of authoring
    or creating it is \"unregistered\" copyright. I believe that \"interstate commerce\"
    is also necessary, but I may be wrong. As Thomas warned, I'm not an attorney either.\r\n\r\nLinotype
    I know applies for a design patent for many of their fonts, but most type foundries
    don't bother."
  created: '2009-04-27 22:30:11'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "As I understand it, interstate commerce is not relevant here.\r\n\r\n\"Your
    work is under copyright protection the moment it is created and fixed in a tangible
    form that it is perceptible either directly or with the aid of a machine or device.\"\r\n-
    US Copyright Office\r\nhttp://www.copyright.gov/help/faq/faq-general.html#mywork\r\n\r\nNow,
    ability to prove when you created something might be helpful in terms of establishing
    the priority of your claim to authorship, in the event of a conflict. AFAIK, that's
    why people sometimes mail *to themselves* a copy of a copyrighted work, so they
    have a sealed envelope with a postmark on it.\r\n\r\nI didn't know that Linotype
    had started applying for design patents; that would be relatively new on their
    part, I think. Last I knew, Adobe was the only type foundry that routinely did
    so.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-04-27 22:52:03'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "More from the US Copyright Office:\r\n\r\n<cite><strong>Why should I register
    my work if copyright protection is automatic?</strong></cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>Registration
    is recommended for a number of reasons. Many choose to register their works because
    they wish to have the facts of their copyright on the public record and have a
    certificate of registration. Registered works may be eligible for statutory damages
    and attorney's fees in successful litigation. Finally, if registration occurs
    within 5 years of publication, it is considered prima facie evidence in a court
    of law. See Circular 1, Copyright Basics, section \u201CCopyright Registration\u201D
    and Circular 38b, Highlights of Copyright Amendments Contained in the Uruguay
    Round Agreements Act (URAA), on non-U.S. works. http://www.copyright.gov/circs/circ1.html#cr
    \ http://www.copyright.gov/circs/circ38b.pdf</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite><strong>I\u2019ve
    heard about a \u201Cpoor man\u2019s copyright.\u201D What is it?</strong></cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>The
    practice of sending a copy of your own work to yourself is sometimes called a
    \u201Cpoor man\u2019s copyright.\u201D There is no provision in the copyright
    law regarding any such type of protection, and it is not a substitute for registration.</cite>\r\n\r\n(I'm
    understanding that to mean that it creates no extra protections under the law;
    of course you already had copyright at the time of authoring.)"
  created: '2009-04-27 22:58:13'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "In the very early nineties, I was invited to Linotype in Haupage, Long Island,
    New York to meet with a designer for Linotype Germany. It was a fascinating meeting,
    and Linotype USA host showed interesting enlargements of Times-Roman at different
    sizes from the days of hot type, where Times-Roman 8, 9, 10, and 12 had different
    widths, particularly for the m and w.\r\n\r\nAfterwards, I was given a tour of
    the type department production studio, where artists were working on very large
    architectural drawings of each letter belonging to many fonts. It was explained
    that these drawings were for submission to the US Patent Office.\r\n\r\nThe drawings
    were very detailed with lots of measurements besides basic letter designs. This
    is why I described it as complicated. Today, Fontographer can instantly print
    each character in this manner with a few keystrokes.\r\n\r\nI don't recall why
    interstate commerse was an issue back in 1989. Perhaps, it was unnecessary, as
    Thomas states.\r\n\r\nBtw, what were the names of the three print/type professors
    at RIT? One of them was really into promoting a new encoding system, before Unicode
    was accepted by all. Another knew well the history and use of paper. He claimed
    that serifs were invented to control ink spread. I think that Frederik Goudy would
    argue!"
  created: '2009-04-28 02:52:06'
- author:
    name: -Rudy-
    picture: 117233
  body: "<cite> <strong>To register the copyright, you\u2019d need a meaningful text
    representation of the font code. For a Type 1 font, I\u2019d go with a decrypted
    version of an ASCII Type 1 font (also called a \u201C.pfa\u201D or Unix Type 1
    font). For TTF or OTF you could dump it with TTX or something like that.</strong>
    </cite>\r\n\r\nI managed to generate a .pfa file, but I realy have no idea how
    to decrypt it and make it representable for copyright registration. I also don't
    know how to make a TTX file, I'm a designer you know not a programmer ;-)\r\n\r\nRudy"
  created: '2009-04-28 09:26:45'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"It was explained that these [1970's (?) Linotype] drawings were for submission
    to the US Patent Office.\"\r\nWell, lol, that's one way of stopping visitors from
    copying right off the drawing board. \r\nAnd... font patents are not 'tricky'
    as a result of cost but rather from the PO's definition of them for fonts. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-04-28 12:36:53'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Interstate commerce is usually a requisite for registering a trademark, not
    a copyright.\r\n\r\nThe \"complicated\" drawings made by the Linotype drawing
    offices were created because they were a prerequisite for making the brass matrices
    -- this is back when font manufacture was a precise engineering and machining
    process requiring extreme accuracy and fine tolerances. They may or may not have
    been subsequently submitted to the US Patent Office, but that was not their primary
    raison d'\xEAtre."
  created: '2009-04-28 12:47:07'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"To register the copyright, you\u2019d need a meaningful text representation
    of the font code\"</cite>\r\n\r\nI apologize if this is a stupid question, but
    would something like UFO qualify? \r\nOr am I misunderstanding what \"font code\"
    is?"
  created: '2009-04-28 14:13:34'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>I also don\u2019t know how to make a TTX file, I\u2019m a designer you
    know not a programmer ;-)</em>\r\n\r\nI use the Mac version of TTX and it's dead
    simple to make a .ttx file. I imagine the Windows version is similar. No programming
    needed.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.letterror.com/code/ttx/\r\n\r\nYou just drag a .otf
    or .ttf font onto the TTX app icon and in a matter of seconds you have a .ttx
    version of the font. That's it. \r\n\r\n(You can also do a lot more than make
    .ttx files with TTX, especially if you use it from the command line.)"
  created: '2009-04-28 14:25:23'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "What are brass matrices? It was after the days of metal type.\r\n\r\nI recall
    that when I created typeface designs in Thai for Smith-Corona to be used for typewriters
    in Thailand, I had to prepare similar drawings, so Smith-Corona could cut them
    into metal.\r\n\r\nIf I recall correctly, the interstate commerce was in deed
    for trademark of the company logo. But it was for before actual registration.
    For the application.\r\n\r\nIn older versions of Fontographer, one could generate
    a text file of the font in type 3 format. It may still be possible in newer versions,
    but I am not sure. You simply click on ASCII in the print menu. Perhaps, FontLab
    has a similar option, too."
  created: '2009-04-28 14:28:24'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I don't think UFO would work since it's actually a collection of XML files
    (one file for each glyph, etc.), not a single file. It looks like a single file
    (on the Mac at least) but it's not.
  created: '2009-04-28 14:30:18'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"[UFO] looks like a single file (on the Mac at least) but it\u2019s
    not\"</cite>\r\n\r\nHa. Thanks for the clarification!"
  created: '2009-04-28 16:50:34'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > What are brass matrices? It was after the days of metal type.</cite>\r\n\r\nBrass
    matrices were Mergenthaler Linotype Co.'s stock in trade.  \r\n\r\nI realize that
    the date you said you visited was past the prime of metal and into the decline
    of the U.S. Linotype company. But the practices and standards for those drawings
    were established ca. 1920s under the direction C.H. Griffith for manufacture of
    metal type. And I believe they changed little for producing phototype and right
    on up until they were being marked up with plotting data for Ikarus digization."
  created: '2009-04-28 17:58:44'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "<cite>Btw, what were the names of the three print/type professors at RIT?
    One of them was really into promoting a new encoding system, before Unicode was
    accepted by all. Another knew well the history and use of paper. He claimed that
    serifs were invented to control ink spread. I think that Frederik Goudy would
    argue!</cite>\r\n\r\nRIT has had a lot of print/type professors over the years.
    But some of the more prominent from way back have been Alexander Lawson (author
    of Anatomy of a Typeface), Frank Romano (print industry analyst), and Archie Provan
    (Archie was active in the AFII standard for glyph cataloging). Archie was my thesis
    advisor.\r\n\r\nMore recently, Chuck Bigelow (co-designer of the Lucida meta-series
    of typefaces) has been teaching at RIT.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT\r\n\r\n(edited
    to correct a bit about Frank Romano)"
  created: '2009-04-28 18:50:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I know Frank Romano! Years ago he asked me to do a presentation at a Quark
    XPress conference in NYC.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-04-28 18:55:45'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: Is Archie's AFII used anymore?
  created: '2009-04-28 21:39:16'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "<cite>right on up until they were being marked up with plotting data for
    Ikarus digization.</cite>\r\n\r\nI recall that they said that they used Ikarus
    and not Fontographer. When I visited Adobe (Systems) earlier in Palo Alto (not
    San Jose), they also said that they rejected Fontographer as their type tool.
    Nearby Apple (Cupertino) said that they used their own tools, and smiled (like
    they had the upper hand).\r\n\r\nBtw, TrueType was version 1 then, but they had
    version 2 already ready to ship, and version 3 was in the works. It was brilliant!
    Basically, it allowed a group of type elements to be defined, and then used them
    as references to make up letters. It totally redefined type and fonts. Version
    3 was never released. Right?"
  created: '2009-04-28 21:42:16'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "It was Archie Proven, a really nice person with a great sense of humor -
    he was the type/print professor.\r\n\r\nThe paper prof. was in another building,
    I think for imaging. RIT then worked closely with the CIA. He showed me a poster/map
    of Israel, with hot spots/red dots indicating nuclear weapons scattered all over
    Israel. I was amazed. He bragged that it was produced from RIT imaging technology
    that photographed two images of the landscape from 45 degree angles, and by doing
    so it could derive objects beneath the surface. \r\n\r\nHe commented that they
    were using the very same technology to \"dig\" beneath the dirt covering the Dead
    Sea Scrolls. What was the name of that guy?\r\n\r\nI brought an early 19th century
    volume of Talmud to show him. He handled it very carefully, like a rare Egyptian
    vase. He explained that it was printed on the finest paper from Czarist Russia
    in those days. He pointed out that it didn't have the typical waterprint from
    Czarist government, indicating that it was \"bootleg\". Taxes were never paid
    by the paper manufacturers to the government for it, like most paper. This was
    because they gave the paper, and didn't sell it (paper is the largest expense
    in printing; afterwards is typesetting and the actual printing - the Talmud publisher
    went bankrupt before they completed typesetting the Talmud, and needed the paper
    to be donated, worth over a million dollars). Interestingly, I am a descendant
    of those paper manufacturers.\r\n\r\nFrank Romano wasn't there.\r\n\r\nRIT also
    had a great type library, and a very fine librarian from Brooklyn. Do you know
    his name?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-28 22:04:17'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "<cite>Is Archie\u2019s AFII used anymore?</cite>\r\n\r\nNot really. The only
    place I still see it is in the glyph naming Adobe first used for Cyrillic, which
    they may finally be moving away from, last I recall (in favor of uniXXXX names).\r\n\r\n@goHebrew:\r\n\r\nLots
    of folks involved in imaging science at RIT, but the one most associated with
    the Dead Sea scrolls would probably be Robert Johnston.\r\n\r\nThe Melbert B Cary
    Jr Graphic Arts Collection, a.k.a. \"the Cary library,\" at RIT is is a world-class
    library devoted to the history of books and typography. Some pretty amazing stuff
    there. David Pankow has been the head of the Cary library since 1979. Not sure
    who it was before him, offhand. I worked with David for 5-10 hours a week as a
    grad assistant while I was at RIT, thanks to the Lawson fellowship.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-04-29 02:26:18'
- author:
    name: -Rudy-
    picture: 117233
  body: "<cite> <strong> I use the Mac version of TTX and it\u2019s dead simple to
    make a .ttx file. I imagine the Windows version is similar. No programming needed.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.letterror.com/code/ttx/
    </cite> </strong>\r\n\r\n\r\nThanks Mark. You can just paste the code into the
    copyright registration or do you need to upload the .ttx file or paste the code
    in a .txt file and upload that?\r\n\r\nRudy"
  created: '2009-04-29 10:12:49'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "Mark: <em>I don\u2019t think UFO would work since it\u2019s actually a collection
    of XML files</em>\r\n\r\nI'm not sure this would rule out UFO, because all but
    the most simple computer programs consist of more than one source code file. But
    perhaps it might be a problem that a UFO may not be a sufficient representation
    of a font, e.g. you can't store TT instructions in a standardized way inside a
    UFO.\r\n\r\nTTX would be a better choice, also because it's easier to compile
    a working font from a TTX file than from a UFO."
  created: '2009-04-29 12:29:26'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "IMO, UFOs qualify as \"font software\" in the USA because it is the digital
    representation of the typeface that the \"Adobe v SSI\" case established as subject
    to copyright. The judge said something like 'there is some creativity in placing
    bezier points when tracing a design from a paper model and so the points are subject
    to copyright' - if these outlines are SVG or UFO data, or a LOGO or python or
    C program, makes no difference.\r\n\r\n\r\nThe law is about what people do, not
    about the fine details of how they do it, basically. \r\n\r\nI am not a lawyer
    :)"
  created: '2009-04-30 14:05:57'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>You can just paste the code into the copyright registration or do you
    need to upload the .ttx file or paste the code in a .txt file and upload that?</em>\r\n\r\nI
    don't know. My lawyer has always done it for me.\r\n\r\nabattis:\r\n\r\nYou're
    probably right about the legal standing of UFO. I meant that for practical purposes
    I don't think it wouldn't be as simple to deal with as TTX."
  created: '2009-04-30 16:15:09'
date: '2009-04-26 13:30:57'
title: How do you protect your font?

---
