---
author:
  name: cerulean
  picture: 129904
body: Trebuchet is a very nice face. It's a well-designed neutral sans with a touch
  of U.S. Highway for extra clarity. Its personality gives blogs that professional
  but still personal human voice. Can we hear it for Trebuchet? Humor me.
comments:
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: It's overlooked and maybe (for an available default font) underused, but I
    kinda think that's its niche.
  created: '2009-04-27 13:54:15'
- author:
    name: microspective
    picture: 111866
  body: I used to dig it, but now I find it a little on the ugly cousin side. The
    super short as/descenders make me wilt like an unloved macaroni flower. I used
    to find the <em>g</em> nice and original, but it calls attention to itself now.
    I sincerely hope I have not changed your outlook; these are strictly my own thoughts.
    ; )
  created: '2009-04-27 14:35:17'
- author:
    name: microspective
    picture: 111866
  body: <em>@Eliason</em> Definitely niche. Well put.
  created: '2009-04-27 14:36:18'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "In the fast sea of available typefaces, yea, it's definitely an ugly cousin.\r\n\r\nBut
    in the limited invite list for web fonts? It holds its own quite well and is definitely
    a handy option."
  created: '2009-04-27 15:45:17'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "As aluminum says, I think Trebuchet is good for web, because of the limited
    list available for that (at this moment, maybe not anymore in the very near future).
    I like the fact that it has a real italic, not just an oblique.\r\n\r\nAnd don\u2019t
    forget: Trebuchet is a Vincent Connare design! There is life after Comic Sans\u2026"
  created: '2009-04-27 16:03:18'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "> Trebuchet is a Vincent Connare design!\r\n\r\nWhat credence does this lend?"
  created: '2009-04-27 17:46:54'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "I like it.\r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2009-04-27 23:32:02'
- author:
    name: "H\xF6fe"
    picture: 114757
  body: "<cite>Trebuchet is a very nice face.</cite>\r\nFail.\r\n\r\n<cite>It\u2019s
    overlooked</cite>\r\nFail.\r\n\r\n<cite>I like it.</cite>\r\nFail.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-27 23:57:14'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\r\n>Personal Bio\r\n>A very Good Designer.\r\n\r\nWell that doesn't make
    up for being an ******* does it? ;-)"
  created: '2009-04-28 02:55:48'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Good home page, though :|
  created: '2009-04-28 06:49:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "I hate it. Is it actually supposed to be so lumpy and badly drawn or not?
    It's hard to tell.\r\n\r\nNick Cooke"
  created: '2009-04-28 12:10:13'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: Oh well. My sentiment was sincere, but mostly my hope was to see Vince take
    some genuine pride in a job well done, maybe finding that it feels better than
    lapping up ironic public attention for a train wreck. I'm sure he'll take an interest
    now that the thread is mostly negative.
  created: '2009-04-28 13:43:10'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: i'm sure he has better things to do. really.
  created: '2009-04-28 14:22:13'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Good home page, though :|\r\n\r\nYes, lovely iuse of Arial :-)"
  created: '2009-04-28 14:53:35'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "I mean it: for me, Trebuchet is a good design. Human touch but still serious
    and convenient for screen.\r\n\r\nAnother thing I like about Trebuchet: lowercase
    l different from Uppercase I (not very common in sans designs).\r\n\r\nI only
    mentioned Comic Sans because many of us hate it so much, but Trebuchet is a very
    different stuff. Not every popular font is a bad font, right?"
  created: '2009-04-28 16:28:12'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "You guys are missing one valuable point about Trebuchet: It's the narrowest
    useable sans-serif for the web. Narrower than Tahoma, but not as nice. If space
    conservation is your thing, and you must use a sans\u2026"
  created: '2009-04-28 16:49:56'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Typophile forums are now a confessional? Sometimes I like to eat the occasional
    hot dog.\r\n\r\nThanks Dan for bringing it back to utility.\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-28 17:46:59'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Sometimes they are confessional without it being intended as such... ;-) I
    am included in that of course.
  created: '2009-04-28 19:13:44'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: amen
  created: '2009-04-28 19:41:45'
- author:
    name: hbeier
    picture: 116634
  body: I think Trebuchet works really well on TV. It's the typeface I use when I
    need to set subtitles.
  created: '2009-04-28 20:38:37'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'It''s certainly interesting to look at the bi-level hinted fonts and how
    well they hold up under modern rendering technologies. '
  created: '2009-04-28 21:04:11'
- author:
    name: "H\xF6fe"
    picture: 114757
  body: "<cite> Good home page, though :| </cite>\r\n\r\n<cite> Yes, lovely iuse of
    Arial :-) </cite>\r\n\r\nMaybe I should have used Trebuchet? Just kidding, that
    would be really Amateur.\r\n\r\n<cite>I think Trebuchet works really well on TV.
    It\u2019s the typeface I use when I need to set subtitles.</cite>\r\n\r\nAHAHAHAHAHAHA.
    There you go.\r\n\r\nTrebuchet, the thinking mans comic sans."
  created: '2009-04-28 22:08:03'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Thanks for removing all doubt.
  created: '2009-04-28 22:19:14'
- author:
    name: Edward Long
    picture: 117090
  body: I was surprised to find that a rather handsome all-caps headline was set in
    Trebuchet the other day. Not sure I'd use the lowercase for anything other than
    a blog or website but the caps work quite nicely for a titling font.
  created: '2009-04-28 22:49:09'
- author:
    name: hbeier
    picture: 116634
  body: "<cite>AHAHAHAHAHAHA. There you go.</cite>\r\n\r\nI don't get it, H\xF6fe."
  created: '2009-04-28 23:05:35'
- author:
    name: ilovecolors
    picture: 115038
  body: "Trebuchet has a lot of good points: an interesting lowercase l, a beautiful
    g, a good bunch of true italics, it saves space (maybe trees too) without being
    too compressed, etc.\r\nIt's not the best, but for web design is a good choice."
  created: '2009-04-28 23:35:44'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: ">Trebuchet, the thinking mans comic sans.\r\n\r\nOk, I am curious about what
    do you use."
  created: '2009-04-29 00:14:51'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Ok, I am curious about what do you use.\r\n\r\nLike all \"very Good Designers\",
    lovely types like this one... \r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/53499\r\n\r\n...unless
    of course the ID was for a \"friend\" :-P"
  created: '2009-04-29 02:25:56'
- author:
    name: jabez
    picture: 112785
  body: "It was one of my favourite 'stock fonts' in my pre-typophile days.\r\n\r\nI
    think it was the first time I'd seen the 'et' ampersand and I recall that really
    intrigued me."
  created: '2009-04-29 04:37:35'
- author:
    name: "H\xF6fe"
    picture: 114757
  body: "<cite>\r\nLike all \u201Cvery Good Designers\u201D, lovely types like this
    one...\r\n </cite>\r\n\r\nYou like Trebuchet and your mocking me? hahaha fail.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    I just worked out the thread, cerulean  is clearly taking the p*ss. He actually
    had me going. Good one."
  created: '2009-04-29 04:50:55'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: ">You like Trebuchet and your mocking me? hahaha fail.\r\n\r\nI can see you
    dislike Trebuchet, but you are not answering, H\xF6fe\u2026 Please, I really want
    to know. What fonts do you like and use for screen jobs?"
  created: '2009-04-29 05:43:21'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I like Trebuchet, for all the reasons stated above and more. \r\n\r\nSure,
    the umlauts are a bit wide, but I rarely set German text so that isn't a great
    concern to me."
  created: '2009-04-29 09:00:52'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "<em>Anyway, I just worked out the thread, cerulean is clearly taking the
    p*ss.</em>\r\n\r\nI doubt it. And I, personally, would prefer not knowing what
    gets you going, in case it's something quite distasteful."
  created: '2009-04-29 10:47:32'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/newsnight_4544.jpg]'
  created: '2009-04-29 14:34:53'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "i remember the first time i took trebuchet seriously was when i had to update
    some really small ingredient labels for boutique chocolate at my old work, i thouhgt
    'gee that tiny 5-point type looks good, then i discovered it was trebuchet, which
    means it's one i think of as good for really small printed stuff if you need a
    system font for the job.\r\n\r\nanywho..."
  created: '2009-04-29 16:04:19'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "<cite>I don't hate Trebuchet, like I don't hate cigarettes.\r\nBut I've never
    used either one seriously.</cite>\r\n\r\n--Me (misquoting Nick Shinn)"
  created: '2009-04-29 16:46:27'
- author:
    name: Jasonrobb
    picture: 112635
  body: "As a web designer, I look at Trebuchet as the Windows fall-back font for
    Lucida Grande.\r\n\r\nIt's a more suitable replacement for headlines than Verdana
    or Arial. And that's the way it goes on the web.\r\n\r\nDitto: Overlooked. Underused.
    Niche."
  created: '2009-04-29 22:38:21'
- author:
    name: Eli
    picture: 112186
  body: I really dislike Trebuchet,  I rather prefer Tahoma or Verdana, I don't care
    about true italics as much as good letterforms.
  created: '2009-04-29 22:49:10'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">As a web designer, I look at Trebuchet as the Windows fall-back font for
    Lucida Grande.\r\n\r\nAs our 12 year old friend would say - \"fail!\" :-)\r\n\r\nI
    think Windows has included Lucida Sans Unicode for longer than Apple shipped Lucida
    Grande? Yet another case of Microsoft copying Apple in advance. "
  created: '2009-04-29 23:08:04'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: ">>the Windows fall-back font for Lucida Grande\r\nSii beat me to the punch,
    but Lucida Sans/Grande is practically the only typeface that has a native system
    variant on every Operating system. For Linux, Luxi, although not Lucida, is certainly
    a very closely related cousin and Lucida Sans also ships standard with Java.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-30 02:01:07'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: Because of this thread, I'm actually going to design a webpage that exclusively
    uses Trebuchet. How about them Apples, eh?
  created: '2009-04-30 02:02:04'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Yet another case of Microsoft copying Apple in advance.\"\r\nA common misconception
    among busily entrenching kleptocrats. :-p\r\n\r\n\"...Lucida Sans/Grande is practically
    the only typeface that has a native system variant on every Operating system...\"\r\nNot
    surprising, any operating system with native blurry-bot rendering needs a simplified
    san serif (or ten), so their blurry-bot rendering will not show up, (at the top
    of your windows at least).\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-04-30 13:09:52'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "Do you remember the fonts we had to hint for the first tests for Apple to
    bid for the next font format on Macintoshes? \r\n\r\nLucida Bright!\r\n\r\nI'd
    type this in Chalkboard if I could."
  created: '2009-04-30 14:25:44'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: How come Lucida Grande looks fantastic on the mac, and Lucida Sans looks average
    on the PC? is it just a screen-rendering thing or are the designs really that
    different?
  created: '2009-04-30 15:51:19'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: I think David explained that (in his own special way)
  created: '2009-04-30 17:29:08'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I've never liked the g of Trebuchet. Ever. But I'm quite particular about
    the g.
  created: '2009-04-30 22:12:56'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "I still quite object to the fact that the endash and hyphen look exactly
    the same, a clear error.\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-05-01 05:01:53'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: 'I MADE THE FIRST EVER BITMAPS OF TAHOMA FOR THE WINDOWS 95 SYSTEM ENGINEERS
    since Mr Carter delivered Mac Font-tastic Plus negative sidebearing bitmaps. I
    had to remake them and change some things and compile them into 2.fnt files so
    they could be usable...so there.... start whinging about Tahoma now '
  created: '2009-05-01 12:20:59'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Damn you Vince for that Tahoma! I see it everywhere! Totally inappropriately,
    like on websites that need \"Verdana\" but are too cheap to purchase the extra
    pixel widths. How brash and irresponsible!\r\n\r\n:)"
  created: '2009-05-01 15:44:45'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: '@sii - to be honest, i was confused by his post...'
  created: '2009-05-01 15:59:16'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "@sii - to be honest, i was confused by his post...\r\n\r\nConfused? Well,
    there is an inverse relationship between the font(s) we think of as highly readable
    in high resolution text, and the font(s) we are force-fed because they are easy
    to render at low resolutions. \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/frosty2_4480.jpg]\r\nSee
    here? Serif font, traditional sans, simplified sans and seriously simplified sans.
    The simplified sans, of which we speak, developed in reaction to the middling
    resolutions of early laser printers. Then, when these fonts worked well enough
    with 1/2 hinted anti-aliasing for screens, well, there was 'no reason' to consider
    any more broad design needs from technology. X hints? who needs em, if OSs can
    get by with one such font. . .  But now, users want hundreds of styles to work
    at all sizes and resolutions, everywhere. \r\n\r\nWhat to do? Sheep love Trebuchet,
    Verdana and Lucida anything \u2014 wolves roam.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-05-01 20:53:52'
- author:
    name: nycionx
  body: Omg I hate this font with a passion!! That lowercase 'a' always pisses me
    off and the splayed edges. The 'g' too. Just so awful and annoying and like Arial
    I gotta see it everywhere *shoot me*
  created: '2013-06-08 04:40:21'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "@ holf : <blockquote>\"fail\"</blockquote>\r\nholy shyte. brilliant. such
    insight is waisted here. \r\n\r\n@ nycionx: breathe slowly into a paper bag. you'll
    feel better. \r\n"
  created: '2013-06-09 01:54:29'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: I love resurrecting old threads just to talk trash! Now that webfonts exist,
    may those who hate never worry about Trebuchet again. It's not the best, but it's
    not the worst, and may it rest peacefully amongst the OG Core Fonts.
  created: '2013-06-10 18:56:06'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "Big Brother in Holland's first logo was in Trebuchet then they took out the
    words and turned to shite.\r\nNewsnight had it as a logo for years now it is something
    so boring no one knows what it is. \r\nApple's iCards were in Comic Sans then
    they went and made Chalkboard after they copied the trash can and multitasking
    from Xerox and Microsoft and re-invented System 7 as iOS 7 but no Newton support
    or TrueType GX. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-11 16:10:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Actually Apple swiped the whole GUI idea from Xerox PARC; but Macs did not
    have true pre-emptive multitasking until System8. For a long while the only personal
    computer with true multitasking was the Amiga.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Albert Jan Pool
      picture: 111860
    body: "<blockquote>Actually Apple swiped the whole GUI idea from Xerox PARC</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThat
      may be true, but it shows that having a nice idea does not count as much in
      the end as turning it into a product that is accepted and appreciated by a large
      audience. And that is only the start. Looking back, we may say that Apple almost
      did not survive the starting period because Lisa was a flop and that Amiga did
      not survive in the longer run.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>For a long while the only
      personal computer with true multitasking was the Amiga.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nHmm
      \u2026 Amiga \u2026 my former colleague Jelle Bosma used to have one. He was
      even able to program an editor with which he could read in, on-screen edit and
      export IK-Format on that machine. That way he did a part of the corrections
      on Forlane, the predecessor of Cambria, while working at Scangraphic. Where
      did Amiga got lost again? Not being able to switch to the PowerPC or Intel platform
      in time? Windows 3.1? Others outbeating them on the video-editor software market?"
    created: '2013-06-12 09:11:41'
  created: '2013-06-12 03:23:21'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "As I recall, the Black Ghost &ndash; the Sinclair QL &ndash; also had pre-emptive
    multitasking in its OS.\r\n\r\nRe the Amiga, I think Commodore got too used to
    it being a nice little earner for them, plus the Attack of the Faceless PC Clones."
  created: '2013-06-12 11:08:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>having a nice idea does not count as much in the end</blockquote>\r\n\r\nBut
    for some of us being honest does.\r\n\r\nAmiga died because of zero marketing
    - its eventual owners made more money killing it; because culture and money aren't
    the same thing. On every technical front it was superior to anything out there,
    years in advance. I ran Fontographer via Mac emulation, and it ran faster than
    on a Mac; I also had a Windows emulator (which however required a card). My 3000
    is still in the garage. :-)  The 500 I had donated to a small Armenian TV show.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-12 15:04:00'
- author:
    name: Albert Jan Pool
    picture: 111860
  body: "<blockquote>having a nice idea does not count as much in the end</blockquote>\r\n\r\n<blockquote>But
    for some of us being honest does.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nOK, let\u2019s agree that
    it counts in a different way :\u2013)"
  created: '2013-06-12 16:15:49'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "All resurrected threads <STRONG>must</STRONG> include a reference to the
    Amiga <STRONG>and</STRONG> Fidel Castro's Rolex, so just setting the record straight.\r\n\r\nDid
    I ever tell you about the time I put an Amiga in a freezer... http://jdanddiet.blogspot.com/2013/05/retro-gamer-article-extras-interceptor_30.html "
  created: '2013-06-12 17:50:42'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: 'Upping the ante: AmigaOne X1000. I think I actually want one.'
  created: '2013-06-13 11:11:54'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: Great interview Si, I have friends who live in Burghfield Common and play
    for Tadley RFC and I will never think about the area in quite the same way again!
  created: '2013-06-13 11:41:16'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Burghfield Common and play for Tadley RFC\r\n\r\nBurghfiled was where the
    nukes were stored, and Aldermaston's proximity to Greenham Common air base made
    the neighborhood pretty much target #1 for the Soviets. It was good to know that
    when the bomb dropped it would be instant vaporization. "
  created: '2013-06-15 04:06:36'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: Exactly what I was told when I first visited, it filled me with a warm glow!
  created: '2013-06-15 08:45:12'
date: '2009-04-27 13:27:30'
node_type: forum
title: I really like Trebuchet

---
