---
author:
  name: Dan Gayle
  picture: 111595
body: "From the .pdf of the Modern Suite:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture1_4279.png]\r\n\r\nThus
  saith Nick Shinn.\r\n\r\n@Nick\r\nWere you meaning that as in \"Boy, those proportional
  oldstyles, they sure are old-fashioned. But they look pretty.\"\r\n\r\nor\r\n\r\n\"The
  Scotch Modern didn't originally have proportional oldstyle figures, but I figured,
  'what the hey, I like them, so why not'\"?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Scotch Modern is a close revival of a \"Modern\" (Didone) face of the 19th
    century.\r\nSuch faces never had oldstyle figures, then or until now, AFAIK.\r\nTherefore
    it is anachronistic, not to mention ironic, to include oldstyle figures in a modern
    face!\r\n\r\nHowever, Adobe made me do it. \r\nBy including \"Proportional Oldstyle\"
    and \"Tabular Oldstyle\" as non-bracketed options in the InDesign OpenType menu,
    it appears that there is an error in OpenType fonts that don't have oldstyle figures.
    (This is strange, not to mention ironic, as Adobe's own Trajan is without OSF.)\r\nTherefore,
    to avoid looking like there is a mistake in the typeface, I decided to produce
    oldstyle modern figures for Scotch Modern. Or perhaps they are modern oldstyle
    figures. Other than massaging the proportions, the only structural change from
    the lining figures is the removal of the foot serifs on 4.\r\n\r\nAt any rate,
    they work surprisingly well, and are quite interesting. In fact, Micha\xEBl Amzalag
    uses them pointedly, and copiously, in his <em>Interview</em> redesign, e.g.--\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Interview_contents_3572.jpg]"
  created: '2009-05-01 17:56:07'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Very nice.\r\n\r\n>>Such faces never had oldstyle figures, then or until
    now, AFAIK.\r\n\r\nFrutiger's Didot has them, ditto ITC Bodoni.\r\n\r\nMaybe they
    are anachronisms also?"
  created: '2009-05-01 18:16:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Right. The first modern faces, by Didot and Bodoni, had oldstyle figures.
    But the subsequent evolution, the Scotch Modern, did not.
  created: '2009-05-01 18:41:07'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: Ah. They were a skoosh earlier. Your specimens came from ca. 1830s?
  created: '2009-05-01 18:47:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "My Scotch Modern is based on an American type of the 1860s.\r\n\r\nJohn Bell
    was showing lining figures in the 1780s.\r\n\r\nI haven't made a thorough study
    of this, but from the early 19th century periodicals, books, and specimens that
    I have seen, it looks like oldstyle figures became extinct in the UK by 1830 or
    earlier, but lasted longer on the continent."
  created: '2009-05-01 19:52:38'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "ok, so to be honest, when i first saw Scotch Mondern it did nothing for me.
    yes it was nice looking, but for some reason i've never been attracted to the
    didones or bononi's and related types.\r\n\r\nbut, i'm thinking i might have to
    give this typeface a try and it's looks just wonderful!\r\n\r\ni think the thing
    about these fonts that scares me is the extreme contrast, i have serious boubts
    about my ability to use them well.\r\n\r\ni guess the only way to learn if to
    just jump in...\r\n\r\nthanks nick for these beautiful faces!\r\n\r\n:-)"
  created: '2009-05-02 14:23:29'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Simon, when did Australian printing kick up in earnest? I'm guessing that
    it must have been somewhere in the mid-1800s, right? With imported type? Depending
    on the dates, you might be able to find plenty of neat locals things printed in
    faces like this. Perhaps that might give you a hint as to how you might use fonts
    inspired by it today\u2026"
  created: '2009-05-02 17:40:28'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>i think the thing about these fonts that scares me is the extreme contrast,
    i have serious boubts about my ability to use them well.</cite>\r\n\r\nDon\u2019t
    let the rubbish from type textbooks scare you away from using high-contrast types.
    As Nick likes to point out, such types were the most popular types in use during
    the time when widespread literacy came into being, and they don\u2019t seem to
    have held readers back. And back then they were being printed at smaller sizes,
    on crap paper, and often read under lighting conditions we would consider abominable.
    There\u2019s no reason that a well-used transitional or modern face cannot be
    every bit as readable as an aldine, and the pedants who insist otherwise should
    be treated with suspicion. A few days ago I examined one of Baskerville\u2019s
    original printings of Paradise Lost, and I assure you it is more readable (long
    s usage aside) than some of the best versions being printed today!"
  created: '2009-05-02 18:34:27'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "><em>they don\u2019t seem to have held readers back. And back then they were
    being printed at smaller sizes, on crap paper, and often read under lighting conditions
    we would consider abominable</em>\r\n\r\nWell\u2026 back then, there was ink spread,
    since the pages were still being printed from metal type. Nick's fonts asde, many
    digital Didones are not optimised successfully for text. And it does not matter
    what your abilities as a type setter are\u2026 if the font isn't going to cut
    it, you aren't going to be able to pull off legible text with it. Every typeface
    has to be judged on its own merits. Styles are genres are only going to help you
    so far along when it comes to knowing what to do with a font."
  created: '2009-05-02 20:25:14'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "Thanks guys!\r\n\r\n@dan - i think you're right about the printing, but i
    haven't seen a lot of these types from that era, most stuff i've seen is from
    early 1900's.\r\n\r\n@james - thanks for encouragement!"
  created: '2009-05-04 01:37:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Since we don't live in the 19th Century anymore, I see no reason to rigorously
    abide by the traditions of that time (unless you are the kind who MUST). Go ahead
    and make oldstyle figures as part of any typeface that you feel would benefit
    from it. Until recently, sans were not accompanied by true italics but now it
    is the norm. Fire away and check your targets later--you may find you have hit
    a few bulls-eyes there :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-05-04 02:06:13'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: ok, i bit the bullet and have purchased a license for the roman and italic
    of scotch modern. now to see if i'm man enough to handle it...
  created: '2009-05-04 02:40:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"You can Handle, the truth\" :-)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/afewgoodmenjacktruth_4846.JPG]\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-04 04:15:56'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: :-) thanks chris!
  created: '2009-05-04 05:14:39'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Go ahead and make oldstyle figures as part of any typeface that you
    feel would benefit from it.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s certainly not a bad idea,
    but people should also be very careful about considering whether or not the proportions
    of a typeface lend themselves to old style figures\u2014some of them just don\u2019t."
  created: '2009-05-04 05:48:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...some of them just don\u2019t.</em>\r\n\r\nExamples please."
  created: '2009-05-04 07:26:25'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "i showed a teacher at uni my new purchase and he mentioned ITC Century which
    i had not heard of, is that a scotch modern also? sorry if i'm missing the obvious.\r\n\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/fonts/ef/itc-century/"
  created: '2009-05-04 14:03:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Century evidently has some Scotch ancestry, but it is lower contrast. \r\n\r\nI
    disagree with you, James, that high contrast is equally readable in text. I really
    think it is objectively a problem. I can't prove it, but that's what my eyes have
    told me all my life.  \r\n\r\nI do agree, though, about the old style numerals.
    Nick, in the discussion about ITC Franklin, James argued that old style numerals
    won't work well with faces with very short extenders, including ITC Franklin.
    \   "
  created: '2009-05-04 15:36:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Anything from ITC in the 80s had short decencders and acsenders. It was their
    xheight \xFCber ales era.\r\nWhat I said was, \"any typeface that you feel would
    benefit from it.\" Conversly...\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-05-04 15:46:37'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "\"xheight \xFCber alles\" \r\n\r\nLOL chris :-) that would make a great t-shirt!\r\n\r\ncheerio
    Queneau"
  created: '2009-05-04 15:59:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks, Queneau!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-05-04 16:52:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...objectively a problem...what my eyes have told me all my life.</em>\r\n\r\nYou're
    contradicting yourself.\r\n\r\nHowever, I have had the same view of high contrast
    faces, having tried various fonts in text settings from the 1970s on (for offset
    printed work), and always been disappointed with the results, in comparison with
    letterpress examples.\r\n\r\nI surmised that the genre is not ideally suited to
    offset, and also that the phototype and digital fonts available were lacking.\r\nSo
    I thought I'd have a go, hence Scotch Modern. Even if I have been successful,
    it is still a difficult genre to use for typographers, as optical size, paper
    stock and ink gain are so critical. Added to which is the prejudice which exists
    against it."
  created: '2009-05-04 19:23:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick I don't think I'm contradicting myself. My eyes say that high contrast
    is a problem. I can't prove it, but I think it's objective, in the sense that
    it's a problem for our visual apparatus to read high contrast text at small sizes.
    \r\n\r\nLetter press has a built-in minimum for thins, and so has a kind of built-in
    optical adjustment, so you may be right that they worked significantly better
    as letter press. \r\n\r\nMy prejudice against them for text arose when I was a
    student in high school and college in the early '60s, when almost all science
    books were in high contrast modern faces, on slick paper. [They had bigger character
    sets for math, I'm guessing.] \r\n\r\nThey have a lot of flavor in display, and
    yours captures that well. \r\n\r\nWith less contrast, they can work in text, though
    they are still not my favorite, though that, I admit, is subjective. "
  created: '2009-05-04 20:01:45'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Well\u2026 back then, there was ink spread, since the pages were still
    being printed from metal type.</cite>\r\n\r\nI\u2019ve got old textbooks with
    hairlines that compete with contemporary display type. If anything, we\u2019re
    better off with some of the current designs, which probably get far more testing
    and revision than was possible with metal.\r\n\r\nNick is right, though, that
    stock and ink gain are critical. But I think that these things are critical for
    most projects anyway, so with some testing, it should be possible to make a modern
    face work\u2014or find out that it won\u2019t, before going to press."
  created: '2009-05-04 20:12:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "> probably get far more testing and revision than was possible with metal.\r\n\r\nI
    kind of doubt that. I don't know how foundries worked in the 19th century, but
    in the 20th you had huge drawing offices, proofing in print, and masters like
    Chauncy Griffith vetting everything. "
  created: '2009-05-04 20:27:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I don\u2019t think I\u2019m contradicting myself.</em>\r\n\r\nBill, you
    offered your own experience, which is by definition subjective, as an argument
    against the idea that high contrast types are in general \"equally readable\".
    \r\n\r\nThe problem with high contrast types is not the contrast per se, but rather
    it's the too slight image of fine details, in particular serifs, in offset printing.
    So one might say that the difficulty in offset is actually the <strong>low</strong>
    contrast between paper and fine details. This is not an issue in letterpress,
    because even the slightest of serifs are substantial enough: on uncoated stock
    there is sufficient press gain, and on coated stock there is the bite of type
    into the paper, creating a crisp dimensional image.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-04 22:20:52'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: I always thought that one of the major issues with modern style type was the
    stress axis. I know it's the first thing I notice when I look at a page set in
    Bodoni, for instance. The high contrast certainly highlights that axis as well.
  created: '2009-05-04 22:45:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The stress axis bothers you less if you see it more.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-05-05 01:15:19'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "On axis, I do think that higher contrast is less of a problem in old style
    type, such as Times New Roman, where the thins are more on the diagonal. \r\n\r\nOn
    objectivity, I am not basing myself only on my eyes, but also history. The high
    contrast types of the 19th century went into eclipse. I believe that almost all
    popular text faces now have lower contrast than things like Bodoni, Didot, and
    the 19th century Scotch romans. I haven't studied the 19th century stuff in letter
    press, so I may be wrong, but my impression is that things like Century, Miller
    Text, and Chronicle all have lower contrast than the 19th century stuff. I suspect
    that this history indicates an underlying reality about the physiology and psychology
    of how we read.  So I don't think the \"prejudice\" is just prejudice, but rather
    a well founded belief that such high contrast, vertical stress stuff is a problem
    for the eye in extended text. "
  created: '2009-05-05 05:58:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Bill: <em>I suspect that this history indicates an underlying reality about
    the physiology and psychology of how we read. </em>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Women_s_Shoes_5754.jpg]"
  created: '2009-05-05 06:24:59'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "People generally acknowledge high heels are bad for the health of women's
    feet and harder to walk in. Do you deny that as well? All shoes are equally good
    for every purpose? If a woman wants to go on a 20 mile hike, those high heels
    you show are just as good as hiking boots? The same shoe design for the ball and
    for the hike? \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2009-05-05 15:13:37'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em> On objectivity, I am not basing myself only on my eyes, but also history.
    The high contrast types of the 19th century went into eclipse.</em>\r\n\r\nSuppose
    you lived during the height of high-contrast didones. Wouldn't you then be able
    to make the argument that history has proven their superiority, since the low
    contrast types of the 17th-18th centuries have gone into eclipse? "
  created: '2009-05-05 16:42:24'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Yes you would,  but should you?
  created: '2009-05-05 16:44:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "BIll, you argued that the the latest and most popular version of a cultural
    artefact, book type, is therefore better fitted to human physiology. Would you
    argue that for another cultural artefact, shoes?\r\n\r\nFlawed, dysfunctional
    products can become well entrenched for all kinds of reason. Success is no measure
    of virtue.\r\n\r\nAnd as Craig notes, if time and progress improve type, how come
    the preferred book type went from garalde to didone and then back again to garalde?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-05 17:41:12'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">how come the preferred book type went from garalde to didone and then back
    again to garalde?\r\n\r\nBecause fashion ruled for a time, but practicality--in
    this case readability--won out in the longer run. "
  created: '2009-05-05 18:43:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "And mass literacy emerged and people lapped up Dickens <em>in spite of</em>
    the high contrast type in which it was set?\r\nNot to mention the lack of leading:
    didn't anybody figure out that was bad for readability?\r\n\r\nAren't you dismissing
    something that doesn't fit your prejudices of readability as mere fashion? \r\nIt's
    hard to believe that something so supposedly impractical could be so predominant
    for so long, around the world (and in Cyrillic too).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DickensTwist_4448.jpg]\r\nThis
    is from <em>Bentley's Miscellany</em>, Nov. 1, 1837, the magazine in which <em>Oliver
    Twist</em> was first published, in serial form. \r\nThe size is small pica (approx.
    11/11).\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DickensCU_3991.jpg]"
  created: '2009-05-05 21:42:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick, those aren't bad. In your blow up of the pica, most of the thins are
    ok, so the overall contrast I wouldn't complain about so much. I have, however,
    seen others from the 19th century are much worse. As I said my complaint is high
    contrast with vertical stress, and this, as printed isn't such high contrast.
    \ \r\n\r\nAs to the tight leading, I think that people today have a fashion of
    thinking that huge leading contributes to readability, less so than it actually
    does. \r\n\r\nSo you see my views aren't just a matter of going along with what's
    happening today.\r\n\r\n>Aren\u2019t you dismissing something that doesn\u2019t
    fit your prejudices of readability as mere fashion?\r\n\r\nNo, I'm not dismissing
    anything. I'm expressing a well considered opinion, which may none the less be
    wrong, that vertical stress with high contrast is less readable in extended text.
    And judging by what most folks have done in designing fonts and setting text for
    over a hundred years, most agree with me. "
  created: '2009-05-06 00:58:19'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: "Feel free to refer me to the ID section, but since it was raised here: does
    anyone know what Micha\xEBl Amzalag is using in <cite>Interview</cite> for body
    copy?"
  created: '2009-05-06 02:19:25'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Nick, one of the results of having an interest in the English Catholic revival
    is that I've read quite a few books in 19th century editions set in Scotch types,
    often at ludicrously small sizes, and with little leading, and with huge gaping
    spaces at the end of every sentence. Are they hard to read? Well, no, not really,
    once you get into them, but on the other hand I don't think they're as easy to
    read as most 20th century publishing using lower contrast types based on renaissance
    models.
  created: '2009-05-06 03:11:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>And judging by what most folks have done in designing fonts and setting
    text for over a hundred years, most agree with me.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think that's
    true.\r\nSure, there was a revival of old-style types starting in the 1890s, but
    it took a long time for the Modern faces to be eclipsed. \r\n\r\nI just had a
    look at a couple of Linotype catalogs, 1923 and 1958, and most of the typefaces
    in them are high contrast with vertical stress -- including those named Old Style!
    \r\n\r\nPick any year in the 1950s or 60s and check the text type of the large
    circulation American magazines--you'll have a hard job finding anything that isn't
    high contrast and vertically stressed.\r\n\r\nEven in news type, following the
    introduction of the Legibility Series in the 1920s, one still finds the old numbered
    Moderns being well used in the 1950s and 60s.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-06 04:57:04'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "There was a revival of oldstyles, but it when was it really that there were
    any decent ones in general use? The Doves press was nice, I guess, but very low
    in use. Caslon never really disappeared, but the others didn't come into use until
    almost the Depression\r\n\r\nGoudy's Garamont ~ 1920\r\nBembo ~ 1929\r\nCentaur
    ~ 1914/1929\r\n\r\nUnless I'm way off base on my history, of course"
  created: '2009-05-06 16:43:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "IMO, the \"killer\" oldstyle was Goudy's Kennerley of 1911, which was instantly
    huge, and widely used for at least 20 years.\r\nTo be followed by many other Goudy
    oldstyles.\r\n\r\nFrom ATF and Benton, as Dan says, Centaur, but also Garamond
    (1919)\r\nFrom Monotype: Imprint, Plantin, Caslon (recut) in the 'teens.\r\n\r\nI
    don't know about continental European types.\r\n\r\nCheltenham was extremely popular
    in many countries--would that be classified as an old style?!"
  created: '2009-05-06 17:51:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Which came 1st? the readability or the popularity? (chicken egg).\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-05-06 18:48:45'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "What is the saying? What is read most is read best? Or something like that?
    Blackletter was \"readable\", but not anymore. Perhaps Moderns were perfectly
    readable too. \r\n\r\nPerhaps it is that oldstyles just happen to be among the
    first of typefaces, read by everyone first and thus readable by everyone first."
  created: '2009-05-06 18:56:31'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Caslon was first revived in 1844 with \"Lady Willoughby's Diary\", with the
    original matrices, I think. It caused something of a stir because it was so much
    more readable than the 'Moderns' that were then fashionable :)  Updike, who admittedly
    was a Caslon fanatic, said the revival was \"The typographic event of the mid-nineteenth
    century\".\r\n\r\nFollowing this, foundries gradually issued a lot of typefaces
    called 'old style' based on Caslon, but with larger x-heights and I believe also
    less contrast. According to Mac McGrew's book, Bruce Old Style originated in 1869,
    Binny Old Style around 1863, and Bookman Old Style originates in 1860. Caslon
    itself was revived in the US supposedly from English electroplates at about the
    same time, also under the name 'Old Style'. Later in the century they put the
    name Caslon back on it, and with hot metal type every foundry had versions of
    both Caslon and \"Old Style\", often with shortened descenders. One of the most
    refined of the higher x-height revivals was Imprint, which I think you can still
    see used occasionally.\r\n\r\nI don't know, but I would guess from the 1860s on
    you will see a lot of 'old styles' in print. The peak of the craze for Caslon
    was probably 1900 to 1925. After the Bembo and Garamond were revived, it lost
    some of its mystique as there were other good and refined old style revivals available,
    as well as the new stuff from Goudy, which was very popular also in the US. Today
    I sense we are about due for a new Caslon craze :)  \r\n\r\nBy the way, I think
    the Scotch style, such as Nick has revived, in my eyes was never as problematic
    in text as the real Didones, which have more starved horizontals. "
  created: '2009-05-06 18:59:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...the real Didones...</em>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Didot_6414.jpg]\r\n...were
    not \"starved of horizontals\", although one may get that impression from present
    day digital interpretations."
  created: '2009-05-06 19:34:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>It caused something of a stir because it was so much more readable than
    the \u2019Moderns\u2019 that were then fashionable :) Updike, who admittedly was
    a Caslon fanatic, said the revival was \u201CThe typographic event of the mid-nineteenth
    century\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nLady Willoughby's Diary was influential, but the idea
    that it was \"so much more readable\" is a non sequitur. \r\nIn fact, the revival
    was found wanting, and what grew out of it and did become popular, the Miller
    and Richard \"Old Style\" was, to all intents and purposes, a modern face, with
    high contrast and vertical stress! The same is true of the other \"Old Styles\"
    you mention.\r\nSo don't be mislead by the term \"Old Style\" as it was used prior
    to the more authentic revivalism of the 20th century, that was sparked by Morris'
    work in the late 1890s.\r\n\r\nUpdike was extremely prejudiced against the trade
    typography of the 19th century, omitting it from his history (e.g. he shows no
    sans), so hardly a reliable source as to what was significant then.\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-06 19:35:36'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick, unlike your scan of Scotch, I find that Didot pretty bad as far as
    readability. The weight of the stem in the Scotch is carried much further into
    the top arch, compared to Didot and Bodoni, where the horizontal arch is thinner
    throughout. \r\n\r\nThe result to my eyes is that there is a lot of shimmer from
    the 'picket fence' effect in your scan, because the heavy verticals are so dominant.
    \r\n\r\nAs far as the Old Style of Miller and Richard, here's what Jaspert's encyclopedia
    says: \"The stress is vertical, but though not abruptly so. Note the curves of
    the c, e, and p.\"\r\n\r\nRemember that Caslon's o has a vertical stress, as well
    as some of his caps in many sizes. The c, e, and p have a slight old style stress
    in the Monotype version of Old Style that Jaspert shows. \r\n\r\nBut the important
    point in that note is \"not abruptly so\". The gentler modulation is the main
    thing they took from Caslon, and with it lower contrast. Judging by the many later
    versions of Old Style, you are mistaken in saying that Phemister's original Old
    Style for Miller & Richard has high contrast. In fact, the low contrast and big
    x-height is overdone, in my opinion, in the \"Old Style\", though it is very readable.
    (I don't have a sample of the original Miller & Richard type.) My problem with
    the Old Style is an aesthetic one, namely that it is rather dull looking--something
    that certainly can't be said of the Scotches, including your revival. \r\n\r\nI
    never said that vertical stress was a problem in itself. There are great text
    faces with vertical stress, like Caledonia--a modified Scotch. What I do think
    is that those with vertical stress are less tolerant of higher contrast--you can
    push diagonal contrast a little more without getting into trouble. \r\n\r\nAnd
    in any case text type needs lower contrast, lower than in your scanned example
    immediately above, IMHO. Note that this issue also is not simply absolute thinness
    of the thins, but also how bold the stems are in relation to them. Here in your
    Didot scan the result is exactly the thing I have problems with in text. It is
    beautiful in display, but that is another story.  "
  created: '2009-05-06 21:25:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DidotCU_3561.jpg]\r\nYou're right, the
    heavy verticals here do dominate.\r\nI don't think the problem is in the \"important\"
    part of the letters, such as across the top of \"n\". It's more that the serifs
    and terminals are weak--and that's where the Scotch beefed up the Modern style,
    with long serifs and big ball terminals.\r\nIf the serifs and terminals are strong,
    then I don't think the abruptness of the transition from thin to thick is an issue.
    Example of a Scotch Modern, 1872:\r\n.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Sunday2_5133.jpg]\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\n\r\nBill:
    <em> Judging by the many later versions of Old Style, you are mistaken in saying
    that Phemister\u2019s original Old Style for Miller & Richard has high contrast.</em>\r\n\r\nIt
    depends how you define \"high contrast\".\r\nI certainly get the impression of
    high contrast from this Victorian oldstyle (below, from the same magazine as the
    previous sample), looking at the hairline thickness of the crossbar in \"a\",
    horizontal strokes of \"b\" and \"d\", and the thin strokes of \"w\" and \"y\",
    but at the same time there is much less contrast in \"e\", \"h\" and \"n\" and
    across the top of \"a\". \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Sunday1_3487.jpg]"
  created: '2009-05-06 23:55:21'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Thanks for those wonderfully revealing scans, Nick. There's a lot of food
    for thought there. I'll think about it post tomorrow...
  created: '2009-05-07 00:32:12'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: the scotch in the second pic is really nice.
  created: '2009-05-07 05:00:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick, here's my take on your great comparative scans of Didot, Scotch, and
    Old Style. \r\n\r\nThe way the arches are handled is, I think, as I said. There
    is a lot of variability because of ink varying quite a lot from letter to letter,
    but if you look at the lighter branches, I think you can see that in general the
    weight is carried farthest through the arch in old style, less in Scotch, and
    still less in Didot. This is more obvious in the digital revivals of these, which
    are mainly based on the metal. \r\n\r\nHowever, I have learned from your scans
    something I didn't realize before. \r\n\r\nA lot in the difference in look is
    not only how thin the thins are, and the transitions, but also just in the weight
    of the thick vertical strokes. The contrast is the ratio of the thicks to the
    thins and a lot of that here is that in Didot the thicks are thicker, say in relation
    to the x-height of the letters. The Scotch is lighter, and the Old Style a lot
    lighter. Thus a lot of the reduction in contrast from Didot to Scotch to OldStyle
    is lightening the stems. \r\n\r\nThe net result is a striking difference in typographic
    'color' in the three faces, with the heavy verticals punching you in the face,
    so to speak, in Didot. As you point out, interestingly, the heavier serifs in
    the Scotch does help relieve this, as well as lighter stems. The OldStyle dramatically
    changes it, giving a more open, lacy effect, but perhaps a bit too grey.  "
  created: '2009-05-08 02:31:15'
date: '2009-05-01 08:23:54'
node_type: forum
title: 'Proportional Oldstyle: An anachronism, but quite nice'

---
