---
author:
  name: Bites of Life
  picture: 114808
body: "Hello, \r\n\r\nI'm trying to find different typefaces that will enhance the
  content for a campaign aimed at tackling homophobia. The target audience for this
  campaign are young people experiencing a transitional period in defining their sexual
  orientation. Teenagers who are scared to express who they truly are in a society
  full of stereotypes and prejudices. Your thoughts and assistance would be very helpful.\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "You could use typefaces by gay type designers, and perhaps mention it in
    your brochure/poster/whatever. I'm not gay, but I'd guess taste among those who
    are differs quite a lot. Using something feminine like Didot Headline in fluorescent
    pink would be to stereotypical in my eyes. \r\n\r\nI'm not sure if it would be
    alright mentioning names here, but I know about at least one."
  created: '2009-05-03 00:28:23'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I think the sexual orientation part of this question isn't quite relevant.
    It's more important to choose a font that communicates 'approachable, understanding,
    appealing to young people'. Or something else...I don't have the design brief.\r\n\r\nI
    wouldn't choose a font just because the person who designed it happened to be
    gay. That would be the same as positive racism, and could contribute to stereotyping.
    (\"Gay people are so creative\" kind of nonsense.) Surely the point of the campaign
    is that sexuality itself is a non-issue, and the difficulty lies in growing up
    in a society with prejudices. \r\n\r\nPick a font that fits the purpose. Have
    a look at what other welfare organisations are doing.\r\n\r\nI've designed promotional
    stuff for gay organisations but always picked fonts that communicate their tone,
    as I would for a straight organisation."
  created: '2009-05-03 01:09:40'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: Yea, in terms of picking a typeface, the subject matter of the poster is a
    bit of a red herring. The typeface itself won't cure homophobia. But it can help
    communicate a message, so formulate the message and find the typeface that best
    works for that.
  created: '2009-05-03 03:41:15'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'Good call, Bendy. I focused more on the target audience: "young people experiencing
    a transitional period in defining their sexual orientation".'
  created: '2009-05-03 10:07:04'
- author:
    name: Bites of Life
    picture: 114808
  body: "Thank you to all of you for your prompt reply to my question. \r\n\r\nFrode,
    it would be great if you could send me the name of those typographers to analyse
    their designs. If you feel more comfortable send me an email to my personal account
    bitesofdesign@hotmail.es \r\nI really want to keep away from stereotypes and experiment
    with typography, text and content. \r\n\r\nBendy, the point of my campaign is
    exactly as you say, 'sexuality itself is a non-issue, and the difficulty lies
    in growing up in a society with prejudices'. Obviously, a gay designer won't necessarily
    design just towards this social issue but the chances of them being involved with
    similar projects may be higher. \r\n\r\nThe tone of the campaign is to encourage
    young people to come out, to be confident, to appreciate life regardless of their
    sexual orientation. I've recently been looking at wood type block and am considering
    it as an option. Wood type would represent diversity, nature, origins. Typefaces
    used for organisations supporting the LGB Community are mostly handwritten. There
    is one typeface used by one of the organisations that I really like \u2013 \u2018knockout\u2019
    with its tall x-height in the lower characters. \r\n\r\nAluminum, you are completely
    right. I have gathered lots of info and done a fair amount of research towards
    the topic, very little of the information I found is innovative and the topic
    is a bit of a red herring, as you describe it. I\u2019m finding it really difficult
    to keep away from stereotypes and to focus on typography. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-03 23:43:46'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Gotham would be a good choice here.
  created: '2009-05-04 04:44:13'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Oh, you mercenary herring you, Sii.
  created: '2009-05-04 06:42:30'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: <a href="http://typophile.com/node/18946">this thread</a> is probably worth
    reading.
  created: '2009-05-04 09:56:45'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Wow, that other thread is a real mess!\r\n\r\nIt's hard to make an informed
    font choice without knowing exactly what you are designing. Are you making adverts,
    info packs, branding the organisation or doing web design? We should be careful
    to focus on the design.\r\n\r\nFor me and lots of gay (and straight) people, sexuality
    plays no part in professional life. I realise this project needs to talk about
    sexuality in an open way but by purposely picking a font by a gay designer there
    is the risk of implying a person's sexuality is relevant at work. \r\n\r\nI can
    see however there are a lot of different points of view so it's going to come
    down to you.\r\n\r\nI'd choose some lively sans. Woodtype is an interesting idea
    too. Will you post your design when you've decided?\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-04 11:47:59'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Ben, great comments &ndash; I totally agree.\r\n\r\nI'd focus on the \"feel\"
    the thing should have. Maybe that's being proud, \"bold\", maybe a little quirky
    but happy with it. Not a font that feels like it's trying to be invisible, but
    not one that feels like it's <em>trying</em> to be \"different\" either; but one
    that goes its own way, proudly, and happily. Now if only I had an example :)\r\nActually,
    a \"lively sans\" sounds good. \r\nIn any case, I think I would avoid casting
    the type too much in terms of perceived genderedness in this case. That can so
    easily slip into embarrassing, blunt clich\xE9. \r\nLike\u2026 whatever you do,
    don't do anything with swashes! :-\\"
  created: '2009-05-04 12:32:25'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "I agree with Nina. IMHO it's not a good idea to try to find a typeface with
    a explicit message of itself, like Comic Sans for kids, bodoni for classical music
    aficionados etc... This is the kind of typographic pigeonholing I think you should
    avoid, especially for this kind of campaign, which is about stereotyping and pigeonholing.
    Making a design that looks very 'gay' (like pink, feminine and/or macho) might
    actually scare of a big part of the people you try to reach. You could play with
    these cliches, but this is a slippery slope. I would choose a modern, open-minded
    typeface, with no explicit connotations. Knockout could be good, but I'd rather
    go for something a bit cleaner, but not quite as clean as Gotham. I can't come
    up with names right now, but I hope this helps.\r\n\r\ncheerio Queneau"
  created: '2009-05-04 16:20:39'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I'm thinking the 'lively sans' could be something like [[http://www.type-together.com/Ronnia|Ronnia]]
    or even [[http://www.type-together.com/Cora|Cora]] from TypeTogether.\r\n\r\nI
    wondered briefly about [[http://www.fontsmith.com/font_details.php?font_num=461|FS
    Lola]] but it's a bit too juicy somehow, despite being the corporate font of the
    Royal Bank of Scotland (except with a modified u).\r\n\r\n[[http://www.typography.net/type/bliss|Bliss]]
    or [[http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/fontfont/ff_milo_1/|FF Milo]] are
    worth a look too."
  created: '2009-05-04 18:30:22'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I think it's akin to 'pick a paint color for my gay friends house'. There
    really aren't 'gay' colors anymore than there are 'gay fonts'. What matters is
    context beyond the fact that its a gay issue. Gay people don't live in pink houses,
    after all. \r\n\r\nFinding a 'gay font' is actually going against the campaign,
    IMHO. The whole point of combating homophobia is to show that aside from the particular
    sex they date, there really is no difference between gay people and everyone else.
    \r\n\r\nAs such, I'd suggest working on the overall campaign first. Get the message/verbiage
    pinned down and then see which way the visuals head. At that point, I think one
    could start suggesting a typeface based on that criteria. "
  created: '2009-05-04 18:37:32'
- author:
    name: sch2525
    picture: 112170
  body: "I feel that a closested gay teen would like something clean and modern, or
    even more traditional. If I was afraid to come out of the closet, a poster with
    rainbows and Raavie would scare me even more (not that anyone here suggested that).
    \r\n\r\nBendy's suggestions of Bliss or Milo are what I'm thinking of.\r\n\r\nCheck
    out this campaign in Boston a few years ago: [[http://www.wearepartofyou.org/about.html]]"
  created: '2009-05-04 18:50:44'
- author:
    name: microspective
    picture: 111866
  body: "First of all, you mentioned <strong>Knockout</strong>. Just bought four weights
    of it from H&FJ. Love it.\r\n\r\nSecondly, and more importantly, I have a comment
    about your branding and how you word this campaign's agenda. You say it's to \"tackle
    homophobia,\" then you said it's to promote young closets to come out. I suppose
    that's under the homophobia umbrella (fear of being recognized as gay), but to
    many straight folk, the term <em>homophobia</em> has little to do with those who
    are not out and way more to do with fear/misunderstanding/hate/threat of or by
    homosexual society on the whole.\r\n\r\nIf the goal is to do both, consider coming
    up with a concise mission statement. For example, the American Lung Association's
    mission is <em>to save lives by improving lung health and preventing lung disease</em>.
    It clearly delineates two separate but related ideas. Anyway, you see where I'm
    going. Best of luck.\r\n\r\n<em>@Scott:</em> \"If I was afraid to come out of
    the closet, a poster with rainbows and Raavie would scare me even more.\" Very
    well said. Down with taboo, misunderstood design approaches."
  created: '2009-05-04 20:19:13'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "> The tone of the campaign is to encourage young people to come out,\r\n\r\nThat
    bit scared me ;)\r\n\r\nIt's a difficult project and everyone has an opinion.
    Luckily it seems we are all saying similar things here (for once!)\r\n\r\nGood
    luck."
  created: '2009-05-04 21:00:20'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "A context always helps me to choose type, though quite often it is not apparent
    in the finished design. I find it aids decision making and guides my process.
    The obvious context here might lead to stereotypes etc, so you might have to look
    for broader contexts.\r\n\r\nOne context might be challenging the status quo or
    ideas of normality.\r\nI'm sure there are lots of typefaces that fit this idea
    (and plenty of clever people here to suggest them!)"
  created: '2009-05-05 13:53:12'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: The more I think about this the less I think any targeting is a good idea.
  created: '2009-05-07 19:07:30'
- author:
    name: Bites of Life
    picture: 114808
  body: "Thank you very much for all your comments. \r\nI've been researching the
    typefaces suggested and claryfing the content of my campaign. 'Tackling Homophobia'\r\nPlease
    find enclosed some of the layouts I've been working on. I find it difficult to
    define if it'll work in any media rather than posters.\r\n\r\nI dont know how
    to upload the postes in a small size for a better visualisation. Please accept
    my apologies for any inconvenience caused.\r\n\r\n\r\nPlease let me know your
    further comments.\r\nHave a great weekend\r\nLaura\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FMP_3455.2_Who
    is_3.png][img:sites/default/files/old-images/FMP_5504.2_Who is_4.png]"
  created: '2009-05-09 01:25:10'
- author:
    name: Bites of Life
    picture: 114808
  body: "Hello, \r\n\r\nBendy, thank you very much for your recommendation of using
    FS Lola, I really liked it, works really well with the content. The layout is
    getting shape though I'm still studing the combination the text and the message
    to display in the poster/s. To represent a series of posters I was considering
    to combine different sets of words with a paragraph of text based in articles,
    statidistics and annual reviews. These are some of the sets of words I'm working
    on.\r\n\r\nTalent\r\nEnthusiasm\r\nAspiration\r\nor Success\r\nIntolerance\r\n
    \r\nIndividuality\r\nDiversity\r\nInclusiveness\r\nDiscrimination\r\n \r\nAttitude
    \r\nRespect\r\nEducation\r\nBullying\r\n\r\nOnce the Layout is achieved I'm thinking
    to apply it bright colours in the background enhanced by the inclusion of motifs,
    ornaments representing the nature and symbolising life. \r\n\r\nLet me know your
    comments. \r\nDo you think the question in the poster work 100%?\r\n\r\nThanks\r\nLaura\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-10 12:47:31'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Hi Laura\r\n\r\nGlad you liked FS Lola...I wondered if it seemed too jolly
    for a serious topic. Maybe others can comment. Are you actually doing this for
    Stonewall?\r\n\r\nI think the strongest question is \"Why does there have to be
    an odd one out?\"\r\n\r\nI would remove the ellipsis and scale each line of the
    question to be the same length as the WHY (maybe with WHY in caps too). It's hard
    to say exactly what else to do with the layout as there's no graphic elements
    yet and it's hard to tell what tone we're aiming for. I wouldn't use a big question
    mark, just keep one in the text, there's no reason to emphasise it when WHY is
    so big already.\r\n\r\nI think 'transsexual' prefers to have two s's (but both
    spellings are possible). And there's a spelly in 'homoxexual'!\r\n\r\nHope that's
    helpful :)"
  created: '2009-05-11 00:11:47'
- author:
    name: Bites of Life
    picture: 114808
  body: "Thanks Bendy.\r\n\r\nPerhaps you are right, FS Lola may be a bit jolly for
    the question matter but one of the reasons for which I think works perfectly is
    in the attempt to approach teenagers with +16 age. Have a look the new layouts
    with graphic elements and potential colours I placed in flickr, my username is
    'Bites of life'. \r\nI've spoken with Stonewall to gather research and went down
    to their offices in Waterloo. They haven't seen this designs yet. This project
    is part of my final major project, I designed the brief and picked the issue by
    myself, simply because I disagree with injustice in the world. Hopefully Stonewall
    want to use them for one of their campaigns. \r\n\r\nLately, I've been working
    in the content and the combination of words, I'm quite happy with it. Also, I
    divided the question in two different sections to facilitate the comprehension
    of information. Step 1 you select the odd one out, then Step 2 you read why is
    the odd one out. This layout is the latest I've achieved. \r\nNow, I'm working
    in the colour and patterns. I need to have it printed and ready by Thursday afternoon.
    \r\n\r\nI've decided to upload just one image here because I don't know how to
    convert them to a comfortable size. The other series are in my flickr's account:
    'Bites of Life'.\r\n\r\nAll your comments will be really much appreciated.\r\n\r\nThanks\r\nLaura\r\n
    \ \r\n[images moved with permission.]"
  created: '2009-05-12 14:38:02'
- author:
    name: Bites of Life
    picture: 114808
  body: "I've just realised that you can see the prints one by one here if you save
    them and open them, make sure that you have .png at the end of the files'name.\r\n\r\n[images
    removed by permission.]\r\n\r\nThanks"
  created: '2009-05-12 14:43:42'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "You can resize the pictures in Photoshop by going to Image>Image size then
    choosing the resolution. 550 pixels wide is good for Typophile. These big PNGs
    will be slowing down this page. Actually it looks like you are not using Photoshop
    (the text is not anti-aliased).\r\n\r\nI wonder if you are using a grid to align
    the columns of text. The columns 'which' and 'why' and 'homosexual' don't quite
    look evenly distributed. Also I'd hang the w of 'which' and 'why' into the margin
    slightly to compensate for the shape (outdent slightly).\r\n\r\nI'd also move
    the whole text up slightly (optically centred not geometrically centred on the
    page). \r\n\r\nHope that's helpful :)"
  created: '2009-05-12 14:51:51'
- author:
    name: Bites of Life
    picture: 114808
  body: "Thanks Bendy, \r\n\r\nYou're right. I'm using Illustrator for the whole process,
    then I have exported as png format. I'll resize them in Photoshop in the future.\r\n\r\nGood
    tips about the w, I'll move into the margin to compensate,I was wondering if I
    should before you said it because It was difficult to align it with the rest of
    the text. The poster with homosexual I certainly forgot about aligning it as the
    rest of the posters, good spot. Also, I'll follow your advise to compensate the
    whole composition. \r\nI just realise that I could actually try without the ellipsis
    as you suggested in a previous message. \r\n\r\nThank you so much for your support.\r\n\r\nLaura\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-12 18:35:13'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: 'Also, I''d strongly recommend you to use the word ''gay'' rather than ''homosexual''.
    You''ll find Stonewall doesn''t use ''homosexual'' and most style guides prefer
    ''gay''. '
  created: '2009-05-12 20:06:00'
- author:
    name: Bites of Life
    picture: 114808
  body: "Really? The thing is homosexual refers to attraction and/or sexual behavior
    between people of the same sex, or to a sexual orientation, in other words lesbian
    and gay. If I place gay, I have to change the rest of the words and it would be
    oriented just to the male sector?.\r\n\r\nI'm doubing also between - attitude,
    prejudice, respect & tolerance. Can attitude be misunderstanded I was thinking
    to match this combination with a different word such as, friendship, approachability,sociability,
    appreciation, perception or understanding?\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2009-05-12 23:07:21'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Your limiting the people who might be able to comment by posting some large
    images. \r\n\r\nWith my moderator hat on: Please post smaller images. Thank you."
  created: '2009-05-12 23:26:40'
- author:
    name: Bites of Life
    picture: 114808
  body: "Sorry, I've tried to delete them. Do you know if I can delete them without
    deleting the topic?\r\nThanks\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-13 00:20:16'
- author:
    name: Bites of Life
    picture: 114808
  body: "Finally, I resize them. My apologies!\r\n\r\nBendy, I really like the exclusion
    of the ellipsis.\r\nThanks for your support\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Homophobia_1_4168................png]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Homophobia_3_5968.png]"
  created: '2009-05-13 01:49:43'
- author:
    name: Bites of Life
    picture: 114808
  body: It should be an application to allow us to get rid of the images in the posts.
  created: '2009-05-13 01:51:55'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I can delete them. Do I have your permission?
  created: '2009-05-13 01:58:03'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "'Gay' includes gay men and lesbians. Check the Stonewall website.\r\n\r\nYou
    could also change 'heterosexual' to 'straight'."
  created: '2009-05-13 09:34:26'
- author:
    name: Bites of Life
    picture: 114808
  body: Please would you be able to delete all the big files?. Thank you
  created: '2009-05-13 09:46:35'
- author:
    name: Bites of Life
    picture: 114808
  body: "I'm questioning whether it'll work as a poster. I doesn't impact with the
    message when \r\nyou first see it. Actually, you need to read the paragraph to
    get the message. \r\nBendy you suggestion make complete sense. I was using safer
    terms but all is very wordy.\r\nThanks, I'm considering it.\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-13 09:54:25'
date: '2009-05-02 22:57:08'
node_type: forum
title: Choosing a font - Tackling Homophobia Campaign

---
