---
author:
  name: ebensorkin
  picture: 109987
body: "So I was just reading that Indesign tracking is xx/1000 em... here:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/19165\r\n\r\nAnd
  I suddenly realized that tracking is linear - not proportional. I don't know why
  but I had naively thought it was proportional.\r\n\r\nIt must be far too processor
  intensive to be otherwise - but ideally speaking... wouldn't it be better to open
  spaces between letters and the letters pace on a proportional basis?\r\n\r\nAside
  from making your computer dead slow - what downsides do you see?\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: By "proportional" you mean proportional to what? Some linear distance between
    letters, or some computation of interletter area?
  created: '2009-05-12 14:58:13'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "I\u2019m not sure if I can follow your thought \u2026\r\nAn 8pt em is smaller
    than a 12pt em \u2013 hence the tracking <em>is</em> proprtional, no?\r\nF"
  created: '2009-05-12 15:30:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think Eben means that tracking is not a percentage of the spce between
    glyphs but a constant quantity.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-05-12 15:56:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "What I mean is two neighboring v as in the word savvy are far closer together
    than two letter i might be as in Hawaii. If I track both words by -10, I will
    subtract 10 units from both pairs of glyphs. It will not subtract 10% of the space
    between both pairs of glyphs.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-05-12 16:06:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "This is and has been the problem with tracking--some pairs will overlap while
    others may still look too far apart. Negative tracking has more potential for
    problem than positive but the ratios of space needed for proper spacing are not
    kept. After tracking, it is best to hand kern the results to lessen problems.
    As usual, what seems like a quick fix, is not.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-05-12 16:07:37'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>\u2026wouldn\u2019t it be better to open spaces between letters and
    the letters pace on a proportional basis?</cite>\r\n\r\nAt small sizes proportional
    tracking probably wouldn\u2019t work because hardly any space would be added to
    letters with narrow or negative sidebearings and I think that this would probably
    generate some very weird looking words with v and w in them. It would probably
    work better at larger sizes, but at that point there\u2019s going to be manual
    intervention anyway, so I doubt it would be especially useful. "
  created: '2009-05-12 16:07:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...wouldn\u2019t work because hardly any space would be added to letters
    with narrow or negative sidebearings ...\"\r\n\r\nThat would be the desired effect,
    James, not a negative. If what you say is true, all letters would have the same
    sidebearings and no kerning.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-05-12 16:11:11'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I guess if there's a large positive kern between two letters then setting
    proportional tracking at large values (like 100 or more) would blow those letters
    way too far apart. And if it was a negative kern the letters might track the wrong
    way.\r\n\r\nAside from kerning, I think proportional tracking would exaggerate
    the tiny differences between sidebearings too much and look weird."
  created: '2009-05-12 16:17:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Well, in David Kindersley's theory, if the font has been correctly spaced
    in the first place then linear tracking should be OK. \r\n\r\nBut Robert Slimbach
    says that in larger optical sizes the spacing on rounds and straights need to
    be adjusted differently. If this is also true for ideal tracking, then percentage
    wouldn't cut it either, as you'd need to discriminate between straight-straight
    round-round and straight-round. \r\n\r\nI think tracking the lower case of a well
    spaced font is very likely to go wrong if it is more than a small amount in any
    case. Of course with small tracking, any non-linearity of ideal tracking has less
    of an impact. What is 'small' some of the experienced book designers here on typophile
    can probably tell you. Upper case can take much more positive tracking and probably
    Kindersley is right about that.   "
  created: '2009-05-12 16:32:25'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Ah, I see now! Thanks, Chris.\r\nI had a non-proportional tracking in mind
    that would stay fixed at an absolute value, regardless of the size; e.g. +2pt
    instead of +20/1000em. I miss such an option of optical tracking \u2013 tight(er)
    for larger sizes, loose(r) for smaller sizes, every now and then. Well, not very
    often."
  created: '2009-05-12 16:41:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Eben, the principle difficulty of proportional tracking is captured in the
    question 'Proportional to what?' Sidebearing measurements capture a distance between
    the origin point and advance width, respectively, and the left and right extremes
    of the glyph outline. That tells you absolutely nothing about appropriate optical
    spacing, which is a complex relationship between three factors: size and shape
    of inter-letter white spaces, glyph shape and glyph density. The complexity of
    this relationship -- and how this relationship changes at different scales --
    is what stands in the way of the holy grail of automated spacing.\r\n\r\nIf we
    could proportional track text in an optically appropriate way, we would also be
    able to proportionally space text automatically; indeed, we could erase the mechanical
    distinction between sidebearing spacing and kerning.\r\n\r\nThe other thing to
    note about tracking, by the way, is that all the adjustment is added to or subtracted
    from the advance width, i.e. to one side only of the glyph (although there may
    be a mirrored adjustment in RTL text in e.g. InDesign ME)."
  created: '2009-05-12 19:10:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: ">>> Well, in David Kindersley\u2019s theory, if the font has been correctly
    spaced in the first place then linear tracking should be OK.\r\n\r\nSurely being
    able to add space linearly is one absolute proof, if it is needed, that you got
    the spacing (and subsequent kerning) correct in the first place. What you did
    (if you did it well) was make the spacing optically <em>equal</em>. Surely that
    is what kerning is all about, making the space between different pairs equivalent.
    So I work hard to get all the gaps equal to, say, 50 (units deliberately not specified).
    How will all the gaps look 100 if I then add 20 to one pair and 80 to another?
    Remember that you are simply adding 'white' in between the white extremities of
    glyphs. Am I making sense or have I way oversimplified it? Surely all the optical
    trickery is already done when you've finished kerning. There is nowhere else for
    tricks of the eye to hide once kerning has dealt with such tricks.\r\n\r\nNow
    if you can demonstrate how added white space can look different depending on the
    shape of the white space it is being added to, please do so. Plus someone please
    show me a comparative example where variable tracking is better that linear. I'll
    believe it when I see it. I'll gladly be proven wrong."
  created: '2009-05-12 20:06:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "Linear spacing also works with pairs such as AV because one is adding an
    equivalent area of spacing to the gap regardless of whether the shape of the white
    space is a rectangle or a parallelogram. The more complex the relationship between
    the kerning pair, the more parallelograms you need but the width of all the parallelograms
    is always equal.\r\n\r\nBecause one is adding area, the addition is always linear
    because the height is a constant:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/HHAVOKY_4126.png]\r\n\r\n\r\nThat
    is not to say that white space next to black doesn't <em>appear</em> whiter and
    thus less is needed. I've no doubt some of you will think these red areas look
    different in area but I would say not significantly. Mathematically speaking at
    least, they are all identical in area.\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-12 20:41:33'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_5719.gif]\r\nIs this what you
    had in mind, Eben?\r\nLine one: Untracked, kerning off\r\nLine two: Kerning off,
    tracked by Illustrator setting to match length of line 3 (+74)\r\nLine three:
    Letters manually spaced at 200% of normal unkerned spacing (difference in x value
    of the leftmost coordinate of the left letter and the rightmost coordinate of
    the right\r\n\r\nIn other words, if a= distance between two letters in line one,
    that space is a+74 in line two and 2a in line three."
  created: '2009-05-12 20:47:57'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: That should say "(difference in x value of the rightmost coordinate of the
    left letter and the leftmost coordinate of the right)".
  created: '2009-05-12 21:57:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "Craig, neither line 2 or line 3 looks right to me, I'm not saying you think
    either looks right. (I know you were only asking Eben if that's what he meant.)\r\n\r\nCan
    you do a version where you switch the kerning on and add linear space (as in line
    2 but kerned already) to make the line the same length? That is the one that I
    maintain will look best. Either way, you're gonna need the kerning switched on
    for a satisfactory result (even before manually adding positive percentage).\r\n\r\nOr
    have I completely misunderstood? Surely one needs kerning on to fix local errors
    once the global spacing has been decided? \r\n"
  created: '2009-05-12 22:07:19'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Well, here's the story with kerning - I started to do this exercise with
    kerning on, and then I arrived at AW, which kerned of course has negative space
    as I was measuring it. I didn't want to double the negative space, so I backed
    out, turned off kerning, and started over. \r\n\r\nThis is really a flaw in my
    method (how I chose to measure spacing) rather than anything else. If I have time
    I'll tweak my way of measuring and redo with kerning on."
  created: '2009-05-12 22:41:53'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_3934.gif]\r\nOnce more with kerning!\r\n1st:
    No tracking\r\n2nd: Illustrator's constant tracking to make it match line 3 (+113)\r\n3rd:
    Manually spaced at 200% of regular kerned spacing, this time measured as the horizontal
    distance between the letters at the height where they come closest to each other
    (e.g. bottom of AW, top of WW, 2/3 up of WO).  "
  created: '2009-05-12 22:56:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: IMO as tracking increases, the width of the Space character should decrease.
  created: '2009-05-12 23:04:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "Yeah Craig, no 2 (linear +/- x) is still better for me.\r\n\r\n>>>IMO as
    tracking increases, the width of the Space character should decrease.\r\n\r\nIsn't
    the logical conclusion of this statement that as tracking increases, the space
    will decrease to the extent that it appears to disappear? I expect there is a
    threshold after which this doesn't work."
  created: '2009-05-13 11:51:47'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> tracking increases, the width of the Space character should decrease.\r\n\r\nBy
    the same amount, or only a portion?"
  created: '2009-05-13 15:20:38'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Craig, thanks for the examples! \r\n\r\nSorry if the original post was not
    100% clear! Chris is correct : I mean that the increase in space between letters
    ( and the word space) in tracking is not a percentage of the space between glyphs
    but increased in a linear and therefore constant steps.\r\n\r\nIf the space between
    the stems** of an n + n which for example in the type I am making now is  216+180
    =396 ( I have a 2048 em).  And if the space between an o + o  is more or less*
    60+60=120. From a critical point of view I know that speaking about the flats
    the number I have is of course not taking into account some things that do also
    matter like the serifs, the density of the serifs, the serifs shape, length and
    so on. But for the sake of having something concrete to measure from and to allow
    the argument be presented quickly let's pick the stem. The flat to round is a
    bit over 2/3 at .696 of the flat to flat. Then in rough terms this means that
    my round + round is about one third .333 of my flat + flat.\r\n\r\nOf course what
    happens when you add to these figures in a linear manner is that their ratio to
    each other changes. And what i am wondering is if maintenance this ratio looks
    better or not.\r\n\r\n For me looking at the lower case is a bit more interesting
    because we read more of it. If I do a quick experiement I will need to try to
    make the net impact on line length equivalent as Craig did. Probably the way to
    do it is to add and subtract from the existing glyphs side spacing by a percent
    and then take that length and match it using tracking. Doing a negative as well
    as a positive would be interesting as well. I suspect it is with reduced spaces
    that the greater benefit would be seen if there was one.\r\n\r\nI will post the
    numbers I have shortly. John, you are 100% corerect in saying \"Proportional to
    what?\". Hopefully the numbers will explain that well. However if they don't or
    if you think there is a better way of doing this please let me know.\r\n\r\nNick
    when you say \"IMO as tracking increases, the width of the Space character should
    decrease.\" you means that as the spaces between letters get smaller the word
    space should also get smaller - correct? If so In Design does precisely this.
    I don't have Quark so so I don't know what it does. Or are you really saying that
    letters that are spaced wider need less word space & the opposite? Surely not.\r\n\r\nThe
    next step will be to post my numbers and then to do some test words.\r\n\r\n\r\n*The
    extrema are at different heights but the diference is maybe 1 o 2 em so it hardly
    matters \r\n\r\n** Measuring this way is slightly arbitrary."
  created: '2009-05-13 17:41:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Also, what about  negative tracking? This is where the real problems occur.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-05-13 17:44:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Eben, Slimbach says that round to round needs to be tightened *more* than
    straight to straight at larger optical sizes. Since rounds are normally tighter,
    that's the opposite of what you are trying. \r\n\r\nIt's an interesting question
    you're investigating. I don't know the answers, but I suspect John, above, is
    right that there isn't any simple rule. "
  created: '2009-05-13 18:10:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em> \u201CIMO as tracking increases, the width of the Space character should
    decrease.\u201D you means that as the spaces between letters get smaller the word
    space should also get smaller - correct?</em>\r\n\r\nNo."
  created: '2009-05-13 18:16:03'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>If the space between the stems** of an n + n which for example in the
    type I am making now is 216+180 =396 ( I have a 2048 em). And if the space between
    an o + o is more or less* 60+60=120.</em>\r\n\r\nThe flaw I see in your plans
    (and in my experiments) is that that is the <em>distance</em> between the letters,
    not the <em>space</em> between the letters."
  created: '2009-05-13 19:29:20'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@ Berkson:\r\n<em>\"But Robert Slimbach says that in larger optical sizes
    the spacing on rounds and straights need to be adjusted differently.\"</em>\r\n\r\nSounds
    like a good read. What book is this this from?\r\n\r\n\r\n@ Job:\r\n<em>\">>>
    Well, in David Kindersley\u2019s theory, if the font has been correctly spaced
    in the first place then linear tracking should be OK.\"</em>\r\n\r\nI briefly
    checked out [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Kindersley|David Kindersley]]
    on Wikipedia and couldn't find mention of his theory. Can you direct me to where
    is this documented?\r\n\r\n\r\n@ Sorkin:\r\n<em>\"If I do a quick experiement\u2026\"</em>\r\n\r\nIt
    sounds as though you have a background in experimental psychology. Where did you
    learn this?\r\n\r\n\r\nNice thread."
  created: '2009-05-13 19:39:48'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: '[[http://www.typophile.com/node/19789|Previous Typophile thread on Kindersley]].'
  created: '2009-05-13 19:49:26'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I have posted a PDF so you can see the numbers if not an example yet - Christopher
    I don't have  background but I am working on that. Christopher, do you know how
    to use Google to search Typohile? If not see this http://typophile.com/node/57809\r\n\r\nI
    think you have to get above above 5em/1000 which I think is where our sensitivity
    to such things probably begins before this gets interesting. My numbers don't
    show me where that is yet. What number do you think is relevant?\r\n\r\nI do know
    that John's question of relative to what is still very relevant simply because
    fonts don't currently offer anything for an app to grab and manage on a percentage
    basis. My Percentage numbers are based on relatively easy cases. And Craig's comments
    address this as well. He is correct.\r\n\r\nI am going to chew this over for another
    hour or so."
  created: '2009-05-13 20:24:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Christopher, the Slimbach monograph is called \"Designing Multiple Master
    Typefaces\". If you google that title it will give you the link to the PDF of
    it. \r\n\r\nAbout half of that thread Craig links to is me not understanding Kindersley,
    and then finally understanding him correctly, so if you look at it skip ahead
    to where I \"get it\". \r\n\r\nKindersley's book, really a booklet, is called
    \"Optical Letter Spacing\". There is a third edition, published in 2001. Kindersley's
    stuff is very interesting, because it is a quite different approach, but was never
    fully worked out. His explanations are pretty confusing also. "
  created: '2009-05-13 21:07:26'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: Isnt this something similar to Adobes Optical Metrics in InDesign? Dont know
    the exakt algoritm but it feels similar? Or am I wrong?
  created: '2009-05-13 21:22:36'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Kindersley had a quite different approach from Adobe's optical metrics program.
    The Adobe program is based on the Hz program developed by Hermann Zapf and URW,
    if I remember rightly. And it is based on the idea of 'equal area' of whites between
    letters and avoiding closely proximate blacks, if I've got it right. Kindersley
    had a quite different approach, based on the distribution of weight of the black
    in a letter. As several people have pointed out, most recently Kent Lew, Adobe's
    Optical metrics program doesn't work very well. \r\n\r\nAn attempt was made to
    computerize Kindersley's approach, but it never really got off the ground, except
    for one brief (and impressive) test, but with a lot of ad hoc stuff being done
    for the test. \r\n\r\nCurrently what seems to be better than Adobe is KernMaster
    from Dutch Type Library, and iKern, a program that its author, Igino Marini, is
    using as the basis of his kerning service to type designers. These are for the
    design stage, not for doing on the fly in an application. "
  created: '2009-05-13 21:47:52'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Bill, have you used DTL Kernmaster?\r\n\r\nI was looking at my resources
    on the hz program and letter adjustment is all called kerning. There is no explanation
    about the math. An on the fly ikern is probably the closest thing to what I was
    thinking of.\r\n\r\nDespite being utterly impractical it may be interesting to
    look at. But my sample will have to wait until tomorrow. "
  created: '2009-05-13 23:42:54'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I haven''t used Kernmaster. I think I remember Miguel and Karsten mentioning
    that they use it.  '
  created: '2009-05-14 00:10:31'
- author:
    name: thranduil
    picture: 116951
  body: "From what I understand in the iKern explanation, he reduced the problem of
    spacing into an \"optimum breathing space\" between structures within a system,
    or something along that line, since letterforms are also structures. I smiled
    when I read that.\r\nThat's just my interpretation though. I'll probably have
    to read it again when I have enough of an engineering background."
  created: '2009-05-14 03:07:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I do know that John\u2019s question of relative to what is still very
    relevant simply because fonts don\u2019t currently offer anything for an app to
    grab and manage on a percentage basis.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's only the tip of the
    problem, though, because optical spacing involves things other than inter-letter
    space. So even if you are able to quantify that space in a way that is meaningful
    and manipulable, you still have to contend with how that space is optically affected
    by the shape of the adjacent blacks and by letter densities. It isn't just a problem
    of quantifying a variable, but of too many different variables affecting each
    other in different ways and different amounts in different contexts."
  created: '2009-05-14 03:55:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'I''ve used DTL Kernmaster a little. I''m going to try it again on a more
    typical text face to see if it behaves better in that situation. I tried it, with
    some scripting help from Karsten, during spacing of the massive Gabriola font.
    In the end, I replaced pretty much all the Kernmaster-generated values with manual
    values, but I did find the tool useful in identifying pairs that needed attention.
    This is actually backwards to how Kernmaster is typically used: normally one defines
    the pairs for the tool to look at and potentially kern, and then run the tool.
    Karsten''s scripts made it possible for me to fire the tool at arbitrary combinations
    of glyphs, and then use the Kernmaster results as clues to which pairs needed
    kerning.'
  created: '2009-05-14 04:00:02'
date: '2009-05-12 13:54:42'
files:
- filename: proportional vs whole values in spacing v.001.numbers.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/proportional vs whole values in spacing v.001.numbers.pdf
node_type: forum
title: Linear vs Proportional Letterspacing

---
