---
author:
  name: Joe Pemberton
  picture: 110420
body: "Help create the list of pioneering foundries who are not afraid of the digital
  future. (Did that sound like an agenda? Oops.)\r\n\r\nShout out the type foundries
  that allow web and other digital embedding ([[@font-face]], [[sIFR]], [[Cufon]],
  [[Flash]], etc.\r\n\r\n_ It's time to put an end to the ugliness of the web.\r\n_
  Time to change the licensing model: sell fonts to designers and web hosts and not
  to every single reader/device owner.\r\n_ Time to let the desktop publishing mindset
  die like [[rubylith]] and the [[linotype]].\r\n\r\nNote: Tiffany started a list
  here, but it quickly <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/56316\">became a discussion</a>.
  (A discussion worth reading, but it wasn't a list.)\r\n\r\nI'll start the list:\r\n\r\n[[Type
  Together]]: http://www.type-together.com/\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Jos Buivenga allows for @font-face embedding with the free weights of his
    fonts. (And others as listed above by Joe.)\r\n\r\n[[Exljbris Fonts]]: http://www.josbuivenga.demon.nl/"
  created: '2009-05-12 19:58:10'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "http://typophile.com/node/56316\r\n\r\nWhat's with Type Together? I don't
    see support for something like @fontface/sIFR/cufon in their EULA\r\nhttp://www.type-together.com/resources/eula/TT-EULA.pdf\r\nOnly
    \"secure\" subset embedding for non-commercial use. "
  created: '2009-05-12 20:00:40'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I think the comments on Twitter might have been a misunderstanding. I've asked
    them to come and comment.
  created: '2009-05-12 20:00:41'
- author:
    name: Jeremy Dooley
    picture: 110877
  body: "insigne allows web and .pdf embedding.\r\n\r\nwww.insignedesign.com\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-12 20:01:16'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: 'Thanks for starting this thread Joe. I only hope that it doesn''t turn into
    a battle of opinions, but rather a genuine resource for a very simple question:
    <cite>Who allows what and where can I buy it?</cite>'
  created: '2009-05-12 20:03:58'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I think the different web embedding needs to be outlined. There are foundries
    that allow sIFR with their basic license. There are also foundries that allow
    sIFR but only with extended licensing. There are very few foundries who allow
    @font-face and/or the use of Cuf\xF3n."
  created: '2009-05-12 20:04:13'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I agree with you Zara. I just think when people foundry-x allows for web embedding
    that is too vague an answer. They  need to state in which forms it is allowed.
  created: '2009-05-12 20:05:15'
- author:
    name: Michael Jarboe
  body: The future is now!
  created: '2009-05-12 20:07:06'
- author:
    name: aaronbell
    picture: 117132
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.fonts.info\" title=\"http://www.fonts.info\">http://www.fonts.info</a>
    and <a href=\"http://www.theleagueofmoveabletype.com/\" title=\"http://www.theleagueofmoveabletype.com/\">http://www.theleagueofmoveabletype.com/</a>
    appear to allow @font-face embedding.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.cape-arcona.com\"
    title=\"http://www.cape-arcona.com\">http://www.cape-arcona.com</a> appears to
    allow \"secure\" web embedding, but likely does not support @font-face."
  created: '2009-05-12 20:08:40'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: '[[Terminal Design]] http://www.terminaldesign.com'
  created: '2009-05-12 20:12:39'
- author:
    name: bvfonts
    picture: 109983
  body: "For my commercial fonts I allow PDF embedding for workflow and internal uses
    also and secure web embedding, unless it's used for customization tools (online
    graphics editor for instance), in that case a special license is needed.\r\n\r\nMy
    freeware has been updated to allow \"editing of the document\". I will allow all
    web embedding for the freeware. Should I go further with \"installable mode\"?
    Would that be necessary?\r\n\r\n-Jess\r\nbvfonts.com\r\nhttp://twitter.com/bvfonts"
  created: '2009-05-12 20:23:17'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "We need to create another chart. Or at least a wiki entry for Cuf\xF3n, @Font-face
    and sIFR. "
  created: '2009-05-12 20:32:39'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Not sure how helpful this list will be as most foundries allow PDF embedding.
    Need to be more specific about technologies to make the list more useful.
  created: '2009-05-12 20:32:58'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: Yes, Tif - I agree. The specifics should be outlined.
  created: '2009-05-12 20:38:24'
- author:
    name: aaronbell
    picture: 117132
  body: "Well, as Tiffany says, if we are looking specifically at foundries that allow
    web embedding rather than just considering PDF embedding, it should still be useful.
    Especially at the differentiation between sIFR, Cuf\xF3n and @font-face given
    the differentiation in technologies between them. We may also want to add fLIR
    (or facelift) to the list as well to cover the full range of different embedding
    methods that exist at the moment."
  created: '2009-05-12 20:39:33'
- author:
    name: viko
    picture: 111740
  body: "Looks like we need to update our EULA :)\r\n\r\nWe have always allowed PDF
    embedding for workflow and internal uses and do also allow secure web embedding
    in PDF and flash, which covers sIFR and i think Cufon too.\r\n\r\nWe do NOT allow
    font-linking, in sense that the font files reside on a server. If i understand
    Font-face correctly, then this is not covered.\r\n\r\nWe're collaborating with
    a web company on a font-license scheme which will allow fonts to be linked to
    a website easily and painlessly. It should be launched very soon."
  created: '2009-05-12 20:53:05'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">secure web embedding\r\n\r\nsorry but that's an oxymoron :-( "
  created: '2009-05-12 20:58:46'
- author:
    name: Gus Winterbottom
  body: 'There''s a PDF embedding topic I''d like to see addressed, although there
    aren''t a lot of people in my situation. We submit new business proposals to various
    government agencies in response to RFPs, BAAs, etc., and the agency always wants
    a PDF in addition to the hard copies and Word files. The PDF isn''t public in
    the sense that it''s included in a product we sell to the general public, or posted
    on a web site, but it''s hard to see it as workflow or internal distribution.
    What kind of a license do I need? Is the regular license OK, or do I have to buy
    an embedding license? '
  created: '2009-05-12 21:19:49'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "sIRF is a secure font embedding tool. Technically almost all fonts should
    be allowed to be used with it (I've personally not come across any EULA's that
    forbid flash embedding).\r\n\r\nFont-face and cufon are not 100% secure. I'm interested
    in a list that allows for these in their EULA's because cufon is like 100000000000x
    easier to set up than sIRF.\r\n\r\nCufon is not flash, just to clarify."
  created: '2009-05-12 21:35:46'
- author:
    name: Tim Brown
    picture: 110622
  body: "Cross-posted:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/57934\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/56316\r\n\r\nDo
    these threads intend to produce something different than Ralf's wiki page?\r\nhttp://www.webfonts.info/wiki/index.php?title=Fonts_available_for_%40font-face_embedding\r\n\r\n...
    if not, and for the sake of community participation, perhaps that could be used
    as a starting point for a Typophile wiki page.\r\n\r\nIf the only difference between
    the list we're trying to assemble here and the list Ralf has begun is that we're
    attempting to cross-index licensing nuances with web technologies like sIFR, Cuf\xF3n,
    and FLIR, I don't think it's worth the time. @font-face is ready to go. Focus
    on that list."
  created: '2009-05-12 22:03:47'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "<cite>\u2026 if not, and for the sake of community participation, perhaps
    that could be used as a starting point for a Typophile wiki page.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    think this is exactly what we would like to see happen, that list is exactly the
    kind of resource I had in mind.\r\n\r\nRalf: Would you have any objections to
    using your current list as a starting point for a Typophile Wiki page? If so,
    it would be ideal if you authored it (not to create more work for you) :)"
  created: '2009-05-12 22:31:59'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>_ Time to change the licensing model: sell fonts to designers and web
    hosts and not to every single reader/device owner.</cite>\r\n\r\nJoe, I couldn't
    agree more. I think graphic designers and type designers need to become best friends.
    Together both groups can go much further as allies than as adversaries.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-12 23:03:34'
- author:
    name: viko
    picture: 111740
  body: Gus, we also allow for general pdf embedding, even if it's not strictly workflow
    related. We only ask the client for a special license in case the pdf (or similar)
    is sold as a commercial product.
  created: '2009-05-12 23:37:48'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: James, thanks for saying so. Designers need a licensing model that puts the
    font control (and the font licensing) in the hands of the brands and the designers/agencies
    who are creating and managing the brands. I'll say more when I can come up for
    air... Back to pitch land.
  created: '2009-05-13 00:56:35'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Sii is correct...using the term 'secure' in the EULA is only going to add
    confusion. \r\n\r\nIf it's on a web page viewable on my machine then I already
    have the files on my machine in some digital form already. \r\n\r\nAs much as
    I'd like to see a license that merely stated 'you can use this in digital file'
    or 'you can't use this in digital files', unfortunately, it seems like we need
    to create a matrix to fully compare all these options:\r\n\r\n - PDF\r\n - Cufon
    \r\n - @font-face\r\n - Flash\r\n - others? (Silverlight? SVG? Etc...)\r\n\r\nAnd
    then those that refer to 'secure' of any of the above would need a superscripted
    reference with small print defining what they actually mean by the term.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-13 03:04:49'
- author:
    name: billdavis
    picture: 109965
  body: 'Another layer of potential complexity for web use: documents or applications?
    At Ascender Corp. we consider this an important distinction. We have licensed
    our fonts to a wide variety of websites for use with web-based applications. In
    these apps the fonts reside on the server but are not downloaded to the client.
    In the case of @font-face (web fonts), Cufon, Flash, Silverlight, etc. the font
    files are downloaded to the client as part of the document (albeit temporarily
    in most cases). So my point here is that web-based applications should also be
    added to Tiffany''s new chart :)'
  created: '2009-05-13 04:44:16'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"In these apps the fonts reside on the server but are not downloaded to
    the client\"\r\n\r\nSo they are images? Just outlines? \r\n\r\n\"So my point here
    is that web-based applications should also be added\"\r\n\r\nTrue, but that's
    another vague term like 'secure'. I can make a web application that uses sIFR,
    for instance. "
  created: '2009-05-13 04:51:19'
- author:
    name: Dan B.
    picture: 114033
  body: "If we're still having a go at this thread, I'll mention [[http://www.processtypefoundry.com/|Process
    Type Foundry]]. I licensed Bryant from them and asked if I could embed it with
    sIFR. Their answer:\r\n\r\n\"If you are to follow the advice that Andy linked
    to about protecting the files/font, then you should be within the bounds of our
    EULA and we would have no issue with that usage.\" [[http://typophile.com/node/54417|Link]]\r\n\r\nThe
    advice they were referring to is [[http://wiki.novemberborn.net/sifr/Protecting+Commercial+Fonts|this]]."
  created: '2009-05-13 06:46:34'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Tiffany, we'll discuss this today at the Typophile meeting. It may be possible
    to write a table into a Wiki page for the community to edit.
  created: '2009-05-13 18:42:00'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Any embedding permissions chart will be pretty massive... a few of the potential
    options just for PDF...\r\n\r\nPDF Embedding \r\n- Basics\r\n-- No PDF embedding
    allowed\r\n-- Print & preview only\r\n-- Editable okay (forms)\r\n-- Must subset\r\n--
    Must encrypt\r\n-- Must password protect \r\n- Distribution of PDF including the
    fonts\r\n-- Workflow only distribtion (to service providers like printers, proofreaders)\r\n--
    Limited organizational distribution (within organizations)\r\n-- Limited geographical
    distribution (within a specific worksite)\r\n-- Extended distribution (eg. distribution
    via email)\r\n-- Unlimited distribution (ie posted to Web)\r\n-- Commercial distribution
    (ebooks)\r\n\r\nFor each of these the answer for any given vendor will be yes/no/requires
    extended license\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-13 19:32:41'
- author:
    name: aaronbell
    picture: 117132
  body: "As far as I understand, this is the base differences between the different
    methods of using fonts on the web (besides PDF)\r\n\r\nProviding some protection
    against download is the big advantage of flash (and probably silverlight) implementations
    of fonts for web usage. Cufon re-encodes the file and *can* secure it to a domain,
    but enterprising folk could reverse engineer it to get the font back much easier
    than they could with flash. fLIR or facelift, uses PHP to create an image with
    the font in it, but that font has to exist somewhere on the server and could also
    be reverse-engineered. @font-face, in its current form, provides little to no
    protection. \r\n\r\n<em>Another layer of potential complexity for web use: documents
    or applications? At Ascender Corp. we consider this an important distinction.
    We have licensed our fonts to a wide variety of websites for use with web-based
    applications. In these apps the fonts reside on the server but are not downloaded
    to the client. In the case of @font-face (web fonts), Cufon, Flash, Silverlight,
    etc. the font files are downloaded to the client as part of the document (albeit
    temporarily in most cases). So my point here is that web-based applications should
    also be added to Tiffany\u2019s new chart :)</em>\r\n\r\n@billdavis > I don't
    really understand what you mean here. When you access anything on the web, it
    is temporarily downloaded to your computer and the browser renders it (resulting
    in the happy IE issues). Can you provide an example of where font files are on
    the server and not downloaded?"
  created: '2009-05-13 19:37:37'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">When you access anything on the web, it is temporarily downloaded to your
    computer and the browser renders it (resulting in the happy IE issues). Can you
    provide an example of where font files are on the server and not downloaded?\r\n\r\nFont
    foundry \"type tester\" applications would be one area most of us are familiar
    with, another might be Google maps - text is rendered on the server and the resulting
    bitmap is sent to the browser.   \r\n"
  created: '2009-05-13 20:06:16'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>Ralf: Would you have any objections to using your current list as a
    starting point for a Typophile Wiki page? If so, it would be ideal if you authored
    it (not to create more work for you) :)</cite>\r\n\r\nIt's probably not a good
    idea to maintain two separate lists, though if you want to use the content of
    the webfonts.info page, it is all licensed under Creative Commons. So a proper
    attribution of the source would suffice. \r\n\r\nI would be happy to help with
    that, but as far I understand this thread people here are more asking about an
    EULA matrix of possible web uses. But as Simon already pointed out with his PDF
    example, every of those technologies has plenty of options and a simple list or
    matrix would probably not work. \r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>We\u2019re collaborating with
    a web company on a font-license scheme which will allow fonts to be linked to
    a website easily and painlessly.</cite>\r\n\r\nVeronika, can you talk more about
    that or is it confidential at the moment? Sounds like the first foundry with a
    \"webfonts hosting service\" to me. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-13 20:19:23'
- author:
    name: aaronbell
    picture: 117132
  body: "> <em>Font foundry \u201Ctype tester\u201D applications would be one area
    most of us are familiar with, another might be Google maps - text is rendered
    on the server and the resulting bitmap is sent to the browser.</em>\r\n\r\nAh,
    that makes sense. I guess that is similar to how the faceList software works &#8212;
    creating an image based on a font file."
  created: '2009-05-13 20:20:54'
- author:
    name: Tim Brown
    picture: 110622
  body: "Cindy Li:\r\n<cite>I wanted to use the lovely font created by House Industries
    but I looked into their llicensing and the font I found cost: $140 from House
    Industries, unfortunately to use it on my site its going to cost me an additional
    $1500 because their licensing doesn\u2019t allow embeding.</cite>\r\n\r\nhttp://cindyli.com/site/comments/font_embedding_and_licensing/\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-13 21:45:47'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Adobe's license allows Flash/sIFR embedding, as I understand it.\r\n\r\n<cite>sIRF
    is a secure font embedding tool.</cite>\r\n\r\nAssuming you mean sIFR, I would
    not say it is \"secure.\" It uses Flash, which has a public spec, and the files
    are accessible, so... the fonts could be pulled out of the SWF files. I would
    however say that sIFR and Flash are \"about as secure as PDF.\" Which may be good
    enough for most font vendors.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-05-13 22:59:14'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "House Industries does allow web embedding, but only with an extended license.
    The published price is $1500 for one font and $7500 for a collection. However,
    they stress that you call and let them know what you're doing to get specific
    pricing. \r\n\r\nThis could be a trend until foundries are comfortable with a
    flat fee for all. Most foundries appreciate phone calls and you'd be surprised
    at the benefits of having a good relationship with any of them."
  created: '2009-05-13 22:59:19'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Most foundries to appreciate phone calls and you\u2019d be surprised at
    the benefits of having a good relationship with any of them.\r\n\r\nAlmost anything
    short of posting the font to the web in raw form can be negotiated, if the price
    is right. \r\n\r\nIf money is no object, or you're willing to take ethically dubious
    short-cuts, then \"custom\" will be the alternative if you want to raw link. \r\n"
  created: '2009-05-13 23:04:56'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: 'Joe: for the lazy people like me coming to this late, can you update your
    initial post with the list, you know, so there actually is a list in here somewhere?
    Thx.'
  created: '2009-05-14 02:09:17'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I have updated the license for Downturn to allow embedding via dynamic Flash
    text, sIFR, Cuf\xF3n, Typeface.js, and direct linking to EOT or OT files. Now
    I just need to design something someone might actually want to use on the web
    and release it under the same license\u2026"
  created: '2009-05-14 20:26:06'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Can we see the EULA? How do you deal with the issue of the font being linked
    to, but prohibit other forms of loose redistribution eg dafont etc.,
  created: '2009-05-14 20:32:18'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Si: <em>Almost anything short of posting the font to the web in raw form
    can be negotiated, if the price is right.</em>\r\n\r\nHeck, if the price is right,
    posting the font to the web in raw form would be fine too. Hence my position on
    all this: I care less about the format and the security model per se than about
    the viability of the associated business model. Which is why most discussion on
    web fonts seems to me to come from the wrong end: it's looking for a magical technical
    solution that will satisfy current business models, rather than asking what kind
    of business models will be possible with the technical developments before us.\r\n\r\nAnd
    'the ugliness of the Web' is pretty insignificant aspect of what we're looking
    at, which is font linking and embedding in live electronic documents, online applications,
    cloud computing, etc. I suspect that foundries, taking an ad hoc approach to online
    technologies -- PDF? Okay. Flash? Okay. sIFR? Okay. -- are going to find it harder
    and harder to establish grounds on which to say 'Not okay!' to future developments."
  created: '2009-05-14 20:35:08'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "@sii: <a href=\"http://dunwichtype.com/index.php?/eulas/dtf-workstation-license/\">Here\u2019s
    a link to the EULA.</a>"
  created: '2009-05-14 20:56:11'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>I have updated the license for Downturn to allow embedding via dynamic
    Flash text, sIFR, Cuf\xF3n, Typeface.js, and direct linking to EOT or OT files.
    </cite>\r\n\r\nNice! But what do you charge for the additional license?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-14 21:18:18'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Nice! But what do you charge for the additional license?</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    same price as any other license. My plan to offer single-server embedding licenses
    at a low price ran into a wall: MyFonts system just isn\u2019t designed for those
    licensing options. I was going to set up my own web store to handle the sales,
    but than I ran into a wall of incorporation and sales tax laws. I\u2019m not making
    enough money to justify hiring a lawyer and an accountant and setting up a new
    online store, so I decided to rewrite the workstation license to allow web embedding."
  created: '2009-05-14 21:43:27'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Might want to define "user" in a way that doesn''t count Web site visitors. '
  created: '2009-05-15 00:34:38'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Good point.
  created: '2009-05-15 00:55:28'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Randy, to my chagrin, <em>the list</em> is yet to emerge. What has emerged
    is lots of discussion of why that list is a pain to create. Lots of whine, no
    cheese. \r\n\r\nStuff like @font-face won't work unless foundries let go of some
    fears.\r\n\r\nPermit me to give you guys a gentle ribbing. Right now font licensing
    so complex that licensors can't just focus on the right typographic solution,
    they have to navigate cumbersome EULAs and nuanced embedding permissions. (Foundry
    A has these flavors, Foundry B has these other flavors.)\r\n\r\nConsider how the
    iTunes music store made it easier to <del>buy</del> license music than to download
    it illicitly. Seriously. Win, win. Yes, music is still downloaded and shared illicitly,
    but the default is that it's just easier to buy it. This is an analogy, and not
    a perfect one, but I think it has merit. Companies that make it easy (and have
    quality type) will win -- that's why I was motivated to start the list. \r\n\r\nThe
    complexity is the foundries' problem to solve, not your customers'."
  created: '2009-05-15 06:25:38'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Joe - Your requests are reasonable, and I know there are many foundries who
    want to move forward with some sort of web licensing. But in comparing fonts to
    music remember that iTunes was created and negotiated by a multi-million dollar
    company with a device and incentive to make the music store happen. There is no
    single company or cooperative organization in the font world to compare with that.
    Font manufacturers and their resources are small. The technology and systems for
    web fonts and licensing will simply come slower.
  created: '2009-05-15 09:06:57'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "@joe - good points and as a customer i agree with them.\r\n\r\n@stephen -
    also good points and as a customer i understand.\r\n\r\n:-)"
  created: '2009-05-15 09:25:42'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Good point Stephen. It's analogous but you're right that we shouldn't expect
    to unfold the same way, or as easily.\r\n\r\nRe-reading my comment about whining
    sounds harsh. I'm sorry if I came across as an antagonist.\r\n\r\nI've been sitting
    on a draft of some larger thoughts on this topic, blogged on my Typophile blog
    that were spurred when I saw the beautiful New York Times Reader app. It's web
    content, but it avoids a lot of these embedding/licensing issues because a) it's
    a desktop app and b) it's their font to do whatever they want.\r\n\r\n\"Digital
    Branding Demands Custom Typography\" http://www.typophile.com/node/58030\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-15 09:38:04'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "We will be allowing Web Linking (@font-face) soon! Cufon is against the terms
    of our existing EULA and will remain so. Use on our fonts by unlicensed users
    is prohibited by trademark and copyright laws and we will enforce them where possible.
    SiFR will be part of our permissions. Flash is not a separate thing.  \r\n\r\nSii:
    \"Any embedding permissions chart will be pretty massive...\"\r\nHow big is your
    Permissions Table, fella? We have even wider needs than MS, as you can imagine,
    so it's complex, but its doable...and we don't think anyone cares how big it is.
    All permissions being covered by a single Embedding & Linking User Addendum in
    our license is a problem to, but doable. I bet our Addendum's longer than yours,
    because again, we don't care how long it is. \r\n\r\nJoe: \"...the beautiful New
    York Times Reader...It\u2019s web content...\"\r\nIt works, I believe, because
    it is not web content, if I take your context correctly. \r\n\r\nJohn: \"PDF?
    Okay. Flash? Okay. sIFR? Okay\"\r\nIf: a. it embeds, truly, there is no font file,
    just a file, b. it never unpacks a font 'in front of' the user, nor leaves fonts
    around, c. it subsets by document requirement, d. it leaves most of the intellectual
    property where the file was authored, \r\n\r\nThen: Okay.  (Cufon aims to short-circuit
    this to some extent. As I study it, it gets uglier.)\r\n\r\nIf: a. it can't agree
    what format it wants, b. it can't agree how it's going to install/manage these
    formats, c. it can't agree on how to interpret, scale or render, d. it can't agree
    on how to move towards agreement, \r\n\r\nThen: well, okay. We, the font industry
    will let go of our fears, (whatever that means). \r\n\r\nJohn: \"Asking what kind
    of business models will be possible with the technical developments before us.\"\r\n\r\nThis
    is exactly what we've done/been doing @FB. But...we had to go looking for a \"magical
    technical solution\" because of the one presented to us when @font-face's \"magical
    recommendations\" started being followed. We've chosen an optional OT table to
    spare you-all the drama of revising a required OT table.\r\n\r\nThough music is
    a fine analogy to fonts when music is distributed by the instrument (in which
    case there is a totally different use to the software), I'd suggest maybe reading
    up on Drivers Licenses. They don't actually \"do anything\" either, just like
    our Permissions Table and our Embedding & Linking User's Addendum. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-05-15 15:28:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My god, something might actually happen with this? Grrrrreat;-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-05-19 19:19:03'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Thanks for your thoughtful response and for the window into [[Font Bureau]]'s
    approach.\r\n\r\n<strong>The web \u2260 The browser</strong>\r\n\r\nI say it's
    \"web content\" because it's content served from a web server, viewed by a client
    application on a remote machine. The NYTimes Reader that is a Flash application
    built on Adobe's AIR platform and the fonts are embedded in the app, not installed
    on the desktop or the OS level. But I wouldn't limit web content to mean stuff
    that's viewed in a browser.\r\n\r\nThe Xbox, iPhone,  PS3, Wii, Chumby, G1, Blackberry,
    etc, etc, are all delivering web content to people, sometimes in browsers on those
    devices, but most often not delivered through a browser. Where will the fonts
    live? Will they live at the OS level of the device or will they live in the apps
    or widgets users download? That's the horizon to solve for.\r\n\r\niPhone apps
    and Safari for iPhone both deliver web-based content. The former uses fonts embedded
    in the apps, the latter requires fonts installed at the iPhone OS level."
  created: '2009-05-19 21:29:17'
- author:
    name: fonthead
    picture: 116475
  body: "I have just updated the <a href=\"http://www.fonthead.com/license\">Fonthead
    license agreement</a> with fairly loose licensing. My thanks the James Puckett
    and his EULA. I see you took the MyFonts EULA and modified. I essentially just
    did the same thing and tried to delineate between PDF, web and application embedding.
    Here's the gist of it:\r\n\r\n4a. Adobe Portable Document Format (\"PDF\") Embedding\r\nYou
    may embed the licensed fonts into any read-only PDF you send to third parties.
    Such documents may only be viewable and printable (but not editable) by the recipients.\r\n\r\n4b.
    HTML Web Page Embedding \r\nYou may embed the licensed fonts into HTML web pages
    for the purpose of typesetting the page using any of the following methods and
    technologies: @font-face Cascading Style Sheet (\"CSS\") rules, Adobe Flash files,
    Microsoft Silverlight files, sIFR, fLIR, Cuf\xF3n and Typeface.js. Other technologies
    not listed here that would allow a designer to typeset web pages using the licensed
    fonts are allowed providing that the licensed fonts themselves are not obviously
    downloadable and reasonably hidden from average users\r\n\r\n4c. Application and
    Game Embedding\r\nYou may embed the licensed fonts into any application or game
    displayed through a computing device with the following caveat:\r\nIf the application
    allows end-users to render custom typographic design or content using the licensed
    fonts for the purpose of creating a customized design, you must purchase a 15-device
    license. For example, your website allows visitors to typeset a t-shirt or bumper
    stickers or promotional items using the licensed fonts.\r\n\r\n------\r\n\r\nI
    look at my license more in the sense that it is for conscientious people who desire
    to do what is right. I'd rather err on giving too much away. My fonts are pretty
    low-grade compared to likes of many of you, so I guess I have less to protect.
    I see less restrictive licensing as a way to build more business as it leaves
    a wider door open.\r\n\r\nMy 2 cents. Whatever they are worth!\r\n\r\nEthan Dunham"
  created: '2009-05-19 21:42:52'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "And the snowball gathers mass! \r\n\r\n@ethan: I like that you simplified
    things so much. I will probably do something similar with the next revision of
    my license. Your application and game embedding license is also interesting\u2014since
    you already run your own store, why not sell embedding licenses specifically? "
  created: '2009-05-19 21:53:51'
- author:
    name: fonthead
    picture: 116475
  body: "@James: I try very hard to keep things simple. That's why I don't have multiple
    licensing options. It is like Apple's approach. The fewer the options the less
    confusing it is and an easier purchase. \r\n\r\nAnd after selling fonts for 14
    years, I guess I finally decided to cover all my bases in the license itself.
    I answer a lot of emails asking for clarification about what someone can and cannot
    do. It ended up being significantly longer than my older one, but seems more complete.\r\n\r\nEthan"
  created: '2009-05-20 03:06:16'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "Started a wiki page for foundries supporting @font-face:\r\nhttp://webfonts.info/wiki/index.php?title=Commercial_foundries_which_allow_%40font-face_embedding\r\n\r\nLet
    me know if there are more. "
  created: '2009-05-20 11:23:09'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Ethan 4a seems rather narrow compared to the other broad rights you provide.
    I particularly like 4c which would let me ship one of your fonts to a billion
    Office customers for the price of a 15 device license :-) but back to 4a - how
    about PDFs posted to the Web? '
  created: '2009-05-20 14:53:58'
- author:
    name: Michael Jarboe
  body: As soon as I have a chance to get in and edit our EULA we will support @font-face.
    Plan to loosen things up as soon as possible, I'm tracking this post so I'll chime
    in when I get it revised.
  created: '2009-05-20 16:38:54'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Joe><strong>The web \u2260 The browser</strong>\r\n\r\nPerhaps more specifically
    in your native weight;>\r\n<strong> HTML/CSS+UA \u2260  ??ML/?+UA \u2260  Air/Bravo+UA.</strong>\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-05-21 02:31:31'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Fine. You win. I'll take my toys, my geeky talk and go home.
  created: '2009-05-21 04:06:51'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Tal Leming's suggestion for web font embedding permission is both simple
    and sensible:\r\n\r\nhttp://talleming.com/2009/04/21/web-fonts/\r\n\r\nThe only
    thing lacking, from that proposal and from much of the discussion of web fonts,
    is a clear statement of what is meant by \u2018web embedding\u2019. The variety
    of different file types being served over the Internet -- some document-like,
    some application-like -- really demands some clear statement about what permission
    to embed/link a font for the web actually means. What is permitted by the permit?"
  created: '2009-05-21 05:51:54'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Joe, I'm not trying to win, but to expose the discussion to the actual specifics.
    \r\nEveryone is asking for this, and I am trying to oblige to the best of my knowledge.\r\n\r\nAs
    John says, a clear statement of what is meant by \u2018web embedding\u2019 is
    critical. \r\n\r\n>What is permitted by the permit?\r\n\r\nThis is exactly (though
    not only) what the permission table is being designed to do. \r\n\r\n>Tal Leming\u2019s
    suggestion: Tal says in his post, \"One simple change to the OpenType spec, that's
    all there is too it!\" \r\nTal's proposal  calls for a rev to all fonts (agreed!),
    all browsers (a year at least?), the OT spec (a year?), and the OFF spec (2 years
    from now?)... Even if it all happened this summer, it is hardy 'a' simple change.
    \r\n\r\nOur proposal is simpler, forward thinking and self-rev-contained within
    our industry.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-21 11:55:00'
- author:
    name: fonthead
    picture: 116475
  body: '@sil Wow, excellent insight. Definitely need to reword my application section.
    As for PDFs, what difference would the distribution make? I assume that most PDFs
    are downloaded from websites, no?'
  created: '2009-05-21 12:00:08'
- author:
    name: fonthead
    picture: 116475
  body: "I reworked part of the embedding text. I think I was trying to lay out too
    much scope without knowing the particulars of someone's intentions. Since I've
    only licensed for application embedding a few times, I think adding a permissions
    statement is enough and allows me to judge on a case by case basis.\r\n\r\nI appreciate
    the thoughts, everyone.\r\n\r\n4b. HTML Web Page Embedding \r\nYou may embed the
    licensed fonts into HTML web pages only for the purpose of typesetting the page
    using any of the following methods and technologies: @font-face Cascading Style
    Sheet (\"CSS\") rules, Adobe Flash files, Microsoft Silverlight files, sIFR, fLIR,
    Cuf\xF3n and Typeface.js. Other technologies not listed here that would allow
    a designer to typeset web pages using the licensed fonts are allowed. The licensed
    fonts must not be obviously downloadable and must be reasonably hidden from average
    users with whatever web page embedding method you employ.\r\n\r\n4c. Application
    and Game Embedding\r\nYou may embed the licensed fonts into a computer application
    or game only with the written permission of Fonthead Design Inc. Additional licensing
    fees may apply."
  created: '2009-05-21 12:59:54'
- author:
    name: Michael Jarboe
  body: Okay you can add us to the list if you'd so desire, appreciate it. A like
    the idea of being aligned with a new protocol for this digital age were living
    in.
  created: '2009-05-21 19:40:19'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Fonthead, I very much admire you taking the bull by the horns for your users.
    \r\n\r\n>The licensed fonts must not be obviously downloadable and must be reasonably
    hidden from average users with whatever web page embedding method you employ.\r\n\r\nThe
    first part is impossible, I think. . . @font-face means : the font file is linked
    by url in the CSS, the url says where the font is, the font is downloaded and
    installed from the server to the user's cpu. @font-face demands that the files
    at the end of the url <em>be downloadable</em>. There is no embedding of the font
    'in' anything.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-05-21 23:04:57'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "I am actually really bothered by the term \"embedding\" as it is a typically
    used for this topic.\r\n\r\nWhen font data is included in a file -- as it is often
    in a PDF or Flash file -- it is embedded. The font data moves with the file, is
    copied, transmitted etc.\r\n\r\nWhen a font reference is made in a document, as
    with @font-face, there is no embedding (IMO). An HTML document (for example) has
    an instruction that says, \"Go get the font from this place\". The font is retrieved
    and used as needed. The font might end up stored or cached as a result of this,
    but that isn't the essence of the process.\r\n\r\nUsing this word, \"embedding,\"
    is, I think, causing some confusion about different methods, and conflates PDF
    or Flash font embedding with web font serving, which to me are completely different.
    Many foundries don't mind font data being <em>embedded</em> in a PDF, because
    it is (usually) deconstructed, obscured, and somewhat protected, but having a
    font file sitting exposed on a server for all to take is alarming. From the perspective
    of a EULA, it's probably going to be treated quite separately.\r\n\r\nTal observes
    that most designers see font embedding bits as applying to PDFs, which sounds
    right to me -- but he misses the point that the reason they don't think the embedding
    bit applies to \"web embedding\" is because, I think, \"web embedding\" really
    isn't embedding.\r\n\r\nWhat we are really talking about is font <em>serving</em>
    (or is there a better word?). Foundries want a way to serve fonts to web browsers
    and other clients which doesn't make those fonts easy to steal.\r\n\r\nI understand
    it's just a word, and many people understand the difference, but I think it's
    confusing for other people and might be corrupting the discussion to some degree."
  created: '2009-05-22 00:20:31'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Christopher, I agree wholeheartedly: the terminology is a real problem. These
    comments from Bert Bos (W3C) to the ATypI list may be helpful:\r\n\r\n<em>A characteristic
    of embedding is that the font is as much associated \r\nwith the document as the
    document with the font: when you have one, you \r\nautomatically have the other,
    because they are just one file.\r\n\r\nA characteristic of linking as we use it
    on the Web is that it is \r\nunidirectional: the document links to the style sheet,
    but given just \r\nthe style sheet you don't know what document uses it.\r\n\r\nThat
    is a very powerful feature: you can use the style sheet from \r\nanywhere on the
    Web and in as many documents as you like, without ever \r\nhaving to change or
    copy the style sheet. But such unlimited re-use is \r\nprobably not compatible
    with the typical licenses for embeddable fonts.\r\n\r\nSo we either need to change
    the licensing model for fonts (not something \r\nI expect to happen soon), invent
    a way to put a font file inside an \r\nHTML file (not easy), or create bi-directional
    links. In my mind, the \r\nlatter is as good as putting the document and the font
    in one file; \r\nbetter in some respects, because for many uses of the document
    you \r\ndon't need the font and thus have a smaller file to deal with.</em>"
  created: '2009-05-22 02:22:45'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Christopher brings up another excellent point. @font-face isn't embedding
    any more than an img tag is embedding.\r\n\r\nThe confusion continues...\r\n\r\n\"Foundries
    want a way to serve fonts to web browsers and other clients which doesn\u2019t
    make those fonts easy to steal.\"\r\n\r\nAnd therein lies the potential problem.
    If I understand dberlow's proposal (and other similar ones) there will end up
    being a mild form of DRM in the font that says \"this particular font file can
    or can't be 'served' via an @font-face request\". If that is correct (dberlow
    or anyone else please correct me if I am wrong) we are then assuming that:\r\n
    \r\n - all HTML rendering software is going to be updated to obey said bit flag\r\n
    - no one will write a browser add-on to circumvent said bit flag\r\n - no one
    will create yet-another-open source browser that ignores it\r\n - and I'm sure
    a few other gotchas I haven't thought of.\r\n\r\nSeems like that's a lot to assume. "
  created: '2009-05-22 03:29:51'
- author:
    name: Gus Winterbottom
  body: sIFR looks remarkably similar to this [[http://news.cnet.com/8301-1009_3-10247327-83.html|clickjacking
    exploit]]. Could sIFR become a malware vector?
  created: '2009-05-22 16:07:51'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: sure, sIFR being flash, and dependent on a plugin, could be exploited. Clickjacking,
    as described in that article, is really just exploiting basic layout features
    of HTML and CSS.
  created: '2009-05-22 18:45:56'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Alum.><em>Seems like that\u2019s a lot to assume. </em>\r\nI don't assume
    that any of it. \r\nI never stated your first hyphen, your second depends on the
    first, the third is related to the first wrong assumption as well and that part
    of your post makes me curious as to exactly what you are reading and who wrote
    it. ;)\r\n\r\nThe Permissions table proposal is designed as an Optional OT table,
    to state the permissions allowed between the owner of the font and the licensee.
    There is no DRM demanded or assumed and no other applications will be required
    to rev. for it to accomplish it's intended task. \r\n\r\nThe one assumption the
    strategy of the permission table makes is that <strong>eventually</strong> all
    W3C compliant UAs share <em>one</em> @fontface font format in common. That is
    not the current situation, and probably a good way for the W3C to move this along
    if they can. \r\n\r\nBert via John><em>So we either need to change the licensing
    model for fonts</em>\r\nThis year we plan to </em>add to</em> our licensing model.
    But until every single solitary printer in the world, which needs a font it doesn't
    have in memory, is online to the web, we can't just <em>change</em> the licensing
    model for fonts. :)\r\n\r\n><em>invent a way to put a font file inside an HTML
    file (not easy),</em>\r\nIs anyone even working on it?\r\n\r\n><em>or create bi-directional
    links.</em>\r\nThis will be permitted in said table. Assuming this means the table
    can contain both the url of the font's server one is permitted to link to, and
    the url(s) at which the font is allowed to be displayed.\r\n\r\nWe also believe
    in permitting uni-directional links for the sake of some client types.\r\n\r\nAlum.><em>Christopher
    brings up another excellent point. @font-face isn\u2019t embedding any more than
    an img tag is embedding...The confusion continues...</em>\r\n\r\nI can see that
    for sure. Are you only reading alternating posts? ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-22 20:52:15'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"This will be permitted in said table. Assuming this means the table can
    contain both the url of the font\u2019s server one is permitted to link to, and
    the url(s) at which the font is allowed to be displayed.\"\r\n\r\nAs it is now,
    a browser request a URL from a server, which typically serves back an HTML document.
    That document contains a list of requested assets. @font-face would be one of
    those. It then goes an requests it from the server hosting the asset. Where does
    the permissions table come into play in this scenario? What is 'pinging' that
    table? The browser? The server hosting the web site and font? That's the part
    of the proposal I'm not understanding. \r\n\r\n[EDIT: or is the intent that we'd
    request the typeface via @font-face directly from the type foundry's own servers?]\r\n\r\n\"I
    can see that for sure. Are you only reading alternating posts?\"\r\n\r\nGod damn
    it's hard to keep a civil discussion going with you. I'll try, though. ;)"
  created: '2009-05-22 22:09:05'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>Are you only reading alternating posts? ;)</cite>\r\n\r\nI don't know
    how you managed to slip in your comment before mine. I know I didn't take an hour
    and fifteen minutes writing it!\r\n\r\nAnyhow, thanks for bringing it up. I agree.
    :)"
  created: '2009-05-22 22:47:15'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "> Where does the permissions table come into play in this scenario? \r\n\r\nBefore
    any of what you describe, and only before, so far, and for the foreseeable future.\r\n\r\n>What
    is \u2019pinging\u2019 that table?\r\n\r\nDepends on what services the pinger
    wants to provide. There are no required pings.\r\n\r\nWhat would you like to ping
    it?\r\n\r\n>...or is the intent that we\u2019d request the typeface via @font-face
    directly from the type foundry\u2019s own servers?]\r\n\r\n@font-face directly
    from the type foundry\u2019s own server is intended as one of our least expensive
    licenses. For a previously licensed font for print or pdf embedding or for a font
    new to the user, the simplest user can go to a web site, pay a small fee, and
    get a url to link their css to. The font, in the permissions table, will record
    the domain to which the font becomes an asset, and the url from which the font
    is serve-able. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-05-22 23:13:32'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"What would you like to ping it?\"\r\n\r\nI'm just trying to understand
    what in your proposed system does what. \r\n\r\n\"@font-face directly from the
    type foundry\u2019s own server is intended as one of our least expensive licenses.\"\r\n\r\nAh!
    OK. Well, that makes some sense from a technical standpoint. Thanks for that explanation!"
  created: '2009-05-23 00:03:09'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "\u201C<cite>invent a way to put a font file inside an HTML file (not easy)</cite>\u201D\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s
    a nice and officialy possible idea. You can \u201Cembed\u201D files in HTML with
    <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data:_URI_scheme\">data URI scheme</a>.
    Actually, it\u2019s better to embed them in CSS file, because of chaching and
    redudancy. Here is an example of embeded image in CSS: <a href=\"http://www.websiteoptimization.com/speed/tweak/inline-images/\">link</a>.\r\n\r\nIn
    theory, it should work for font files too (browser support?). So, CSS would look
    like this:\r\n\r\n<code>@font-face {\r\n&#09;font-family: Font_name;\r\n&#09;src:
    url(data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhEAA<em>/*font data\u2026*/</em>OALMAAOazToeHh0tLS/7LZv/0jvb29t/f3/);\r\n}</code>\r\n\r\nFurthermore,
    if combined with <code>unicode-range</code>, font could be scattered in multiple
    parts in CSS file, making it unpossible to manually get the whole font file. Example:\r\n\r\n<code>@font-face
    {\r\n&#09;font-family: Font_name;\r\n&#09;src: url(data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhEAA<em>/*font
    data\u2026*/</em>OALMAAOazToeHh0tLS/7LZv/0jvb29t/f3/);\r\n&#09;unicode-range:
    U+00<strong>0?</strong>;\r\n}</code>\r\n\r\n<code>@font-face {\r\n&#09;font-family:
    Font_name;\r\n&#09;src: url(data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhEAA<em>/*font data\u2026*/</em>OALMAAOazToeHh0tLS/7LZv/0jvb29t/f3/);\r\n&#09;unicode-range:
    U+00<strong>1?</strong>;\r\n&#09;/* etc \u2026 unicode ranges for all characters
    */\r\n}</code>\r\n\r\nGood side of this is a mild DRM protection. It\u2019s something
    like fonts in Flash, but just a <em>little</em> less protected.\r\n\r\nBad side
    is additional work for web designer. In best case, an program has to be used with
    input of font file and an output of text (wich is then copied in CSS file). There
    is also a little more time to download the whole thing and just a little more
    time for browser to compute everything."
  created: '2009-05-23 13:01:10'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "another for the list: SMeltery as stated here: http://www.smeltery.net/SMFFEULA.html\r\n\r\n<cite>SMELTERY
    FREE FONT END USER LICENSE AGREEMENT\r\n<cite>SMFF EULA version 1.2, november
    2008\r\n\r\n<cite>Embedding this font in a PDF document is allowed.\r\n\r\n<cite>Embedding
    this font in a web page with a @font-face declaration is allowed once you credit
    SMeltery with a link somewhere on your site.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-24 08:13:46'
- author:
    name: jdaggett
  body: "One thing to keep in mind when considering different forms of font obfuscation
    is that the 'name' table of a downloaded font is effectively ignored when loaded
    via an @font-face rule, since a downloadable font needs to be private to the document
    in which it's used.  The font-family descriptor name in the @font-face definition
    is the name used to group together a set of faces.  So for web-only fonts, it
    would work just fine to ship fonts with <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GUID\">GUID's</a>
    for the family name of each face along with sample @font-face definitions for
    inclusion in stylesheets.  Anyone attempting to use the font as a desktop font
    will see very funky entries in their font menu.\r\n\r\n@miha: Data URI's work
    fine but they're not terribly efficient, the font will always be downloaded whether
    it's used or not.  If you're setting up a site-wide stylesheet that won't scale
    very well.  Using unicode-range per-glyph will break kerning.\r\n\r\n[Note: data
    URL's could also be used to write a TT/OT font editor in Javascript!]"
  created: '2009-05-26 06:42:37'
- author:
    name: ilynam
    picture: 111282
  body: "Wordshape typefaces are licensable for siFr and @font-face.\r\nhttp://wordshape.com"
  created: '2009-06-01 12:12:52'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.linotype.com/2061-28225/licenseagreementforfontsoftwarendashlinotypeeula.html\">Lino/Mino/ITC
    has a new EULA</a> that allows EOT use, but only with non-commercial web sites.
    I guess that you\u2019re supposed to contact someone over there to work out an
    agreement to do it for commercial embedding, but nobody seems to have explained
    that yet."
  created: '2009-06-02 15:25:45'
- author:
    name: aaronbell
    picture: 117132
  body: 'Well, that is an interesting update. I guess that means that they''re not
    supporting the new Typekit system and rather favoring EOT. '
  created: '2009-06-02 16:37:04'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Apparently \u201Cnon-commercial\u201D in the Lino/Mono/ITC license would
    actually allow used on most of the web. <a href=\"http://typegirl.tumblr.com/post/116950331/update-non-commercial-font-embedding\">Allan
    Haley expains by way of Typegirl:</a>\r\n\r\nMonotype Imaging has three types
    of commercial use categories: Web site content, commercial product and commercial
    use. These use categories cover the use of fonts in EOT as well as other font
    formats. Business models are being finalized to support each category.\r\nCommercial
    Web site content: Commercial Web site content use covers the use of EOT fonts
    on the Web site of a commercial enterprise. The Web site cannot charge for the
    content that is displayed in the EOT font or allow the user to interact with the
    font (content displayed in the EOT font can be read and printed only) to fit into
    the commercial Web site use category.\r\nCommercial Product: Commercial product
    use covers the inclusion of fonts in any format in a product that is sold. Games
    and e-books that ship with a font are examples of commercial product use. Commercial
    product use also covers the display of content on a Web site that a user must
    pay for in order to access. An example is an online magazine such as ConsumerReports.org.\r\nCommercial
    Use: The commercial use category covers scenarios where users can interact with
    fonts that are embedded within a document or application that is stored on a server.
    This category includes companies selling products that are created with hosted
    fonts such as a Web site that allows users to interact with a font to create a
    custom greeting card. It also includes application service provider (ASP) and
    software as a service (SAAS) companies such as Web sites that allows users to
    interact with fonts to create a document that can be shared.\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-02 21:45:38'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'Unless Firefox adopts EOT, I don''t think too many web developers will be
    jumping on board with Linotype anytime soon. '
  created: '2009-06-02 22:02:49'
- author:
    name: aaronbell
    picture: 117132
  body: "Well, that's the thing. Monotype, Linotype and ITC are pretty big names in
    the industry. In addition, we don't even know who is onboard with typekit (if
    anyone actually is). Usually when one or more big players in an industry do the
    same thing at the same time, it indicates a shift and FF / Safari may end up supporting
    EOT simply because the big players are pushing for it. \r\n\r\nIn any case, it
    will be interesting to see how this plays out now. Will EOT become more widely
    accepted? or just (continued to be) ignored? It all depends on FF & safari at
    this point. "
  created: '2009-06-02 22:29:47'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite> It all depends on FF & safari at this point.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt depends
    on the users! The Adobe EULA also allows EOT linking, but as far as I know, no
    webdesigner was ever interested in such an IE-only solution. So I don't think
    the new Monotype EULA will change anything. I guess they wanted to do something
    about webfonts, but didn't dare to go all the way. (Which is understandably of
    course)"
  created: '2009-06-03 08:07:14'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: I hope all font vendors will support EOT vigorously. :-)
  created: '2009-06-03 09:10:50'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "We will support EOT 'vigorously -  through our permissions table.:-) But...\r\n\r\n
    \    no web designer has proven a site design that can query a UA for the right
    font format to download to that user.\r\n     no browser guild is pressing for
    a single font format to be common among all browsers, even if they have a pet
    format.\r\n     no foundry can serve moderately successful font linking, and only
    a handful of hosting services can be considered.\r\n     no commercial OS's are
    'ready' for low resolution readability, though wysiwyg works just fine, thanks!\r\n\r\nWe
    really wish someone else 'out there' would move along as fast as we are, because
    this is looking like someone else's problems and users are beginning see that.
    :)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-06-03 14:23:32'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nDirect linking of fonts to web pages must happen. Period.\r\nThe
    need has now become pressing.\r\nAnd it will happen whether anyone in the font
    industry likes it or not. (This is just a statement. I'm not an advocate one way
    or the other.)\r\nHowever, it is going to take years for it to unfold and there
    is time to influence its direction to your benefit.\r\n\r\nI read opinions about
    font-linking all the time on forums and come away almost always shaking my head
    at the extent to which the cart is being put before the horse.\r\n\r\nHere's one
    example of what I mean:\r\n\r\nLet's, for arguments sake, assume The Font Bureau
    offers a completely open license for font Caslon FB with regards to web use. If
    you buy it, you can use it without restriction.\r\nA lot of freedom for the money
    right? Well, right now, as a web developer, I would have to pass on the offer.\r\nI
    would have to pass unless you were willing to refund my money if Caslon FB turned
    out to be unusable for the design purpose to which I want to put it. (Which it
    probably will be.)\r\nThe reason is this: Bitmap representations of fonts are
    horribly inaccurate when it comes to assessing how the font will actually look
    when used to present normal HTML text within the browser. In assessing how the
    font will look at different point sizes, it is absoutely useless.\r\nA specimen
    pdf does me absolutely no good in assessing, either.\r\nPlus, your web site only
    offers sample bitmaps in two sizes, 24pt and 36pt which, at best, might give me
    an idea of how the font would look if I were to use it for unusually large headlines
    and unusually large headlines alone.\r\nIn other words, your sales presentation
    is totally geared to print.\r\nI have absolutely no way to assess your product
    for the purpose of web design.\r\n\r\nSo, you can amend your licenses any which
    way you want and you still can't get me as a customer. Not because I'm not interested,
    but because I won't buy a pig in a poke.\r\n(Provided they still keep pigs in
    pokes. If not, substitute another analogy.)\r\n\r\nJokes aside, are you getting
    what I'm telling you?\r\nPotential customers, quite willing to pay, will be driven
    to get samples of your fonts on the darknet just in order to test them. Just to
    see if they work onscreen.\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-03 15:57:20'
- author:
    name: Vlad Levantovsky
    picture: 117231
  body: "I hope some clarifications will help make things clear:\r\n\r\nNon-commercial
    vs. commercial use.\r\nAs Allan Haley already explained, Monotype, Linotype and
    ITC support both commercial and non-commercial uses. Web font embedding for non-commercial
    use comes for free (one just need to buy a font); commercial use will require
    additional license and fee. The vast majority of the websites (such as individual
    blogs, schools, churches, etc.) are non-commercial, and using fonts on these websites
    will not require any additional costs. The commercial use is mentioned in the
    press release, but an emphasis was made on free license for non-commercial use.\r\n\r\nEOT
    adoption\r\nI believe that EOT as a technical solution is an good technology for
    web font embedding; it is the only technology available today that provides reasonable
    level of IP protection for font vendors and is supported by 3/4 of all browsers
    (IE) in use today. This is why new EULA allows EOT font linking. \r\nEOT hasn't
    been widely adopted because until recently there was no public specification that
    would allow to implement it. The reasons that some browser vendors are reluctant
    to support EOT today are mostly non-technical and, among others, are related to
    technology IPR licensing. Monotype wants to see high quality typography and fonts
    on the web and we <em> did </em> go all the way - we joined the W3C, paid our
    dues (literally) and are dedicated to work with all browser and font vendors to
    come up with the technical and IPR licensing solution for web font linking that
    will be widely adopted. I do not support raw font embedding, in my opinion it
    has drawbacks beyond IP protection, which became evident for early adopters (http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-style/2009May/0036.html).\r\nA
    good technical solution (and not just any solution) that is universally supported
    by all browsers will benefit everybody - web designers, font vendors and millions
    of websites and their visitors. Earlier in this thread, iTunes was brought up
    as an example of a successful business model but it is based on sophisticated
    technology that employs a strong DRM protection. EOT is not DRM despite what some
    people want you to believe, but it does have sufficient technical barriers in
    place that prevent \"drive-by\" access to unlicensed font resources, provide reasonable
    protection of font vendors' IP and optimize font data for web use, especially
    on slow connections. Monotype is eager to work with all browser vendors to come
    up with a good solution (and I believe it will happen soon). We are reluctant
    to support a raw font solution that was proposed with no consideration for font
    vendors (http://news.cnet.com/Microsofts-forgotten-monopoly/2010-1032_3-6085417.html)
    and doesn\u2019t satisfy the needs of many web designers and users (http://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/2007/11/web_user_survey_results.html).\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-03 16:18:24'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>The need has now become pressing.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, civilization is
    in grave danger of too much Verdana. Very pressing indeed."
  created: '2009-06-03 16:35:31'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Maybe old news... \"So, there isn\u2019t much new to report on that front
    in Opera 10, but it\u2019s worthy to note the beta does include support for the
    controversial @font-face rule.\"\r\n\r\nVia... http://www.webmonkey.com/blog/Opera_10_Beta_1_Offers_Speed_and_a_New_Interface "
  created: '2009-06-03 19:52:13'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Direct linking of fonts to web pages must happen.\r\n\r\nI think I've made
    clear, that I know this.\r\n\r\n>Potential customers, quite willing to pay, will
    be driven to get samples of your fonts .... Just to see if they work onscreen.\r\n\r\nThat
    is why the combination of Permissions and Recommendations in a single table is
    our starting solution. Without it, we will not be motivated/rewarded to make fonts
    that look good at all sizes and make good typography possible in all uses. \r\n\r\n>A
    specimen pdf does me absolutely no good in assessing, either.\r\n\r\nDo you know,
    Richard, what will work for assessing how the font you choose will look on all
    and any devices, users, and user choices? Do you know what it takes to make a
    font that will pass all such inspections during purchase? \r\n\r\n>the cart is
    being put before the horse.\r\n\r\nThat is why I am driving my own.\r\n\r\n>Monotype
    wants to see high quality typography and fonts on the web and we did go all the
    way\r\n\r\nReally!? Then start at the beginning, not in the middle and explain
    how your plan will help see high quality typography and fonts on the web.\r\n\r\n>Maybe
    old news... \r\nSii, have you seen your Panose monkey? Can't we please have Sota
    and Atypi conferences again for the 4th straight year where we're compelled by
    the sponsors not to talk about meaningful web font issues? It worked for so long,
    what happened?\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-04 11:05:32'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Can\u2019t we please have Sota and Atypi conferences again for the 4th straight
    year ... talk about meaningful web font issues? \r\n\r\nDespite putting this on
    the agenda at both events year after year (starting at TypeCon Boston), and bringing
    the W3C, Opera, Adobe, Apple, Roger Black and other notable players to the table
    to discuss the issue, no one seems very interested in Web fonts. If you want to
    talk about it at ATypI or TypeCon I'm sure the organizers would love to hear from
    you. "
  created: '2009-06-04 15:59:59'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: ">\"Do you know, Richard, what will work for assessing how the font you choose
    will look on all and any devices, users, and user choices? Do you know what it
    takes to make a font that will pass all such inspections during purchase?\" \r\nYeah,
    I do. And I'm not asking for that. I'm not saying you should be held to an impossible
    standard.  Let me narrow it down: I'm looking for a way to see, before I buy,
    how a font renders in a browser as HTML text on a typical LCD screen at the sizes
    that matter most in web design. Those sizes being, roughly, in CSS values: 10px
    to 36px or the equivalent point sizes of 7pt to 27pt. I don't think that's too
    much to ask, is it? I mean, just let me see how it renders in my browser under
    normal circumstances.\r\nOff the top of my head, you can give me that in any one
    of three ways:\r\n1) Show me a specimen page using EOT - as Vlad points out, IE
    still has 70% of the market. It's available on every Windows machine. No web designer
    worth their salt - even if they are Mac users - doesn't keep a Windows machine
    handy for testing.\r\n2) If you don't want to keep it IE specific, for Safari,
    etc... you can link a narrowly subsetted and specially named TTF/OTF file to the
    specimen page. That would be enough for me.\r\n3) Lastly, a specimen page consisting
    of a screen grab from an LCD screen saved as a .bmp file is quick and easy to
    create.(With the <a href=\"http://billhillsblog.blogspot.com/2009/05/confusion-over-screen-resolution-causes.html\">screen
    resolution properly set to match the native resolution of the screen</a>) It's
    not as convincing and authoritative as an actual linked font file, but better
    than nothing. Providing both would be wise.\r\n\r\nUnfortunately, when this is
    done and the bitmap anti-aliased mask is peeled away, the vast majority of fonts
    that look fine in print, or even an E-Paper screen, look like sh-t in a browser
    under usual circumstances. (And this will almost always be true when they are
    compared to the Microsoft Cleartype fonts, which seem to be the gold standard
    at this point.)\r\nBut I'm entitled to know all this before I buy.\r\nAnd once
    the truth is apparent, we can move on to address the reasons why and improve the
    situation. You want money to do the additional hinting? I, for one, don't mind
    paying you for that.\r\n\r\n>\"(EOT) is the only technology available today that
    provides reasonable level of IP protection for font vendors and is supported by
    3/4 of all browsers (IE) in use today.\"\r\n\r\nThis is a fact. If web developers
    don't want to wait another 10-15 years for font-linking, EOT has to be accepted
    and embraced. It is, as they say in military terms, \"a fact on the ground.\"\r\nIf
    the W3C comes along with something similar down the road, fine. Then add support
    for that format, as well. But today, this is what we have to work with.\r\n\r\n@jp\r\nI
    knew when I wrote that line about \"pressing\" , somebody was going to run with
    it - I certainly would have. (Hah!)"
  created: '2009-06-04 16:24:15'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: Touchy.
  created: '2009-06-04 21:53:47'
- author:
    name: Vlad Levantovsky
    picture: 117231
  body: "@dberlow\r\n>Monotype wants to see high quality typography and fonts on the
    web and we did go all the way\r\n\r\n<em>Really!? Then start at the beginning,
    not in the middle and explain how your plan will help see high quality typography
    and fonts on the web.</em>\r\n\r\nI hope you did read the rest of my original
    post. Monotype started by joining W3C and donating our IP and technology for free
    (http://www.w3.org/Submission/2008/01/). \r\nThe fact that some browser vendors
    decided to stick it to Microsoft (http://www.w3.org/Fonts/Misc/minutes-2008-10#summary)
    and throw EOT proposal and font vendors under a bus isn't a good enough reason
    for me to go along and agree to support raw font linking - like I mentioned in
    the previous post this is not a good solution for the web for a number of reasons,
    which has already become evident for early adopters. \r\n\r\nSuccessful web font
    solution needs the following technical components in place:\r\n- it must allow
    direct font linking using @font-face and at the same time prevent unauthorized
    cross-origin requests;\r\n- it should protect font vendors IP (and, at the same
    time, protect web designers who licensed that IP from inadvertently violating
    their licenses);\r\n- it should deliver compressed font data to minimize bandwidth
    consumption, speed up page download and improve user experience at the same time
    and, ideally,\r\n- it should allow font data be streamed so that a browser can
    start processing the page layout without waiting for a complete font download.\r\n\r\nRaw
    font solution doesn't go beyond direct font linking, EOT successfully addresses
    first three points, and the very nature of the MicroType Express compression (separating
    font data into different functional blocks) is an ideal fit for implementing font
    streaming. Work in W3C is not over - it's in the very beginning(see http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-style/2009May/0092.html),
    and developing a new web font solution in W3C will take time - but it's not completely
    out of the question. At the risk of repeating myself, I am reluctant to support
    raw font embedding but I am perfectly willing to spend time and efforts to develop
    a good web font solution for the benefit of all parties involved.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    your skepticism in the outcome of such initiative and your willingness to go along
    and allow your fonts be used in raw format \"as is\" only hampering these efforts
    and delaying the creation of the new W3C web font solution that will be universally
    supported by all browser vendors. I would like to respectfully ask you to reconsider
    your position.\r\n\r\nWith kind regards\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-04 22:42:24'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Vlad >your willingness to go along and allow your fonts be used in raw format
    \u201Cas is\u201D....\r\n\r\n...this is, with all due respect, an incorrect statement
    about my position. No 'as is' works for me or my clients as I have said many times.
    \r\n\r\nIn supporting our position, I've said EOT can easily be one of the formats
    approved for conversion to in our table, in our fonts. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-05 13:01:32'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@vlad\r\nI've been following the @font-face issue for a really long time
    now. It was clear to me from the beginning that the legal issues were at the heart
    of the thing even though those issues were deliberately being kept out of discussions
    held publicly.\r\nI'm glad that charade is over and we are finally telling it
    like it is.\r\nWhen you take into account all of Wium-Lee's public pronouncements
    on this issue it's not unfair to say that a desire to \"stick it to Microsoft\"
    plays a large part.\r\nI've had some back-and-forth with the developers at Mozilla,
    and I've read some of their public correspondence about support for @font-face,
    and I think their view of this is more a philosophical thing. They don't want
    to be seen as IP cops. A commitment to the \"Open Web\", whatever that may mean
    to them.\r\nNow, I think they're being pig-headed and knee-jerk about it, I think
    they're not assessing the issues accurately, but I don't think they are specifically
    looking to stick it to MS.\r\nI can understand your frustration in paying the
    W3C - what is the yearly now - $65,000.00? only to have to Wium-Lee act like he
    knows what he's talking about when he talks about fonts. He doesn't. His doctoral
    thesis was on - big surprise - Cascading Style Sheets. On that subject, I'll take
    him seriously. Not a lot else.\r\nHowever, let's move on. The first chapter in
    this story has already been written. Safari, and soon FireFox and Opera will support
    linking to font-files. Internet Explorer has supported it for many years, only
    they implemented it using a different kind of file format - one that enables you
    to tie the file to the domain name (and local drive letters too, BTW), provides
    compression to reduce the file size and thus download time, and allows for subsetting,
    and is not natively installable as a font file in the operating system.\r\nThe
    \"DRM effect\" of not being able to transplant the file to another domain or install
    it in the operating system is incidental to this approach. There are perfectly
    legitimate reasons for these features that have nothing to do with heavy-handed
    DRM schemes.\r\n\r\nBut please, talking about \"DRM\" is just bad PR and won't
    get you anywhere - IMHO.\r\nTry using some marketing smarts, that will work much
    better.\r\n\r\nMake the fonts you sell for screen use within the browser as well-suited
    for that purpose as possible. Pay attention to sub-setted variations of those
    fonts. Make yourselves the authentic, trustworthy alternative to the \"drive-by\"
    download that may or may not be missing characters, or suffer from other hidden
    problems.\r\n\r\nEverybody succumbs to flattery: marketing directly to web developers
    with fonts for THEM, helpful information for THEM, will help you a lot more than
    flapping EULA's around that are all about YOU, and YOUR rights.\r\n\r\nYou will
    simply be ignored.\r\n\r\nIn a larger sense, start paying attention to browsers
    and how they handle fonts. Why do I have to pre-process a font in Photoshop, or
    render it using a text-replacement technique like Cufon to get a headline with
    the right kerning and smoothing?\r\n\r\nWhy hasn't the font industry, as a whole,
    been more vocal and involved in the development of browser technology? (Hey, maybe
    I'm wrong, but I sure haven't felt any kind of a presence. Some individuals, yes.
    But not spokespersons.)\r\n\r\nIf font-linking leads, as some fear it might, to
    the death of the industry as a viable money-making entity, you should at least
    take part in and try to manage your own demise.\r\n\r\nBut you ain't dead yet.\r\n\r\nEnough.
    For now.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nrich\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-05 16:45:35'
- author:
    name: Vlad Levantovsky
    picture: 117231
  body: "<em>@dberlow\r\n> No \u2019as is\u2019 works for me or my clients as I have
    said many times. \r\n\r\n> In supporting our position, I\u2019ve said EOT can
    easily be one of the formats approved for conversion to in our table, in our fonts.\r\n</em>\r\n\r\nMy
    apologies if my choice of words was ambiguous, by 'as is' I simply meant fonts
    in raw format. I just cannot see how addition of a table that is not recognized
    by any existing application (and not processed by a browser) would make a difference.
    I did try hard to understand what it is that you are proposing, but I just don't
    see how the new permission table is going to change things. Any permissions and
    limitations that you want to express in this new table I can put in plain English
    in the existing \"License Description\" field (see http://www.microsoft.com/typography/otspec/name.htm,
    nameID=13). This information could be used for tracking purposes but I just don't
    see how it will protect your IP. And, because we already have the \"License Description\"
    and \"License Info URL\" fields in a font, I don't see why you believe a new table
    is even necessary.\r\n\r\nNow back to my original point - raw font linking on
    the web is not good for a number of reasons, and by allowing it (if you plan to
    allow it) you may be putting the development of a new solution in jeopardy.\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-05 17:04:19'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: '@dberlow: Where can we read about the technical details of this table you
    mention? Is there a spec?'
  created: '2009-06-05 19:08:49'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Vlad, a lot of people are writing and reading ambiguously. That's why it
    takes so long to craft something clear here.\r\nAre you supporting only unembedded
    Embeddable Open Type font linking on the web with fonts identical in content to
    your print/pdf permitted products?\r\n\r\nRichard the legal issues are not at
    the heart of @font-face, but on one surface out of six. W3C is distracting and
    could be ignored on this issue if not for all those ugly little formats they support
    around the big one that everybody has access to now. With W3C's baby step-only
    approach, a PERM table could stay ahead of that organization for years.\r\n\r\nDave,
    I am designing, through text, tables and diagrams, one surface of a box from which
    the other 5 can be developed as the world needs them. I can tell you ahead of
    the second version in 10 days, that two main areas of this solution; permissions
    and recommendations, contain Bundling, Compressing, Converting, Embedding, Installing,
    Linking, Modifying, Serving, Siting, Subsetting, Transferring, &... 1D Scaling,
    Bolding, Baseline Curving, Decontextualizing, Letter-Spacing, Obliquing, Over
    Scaling, Striking Through, Stroking, Unhinting, Unkerning, and Underscoring, respectively.
    \r\n\r\nEach of these will have conditions after a binary choice and the conditions
    in permissions will be clearly represented and may be echoed in the license. In
    recommendations, standard units, percentages of standard units and ranges of the
    same will be defined for the points, pixels and seconds involved. The definitions
    for each is either found in CSS, or a typographer's dictionary, to be plain.\r\n\r\nIf
    we've left out anything anyone else's print or web clients, or client's clients,
    client's client's clients have asked permission or recommendation for, please
    give give me a direct shout.\r\n\r\nWe are all approximately one Apple white paper
    away from possibility for an open solution that might eventually lead to completeness
    \u2014 aka a long way from last year. :-)\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-05 23:21:16'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: '@dberlow: Thanks for the summary, I look forward to 10 days time :-) I wonder
    if, with your preference for clarity, you''d consider rephrasing "permissions"
    as "restrictions," though.'
  created: '2009-06-06 10:17:27'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Dave, I think we've got to accentuate the positive,  we are not actually
    in the business of restricting anything and permissions are already very popular.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-06-06 11:48:24'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@dberlow\r\n>we are not actually in the business of restricting\r\n\r\nGood.
    Now get rid of the word \"actually\" in that sentence and we've made progress.\r\n\r\nAnybody
    who delivers their work product in digital form cannot demand \"restrictions\".
    You cannot even grant \"permissions\" and enforce them in any meaningful way.\r\n\r\nBut
    you CAN ask politely and if you want to call them \"permissions\", fine. And many
    will abide by your request as long as it not unreasonable and does not impose
    an unreasonable cost.\r\n\r\nStop waving the EULA flag. Web developers will look
    at you like you've got two heads. They will not even comprehend what you're talking
    about.\r\n\"What do you mean I can't..., well, to hell with them\", is what you're
    going to get in response.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-06 14:53:05'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "What is \"waving the EULA flag\"?\r\n\r\nThe EULA is important, and as much
    as people would like to ignore it, they can't. Ignoring the EULA is actually going
    to create demand for more DRM as foundries try to protect their products by other,
    more aggressive means.\r\n\r\nRemember that \"web developers\" are not just a
    bunch of pirates running free on the Internet. Many of them own or work for companies
    which must follow the law if they want to survive and succeed. They want a font
    EULA which lets them do what they need to do, but they are not going to say \"to
    hell with them\". There are even plenty of people who who have no particular business
    interests but are still interested in their EULA and doing the right thing by
    it.\r\n\r\nRichard, I think we're saying similar things, but software developers
    can indeed \"demand restrictions\" with their EULA. The law will back them up
    when necessary. It might be difficult or undesirable to enforce at a micro-level,
    but you can bet that if Nike or Target or the New York Times ignored their font
    EULA on a large scale, it would be enforced in a \"meaningful way\". And I bet
    even \"Bob's Widget Company\" doesn't want to willfully violate the terms of any
    software EULA they have.\r\n\r\nObviously it's in a foundry's interest to create
    a EULA that is easy to understand and has sensible restrictions, but I don't think
    EULAs are going away anytime soon. They are a fundamental part of the digital
    font business, for better or worse."
  created: '2009-06-06 19:33:38'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@christopher\r\nYou sense, rightly, that I'm on YOUR side. If anything is
    deserving of the protection the US constitution empowers Congress to give \"the
    useful arts\", it's fonts.\r\nIt's both knowledge and labor intensive. A craft.\r\nBut
    I'm also a realist. And I'm telling you that you'll get farther faster if you
    adopt a humbler and more market-oriented approach.\r\n(All due respect to Dave
    Berlow, but there's nothing vague about that.)\r\nTry asking, \"Oh, you want to
    use different fonts in your web pages. How can we help?\"\r\nOver the next few
    years, a huge market will open up for screen fonts. And for the first time, many
    people who ordinarily don't know a serif from a hole in the wall will become potential
    customers. For the first time they will have to really think about what font they
    are going to use and where they are going to get it.\r\nLook, nobody wants to
    be reduced to saying, on bended knee, \"Please, mister, please respect the work
    that went into my product and pay me my fee.\" But the Internet has turned copyright
    law upside down on its head and those much more powerful than you or I have been
    put in exactly that position.\r\nLook at what a big help legal bravado was to
    the recording industry.\r\nYou can make demands, but who will comply?\r\n\r\nThanks
    for explaining your position. I've been telling you some things on this thread
    that you don't want to hear, I know. But that's exactly why I'm telling you.\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2009-06-07 15:42:06'
- author:
    name: Vlad Levantovsky
    picture: 117231
  body: "<em>@dberlow\r\n>Are you supporting only unembedded Embeddable Open Type
    font linking on the web with fonts identical in content to your print/pdf permitted
    products?</em>\r\n\r\nI am sorry I am not sure what \u201Cunembedded Embeddable
    OpenType\u201D is. When I say \u201CEmbedded OpenType\u201D I refer to the data
    format that is specified here: http://www.w3.org/Submission/2008/01/. The font
    in EOT format can be directly linked by a webpage using the CSS @font-face.  An
    EOT file can also be linked back to a webpage (or a domain, a local drive, a file,
    etc.) using \u201Croot string\u201D \u2013 sometimes this feature is what people
    refer to when they differentiate \u2018web font linking\u2019 from \u2018web font
    embedding\u2019. The EOT specification doesn\u2019t require this bi-directional
    linking (i.e. a root string can be empty) but our license does make it a requirement.
    \r\nHaving said this, I do understand that the future web font file format will
    be something other than EOT, and that the ability to restrict the use of a font
    resource to a particular webpage or a domain isn\u2019t a new concept for web
    designers (e.g. see sIFR spec http://wiki.novemberborn.net/sifr/Protecting+Commercial+Fonts),
    and can be implemented using different tools such as CORS http://www.w3.org/TR/access-control/.\r\n\r\nTo
    answer the second part of your question \u2013 yes, any font from Monotype, Linotype,
    ITC or Image Club libraries can now be licensed for use on the web in EOT format.
    The fonts you get are exactly the same as you would get if you license them for
    use in print or PDF.\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-08 01:01:57'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "@richard> Now get rid of the word \u201Cactually\u201D in that sentence and
    we\u2019ve made progress.\r\n\r\nNo actually, now that 'permissions' is a word
    okay with you, we can make progress. \r\n\r\n>\u201COh, you want to use different
    fonts in your web pages. How can we help?\u201D\r\n\r\nExactly, and this never
    will happen without recommendations built-in. One thing I don't think anyone's
    gonna argue with, is that the W3C opened the doors to the largest school of typography
    in history. \r\n\r\n@Vlad>I am sorry I am not sure what \u201Cunembedded Embeddable
    OpenType\u201D is.\r\n\r\nWe here consider 'to embed' and 'to link' to be nearly
    opposite actions with regards to digital data. \r\n\r\n>The fonts you get are
    exactly the same as you would get if you license them for use in print or PDF.\r\n\r\nNo
    founders that I have spoken to are going to allow this. It precludes the fundamental
    course we have all taken that says our print and PDF licensed fonts are not linkable,
    ever, according to the terms under which they were licensed. \r\n\r\nThus, the
    need for marks in the font to allow other things. And the need for more information
    in fonts as to their best uses, recommendations, might not look like a big deal
    here, but 'out there' it is huge. What few people here consider, for example,
    is that all the 'web fonts' to date, have been 'cherry-picked' from 'all time'
    to yield a set of practically indestructible choices. That's all about to end.\r\n\r\nBack@Richard>...Bitmap
    representations of fonts are horribly inaccurate when it comes to assessing how
    the font will actually look when used to present normal HTML text within the browser.\r\n\r\nActually
    look? Look \u2014 for the first time in history licensees can see exactly what
    a font will look like on *their screen* before they license to link to it. Presenting
    a specimen, and allowing the user to see actual @ff results is easy. But still
    and forever, the shopping user can only make informed decisions about their own
    view. Assessing how the font will actually look when used to present 'normal HTML
    text' within ANY browser by ANY user employing ANY machine... how? \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-08 13:37:18'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@david\r\n\r\n>We are all approximately one Apple white paper away from\r\n>possibility
    for an open solution that might eventually\r\n>lead to completeness \u2014 aka
    a long way from last year. :-)\r\n\r\nWhat do you mean? Talk to me.\r\n\r\n>Assessing
    how the font will actually look when used to\r\n>present \u2019normal HTML text\u2019
    within ANY browser by ANY user\r\n>employing ANY machine... how? \r\n\r\nI'm working
    on an article about this complete with real-world examples. Title: How To Lose
    Money On Screen Fonts\r\nMaybe it will shed some light. I'll get word to you as
    soon as it's posted.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-08 15:11:16'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "<em>4.b.III. Cufon\r\n\r\nNo additional license is required. Security: you
    MUST restrict usage (via the Security setting) to one SINGLE domain. You may not
    reduce the Units Per Em (UPM) quality of the fonts generated by Cufon below 360
    UPM</em>\r\n\r\nCourtesy of exljbris and Jos, the adventurer :-)\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-15 21:38:26'
- author:
    name: Marisol83
    picture: 124575
  body: "thank you for the the terminal design link! I have a little crisis right
    now so it may freshen up my mind.\r\nand graphic and type designers are better
    to work together -  i agree"
  created: '2012-04-13 08:26:00'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: '...'
  created: '2012-08-03 19:26:26'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: '...'
  created: '2012-08-03 19:28:11'
date: '2009-05-12 19:46:29'
title: Web Embedding Allowed

---
