---
author:
  name: Miss Tiffany
  picture: 110563
body: After the thread from last week I'm now wondering what differentiates lettering
  from calligraphy?
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "In theory calligraphy is a method of lettering focused on rendering letters
    by writing them with a pen or brush. In practice I don\u2019t think that there\u2019s
    really a difference, and that calligraphy is becoming associated with certain
    styles of writing."
  created: '2009-05-12 23:42:18'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: o noes! i opened pandora's box!
  created: '2009-05-12 23:44:46'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "@Paul Nah. After our convo on Saturday I started thinking about stuff. Not
    a bad thing. :^)\r\n\r\n@James So you see lettering as a sort of subset to Calligraphy?
    Or are they distinct? \r\n\r\nI'm hoping some of the typophile lettering peeps
    chime in on this. "
  created: '2009-05-12 23:57:33'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: "I would say lettering could be rendered in a number of ways -- you could
    draw the outline, carve it into wood, burn letters into your lawn, construct them
    out of paperclips, etc. Calligraphy would almost always be the result of a tool
    being dragged across a surface, leaving a trace of the movements of your arm and/or
    hand.\r\n\r\nOf course, much like the difference between art & design, there's
    a million examples you could come up with that fall in a gray area. "
  created: '2009-05-13 00:39:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Lettering is a superset that includes calligraphy (which I define in terms
    of intentionally beautiful writing, with the intentional part being important:
    calligraphy is writing that someone has set out to make beautiful, not just writing
    that we happen to find beautiful).'
  created: '2009-05-13 00:45:48'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: "I'd also say that calligraphy is always lettering, but lettering is not necessarily
    calligraphy. \r\n\r\nNot something I've thought about before, but an interesting
    question."
  created: '2009-05-13 00:46:12'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "All right let us settle this for all intents and purposes now: )\r\n\r\nStephen,
    Graham, James M, Charles, Gerard, Fred ( I know you lurk ), Nick, Paul, John,
    Peter, and all you other letter bastardizers. Belly up!\r\n\r\nCalligraphy: the
    art of beautiful writing. (period) Now whether you want to include the brush,
    ruling pen, etc. is up to you. Straight out of the pen... no futzing what so ever.
    That is what I consider my calligraphic side.\r\n\r\nLettering is, TO ME, letters
    built up, drawn, touched up, futzed with, noodled ........ ad infinitum. A more
    lengthy process.\r\n\r\nLet me go further! Typography: The application of letters
    to design... primarily TYPE but not discounting the use of calligraphy, lettering
    etc. in the commission of a \"layout.\"\r\n\r\nIt is a concept that I have been
    using for almost thirty years, and you guys are not the only ones who struggle
    with this. Calligraphers think amending letterforms is cheating. Go figure.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-05-13 00:49:59'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Excellent point John... as always, incisive!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-05-13 00:57:09'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: It has occurred to me that calligraphy might also be as much an end as it
    is a means.
  created: '2009-05-13 01:03:28'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: "I can't argue with calligraphy meaning \"beautiful writing,\" because that's
    what it literally means in Greek: kallos+graphe, beauty+writing. \r\n\r\nHowever,
    one could go to the store, buy a set of pens marketed as a \"calligraphy set,\"
    go home and attempt to make something very ugly with them. And god knows that
    although many people may believe their calligraphy is beautiful, it definitely
    is not to the rest of the world. I don't think that someone producing bad or ugly
    calligraphy is not creating calligraphy, just as someone playing an instrument
    poorly or purposefully \"ugly\" doesn't cease to produce music."
  created: '2009-05-13 01:12:34'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I agree with John and Michael.
  created: '2009-05-13 01:16:36'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Don't muddy the waters Josh... nobody is talking about beginners. Beautiful
    writing requires practice.\r\n\r\nEdit: did not mean for that to sound mean...
    it was not!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-05-13 01:30:07'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Eek! Please DO NOT bring typography into this conversation. kthxbai
  created: '2009-05-13 01:57:22'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Pure edification Miss Tiffany!\r\n\r\nAnd what the heck is kthxbai????????\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-05-13 02:21:30'
- author:
    name: bemerx25
    picture: 112539
  body: "kthxbai = Ok. Thanks. Bye. \r\n\r\nThank you lolcatz for further devolving
    our language..."
  created: '2009-05-13 02:56:59'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Regarding the relationship of 'calligraphy' and 'lettering', I am certainly
    familiar with Michael's distinction vis the latter, but I believe this is 'lettering'
    used as an abbreviation of 'drawn lettering', which should not be confused with
    the superset of lettering that encompasses both written and drawn -- and carved,
    and sand-blasted, and chain-sawed, etc. -- letters.
  created: '2009-05-13 02:59:13'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: '@typerror: My point is that even if someone sucks at calligraphy or is a
    beginner, they are still engaged in the practice of calligraphy. In terms of the
    "beauty" part meaning they are consciously attempting to make their letterforms
    beautiful, I would agree that this is almost always the goal of calligraphy, but
    then that opens up another can of worms: if a 6 year old is practicing drawing
    their letters with a pencil, and is trying really hard to make them look perfect,
    does this count as calligraphy? I think most people would say "Obviously not."
    To me, it''s much clearer to define the difference between calligraphy and lettering
    in terms of the tools or methods used to make them rather than an abstraction
    like "beauty."'
  created: '2009-05-13 03:10:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "To me, they  are different. Calligraphy is writing and lettering is building
    letters either with older tools like brush or newer ones like vector graphics
    tools. Lettering can be used for signs or for reproduction in print media.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-05-13 04:01:01'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "Michael. What about signwriting (a seemingly dying and ignored art) which
    is lettering/calligraphy with a brush and paint? The letter forms are not necassarly
    built up, just single strokes. A friend of mine, used to always make a distinction
    between calligraphy and what she called her \"money stroke\" lettering (mostly
    casuals) for signs, showcards etc. \r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n\r\n[[http://www.thefontry.com|<em>...from
    the Fontry </em>]]"
  created: '2009-05-13 04:15:58'
- author:
    name: constantx
    picture: 115664
  body: "I think those two totally different meaning. not even a subset of one another.\r\n\r\nIMHO,
    dump down to the basic\r\n\r\nCalligraphy = Beautiful Writing, a way of art\r\n\r\nLettering
    = the process of create letter from tool (think i'm using this mark to make this
    shape on this surface) "
  created: '2009-05-13 05:17:42'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "A word means whatever it generally means to people. If you use it another
    way, it will confuse them. Here is the Concise Oxford on the definition of Calligraphy:\r\n\r\n\"1.
    Handwriting, esp. when fine or pleasing. 2. The art of handwriting.\" \r\n\r\nThat
    pretty much lines up with Noordzij's distinction between writing with a continuous
    stroke and built up lettering. \r\n\r\nThe important thing, as far as history,
    is that with a continuous stroke, the tool has a very big influence on the final
    shape of the letters and words. With built up letters, such as punch cutting (actually
    take-away letters) and pencil (pantographic punch cutting afterward) and Bezier
    curves, the tool doesn't have as dominant an affect on the shape. \r\n\r\nWith
    letters built with extended, but overlapping brush strokes, as is evidently the
    case with sign painting--and perhaps the original of the Imperial Caps--is sort
    of an in-between category as far as production of letters.\r\n\r\nThe skills involved
    are, obviously related but different. Skill in using a brush or a pen in a continuous
    stroke, or the overlapping strokes of the sign painter, are obviously special
    skills that take a lot of practice, and talent, aside from a person's ability
    to do built-up letters. \r\n\r\nMy impression is that people would not normally
    use the term 'calligraphy' to apply to sign painting techniques. But I think it
    is important not to get bogged down in definitions. Meanings are in normal usage
    somewhat vague, and to assume they are precise is to go on a frustrating wild
    goose chase. \r\n\r\nFor producers of letters, I think Noordzij's distinction--continuous
    vs built up--is quite useful.   "
  created: '2009-05-13 05:25:25'
- author:
    name: Graham McArthur
    picture: 109915
  body: I am reluctant to chime in on this too early, or even 'have a go' after last
    week. I will come back to this after some thought and when I have a spare hour.
    I am a little too busy right now to post something worth reading (if I can ever
    manage that aim at all).
  created: '2009-05-13 05:29:08'
- author:
    name: Eli
    picture: 112186
  body: I think calligraphy is different from lettering because it uses special tools
    (pen nibs, bambu dip pens)  with special techniques (ductus, traslation, rotation,
    expansion), obviously the calligrapher needs a kind of skills to make beautiful
    letters. On the other hand, lettering can be made with any instrument over any
    surface or support and not necessarily with calligraphic techniques, it has a
    wider scope of options to make letters.
  created: '2009-05-13 05:34:52'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "Not all forms of sign painting involve overlapping strokes. As I have tried,
    unsuccessfully, to explain, some lettering done by sign painters (or more properly
    - sign writers) is done with single strokes, not overlapping, not built up. There
    are several scripts, casuals, and even some gothics (called single stroke gothics)
    of this variety. \r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n\r\n[[http://www.thefontry.com|<em>...from
    the Fontry </em>]]"
  created: '2009-05-13 05:42:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "What John said.\r\nCalligraphy is a subset of lettering.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    I often use the terms in contrast--\"lettering\" to mean constructed letters and
    \"calligraphy\" to mean written letters. (What Chris said.)"
  created: '2009-05-13 05:49:37'
- author:
    name: Graham McArthur
    picture: 109915
  body: "Sorry, a 2 minute break from work to stick my nose in and stir the pot.\r\nFrom
    the definitions presented above (most of them) history needs to re-classify the
    following 'traditional calligraphic hands' and re-label and tag them as lettering?\r\nRustic
    Script, Square Capitals, Latin Uncials, Insular Half Uncials, Prescissus Gothic,
    Textura Gothic, Caroline Capitals, English Capitals, Early Gothic Capitals, Rotunda
    Gothic, Humanist Square Capitals, Humanist Minuscules (to name just a few) and
    about 75-85% of today's  contemporary calligraphy. These are all 'built up' with
    a number of strokes and not actually written in the strict sense of the definitions
    posted above.\r\n\r\nI am just asking the question.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-13 07:08:08'
- author:
    name: Stephen Rapp
    picture: 111901
  body: "Calligraphy is the more difficult one to define as it could potentially have
    several meanings. I doubt that a consensus will be reached on that one. Lettering,
    I believe, is simply creating letters which could include calligraphy. The most
    traditional forms of calligraphy are associated with the broad-edged pen in western
    calligraphy and brush in eastern traditions. Calligraphy is usually associated
    as being more direct, but then again\u2026 so is showcard writing and even common
    handwriting. I remember hearing a well known calligrapher once dismiss all pointed
    pen scripts as not being calligraphy. Where I work, if they say to do something
    'calligraphic' it usually means broad-edged letters. I think of calligraphy as
    being more directly written, but I wouldn't consider that a definition. \r\n\r\nThe
    root of the word means beautiful writing, but that doesn't necessarily constitute
    a definition. A piece of lettering could be purposefully made ugly or frightening
    to achieve a specific effect.\r\n\r\nGraham: Good point about the traditional
    built up letters. \r\n\r\nMaybe this is why Calligraphy Review was changed to
    Letter Arts Review back in the 90's."
  created: '2009-05-13 12:13:40'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "@Chris\r\n\r\nI thought that was what I said : )\r\n\r\n@ Graham... I knew
    you were going to bring up Versals... party pooper : )\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-05-13 12:18:08'
- author:
    name: seven7h tangent
  body: 'Calligraphy, by my understanding, is a subset of lettering which implies
    emphasis on the artistic quality of letters themselves, as opposed to just their
    message.  Consider Grotesk types, for example (Akzidenz, Helvetica, etc.)--they''re
    designed specifically so that the letterforms themselves are not particularly
    noticeable.  However, compare these typefaces with lettering done using a calligraphy
    nib: the difference is extremely obvious.  You pay attention to the curls and
    flourishes of calligraphy.  You don''t pay attention (unless you''re a typographer--then
    the rules are different :) to the straight lines or even widths of sans-serif
    type (or in the case of most people, serif type as well).  i''m reminded of Brioso,
    a Robert Slimbach font based on Italian lettering written using quill pens.  Brioso
    effectively sits on the fence between utilitarian lettering and calligraphy--one
    notices the letterforms and the way they''re drawn, but the unique features of
    the typeface are subtle enough that the letters don''t hog the attention from
    the text itself...'
  created: '2009-05-13 20:10:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>These are all \u2019built up\u2019 with a number of strokes...</em>\r\n\r\nThey
    are written in the sense that there is a close connection between the size of
    the nib/brush and the stem width.\r\n\r\nConstructed lettering is like, \"outline
    and fill\". \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-13 20:41:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "@Michael Great minds...:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-05-13 22:26:10'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "@ Chris\r\n\r\n& old minds fall apart : )\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-05-14 03:36:55'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: To me they are closely related but very different disciplines. An analogy
    would be the relationship between topiary and bonsai.
  created: '2009-05-14 09:02:33'
- author:
    name: spark
    picture: 117319
  body: This is a very thorough discussion, but I can add a few elements not addressed.
    For me, having studied both Asian calligraphy and Western for 30+ years, gesture
    is at the heart of it. The stroke begins off the page, in motion. And when the
    hand lands on the page it makes marks, the other part of my definition--markmaking.
    I don't really include "beauty" in my definition except to note that when there
    is a coming together of tactile awareness of tool, medium, surface, and intention
    it often results in something you can't NOT look at, because it communicates such
    focused intensity and connection of hand and mind.
  created: '2009-05-14 17:29:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Iskara, welcome to Typophile. \r\n\r\nVery insightful comment. I think your
    comment indicates why even in more 'typographic' fonts, a feeling of motion of
    the hand is often a desirable thing. It is key to imbuing a typeface with a feeling
    of warmth and humanity. "
  created: '2009-05-14 18:25:04'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Watch it William... she will get you for spelling her name wrong : )\r\n\r\nWelcome
    Iskra. And great points, but they do not understand the \"getting into a landing
    pattern\" with the tool. For most here the mark begins with the ink appearing
    on the page : )\r\n\r\nHope you are staying busy, well and happy.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-05-14 18:39:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Iskra: very true (I have always considered calligraphy to be a performance
    art), but I don't think it differentiates lettering from calligraphy. Because
    the gestural stroke can be as much of a factor in the detailed finish of constructed
    lettering as in the main strokes of written calligraphy. The shape of a curve
    is no less important in \"outline and fill\".\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-14 19:38:15'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Nick\r\n\r\nNever thought of calligraphy as performance art as I rarely have
    an audience... but it is the most fun you can have when you are by yourself :
    )\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-05-14 22:57:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: You don't need an audience as long as it's recorded.
  created: '2009-05-15 03:05:10'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5AmpyiR6kj8
  created: '2009-05-15 03:14:33'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Iskra: <em>The stroke begins off the page, in motion.</em>\r\n\r\nThis is
    a very important insight that, as Michael notes, most type people don't intuitively
    grasp. You have to see it being done.\r\n\r\nThere's a lovely thing one sees in
    Arabic calligraphy sometimes, notably in the larger thuluth style, where the calligrapher
    lifts the pen in the middle of an extended stroke and then drops it down again
    a little later, leaving a small gap in the stroke. It makes Iskra's point visible:
    the stroke is a motion in space making contact with the page for a time."
  created: '2009-05-15 03:22:35'
- author:
    name: Graham McArthur
    picture: 109915
  body: "\r\n<em>Constructed lettering is like, \u201Coutline and fill\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nNot
    always. "
  created: '2009-05-15 13:01:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I was contrasting \"outline and fill\" with lettering where the nib/brush
    size relates closely to stem width.\r\n\r\nThe examples you gave of \"built up\"
    styles, mostly with \"jiggled\" or \"small backstep\" serifs at the ends of main
    stems, do not, IMO, constitute construction, as they occur, formalized, within
    the sequence of the calligraphic flow.\r\n\r\nSo I would define construction as
    being outside that temporal flow of performance.\r\n\r\n(Admittedly, certain calligraphic
    features, such as flourishes, may be added later.)"
  created: '2009-05-15 19:05:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Outline-fill constructed letters vs calligraphy is the the difference between
    Cartesian and Existential philosophy.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-05-15 19:26:12'
- author:
    name: IEUAN REES
    picture: 115307
  body: "I have just come across this thread and as both a calligrapher and lettering
    artist /craftsman with over 40 years experience I find all the various diverse
    \ comments interesting. I believe that Michaels comments, to me, are nearer the
    mark than most. I am a different person when I perform with a square edged pen
    than when i am designing or carving letters. Designing letters for print satisfies
    the designer in me, carving satisfies the craftsman in me while calligraphy  satisfies
    the artist in me. So I feel blessed that the diverse commissions I receive always
    pleases and fulfills one or more aspect of me. To me calligraphy is more spiritual
    and emotional and allows, at times, my Welsh spirit to escape.\r\nLettering in
    many guises on the other hand satisfies the perfectionist in me and gives me an
    outlet to solve visual problems which I love. But if my finances would allow it
    I would only carry out large scale freely written calligraphy as it would involve
    all my senses and be an extension of myself.\r\n\r\nIf you don't mind I would
    like to share a personal experience with you which I feel has a bearing on this
    thread.\r\n\r\nIn 1988 my wife Barbara died at the young age of 44. At the time
    my daughter Victoria was 13 years old and Angharad was just 6. I had no relatives
    near at hand so I had to look after them on my own without financial help for
    nearly 7 years. How I managed to look after them and carry out commissioned work
    still baffles me. But the interesting thing, as far as this thread goes, is that
    for the following 11 years after Barbara died I could not do any calligraphy at
    all however hard I tried. But designing letters and carving I managed to do because
    there was no emotion involved and I could stop and start around my family demands
    and duties. But with calligraphy as it is instant and personal I could not get
    fully involved and totally engrossed as calligraphy demands.\r\n\r\nSo to me Calligraphy
    is more personal and it needs a totally different type of involvement than lettering
    so that all my senses can work together and perform without any interuption. Lettering
    on the other hand allows for interruptions and that makes a big difference.\r\n\r\nI
    agree that calligraphy that needs manipulation or add ons is not true calligraphy
    in the same way that paper folding that nedds scissors is not true origami.\r\n\r\nIeuan
    Rees\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-17 01:57:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Ieuan: <em>I agree that calligraphy that needs manipulation or add ons is
    not true calligraphy...</em>\r\n\r\nWhat if the style of writing relies upon such
    methods in order to fulfil its normative forms?\r\n\r\nIs this calligraphy or
    not?  http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RdQgBk59z-8"
  created: '2009-05-17 03:35:44'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "John\r\nWatching the video it appeared as though Hermann Zapf and Arthur
    Baker were channeling each other : )\r\n\r\n@Ieuan... crap I have forgotten all
    my Welsh greetings! A greeting across the pond is not so different than one across
    a \"holler.\"\r\nPut your site address up here so they can see what a brilliant
    Welshman can do! I would've but  did not think it proper.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-05-17 04:46:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I've seen Zapf do gorgeous calligraphy with the side of a piece of chalk
    2 feet high on a blackboard--you had to have seen the guy work.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-05-17 07:16:20'
- author:
    name: IEUAN REES
    picture: 115307
  body: "Michael  \r\n\r\nThanks for your kind words and here is my site address which
    I hope will be of some interest \r\n\r\nwww.ieuanreeslettering.co.uk\r\n\r\nTo
    answer John's question\r\n\r\n'What if the style of writing relies upon such methods
    in order to fulfil its normative forms'\r\n\r\nYes I would agree that scripts
    that need manipulation to aid legibility such as Rotunda for example is calligraphy,
    but we must take into account that Rotunda was written with a flexible quill and
    would allow for easy manipulation. Trying to do the same with a modern steel nib
    is not so easy and fluent an the results too often appear too conscious, constructed
    and laboured. If manipulation can be done easily and effortlessly and allows the
    writer to perform flowingly then yes I would call that calligraphy. But if on
    the other hand manipulation and add ons prevents natural flow and needs too technical
    an approach then I would not call it calligraphy. However I do a lot of calligraphy
    for graphic purposes that need manipulation and add ons to gain certain visual
    affects but I call such work 'Calligraphics'\r\n\r\nIeuan\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-17 11:45:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Fabulous work, Ieuan Rees !\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-05-17 17:40:09'
- author:
    name: spark
    picture: 117319
  body: "I have found this thread really inspiring. It has put me in a retrospective
    mood and made me look at the process I went through to move from being purely
    a calligrapher to being a lettering artist who works both ways. I've posted an
    essay, with acknowledgments to several of the contributors here, at http://www.alphabetroadtrip.com
    with an excerpt here as it is too long to post in entirety. I'm having some formatting
    issues with Typepad so please forgive me if the font sizes are all over the map:\r\n\r\n...THE
    LIMITS OF CALLIGRAPHY\r\n\r\nSolutions that arrive kinesthetically and directly
    out of the inherent engineering of the tool have a natural balance of positive
    and negative shapes created without fear of aesthetic incorrectness. They land
    on the page with a sureness of gravity, an understanding of their own boundaries,
    and an affection for the community of letters coming before and after. But there
    is a hazard. In some sense they always look the same. One can tell exactly how
    they are made. \r\n\r\nIn studying the work of master calligraphers it is always
    the mark that I cannot diagnose that catches my eye. For instance Herman Zapf.
    I nearly killed myself trying to do curving ascenders like his thinking they were
    made in one stroke, until I discovered by watching a film of him in action that
    each seemingly single stroke was made up of a series of hesitations, overlaps
    and deft \"pulls.\" And it is way difficult. It is magic. There is a complexity
    in this kind of work that holds my attention for a long time. I think it is because
    it marries two minds: the visual result looks like it originates in gesture, but
    the method is complex engineering. The stroke is made slowly, self-consciously,
    yet appears completely \"natural.\"\r\n\r\nMuch of contemporary calligraphy references
    this way of working. The calligrapher delicately balances between artless and
    artful, and the exact cause and effect of the tool is hidden, embedded as a source
    of mystery. Partly this is the result of new tools such as the ruling pen that
    have allowed the calligrapher to make marks that have all the thick and thin beauty
    of traditional calligraphy without the drastic angles of the edged pen. Partly
    it is due to the demands of the advertising and design world, where \"calligraphy\"
    in the traditional sense comes with a set of associations (pretty, precious, old,
    feminine, formal, etc.) that limit its reach....."
  created: '2009-05-18 02:53:56'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Terrific contributions Iskra and Ieuan!
  created: '2009-05-18 04:03:19'
date: '2009-05-12 23:31:11'
node_type: forum
title: 'Lettering v. Calligraphy: Are they the same or different?'

---
