---
author:
  name: abattis
  picture: 112245
body: "Over on www-style, Tom Phinney wrote, \r\n\r\n\"In the broader universe of
  fonts, these [divergently proportioned fonts] are not the norm at all. Metrically
  similar fonts do make up a significant chunk of system fonts, though. (Arial/Helvetica,
  Times/Times New Roman, Book Antiqua/Palatino, etc.)\"\r\n - <a href=\"http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-style/2009May/0058.html\">http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-style/2009May/0058.html</a>\r\n\r\n\r\nCould
  anyone who has produced \"metric-compatible\" fonts explain how copying the metrics
  of another font is not copyright infringement? :-)"
comments:
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: I'd suggest that because the metrics are numbers, and not designs, they are
    not considered art, and therefore not copyrightable. A patent might be able to
    protect them, but very few fonts are patented, and you would have to show that
    your metrics are somehow unique in order to get patent protection on them.
  created: '2009-05-13 20:32:10'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "As the practice pre-dates digital, I wonder if there may be some legal precedent
    around it? But what\u2019s slightly more interesting, to me at least, is aside
    from the legal issues, if the layout characteristics of a modern OpenType Pro
    font could be cloned \u2013 given the contextual features, class based kerning,
    etc., - and still be a successful design. "
  created: '2009-05-13 20:51:28'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "The points of bezier curves are numbers. But since choosing these numbers
    involves \"creative choices\" they are subject to copyright in the USA - quote
    at http://scripts.sil.org/UNESCO_Font_Lic \r\n\r\nWhy are metrics different?\r\n\r\n@Sii:
    I don't know about any legal precedents for this, but since AIUI non-digital technologies
    were seen in US law as typefaces directly, rather than digital representations
    of typefaces, I don't think there will be any. I also don't know of anyone making
    a metrics compatible font and being sued under any law (I understand ITC v Monotype
    was a contractual despite about letter shapes, not specifically metrics.)"
  created: '2009-05-13 22:28:29'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: 'The case for this is the one you''ve described. If someone wants to create
    an open-source application, say OpenOffice, and wants to maintain file format
    compatibility with, say MS Office, metrically identical default fonts are very
    useful. I kind-of hope this is not protected by copyright... '
  created: '2009-05-13 22:36:55'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: Web fonts with similar proportions (and copied metrics) could be important
    to stop "page flicker"...
  created: '2009-05-14 08:35:14'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Web fonts with similar proportions (and copied metrics) could be important
    to stop \u201Cpage flicker\u201D...\r\n\r\nAn interesting idea. However, to paraphrase
    Ambassador Spiekermann from the Helvetica film, it\u2019s not the metrical cloning
    that most people object to, its metrically cloning a font and coming up with a
    worse design, especially if it becomes more successful and more widespread. How
    can you improve on Helvetica? It's perfect. Hence any font based on its metrics
    will be sub-perfect. This is the main reason no one complains about the fonts
    placed on Arial's metrics. \r\n\r\nMove this logic to the Web fonts space and
    you're quickly looking at designs based on Verdana and Georgia's metrics. Do you
    feel it\u2019s possible to make better Web fonts than Verdana and Georgia? Are
    people willing to put their work up against Matthew Carter and give it a try?\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-14 16:41:46'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: "<cite> How can you improve on Helvetica? It\u2019s perfect ... Do you feel
    it\u2019s possible to make better Web fonts than Verdana and Georgia?</cite>\r\n\r\nSo
    basically we shouldn't design any new typefaces.\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-14 17:15:42'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "No, all I\u2019m saying is if you're designing a new typeface using an existing
    font's metrics your font will be judged against the original."
  created: '2009-05-14 18:33:23'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "If one can reverse-engineer it, it\u2018s okay. In other words: print and
    measure.\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-05-14 18:39:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Do you feel it\u2019s possible to make better Web fonts than Verdana
    and Georgia?</em>\r\n\r\nIt's certainly possible to make quite different fonts.\r\nThere
    are large genre gaps, niches not filled by the MS TrueType web fonts and ClearType
    fonts.\r\n\r\nIt's also true that fonts optimized for low pixel resolution will
    tend to look similar when small, but there is plenty of scope for divergence at
    larger sizes. \r\n\r\nFor instance at small size a Light or Thin font would look
    the same as a Regular font, in order to not disappear."
  created: '2009-05-14 19:25:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>There are large genre gaps, niches not filled by the MS TrueType
    web fonts and ClearType fonts.</em>\r\n\r\nIt is also worth noting that the ClearType
    fonts are not 'screen fonts' per se (something that some critics seem insistent
    on getting wrong). They were commissioned as 'document fonts', and the expectation
    was that the documents would be viewed both on screen and in print, hence the
    nature of the designs and the compromises they exhibit. They're fonts whose forms
    are treated kindly by ClearType but, as I told Greg Hitchcock at MS, if we'd been
    commissioned to design fonts specifically for screen, without the consideration
    of print, or vice versa, then the results would have been different.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nThe
    irony of Helvetica/Arial is that Helvetica is terribly spaced due to the inheritance
    of photosetting unitised widths."
  created: '2009-05-14 20:48:56'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: "<cite>No, all I\u2019m saying is if you\u2019re designing a new typeface
    using an existing font\u2019s metrics your font will be judged against the original.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    think you're forgetting why someone would want to match the metrics of another
    font. It's entirely about space. In theory, you could design a proprietary Garamond
    that fits Helvetica's metrics. They would set the same, existing documents changed
    to the new font wouldn't re-rag, etc. Making formal comparisons between the theoretical
    new Garamond and Helvetica would be silly and pointless."
  created: '2009-05-14 20:49:32'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John:<em>...as I told Greg Hitchcock at MS, if we\u2019d been commissioned
    to design fonts specifically for screen, without the consideration of print, or
    vice versa, then the results would have been different.</em>\r\n\r\nThis becoming
    a storied evolution \u2014 You are aware the fonts are called the \"ClearType
    Collection\", and that Cleartype is an innovative and revolutionary font rendering
    sub-system patented solely for the purpose of improving screen fonts at low resolution?
    \r\n\r\nAnd also, how do you imagine you would have done things differently? And
    also when you say \"without the consideration of print, or vice versa\"... the
    fonts were designed without consideration for print or screen? I'm confused.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-05-14 21:46:24'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">In theory, you could design a proprietary Garamond that fits Helvetica\u2019s
    metrics.\r\n\r\nit's my experience that placing a serif i on a sans serif i's
    metrics is theoretically difficult in most cases. \r\n\r\n>Making formal comparisons
    between the theoretical new Garamond and Helvetica would be silly and pointless.\r\n\r\nTell
    that to the people who've made a career comparing Arial with Helvetica. They don't
    see that as pointless or silly. Likewise I can guarantee the first font made on
    Verdana's metrics will be compared to Verdana - and I somewhat doubt the comparison
    will be declared pointless, or silly. \r\n"
  created: '2009-05-14 23:44:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>This becoming a storied evolution \u2014 You are aware the fonts
    are called the \u201CClearType Collection\u201D, and that Cleartype is an innovative
    and revolutionary font rendering sub-system patented solely for the purpose of
    improving screen fonts at low resolution?</em>\r\n\r\nNo, not for 'improving screen
    fonts at low resolution'; for improving fonts on screen at low resolution. You
    understand the distinction between 'screen fonts' and 'fonts on screen'? ClearType
    is a technology for making fonts look more like typefaces at low resolutions on
    screen, and less like brick patterns. It is applied to all TT fonts (and now,
    in WPF and DWrite, to CFF fonts), regardless of whether those fonts are designed
    as 'screen fonts'.\r\n\r\nThe ClearType collection fonts were designed to look
    good in ClearType rendering. But the design brief was that they should look good
    on screen <em>and in print</em>, not that they were screen fonts. The fact that
    one of the primary in-house customers for the fonts was Office should make this
    obvious: Word continues to be primarily a tool for creating print documents.\r\n\r\n<em>And
    also, how do you imagine you would have done things differently? And also when
    you say \u201Cwithout the consideration of print, or vice versa\u201D... the fonts
    were designed without consideration for print or screen? I\u2019m confused.</em>\r\n\r\nBy
    vice versa, I meant that fonts would be different than they are if they were designed
    solely for screen <em>or solely for print.</em> You know this, David, because
    you were sitting next to me in the lobby of the hotel at TypeCon in Seattle when
    I explained this to Greg. That's when he mentioned that Bill Gates had initially
    floated the idea of fonts having two sets of outlines -- one for print and one
    for screen --, and my estimation of Mr Gates went up considerably. But they didn't
    do that, and the result is that fonts that try to meet the brief to 'look good
    on screen and in print' are necessarily compromised and will not be optimised
    for either medium.\r\n\r\nA few days ago, I listened to part of a BBC radio show
    in which Brian Eno was talking about his experience of producing Windows system
    sounds. The brief was a document describing how the sounds should be exciting,
    contemporary, sexy, friendly, and a whole string of other random adjectives, and
    no longer than 3.4 seconds. I laughed at what is, to me, a very familiar circumstance."
  created: '2009-05-15 02:08:24'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John, A great story. I was sitting next to you in the lobby of the hotel.
    Greg was wearing mismatched tennis shoes. No one ever mentioned that Bill Gates
    misunderstood the use of TT hints so totally that he thought a second set of outlines
    would help, instead of a single properly hinted outline! I would have jumped on
    that idea it 'till t'was completely buried. Is it a good idea now? Was that ever
    a good idea?\r\n\r\n\"No, not for \u2019improving screen fonts at low resolution\u2019...\"
    Yes, John, read the patents! Watch the video! You remember this part? Greg asked,
    \"...and what is print?\" I lost interest after that question. Now... I only understand
    the distinction between people willing to take responsibility for, and fix the
    trust between developers and readers, and people who are not.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-15 12:33:36'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I just want to clarify an error in the quote from me that was used to kick
    off this thread. It's not a huge deal, but:\r\n\r\n<cite>\u201CIn the broader
    universe of fonts, these [divergently proportioned fonts] are not the norm at
    all. Metrically similar fonts do make up a significant chunk of system fonts,
    though. (Arial/Helvetica, Times/Times New Roman, Book Antiqua/Palatino, etc.)\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\n\"These\"
    refers to fonts that share metrics, the *opposite* of divergently-proportioned
    fonts.\r\n\r\nThis was in the context of arguing that you could not, in general,
    sub out one font for another without getting reflow.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-05-16 11:20:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, what do you think \u2018improving screen fonts at low resolution\u2019
    -- in the context of ClearType -- means?\r\n\r\nThis is how I analyse it:\r\n\r\nFirst
    of all, there is no such thing as a \u2018screen font\u2019 as a technical entity
    in TrueType, unlike old Mac Type 1 fonts, so I take screen fonts to mean simply
    'fonts on screen'. The other possible meaning of 'screen font', as a typeface
    designed specifically for reading on screen such as Verdana, doesn't apply since
    ClearType is applied to all fonts.\r\n\r\nNow, in what sense does ClearType \u2018improve\u2019
    fonts on screen? And relative to what does it improve them?\r\n\r\nPerhaps it
    improves them in terms of legibility? But black and white bitmaps are pretty darned
    legible, and at very small sizes they're still more legible than ClearType on
    even a moderately high resolution screen. The trouble with black and white bitmaps,
    though, is that they don't look like type. They don't look like type in two ways:
    generally, they lack the character of typographic letters, looking more like brick
    mosaics, and, specifically, they lack fidelity to individual typeface designs,
    since the low resolution grid is too coarse to represent detail or curve style.
    Hence the development of anti-aliasing techniques, which I think reveal the primary
    thrust of all screen rendering technology developments after the initial development
    of TrueType: <em>making fonts on screen look more like type.</em>\r\n\r\nThe trouble
    with greyscale anti-aliasing, though, is that it reduces stroke density, and this
    demonstrable impedes legibility, especially at small sizes. And hence the gasp
    table, and the ability to determine the size at which anti-aliasing kicks in:
    leaving those nicely legible black and white bitmaps (either hint-controlled or
    embedded) at smaller sizes. So fonts on screen were legible at small sizes and
    looked more like type at larger sizes.\r\n\r\nNow, again, in what sense does ClearType
    \u2018improve\u2019 on this, if small black and white bitmaps are already legible
    and large greyscale bitmaps are already type-like? The only way in which the statement
    can be interpreted as true is to say that \u2018ClearType improves the fidelity
    of fonts on screen to type -- makes fonts on screen more \u201Ctype-like\u201D
    -- at smaller sizes while retaining stroke density\u2019. That is what ClearType
    does: as with other anti-aliasing technologies, its primary purpose, its principle
    thrust, is to make fonts on screen look more like type, both in a general sense
    and in fidelity to specific typeface designs.\r\n\r\nSo, what are the ClearType
    Collection fonts? They're a response to the observation of <em>how</em> ClearType
    works, rather than to an understanding of what ClearType does. If that sounds
    like someone, somewhere is confused, that's because someone is. It's either me
    or Microsoft, and I think it is Microsoft. They have a technology that makes fonts
    on screen look more like type, but they are trying to understand that technology
    in terms of readability. I can see the justification for this <em>relative to
    other forms of anti-aliasing</em> and, e.g. contra Apple, who have decided to
    completely avoid the question of readability by freely anti-aliasing everything
    at every size and in every direction. But this -- along with an internal market
    for particular kinds of fonts -- leads Microsoft to demand contradictory things
    from type designers. On the one hand, they have a technology that, justifiably,
    they can claim makes fonts on screen -- all fonts -- look more like typefaces.
    On the other hand, this technology works in specific ways that favours certain
    kinds of shapes and design characteristics, and this suggests that typefaces could
    be designed to take advantage of how the technology works, with the goal of improving
    screen readability over the existing MS core fonts. On the third hand, they have
    internal customers for fonts, such as Word, who want fonts that will be readable
    on screen but who are still primarily in the business of producing documents for
    print, who still see fonts on screen more in terms of creating text than reading
    text, and who are looking to replace Times Roman and Arial as default document
    fonts. On the fourth hand, they have -- or rather had -- the promise from multiple
    laptop and monitor manufacturers, almost a decade ago, that they would be standardising
    on 120 ppi or higher resolution screens, a promise that has not come to fruition
    as these companies have chosen to keep the price of such screens artificially
    high by flooding the lower end of the market with cheap crap. And on the fifth
    hand, they have what seems to be an ingrained and company-wide desire for every
    product to be all things to all people. With that many hands, no wonder they're
    confused.\r\n\r\nI first saw ClearType on a 200 ppi device -- 8pt Palatino, legible,
    nice dark strokes, and recognisably Palatino --, which perhaps explains why I
    blame the companies that make and sell cheap crap monitors for breaking \u2018the
    trust between developers and readers\u2019. They're the ones who failed to follow
    through. In the past, you've accused me of being elitist because I favour high
    resolution screens on which ClearType functions better. I'm not elitist: I think
    everyone should have these screens and that these screens should be affordably
    priced. I do not believe that the difference in manufacturing costs is fairly
    represented in the difference in price."
  created: '2009-05-16 14:47:07'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: '@Thomas: Sorry for misquoting, my mistake!'
  created: '2009-05-16 18:52:09'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "JohnHudson>First of all, there is no such thing as a \u2018screen font\u2019
    as a technical entity in TrueType...\r\n\r\nWith all dying respect, this's true,
    though it is not correct.\r\n\r\nIn 1989 Apple asked me to learn TT and I did.
    In the same year they asked to me instruct some fonts and I learned the tool,
    (royalT). As I was attempting to prove TT instructing (on the 'standard' pi font),
    I noticed the glyph window displayed two unnumbered points sitting at the baseline
    looking suspiciously like side bearing markers. I asked why these points didn't
    have point numbers, \"I want to instruct them!\"\r\n\r\nApple tech guys said I
    could not instruct these 'phantom points' because the metrics were being defined
    outside of the designer's control as unrounded or rounded pixel values. Back with
    the Apple font boss I confirmed the specification was to produce fonts at all
    sizes 8-24 ppm equal in quality to the fonts they were replacing (screen fonts!),
    which she did. I quit, as neither I nor anyone else could do the job without total
    control of the character's pixel widths. \r\n\r\nHaving come from an environment
    of extreme quality control and user concern for all things fonts, she knew, and
    rehired me. The engineers then tried to confine me to only instruct to narrower
    widths than those implied by the outlines, and I refused. Then,  Apple appended
    the point numbers on the end of the glyph's points, (I can see now I should have
    wanted them accreted to the beginning:(duh), and... Apple made the hdmx table.
    \r\n\r\n<em>TT had the \u2018screen font\u2019 as a technical capability from
    1.0 on. Still does (http://www.microsoft.com/typography/otspec/hdmx.htm), is one
    part. Managing the instructions is another part. Designing an outline is the third,
    optional part.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat happened next (including all the way up to this
    conversation), is an interesting story. As I've said all along, it is perhaps
    the most interesting type technology story of all time!\r\n\r\nThe Superior Way
    To The Modern Low Resolution User's Reading Organs, Is Through AA shapes, and
    Aliased, Integer, Discrete, Whole PiXel Widths (choose your term). I have not
    changed this story one iota since long before CT was introduced to me at a Poynter
    Institute mini-conference on the subject of higher quality wysiwyg fonts for editors,
    (just kidding, it was about readability in screen fonts. I guess the MS folks
    just had this one hammer though, so they brought it).\r\n\r\nIf there's anything
    at all you don't understand here, please ask. \r\n\r\nJohnHudson>That is what
    ClearType does: as with other anti-aliasing technologies, its primary purpose,
    its principle thrust, is to make fonts on screen look more like type...\r\n\r\nBe
    clear... ClearType is not one part. Applied as the parts are, CT makes type on
    screen look like its printed version. Anti-aliasing technologies do not have to
    be so limited. \r\n  \r\nJohnHudson>I\u2019m not elitist: I think everyone should
    have these screens and that these screens should be affordably priced.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not laughing, (if that's a joke).\r\n\r\nCheers\r\n \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-17 14:39:01'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Sii>it\u2019s my experience that placing a serif i on a sans serif i\u2019s
    metrics is theoretically difficult in most cases.\r\nThis is theoretically difficult
    only if you design the sans without a complete specification. :)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-05-17 15:02:47'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">This is theoretically difficult only if you design the sans without a complete
    specification. :)\r\n\r\nTrue, if only Max Miedinger had considered that someone
    would want to do a Serifavetica he could have certainly made life easier for us. "
  created: '2009-05-17 16:20:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>ClearType is not one part. Applied as the parts are, CT makes
    type on screen look like its printed version. Anti-aliasing technologies do not
    have to be so limited.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, that's a good statement.\r\n\r\nI do think
    that the primary drive of rendering technologies over the past fifteen or so years
    has been toward making fonts on screen look more like type, which in most peoples'
    minds still implies 'like its printed version' or 'like the design you see in
    the outlines'. I think that has been the case even when some of the developers
    involved thought they were doing something else, like focusing on readability.
    In fact, they're treating readability as a quality to be added back into the technology
    after whatever sacrifices have been made to make the fonts look like type. Apple
    said, \u2018We're going to make fonts on screen look as much like the outline
    design as our full fuzz renderer can achieve.' Microsoft said, \u2018We're going
    to make fonts on screen look as much like the printed version as possible, and
    then we're going to try to make them readable too.'\r\n\r\nWhich led them to start
    asking questions like \u2018What is reading?'"
  created: '2009-05-17 21:05:08'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Which led them to start asking questions like \u2018What is reading?\u2019\r\n\r\nA
    good point. I think they also started asking questions like \"what is type?\",
    \"how is it made?\", and \"why do we have to make it over and over again?\"\r\n\r\n>they\u2019re
    treating readability as a quality to be added back into the technology after whatever
    sacrifices have been made to make the fonts look like type\r\n\r\nAnother good
    point. But as I've told them all, this is not the way. You don't take control
    from the experts and pretend you have not. And if you look at the history of \"How
    to make good screen fonts\", (which is written in TT quite clearly), you can see
    that they can't get 'there' from 'where they are', (unless resolution dramatically
    increases among ALL users). \r\n\r\nSo now, having wasted 15 years, what do you
    think they'll do next? Add an impossibly illegal 'wrapper-without permissions'?
    propose dozens of hardly useful OT features? distill the use of TT instructions
    down, down, down to one simple instruction? ;)\r\n\r\nLast think... to loop back
    to the topic... when Apple made TT screen fonts, as we did, and MS cloned them
    as they did, how did they copy the metrics covered by the hdmx table? Today, I've
    been told, MS's CT working in 'compatible' mode gets the compatible metrics by
    rendering the font through a PS interpreter. CT then takes those metrics and forces
    the CT to render on those widths? why is this better than the hdmx table, e.g.?\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-18 12:18:42'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>Today, I\u2019ve been told, MS\u2019s CT working in \u2019compatible\u2019
    mode gets the compatible metrics by rendering the font through a PS interpreter.
    CT then takes those metrics and forces the CT to render on those widths? why is
    this better than the hdmx table, e.g.?</em>\r\n\r\nTo hazard a guess as to why
    they might do this, I believe subpixel positioning was a primary assumption of
    the technology, in which case they thought the hdmx table was dispensible; then
    things got messy because someone at MS -- my guess is Word developers -- wanted
    full pixel compatible widths. But since the hdmx table data in existing fonts
    is closely related to the x-direction hinting including deltas -- e.g. a counter
    is made wider for small ppem b/w rendering and ergo the width is also delta'd
    -- that hdmx data has to be ignored of one is ignoring the x-direction outline
    deltas, otherwise you get a mismatch between the CT rendered letter shape and
    its hdmx-determined width.\r\n\r\nI think you and I agree (Cheers!) that the screen
    font baby shouldn't have been thrown out with the b/w rendering bathwater. A better
    solution would have been either a new hdmx table version for subpixel environments
    or, better yet, hdmx subtable formats that would enable the same font to have
    independently targeted widths for full pixel and subpixel environments."
  created: '2009-05-18 18:36:46'
date: '2009-05-13 19:42:31'
title: Legality of metric-compatible fonts?

---
