---
author:
  name: Tim Brown
  picture: 110622
body: "In a recent thread (http://typophile.com/node/57376), I wondered if web type
  antialiasing is based on:\r\n\r\n<ul><li>The visitor\u2019s OS antialiasing settings</li>\r\n<li>The
  visitor\u2019s OS\u2019s rendering engine (and any related settings, if different
  than general OS antialiasing settings)</li>\r\n<li>The visitor\u2019s browser antialiasing
  settings</li>\r\n<li>The visitor\u2019s browser\u2019s rendering engine (and any
  related settings, if different than general browser antialiasing settings)</li>\r\n<li>Hinting
  instructions provided by the suggested typeface?<br />\r\n(If so, at what level
  are these hinting instructions applied? OS? Browser?)</li></ul>\r\n\r\nThomas Phinney
  answered right away:\r\n\r\n<cite>All of those components *can* affect how type
  is rendered, but only one rendering engine and one anti-aliasing setting will be
  in play at a time for a given browser. [...] The hinting in the font interacts with
  the rendering engine and anti-aliasing settings, wherever they may be at the moment.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat
  I'd like to know more about is <strong>how the hinting interacts with the rendering
  engine and anti-aliasing settings</strong>. If a typeface's hints want to rasterize
  an outline one way, but the rendering engine wants to lay the same bezier in a different
  way, which wins? What does the math look like? Are values averaged? Overridden?\r\n\r\nBasically:
  to what rendering concoctions are our web type specs subject?"
comments:
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: The rendering engine has the final say on how it interprets the hints. Since
    there are multiple rendering engines, interpreting both outlines and hints in
    different ways and for different devices, the 'rendering concoctions' are pretty
    diverse.
  created: '2009-05-14 16:29:05'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">the \u2019rendering concoctions\u2019 are pretty diverse.\r\n\r\n...and
    largely undocumented. "
  created: '2009-05-14 16:43:24'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: I often wonder how many designers just run the Adobe auto-hinter and forget
    it because trying produce and test well-hinted cross-platform fonts seems to involve
    a tremendous amount of trial-and-error. I expect to see users demand great hinting
    as web fonts get rolling, but how many type designers have the time to hint fonts
    and test them on IE, Safari, Firefox, and various cellular platforms?
  created: '2009-05-14 17:27:25'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "If you're talking about PS fonts, then running the Adobe auto-hinter is going
    to produce pretty much the same results as manually putting in hints: there may
    be occasionally different decisions for certain features, but major stems will
    get the same hints. The \u2018big\u2019 differences in PS rendering will be affected
    by font-level hints: standard stem values, blue zones and blue scale.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    despite significant improvements in PS rendering (and the smaller size of CFF
    fonts), screen typography remains dominated by TrueType fonts. And the diversity
    of TT rendering models is much greater than that of PS: everything from Apple
    Quartz rendering completely ignoring all hints to b/w bitmap displays that rely
    on deep hinting down to the individual pixel level."
  created: '2009-05-14 17:41:12'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "<cite>I often wonder how many designers just run the Adobe auto-hinter and
    forget it because trying produce and test well-hinted cross-platform fonts seems
    to involve a tremendous amount of trial-and-error.</cite>\r\n\r\nActually, if
    you prepare your fonts well for hinting such as setting good values in the standard
    stems, the alignment zones and the blue scale, the Adobe hinter does a fantastic
    job! It is a professional tool. Afterwards you can test the fonts and if you see
    some strange things you can manually tweak the hints to make the rendering better.\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-14 20:18:14'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: 'And a prediction of the future: Hints will not be necessary at all :)'
  created: '2009-05-14 20:19:06'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">And a prediction of the future: Hints will not be necessary at all :)\r\n\r\nAgree,
    and I'd put that date at 1st July 2036.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si "
  created: '2009-05-15 00:36:14'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Goran: <em>And a prediction of the future: Hints will not be necessary at
    all.</em>\r\n\r\nAccording to Apple, the future is 2000. That's when we worked
    on a font for them and were told not to bother hinting it because OS X was going
    to ignore all hints henceforth."
  created: '2009-05-15 01:51:20'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Those Apple hinting patents expire this year, so we can expect a flurry of
    activity from Freetype implementers.  '
  created: '2009-05-15 04:12:10'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: I know little about hinting, but from what I've heard TrueType hinting is
    such a complicated art that there are only a couple of people in the world who
    can hint hangul (Korean alphabet) TrueType fonts well. So if I decide to learn
    TrueType hinting and it takes me years to master TrueType hinting for hangul,
    what are the chances that it will all be for nought because those hints will have
    been rendered obsolete by then?
  created: '2009-05-15 11:35:24'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Where can I find a beginner's guide to hinting? I want to decide if it's worth
    the effort or to just stick to autohinting.
  created: '2009-05-15 11:56:21'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > a beginner\u2019s guide to hinting</cite>\r\n\r\nThat might be an
    oxymoron ;-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-15 13:33:19'
- author:
    name: Tim Brown
    picture: 110622
  body: "If the reason hinting might \"become obsolete\" is that device resolution
    will increase so much that the human eye won't notice a pixel here, a pixel there,
    I would argue that there will always be room for low-resolution technology. Will
    we allow this segment of typographic practice to suffer? Or will the selection
    of typefaces for this segment always be limited due to the overhead of hinting?\r\n\r\nIf
    the process of hinting is unnecessarily complex, we should criticize it. On the
    other hand, if it is what I think it is \u2013\_many talented but autonomous professionals,
    working on their piece of the type rasterization assembly line \u2013\_we should
    try to clarify it, or at least talk with these professionals (and listen when
    they talk with one another)."
  created: '2009-05-15 13:48:46'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "I'm not sure every type designer should need to learn hinting.\r\n\r\nHaving
    such tasks as hinting lifted from your shoulders is one of the many good reasons
    to sign with a foundry who will do most of the technical work on your fonts :)"
  created: '2009-05-15 14:29:29'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "@Sii\r\nReally? The patents expire this year? You're meaning the patents
    within TrueType that effect hinting (the ones that forced Freetype to come up
    with their own method), not the anti-aliasing done by Quartz, correct?\r\n\r\nIf
    so, and Freetype gets to implement that, that's a boon to free OSes right? That
    would be one step in making them not-so-crappy looking."
  created: '2009-05-15 18:33:41'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Yep. Actually two of them must have expired last week. The last one on the
    28th of this month... Party!\r\n\r\nhttp://www.freetype.org/patents.html \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-15 18:42:17'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "<em>If so, and Freetype gets to implement that, that\u2019s a boon to free
    OSes right?</em>\r\n\r\nAFAIK the particular code is already implemented in FreeType,
    it's just disabled and you can enable it. E.g. if you are in some place where
    the patents don't apply or if you have a licence from Apple."
  created: '2009-05-15 18:49:33'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "AFAIK the patented TT instructions are not useful. They have had no effect
    on the quality of anti-aliased type. OS X might ignore all hints, but in the end
    it is y hinting, like everything else. Learning to y hint is pretty much like
    learning to design type with strict alignments. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-05-15 20:40:25'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">They have had no effect on the quality of anti-aliased type. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/nopatents_3896.png]"
  created: '2009-05-15 20:43:52'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/David_3456.jpg]'
  created: '2009-05-15 22:28:41'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Like I said, AFAIK the patented TT instructions are not useful. In the context
    of teaching someone what TT instructions can do for AA type, the patented TT instructions
    have no effect on the quality of anti-aliased type. FreeType is not waiting to
    'flurry' AFAIK.\r\n\r\nThe patented diagonal instruction should not be interpreted
    by feeble rendering, which is what sii's displaying, undoubtably on a windows
    machine. My guess is that the graphics state is not being properly managed in
    relation to the use of reference point settings during the positioning of certain
    diagonal stroke boundaries. \r\n\r\nSii, inform us of the age of this illustration,
    the source of the font and hints, please. :)\r\n\r\n>Basically: to what rendering
    concoctions are our web type specs subject?\r\nBasically, unless you 'demand'
    the web user alight on a standard CSS size, like 'medium', (so you can take over
    the sizing from there, if you can), you have no control over size.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-15 22:32:56'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "LOL, that picture is a persian extra's last look at life, where did you get
    it?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-05-15 22:36:06'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Well I wasn't going to post this version...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/David2_3425.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nSource...
    http://www.allposters.com/-sp/300-Posters_i2114246_.htm"
  created: '2009-05-15 22:38:32'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "The (rendering) image is taken from the Freetype patents page referenced
    earlier ... http://www.freetype.org/patents.html \r\n\r\nCheers, Si\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-15 22:39:09'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Miguel (Sousa) talks a little about hinting in his article about <a href="http://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/2009/05/times_reader_2.html">Times
    Reader 2.0</a>.
  created: '2009-05-15 23:19:33'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Correction on the expiry dates. According to http://lists.nongnu.org/archive/html/freetype-devel/2006-11/msg00006.html
    - The expiration dates are:\r\n\r\n  5,155,805:  October 13, 2009\r\n  5,159,668:
    \ October 27, 2009\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-15 23:38:18'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">The (rendering) image is taken from the Freetype patents page referenced...\r\nMS
    got screwed on Arial twice? ...the FreeTypers say these instructions are not an
    issue, and for this user's question, or any hinters issues, same goes. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-05-16 03:05:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...It\u2019s the portrayal of the historic Battle of Thermopylae in which
    King Leonidas and 300 Spartans battled to the death against Xerxes and his enormous
    Persian army.\"\r\n\r\nFunny, it doesn't look like Gerry :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-05-17 18:16:39'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > Where can I find a beginner\u2019s guide to hinting? </cite>\r\n\r\nBendy
    -- This time a little more helpful answer. I just ran across this article on the
    basic concepts of hinting, by the lead developer of Microsoft's Visual TrueType
    tool: http://www.microsoft.com/typography/tools/trtalr.aspx\r\n\r\nYou can be
    the judge of whether this qualifies as a \"beginner's guide.\""
  created: '2009-05-18 12:26:55'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Thanks Kent!
  created: '2009-05-18 13:36:01'
- author:
    name: Tim Brown
    picture: 110622
  body: Good stuff, Kent. Thanks!
  created: '2009-05-19 15:25:07'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "I've always thought the [[http://www.adobe.com/devnet/font/pdfs/T1_SPEC.PDF|Adobe
    Type 1 Font Format]] spec did a good job of explaining at least some of what's
    going on with Type 1 hinting.\r\n\r\nI am biased, but I've always liked the Type
    1 approach to hints. The key is in the word \"hints\"... they offer some advice
    about the dimensions of the font and its glyphs, which the renderer can use to
    make better decisions. TrueType instructions are cool (and there was a brief time
    many years ago when I did it \"professionally\"), but as many have observed, it's
    starting to look like a lot of hard labor for diminishing returns.\r\n\r\nEven
    if one imagines displays becoming more common in higher resolutions, Type 1 (PostScript,
    CFF, whatever) hints still look useful. Remember, Adobe's initial concern was
    making type look good on early 300 dpi printers, not screens. Of course, those
    printers didn't have the benefit of grayscale antialiasing as screens usually
    do, but still..."
  created: '2009-05-20 02:54:20'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "http://www.microsoft.com/typography/hinting/tutorial.htm\r\n\r\nand this
    one is a blast from the past not a leap to the Futura!"
  created: '2009-05-20 16:27:08'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: 'Christopher, your link is broken. I ran a couple of quick searches on the
    Adobe website but wasn''t able to find the Type 1 document. '
  created: '2010-09-29 20:10:15'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Firstly: Berlow with Bowflex abs, who'd a thunk?\r\n\r\nTim,\r\n\r\nThe data
    you seek has never been sought. There was never any reason to do so until web
    fonts. It is a riddle, wrapped in a mystery, inside an enigma. (10 bonus points
    for naming the source of that last sentence.)\r\n\r\nHave you noticed that Times
    New Roman looks crappy in IE9? (It's true, it does.)\r\n(Unless it's got something
    to do with running WIN 7 in a VM on the Mac but I don't think so.)\r\n\r\nI have
    been working heavily with Font Squirrel's TT autohinting - in collaboration with
    Ethan the past week - some useful approaches exist.\r\nYou can contact me through
    the usual channels but, as always, the Secretary will disavow any knowledge of
    our existence.\r\n\r\n<em>\"My guess is that the graphics state is not being properly
    managed in relation to the use of reference point settings during the positioning
    of certain diagonal stroke boundaries.\"</em>\r\n\r\nYeah, that was my guess,
    too. ;)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-29 20:39:30'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "\"I cannot forecast to you the action of Russia. It is a riddle, wrapped
    in a mystery, inside an enigma; but perhaps there is a key. That key is Russian
    national interest.\"\r\n\r\n\u2014 Winston Churchill, 1939"
  created: '2010-09-29 20:51:48'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Dunwich wrote:\r\n<em>I often wonder how many designers just run the Adobe
    auto-hinter and forget it because trying produce and test well-hinted cross-platform
    fonts seems to involve a tremendous amount of trial-and-error. I expect to see
    users demand great hinting as web fonts get rolling, but how many type designers
    have the time to hint fonts and test them on IE, Safari, Firefox, and various
    cellular platforms?</em>\r\n\r\nThat's exactly what you must do - test them in
    IE, Safari, Firefox, and Opera. The major mobile platforms, too, and find a middle
    ground.\r\nAnd so far, the tools to easily do that with each little change, don't
    exist so it's like pulling teeth. (Unless such tools exist. Anybody?)\r\n\r\nWelcome
    to the world of web. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-29 20:58:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Have you noticed that Times New Roman looks crappy in IE9?</em>\r\n\r\nTimes
    New Roman was never a good choice as a screen font. It ended up being a core font
    on computers because it was a core font on laser printers. The Windows version
    was brilliantly hinted for black and white full pixel rendering, but in antialiased
    and particularly subpixel environments you get greater fidelity to the outline
    forms, which in this case means greater fidelity to something that isn't well
    suited to being a screen type."
  created: '2010-09-29 21:42:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: However, Times was the best choice for a display-size screen font, due to
    the fine detail of its sharp serifs.
  created: '2010-09-29 21:46:25'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "R.Fink> That's exactly what you must do - test them ... and find a middle
    ground.\r\n\r\nMiddle ground huh? \r\n\r\nYou have to write complete y hints for
    many glyphs in all fonts that are going to appear well on Windows up to 67 pixels
    per em until the screen resolution horizon is 300 as far as you can see ahead
    and 120 as far as you can see behind.  You can only do a good job, no better or
    worse. If you do a good job, nobody notices or cares. And if you don't do a good
    job you get racked in the court of quality. Nobody wants to hear puny excuses
    about time and money, ya slackers. You can't steal hints and you can't autohint
    everything, so you've got to know something about hinting or cry. Oh yeah! and
    most fonts designed for print text don't work for web body text or smaller, so
    before you even start hinting, if you're planning on body type, start drawing
    like they were hinted already you lilly-livered sap-suckers. Go eat yer worms
    and like 'em, or go stand on the ruined wall and cry for mercy at the Gates who
    set loose the hounds of ClearType Hell.\r\n\r\nT.Brown> Basically: to what rendering
    concoctions are our web type specs subject?\r\n\r\nWhat indeed. The W3C's documentation
    for the \"text-rendering\" property is a good place to start. :)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-29 23:26:04'
- author:
    name: Frank ADEBIAYE
    picture: 112491
  body: I suggest setting up an h i n t parade of best practice regarding hinting
    for learning from others purpose
  created: '2010-10-01 09:38:29'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "<strong>A Psalm Of Raster</strong>\r\n<em>stand on the ruined wall\r\nand
    cry for mercy at the Gates\r\nwho set loose the hounds of ClearType Hell.</em>\r\n\r\nI've
    finally gotten down with IE9. Unless my eyes are lying, unlike the Mac - where
    the TT hints are thrown away - DirectWrite still interprets the TT hints.\r\nYes?
    Others seeing this?\r\n\r\nWith variations between platforms AND between user
    agents, too, testing, testing, testing, and looking for patterns - corridors of
    safe passage - seems the only thing to do.\r\nFrom that, hopefully, will come
    best practices.\r\n\r\nHow far from \"print fonts\" \"web fonts\" will fork, can't
    know yet.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-01 14:31:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: ">>With variations between platforms AND between user agents, too, testing,
    <<\r\n\r\nLooking through rose colored or lime colored glasses as you traverse
    the browser spectrum."
  created: '2010-10-01 14:51:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Rich: <em>DirectWrite still interprets the TT hints.</em>\r\n\r\nYes. Of
    course. Did anyone suggest otherwise?"
  created: '2010-10-02 03:20:53'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Rich>....unlike the Mac - where the TT hints are thrown away - \r\n\r\nTo
    be complete, the TT specification is thrown away.\r\n\r\n>DirectWrite still interps
    the TT hints.\r\n\r\nTo be complete, DW still interps some TT hints.\r\n\r\nFrank>I
    suggest setting up an h i n t parade of best practice \r\n\r\nI'll build a float. "
  created: '2010-10-02 13:37:05'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "JH>Yes. Of course. Did anyone suggest otherwise?\r\n\r\nNo. And, stupid me,
    of course they would. Although Berlow says \"some\".\r\nI don't really know what
    I expected to see.\r\nIt just surprised me for some reason that a badly hinted
    TTF still looks like exactly that.\r\n\r\nNow I'm wondering what it looks like
    with the hints stripped, delivered as a PS font.\r\n\r\nAlso, it seems IE9 beta
    is making multiple http calls - one for each font in the font stack. It isn't
    stopping at the first one it supports - like woff. A syntax thing? Not sure yet.\r\n\r\nI'll
    know more by the end of today.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-02 14:02:16'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Oy, oy, oy...\r\n\r\nFrom the IE9 docs:\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ff986079(v=VS.85).aspx\">Text
    Layout Uses Natural Metrics</a>\r\n\r\nNow we have \"natural metrics\" versus
    \"GDI metrics\" depending upon what mode IE9 is running in.\r\n\r\nYou have to
    admit IE9 is a good value - you get no less than four browsers for the price of
    one."
  created: '2010-10-02 14:40:29'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">You have to admit IE9 is a good value - you get no less than four browsers
    for the price of one.\r\n\r\n..and that means with each font you use, you get
    4 times as many apparent type styles!"
  created: '2010-10-05 15:20:48'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "DB>..and that means with each font you use, you get 4 times as many apparent
    type styles!\r\n\r\nA great feature!\r\n\r\nBTW - I've been testing IE9 and can't
    make heads or tails out of what's going on.\r\nIE9 pulls ALL the fonts in the
    font stack for every @font-face font-family. EOT, WOFF, TTF, every one listed.
    I could test for which one it's rendering, but this behavior is so whacked I'm
    wondering if I should just wait for the next release. I'm going to email the usual
    suspects and see if I can get answers.\r\n\r\nAre they trying to collect telemetry
    on what @font-face fonts are out there while IE9 is still in beta and the gettin's
    good?\r\n\r\nAlso, I have come to a conclusion about IE's blocking anything less
    than \"installable\" in a TTF or OTF.\r\n\r\nI'll go into that elsewhere."
  created: '2010-10-05 16:37:26'
date: '2009-05-14 14:52:53'
title: Who else wants to understand hinting?

---
