---
author:
  name: gohebrew
  picture: 112525
body: "Many have tried and failed to merge Hebrew into English, or vice versa, on
  the font design level.\r\n\r\nAfter all, a Semetic typeface stresses horizontal
  scribe-like strokes, and a European style typefac stresses vertical cut metal-like
  bars. So, how can they be merged successfully.\r\n\r\nGill tried and failed with
  each experimentation. Others also fell by the wayside.\r\n\r\nFinally, Boruch Gorkin
  (Monotype licensor to MicroSoft and Apple licencees), a brilliant designer in Manhattan
  of Russian descent (see www,boruchgorkin.com) succeded in part to make a Hebrew
  version of Monotype's Ariel (weatch out for those Russians).\r\n\r\nBut Ariel was
  a sans serif with almost the same stroke widths horizontal and vertical. He based
  his design upon Tzvi Narkiss' popular Narkiss design, adjusting its stroke width
  a bit, and height to sit between the x-height of the English lowercase and the top
  of the English uppercase, and improved upon a bit of Narkiss' design.\r\n\r\nBut
  could anyone make a merger in a serif design for Hebrew with varying widths for
  the horizontal and vertical strokes, and match the overall color of the page in
  either language?\r\n\r\nThis blog shows how."
comments:
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Is it possible to place an English font text with vertical dominant bars,
    like in Minion, alongside a Hebrew font text with horizontal dominant strokes?
    Seems impossible, ayh?\r\n\r\nWon't the Hebrew look radically different from the
    English, and vice versa, in both structure and relative black-white ratio per
    inch. The Hebrew letterforms will look darker, wider, shorter,compared to the
    English letterforms, besides the obvious design differences in orientation.\r\n\r\nSo,
    the differences are four-fold:\r\n1. Hebrew is horizontal stroke dominant, while
    English is vertical stroke dominant;\r\n2. Hebrew seems darker, while English
    seems balanced in color distribution;\r\n3. Hebrew letterforms are proportionately
    wider in relationship to English letterforms;\r\n4. Hebrew are proportionately
    shorter in relationship to English letterforms; see Microsoft's poor renditions
    of popular Hebrew typefaces, often matching by error the single case Hebrew to
    the lowercase of English. Clearly, a non-Hebrew reader did this, as to most every
    Hebrew reader, this looks too small for the type size, rendering it ridiculous
    like a clown wear long pants that are too short for his legs.\r\n\r\nHow can these
    4 challenges be overcome?"
  created: '2009-05-15 08:46:59'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "1. The orientation difference of horizontal dominance and vertical dominance.\r\n\r\nLatin
    letterforms are printed, and therefore are individual units where the distinction
    between letters are its dominant vertical bars.\r\n\r\nNon-Latim letterforms are
    scribed, and therefore are much like joined units where the joining-like effect
    are the dominant horizontal strokes.\r\n\r\nIf a Latin face has alternatively
    dominant horizontal strokes, it looks odd. Conversely, if a non-Latin face has
    alternatively dominant vertical strokes, it looks odd.\r\n\r\nWhat are we gonna
    do?\r\n\r\nWell, this is each group's nature. Change here is unnatural, even perverse.\r\n\r\nThe
    way to overcome the natural diversity is found in its bigger picture.\r\n\r\nSomewhat
    like the saying about seeing the tree and missing  the forest, here it's the very
    opposite: ignore the tree and see the forest.\r\n\r\nWhat does this mean in our
    context?\r\n\r\nEvery configuration of text on a page creates a color, a ratio
    of black to white in a given space.\r\n\r\nTo merge English with Hebrew requires
    a similar and compatible, even complimentary, color ratio of black to white in
    a given space. The greatest completion of English with Hebrew is total submission,
    where each blends in together. While compability is only a merger which makes
    due."
  created: '2009-05-15 09:04:33'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "2. Hebrew seems darker, while English seems balanced in color distribution;\r\n\r\nSince
    the eye is tricked by the different orientation, and Hebrew verticasl strokes
    are often heavier than English vertical bars, the result is that the Hebrew text
    seems darker than the English.\r\n\r\nThe way to overcome this is by adjusting
    the letterspacing, or better the side bars, slightly, so the Hebrew text seems
    lighter to look at, and better match the English.'\r\n\r\n3. Hebrew letterforms
    are proportionately wider in relationship to English letterforms;\r\n\r\nHebrew
    is meant to be understood and concentrated upon. Therefore it's wider than English.\r\n\r\nEnglish
    is made to be read speedily. Therefore, it's narrower than Hebrew.\r\n\r\nIn general,
    as any Hebrew thinker knows, thinking in English is more superficial, because
    its letterforms are more narrow. Thinking in Hebrew is much deeper and meaningful,
    because its letterforms are wider. Broadmindedness versus shallowness. This is
    why Israeli intelligence supercedes even American intelligence.\r\n\r\nArabic
    and Iranian etc. thinking and intelligence will be discussed later.\r\n\r\nTo
    compensate for this awkward sense when English and Hebrew is combined in the same
    sentence or paragraph etc., and the way to merge English and Hebrew successfully,
    is to raise the height of the Hebrew letters to a little below the height of the
    English uppercase, and well above the height of the English lowercase.\r\n\r\nIn
    general, the height and the inter-letterspacing is adjusted carefully to create
    the illusion of compatibility or completion between the languages."
  created: '2009-05-15 09:23:41'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "4. Hebrew are proportionately shorter in relationship to English letterforms\r\n\r\nAs
    above in #3.\r\n\r\n\r\nThere is another factor which I am not listing. Each language's
    text or book font must be silent, not show-offish, and conducive to blending.\r\n\r\nFor
    example, Gorkin's version of Narkiss is blendable. Frank's modification of Vilna
    is blendable. Even Itamar David's very popular David blends in with a subtle falair.\r\n\r\nEliyahu
    Koren's clown-like Koren is not a good text typeface, because it's most every
    letter shouts \"look at me; I'm a star\". Don't get me wrong it's a beautiful
    design as display or decorative, but it's not for text.\r\n\r\nEliyahu Koren typeset
    the Bible and the Jewish prayerbook with the Koren typeface for decades. It became
    a default standard book font, but it's is really not at all. Study its design
    and just admit it."
  created: '2009-05-15 09:36:50'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "There is another avenue to make the English letters match the Hebrew letters.\r\n\r\nIf
    the type design matches the English horizontal stroke width to the Hebrew vertical
    stroke width, then yet another dynamic is created, reducing the need for extra
    inner-letterspacing. Less increasing of the inner-letterspacing is necessary,
    because the overall color of the Hebrew is much less darker than the overall color
    of the English.\r\n\r\nThe following pages cite visual demonstrations of the above
    discussed concepts."
  created: '2009-05-15 09:42:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "My view on this is that when the normative forms of two different scripts
    rely on distinct stroke contrast patterns, one must seek to harmonise the overall
    impact of the type on the page, rather than do violence to either script trying
    to distort it to match the other. Harmonising the weights of the two scripts so
    that they produce a similar texture on the page is not as simple as harmonising
    stroke weights, regardless of contrast patterns, because one needs to take into
    account also the characteristic shapes and letter densities of the two scripts.
    In this respect, Hebrew and Latin types are in some ways easier to harmonise than
    Latin and scripts with greater density, e.g. Korean or Chinese.\r\n\r\nI've noticed
    that in Israeli typography, it is common for the Hebrew letters to correspond
    to the x-height of a matched Latin design. Whereas in European scholarly publishing
    it is usual for the Hebrew letters to stand taller, between the Latin x-height
    and cap-height. Either approach can be made to work if compensations are made
    in other ways for the stroke weight and density."
  created: '2009-05-15 23:49:30'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "<cite>In this respect, Hebrew and Latin types are in some ways easier to
    harmonise than Latin and scripts with greater density, e.g. Korean or Chinese.</cite>\r\n\r\nHear,
    hear. I recall seeing a publication (a calendar?) featuring Korean and Arabic
    (or Kurdish in the Arabic script; I don't remember) side by side. When you have
    two scripts that are so different in overall structure let alone stroke contrast
    patterns, you just have to give up and hope that the differences in texture on
    the page for the two scripts are not too jarring."
  created: '2009-05-16 00:29:23'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John, this is incorrect.\r\n\r\n<cite> I\u2019ve noticed that in Israeli
    typography, it is common for the Hebrew letters to correspond to the x-height
    of a matched Latin design. </cite>\r\n\r\nCertain Hebrew fonts made by some Americans
    etc., who knew not Hebrew, did this mistakenly. People like you then wrongly think,
    G-d has spoken. By doing so, Hebrew is way too small at a readable point size,
    like the English. Rather, the Hebrew needs to be higher, but not up to the height
    of the English uppercase, which makes the Hebrew appear way too big."
  created: '2009-05-22 18:33:16'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "<cite> Either approach can be made to work. </cite>\r\n\r\nI disagree.\r\n\r\nScott-Martin,
    what do you say?\r\n\r\nRaphael, what do you say?"
  created: '2009-05-22 18:36:17'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "Well in regards to Koren, I couldn't disagree more (but then again, I'm kind
    of biased).\r\n\r\nI think you, as an American, are looking at Hebrew typefaces
    as an American. As a religious Jew, you are looking at the Hebrew typeface as
    a religious text.\r\n\r\nI do too. It's a problem. I can look at a book typeset
    in an English font and immediately tell you if it looks good or not, and why.
    In Hebrew, since I was brought up in the UK, I cannot do this to the same extent.\r\n\r\nIn
    Israel, amongst Israelis, Koren is considered to be one of the most legible and
    beautiful Hebrew typefaces in the world. However, foreigners, used to Vilna and
    the like from their old prayer books, find it unusual.\r\n\r\nIt will be interesting
    to see what happens with this over the next 30 years as the Koren Siddur is now
    being adopted in American Jewish congregations.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-24 15:35:11'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "> Either approach can be made to work.\r\n\r\nI both agree and disagree.
    Imo it depends on the situation. The most correct approach for most situations
    is to, as Israel pointed out, align the Hebrew body height somewhere between the
    Latin cap- and x-height. This works best with Latin upper- & lowercase. With the
    somewhat rare, but feasible, lowercase-only situation, then the Hebrew body height
    can be correctly scaled to x-height. With all-cap Latin, the Hebrew body height
    should be scaled to cap-height."
  created: '2010-10-13 18:12:27'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael:\r\n\r\n>> In Israel, amongst Israelis, Koren is considered to be
    one of the most legible and beautiful Hebrew typefaces in the world. However,
    foreigners, used to Vilna and the like from their old prayer books, find it unusual.\r\n\r\n\r\nWith
    all dues respect to Eliyahu Koren zal's greatness as a designer, and Raphael's
    trailblazing work as a typesetter, this statement is simply untrue and stems from
    Raphael's commercial interests.\r\n\r\nThere are a few Hebrew designs, FrankReuhl,
    Vilna, Hadasa, David, and Narkis, which excel in popularity in Israel, and Koren
    follows far behind.\r\n\r\nKoren is based upon an ancient Ashkenazic design which
    preceded the inventions of the printing presses in various parts of the world.
    Eliyahu Koren zal hacked this design, did not credit its source, and popularized
    it in the famous Koren Bible. It is not legible, way too narrow, and has too much
    space between the nikud and the letters, due to the severe limitations of the
    typesetting machinery of Koren's day.\r\n\r\nFreeman wants to claim Koren's defects
    are advantages. I want to sell you Brooklyn Bridge."
  created: '2010-10-13 23:30:58'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "An interesting disagreement. I wish I could have another's opinion of this.
    Koren looks to me like it should be very legible, because of the variation in
    the design. But I can't speak or read Hebrew; I only know a few words.\r\n\r\nI
    am making a Hebrew typeface and trying to design it to work well with my Neuton
    Latin. My main reference has been Hadassa, Ezra SIL, and Koren. I'm wondering
    if I should reconsider this."
  created: '2010-10-14 00:01:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Israel, your personal attacks are revolting. What happened to judging people
    in a favorable light (l'chaf zechut)?\r\n\r\nPersonally, I really admire the Koren
    Siddur face. The Bible face not as much. Zvi Narkis's Hebrew typefaces are very
    worthy of study.   "
  created: '2010-10-14 03:50:27'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Moshe Spitzer:\r\n\"The Sephardic Koren, designed by Eliyahu Korngold-Koren...Its
    bold version has been used with great success for the printing of a Hebrew Bible
    (Koren Publishers, Jerusalem), which was issued in three different formats...in
    all three sizes the page is pleasing to the eye and very legible.\""
  created: '2010-10-14 04:21:06'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\nWhat personal attack? \r\n\r\nWide letters are legible is Hebrew
    with non-sharp edges. Ask any scribe.\r\n\r\nIt's not personal. Raphael is my
    friend, who I admire and think highly of as a person, and an artist, like you.\r\n\r\nAre
    you reading into my words, known in modern psychology as projection, which the
    holy Baal Shem Tov discussed long before there was a discipline called modern
    psychology?"
  created: '2010-10-14 04:38:16'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nSpitzers word resonate correct criticism.\r\n\r\nThe Bible
    is a special work, treated as holy by both Jew and gentile. It deserves a special
    font. \r\n\r\nKoren though fails where the eyes concentrates, like in a siddur,
    a text book of novellae Torah, or an even a lowly newspaper.\r\n\r\nHence,, it
    was never used that way, until Koren Publishing peddling the OU. In 25 to 50 years,
    it will disappear, and be replaced with Scott-Martin Kesofsky's Milon, Shlomo,
    or New Romm Vilna."
  created: '2010-10-14 04:46:22'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Israel, you have said that Raphael said untrue things because of commercial
    interests. And that Koren "hacked his design and did not credit its source." On
    what planet are these not personal attacks? '
  created: '2010-10-14 05:05:42'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\nAgain, I like Raphael, and respect him very much. Eliyahu Koren
    zal was a world class typographer.\r\n\r\nBut I call a spade a spade.\r\n\r\nA
    mensch might be politically correct, but isn't being a brown nose?\r\n\r\nNarkiss'
    design originated in the concentration camps. It was never credited. Why?\r\nKoren's
    famous design appeared in old manuscripts. It was never credited. Why?\r\nFreeman
    peedles the Koren design as if G-d drew it. It was never used before except for
    the Bible, and a few ads. What changed besides his hype?"
  created: '2010-10-14 05:25:35'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: It may be that the inspiration for these designs was either not considered,
    or not considered important <em>because</em> it was found on old manuscripts.
    Of course, I would think being used on old manuscripts would be a selling point,
    so it's really a tough call.
  created: '2010-10-14 06:30:29'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "There is a lesson found in the Talmud's Chapters of our Fathers drawn from
    Queen Esther's attributing something to her uncle Rabbi Mordechai the Binyominite.
    The Talmud says such humble action causes to hasten the the Final Redemption.\r\n\r\nSome
    people can not attribute much or even anything to another, fearing that they will
    receive less honor than if people thought that they innovated that thing.\r\n\r\nHere
    too, Narkiss and Koren failed to attribute their source of inspiration, fearing
    that they would not be regarded as creating these designs but merely reviving
    them.\r\n\r\nJust call a spade a spade."
  created: '2010-10-14 07:39:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">call a spade a spade. \r\n\r\nWhere is that in the Talmud? It's not. Rather:
    being rude under the excuse of honesty is a violation of Jewish ethics. You are
    not permitted to defame others, even if it's true\u2014not that I concede that
    any of your accusations of others are true. When you say things that disparage
    others, it is not permitted, even if true, as Maimonides makes very clear.  \r\n\r\nWhile
    there are permitted exceptions, your personal attacks here are gratuitous; they
    are stinking up the forum, and discouraging others from participating. Please
    stop.  "
  created: '2010-10-14 14:31:24'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David, \r\n\r\nI disagree with Moshe Spitzer with all due respect.\r\n\r\nKoren
    is not a design with major Sephardic-like roots. It is an Ashkenazic design that
    has certain Sephardic-like influences.\r\n\r\nWe see this in John  Hudson's Adobe
    Hebrew - a design composed of different influences. A bastard design if you will.
    :)\r\n\r\nWhy is this unprofessiional scholar correct, and he erred?\r\n\r\n1)
    If you survey most Hebrew type designs, you will find certain common elements
    among designs of Sephardic origin, and those of Ashkenazic origin. Koren falls
    into former category.\r\n\r\n2) I saw an ancient document hand scribed in the
    Koren lettering design, long before there was a printing press and Eliyahu Koren's
    early ancestors lived, but long after Elijah (Eliyahu in Hebrew) the prophet ascended
    alive to heaven (5 person have done so until now).\r\n\r\nWho is Moshe anyway,
    a chiloni dib?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-14 14:32:34'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: Anyone have an example of this ancient document that influenced Koren's design?
    I'd like to see it.
  created: '2010-10-14 14:47:31'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I saw one is a book I looked at in the great type library in Rochester, NY
    at RIT.\r\n\r\nRegretfully, I didn't make a copy of it and other important findings.
    I intend to return there in a few years.\r\n\r\nI am researching the origins of
    the Romm Vilna typeface design to document Goudy's account.\r\n\r\nDoes any one
    know any leads?"
  created: '2010-10-14 15:18:56'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "I don't know any leads on that....\r\n\r\nDo you know the name of that book
    at RIT?"
  created: '2010-10-14 21:20:53'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "no, i looked at a bunch of them. magazines too. they a lot of stuff. a lot.
    shelves and shelves/\r\nthe librarian picked the books.\r\nhe is now head of whole
    library\r\n\r\nscott knows his name.\r\na gentile from crown height. a chabad
    gentile. :)\r\n\r\neverything is hasgacha elyona"
  created: '2010-10-15 00:25:46'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I will post b\"n a sample of GH New Crown very, which is meant to be used
    with Monotype's  New Times Roman, dedicated to the great graphic artist, Boruch
    Gorkin. \r\n\r\nBoth side by side Biblical Hebrew text with appear, as well as
    mixed prayerbook text.\r\n\r\nCreated in MS Volt in a new project written by me,
    inspired by John Hudson. This Volt project has no bugs, John.\r\n\r\nI'm working
    on the automatic shva, but the sample will have the manual shvah."
  created: '2010-10-15 01:41:33'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\n> Israel, you have said that Raphael said untrue things because
    of commercial interests. And that Koren \"hacked his design and did not credit
    its source.\" On what planet are these not personal attacks?\r\n\r\n\r\nSo did
    Brian, but you were quiet. It seems you treat the frum different. This is hypocracy
    and self-hatred.\r\n\r\n\r\nIt is a documented fact. Koren took a design centuries
    old and attributed to himself. Is that a hack or not, Bill?\r\n\r\nHe of course
    was a great typographer, but let's not allude ourselves. Narkiss was greater.
    Friedlaender was even greater. David was even greater.\r\n\r\nAnd Scott might
    become even greater if his dreams come true. Shlomo is many weights. A serif set.
    A new Romm Vilna. A sans set. Other creations. David did an amazing portfolio.
    If Scott does another, he'll be greater.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-15 01:58:54'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\n>call a spade a spade.\r\n\r\nWhere is that in the Talmud? It's
    not. Rather: being rude under the excuse of honesty is a violation of Jewish ethics.
    You are not permitted to defame others, even if it's true\u2014not that I concede
    that any of your accusations of others are true. When you say things that disparage
    others, it is not permitted, even if true, as Maimonides makes very clear.\r\n\r\nWhile
    there are permitted exceptions, your personal attacks here are gratuitous; they
    are stinking up the forum, and discouraging others from participating. Please
    stop.\r\n\r\n===\r\n\r\nModeh al haemes. Do not speal sheker.\r\n\r\nRude is a
    relative social issue. To Nazi society, rude was being Jewish.\r\n\r\nDefame others,
    no. If that person did something sickening, you are obligated to warn others.
    Obligated. But in Reform ediquette and political corrective niceness, we live
    and let live. Guy by gay.\r\n\r\nRambam is melamed zchus on a shomer shabbos shomer
    kashrus, as ruled in the Codes of Jewish law. He respected halacha and believed
    100% in Torah. You believe in what you think is common sense, sechel and reforming
    the Creator to be in your image.\r\n\r\nI'll stop after you stop. It's a two-way
    street. Remember, you threw the first stone. And I am not a pacifist, and don't
    turn my other cheek."
  created: '2010-10-15 02:10:22'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">you threw the first stone\r\n\r\nYou're saying that you were obliged to
    throw stones at all these other designers, and that you didn't throw stones at
    all. Rather it was I, by complaining, who threw stones. That's all a bundle of
    contradictions, but I'm done trying to reason with you. \r\n\r\nI just wish you'd
    stick to type, and if you feel you have any warning to do about people, do it
    privately. "
  created: '2010-10-15 03:15:57'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\n>>  ...You're saying that you were obliged to throw stones at
    all these other designers, and that you didn't throw stones at all. ...\r\n\r\nNo,
    just at your pretty face!\r\n\r\nIf someone, no matter how precious, throws a
    stone at me, I pick it up and lobbat it back at him.\r\n\r\nMy reform rabbi, Rabbi
    Izzy K. taught me that.\r\n\r\nAs it says in the 10 and a half commandments:\r\n\r\n10.5)
    Thou shalt throw stones\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nDoesn't it, David?"
  created: '2010-10-15 03:28:30'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\n>>  I just wish you'd stick to type, and if you feel you have
    any warning to do about people, do it privately.\r\n\r\nAs Teddy R. said: Speak
    gently, but carry a big stick, and a bag of rocks."
  created: '2010-10-15 03:30:32'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: Does anyone know the name of the head librarian at RIT?
  created: '2010-10-15 03:41:54'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Scott-Martin Kesofsky know him personally.\r\n\r\nPlus he knows the library
    in France which has the world's largest collection of type specimens, followed
    by RIT."
  created: '2010-10-15 03:51:14'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: Yes; although I can't seem to locate his contact information, or any of the
    types he designed... Rather frustrating.
  created: '2010-10-15 04:14:24'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: go to http://typophile.com/user/39882
  created: '2010-10-15 04:16:54'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: Thank you.
  created: '2010-10-15 04:41:59'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: .[[http://library.rit.edu/cary/CCpages/CCContact.html|Google is your friend.]]
  created: '2010-10-15 18:52:42'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "bill,\r\n\r\nis google jewish?\r\nsome say he's conservative...uhh...she\r\n\r\nshabbat
    shalom!"
  created: '2010-10-15 21:49:10'
- author:
    name: Michael Cunliffe Thompson
    picture: 109540
  body: "We should all be grateful to \"goHebrew\" for keeping this forum lively!\r\nOutrage
    after outrage...\r\nMike"
  created: '2010-10-16 01:46:25'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Lively?\r\n\r\nI once knew a deadbeat from the early 50s.\r\n\r\nAlas, now
    he's dead.\r\n\r\nUnlike Bin Laden, who former President George W. Bush\r\nsaid
    that wanted 'dead or alive',\r\n\r\nthis deadbeat was wanted only alive."
  created: '2010-10-17 00:57:34'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "gohebrew: I'm a little confused. First you spend a few days telling me that
    you created your Crown font from a document from RIT that had been done before
    the age of the printing press and then you remember that actually it was from
    a book on typefaces that you bought a flea market in Israel.\r\n\r\nI would love
    to know which one it was and if it's the latter (which is what you told me a few
    years ago on the telephone), then would you mind scanning in the page because
    it's been talked so much about that I think everyone on this forum would love
    to see.\r\n\r\nI posted on the Microsoft thread the prototype version of Koren
    that was done by hand on the book of Jonah. I have taken the liberty of reposting
    here too. I think that this demonstrates the evolution from that to the currect
    Koren (not Koreen or Keren or Crown versions of the) font.\r\n\r\nI would be curious
    to see if this image in any way can been seen as an evolution from your source
    and if so, it would be amazing to see that you skipped a step in total isolation
    and arrived at a very similar result.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Yonah_4962.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-17 14:43:55'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "I reset the first two lines of the same text in InDesign CS5 ME in Koren:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bit
    of yonah_6009.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-17 14:52:55'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "This is improved, but...\r\n\r\nthe diacritics are too low, Koren Bible style\r\nthe
    meteg is too close to the nikkud\r\n-it is higher than the nikkud\r\n- some taamim
    are lower while others are at the nikkud's height level\r\n \r\nmuch is either
    koren bible style or due to the very large nikkud\r\nmost hebrew fonts do not
    have such large nikkud\r\nfor the koren bible it worked, but for most jobs it
    doesn't\r\n\r\ni recall now that for crown i cut apart the sample\r\nand assemble
    different letters on a post board\r\nlike rashi and romm vilna\r\ni lacked different
    crown letters, not many\r\ni enlargenned the poster board on a stat machine, not
    a copy machine\r\nthis produces great quality\r\ni supplemented the missing letters
    from another source\r\nperhaps the source for the bold\r\ni never had a light\r\nthe
    bold source was giant\r\ni no longer have it\r\ni never completed crown for two
    decades\r\ni rotated some of the letters\r\ncleaned up the scans\r\ncopyrighted
    a very early version\r\nonly added nikkud from henri designed by john hudson (the
    nikkud etc)\r\nmuch better than in koren\r\neliyahu lifted the nikkud from another
    font\r\nthey simply don't match\r\n\r\nraphael, you are reviving koren\r\nthis
    is a great thing\r\nbefore kp you wouldn't have bragged about it so much\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-17 16:13:25'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "On the subject of merging Hebrew and English...\r\n\r\nAfter Charlemagne
    originated the notion of using the Latin alphabet with capital letters based on
    Roman monumental script, and lowercase letters based on the uncial, this practice
    was spread to the Greek language - and Armenian and Cyrillic also have upper and
    lower case.\r\n\r\nI came across this article a while back,\r\n\r\n[[http://onthemainline.blogspot.com/2006/02/hebrew-alphabet-reform_13.html]]\r\n\r\nabout
    a bizarre proposal to give Hebrew a lower case. I would think that there's a much
    simpler way to make a Hebrew with a lower case, without having to redraw the letters
    in a foreign style, if anyone wanted it.\r\n\r\nJust make the conventional square
    script the upper case, and the ancient forms of the letters - in the Paleo Mesha
    style, where the ascenders and descenders are pronounced - the lowercase!\r\n\r\nThere
    was even Eric Gill's odd attempt at making Hebrew look more like the Latin alphabet.
    While giving Gujarati that treatment might produce interesting results, and this
    is no worse than many other cute display faces, the serifs point the wrong way.\r\n\r\nAh,
    and here's another interesting article:\r\n\r\n[[http://stbride.org/friends/conference/badtype/aleph-x.html]]"
  created: '2010-10-18 01:39:34'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "This isn't a \"revival\" of Koren. This <em>is</em> Koren!\r\n\r\nI wanted
    to post the Koren lines to demonstrate the evolution of Koren's prototype to his
    final font. I'm not posting to get your opinion on the font. I'm showing you how
    he arrived at this font.\r\n\r\nYou, on the other hand, keep saying how your Crown
    is authentic, it was done based on some piece of paper that has disappeared. \r\n\r\nThat
    is all. \r\n\r\nIn the digitisation process we were not looking to improve or
    change the Koren font. It is 100% the same. When we print from the new font, you
    can't tell the difference from text being set from lead and from opentype. It's
    critical for us to have that ability."
  created: '2010-10-18 05:09:03'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "A revival means just like the real thing.\r\n\r\nA rendition or version is
    an interpretation."
  created: '2010-10-18 05:22:55'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "No the source of the bold disappeared.\r\nActually, it wasn't a piece of
    paper. It was a page of a book, torn is into many pieces.\r\n\r\nAsk Tzvika, he
    likely has the book too. It made for guys like us.\r\n\r\n\r\nThe source of the
    book form is in RIT."
  created: '2010-10-18 05:26:52'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Post the transgression that Koren drew. Why did you change your mind?\r\nCrown
    look like the beginning versions, and Koren looks like end of the line.\r\n\r\nIf
    it does, then my argument gets stronger."
  created: '2010-10-18 05:30:28'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "Where did I change my mind?\r\n\r\nI posted the Yona and then the final.
    I think your version looks much closer to the final than the Yona version.\r\n\r\nWhat
    do others think?"
  created: '2010-10-18 06:41:23'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "oh, i thought that you have a series of drawings,\r\na progression of designs\r\nleading
    up to the final version\r\n\r\nyou said keren was not the same\r\n\r\nand my crown
    was even father, but was similar to his early drawing\r\n\r\nthen tzika's kereen
    was similar but not 100%\r\n\r\nso i expected to see a series of drawings\r\nand
    my crown was like an early version\r\n\r\nthen an rit drawing would show up\r\nit'd
    mean your koren evolved from something very old"
  created: '2010-10-18 06:50:05'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "gohebrew: this conversation is going round in circles. Until you come up
    with this drawing of yours, this is all conjecture. \r\n\r\nWhy don't we take
    a rest from this circular argument until you find your drawing. If it doesn't
    exist, it will be a difference of opinion. "
  created: '2010-10-18 13:29:56'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: Btw your kids are cute.
  created: '2010-10-18 14:25:24'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Well, Raphael, so is your claim that Koren pulled his typeface out of a hat.
    And the hat he wore to cover his genius. \r\n\r\nIf he was such a great genius,
    why did he only make one face. Maybe, you'll refer to his Siddur font with the
    dorky aleph. Personally, I think the Siddur face reflects the opposite of genius.\r\n\r\nFriedlaender
    never claimed that he had no major influences. He never claimed genius. But his
    Hadasa was also great. \r\n\r\nI think it is much greater than Koren.\r\n\r\nAbout
    the drawing at RIT, I have no need to find it again. For you - what a joke!\r\n\r\nIf
    you want to sue me for Crown, which is more authentic than Koren's with stolen
    nikkud and lack of acknowledgement of his sources.\r\n\r\nSue. I could use the
    publicity. \r\n\r\nShould I donate it to Microsoft for Office. Bill Gates is becoming
    a tzaddik goy - he said, the wealthy billionaires should give away 90% of their
    wealth; the remainder is enough to enjoy the rest of life. Sounds like a tzaddik
    to me."
  created: '2010-10-18 14:30:17'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "I don't think he pulled the typeface out of a hat. I think he studied many
    manuscripts and had a instinct as to what the form of the letter should be. I
    think he then started to draw letters which he put into Yona. After setting the
    chapter, he started to turn it into a digital font. I don't think Koren ever claimed
    he was a genius and I certainly have never made such a claim. You have said he
    was a genius, these are not my words. There was a study done on the differences
    between the Siddur font and the Tanakh font by Simon Prais. If you don't like
    the font, why don't you say that you don't like the font. Why talk about genius
    and other typographers. If I am critiquing your typeface, I don't prove my point
    by saying that some other type designer is a friend of mine on facebook. I critique
    the font based on my opinion.\r\n\r\nWho said he only made one face? He made 2
    Koren faces, the Tanakh and the Siddur which are quite different (not just the
    aleph), 3 Rashi faces, and a sans serif face. He also worked on a number of different
    faces too, but remember what Koren brought to the world wasn't just a few typefaces,
    but rather his Tanakh which is considered to be the most accurate in the world
    and his siddurim which again are world-acclaimed for their accuracy. I think you
    really don't understand what Koren is about.\r\n\r\nPlease do find the drawing,
    just for me. Thanks :-)\r\n\r\nI've never suggested suing anybody. I've tried
    to keep the threads on the forum about typography and not about law, or religion
    or philosophy or anything else. Thanks for the compliment about my kids, but again
    not appropriate for a forum on typography (unless you think that they resemble
    some font). That is what facebook is for not typophile.\r\n\r\nI think that the
    original link by William Berkson was posting something that is of interest to
    people who design fonts and brings up an interesting discussion on what is \"okay\"
    and what is not \"okay\" in the typographic world. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-18 15:31:39'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Koren fonts\r\nSo far, we saw 3 fonts. You say there are more. Please post
    samples of them. Do you have drawings of them too?\r\n\r\nWas Koren a Genius?\r\nClearly,
    he was a very talented and great type professional. His Tanach was a great feat,
    and people check their texts against it, as I do.\r\n\r\nLost Manuscript\r\nBlee
    neder, I shall find the lost manuscript at RIT, but it may be in a few years when
    I go to the Vogel's wedding for Mushka. Rabbi Vogel is from London, and played
    with diamonds as a kid, when we played with jacks. But only if you post his Rashis.
    :)\r\n\r\nReadability\r\nI contend the Koren font is not readable to the Hebrew
    reader. To me, it's a no brainer. You site the Israeli reading experts that he
    went to for advice. That's commendable, but often such experts in Israel just
    say the opposite that chazal say. So, whoee whoee on them.\r\n\r\nCute kids on
    Facebook\r\nAs one who has no derech eretz, or limud zchus for people who laugh
    at shmirat shabbat or shmirat kashrut (see Codes of Jewish law regarding when
    to appy this and when it's assur), I try to instill a sense of personality and
    warmth her. Type expresses feeling, so we should express feeling.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-18 17:30:24'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "Yes he did design more. We are currently digitising one of his Rashi's which
    I like very much. For obvious reasons, I'm hardly going to post them on the internet!\r\n\r\nAgain,
    I never contended he was a genius. You keep saying that.\r\n\r\nIf you don't think
    the Koren font is readable then that's okay. I'm not offended. I'm just saying
    what his process was. Whether you (or I for that matter) think it was a good process
    or not is irrelevant. I'm establishing the evolution of the font from what I posted
    of the Yona (Jonah) example to what he was finally printed in 1962. I also agree
    with you on the fact that the Koren font is not as readable as other typefaces
    at very small font sizes. But then again, if you saw the size of the Koren Tanakh
    that he printed http://www.korenpub.com/EN/products/tanakh/sifrei_tanakh/9789653010741
    you'll see that a small sized Bible was not what he was about!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/firstEditionTanakh_4765.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-18 18:24:52'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Impressive web site. \r\n\r\nA beatiful klee deserves lots and lots of orders
    to fill it."
  created: '2010-10-18 18:40:15'
date: '2009-05-15 08:27:53'
node_type: forum
title: Creating a Merger of a Latin and a Non-Latin Font Style

---
