---
author:
  name: Chris Dean
  picture: 111971
body: "[[http://www.wired.com/gadgetlab/2009/05/e-book-design/|May we live in interesting
  times]]\u2026"
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Hopefully this will change in the near future. I know that at least one book
    publisher is working on a subsidized ebook reader because printing costs are so
    high and so many books lose money. Now that Amazon is planning to use cheap ebooks
    as a loss leader and bring in money with subscriptions to other content I expect
    to see more publishers jump on board. If we suddenly have competing cabals of
    companies that actually understand typography all trying to best Amazon and each
    other we\u2019ll hopefully see better ebook typography, and maybe some really
    great typefaces commissioned for ebook screens."
  created: '2009-05-18 16:47:28'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: I'm not convinced they'll address this any time soon. The type on the Sony
    is very poor (at least on the first generation) - fake italics, fake small caps,
    and no reviewers commented on the type. Kindle is a step in the right direction
    (16-level grayscale issue aside), but no one in the eBook world cares about type.
  created: '2009-05-18 18:08:57'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "sii said:\r\n>   no one in the eBook world cares about type.\r\n\r\nnot entirely
    true.\r\n\r\ni'm here specifically as an e-book programmer who\r\nis soliciting
    feedback on a wide variety of issues...\r\n\r\ni can't say you guys are using
    the opportunity wisely,\r\nnot so far anyway, but i am nothing if not persistent.\r\n\r\nas
    to the particular matter of type -- that is _fonts_ --\r\nthe wired article misses
    the point in a substantial way...\r\n\r\none of the primary tenants of e-book
    philosophy is that\r\nthe end-user should have control over the fonts used...\r\nso
    the investment of a lot of design considerations over\r\nthat particular aspect
    of the typography would be wasted.\r\nthe very same situation applies, of course,
    to web-pages.\r\n\r\nthis applies to some other typographical aspects as well...\r\nshould
    the text be justified or ragged-right?  user decides.\r\nhow tight should the
    leading be?  however the user likes it.\r\nhow big are the margins? as big as
    the user wants 'em to be.\r\n\r\nthe challenge to an e-book programmer, thus,
    becomes how\r\nto offer the end-user the options in an easy-to-use interface,\r\nand
    how to best present a display based on the user's choices.\r\n\r\nthis requires
    a _sensitivity_ to the practices of the typographer,\r\nan awareness that i am
    continuously attempting to cultivate...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-18 18:46:17'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "I'm not so concerned about the choice of types as I am by the lack of sensible
    H&J schemes in e-books. Maybe it has been solved since I last read a book on Kindle
    in November. But that was for me the most jolting part of the experience. Perhaps
    for any text there will be an optimum size that allows for good H&J for that text.
    But when the type size is adjusted for individual eyes or reading conditions,
    any optimum goes away.\r\n\r\nDisplaying Kindle texts as FL/RR won't help this.
    There will still be far too many instances in which the machine cannot handle
    hyphenation, and will throw unsightly white space where it ain't supposed to be.\r\n\r\nFigure
    this out and I'll be more likely to buy an e-book device. Well, figure out the
    economy so I can afford one, too. Right now the library wins out, hands-down.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2009-05-18 19:32:10'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "the kindle doesn't do hyphenation at all.\r\nnot currently, anyway.  it's
    unclear that\r\nthe chip can handle the computations\r\nso that they can be done
    in real time...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-18 19:50:47'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">the kindle doesn\u2019t do hyphenation at all.\r\n\r\nPhew, well I'm glad
    no one is proposing the Kindle be used for newspaper content then! :-)\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-18 21:37:32'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "The processor is powerful enough to mispronounce the presidents\u2019 name
    so I doubt that\u2019s the problem. However if it is, then soft-hyphens could
    be inserted into the content as some kind of pre-process. That way the processor
    would not need to do anything, just use them (optionally) if the word were to
    fall at the end of the line."
  created: '2009-05-18 21:41:23'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "sii said:\r\n>   Phew, well I\u2019m glad no one is proposing the \r\n>   Kindle
    be used for newspaper content then! :-)\r\n\r\ni do believe it's already got newspaper
    content on it.\r\n\r\n(i do not believe that content is broken into columns,\r\nhowever,
    since there would be little reason to do that.)\r\n\r\n\r\n>   soft-hyphens could
    be inserted into the content \r\n>   as some kind of pre-process. That way the
    processor \r\n>   would not need to do anything, just use them (optionally) \r\n>
    \  if the word were to fall at the end of the line.\r\n\r\nin some cases, that
    will affect the number of lines used\r\nby each paragraph, which will in turn
    affect pagination,\r\nso it's not that easy.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-18 22:26:14'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: "This focus on user control seems to lose sight of the fact that design choices
    are neither arbitrary nor insignificant. If there's something that the author
    wants to do that requires a certain artistic control to best express it, then
    I, as a reader, want to be able to see what they want to show me. I certainly
    don't want them to think, \"Oh well, it would have been a neat idea, but I'd better
    leave it out because it wouldn't work in the e-book.\" Things ranging from the
    Mouse's Tail in <em>Alice in Wonderland</em> to the nice little black boxes indicating
    the game clues in <em>Prisoner of Trebekistan</em> would simply start disappearing
    from the art of literature.\r\n\r\nE-books will never be an adequate substitute
    for print until they can do everything print can do. My ideal e-reader would be
    able to display any PDF as it is, and optionally interpret it as plaintext so
    that <strong>if</strong> I feel the need to change it all to 26pt Georgia ragged
    right, I can... but if I <strong>don't</strong> feel like choosing what formatting
    to impose on a book I haven't even read yet, I don't have to."
  created: '2009-05-19 00:29:25'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>this requires a _sensitivity_ to the practices of the typographer</em>\r\n\r\nYeah,
    well, how about using italics instead of adding underscores around the words you
    want to stress, huh?"
  created: '2009-05-19 03:34:29'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"It\u2019s unclear that\r\nthe chip can handle the computations\r\nso that
    they can be done in real time\"\r\n\r\nRight...because hyphenating text is the
    epitome of computer processing complexity?\r\n\r\nI'm guessing not.\r\n\r\nMore
    likely, people don't give a damn. Sad, frustrating, but likely true. \r\n\r\nWe
    praise print, but tend to forget a good chunk of the paperbacks have some pretty
    crappy small type with paper akin to toilet paper in terms of ink gain. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-19 04:12:38'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "cerulean said:\r\n>   This focus on user control seems to lose sight of the
    fact \r\n>   that design choices are neither arbitrary nor insignificant. \r\n\r\ni'm
    sorry if it hurts your feelings.  but users want the control.\r\nwhen the choice
    becomes your design versus their preferences,\r\ntheir preferences win out.  and
    it's not even much of a contest...\r\n\r\n\r\n>   to think, \"Oh well, it would
    have been a neat idea, but I\u2019d \r\n>   better leave it out because it wouldn\u2019t
    work in the e-book.\"\r\n\r\nactually, e-books offer authors the chance to include
    all kinds of\r\nstuff that doesn't work in print, including audio and video content.\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  Things ranging from the Mouse\u2019s Tail in Alice in Wonderland \r\n>   to
    the nice little black boxes indicating the game clues in \r\n>   Prisoner of Trebekistan
    would simply start disappearing\r\n>   from the art of literature.\r\n\r\nnot
    really.  illustrations are still viable.  indeed, e-books make it\r\nmuch easier,
    on the publishing end, to include lots of illustrations.\r\nand if .svg takes
    on, even text-based illustrations will be simple...\r\n\r\n\r\n>   E-books will
    never be an adequate substitute for print \r\n>   until they can do everything
    print can do. \r\n\r\nthat's not really how innovations happen...  horses can
    still do\r\nlots of things that automobiles can't, but we know how that one\r\nturned
    out.  and, like horses, print will never totally disappear...\r\n\r\n\r\n>   My
    ideal e-reader would be able to display any PDF as it is, \r\n>   and optionally
    interpret it as plaintext so that if I feel the need \r\n>   to change it all
    to 26pt Georgia ragged right, I can... but if I \r\n>   don\u2019t feel like choosing
    what formatting to impose on a book \r\n>   I haven\u2019t even read yet, I don\u2019t
    have to.\r\n\r\nsounds pretty much like my system is designed to work.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-19 07:04:10'
- author:
    name: Mans
    picture: 114961
  body: "Sounds very much like the current e-books suffer the same problems as the
    web did, back in 1993. (Well, yeah, okay, some of those problems are still with
    us.) I never thought e-books would seriously threaten the status of the printed
    book for the forseeable future. Unless and until they allow decent custom typography,
    they certainly won't.\r\n\r\n/M\xE5ns"
  created: '2009-05-19 08:49:26'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "aluminum said:\r\n>   Right...because hyphenating text is the epitome of
    \r\n>   computer processing complexity?  I\u2019m guessing not.\r\n\r\nyou guess
    wrong.\r\n\r\nit would be much simpler to do hyphenation in the web-browser, \r\nwhere
    there is usually a _much_ more capable chip in play, and \r\nthe amount of text
    that needs to be processed is smaller, and \r\nyou have the luxury of the use
    of a scrolling field rather than \r\nmore-difficult pagination.\r\n\r\nbut even
    in those browsers, hyphenation is rarely supported, \r\nand then only when soft-hyphens
    have been pre-inserted, \r\na practice which kicks up some other unpleasant side-effects,
    \r\nsuch as interference with the search capability...\r\n\r\n\r\n>   More likely,
    people don\u2019t give a damn. \r\n\r\nwell, that too.  but people were never
    polled.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   Sad, frustrating, but likely true.\r\n\r\nit's a bummer
    when others don't share your obsessions, isn't it?\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-19 18:32:16'
- author:
    name: barkeep
    picture: 111198
  body: "\"i\u2019m sorry if it hurts your feelings. but users want the control.\r\nwhen
    the choice becomes your design versus their preferences,\r\ntheir preferences
    win out. and it\u2019s not even much of a contest...\"\r\n\r\nI don't  agree with
    this, the vast majority of people don't know what they want. \r\nAs a much more
    experienced and successful man said \r\n\" A lot of times, people don\u2019t know
    what they want until you show it to them.\" Steve Jobs, \r\nso if people don't
    know what they want why don't we give them something as good as it can be as standard.\r\n\r\nE-books
    are pretty much a niche product at the moment. What the current  batch of users
    want my not be indicative of what a wider audience may want. Most people just
    want an easy life, they don't necessarily want to fiddle around with, or can be
    bothered to change default, settings. As designers it is our job to design products
    as easy to use and as visually appealing for the majority of people as possible.
    \r\n\r\nThe setting of a book is vitally important to how the text flows and thus
    how easy it is to read. Maybe when E-book technology is more mature and the emphasis
    on E-book construction has move from being developer-lead to designer-lead things
    may change and we may get E-books that look as good as they are as written.\r\n\r\nMartin"
  created: '2009-05-19 23:29:40'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "barkeep said:\r\n>   the vast majority of people don\u2019t know what they
    want.\r\n\r\nthat's an overstatement, but there's a lot of truth to it, yes.\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  if people don\u2019t know what they want \r\n>   why don\u2019t we give them
    something \r\n>   as good as it can be as standard.\r\n\r\nthat's a very good
    approach.  intelligent defaults are\r\nprobably the best thing you can do to help
    people out,\r\nfollowed by an interface that seems \"intuitive\" to them\r\nif
    they _do_ decide that they want to change something.\r\n\r\nit's not always easy
    to decide what \"as good as it can be\"\r\nactually _means_ when it comes to book-design,
    however.\r\n\r\neven some of the \"staples\" break down amazingly quickly\r\nwhen
    you start asking people what they actually prefer...\r\n\r\nwhat percentage of
    the people prefer sans-serif fonts?\r\nwhat leading multiple do most people choose
    if they can?\r\nwhat typesize will be used by people if they can control it?\r\n\r\nnone
    of these questions are ones with \"simple\" answers...\r\n\r\nand whether or not
    typographers \"agree\" on the answers,\r\nthere exists in the population a large
    degree of variability.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   What the current batch of users want my
    not be \r\n>   indicative of what a wider audience may want. \r\n\r\ni agree entirely.\r\n\r\nwhich
    is why it's important to give people the ability to\r\ncustomize the tool to their
    own desires and preferences.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   Most people just want an easy life,
    \r\n>   they don\u2019t necessarily want to fiddle around with\r\n\r\ni agree
    entirely.\r\n\r\nwhich is why it's not enough to give people the ability to\r\ncustomize
    the tool to their own desires and preferences,\r\nyou've gotta make sure that
    the defaults are well-chosen.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   So as designers it is our job to
    design products \r\n>   as easy to use and as visually appealing \r\n>   for the
    majority of people as possible.\r\n\r\nand that's why i -- as an e-book designer
    -- am here.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   Maybe when E-book technology is more mature \r\n>   and
    the emphasis on E-book construction has \r\n>   move from being developer-lead
    to designer-lead \r\n>   things may change\r\n\r\num, well, yeah, i don't think
    it's gonna come to _that_...\r\n\r\nnot unless you designers decide to learn programming.\r\n\r\nin
    the absence of that, you're going to have to settle for\r\nbeing advisors to us
    programmers who have decided\r\nthat we want to learn some design from typographers...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-19 23:45:00'
- author:
    name: barkeep
    picture: 111198
  body: "\"um, well, yeah, i don\u2019t think it\u2019s gonna come to _that_...\r\n\r\nnot
    unless you designers decide to learn programming.\"\r\n\r\nIf E-books turn out
    to be as popular as they seem they might I am sure Adobe and Quark will release
    an update to allow you to \"save for E-book\", after all it's a perfect excuse
    for them to charge another whopping great upgrade fee! :-)"
  created: '2009-05-19 23:53:58'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "Hyphenation, small caps, old figures...all good things, but what Kindle really
    needs is proper unicode support. If only chinese, arabic and cyrillic characters
    were added, the user group would explode.\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2009-05-20 00:29:54'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "barkeep said:\r\n>   If E-books turn out to be as popular as they seem they
    might \r\n>   I am sure Adobe and Quark will release an update to allow you \r\n>
    \  to \u201Csave for E-book\u201D, after all it\u2019s a perfect excuse for them
    to \r\n>   charge another whopping great upgrade fee! :-)\r\n\r\nbingo!        :+)\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\noprion
    said:\r\n>   Hyphenation, small caps, old figures...all good things, \r\n>   but
    what Kindle really needs is proper unicode support. \r\n>   If only chinese, arabic
    and cyrillic characters were added, \r\n>   the user group would explode.\r\n\r\njust
    today, a publisher reported that amazon has sent out\r\na letter reminding publishers
    to update their region data,\r\nwhich indicates they could be taking kindle international,\r\nin
    which case they'll quickly learn that they need unicode.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-20 01:20:34'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "\u2018bowerbird\u2019, I don't have a problem with users determining key
    aspects of typographic design for reading purposes, such as choice of font, size
    of text and linespacing. The single biggest problem with every eBook device I
    have looked at is the lack of a sophisticated linebreaking and justification algorithm.
    The \u2018page layout\u2019 is a mess. Solve this, and I might even buy one of
    these things."
  created: '2009-05-20 02:14:23'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"As designers it is our job to design products as easy to use and as visually
    appealing for the majority of people as possible.\"\r\n\r\nThe error in logic
    is thinking that it's either/or. Either we dictate the design as designers, or
    we give people full control. The nice thing about the digital world, and, specifically,
    HTML and CSS is that it's not either/or. We can (and do) have both.\r\n\r\nI admit,
    I rarely change settings on a particular web page to accommodate my particular
    tastes, but I've done it.\r\n\r\nI can think of more than one printed book that
    drove me nuts to crazy line lengths, crappy paper or weird justification, though.
    ;o)\r\n\r\nThe best definition of UX/web design I've heard is that we're suggesters.
    We suggest our best solution, but don't prohibit the individual from not agreeing.
    \r\n\r\nAlso, I have to love Bowerbird arguing for end-user control while at the
    same time blocking it with inane hard-returns. ;o)"
  created: '2009-05-20 02:44:28'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Yet another case for attaching typefaces to content, rather than licensing
    them for devices.
  created: '2009-05-20 04:41:00'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "It's just another example of what I call \"institutional ugliness\". Altho
    not the worst case I've ever seen. \r\n\r\nThink about it - ride a train, enter
    an office building, a doctor's office, a movie theater. Pick up a a local newspaper
    or a store circular. People have become inured to it. This wasn't always the case,
    a century ago even factories and warehouses had ornamentation and aesthetics.
    But as long as nobody but a few graphic designers complain, nothing will change."
  created: '2009-05-20 04:48:58'
- author:
    name: Bruno Bruno
    picture: 117016
  body: "You can attach as much typefaces as you like to your content but if your
    device is low res and you only have an x amount of pixels how much variation is
    there?\r\n\r\nType is always made specially for devices/printers/machines/typewriters
    etc. But that might change for a kindle if they put hires screens in there."
  created: '2009-05-20 04:59:12'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "@brunobruno: ebooks run at around 150 DPI, so the text rendering is more
    detailed than on computer screens. It also tends to be displayed much larger because
    there\u2019s more screen real estate due to a lack of menus, buttons, icons, etc. "
  created: '2009-05-20 05:08:01'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "I just noticed that somehow the case of the title fr this thread was changed
    from\r\n\r\n\"Why e-books look so ugly\"\r\n\r\nto\r\n\r\n\"Why E-books Look So
    Ugly\"\r\n\r\nIs this a bug, feature, or moderation/edit for some reason I am
    unaware of?"
  created: '2009-05-20 05:51:54'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "john said:\r\n>   The single biggest problem with every eBook device I have
    looked at \r\n>   is the lack of a sophisticated linebreaking and justification
    algorithm. \r\n>   The \u2018page layout\u2019 is a mess. Solve this, and I might
    even buy one\r\n\r\ngee, john, the interwebs must drive you absolutely nuts!\r\nare
    you boycotting them as well?            :+)\r\n\r\n(or maybe you simply haven't
    noticed that web-browsers\r\ndon't do justification very often, and -- due to
    an absence\r\nof any hyphenation, or even simple look-ahead routines --\r\nthe
    linebreaking is atrocious.  is that it, you ain't noticed?)\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\naluminum
    said:\r\n>   Also, I have to love Bowerbird arguing for end-user control \r\n>
    \  while at the same time blocking it with inane hard-returns. ;o)\r\n\r\nit _is_
    a conundrum, isn't it?         :+)\r\n\r\nor should i rather say that it's a _battle_,\r\nbetween
    those authors who want control\r\nversus the end-users who want control?\r\n\r\nas
    an author, i'm gonna load the dice for my control.\r\nbut as their programmer,
    i load 'em for the end-user.\r\n\r\nit ends up the best way to reformat my text\r\nwould
    be to load it into my viewer-program.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-20 09:02:22'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Christopher - it looks like it has been changed back from here. I have no
    clues about why in either case.
  created: '2009-05-20 10:15:31'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">E-books are pretty much a niche product at the moment.\r\n\r\nI would agree
    with the statement that E-book dedicated devices are a niche product, forever.
    \r\nPeople are, I think, reading and listening to books on undedicated devices
    like mad though, very nichelessly. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-20 11:00:25'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@ Sorkin: I changed it back myself. Thanks for the response. For future refrence,
    would Wardle be the right person to contact about things like this? I don't know
    where to find a list of moderators, admin's, tech support &c.\r\n\r\n@ Everyone:
    Don't forget about \"[[http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=p+book|p-books]].\"\r\n\r\n\r\n*throws
    in a wrench*"
  created: '2009-05-20 15:57:13'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: ">E-books are pretty much a niche product at the moment.\r\n\r\nI simply can
    not agree. Even my mom has one now. ;o)"
  created: '2009-05-20 18:19:29'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "dedicated e-book-readers are a \"niche\" device,\r\nin the sense that amazon
    has only sold about\r\na million kindles, with sony not too far behind.\r\n\r\nbut
    the rise of low-priced \"netbook\" machines\r\n-- as well as smartphones like
    the iphone --\r\nmeans e-books are ready for their close-up...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-20 19:31:22'
- author:
    name: barkeep
    picture: 111198
  body: "\"No. of book sales in the Us 2007-311 million-According to Nielsen BookScan.\"\r\nSource:
    Wall Street Journal, 9/10/2008 \r\nI did try to find more recent figure but I
    was unable to find them for free, given that just in the US 311 million \"old
    fashioned books\" were sold in 2007 I am still pretty confident to call E-books
    niche for the time being:-)\r\n\r\n\"The error in logic is thinking that it\u2019s
    either/or. Either we dictate the design as designers, or we give people full control.
    The nice thing about the digital world, and, specifically, HTML and CSS is that
    it\u2019s not either/or. We can (and do) have both\".\r\n\r\nSorry Aluminium,
    I don't see it as either or, as a designer you make the choice or you do complete
    designs for all possibilities, if people want to change your choices then fine,
    but maybe you then need to rethink why they want to change you choices:-)\r\n\r\nIt
    my Birthday  so I'm off for a nice pint have a good night all\r\nMartin"
  created: '2009-05-20 20:59:45'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Sorry Aluminium, I don\u2019t see it as either or, as a designer you make
    the choice or you do complete designs\"\r\n\r\nThat sentence is confusing. You
    say it's not either/or then make an this or that statement.\r\n\r\nAs a visual
    designer, you do what you can to accommodate everyone. But often your demographic
    can be quite broad. The nice thing about digital design is that the end user can
    modify your suggested design to best accommodate their particular individual needs.
    If one person prefers 9pt type and the other, 14pt, I suppose 12pt would be a
    nice compromise on paper. Even better online as they can both tweak it a tad further
    to their preferences. \r\n\r\nHappy Birthday!"
  created: '2009-05-20 21:57:58'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "<em>Barkeep said, \"given that just in the US 311 million \u201Cold fashioned
    books\u201D were sold in 2007 I am still pretty confident to call E-books niche
    for the time being.\"</em>\r\n\r\nWhen considering the numbers, keep in mind that
    one e-book can contain many titles. It's like comparing vinyl album sales to iPod
    sales. Which kind of points out that it wasn't very long ago that MP3 sales were
    the niche market."
  created: '2009-05-20 22:28:56'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> amazon has only sold about a million kindles</cite>\r\n\r\nAmazon
    has not been forthcoming about numbers as far as I have seen so I think it is
    best to treat this as hearsay unless somebody can show otherwise. \r\n\r\nAlso
    I don't think that e-books or whatever we want to call them are going to push
    out books as rapidly as mp3 did the CD. But electronic documents and devices (plural!)
    will definitely become increasingly important over time as will type's role on
    these devices. \r\n\r\nNeither type people or e-book \"designers\" posturing on
    typophile or elsewhere will mean much. We either offer something useful or we
    don't. And I think that being measurably useful is increasingly what will count
    more than explanations. And certainly what John has said about <cite> lack of
    a sophisticated linebreaking and justification algorithm</cite> is absolutely
    bang on."
  created: '2009-05-21 15:04:51'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I would agree with the statement that E-book dedicated devices are
    a niche product, forever.</cite>\r\n\r\nMaybe in the developed world that will
    be the case. But in rural Africa, Asia, and South America, where there are no
    bookstores or good roads to truck books in on, eBooks are going to explode once
    the price drops. They\u2019ll be huge in cities like Japan and Mumbai where families
    live in apartments the size of closets. Paper books are going to be a luxury item
    for spoiled Americans, like SUVs and gigantic televisions.\r\n\r\n<cite>We either
    offer something useful or we don\u2019t.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe eBook side needs to
    offer up some documentation before the type world gets involved. Who out there
    is going to try reverse-engineering eBook text rendering with trial-and-error
    font design?"
  created: '2009-05-21 16:09:34'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Eben is bang on if he says that \"John has said about lack of a sophisticated
    linebreaking and justification algorithm is absolutely bang on\". The same is
    true not only for e-books but also for web-browsers. (Essentially being the same.)
    With html/xml and css one may already define flexible layout that can adopt to
    the circumstances like resolution, display size, window size, desired type size,
    etc. The sole issue is the above-mentioned lack. Browsers/readers need to do exactly
    the same as the layout application of your choice does: proper text layout, hyphenation/linebreaking
    and justification. This would not even require alternative environments like WPF
    or plug-ins like Flash/AIR, at least not as long as we are talking about mere
    text ...\r\nAnd I do not agree with e-book as niche product. The web is not a
    niche product either, despite sub-standard represenation of text. Improve browsers/readers
    and all will be fine.\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-21 16:51:46'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "eben said:\r\n>   Amazon has not been forthcoming about numbers \r\n>   as
    far as I have seen so I think it is best to treat this \r\n>   as hearsay unless
    somebody can show otherwise.\r\n\r\n\"a million units\" is a round number, and
    it's certainly\r\nin the ballpark.  even the people who are arguing that\r\nthe
    kindle has not had much effect use _that_ estimate\r\nto make their point...  it's
    just 1 out of 350 americans,\r\nwhich does make the point that it's a _niche_
    product.\r\n\r\nif you'd like to see more evidence for that estimate,\r\ni'll
    provide it.  but i was _accepting_ the stipulation.\r\nit's hard to argue that
    e-books are _not_ \"niche\"...\r\n\r\n\r\n>   Also I don\u2019t think that e-books
    \r\n>   or whatever we want to call them\r\n\r\nare you suggesting that we _should_
    call e-books\r\nsomething else?  aside from questioning the hyphen,\r\ni do believe
    that people have settled on that term...\r\n\r\n\r\n>   Also I don\u2019t think
    that e-books \r\n>   or whatever we want to call them\r\n>   are going to push
    out books \r\n>   as rapidly as mp3 did the CD. \r\n\r\ni don't think anyone has
    seriously argued they would.\r\n(at least, as james notes, not in the united states.)\r\n\r\nthe
    nature of a physical book is quite different from\r\nthe nature of a c.d., in
    that a physical book requires\r\nno \"player\", except a human who reads the language.\r\nquite
    significantly, no electricity is required at all...\r\n\r\n\r\n>   But electronic
    documents and devices (plural!) will \r\n>   definitely become increasingly important
    over time \r\n>   as will type\u2019s role on these devices.\r\n\r\nagreed.\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  Neither type people or e-book \u201Cdesigners\u201D posturing\r\n\r\nwhat means
    \"posturing\"?\r\n\r\n\r\n>   Neither type people or e-book \u201Cdesigners\u201D
    posturing\r\n>   on typophile or elsewhere will mean much. \r\n>   We either offer
    something useful or we don\u2019t. \r\n\r\nif \"we\" offer something useful, \"we\"
    will indeed \"mean much\".\r\n\r\n\r\n>   And I think that being measurably useful
    is \r\n>   increasingly what will count more than explanations. \r\n\r\nif you're
    saying that running code speaks louder than words,\r\ni agree totally.\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  And certainly what John has said about \r\n>   lack of a sophisticated linebreaking
    and \r\n>   justification algorithm is absolutely bang on.\r\n\r\nit's funny that
    most people never mention that at all.\r\n\r\nnow maybe it's one of those subconscious
    things,\r\nand once we give it to them, they'll be happier and\r\nnot know why...
    \ that kind of stuff does happen...\r\n\r\nbut there's also the small problem
    that we cannot\r\n-- at present -- give it to them, for the reasons\r\ni've listed
    above.  so it's kind of a moot point...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-21 17:58:34'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Great point Karsten. There is no reason ebooks need to be their own \"pond\".
    In fact it would be counter productive. \r\n\r\nRE: <cite> if you\u2019re saying
    that running code speaks louder than words, i agree totally</cite> \r\n\r\nI am
    not saying code per se, although that would obviously be a part many solutions
    especially the one John brought up. I am saying that whatever improvements are
    offered will be increasingly prioritized on the basis of evidence. This includes
    font designs.\r\n\r\nMoot for how long? If history is any guide, and I think it
    is - not long. "
  created: '2009-05-21 22:52:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'URW''s hz program, which included paragraph level justification and linebreaking
    on which Adobe''s InDesign composers are based, was developed for use in static
    publishing (in which the text becomes a fixed state prior to delivery to the reader),
    but in many respects it is particularly appropriate to dynamic publishing (in
    which live text is delivered to the reader, who may e.g. change the size, change
    the typeface, etc.). This is what is missing from the software driving eBooks:
    a justification and linebreaking model that is smart enough to provide, on-the-fly,
    something close to the standards of a well-typeset print edition for dynamic text.'
  created: '2009-05-22 02:30:28'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "eben said:\r\n>   Moot for how long? If history is any guide, and I think
    it is - not long.\r\n\r\nwho knows?           :+)\r\n\r\nobviously in 10 years
    there'll be enough firepower in the iphone,\r\nand all of the other hand-held
    machinery we're carrying around...\r\n\r\nin 5 years?  probably.  but maybe not.\r\n\r\nin
    1 year?  perhaps.  i've been led to believe that there might be\r\nsome new iphones
    announced in july, and that they might have\r\na 600mhz processor rather than
    the current 400mhz processor,\r\nand that they might have 256mb of memory instead
    of 128mb,\r\nall of which might well help solve the problem.\r\n\r\n(did you notice
    a lot of occurrences of \"might\" in that sentence?)\r\n\r\nso it might well be
    possible to do the job in real-time with them.\r\n\r\nbut then, of course, you
    have to wait for the \"legacy\" hardware to\r\ngo away completely before you can
    _depend_ on the capabilities.\r\n\r\nand who knows how long that will take?\r\n\r\ni
    mean, seriously, it's 2009, and a substantial amount of people\r\nare still using
    internet explorer v6, with little upgrade intention.\r\n(if they ain't done it
    by now, there's no reason to expect 'em to.)\r\n\r\nas for the kindle, i have
    no idea what their capabilities might be.\r\n\r\nsame for android phones.  (and
    with them, and probably the next\r\niphone o.s. update as well, there's the issue
    of multi-tasking and\r\nbackground processes.  on the one hand, the ability to
    shove this\r\ntask to the background might be a neat way to solve the problem.\r\non
    the other hand, if your app has to fight for processing cycles\r\nwith a big slew
    of other background processes, it might well make\r\nthe whole problem much worse.
    \ and until you have running code,\r\nyou just plain don't know.)\r\n\r\nso, will
    the problem go away?  definitely.  when?  nobody knows.\r\n\r\nin the meantime,
    e-books are going forward without hyphenation.\r\nand very few civilians seem
    to notice or care.  and that's the truth.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-22 06:45:44'
- author:
    name: barkeep
    picture: 111198
  body: ":in the meantime, e-books are going forward without hyphenation.\r\nand very
    few civilians seem to notice or care. and that\u2019s the truth.\"\r\n\r\nAs designers
    we do seem to forget that most of the population don't seem to  really care, if
    it's good they don't notice as it works and does its job, but if it's bad it's
    a different matter, as one of my old tutors said to us (the class that is),\r\n\"good
    design  generally goes unnoticed, it works, does its job and people don't mention
    it, but bad design people notice and tell you, again and again and again\" (bit
    of a para phrase there it was a while a go).\r\n\r\nAt the moment most people
    are  pobaby still just in awe of digital books, it still has the cool factor,
    so they ignore the limitations and bad design. But as with everything the more
    mainstream and common it becomes the more investment will be poured into it and
    the more polished and professional it will be.\r\n\r\nPersonally I can't wait
    until designers have the tools to set this stuff correctly as the possibilities
    of digital books are endless.  \r\nOn a separate note those choices, transfer
    that idea to E-books and you could have a story that never really ends.\r\n\r\n@
    Aluminium- cheers was a very nice pint, brewed 2 miles down the road and the owner
    of the brewery was in the bar and got me one when he found out it was my birthday:-),
    a great way of building brand loyalty.\r\nMartin\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-22 13:57:54'
- author:
    name: Tim.Donaldson
  body: "\u201Cnot unless you designers decide to learn programming.\r\n\r\nin the
    absence of that, you\u2019re going to have to settle for\r\nbeing advisors to
    us programmers who have decided\r\nthat we want to learn some design from typographers...\u201D\r\n
    \r\n\r\nI think that is such an unconstructive mindset. Programmers are programmers
    because that is what they are passionate about and what to be. Vice versa with
    typographers. For the life of me, don\u2019t understand how people could enjoy
    coding things, but I am glad there are people who do. It is this passion that
    allows them to a better job than I ever will. It doesn\u2019t make sense for programmers
    to learn <em>some design</em> from typographers and expect to produce a better
    solution than when they work directly in collaboration with people who have true
    expertise in the subject.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n________________\r\n[[http://www.timdonaldson.com|My
    Portfolio]]"
  created: '2009-05-23 03:50:29'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: The only thing that the hz program offers that would not be important is the
    ability to compose to whole pages. Also the line space adjusting would be something
    I would have concerns about without another uptick in rez. What's your take on
    this John?
  created: '2009-05-23 11:26:51'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I simply can not agree. Even my mom has one now. ;o)\r\n>Amazon has sold
    a million...\r\n\r\nPeanuts, (not your mom of course). Those kindle numbers are
    paltry and peaked. \r\n\r\n>The only thing that the hz program offers that would
    not be important is the ability to compose to whole pages.\r\n\r\nWhy not? Just
    because web pages are dynamic, that does not mean there are not static states
    involved... eventually. \r\nAnd since it is then that pages are read, and not
    in their 'dynamic' state, all of HZ is important, I think. \r\nThen again, maybe
    I'm just saying this 'cause an associate owns patents in this area. :)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-05-23 12:24:15'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "barkeep -- <cite>Personally I can't wait until designers have the tools to
    set this stuff correctly as the possibilities of digital books are endless.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt
    were be funny to have a layout application that allowed one to visually design
    with variables, rather than visually placing this exactly here and that exactly
    there.\r\nThe real issue, in my opinion, is not tools but designers. They have
    been trained to work within the constraints of layout applications (PageMaker,
    XPress, InDesign) which follow the \"this here and that there\" paradigm, and
    seem unable to approach design from the structure side (as the old fellows did,
    see Tschichold's or Caflisch's book design sketches). Design as illustration.
    There is almost a fear of \"mere\" structure. It would take a whole new generation
    not infected by the \"this here and that there\" virus. Here and now, maybe web
    designers are better prepared than print designers.\r\n\r\ndberlow -- <cite>Then
    again, maybe I\u2019m just saying this \u2019cause an associate owns patents in
    this area. :)</cite>\r\n\r\nI am curious."
  created: '2009-05-23 14:00:44'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"It were be funny to have a layout application that allowed one to visually
    design with variables\"\r\n\r\nCSS?"
  created: '2009-05-23 15:40:42'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "For example.\r\nBut CSS is just data. I mean an app to create these data
    visually. Are there any for creating CSS that way? Don't know."
  created: '2009-05-23 16:58:10'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I've had graphic design friends beg for an app that would do that. Alas,
    CSS can't be built *well* that way.\r\n\r\nIt certainly can be done, though. There
    are frameworks designed specifically or that, such as BluePrintCSS.\r\n\r\nAlas,
    those methods tend to work purely on a layout metaphors and don't always mesh
    with the semantic content. \r\n\r\nGood CSS design requires a reverse angle of
    attack compared to the QuarkXPress days. \r\n\r\nAll that said, we've had discussions
    of using CSS for print-based formatting of things like books. I know there was
    that software product out of Australia that did that (Ring a bell anyone? I Can't
    recall the name of the product.)"
  created: '2009-05-23 17:25:00'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: Thank you for this. You confirm my main point which is that "the real issue,
    in my opinion, is not tools but designers." A visual approach to structural problem
    possibly would have a mere paedagogic purpose -- allowing designers to make a
    first step out of "this here and that there" thinking into accepting flexibility,
    and to realize, at some point, that the visual approach is too limited.
  created: '2009-05-23 18:01:22'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: ">  patents\r\n\r\nas if there were no prior art in this arena...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-23 18:31:36'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "There are two additional reasons I think composing to whole pages is probably
    not key - One is that I don't want to read in \"pages\" on a device. I know that
    for ebooks it is less power consumptive to offer to swap whole pages rather than
    live scrolling but I don't want that. I want to scroll - and not past pages as
    you do in PDFs but as a whole document. I have no doubt that this is because of
    the web. But honestly that is how I would prefer to read. The reason that newspaper
    web sites break their story up is so that they can get more page views and serve
    more ads. If I am reading a book I don't want that stuff. Jumping/linking to chapters
    yes. Related commentary yes. But a \"page\" I can do without. \r\n\r\nBut even
    if I am forced to have pages because a paradigm I don't need is kept breathing
    by technical necessity or cultural forces - there is still no point in worry about
    composing to  whole pages. Saving \"pages\" is a great worry if you have paper
    but electronically it doesn't   save the publisher anything at all. The user might
    like to click 2 or 10 or 20 times less often to get through a book but ... I just
    don't see it being important to them even if they noticed or were told it was
    happening. \r\n\r\nIt is very possible I am missing something here but that is
    how it looks to me just now. \r\n\r\nI mean if your book is supposed to be printable
    as well then maybe but..."
  created: '2009-05-24 03:18:17'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: 'Eben, the cultural forces at work here are a worry. The traditional system
    of referencing by title (book, article) and page number has been forcing scientific
    journals'' publishers to match the pagination of online editions to print. You
    would think that scientists on the whole would be open to change or improvement,
    but it appears not to be the case. So XML is used for the articles to be published
    simultaneously in print and online with identical page breaks. The irony is that
    (in my very limited understanding) the XML does identify every component uniquely,
    and would make a much better universal reference system online. '
  created: '2009-05-24 16:02:30'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "eben said:\r\n>   I want to scroll\r\n\r\ni've designed my e-book viewer-app
    to allow scrolling,\r\nif a user chooses.  but it's a very tiny minority that
    does.\r\n(and, personally, i've never understood that choice, since\r\nscrolling
    takes so much work, yet isn't quite as accurate.)\r\n\r\n\r\n>   even if I am
    forced to have pages because \r\n>   a paradigm I don\u2019t need is kept breathing\r\n>
    \  by technical necessity or cultural forces\r\n\r\npeople _prefer_ pagination,
    because it enhances readability,\r\nsince it's faster, more accurate, and less
    work than scrolling.\r\n\r\nas far as \"technical necessity\", it's _far_ easy
    to use scrolling.\r\nyou just toss the text into a scrolling field and you are
    done,\r\nwith the o.s. handling all the scrolling operations from there.\r\npagination,
    on the other hand, requires all kinds of hard work.\r\n\r\nand the \"cultural
    forces\" aren't anything to sneeze at either...\r\nif we could magically transition
    from paper-books to e-books\r\njust by snapping our fingers, we might be able
    to leave behind\r\nall references to page-numbers.  but that ain't gonna happen.\r\nso,
    for the next few decades or so, we're going to have to grok\r\npage-numbers to
    take advantage of our cultural legacy which\r\nmade heavy use of that methodology
    as its \"link\" mechanism...\r\n\r\n(besides, we'd just have to settle on some
    new methodology.\r\nthe operation known as \"linking\" on the web is badly lacking,\r\nbecause
    you cannot link to a specific place on a specific page\r\nunless the author of
    that page created a named anchor there.)\r\n\r\n\r\n>   The user might like to
    click 2 or 10 or 20 times less often to \r\n>   get through a book but ... I just
    don\u2019t see it being important \r\n>   to them even if they noticed or were
    told it was happening.\r\n\r\nin general, i agree.  and i was shocked to see that
    many people\r\nwho are reformatting e-books for their kindles and iliads were\r\nusing
    no margins on them, since that is very distracting to me.\r\nwhen i asked them
    why they'd made this curious choice, they\r\nresponded that it was to cut down
    on the number of pages,\r\nbecause they didn't like having to turn pages.  they
    said it is\r\ntoo time-consuming (because pageturns are slow) and also\r\ntoo
    distracting (because these machines do a \"reverse flash\"\r\non a pageturn) and
    because it used up the battery too quickly\r\n(because pageturns are the only
    time the machine uses juice).\r\nso pageturns took them out of their immersion
    in the story...\r\n\r\nnow, all three of those problems might eventually be overcome,\r\nbut
    at present, actual users prefer a minimal number of pages...\r\nto the point they
    will give up all margins to attain that imperative.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-24 20:29:38'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "here's some news that may cheer you...\r\n\r\nthere's a new iphone e-book
    viewer-app,\r\nout just today after being held in purgatory\r\nbecause an inept
    apple review had held it up\r\n-- since it could access the kama sutra from\r\nproject
    gutenberg, which is a naughty book --\r\nthat does hyphenation!  you must be _thrilled_!
    \     :+)\r\n\r\nhow does it manage this feat?\r\n\r\nwell, it only offers one
    font.  and it won't let you\r\nrotate the display, so it only offers one viewport.\r\nand
    it constrains the typesize to just five choices.\r\nand it won't let you set the
    margins, or the leading.\r\n\r\nand if you open a book immediately upon download,\r\nyou
    must wait for a minute or two while it paginates.\r\n(although it seems to save
    the data, so it's one-time.)\r\n\r\nif you can accept all those constraints, voila,
    hyphenation!\r\n\r\nthe name of the app is \"eucalyptus\".  it'll set you back
    $10.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-24 23:40:27'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "so, is there anyone here who has an iphone,\r\nand who has purchased the
    eucalyptus app?\r\n\r\nwhat is your impression of the readability?\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-26 19:45:14'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "nobody here has an iphone and is willing to go\r\non the record on the readability
    of eucalyptus?\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-27 21:01:31'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "Wasn't there a really nice fb2 reader for iphone available since time immemorial?\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2009-05-27 21:40:50'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "fbreader is on some phones, yes, but not the iphone.\r\n\r\nit doesn't get
    a lot of press for being nice-looking,\r\nbut i know that some people think it's
    pretty good.\r\n\r\neucalyptus, though, has reviewers call it \"gorgeous\".\r\n\r\nso
    i wondered what the experts here think...\r\n\r\n>   http://th.ingsmadeoutofotherthin.gs/eucalyptus/\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-27 22:49:29'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@ bowerbird: Nice link. \r\n\r\nI created a thread called \"[[http://typophile.com/node/58461|New
    iPhone e-book reader]]\" to re-locate conversation specifically dedicated towards
    this application. If all goes well, I'll have my hands on it tomorrow morning."
  created: '2009-05-28 00:45:23'
- author:
    name: CameronWilliams
    picture: 117391
  body: "I'm sorry, but bowerbird has made me quite angry. Of course, I'm easily irritated;
    I'm still angry that solid setting caused ascenders and descenders to overlap
    when Futura was made available for film-setting, and still angry that the mistake
    wasn't corrected when the font was digitized.\r\n\r\nBowerbird says, \"one of
    the primary tenants of e-book philosophy is that the end-user should have control
    over the fonts used...\". Marketing points now qualify as philosophy? And the
    word is tenets, not tenants; even so, I'm glad I don't have to live there.\r\n\r\nWhat
    an absurd notion. Does the average user have any knowledge of what makes a text
    readable or a font legible? The average computer user still double-spaces after
    punctuation, a practice that should have died with the demise of the typewriter,
    or at least be restricted to monospaced fonts. We should simply disregard 570
    years of knowledge; knowledge which enabled the spread of civilization, because
    e-books have arrived! \r\n\r\nTo a typographer, the only book suitable for display
    on the Kindle is \"A River Runs Through It\", an apt description of e-book typography
    in general. The arrival of e-books have not rendered the contributions of Gill,
    Morrison, Ward, Dowding, Zapf, Frutiger, et al obsolete; the insights gained by
    their labors are now needed more than ever."
  created: '2009-05-28 01:41:35'
- author:
    name: CameronWilliams
    picture: 117391
  body: "\"URW\u2019s hz program, which included paragraph level justification and
    linebreaking on which Adobe\u2019s InDesign composers are based, was developed
    for use in static publishing (in which the text becomes a fixed state prior to
    delivery to the reader), but in many respects it is particularly appropriate to
    dynamic publishing (in which live text is delivered to the reader, who may e.g.
    change the size, change the typeface, etc.). This is what is missing from the
    software driving eBooks: a justification and linebreaking model that is smart
    enough to provide, on-the-fly, something close to the standards of a well-typeset
    print edition for dynamic text.\"\r\n\r\nBut neither XPress8 nor InDesignCS4 can
    automatically produce well-set pages that even approach the standards set by such
    giants as Jan Tschichold, Hermann Zapf, or Geoffrey Dowding; acceptably competent
    is the highest level these applications can achieve\u2014without designer intervention.
    Most printed books fall short of the ideal.\r\n\r\n\"Excellence in typography
    is the result of nothing more than an attitude. Its appeal comes from the understanding
    used in its planning; the designer must care.\" If one can program that onto a
    chip, the problem will be solved."
  created: '2009-05-28 04:13:16'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "the eye-doctor is an expert.\r\n\r\nyet he doesn't _tell_ you which item\r\nyou
    can see better than the other...\r\nhe _asks_ you.\r\n\r\nand then he gives you
    another pair,\r\nand asks you which is more clear,\r\nand again he listens to
    your answer.\r\n\r\nhe doesn't argue, or insist you're wrong.\r\n\r\nhe just asks
    you which is more readable.\r\n\r\nagain and again, and again and again...\r\n\r\nin
    the end, the prescription he gives you\r\nis the one that helps _you_ see the
    best.\r\nit's not some generic prescription that\r\napplies to everyone.  it applies
    to _you_.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-28 05:16:44'
- author:
    name: Scalfin
    picture: 114154
  body: How big are most typeface files? It seems like the easiest thing to do is
    just throw the file at the beginning of every book, and then apply it to the text
    file.
  created: '2009-05-28 05:29:44'
- author:
    name: Pablo R
    picture: 116225
  body: "bowerbird, I don't understand your \"ebook philosophy\" endorsing a substandard
    reading experience in the name of personal user control. The device is ill conceived
    and poorly executed. \r\n\r\nYes, the user can adjust between bad and terrible.
    All the present ebook readers will soon share the back of a drawer with a pager.
    \r\n\r\nExactly where I keep my Newton ...it could manage this kind of type control
    on it's ebooks 13 years ago.\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-28 12:11:51'
- author:
    name: CameronWilliams
    picture: 117391
  body: "bowerbird, the eye doctor doesn't test your eyes for readability, and the
    Egyptian-style lettering on the charts, though highly legible, would not make
    for blocks of pleasing, readable text. The optometrist or opthalmologist tests
    for clarity of vision only, an entirely different matter.\r\n\r\nA well-set book
    effortlessly draws the reader into the story; when well-done, the reader is unaware
    of the book, per se; he perceives only the story. \r\n\r\nThe principles for making
    books readable have been painstakingly developed over the past 570 years, and
    these principles can be applied to ebooks; the herculean effort required to do
    so is well justified (no pun intended). "
  created: '2009-05-28 12:43:22'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "pablo said:\r\n>   bowerbird, I don\u2019t understand your \u201Cebook philosophy\u201D
    endorsing \r\n>   a substandard reading experience in the name of personal user
    control. \r\n\r\nthe arrogance of the \"experts\" always amuses me.\r\n\r\nfor
    any particular book, i don't care, choose whatever you want,\r\nand for the body
    of the book, just answer me these questions...\r\n\r\nwhat point-size is \"optimal\",
    such that, if i were to adjust it,\r\ni would be causing myself \"a substandard
    reading experience\"?\r\n\r\nwhat leading is \"optimal\"?  what margins are \"optimal\"?
    \ and\r\nwould changing those make \"a substandard reading experience\"?\r\n\r\nwhat
    font is best?  (and if you gave the job to 20 great designers,\r\nhow many of
    them do you think would choose that same font?)\r\n\r\ndo you really, honestly
    and truly, think that you can decide this,\r\nand come up with one rendering,
    for every person on the planet?\r\n\r\ngo ahead, tell me \"yes\".  i love to laugh
    at arrogance...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-28 19:44:36'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "I know that half of you recoil in horror at the idea that your precious designer
    choices should be overridden, but this is not print design. ePub, for example,
    <em>is</em> simply XHTML 1.1 + CSS in a wrapper. In CSS, user choices trump everything.
    There\u2019s no way around it.\r\n\r\nThis says nothing at all about the usefulness
    and purpose of well-chosen <em>default</em> settings. It is merely a reminder
    that, by virtue of the technology, people can select other settings if they wish.
    I am of course in favour of limiting the available options to things we know aren\u2019t
    harmful, but the cat\u2019s kind of out of the bag in that respect, is it not?\r\n\r\n\u2014
    \ \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-05-28 21:27:17'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Can Bowerbird please start using linebreaks only after paragraphs, and maybe
    learn to capitalize?\r\n\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-05-28 21:27:56'
- author:
    name: mbourqui
  body: "Choosing the type size on e-books is fine. Books come out in large-type editions
    all the time. Nobody's arguing against that.\r\n\r\nBut what precludes e-book
    readers from doing fair (ie, state of the art) H&J and suggesting a pleasant,
    well-made typeface that complements each book? There's especially no excuse for
    bad H&J. Computer scientists have been working on that for three decades now.\r\n\r\nHaving
    adequate typography on e-book readers is no reason the users couldn't choose the
    typeface, type size, and margins. This is a false dichotomy.\r\n\r\nI admit leading
    isn't so much a matter of choice. Very few choices of leading will be pleasant
    to look at for a given combination of output device and font. Users will only
    really care about the leading if the default is ill-chosen, but the default should
    really depend on the font.\r\n\r\nMikael"
  created: '2009-05-28 22:11:34'
- author:
    name: CameronWilliams
    picture: 117391
  body: bowerbird, I just checked your eucalyptus link, and here's a thought. The
    text as shown is set at an approximate line length of 30 to 35 characters; however,
    optimal line length for readability is between 45 to 70 characters. Why not make
    the default setting a rotated page (the iPhone held in landscape orientation)
    that allows for that line length? This would also allow for an immediate improvement
    in H&J, as fewer hyphens are required when setting longer lines.
  created: '2009-05-28 22:20:23'
- author:
    name: CameronWilliams
    picture: 117391
  body: I know which one I'd rather read.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/iPhone_eucalyptus_3953.png][img:sites/default/files/old-images/iPhone_eucalyptus_horiz_6070.png]
  created: '2009-05-28 23:03:10'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I know which one I\u2019d rather read.\"\r\n\r\nHence the appeal of HTML
    + CSS and user overridable settings. ;o)"
  created: '2009-05-28 23:17:51'
- author:
    name: CameronWilliams
    picture: 117391
  body: Agreed, but the point I'm trying to make is that the horizontal format allows
    for more flexibility for the reader (end-user), while allowing better default
    formatting choices to the programmer. The vertical format, because of the small
    screen, has rivers running through the type, which draws the eye downward and
    distracts the reader. The horizontal format overcomes this limitation to some
    extent. Of course, if the reader wants only 5 lines of text per page, the rivers
    will return, and that's his choice.
  created: '2009-05-28 23:30:50'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: "<cite>I know which one I\u2019d rather read.</cite>\r\nGood luck with that,
    the resolution of the iphone is too coarse for type that small to be a comfortable
    read.\r\n\r\nFor what it's worth, I've read a couple dozen books on my iphone
    using Stanza. It's not amazing but not aweful either. The most challenging part
    for me is the active display, which I've compensated for by making the type white
    on black. Here's a screenshot. \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IMG_0001_4176.PNG]"
  created: '2009-05-28 23:51:32'
- author:
    name: CameronWilliams
    picture: 117391
  body: "But the point is that the simple act of turning the phone 90\xB0 gives <em>line-length\t</em>
    more real estate, making for immediate improvement, not to get more type per page,
    but <em>per line</em>, a low-tech solution that improves readability, while making
    no further demands on current processors.\r\n\r\nIt is easier to read the random
    line:\r\n\r\n\u201Cstraight down High Street without any apparent consciousness
    that\u201D\r\n\r\nthan it is to read:\r\n\r\n\u201CThe  general  route \_of  the
    \ Great  In-\u201D;\r\nthe reader (end-user) is better able to establish a reading
    rhythm.\r\n\r\nThis should satisfy both typographer and programmer. I could have
    been more attentive to refinements in the actual setting, but that wouldn't show
    the <em>inherent</em> difference. I should have been more diligent, though, and
    made the type the same point size; here\u2019s the revised file showing both,
    the text is now the same size, though I\u2019ve still neglected to add the reflection
    and glare:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/iPhone_eucalyptuses_5777.png]"
  created: '2009-05-29 01:28:02'
- author:
    name: tearsforsappho
    picture: 115158
  body: '@ Joe Clark: Can Bowerbird stop blatantly insulting ideas he disagrees with?'
  created: '2009-05-29 06:43:53'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "well, at least i am said to be insulting _ideas_\r\nrather than some think-skinned
    human being.\r\n\r\nthe last i heard, however, ideas don't have feelings\r\nwhich
    can be hurt if you do happen to \"insult\" them.\r\n\r\nmore later...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\np.s.
    \ love the screenshots!       :+)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-29 07:46:49'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: E's a troll, methinks.
  created: '2009-05-29 07:59:01'
- author:
    name: faraqat
    picture: 112914
  body: "Hi! It has been very interesting to read this... i won't get into the subject
    because i'm a \"book person\" :) i lack the touch, the smell, the possibility
    of writing on it and the material existence of books it self. \r\nIt is hard for
    me to even read pdfs on my computer screen...\r\n\r\nBut i have a question for
    you experts :P\r\n\r\n - what about poems... how do you deal with linebreaking?
    how do you offer the reader a chance to understand the rhythm of every line? how
    would you pass on to the screen of a e-book reader something like the experimentalism
    of the 60's poetry and literature?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-29 10:58:29'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: ">something like the experimentalism of the 60\u2019s poetry and literature?
    \r\n\r\n... or somewhat more familiar, Winnie-the-Pooh's balloon trailing off
    through the text."
  created: '2009-05-29 11:17:22'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Good luck with that, <strong>the resolution of the iphone is too coarse
    </strong>for type that small to be a comfortable read.\r\n\r\nFor some perhaps.
    \r\n\r\nI found a site or two that work just fine in landscape mode. \r\n\r\nOn
    one, (at the Gutenburg project, in fact), I spent part of last summer reading
    the Iliad and the Odyssey. \r\n\r\nDuring the intermission, I stopped, measured
    the type, and discovered I was reading 6.25 pt. \r\n\r\nAfter I was through, I
    wanted to read both books again, but I ran out of time going off to make fonts
    for a higher resolution device where I am able to read 4.5 pt, but not for so
    long. ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-29 13:00:40'
- author:
    name: Pablo R
    picture: 116225
  body: "Hey bowerbird to be a <cite>\"programmer who is soliciting feedback on a
    wide variety of issues\"<cite> you are not very receptive. \r\n\r\nThis is not
    us arrogant experts vs you pompous programmer even if you want to see it like
    that. By the way I would not call me an expert, especially around the people that
    write in typophile.\r\n\r\nThis issue is not that recent, of course my old aunt
    needs a different setup for text than me, this is also done in books. It has nothing
    to do with that.\r\n\r\nBut a book is not just text, and the current readers provide
    a substandar reading experience to the users, because they are very limited. No
    problem, they will change and evolve and will some day get it.\r\n\r\nSo use the
    opportunity wisely, learn what is behind our reasons and this technological wonder
    that is the written language. \r\n\r\nDon't take it personal it's not your fault
    the kindle was designed so poorly. \r\n\r\nCheers"
  created: '2009-05-29 13:17:18'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'I think we''re arguing the two extremes. Most consumers are in the middle,
    though. '
  created: '2009-05-29 15:40:27'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "earlier pablo said:\r\n>   All the present ebook readers will soon \r\n>
    \  share the back of a drawer with a pager.\r\n>   Exactly where I keep my Newton
    \r\n>   ...it could manage this kind of type control \r\n>   on it\u2019s ebooks
    13 years ago.\r\n\r\nnow pablo says:\r\n>   the current readers provide a substandar
    reading experience \r\n>   to the users, because they are very limited. No problem,
    \r\n>   they will change and evolve and will some day get it.\r\n\r\ni see.  you
    consider your pager and your newton\r\nto have been evolutionary steps toward
    the new\r\nand improved devices, rather than dead ends...\r\n\r\nand when you
    said \"substandard reading experience\",\r\nyou really meant \"which will be improved
    upon soon\".\r\n\r\nand rather than relegating to \"the back of the drawer\",\r\nthe
    current hardware, you'll keep it and keep using it\r\nuntil something better becomes
    available for your use.\r\n\r\ni hope you'll see how this might have been unclear
    earlier.\r\n\r\nand i think it should be obvious i agree with this rendering.\r\nyet
    for some reason, i picked up that you had put yourself\r\ninto opposition with
    my position.  my mistake?  or yours?\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-29 17:45:14'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "faraqat said:\r\n>   what about poems... how do you deal with linebreaking?
    \r\n\r\nlinebreaks per se are no problem.\r\n\r\nlines that go longer than the
    width of the viewport?  problem.\r\nbut the same problem that they give designers
    in print, so...\r\n\r\n>   how do you offer the reader a chance\r\n>   to understand
    the rhythm of every line? \r\n\r\nyou do the best you can, and count on their
    poetic sensibility.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   how would you pass on to the screen of a e-book
    reader \r\n>   something like the experimentalism of the 60\u2019s poetry\r\n\r\nsomething
    like concrete poetry?  with graphics...\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\ntheunis said:\r\n>   ...
    or somewhat more familiar, Winnie-the-Pooh\u2019s \r\n>   balloon trailing off
    through the text.\r\n\r\ndefinitely via graphics.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-29 17:51:00'
- author:
    name: CameronWilliams
    picture: 117391
  body: "Dear Bowerbird:\r\n\r\nAssuming that you are not simply being argumentative
    for your own amusement, your questions deserve honest answers; I\u2019ll attempt
    to provide them.\r\n\r\nQ: <em>\u201Cwhat point-size is \u201Coptimal\u201D, such
    that, if i were to adjust it, i would be causing myself \u201Ca substandard reading
    experience\u201D?\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nA: Obviously, it depends upon the size, resolution
    and contrast ratio of the device or page in question. The optimal point size is
    determined by the number of characters per line, including word spaces; a substantial
    amount of objective research, using double-blind methodology, has determined this
    to be between 45 and 70 characters per line; at these line lengths, both reading
    speed and comprehension improve for most readers. Moreover, these line lengths
    will prevent \u201Crivers\u201D from drawing the eye downwards rather than across
    the page. Rivers are excessive negative space between words; well-set type will
    appear as a series of clearly-defined strips when one squints at the text. The
    vertically-oriented iPhone illustration shows excessive rivers in the text.\r\n\r\nQ:
    <em>\u201Cwhat leading is \u201Coptimal\u201D? what margins are \u201Coptimal\u201D?
    and would changing those make \u201Ca substandard reading experience\u201D?\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nA:
    Leading will be sufficient, (and I will define \u201Coptimal leading\u201D as
    sufficient leading) when the phenomenon of \u201Cbounce-back\u201D does not occur.
    Bounce-back can be defined as the eye of the reader tending to return to the beginning
    of the line he has just read once he has reached the end, rather than naturally
    moving to the next line. Again, this is measurable, and has been demonstrated
    with double-blind studies; eye-movements of the participants were photographically
    measured. The horizontally-oriented phone shown in the last image I posted has
    leading that is slightly too tight; some readers may experience bounce back when
    reading that passage. Leading added after bounce-back has been eliminated would
    indeed be a wholly subjective decision.\r\n\r\nOptimal margins are much more subjective;
    Jan Tschichold and others have written extensively on the subject; but it would
    be sufficient to say that the margins are <em>acceptable</em> when the reader
    is not distracted from reading by awareness of the physical medium. The intended
    design of this comments section has both optimal line length and leading, that
    is when it is not defeated by users physically entering returns, as you appear
    to have done.\r\n\r\nQ: <em>\u201Cwhat font is best? (and if you gave the job
    to 20 great designers,\r\nhow many of them do you think would choose that same
    font?)\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nA: There is no \u201Cbest\u201D font; however, legibility
    (defined by the OED as: \u201Cclear enough to read\u201D; i.e., the letterforms
    cannot easily be confused with one another) is the prime consideration to be taken
    into account when choosing a font; that's why almost no one except semi-literate
    gang members set text in Old English capitals or Script capitals (although I\u2019ve
    met people who think both are \u201Cpretty\u201D, or \u201Cclassy\u201D\u2014<em>shudder</em>).
    Avant Garde Gothic has a slight legibility problem with the lowercase \u201Ca\u201D,
    it can be easily mistaken for a lowercase \u201Co\u201D; Calypso is almost completely
    illegible. After taking legibility into account, the next choice would be voice,
    the <em>feeling</em> one wishes to convey; this is subjective, and other choices
    made after these two have been taken into consideration are progressively more
    subjective.\r\n\r\nHow do you define \u201Cgreat designer\u201D? Phil Dusenberry
    would say a great designer \u201Ccuts through the clutter\u201D; David Carson
    immediately comes to mind. I would define the term more conservatively; a great
    designer is one who can impart information while requiring the least amount of
    effort from the consumer of that information; Paul Rand would meet both Dusenberry\u2019s
    and my definitions. If you asked twenty \u201Cgreat designers\u201D to come up
    with a list of ten typefaces for consideration for a new edition of <em>The Odyssey</em>,
    though, many font names would likely be repeated.  "
  created: '2009-05-29 18:02:24'
- author:
    name: Pablo R
    picture: 116225
  body: "After Cameron's fantastic explanation I cant say anything more on that.\r\n\r\nbowerbird,
    I love my Newton, specially the old eMate, it still looks fantastic. \r\n\r\nI
    do think they were the first steps for new devices, but after more than 10 years
    this devices are not as evolved as they could. Technically they are poles apart,
    but reading an ebook on my N2010 is not very different.\r\n\r\nI think current
    readers are substandard because they don't add nothing new, they just are the
    cheapest way to output a text. And what really vex me is that this was the objective.\r\n\r\nImagine
    the Kindle with a proper set of type. Give the designer/programmer tools to preserve
    technical standards and the spirit of the text. Then let the reader adjust what
    they want to read better.\r\n\r\nI am not very sure specific function devices
    have any future, right now they can be improved.\r\n\r\nPerd\xF3n si no fui claro
    antes.\r\n\r\nCheers\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-29 19:38:33'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "cameron, can you give citations for the studies you cite?\r\n\r\nbecause
    i'm confident if we were to look at them closely,\r\nwe'd find that they are not
    as neat as you describe them.\r\n\r\nand i'm quite sure we'd see great interpersonal
    variability.\r\n\r\nin a print-book, you cannot accommodate that variability.\r\nso
    you'll settle for the mean, to make most people happy.\r\n\r\nbut in an e-book,
    we can let each person customize the\r\ndisplay to reach their own personal optimum,
    rather than\r\nsettling for the \"optimal\" level for the group as a whole...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-30 20:22:37'
- author:
    name: CameronWilliams
    picture: 117391
  body: "@bowerbird:\r\n\r\nI <em>could</em> give citations, if I wanted to spend
    a day at the library, but I really don\u2019t have the time; you could do the
    research, too; the information is out there. Of course there\u2019s variability;
    I never argued against that. That\u2019s why I cite a range for line lengths;
    some faces will make for easily-readable text at 37 characters per line, etc.\r\n\r\nThese
    are just good starting points to build on, not hard & fast rules by much we must
    all be bound. And of course the reader should have some control over the appearance;
    I have no problem with the reader having the ability to change size, etc. I was
    just trying to suggest that we can all work together to achieve the best possible
    results; that the designers of ebooks can benefit from some of the hard-won knowledge
    gained during the past 570 years of printing history, and to give some indication
    that typographers are more than mere \xE6stheticians."
  created: '2009-05-30 21:59:19'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "this reasonable position where you ended up\r\nis the place where i've been
    all along, cameron.\r\n\r\nwhich is why this e-book designer/programmer\r\nis
    here talking with you typographers on typophile.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-31 18:47:37'
- author:
    name: CameronWilliams
    picture: 117391
  body: 'OK, thank you, bowerbird; I was mistaken, and after a second (and third)
    reading, some of your statements were not meant to be intentionally incendiary,
    as I and others here had supposed them to be (but they were interesting and provocative). '
  created: '2009-05-31 20:27:19'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@bowerbird\r\n\"i\u2019m sorry if it hurts your feelings. but users want
    the control.\r\nwhen the choice becomes your design versus their preferences,\r\ntheir
    preferences win out. and it\u2019s not even much of a contest...\"\r\n\r\nHow
    do you know this to be true? Please tell us.\r\nAre you privvy to the insane amount
    of \"telemetry\" gathered about user habits by Microsoft and Google?\r\nHave you
    ever supported real live actual users, visited their workstations, and therefore
    been in a position to observe first-hand and note patterns in their behavior?\r\nI
    have. Thousands of them. And in places where you would expect users to be fairly
    venturesome and leading edge. Viacom, Multi-National Banks. (You haven't lived
    until you've done desktop suppport on a trading floor where, if a trader's workstation
    goes down, the bank can lose, literally lose millions of dollars in the space
    of minutes. There's a lot of turnover.)\r\n\r\nAbsolutely nothing in my experience
    jibes with what you claim. People will accept and stick with the default settings
    they're given every time. Except for a small coterie of \"tinkerers\" and power
    users. And the power user's don't usually mess with the UI defaults either. They're
    more sophisticated in other ways.\r\n\r\nI think you are trying to pass off wishful
    thinking, or a philosophy of a sort, as empirical fact.\r\n\r\nOnce again, how
    do you know your statement is true?"
  created: '2009-06-01 00:13:04'
- author:
    name: faraqat
    picture: 112914
  body: "bowerbird:\r\n\r\n\"Linebreaks per se are no problem.\r\n\r\nlines that go
    longer than the width of the viewport? problem.\r\nbut the same problem that they
    give designers in print, so...\"\r\n\r\nWell... in print we can choose the size
    of the page, so... \r\nEvery book is considered upon it's content... and poetry
    has long been one of the most complex texts to be designed for books. \r\n\r\n\r\nbowerbird:\r\n\r\n\"you
    do the best you can, and count on their poetic sensibility.\"\r\n\r\ni'm sorry,
    this made me laugh a bit :) hum... this would turn into a literacy problem...
    every language teacher would go crazy with this coment!\r\nYou cannot say this
    is of less importance. Books, texts, words... culture! hum... i just remembered
    to ask... is culture even an issue for e-book readers' programers? (this is not
    an attack on your toughts, i'm realy interested in knowing how you programmers
    understand books, texts, and words...)\r\n\r\n\r\nbowerbird:\r\n\r\n\"something
    like concrete poetry? with graphics...\"\r\n\r\n... not sure what to say here...
    \r\n\r\n\r\nok, this looks strange... this seems like a never ending overflow
    of personal arguments, when in reality it should be an overflow of improvement
    propositions. I do not know enough about programing to get into the discution,
    but i believe every problem has a solution... so, there must be a programer somewhere
    wondering how he could resolve these issues. I hope.\r\n\r\np.s. sorry for my
    not-so-good English :("
  created: '2009-06-01 10:04:21'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"People will accept and stick with the default settings they\u2019re given
    every time\"\r\n\r\nI find that completely dependent on the knowledge/ability
    to change said settings.\r\n\r\nOnce I show how people to easily change font sizes
    in the browser, they usually start using that feature. \r\n\r\nWhen I redesigned
    a large corporate intranet, the one feature that many, many people commented on
    was the simple font resizer widget I put in the UI. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-01 19:35:39'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@aluminum\r\n\u201CPeople will accept and stick with the default settings
    they\u2019re given every time\u201D\r\n\r\nA bit of hyperbole. I forget, sometimes,
    on forums that we don't have facial expression and tone of voice working for us.
    ;)\r\nHowever, I think the impulse to just take a thing and use it as it's been
    given to us is rooted in human nature.\r\nAnyway, if someone is given the opportunity
    to sample two different software products, and one has smart, user-friendly defaults
    and the other doesn't, all other things being equal, which one are they going
    to choose?"
  created: '2009-06-02 13:54:45'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Anyway, if someone is given the opportunity to sample two different software
    products, and one has smart, user-friendly defaults and the other doesn\u2019t,
    all other things being equal, which one are they going to choose?\"\r\n\r\nThe
    common sense answer is \"the one with the better UI\"\r\n\r\nReality is that it
    doesn't matter at all. MS isn't the giant company it is today because it creates
    better UIs and more enjoyable user experiences. ;)"
  created: '2009-06-02 15:42:56'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "cameron said:\r\n>   OK, thank you, bowerbird; I was mistaken\r\n\r\nno problem,
    cameron, and no need to apologize either.\r\nit's all good, as the kids say these
    days.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nfaraqut said:\r\n>   You cannot say this is of less importance.
    \r\n\r\ni never said poetry is \"of less importance\".  but...\r\n\r\namerica
    tells us that poetry is of very little importance.\r\nloudly and clearly.  at
    least it has, until quite recently...\r\n\r\nand i can confirm that precisely
    because i _am_ a poet.\r\n\r\nsome of my friends were invited to the poetry jam
    that\r\nbarack and michelle had in the white house last month.\r\n\r\n(i wasn't
    invited, which is probably a good thing, because\r\ni would have asked some embarrassing
    questions, like\r\n\"so, how's that iraqi/afghan pullout coming along?\", and\r\n\"did
    the shutdown of guantanamo have any bad effects?\")\r\n\r\nbut i don't think i'm
    your \"typical\" poet though, since\r\ni named my printing imprint \"'poetry sucks'
    press\"...\r\n\r\nthat's after a poem written by a friend, that starts out with:\r\n
    \    poetry sucks.\r\n     do you know why?\r\n     because poets write this shit\r\n
    \    while children die.\r\n\r\nit's an awesome poem.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   Books, texts,
    words... culture! hum... \r\n>   i just remembered to ask... \r\n>   is culture
    even an issue for e-book readers\u2019 programers? \r\n\r\neducation and culture
    is the main reason i do electronic-books.\r\n\r\nbut i don't think i'm your \"typical\"
    e-book programmer though.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   I do not know enough about programing
    to get into the discution, \r\n>   but i believe every problem has a solution...\r\n\r\nyou
    don't have to be a programmer to come up with a solution.\r\n\r\njust mock up
    some screenshots showing how you would suggest\r\nlines of poetry be handled when
    they're too long for the viewport.\r\n\r\nthe \"traditional\" solution is to split
    the line, and indent the second\r\n(and any subsequent) line so that it's noticeable
    as a continuation...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-02 20:19:38'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '@ bowerbird: Unless I missed it somewhere, I think now might be a good time
    to introduce yourself and share with us a bit of your background.'
  created: '2009-06-02 21:27:42'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '@ bowerbird: Unless I missed it somewhere, I think now would be a good time
    to introduce yourself and share with us a bit of your background.'
  created: '2009-06-02 21:28:00'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "@aluminum\r\n\u201CPeople will accept and stick with the default settings
    they\u2019re given every time\u201D\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/twoexes_4444.jpg]\r\n\r\n\"I
    don't always change fonts, but when I do I prefer Georgia\" "
  created: '2009-06-02 21:46:06'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "christopher dean said:\r\n>   introduce yourself and share with us\r\n\r\ni'd
    rather stay on-topic.\r\n\r\nbut if you want to make a thread specific to me,
    feel free...\r\nhowever, i am _not_ the most interesting man in the world.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-02 22:18:50'
- author:
    name: faraqat
    picture: 112914
  body: "Bowerbird:\r\n\"the \u201Ctraditional\u201D solution is to split the line,
    and indent the second\r\n(and any subsequent) line so that it\u2019s noticeable
    as a continuation...\"\r\nThat's why I pose the question: even when you do that,
    you must consider properly where to split the line. When you change typography
    (shape or size) can the program keep some information (programming) on more that
    one way to split the line properly (when there's more than one way)?"
  created: '2009-06-03 10:23:17'
- author:
    name: CameronWilliams
    picture: 117391
  body: "So, @bowerbird and @faraqat, that\u2019s why I thought that the horizontal-orientation
    solution I proposed was a good one (at least for the iPhone). That, in combination
    with using PDFs as the ebook file, could make for well-designed ebooks, if Adobe
    could provide for automatic line re-breaking when a reader enlarges the display
    (or is that a new PostScript feature I\u2019ve missed?). That seems to me to be
    better, and less memory intensive than a provision for changing typeface and type
    size. Please explain any inherent problems with this suggestion. "
  created: '2009-06-03 14:46:41'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "[[http://www.wired.com/techbiz/people/magazine/17-06/st_thompson#|Clive Thompson
    on the future of reading in a digital world]]. I'd like to draw your attention
    to the second last paragraph:\r\n\r\n\"<em>This would massively improve what bibliophiles
    call book discovery. You're far more likely to hear about a book if a friend has
    highlighted a couple brilliant sentences in a Facebook update\u2014and if you
    hear about it, you're far more likely to buy it in print. Yes, in print: The few
    authors who have experimented with giving away digital copies (mostly in sci-fi)
    have found that they end up selling more print copies, because their books are
    discovered by more people.</em>\"\r\n\r\n(What's the tag for indenting something?)"
  created: '2009-06-03 15:06:19'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@ bowerbird: \"[[http://typophile.com/user/42797|\u2026make a thread specific
    to me\u2026\"]]"
  created: '2009-06-03 15:07:24'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@sii\r\n\r\nYes, I suppose we all prefer what we ourselves have created with
    our own hands. Otherwise why did we bother?\r\n(Well, a paycheck might have <i>something</i>
    to do with it also, I suppose.)\r\n\r\n:)"
  created: '2009-06-03 17:10:35'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "cameron-\r\n\r\nmost e-book reader-programs for the iphone _do_\r\nlet the
    user rotate the unit to a landscape display...\r\n\r\nwhy eucalyptus doesn't,
    i don't really know for sure.\r\n\r\nbut i suspect it's precisely because it would
    make\r\nthe task of doing the pagination even more sticky,\r\nbecause the program
    would have to do 10 of 'em\r\n(5 typesizes at 2 display-widths) instead of just
    5.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-03 20:42:24'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "christopher dean said:\r\n<ul style=\"list-style: none; margin-left:10px;\"><li><em>(What\u2019s
    the tag for indenting something?)</em></li></ul>\r\n\r\nit's \"cite\"...\r\n\r\nexcept
    i found, as did you, that it's broken.\r\n\r\nand a nonbulleted unordered-list
    workaround did not work,\r\nas the inline \"style\" commands were stripped out
    (even though\r\nthey were indeed saved, as they appeared when i edited the post).\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-03 21:05:40'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "This will for sure solve everyone's problems with e-books:\r\n\r\nhttp://smellofbooks.com/\r\n\r\nHappy
    reading.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2009-06-09 19:34:04'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@will powers\r\nMy <a href=\"http://www.readableweb.com/\">company</a> received
    a free can of Smell of Books\u2122, and we ended up ordering a lot more. ;)\r\n\r\nGreat
    link."
  created: '2009-06-10 06:23:04'
date: '2009-05-18 15:27:17'
title: Why e-books look so ugly

---
