---
author:
  name: Peroyomas
  picture: 113355
body: Many characters in [[International Phonetic Alphabet|IPA]] are based on Latin
  and Greek forms. Is considered an independent alphabet for them but Unicode unifies
  them with Latin letters, except for three characters that are unified with the actual
  Greek ones (the beta, the theta and the chi). The IPA is not supposed to be neither
  Latin nor Greek set, but that unification feels awkward since the Latin and Greek
  characters have different traits, and I've seen the beta drawn with a serif at the
  bottom in some IPA resources. Do you think that Unicode needs to make "Latin" characters
  for these? If not, what's the best way to create both an "unified" set for IPA and
  providing proper support for the greek characters at the same time? Or is fine as
  it is and all the somewhat Greek characters must maintain his Greek form?
comments:
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "IPA is essentially an extension of the Latin lowercase alphabet. A few letters
    of non-Latin origin are encoded in Unicode with latin codepoints because these
    are also used in the alphabets of e.g. African languages and have uppercase mapped
    characters that differ in form from the mappings in the original script. Case
    mapping is a functional character property, so needs to be distinguished at the
    character level. As you note, a few Greek letters in IPA are not separately encoded
    as Latin letters, because the distinction between their Latin and Greek use is
    not functional, only stylistic, and hence is considered a glyph-level distinction.\r\n\r\nIn
    the current software environment, my recommendation to clients is to have separate
    fonts for IPA, and not to try to support IPA in the context of fonts that also
    provides more typical Latin and Greek. This is not only an issue for Greek letters,
    by the way, but also for some Latin letters. IPA makes a semantic distinction
    between e.g. double- and single-storey lowercase a, which has implications for
    the design of italic IPA fonts. Similar issues exist for the f and g. The easiest
    way to manage these design issues is to make separate IPA fonts.\r\n\r\nThat said,
    the new OpenType 1.6 specification list of <a href=\"http://www.microsoft.com/typography/otspec/languagetags.htm\">language
    system tags</a> includes entries for IPA and Americanist phonetic transcription,
    and these can be used to trigger 'locl' variant glyph forms. But I'm not aware
    of any mainstream typographic layout software that yet implements these."
  created: '2009-05-18 21:08:06'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: 'As John puts it, right now the best way is to just have a separate font.  But
    if you want to put it all in one big font file for the time being, you could design
    the IPA characters from the Greek block with a Latin style instead of a Greek
    one and include them as a style sheet option. '
  created: '2009-05-18 22:21:12'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>\u2026 to just have a separate font.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis is but anachronistic
    in the age of Unicode and completely archaic when it comes to text composing including
    IPA. There\u2019s normally no need to have a \u201Cgreek beta\u201D alongside
    with a \u201Clatin/ipa beta\u201D. \r\nA good multiscriptual font blends Latin
    and Greek smothly without unduely equalizing them. Hence the fitting of some greek
    letters into the latinish IPA set should work smoothly as well. If not, choose
    a better typeface.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IPA_3611.jpg]"
  created: '2009-05-20 15:43:22'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "<cite>There\u2019s normally no need to have a \u201Cgreek beta\u201D alongside
    with a \u201Clatin/ipa beta\u201D.</cite>\r\n\r\nI'll have to disagree here. Not
    all Greek typefaces for text are designed to blend smoothly alongside the Latin.
    Some historically-informed designs of Greek follow a different ductus from the
    Latin. Why should these designs be cast aside as anachronistic just because the
    Greek letters don't look like Latin letters?\r\n\r\nThere are other cases where
    straightforward equalization based on Unicode points doesn't work. In most normative
    Korean text fonts, the period and the comma will be a bit smaller and sit somewhat
    lower than would be appropriate for the Latin. But there are no separate Unicode
    values for the 'hangul period' or the 'hangul comma' (those would be ridiculous).
    There are loads of such cases, due to different stylistic preferences in different
    languages or different traditions. Until the OpenType locl feature is widely supported,
    having separate fonts is probably the best solution."
  created: '2009-05-20 16:30:31'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Andreas, your approach makes assumptions about the design of the Greek. If,
    as you have done in Andron or Victor Gaultney has done in Gentium, the Greek shares
    the same stroke contrast pattern as the Latin, then the Greek letters may serve
    as IPA forms. But if the Greek is designed with a traditional steep contrast pattern,
    then these letters look really out-of-place in IPA.\r\n\r\nThere is nothing \u2018anachronistic
    in the age of Unicode\u2019 about providing separate fonts for specialised purposes,
    since there is absolutely nothing in the Unicode Standard that demands or even
    recommends that multiple scripts be stylistically harmonised in a single font."
  created: '2009-05-20 17:10:42'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "Well, of course you can always use three or more different typefaces for
    a multiscriptive text. But scholars who publish a 300-pages volume loaded with
    mixed text simply don\u2019t want to do this, they seek a typeface which covers
    *all* they need. 8-bit-encoding was launched to enable precisely that: typeset
    more than one script at once with just one font. That remains the target. All
    I wanted to express is that in the case of IPA it is possible to find a typographically
    convincing solution for that. \u2013 By this I do not want to generally question
    the possible reasons for adjusted local fonts (I did some myself).\r\nAlas, Opentype
    fancies: I still doubt that the average end user\u2019s vast majority will ever
    come to make serious use of it. But that\u2019s another issue  ;-)"
  created: '2009-05-20 17:26:15'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>\u2026 if the Greek is designed with a traditional steep contrast pattern,
    then these letters look really out-of-place in IPA</cite>\r\n\r\nI agree. However,
    the reason why I, victor Gaultney and others have harmonized Latin and Greek (a
    difficult but very interesting task, btw.) is because such fonts are needed for
    scientific publishing. To use two different ripped-off Times fonts because they
    have various beta\u2019s does not make much sense in such cases."
  created: '2009-05-20 17:34:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>...such fonts are needed for scientific publishing.</em>\r\n\r\nRight,
    so you are targeting a specialised publishing need with a specialised font. I'm
    advocating a different kind of specialised font for a more limited need, specifically
    IPA. Since I have customers who need to publish both linguistic texts and Greek
    texts, and who do not want a Latinised Greek for the latter, they are probably
    going to need two fonts, unless their page layout software adds support for the
    'IPPH' language tag before I'm finished designing the types."
  created: '2009-05-20 17:47:39'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>\u201C\u2026 who do not want a Latinised Greek\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    was not talking about a \u2018Latinized Greek\u2019 but about a \u2018harmonized
    Greek\u2019, that is pretty different. I have customers who publish Greek text
    mixed with Latin and they appreciate having a typeface which offers both in a
    classical harmonious style."
  created: '2009-05-20 18:03:46'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "For your amusement, John Hudson's SBL Greek letters masquerading as phonetic
    symbols:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/greekipa_5241.gif]\r\nSorry!"
  created: '2009-05-20 18:21:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Andreas, one person's \u2018harmonised\u2019 is another person's \u2018Latinised\u2019.
    What's \u2018classical\u2019 in this context? Obviously not classical Greek letterforms,
    since there was no minuscule alphabet in the classical period. When Greek minuscule
    letters developed, they did so in a Byzantine context and they share the characteristics
    of most other near-eastern writing, notably the steep nib angle. So the normative
    forms of Greek letters derive from a particular tool, the reed nib, held at a
    particular relationship to the page, and on the other hand there are Latin minuscule
    letters whose normative forms derive from a similar tool but held at a very different
    relationship to the page. Changing the stroke contrast model of the Greek letters
    so that it harmonises with that of the Latin letters is, in my reckoning, a form
    of Latinisation. Sure, people have been doing it for quite a long time now, and
    depending on a number of factors -- tellingly, on the nature of the Latin design
    to which the Greek is harmonised -- the results may be pleasing in themselves.
    But that doesn't change the nature of the exercise."
  created: '2009-05-20 19:41:55'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "I would think in scientific publishing one would want the difference in ductus
    for Greek, given that that means one can distinguish easily o and \u03BF.\r\n\r\nWhile
    agree that two scripts can be harmonized to a point with a single style, once
    you have three or five scripts, you realize quickly that what might work between
    Greek and Latin to make them look the same, won't work with, say, Georgian.  So,
    better (IMO) to find other ways to harmonize them."
  created: '2009-05-20 20:22:57'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>What\u2019s \u2018classical\u2019 in this context?</cite>\r\n\r\nAdmittedly,
    the term \u201Cclassical\u201D is somewhat misleading here when referring to Greek
    typography. Let me talk briefly about a personal experience.\r\n\r\nWhen I traveled
    to Greece two years ago I noticed many many magazines and newspapers sold were
    using typefaces which may be termed \u2018hardcore latinised\u2019. Then I talked
    about that to M. Savidis, a Greek scholar from Athens with a remarkable alertness
    of \u2018Greekness in typography\u2019. He said: oh, that is the wrong direction;
    many do feel \u2018modernised\u2019 when using such a typeface, but many others
    already claimed that this is not the way to go for Greek typography, because it\u2019s
    \u2018not really Greek\u2019. \r\nConsidering that situation, one may conclude
    that the traditional byzantine Greek faces are thought of being \u2018not modern
    enough\u2019 to the Greeks themselves whereas the \u2018modernised\u2019 faces
    are \u2018not Greek enough\u2019 \u2013 to the same Greek eyes. An issue which
    already has been widely debated. \u2013 Why is the situation as such? \r\n\r\nMy
    personal answer to that is, though rather political incorrect: the typical (byzantine)
    traditional ductus of the Greek minuscule typography is inferior to the typical
    (venetian) ductus of Latin minuscules (yes, bash me for that /////). Many do argue:
    why/how can Greek become \u201Cequal\u201C to Latin \u2013 regarding the close
    kinship of the two systems? The wrong interpretation of that question would be:
    \u201Chow Latin can Greek be\u201D. The other possibility of dealing with that
    question is: \u201Chow can Greek get equally \u2018modern\u2019 to match (the
    rank of) Latin?\u201D. This is something very different. \r\nThe attempt of finding
    a way through the middle is to carefully modernise Greek so as to make it \u2018less
    byzantine, more modern, yet *not* less Greek\u2019! I think that approach has
    a future and I am convinced that many Greeks themselves do feel like that.\r\n\r\nBy
    the way, the typical byzantine minuscule mode (in typography) was developed \u2013
    entirely without Greek participation. In fact, it\u2019s a mere product of lousy
    central European lettermaking. Dwelling on Byzantinism for Greek type today is
    to lock Greek into foreign ungreekness. \u2013 No wonder that nowaday\u2019s Greek
    eyes do imagine something else."
  created: '2009-05-20 20:49:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Andreas, a couple of contra points:\r\n\r\nI am not advocating a particular
    style of Greek typography, and not the Byzantine cursive style per se, although
    I have designed a couple of types in this style. I am pointing out that, for any
    script, one needs to be aware of the tools and techniques that contributed to
    the basic shapes, and to recognise that it is possible to do violence to those
    shapes and how they relate to each other if one applies the logic of different
    tools and techniques.\r\n\r\nThe most common typographic text style in Greece
    for serious publishing remains the Didot styled types that in Greek are commonly
    referred to as <em>apla</em>, i.e. \u2018normal\u2019, and typified by Monotype
    Greek 90. The corresponding italic is of Leipzig origin. These represent an authentic
    modernisation of the Byzantine lowercase, in the Romantic period corresponding
    to the Greek war of independence and hence strongly associated with the rebirth
    of the Greek nation. Typographically, they take into account both the change in
    common writing tool and developments in paper manufacture and printing refinement,
    as do the Latin types of the same period. But they do so in a way that preserves
    the distinctive character of the Greek letter shapes.\r\n\r\nIt simply is not
    true that the Byzantine minuscule style of Greek typography was developed \u2018entirely
    without Greek participation\u2019. I recommend to you Constantine Sta\xEFkos'
    <em>Charta of Greek Printing,</em> which catalogues the contribution of Greek
    \xE9migr\xE9 scholars, scribes, and printers across Europe."
  created: '2009-05-20 21:29:54'
- author:
    name: Peter Farago
  body: "Andreas asked me by email to talk about the history of Greek glyphs in the
    IPA and discuss some options for the modern designer, and I figured I might as
    well make my reply here, where others can view and discuss the matter. To review
    Peroyomas's opening post, the IPA mostly consists of variants on latin minuscule
    characters, with a few small caps and handwritten forms thrown in for good measure.
    It also includes eight glyphs of greek origin:\r\n\r\n0251 Latin small letter
    alpha (\u0251)\r\n0252  Latin small letter turned alpha (\u0252)\r\n028A Latin
    small letter upsilon (\u028A)\r\n0263 Latin small letter gamma (\u0263)\r\n0278
    Latin small letter phi (\u0278)\r\n03B2 Greek small letter beta (\u03B2)\r\n03B8
    Greek small letter theta (\u03B8)\r\n03C7 Greek small letter chi (\u03C7)\r\n\r\nThe
    Handbook of the International Phonetic Association of America, which is as close
    as we can get to the holy word on the issue, has this to say in its Appendix 1:\r\n\r\n\"In
    the construction of the IPA attention has been paid not only to the appropriateness
    of each symbol from a phonetic point of view, but also to the suitability of symbols
    from the typographical point of view. The non-roman symbols of the IPA have, as
    far as possible, been made to harmonize with the roman letters. For instance the
    Greek letters included in the IPA are roman adaptations; as the ordinary shape
    of the greek letter [inclined beta] does not harmonize with roman type, in the
    IPA it has been given the form [upright beta with serifed descender].\"\r\n\r\nThe
    extent to which the Greek characters of the IPA must be latinized is thus somewhat
    open to debate - on the one hand, merely setting them upright and unifying weight
    and ductus with the corresponding Latin characters might be adequate. On the other
    hand, the Handbook says that the characters should be harmonized \"as far as possible\",
    and most type designers have gone quite far indeed.\r\n\r\nTo begin with, the
    first four characters listed above are, in essentially all IPA faces, treated
    as symbols distinct from their Greek counterparts, and have received separate
    codepoints in the IPA. 0251 (\u0251) is normally drawn as a handwritten single-story
    lowercase \"a\", although in handwriting many phoneticians draw it as a greek-looking
    fish-alpha. 028A (\u028A) has absolutely nothing to do with greek upsilon (\u03C5)
    and is instead always drawn as a rotated small-cap Omega. 0263 (\u0263) is always
    drawn upright, horizontally symmetrical, and with a visible counter in its descender.\r\n\r\nOf
    the remaining characters, the IPA version of phi has its own codepoint, but the
    rest do not. In general, chi is the least harmonized of the Greek IPA characters,
    usually retaining a cursive aspect to set it apart from lowercase x, with which
    it must be frequently contrasted. Beta, theta and phi, however, are usually drawn
    to closely resemble their latin counterparts.\r\n\r\nThe semi-official typeface
    of the IPA during the 90s was LaserIPA, drawn by <a href=\"http://www.linguistsoftware.com/\">Linguist's
    Software</a>. It's a very Times-like font; graceless and ordinary, but it gets
    the job done.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/LaserIPA_3419.png]\r\n\r\nNote
    the serifed descender of the beta, which perfectly matches the p. The phi features
    a similar but narrower stem, with a serifed descender and an ascender that's not
    quite like anything else in the latin lowercase. The chi remains thoroughly non-latin,
    with a stroke weight that completely contradicts the x, no serifs of any kind,
    and a cursive crossbar.\r\n\r\nThe earliest professionally cut IPA fonts were
    variants of ITC Stone and Linotype Times, which Adobe still sells. Here is Stone
    Serif Phonetic, with some reference characters from Stone Serif Medium:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/StoneSerif_4092.png]\r\n\r\nAgain,
    the beta features a serifed descender which matches the p. The the stem of the
    phi is much closer to that the of the beta and p, although still noticeably thinner,
    and again featuring the unusual top-serif which seems to be drawn from the uppercase
    I. The theta is simply the numeral zero with a crossbar drawn from uppercase H.
    Chi is again exhibits the opposite stroke weight of the x, although an awkward
    attempt at furnishing the character with weird, stubby serifs has been made.\r\n\r\nAccording
    to Adobe, Linotype's Times Phonetic is designed for eight points, and I don't
    have a matching optical size for comparison, so please forgive me for using Apple's
    twelve point edition of Linotype Times.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Times_4041.png]\r\n\r\nI
    think this face is particularly disastrous. As you can see, the beta is not a
    beta at all, but an ess-tzet (!) with a descender stolen from the lowercase p.
    (I hope we can all agree that this precedent should not be followed by future
    designers). Theta, again, is a zero with a crossbar, and chi remains almost entirely
    Greek. Compare the phonetic symbols with the Greek glyph's from Apple's Times
    on the second line.\r\n\r\nThe consensus among the early designers of IPA typefaces
    is therefore pretty clear: Letter forms are upright; chi maintains the Greek ductus
    while beta, theta and phi adopt the latin ductus. Phi has an ascender and descender
    with uppercase-I like serifs. The descender of beta matches the descender of p
    and q.\r\n\r\nThe SIL fonts Charis (above) and Doulos (below) follow this precedent
    precisely:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/SILfonts_4982.png]\r\n\r\nNeither
    one has an associated Greek type, so there's nothing to worry about with respect
    to the shared codepoints. Gentium, on the other hand, has full coverage of Latin,
    Greek, and IPA:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Gentium_6713.png]\r\n\r\nGentium's
    calligraphic ductus allows the Greek and Latin to share the same stroke without
    doing undue violence to either (although I cannot emphasize this enough: despite
    being a linguist's dream in terms of glyph coverage, its texture makes it weird
    to the point of unusability for body text). Unfortunately, I think that the Greek
    beta just does not work with the other IPA glyphs. The use of the d's ascender
    on IPA phi seems logical enough, but I can't help but find the glyph a little
    disconcerting - maybe the stem robs the bowl of its negative space, and it needs
    to be wider to stand up to the p? Theta works fine in either a latin or Greek
    context, here (again, due mostly to Gentium's harmonizing, vaguely hand-drawn
    quality).\r\n\r\nJust to round things off, here are some of the other (non-SIL)
    freely available IPA fonts. From top to bottom, Cardo, Junicode, LeedsUni, and
    Titus Cyerbit.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Misc_3658.png]\r\n\r\nI
    think you will agree with me that these are all unmitigated failures.\r\n\r\nLet
    me conclude, then, with a few thoughts.\r\n\r\n<ol><li>Of the Greek characters
    without IPA-specific codepoints, beta is by far the most problematic. Really think
    hard about offering a latinized glyph variant.</li>\r\n<li>If you make sure that
    your theta stands upright and that your Greek and Latin have generally similar
    weight and ductus, you might be able to get away with one glyph for both systems.</li>\r\n<li>I
    consider chi to be an unsolved problem for the IPA. It seems to me that there
    must be a way of unifying its stroke weight and serifs with the Latin without
    making it and the letter x hopelessly ambiguous. Could a chi-like glyph based
    on the letter y (with serifed upper terminals and a ball terminal on the descender)
    be successful? Maybe a Q-like terminal on the downward diagonal? Previous efforts
    suggest not satisfaction but surrender; this calls for further experimentation.</li></ol>"
  created: '2009-05-24 08:57:19'
- author:
    name: Ross Mills
  body: "This is an issue I have been tackling, and so while I don't know that my
    solutions are the best or even recommendable yet, I can illustrate my experiences.
    In the example below I decided to not have a Greek with a Latin-like ductus, nor
    to hybridize it too much (either being options when you know that your font will
    support both Greek and phonetic transcription) so am left with the problem being
    discussed here. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/latin_Greek_5082.png]\r\n\r\nI
    can't say these are final forms, or that I am completely satisfied with how they
    work yet, but they suggest a possible approach, at least for this particular typeface.
    Shown at the top are some glyphs from the normal Greek, followed by their \u2018Latinised\u2019
    counterparts, some of which are encoded as IPA, some of which need to be mapped
    by some other mechanism. Without support for locl-variants, one option would be
    via stylistic sets, the other (more complicated) option would be to trigger the
    alternates display via [calt]. Either of these hacks presuppose you don't take
    the recommendation to have a separate IPA font for whatever reason.\r\nIn the
    above sample, there are a couple of implementations shown for different contexts:
    Americanist and IPA. Both have similar problems in harmonizing forms, but IPA
    will tend to discrete amounts of text rather then continuous text (whether or
    not that has an influence on how the forms develop is debatable). Another consideration
    for languages which use the Americanist system is that it is possible readers
    will be unfamiliar\u2014or otherwise find odd\u2014the overtly Latinised forms
    of some of the (IPA) Greek characters, as materials published may well have only
    used more \u2018traditional\u2019 Greek letterforms (e.g. the gamma, vs. the IPA
    gamma) and so there is a chance a third form needs to be made."
  created: '2009-05-26 01:37:13'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Thank you Peter and Ross.\r\n\r\nAs I see it, the question about a separate
    phonetics font then, is simply how to draw the glyphs that must reside in the
    Greek Unicode spots. If that is the extent if it, I'd reverse myself on an earlier
    objection to separate fonts for IPA and Greek, as long as the full Latin character
    complement is included in the IPA font.\r\n\r\nI've used both Stone & Times in
    the PostScript Type 1 days. It was a mess, having the (2) separate IPA fonts for
    Stone and (4) separate Times fonts in the Linotron 202 days. But of course that
    was in part due to the the limitation of 8-bit fonts.\r\n\r\nFor my own work,
    where I only have to coordinate with two other comps, I'll probably use a stylistic
    set to switch to the phonetic Greek characters. But these are end-user only fonts,
    and the work environment allows \"voice\" communication (as in \"Hey, Charles,
    whatdidyoudohere?\"). You can argue the separate/same font either way when both
    Greek and \"phonetic Greek\" are included.\r\n\r\nAgain, Peter, thanks for the
    good discussion on what these glyphs should look like."
  created: '2009-05-26 03:11:44'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: For the thread, IPA = [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPA|International Phonetic
    Alphabet]].
  created: '2009-05-26 03:58:13'
- author:
    name: Ross Mills
  body: "<em>\u2018...the question about a separate phonetics font then, is simply
    how to draw the glyphs that must reside in the Greek Unicode spots. If that is
    the extent if it, I\u2019d reverse myself on an earlier objection to separate
    fonts for IPA and Greek...\u2019</em>\r\n\r\nThe answer is that there are options.
    The approach is dependent on the circumstance. The user may have some valid rationale
    for wanting a single font, or separate fonts. This decision may be informed by
    whether the typeface is new, and decisions can be made from the ground up, or
    whether you have to work with an existing design, whose IPA and Greek glyphs may
    or may not be usable, elegant, or functional. If this is the case, are you willing
    to re-draw the Greek to suit an environment in which they are used for phonetics?
    Does this compromise their use for Greek language text (if that is a priority)?
    Or perhaps you simply have to make do with what you have for fiscal reasons. Options.\r\nFonts
    are tools, and tools are mutable dependent on their application. The option I
    have shown for one particular typeface is one of maximum function and at the same
    time respecting the scenarios it may be used for; whether for typesetting Greek
    classics or Salishan\u2014I can't discount either. Such an approach may well be
    outside the purview of a single project, but in the larger context of many diverse
    projects may be viable\u2014and indeed preferable. So, it may be that re-working
    some glyphs is sufficient; or if you are willing to take on the baggage, a more
    comprehensive approach which will suit wider applications, if such development
    is not too onerous. Or, one could just license a typeface to suit, should it exist,
    and its design be suitable for its given tasks."
  created: '2009-05-26 06:00:46'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Thank you, Peter and Ross, for your fine posts. It's great to have an overview
    of the current options for setting IPA as well as a preview of what's to come.\r\n\r\nThe
    selection of freely-available non-SIL IPA fonts made me cringe. I hope at least
    that those who use IPA symbols regularly would know better than to use these.\r\n\r\nHuronia
    (the design in Ross's sample) is looking really great! In addition to the IPA
    symbols needed for American languages, I like the organic design of the Canadian
    Syllabics, especially the cursive. My only complaint is that the small Latin letter
    upsilon, \u028A, looks too literally like a small upside-down capital omega at
    the moment; I think the serifs should be simple. But that's very much a minor
    complaint about a typeface that everyone dealing with American languages will
    be extremely grateful for. Any idea when it will be ready?\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-26 10:00:01'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "It should also be noted that IPA-specific forms are needed not only for some
    Greek characters, but also for Latin characters in italic fonts. Since IPA makes
    a sematic distinction between different shapes of the letters a, f, and g, this
    distinction needs to be maintained across all styles of a typeface family. Here
    is an illustration of this issue that I made for a client recently, using the
    'IPPH' localised variants that we recently added to the MS Cambria fonts:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IPAitalic_4194.gif]"
  created: '2009-05-26 12:00:06'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Indeed, John, for me it's common to get the correction \"please use italic
    'a'\" -- where, of course, I <em>had</em> used an italic font along, not knowing
    the author meant (semantically) 'the upright a' in an emphasize font.\r\n\r\n<cite>The
    semi-official typeface of the IPA during the 90s was LaserIPA ...</cite>\r\n\r\n...
    and that still haunts us at night, as elderly(?) linguists complain loudly if
    I have the nerve to use an actual beta instead of the ugly one (with the serif
    foot)."
  created: '2009-05-26 15:13:19'
- author:
    name: Peter Farago
  body: "Ross, I love your small-cap \u019B. Who did you design this for? Are there
    any languages that use the symbol in their practical orthographies?\r\n\r\nJohn,
    you are correct to point out the need to distinguish the single- and double-story
    as in Italic IPA, and that g should always appear in a single-story variant. However,
    I'm not sure I know any system where your two f glyphs are contrastive - are you
    thinking, perhaps, of \u025F or \u0283?\r\n\r\nTheunis, the serifed beta <em>is</em>
    ugly on its own terms, but it has to be considered in the context of the latin
    characters here. I realize dressing a beta up like a Latin character seems like
    a cruel sort of thing to do, but I think it's better than sticking a Greek beta
    in the middle of a bunch of latin characters.\r\n\r\nFor the thread, I recently
    stumbled upon IPAPhon, a very old (c. 1994) set of phonetic characters drawn up
    in the style of Palatino, created by <a href=\"http://www.chass.utoronto.ca/~rogers/\">Henry
    Rogers</a>, a linguist at the University of Toronto. They are not totally unproblematic
    as typefaces, but I wanted to share a few of their attributes. For one thing,
    he gets the various a characters absolutely right:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IPAPhonA_6080.png]\r\n\r\nI
    was also totally charmed by his latinized chi:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IPAphonChi_3626.png]\r\n\r\nThis
    is clearly just an x with a stretched-out downward diagonal and a normal-length
    upward diagonal, and it has no right to work as well as it does, but it strikes
    me as quite tolerable: noticeably distinct from x, latin, kind of clever and with
    a little bit of off-kilter personality.\r\n\r\nOne other thing to consider when
    talking about italic IPA faces that I don't think anyone here has brought up is
    the contrast between v and \u028B (028B). \u028B is itself derived from an italic
    v, much as \u0251 is derived from an italic a, but because the letter shapes themselves
    do not drastically differ, keeping them distinct is really hard. This is another
    problem that I don't think anybody has really solved adequately - here are a few
    of the faces I have that include italic IPA, and how they treat the issue:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/vs_6063.png]\r\n\r\nGentium
    does it best, but I think it's just an irritating glyph in general. I never know
    how to handwrite it, either.\r\n\r\n<em>The selection of freely-available non-SIL
    IPA fonts made me cringe. I hope at least that those who use IPA symbols regularly
    would know better than to use these.</em>\r\n\r\nMy desperation for a straightforward
    old-style phonetic typeface with italics is so deep that I actually seriously
    considered using Junicode for a few runs of IPA in a paper last year (I didn't
    happen to need any of the greek glyphs at the time). I'm beginning to think I
    may have to draw such a face myself. Unfortunately, my skills and experience are
    as close to zero as you could imagine. Can anyone here tell me about the methods
    and tools I would need to draw up the relevant glyphs in the style of, say, Garamond
    Premier Pro?"
  created: '2009-05-26 22:00:05'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: ">I\u2019m beginning to come to the conclusion that the only way for such
    a font to be created is to do it myself.\r\n\r\nIt's a bloody ungrateful job :-)
    The linguists just cannot <em>stop</em> adding new \"variants\" into the mix.
    And more likely than not, you <em>will</em> need regular, italics, bold, and bold
    italics -- at least for the most frequent characters.\r\n\r\nFor tools, you are
    required to have a program that can output either only TrueType, or full-fledged
    OpenType. That is, unless you want to restrict yourself to a niche market with
    some propriety format! There are lots of editors, from nigh-on usable to excellent
    -- FontLab is considered the very best. FontForge is a free product, but you'll
    have to wrestle it into submission first.\r\n\r\nYou will need a fairly advanced
    editor if you want to add OTF goodness. Microsoft VOLT (free) might be useful
    if you want to add self-aligning diacritics, although I didn't try that myself
    so far.\r\n\r\nAs for methods: there seems no way around 're-using' parts of the
    target font. You need at least the same x-height and stem width for your new characters.
    Since most IPA characters are based on existing ones, you can use parts as base
    for the new ones. Some artistic appreciation comes in handy if you need to rotate
    an existing glyph; some regular fonts, and most italics, do not survive that treatment
    without extensive re-aligning of stems and diagonals. It's hell to create a pleasing
    italic schwa (rotated 'e') ..."
  created: '2009-05-26 22:04:18'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Peter, I would use FontLab FontStudio. I've been using FontLab a long time,
    including the period when we used \"Buffalo TeX\" (our implementation of the old
    Y&Y TeX).\r\n\r\nBut that was 8-bit fonts. Now we use InDesign. It may be that
    another font editing program would better meet your needs if you plan on sticking
    with a 16-bit version of TeX. Are you going to have to rewrite all the OT features
    for the TeX you use? Is the fact that FontLab will compile the existing features
    of Garamond Premier Pro of interest to you? Those sorts of questions.\r\n\r\nThe
    program is not cheap; there may be a student discount.\r\n\r\nThe learning curve
    is not quick, but it is worth it.\r\n\r\nIf you cannot draw -- not in the sense
    that Matthew Carter meant when he said \"I can't draw\", but in my sense, where
    I *really* can't draw, you can still do work. Basically, as complicated as I get
    is to cut apart existing pieces & hook them up again. If the curves need a little
    work, I can do that. I never start from scratch; I don't have the skill.\r\n\r\nThis
    runs counter to most of the people who hang out on Typophile, they can all draw,
    can all create glyphs from scratch. But with patience, you can fiddle things into
    shape.\r\n\r\nCharles Ellertson\r\n\r\nEdit: I see the subject of feature files
    has come up.\r\n\r\nFontLab will export and export feature files. I use an old
    text editor to write them, Vedit. A better, modern program would be  EditPad Pro.
    Much better than writing the features in FL, but that too can be done."
  created: '2009-05-26 22:10:43'
- author:
    name: Ross Mills
  body: "<em>\u2018My only complaint is that the small Latin letter upsilon, \u028A,
    looks too literally like a small upside-down capital omega at the moment[...]Any
    idea when it will be ready?\u2019</em>\r\n\r\nIf you're looking at the specimen
    on the website, its nearly two months out of date\u2014yes, I did change the design
    of \u2018\u028A\u2019. I hope to have the regular done soon, but can't give an
    exact date as its being done on my own time and dime.\r\n\r\n<em>\u2018your small-cap
    \u019B. Who did you design this for? Are there any languages that use the symbol
    in their practical orthographies?\u2019</em>\r\n\r\nI designed it for whoever
    uses the barred lambda. My general principal was/is to provide users with full
    casing support (uppercase, lowercase, and smallcaps), insofar as possible and
    practical, despite the fact many languages have not traditionally had that option.
    It may be the lack of full casing for some characters has become a defacto standard
    or at least the expectation\u2014ie. official orthographies may not specify casing
    rules, but this doesn't preclude casing being used for titling, emphasis etc..
    I simply want to present users the same typographic sophistication available to
    other <em>(majority)</em> languages\u2014whether or not anyone will use them,
    I don't know yet, but at least the option is there."
  created: '2009-05-26 23:06:25'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Peter: <em>John, you are correct to point out the need to distinguish the
    single- and double-story as in Italic IPA, and that g should always appear in
    a single-story variant. However, I\u2019m not sure I know any system where your
    two f glyphs are contrastive...</em>\r\n\r\nYes, that needs a bit more explanation.
    The descending hook is a generative form in IPA (palatal); so even though the
    hooked-descender f is not used within IPA, I think descending hooks within that
    system should not be treated as stylistic elements as in typical italic typefaces.\r\n\r\nThe
    hooked-descender f is used extensively in African alphabets (to indicate a voiceless
    bilabial fricative), and needs to be distinguished in form from the regular f
    character. In an italic font, this means that the regular f needs a localised
    form, either non-descending or with a straight descender."
  created: '2009-05-27 00:14:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I find the IPA <em>chi</em> by far the most difficult of the special forms
    to design. I think it needs to retain some <em>chi-</em>ness, probably through
    retention of the Greek stroke contrast: otherwise it looks too static.\r\n\r\nI
    like Ross' solution for the Huronia IPA."
  created: '2009-05-27 00:18:43'
- author:
    name: Peter Farago
  body: "John: <em> The descending hook is a generative form in IPA (palatal); so
    even though the hooked-descender f is not used within IPA, I think descending
    hooks within that system should not be treated as stylistic elements as in typical
    italic typefaces.</em>\r\n\r\nOkay, I see where you might have gotten that idea,
    but the \"featural\" elements of the IPA shouldn't be treated as the featural
    elements of a system like Hangul. Each glyph is individually defined. While there
    are a few recurring elements that seem to have their own meaning (like the right
    hooked descender that derives all the retroflex consonants from the alveolars),
    this shouldn't be extended to the j-tail of the palatals. For one thing, there
    are palatals that don't have it (c, \xE7 and \u028E), but more importantly, the
    idea of /f/ with palatal coarticulation is nonsensical. An /f/ with a palatal
    secondary articulation would be transcribed as /f\u02B2/. No one could ever see
    the italic f and confuse it for anything (except maybe \u0283 or \u0284, but there
    will always be similar-looking characters in a system as finicky as the IPA).
    Anyway, italic f in IPA should definitely have the same form as the corresponding
    text font.\r\n\r\nEwe is another story, and I thank you for pointing it out to
    me. Sounds like a good job for that Sabon-style italic f.\r\n\r\n<em>I think it
    needs to retain some chi-ness, probably through retention of the Greek stroke
    contrast: otherwise it looks too static.</em>\r\n\r\nObviously you have precedent
    on your side with that position; but if nothing else in the system has Greek stress,
    I just think the chi ends up looking terribly lost."
  created: '2009-05-27 03:08:37'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Here are my greek and IPA letters and also a sample text with them.  Not
    100% finished but getting there. Although I admit I just did it today, the chi
    actually looks pretty good when I've set a word or two and also in a larger body
    of transcription.  It also makes for some nice diacritic positioning.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/corunna_ipa_2sample_3869.png]\r\nLower
    quality for the sample text but it's to see how it all works together:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/corunna_ipa_3sample_4472.png]\r\nThe
    transcription is from a sample phonetics exam with a few random letters replaced
    by the latinized greek letters to give them context.  If anyone has some extremely
    close transcriptions of languages with a higher phonetic inventory than Spanish
    and could pass them along for testing I'd be most appreciative."
  created: '2009-05-28 02:37:26'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "I was out for some other business, so my reply comes a bit late.\r\n\r\nThanks
    to Peter Farago very much for his most valuable font survey.\r\nI allow myself
    to add an Andron-sample of the letters in question for comparison and invite you
    to comment:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Andron_Phonetics_3477.jpg]\r\n\r\nThese
    are all standard glyphs of the font, no variants (of which the fonts have many,
    too). You\u2019ll note a conflict in Italics with the v and the upsilon, a case
    similar to the IPA-a-problem described by John Hudson. If I change the Italic
    v to make it different from the upsilon, this becomes an issue for mathematics,
    where a distinction between ital. v and ital. nu is required \u2026  a mess.\r\n\r\nAnd
    this is how text set in Greek or Phonetics only look like in Andron Mega:\r\n(note,
    the very same glyphs as shown above)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Andron_Ilias_Reg_It_5080.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Andron_UPA_3983.jpg]"
  created: '2009-05-28 15:06:56'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "   <cite>1. Of the Greek characters without IPA-specific codepoints, beta
    is by far the most problematic. Really think hard about offering a latinized glyph
    variant.</cite>\r\nI agree. However, if a proper blending of Latin and Greek is
    seen as a desirable option for fonts, it would not be neccessary.\r\n\r\n   <cite>2.
    If you make sure that your theta stands upright and that your Greek and Latin
    have generally similar weight and ductus, you might be able to get away with one
    glyph for both systems.</cite>\r\nThis shall be the target. \r\n\r\n  <cite>3.
    I consider chi to be an unsolved problem for the IPA. It seems to me that there
    must be a way of unifying its stroke weight and serifs with the Latin without
    making it and the letter x hopelessly ambiguous. Could a chi-like glyph based
    on the letter y (with serifed upper terminals and a ball terminal on the descender)
    be successful? Maybe a Q-like terminal on the downward diagonal? Previous efforts
    suggest not satisfaction but surrender; this calls for further experimentation.</cite>\r\nSee
    my last posting for that.\r\n\r\nAllow me one last remark adressed to all Do-it-yourself-fontists:
    D O N \u2019T  do it \u2013 unless you\u2019re a trained type designer. The samples
    shown above of all these free fonts may illustrate what I mean. \r\n"
  created: '2009-05-28 15:26:42'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>Allow me one last remark adressed to all Do-it-yourself-fontists: D
    O N \u2019T do it \u2013 unless you\u2019re a trained type designer.</cite>\r\n\r\nOne
    might as well say to all the do-it-yourself type designers: D O N ' T do it --
    unless you are a trained compositor with strong editorial skills."
  created: '2009-05-28 16:38:50'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "further discussion: http://typophile.com/node/58725\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-04 17:47:55'
date: '2009-05-18 20:22:53'
node_type: forum
title: Greek characters on IPA

---
