---
author:
  name: onemandub
body: "Assuming that the expert typophiles here have already discussed this matter,
  i apologise in advance for what i have no doubt will upset more than one of the
  visitors to this forum.\r\n\r\ni was recently asked to rework an outside designers
  input for promotional material prior to the receipt of final titles when i noticed
  that a bold Gill had been used (and pathetically stretched) in their \"signed off\"
  logo design. This work was for a family show across Scotland and as a borderline
  autistic typeface geek i rapidly recalled the somewhat shocking revelations of Gills
  life throughout the early to mid 90's where his extreme sexual misbehaviour was
  detailed. Not only was he prone to extra marital affairs (hardly unique) but also
  child abuse (his 2 daughters) incest (his sister) and most worryingly of all, bestiality
  (the family dog).\r\n\r\nI chose to avoid using Gill thereafter. Am i alone in this
  decision?\r\n\r\nJonathan S.\r\n\r\n\r\nInformation taken from;\r\n\r\nEric Gill
  by Fiona MacCarthy, Faber & Faber 1989."
comments:
- author:
    name: onemandub
  body: "Clearly the correct English word for abuse of your family pet goes beyond
    Typophile rules.\r\n\r\nApologies.\r\n\r\nJS."
  created: '2009-05-19 18:28:43'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "You are not alone. Aside from Gill I avoid all italic types as their inventor,
    Griffo, was a convicted murderer. I also avoid the work of contemporary type designers
    who support pot-smoking. Outside the world of type I never use the month name
    \u201CJuly\u201D due to the various crimes of Julius Cesar, or the word \u201CThursday\u201D
    due to its association with the Norsk god of war.     "
  created: '2009-05-19 18:36:33'
- author:
    name: bemerx25
    picture: 112539
  body: Jonathan - you're the first I've heard of avoiding Gill's typefaces because
    of his personal behavior... Frankly I think there's enough evil in the world *right
    now* that I wouldn't be worrying about the morality of using a dead man's typeface.
  created: '2009-05-19 18:58:46'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: I boycott museums because Picasso was a womanizer and Caravaggio a rapist,
    the Opera because Wagner was an anti-semite, modernism because it sprang from
    the minds of committed communists, religious cultists, vegetarians, and weirdos,
    and anything to do with Milton Glaser because he did a poster for that filthy
    hippie Bob Dylan.
  created: '2009-05-19 19:05:28'
- author:
    name: onemandub
  body: "There's humour here obviously. I'd still use the Anti-Nazi genius Paul Renner's
    work despite the fact that Martin Bormann decided \"Futura\" was perfect for their
    manifesto. Hardly Paul's fault after all. Several Nazi era German graphic designers
    were frowned upon by the party due to their refusal to take part in Third Reich
    matters - Otto Aicher (Rotis design genius) fell foul of his anti Nazi beliefs
    within Germany, finally being arrested after refusing to join the Hitler Youth...\r\n\r\nThe
    question is - where do you draw the line?\r\n\r\nUsing any English language that
    stems from Julius Cesar will bother few while obtaining design hints and tips
    from a self confessed child abuser from 80 years ago kind of changes the arguement
    a little."
  created: '2009-05-19 19:11:24'
- author:
    name: onemandub
  body: As for the current trend in world wide nightmarish behaviour - agreed. I pay
    attention to that too. I am not suggesting we become some kind of moral arbitration
    service but i did wonder what was felt amongst yourselves so many thanks for the
    response.
  created: '2009-05-19 19:14:34'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: There are many reasons not to use Gill. <a href="http://typographica.org/001084.php">May
    I suggest this as a starting point for alternatives.</a> But there are at least
    a few reasons to use it. In my view, serving your clients needs is the "higher
    ground" to be found here. If that means using Gill, probably should gut it out.
    If you have latitude to look elsewhere, do it. This world is full of lovely typefaces
    who's first connotation is something other than dog-shagging.
  created: '2009-05-19 19:33:28'
- author:
    name: onemandub
  body: "Many thanks Randy - sorry for the delay in replying but i was listening to
    Gary Glitter for the last 15 minutes. You're absolutely correct regarding clients
    of course - most of whom appear clueless within the world of television graphics
    (my current lengthy domain) Typograhica certainly go to it where font alternatives
    are concerned. It's good to be reminded that the internet provides considerably
    more than pornography once in a while.\r\n\r\nYours gratefully\r\n\r\nJonathan
    S."
  created: '2009-05-19 19:45:56'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "People boycott all manner of products and businesses for their behavior.
    They may give some of their proceeds to organizations you disagree with. They
    may harm the environment more than you're willing to swallow. You may feel their
    EULA is totalitarian. And you may just plain not like them. To me this is all
    reasonable, and so is avoiding Gill Sans.\r\n\r\n- - -\r\n\r\nOne other thought:
    if you discovered that your dead uncle was a sexual predator, and also that he
    had left you something useful (eg. money) when he died, you have a couple of options.
    1) Refuse the money on moral grounds, 2) Decide he was a jerk, but his money is
    fine and take a trip to Canc\xFAn, or 3) Give some or all of the money to an organization
    that helps victims of sexual crimes. Number three is the only solution with a
    redemptive element, which to me makes it a good option.\r\n\r\nNot sure what kind
    of \"Family Show\" this is, but using Gill might be akin to #3, even if you are
    the only one in Scotland who appreciates your redemptive intentions. Likely very
    few will recognize Gill Sans, know it's name, know the back story, and be offended.
    This is more about you."
  created: '2009-05-19 20:04:05'
- author:
    name: onemandub
  body: You're right - obviously. Your mention of the EULA is also somewhat coincidental
    as a recent arguement with one of London's current favourite type designers proved.
    How dare i fix his overpriced typeface with FontLab rather than waiting another
    2 months and paying even more through the nose for a font that didn't work on
    an Aston caption generator. In future i'll tell the "client" to choose another
    more operation friendly typeface...
  created: '2009-05-19 23:02:20'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Otto Aicher (Rotis design genius)</em>\r\n\r\nUsually known as Otl Aicher..."
  created: '2009-05-20 02:06:48'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I love the man's type if not the man's behavior, so I'll go on using them.\r\n\r\nBut
    kudos to you for your decision. I can't fault that. "
  created: '2009-05-20 02:52:43'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Excuse me but that is unreasonable. Eric Gill did good type design work,
    and his type design work must be judged by it's own merits. Does it makes any
    difference on Eric Gill past behavior boicoting his work? \r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2009-05-20 04:20:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I would be sensitive to the use of Gill typefaces in something like a brochure
    for survivors of childhood sexual abuse, simply because if someone were to draw
    attention to Gill's abuse of his daughters it would cloud the purpose of the brochure
    and may cause distress to the clients. This isn't a matter of principle, but of
    sensitivity.
  created: '2009-05-20 05:41:48'
- author:
    name: onemandub
  body: '2 things -  1: Otl Aicher was known to several acquaintances as Otto AND
    Otl...& 2: I never stated that Eric Gill was a poor typographer...he did however
    have a few bad decisions where his daughters, sister and their family dog were
    concerned. I didn''t say NEVER use his fonts - i said that I had decided to do
    that. It IS however, VERY important that designers are aware what this man did
    to his own family during their youth the next time they rave about him...'
  created: '2009-05-20 10:30:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Jonathan: <em>It IS however, VERY important that designers are aware what
    this man did to his own family during their youth the next time they rave about
    him.</em>\r\n\r\nIs it? If they're raving about Eric Gill the man, then I would
    agree that they need to take into account the known actions of the man's life,
    including his known sins. But presumably most designers who rave about Gill are
    talking about his design work, not how he lived. Thanks to Fiona MacCarthy's book,
    I doubt if there are very many people interested in Eric Gill who are not aware
    of his abuse of his children or his \u2018experiment with dog\u2019. Indeed, if
    you look through the Typophile archives, you'll see that someone brings these
    things up almost every time Gill the man is mentioned.\r\n\r\nAnd if \u2018what
    this man did to his own family during their youth\u2019 is always to be acknowledged
    whenever his name is mentioned, then perhaps the coda needs also to be acknowledged:
    that he was contrite at least for what he did to his daughters and that his daughters
    forgave him.\r\n\r\nAnd I wonder, what is the purpose of calling to mind Gill's
    sins? What do you do with these sins once you have acknowledged them? You still
    have to judge the work on its own merits. You don't look at the Perpetua lowercase
    <em>a</em> and think \u2018Ah yes, there is the <em>a</em> of a sexual predator
    if ever I saw one!\u2019 You have, as I suggested above, a duty to your client
    to be sensitive to the appropriateness of using Gill's typefaces for particular
    projects, just as you would have to be sensitive to the playing of Wagner's wedding
    march at a Jewish wedding. There are contexts within which some things are inappropriate
    because of their associations. But there are also many contexts in which the same
    associations are irrelevant."
  created: '2009-05-20 17:41:00'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Jonathan, perhaps you could start a "Ban Gill" web-site. It would put you
    on the fast track to internet celebrity. In five or six years you may even get
    interviewed by the BBC. '
  created: '2009-05-20 18:39:33'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">...shocking revelations of Gills life.. The question is - where do you draw
    the line?\r\n\r\nI draw the line when someone uses hearsay and innuendo as if
    there were established facts that can be substituted for a public record of a
    crime. But, we all have our own pencils. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-20 18:52:08'
- author:
    name: onemandub
  body: "\"I draw the line when someone uses hearsay and innuendo as if there were
    established facts that can be substituted for a public record of a crime.\"\r\n\r\nUnfortunately
    David - the information picked up by Fiona MacCarthy was in Gill's own volumous
    diaries. Hardly \"hearsay and innuendo\".\r\n\r\nAnyway - all i stated & asked
    in the first place was as follows;\r\n\r\n\"I chose to avoid using Gill thereafter.
    Am i alone in this decision?\"\r\n\r\nSome of the response to that clearly didn't
    help the discussion.\r\n\r\nPerhaps we can move along from this now.\r\n\r\nJonathan
    S.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-20 19:29:11'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">the information picked up by Fiona MacCarthy was in Gill\u2019s own volumous
    diaries... Hardly \u201Chearsay and innuendo\u201D.\r\n\r\nYou've hit the exact
    legal definitions of both hearsay and innuendo. \r\n\r\nYou are presenting as
    fact in your own decision, that what Gill wrote was true, that what Ms. MacCarthy
    read was accurate to what he wrote, and then, what she said she read of what he
    wrote is fact?\r\n\r\n>Am i alone in this decision?\r\n\r\nThere are so many possibilities
    for error in this string of past events from which you're building your facts,
    it would be inconceivable for me to base my typographic decisions on them. \r\n\r\n>Perhaps
    we can move along from this now.\r\n\r\nYes, now that you've asked us all what
    we think of your slime on someone who can't defend themselves, we can gladly move
    on. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-20 22:22:19'
- author:
    name: onemandub
  body: "Very good David\r\n\r\nOne would have thought that you might already have
    studied this story far enough to know what is now commonly accepted as truth.
    My \"slime\" by the way is based upon the extreme disappointment of documentary
    evidence. I had absolutely no knowledge of Gill's extreme sexual behaviour prior
    to the BBC documentary or the MacCarthy biography.\r\n\r\nAre you suggesting that
    he simply chose to make up these appalling stories to ruin his character after
    his passing? Having seen several of Gill's erotic drawings prior to the 1980's
    & early 90's exposure, one merely compared it to several other artists work. You
    are clearly assuming his own written words were false because he wasn't prosecuted
    for his crimes of hellish abuse. He married in 1920 & died in 1940 David so his
    family were  probably still coming to terms with his faults and flaws considering
    their potential ages at this point.\r\n\r\nYour criticism of what amounts to a
    fairly simple question says more about you than me. Considering the varied response
    to my first post i suspect i'm not entirely alone. I should point out that as
    a junior designer in the mid 1980's i couldn't see past Gill's type design and
    that even 20 years down the line when i see useage on a daily basis i find his
    work inspiring. Just not as much as i did back then.\r\n\r\nIn future i won't
    bother my arse seeking alternative opinion - but to explain clearly and finally;\r\n\r\nIf
    there had been ANY bullshit in MacCarthy's book or the BBC doc then The Eric Gill
    Society would have plenty to say about it. Even under English law MacCarthy would
    have been struggling to get away with work of this kind relating to a dead man
    if she was unable to provide the source. Which she did.\r\n\r\n\r\nThank you."
  created: '2009-05-20 23:33:38'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Unfortunately David - the information picked up by Fiona MacCarthy
    was in Gill\u2019s own volumous diaries.</cite>\r\n\r\nHave you ever come across
    an issue of <em>Penthouse Forum</em> or <em>Heavy Metal</em>? There\u2019s no
    shortage of guys who write about or draw sick sexual acts that never occur."
  created: '2009-05-21 00:04:02'
- author:
    name: onemandub
  body: "Being that it's over 25 years since i've poured over Penthouse, i decided
    to check over some of the comments written since i read the biography in question
    (over a decade ago).\r\n\r\nNot sure where you are James but here in the UK it's
    still illegal to suggest sex with your sister, your daughters OR your dog whether
    it's true or not.\r\n\r\nThis article appeared in The Guardian online back in
    2006.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.guardian.co.uk/artanddesign/2006/jul/22/art.art\r\n\r\nThis
    also corrects my statement that Gill married in 1920 - it was 1904.\r\n\r\nApologies
    for this - it is years since i studied Gill.\r\n\r\nJonathan S."
  created: '2009-05-21 00:35:16'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Not sure where you are James but here in the UK it\u2019s still illegal
    to suggest sex with your sister, your daughters OR your dog whether it\u2019s
    true or not.</cite>\r\n\r\nFortunately I live in a country with a rather liberal
    constitution, so I can suggest that I rape bats, cook them, and hand them out
    on Halloween without much fear of persecution."
  created: '2009-05-21 00:55:15'
- author:
    name: onemandub
  body: Bats? Now that i could deal with.
  created: '2009-05-21 01:17:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I'm not aware on any serious challenges to MacCarthy's expos\xE9 or even
    any denials. \r\n\r\nOne of Gill's granddaughters -- Juliana, the daughter of
    Petra Gill and Denis Tegetmeier -- lives in Vancouver. I met her husband a few
    years ago and she very kindly sent me a copy of the catalogue of beautiful works
    that David Jones made as gifts for her mother. Her husband alluded to Gill's sexual
    escapades when we spoke, with no suggestion that the stories were untrue or that
    the family sought to deny them."
  created: '2009-05-21 01:47:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "There was a discussion about this on Typographica in 2002, and I think these
    comments I made about the art-historical significance of the revelations are still
    valid:\r\n\r\n<em>Fiona McCarthy had a legitimate reason to expose Gill's sexual
    biography, since it is part of the history of the communities (communes, really)
    which he formed, and also relates directly to the tension of the religious and
    the erotic in his art. There is an interesting unpublished essay by the English
    novelist and critic Alan Wall, which analyses some of Gill's art in light of his
    'priapic adventurism'. It is unpleasant stuff, but it informs the work and necessarily
    shades interpretation.</em>"
  created: '2009-05-21 01:54:27'
- author:
    name: onemandub
  body: "Thank you for that comment John. Perhaps that'll inform certain others here.\r\n\r\nBeing
    attacked over this was particularly unfair when you consider my original point.
    Something that was never intended to add new scandal to an existing tale with
    factual backing.\r\n\r\nThat said, it IS now time that we leave this before someone
    else adds to a problem of some greater proportion."
  created: '2009-05-21 02:02:22'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: That's it. I propose that all font designers be bonded to avoid this sort
    of problem in the future.
  created: '2009-05-21 04:57:55'
- author:
    name: ncaleffi
    picture: 113555
  body: Interesting thread - besides anyone's personal ideas, it raises the question
    of the relationship between a man's life (or ideas) and his work. Take, just to
    remember a few examples, Martin Heidegger, Celine, Ezra Pound and Knut Hamnsun,
    who were all, in different ways, supporters of nazism and fascism - proudly and
    in a public form. We are talking of some of the greatest cultural personalities
    of the XX century, four men who had a very strong influence (to say the least)
    on philosophy, poetry, literature. Should we ban their ideas or their books because
    of this?
  created: '2009-05-21 10:11:18'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Should we ban their ideas or their books because of this?\r\nAnd it doesn't
    stop there; Layla and Other Assorted Love Songs (the drummer killed his mom),
    Mozart, ( or 'most tarts', slept with teenage girls), The Who (their lead guitarist
    is a Nazi), The Beatles, (were all adulterers) and Elvis (must have dome something
    illegal or Nixon wouldn't have given him an FBI badge); they should all make you
    turn off the radio?\r\n\r\n>Her husband alluded to Gill\u2019s sexual escapades
    when we spoke, with no suggestion that the stories were untrue or that the family
    sought to deny them.\r\nBy \"the stories\", John, do you mean the stories of alleged
    abuse, or the usually run-of-the-mill man talk?\r\n\r\n>so his family were probably
    still coming to terms with his faults and flaws \r\n\"Were probably still... \"?
    Why are you persisting?\r\n\r\n>Bats? Now that i could deal with.\r\nI think that
    says more about you than about me. ;)\r\n\r\n>here in the UK it\u2019s still illegal
    to suggest sex with your sister, your daughters OR your dog whether it\u2019s
    true...\r\nIf that is true of a private diary, (and you assume he wanted people
    to read it), no wonder most of the English have left.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-21 11:03:48'
- author:
    name: onemandub
  body: "Hopefully David this draws a close to a conversation that lost its way far
    too quickly.\r\n\r\nAs part explanation to yourself and NOT to the fool who's
    raping bats in his spare time - \r\n\r\nThe last job prior to the family show
    I was working on was in fact for a charity completely geared towards victims of
    child abuse. I did it for free from the word go. As did the producers and directors.
    These are not fun to work on at all and given the spiraling increase in child
    abuse cases and the a fact that when working on television news (something i did
    for 14 years as graphic operator/designer) you are hit with facts and information
    that simply cannot be broadcast. Appalling tales of cruelty and misery. I point
    blank refuse to accept the behaviour of paedophile trash irrespective of their
    abilities elsewhere. That comment applies across the board and is NOT aimed at
    Eric Gill.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-21 13:21:15'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "On the relation of a person's sins and failings to their work, I think the
    answers are complicated, and have to be taken on a case by case, and even work
    by work basis. In the case of Gill, I think his type work is fine, honest work,
    and not much affected by his reprehensible side. \r\n\r\nGill's figural art is
    a different story. Though otherwise excellent I find it a bit repellent, and think
    it is influenced by his warped personality. \r\n\r\nOthers where the personal
    shortcoming influence the work include Heidegger, where his philosophy gives permission
    to fanaticism, in his case Nazism. Also for me it includes Woody Allen, who has
    now I think done at least three movies where people get away with murder, and
    it is condoned by the viewpoint of the movie. "
  created: '2009-05-21 14:38:29'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: '"Bat Raper" would be an interesting name for a font. '
  created: '2009-05-21 14:58:01'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>In the case of Gill, I think his type work is fine, honest work, and
    not much affected by his reprehensible side.</em>\r\n\r\nDo you mean \"not much,\"
    or \"not at all\"? And if the former, what might the implied \"little bit\" be?"
  created: '2009-05-21 15:36:43'
- author:
    name: onemandub
  body: "\u201CBat Raper\u201D would be an interesting name for a font.\r\n\r\nWould
    that be \"Bat Raper\" Bold - Normal or Abnormal?\r\n\r\nI'd check over at Dafont
    now because the name'll have\r\nbeen used already along with;\r\n\r\n\"I stole
    this from Fontworks via ISOHUNT and altered it's name only\" Ultra..."
  created: '2009-05-21 18:24:02'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I remember John Hudson writing on typophile that Gill said he liked to shape
    his "droopy" D''s that way because they reminded him of the shape of a girl''s
    bottom. But I regard that as pretty normal eccentricity. His figural stuff can
    be creepy. '
  created: '2009-05-21 18:29:18'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>By \u201Cthe stories\u201D, John, do you mean the stories of alleged
    abuse, or the usually run-of-the-mill man talk?</em>\r\n\r\nI mean the revelations
    in the MacCarthy book, which I'm not inclined to catalogue or attempt to calssify
    in terms of \u2018alleged abuse\u2019 vs. \u2018man talk\u2019. The less I have
    to think about them, the better. So far as I am aware, no one in the family has
    ever denied any of the revelations.\r\n\r\nThat's my last post on this topic."
  created: '2009-05-21 18:34:28'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "> I point blank refuse to accept the behaviour of paedophile trash irrespective
    of their abilities elsewhere. \r\n\r\nYou can do and say anything you want about
    the convicted.\r\nI agree that baby-bat-raping type designers should be avoided.
    \r\nI wonder what effect the war had on Gill. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-05-21 18:39:49'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: BTW we've [[http://typophile.com/node/30280|been here before]].
  created: '2009-05-21 19:08:31'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: "<em>I wonder what effect the war had on Gill.</em>\r\n\r\nGill was a conscientious
    objector. Though I suspect pacifists as a group are no more likely to commit sex
    crimes than their more belligerent brethren. "
  created: '2009-05-21 21:52:15'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Gill was a conscientious objector.  \r\nGill is claimed to have believed
    a just war to be possible and was neither pacifist or CO by all accounts I am
    aware of.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-21 23:22:35'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: "<em>Gill . . . was neither pacifist or CO</em>\r\n\r\nMy mistake, I was thinking
    of Stanley Morison. If you've seen one eccentric early 20th-Century British book-arts
    celebrity who converted to Catholicism, you've seen them all."
  created: '2009-05-21 23:49:48'
- author:
    name: onemandub
  body: As a skilled mason, it is unlikely that Gill joined up during the 1st World
    War. Engineers and technically skilled workers regularly avoided the army as they
    were so important to the home war effort. Conscription did not take place in Great
    Britain until later in 1916 'til the end of the "Great War" in 1918/19. Conscientious
    objector or not, his abilities as an artisan would be too important to send him
    off to the Somme where he would have probably died within 24 hours along with
    60,000 others on day one. Conscientious objectors were treated terribly in the
    UK and potentially ended up in jail during both wars for refusal to fight. If
    one became an objector AFTER joining up then court martial and death sentence
    were inevitable for many young men. As for the facts of Gill, I don't have either
    of the biographies to hand to check on this but i dare say one of you does.
  created: '2009-05-21 23:53:43'
- author:
    name: onemandub
  body: "\"In 1913 he became a convert to Roman Catholicism and was commissioned to
    make the Stations of the Cross at Westminster Cathedral, fourteen relief carvings
    which he carried out in 1914-18\"\r\n\r\nCommissioned clergy work would keep anyone
    out of the war whether they wanted to fight or not. In this case, Eric Gill was
    a lucky man. Years later of course these were the very carvings Catholic mothers
    demanded removal of following the MacCarthy biography. They remain there today."
  created: '2009-05-22 00:19:46'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Hi Jonathan\r\n\r\n(IMHO the desecration and removal of many of Jacob Epstein's
    public sculptures in England far outweighs any controversy about Eric Gill's work
    in this field).\r\n\r\nI seem to remember that someone (was it Barry Deck?) in
    the early '90s created a typeface called <em>Canicopolous Script</em> in response
    to the information in Fiona McCarthy's book \u2013 which at least was a creative
    response to the issue.\r\n\r\nSaying 'I won't use his typefaces' \u2013 when a
    customised Gill Sans Bold <em>is</em> the corporate typeface of the BBC \u2013
    is akin to cutting off your nose to spite your face, assuming you plan to continue
    working in broadcast graphics in the UK. \r\n\r\nThe title of your post is a misnomer;
    Gill may have been perfectly indecent in his personal life, but his contribution
    to 'modern day type usage' is indisputable, particularly in his serif designs
    and his writing. \r\n\r\nThere are better arguments for shunning Gill Sans <a
    href=\"http://www.typotheque.com/articles/re-evaluation_of_gill_sans\">here in
    my article</a> \u2013 which is just about the typography, not about the man.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-22 06:03:53'
- author:
    name: Janic
  body: I try to avoid anything by American designers because of the crimes by George
    W. Bush
  created: '2009-05-22 17:41:15'
- author:
    name: onemandub
  body: "Having already worked in broadcast TV here in the UK for nearly 18 years
    including various commissioned jobs for the BBC & BBC Alba i suspect i'm not planning
    departure anytime soon.\r\n\r\nAs for me cutting ANY part of myself off to spite
    matters; i'll be sticking to the decision to avoid any Gill typefaces unless they're
    completely necessary. Note the point i made about working for child abuse charity
    ads - you DON'T use Gill for those anymore do you?\r\n\r\nJacob Epstein wasn't
    hiding or flashing himself in some small English village throughout his condemned
    career. He sadly fell into disrepute due to the age and areas he worked within
    and because he was Jewish during a period of real anti-semitism here in the UK.
    Slightly at odds with the arguements relating\r\nto Eric Gill.\r\n\r\nAll of that
    aside i appreciate the tone and intelligence of your response and in particular
    the link to your article which says alot about Johnston's contribution to a font
    best known as Gill's.\r\n\r\nMany thanks."
  created: '2009-05-22 18:01:21'
- author:
    name: sihep
    picture: 112339
  body: "I have to admit I completely understand Jonathan not wanting to use Gill\u2019s
    typefaces after finding out that he took \u2018man\u2019s best friend\u2019 a
    bit too literally. The singer of one of France\u2019s best-known rock groups,
    Noir D\xE9sir, drunkenly beat his girlfriend to death a few years ago and I haven\u2019t
    really wanted to listen to their music since.  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-22 20:14:04'
- author:
    name: onemandub
  body: '"Des Visages des Figures" (musically speaking) faded slightly at this end
    too.'
  created: '2009-05-22 20:48:39'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: "<em>it\u2019s over 25 years since i\u2019ve poured over Penthouse</em>\r\n\r\nSpeaking
    of deviance, could you identify the fluid that you poured over <em>Penthouse</em>?
    Or is [[http://www.dailywritingtips.com/poring-over-pore-and-pour/|\"pore\" (to
    examine closely)]] one of those words that has a <strong>u</strong> in the UK
    but not in the US?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-22 20:54:47'
- author:
    name: onemandub
  body: "A multitude of things. Initially alarm and panic - rapidly followed by hours
    of study...\r\n\r\nWhen you're sat in front of 3 screens at once - 2 laptops and
    one tower, running Cinema 4D Office/Firefox and Ilustrator/Photoshop through 17
    hours that were meant to be a holiday - well anything's possible. Even crude humour.\r\n\r\nApologies
    for the \"poured/pore\" one Victor."
  created: '2009-05-22 21:26:28'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: I used Gill Sans today for the first time in ages because of this post.
  created: '2009-05-22 21:49:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Jonathan, your obsession with the sex life of Eric Gill could be construed
    as somewhat prurient.\r\n\r\nYou should be careful your clients don't find out
    about this personality trait of yours, or they may decide that doing business
    with you exceeds the bounds of decency."
  created: '2009-05-24 03:51:11'
- author:
    name: onemandub
  body: I'd check what i actually wrote and responded with before making such statements
    like that.
  created: '2009-05-24 08:44:46'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "I learned yesterday that the Obama 08 campaign changed Gill Sans and Perpetua
    for Gotham and Requiem for the same reasons mentioned by \xBBNew Order\xAB. Well,
    not exactly the same reasons, but because somebody might use Gill\u2019s story
    to discredit the presidential candidate."
  created: '2009-05-24 12:40:57'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Hopefully David this draws a close to a conversation that lost its way far
    too quickly...\r\n\r\nApparently not. \r\n\r\n>i\u2019ll be sticking to the decision
    to avoid any Gill typefaces unless they\u2019re completely necessary...\r\n\r\nSo
    you will compromise your principles to support parental abuse by their children?\r\n\r\n>When
    you\u2019re sat in front of 3 screens at once... well anything\u2019s possible.\r\n\r\nYou
    think you have tough work!? LOL. \r\nI wonder what effect the war had on Gill.
    \r\nYou might have to think hard, so be careful. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-05-24 13:06:08'
- author:
    name: mehallo
    picture: 109684
  body: "It it means anything, after taking my history class, one of my students now
    refers to Gill as\r\n\r\nPuppyfuck Sans\r\n\r\nI think if it's just labeled like
    that on the font menu, this may solve a lot of moral dilemmas when picking type.\r\n\r\nJust
    sayin.\r\n\r\n\r\nsteve mehallo\r\nmehallo.com  tinyurl.com/mehallofonts"
  created: '2009-05-25 03:09:56'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'On the ethical issue, I do think it makes a difference whether the author
    of a work is dead. If alive and reprehensible, then it it makes sense to boycott
    his or her work. If dead, especially long dead, I don''t think there is the same
    imperative. '
  created: '2009-05-25 03:14:55'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "David Bowie once said that he believed in Fascism and that Adolf Hitler was
    the first Rock star.\r\nEric Clapton said they should send all black people away
    from UK before it becomes a black colony. \r\nRob Lowe had trouble with justice
    for having (videotaped) sex with a 16 year old.\r\nWoody Allen left his wife in
    order to live with their adopted daughter.\r\nRoman Polanski... Well you know
    the story (who doesn't).\r\nJohn Wayne was one of the most black people hater
    ever.\r\nMel Gibson said all the wars in the world had to be blamed on jewish
    people.\r\nSalvador Dali was a passionate admirer of Fascism.\r\nHerge (the creator
    of Tintin) was a little too close to the nazis during the war.\r\netc etc etc.\r\n\r\nShould
    we stop listening to their records, admiring their paintings, watching their movies,
    reading their books? Or should we judge their works for what they are, and not
    for who their authors were?\r\n\r\nYou tell me.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2009-05-25 10:01:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I\u2019d check what i actually wrote and responded with before making
    such statements like that.</em>\r\n\r\nI did, but I'm afraid you missed the irony.\r\nLet
    me spell it out:\r\nYou started this thread, and admitted, \"I rapidly recalled
    the somewhat shocking revelations...\"\r\nDon't you think that kinky tabloid muck-raking
    is a mite unprofessional?\r\nYou're reworking another's design, and casting aspersions
    on his/her type choice with the Old Puppyfucker gambit.\r\nAnd you have the nerve
    to talk about decency?\r\nSo my advice is, don't raise this issue with your client
    as it might reflect poorly on you.\r\nThere are other reasons not to use Gill
    Sans, if you want to rationalize your type preference.\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-25 10:54:07'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Men, relax!\r\n\r\nDavid R - strange that you include Mel Gibson, his crimes
    are not paired with artistic offerings!"
  created: '2009-05-25 12:22:40'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "1985: I do like Mel Gibson the actor and director, but you have the right
    not to. \r\n\r\nIn fact, I do like all the people I mentionned in my post. And
    I like a lot Eric Gill's typefaces and engravings (some of which I own). I recently
    published a book in France about typography, one chapter is dedicated to Gill
    Sans and contains a biography of Gill, in which I state very clearly his sexual
    misconduct. Though, I also say that his typefaces are very beautiful.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2009-05-25 15:17:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "David R, I don't think we should say the person's conduct is always irrelevant,
    or always relevant. \r\n\r\nAs I said, whether the person is dead or living makes
    a difference, and also the extent to which his or her art is tainted by their
    reprehensible conduct. \r\n\r\nAlso some of your 'facts' are not correct. Woody
    Allen--whose movies I refuse to see--was never married to Mia Farrow. John Wayne,
    whom I never liked as an actor, was not the \"biggest black people hater ever.\"
    In a Playboy interview of 1971 he made some stupid and wrong comments expressing
    annoyance with black activists, but they are hardly the stuff of virulent racism. "
  created: '2009-05-25 15:52:25'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "<em>Woody Allen\u2014whose movies I refuse to see</em> ... because he constantly
    uses Windsor Elongated for his titles, I suppose."
  created: '2009-05-25 16:07:49'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "New Order, are you aware how many negative connotations are thrown up by
    your own account name?\r\nI assume you are referring to the band?\r\n\r\nNew Order,
    Wikipedia:\r\n\r\nRob Gretton, the band's manager for over twenty years, is credited
    for having found the name \"New Order\" in an article in The Guardian entitled
    \"The People's New Order of Kampuchea\".[citation needed] The band adopted this
    name, despite its previous use for ex-Stooge Ron Asheton's band The New Order.
    As the term \"New Order\" was featured in Hitler's Mein Kampf as \"the new order
    of the Third Reich\" and the name Joy Division originated from the prostitution
    wing of a Nazi concentration camp mentioned in the 1955 novel The House of Dolls,
    critics attempted to cite fascist undertones."
  created: '2009-05-25 20:14:37'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "PS William, you avoid Woody but can recall a Playboy article from 1971!\r\n\r\n(Come
    on Dez, get involved!)"
  created: '2009-05-25 20:27:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">can recall a Playboy article from 1971!\r\n\r\nThat's my know-it-all friend
    Mr. Google. All the stuff on the internet attacking John Wayne refer to it, and
    some quote it. "
  created: '2009-05-25 20:56:53'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: You use Google?! Are you aware of the smut they index?
  created: '2009-05-25 22:49:11'
- author:
    name: onemandub
  body: "New Order as in the band. Yes. Who I've followed - literally - for 25 years.
    Including a Stateside tour in 1989 where i saw kids of all colours enjoy themselves.
    The group did left wing miners strike & AIDS benefits during the 80's. Zero level
    of fascism i can assure you. As for Wikipedia. I'd trust that level of information
    as far as i could throw it. The accusation of the bands \"fascist\" leanings stemmed
    from a UK music journalist called Steven Wells a very long time ago..incorrectly.
    Rob Gretton spotted the newspaper headline AFTER Bernard Sumner had proposed the
    bands new name. Right wing assholes were thrown out of several Joy Division concerts
    in \"79 & '80. No citation needed.\r\n\r\nAs for \"kinky tabloid muck-raking\".
    I didn't quote Gill's own words on the subject but i'm sure i could if i genuinely
    wanted to. They are available."
  created: '2009-05-25 23:24:33'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Thanks for addressing my question.\r\n\r\nI'm a New Order and Joy Division
    fan too so you needn't convince me.\r\n(Don't tell me I'm too young!)\r\n\r\nMy
    point was not that either band was/is fascist but that they were comfortable enough
    to use names that were dubious in origin.\r\nYou are comfortable with that too
    it seems, so why not use Gill?\r\n\r\nWikipedia pulls through on the basics!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-25 23:51:25'
- author:
    name: Pablo R
    picture: 116225
  body: "So to have artistic merit one has to fall short of a saint? \r\n\r\nPlease,
    can the last one out turn off the light?"
  created: '2009-05-25 23:59:05'
- author:
    name: onemandub
  body: "1985 - i'm delighted to hear that you're a New Order/Joy Division fan. I
    kind of assumed there was something there based on your post relating to my fad
    choice of monicker. Truth is that the majority of my early interest in design
    came from Factory Records. There were multiple blacks and jews involved in Factory
    so any notion that Joy division or New Order had right wing thoughts was unlikely.
    Having said that - Bernard Sumner's own cover illustration for Joy Division's
    first single \"An Ideal For Living\" was a poor choice by any standards. If i
    had ever thought they were a set of fascist idiots then i wouldn't have gone to
    see them 50+ times since '84.\r\n\r\nI'm sure Wikipedia DOES pull through now
    and again.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-26 00:34:52'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Jonathan, to someone of my age and background, the \u2018New Order\u2019
    nickname with its Nazi connotations is more offensive than the facts of Gill's
    private life. What some people here are pointing out is that while you show sensitivity
    about the use of Gill, your choice of a \u2018in your face\u2019 moniker does
    not show same. It is incongruous and invites a suspicion that you might just want
    to stir the pot."
  created: '2009-05-26 01:11:21'
- author:
    name: onemandub
  body: New Order is the name of a band. Eric Gill was a self professed, incestuous
    child abuser. A wee bit of a difference that one. As for your suggestion that
    i'm some form of troll - forget it. If however, the name i have lifted from that
    band offends anyone here i shall happily change it.
  created: '2009-05-26 01:25:23'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: The keystone of religious truths is that they are revealed, rather than observed
    (empirical), or tautologous (philosophical). Since they are revealed, they brook
    no counterargument. I'd say that's about where you seem to be; allowing no counterargument
    essentially ends a discussion.
  created: '2009-05-26 01:30:29'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "@New Order\r\n\r\nRemarkable that you have seen Joy Division (and or New
    Order) perform that many times. I might be jealous, but then, perhaps it is fitting
    enough not to have seen them and felt connected anyway. Don't change your name,
    balance the argument by using Gill!\r\n\r\nNo, I jest, I respect your decision.
    I was just trying to point out that you will always be drawn into some kind of
    scandal by the very things that surround you, your shoes, your car, etc.\r\n\r\nPS
    You can't troll your own post I don't think, it breaks the internet.\r\n\r\n@Paragraph\r\n\r\nRe
    the name New Order:\r\nThe difference between connotation and denotation.\r\nIt's
    about the free-play of signs and signifiers!\r\n(Isn't that what Steve Coogan
    shouts?)"
  created: '2009-05-26 02:15:28'
- author:
    name: onemandub
  body: "I wish i'd seen Joy Division - only New Order\r\n\r\n\"...signs & signifiers...\"\r\n\r\nCoogan
    to Rob Brydon playing an ill advised Sounds/NME journalist (of whom there were
    plenty)\r\n\r\nIf the use of the name bothers anyone i'll sort it.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-26 07:35:19'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "OK then, don't use Gill Sans, don't buy Benetton clothes, don't watch BBC,
    don't buy Penguin books, don't use the subway when you go to London, honestly,
    who cares :-)\r\n\r\n<mode typography off>\r\n\r\nAs of John Wayne, yes, I am
    talking about the Playboy Interview. Here is the exact extract I was referring
    to:\r\n\r\n\"I believe in white supremacy until blacks are educated to a point
    of responsibility. I don't believe in giving authority and positions of leadership
    and judgment to irresponsible people.... The academic community has developed
    certain tests that determine whether the blacks are sufficiently equipped scholastically....
    I don't feel guilty about the fact that five or ten generations ago these people
    were slaves. Now I'm not condoning slavery. It's just a fact of life, like the
    kid who gets infantile paralysis and can't play football like the rest of us.\"\r\n\r\nYou
    might want to call that \"stupid and wrong comments\". It's up to you. Let's say,
    I disagree. These words could very well come as well from the mouth of any educated
    neo-nazi or member of the KKK. Still, I like to watch movies with the Dude. And
    I also enjoy watching movies with Charlton Heston. And so on. And, oh yes, Woody
    Allen wasn't married to Mia Farrow, but he lived with her for 12 years - I guess
    that counts. \r\n\r\n<mode typography on>\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2009-05-26 13:49:28'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: Why not use the <em>Tube</em>?
  created: '2009-05-26 14:33:10'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Oh by the way, check this one, you'll love it:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/newsletters/cc/20090401.html\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2009-05-26 14:39:10'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "Mehallo:\r\n\r\nI'm curious about your statement \"If [I corrected this]
    it means anything, after taking my history class, one of my students now refers
    to Gill as Puppyfuck Sans.\"\r\n\r\nHow much \"pushing\" did you do that might
    have lead students to discover these aspects of Gill's life? Did you assign the
    McCarthy bio and let it go at that? Or did you mention that there may be some
    seamy parts?\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2009-05-26 18:19:47'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "David R.: \r\n\r\nI'm not against using Gill's typefaces. He's long dead,
    and the typefaces are outstanding and historically important. For must uses, I
    wouldn't see any ethical problem, though for some it might be insensitive. \r\n\r\nAs
    I said, for me, it's a difficult issue, and sometimes I would boycott an artist's
    work on those grounds, and other times not. \r\n\r\nDo you think that it is a
    simple issue: the creator's morals are always irrelevant to how we should treat
    his or her work?"
  created: '2009-05-26 18:32:54'
- author:
    name: aaronbell
    picture: 117132
  body: "It is a difficult issue. For the vast majority of the audience, no one will
    care who Gill was or what he did, they only really consider the typeface. At the
    same time, if a company spent a great deal of money on a new identity that included
    one of his faces, only to find out later more about him, I could potentially see
    an issue arising. So, for folks who don't want to have the possibility of that
    association or feel other typefaces are more appropriate / stronger choices, there
    are plenty of others available and well done alternatives (that has been discussed
    elsewhere on typophile) that can be used instead. \r\n\r\nAlso, @New Order: \"As
    a skilled mason, it is unlikely that Gill joined up during the 1st World War.
    Engineers and technically skilled workers regularly avoided the army as they were
    so important to the home war effort.\"\r\n\r\nI just finished the chapter on Gill
    in The Secret History of Type and he did indeed end up in the army (he had to
    have his beloved beard shaved off) but he wasn't sent to war because it ended
    while he was still in boot camp, so he lost his symbol of masculinity for nothing."
  created: '2009-05-26 20:05:52'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Well, I still consider that avoiding using a typeface because its creator
    was a wacko is stupid. This being said, if true, I totally understand that Obama's
    advisors decided not to use Gill Sans because of the potential risk of being attacked
    on theses issues by the republican: this is USA. Enough said. \r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2009-05-27 08:29:18'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"if true, I totally understand that Obama\u2019s advisors decided
    not to use Gill Sans because of the potential risk of being attacked on theses
    issues by the republican\"</cite>\r\nI assume that it is true; at least that's
    how Sol Sender, the creator of Obama's campaign logo, told the story at TYPO Berlin.
    I was rather surprised that he was so frank about this being the reason; one could
    certainly have made a quite convincing point for the replacement of Gill Sans
    with Gotham via the English<>American heritage/culture argument, without having
    to discuss sexual practices involving dogs. "
  created: '2009-05-27 09:02:46'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "<cite>one could certainly have made a quite convincing point for the replacement
    of Gill Sans with Gotham via the English<>American heritage/culture argument,
    without having to discuss sexual practices involving dogs.</cite>\r\n\r\nYeah,
    but what about the personal lives of H&J... We don\u2019t have enough info regarding
    Jonathan and Tobias to compute a moral judgement. And is living in NYC a plus
    or a minus (it must be the latter for designers living in the Midwest, right?)?\r\n\r\nI
    am SO confused about this that the only typeface I dare to use now is the one
    based on the handwriting of my youngest kid, whose morals are beyond questioning
    of course (... or DID he cheat in kindergarten as his mother told me when the
    alimony was outstanding...?).\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-05-27 09:16:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">this is USA. Enough said. \r\n\r\nOh those Americans! The French are so
    much better. No right wing there, and not an ounce of prejudice. \r\n\r\nAnd the
    Americans were so stupid to overwhelmingly elect Obama, what a bunch of cretins. "
  created: '2009-05-27 17:50:26'
- author:
    name: onemandub
  body: 'Regarding Gill''s involvement or lack thereof in WWI. "Bootcamp" for a British
    "Tommy" waa a very short experience before heading to war so assuming Gill''s
    work on Stations of the Cross at Westminster ended in 1918 as documented with
    the war itself ending on the 11th of November 1918 (at 11a.m. that morning) he
    must have arrived in the army very late that year to have missed the war entirely.
    Was he a conscript or a volunteer? As for "I wonder what effect the war had on
    Gill." - Answer: he had a shave.'
  created: '2009-05-27 18:47:23'
- author:
    name: aaronbell
    picture: 117132
  body: I'm sure the shave was very traumatic for him. And wearing pants too. Poor
    guy. Enduring so much.
  created: '2009-05-27 18:55:52'
- author:
    name: onemandub
  body: "Apologies.\r\n\r\nI hadn't considered the \"pants\" issue at all. Must have
    been a nightmare.\r\n\r\nThank you Mr Bell."
  created: '2009-05-27 19:15:04'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "I bet this really irks you too...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/TYP_banner_Events_3508.png]"
  created: '2009-05-28 05:20:14'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "\"Yeah, but what about the personal lives of H&J... We don\u2019t have enough
    info regarding Jonathan and Tobias to compute a moral judgement\" > very well
    put indeed.\r\n\r\nWilliam: I lived 10 years in NYC. It's still my favorite city
    in the world, and I am going there at least once a year. I am taking care of the
    american film festival of Deauville since 10 years. most of my best friends and
    memories are american. as of france, I left it a long time ago, I lived in Tokyo
    and now in Istanbul, since 5 years. I despise Sarkozy, and most of the french
    politicians altogether, as well as their pathetically poor social handling. the
    american overwhelmingly elected Obama, yes... after electing GWB *twice*, in case
    you forgot. in USA, republican (and democrat, actually) are very fond of digging
    some really old dirty crap in order to bury a candidate for presidency, and this
    is a fact you can't ignore as well. \r\n\r\ndon't come and judge me on 3 sentences
    in a forum, you don't know me, and I guess you will never do.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2009-05-28 08:21:58'
- author:
    name: CameronWilliams
    picture: 117391
  body: "Gill was, to say the least, a conflicted man, as are we all. \r\n\r\nOn the
    positive side are his typeface designs, and, so far unmentioned here, the reforms
    embodied by Vatican II; reforms that were in large part shaped by Gill's writings
    (though advocates of the Tridentine mass would place this on the negative side).\r\n\r\nSo,
    to use Gill's faces or not? It depends upon the text and the format only, not
    on Gill's life and acts. Should we eschew the use of all typefaces, serif and
    sans, used by the Nazis because of the enormity of their crimes?"
  created: '2009-05-28 13:19:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">don\u2019t come and judge me\r\n\r\nI was judging not you, but what you
    wrote. You dismissed a whole people with contempt. Yes, the US reelected George
    W. Bush--whether they elected him the first time is debatable--and they also elected
    Barak Obama. To focus only on one side is to miss the complexity and reality of
    America for the sake of a cheap shot.   \r\n\r\nWhat I object to in both your
    and Jonathan S's comments on Gill is that they are simplistic on an issue that
    is complex and serious. And the issue here is not simple \"whackiness\", but systematically
    vicious and harmful actions, and bad moral character. \r\n\r\nI think that if
    we are to be responsible moral actors, we  should not be be indifferent to the
    morals of those producing and selling us products. Now the world is full of villains
    and heroes, and both are involved in producing many products. So most of the time
    we don't know enough to make any judgment, and even if we did know enough we probably
    couldn't resolve the issue clearly. The many industrial products produced in bad
    labor conditions in poor countries is one example of such a very entangled issue.
    But when it comes to cultural products that are mainly the creation of one person,
    we sometimes do know more. And I think we have a responsibility to act on that
    knowledge.\r\n\r\nThe difficult case is when the artist is great, and the sin
    is also great. This is the case with Gill, and also the most widely discussed
    example, that of Richard Wagner. Here there is no doubt that he was a virulent
    anti-Semite who influenced Hitler and Nazism. But it is also true that he was
    an artist of great talent. How much his evil side spoils his artistic creations
    continues to be hotly debated. [[http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/entertainment/1311347.stm|Daniel
    Berenboim caused a row in Israel when he broke the 50 year informal boycott of
    Wagner's music.]]\r\n\r\nThe complexity of the issue is shown by the fact that
    even Barenboim, who has championed performing Wagner's works, does not think it
    appropriate to perform them in every venue and occasion. \r\n\r\nI don't pretended
    to have any simple guidelines on this, but I think the idea that in some situations
    a work might be appropriate, and others not is a pretty good concept. And I do
    think Gotham was a lot better choice for Obama's campaign than Gill, for more
    than one reason, including both the all-American look of Gotham and Gill's personal
    failings. \r\n\r\n   \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-28 16:50:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Gotham was the better choice whatever is thought of Gill. It is more reflective
    of our time, an American designed face and a damn good one. I also feel it works
    better as a system with weights that fit better as a family.\r\nThe Republican
    ooze slingers (who swim with the feces) would surely have attacked Obama using
    the \"Gill card\". Mainstream Republicans would have not been so tasteless though.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-05-28 17:22:39'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Chris, you just missed a chance to use \xE6 :)"
  created: '2009-05-29 08:11:36'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "I won't go deeper into the fuss, but I wanted to say that I also think Gotham
    is a perfect choice for Obama.\r\n\r\nWilliam, when you say \"I wasn't judging
    you\", I guess you were referring to \"the french are so much better\"? That was
    classy.\r\n\r\nOh and before I forget, the french magazine \"Le Monde Diplomatique\"
    is using Joanna as its main type, both for titles and text, and it's gorgeous.
    This typeface is really beautiful. \r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2009-05-29 08:20:06'
- author:
    name: mehallo
    picture: 109684
  body: "Will:\r\n\r\nI've actually set up my history class to be two-fold: I present
    the work and then present as much as I can dig up about the person, humanizing
    what they've done as best I can.\r\n\r\nI typically present the Gill info - as
    I do Griffo, and even the legend of Gutenberg being shut out of his shop - as
    'here's what I know, you draw your own conclusions.' (and frankly, I think Gutenberg
    should be played by Donald Sutherland in the movie - so that is bias on my part)\r\n\r\nI
    also like to say the past is the past, history is the written account of it. And
    by that, there's no way to really know what REALLY happened. All we have is what's
    been written down. Good or bad, true or not.\r\n\r\nGill is interesting because
    I showcase his work, and then after, I talk about what is known about him as a
    person; mentioning his dedication to his religion and various other activities;
    it's all designed to let the students draw their own conclusions. \r\n\r\nSome
    love his types, some are appalled, and some actually think it's cool there's a
    real freak out there. (!)\r\n\r\nBut one can't forget, behind every single typeface
    or design piece there is a person (or persons) - flawed or otherwise - that have
    done something that resonates with us today. \r\n\r\nWhich is why this page is
    so full of posts.\r\n\r\nsteve mehallo\r\ntinyurl.com/mehallofonts\r\nmehallo.com"
  created: '2009-05-29 09:43:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"you just missed a chance to use \xE6 :)\"\r\n\r\nSorry, Jan,\r\n\r\nI guess
    I was trying to be serious for a change:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-05-29 15:32:46'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "No w\u0153rries."
  created: '2009-05-30 00:54:25'
- author:
    name: mehallo
    picture: 109684
  body: "One more snarky comment:\r\n\r\nIntroducing: Eric Gill, the wine http://mehallo.com/blog/archives/620\r\n\r\nsteve
    mehallo\r\nhttp://tinyurl.com/mehallofonts\r\nhttp://mehallo.com/blog"
  created: '2009-07-29 06:04:25'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Isn\u2019t the \u201Cpathetic stretch[ing]\u201D a more pressing issue?\r\n\r\n\u2014
    \ \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-07-29 22:37:07'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "If you feel strongly please stop studying art history or the history of design.
    It's full of deviates.\r\n\r\nFor that matter you might want to stop posting on
    the internet. You just never know\u2026\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2009-07-30 03:39:58'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "i have no puppy, but some people here have said\r\nthat they will refuse
    to use my software because\r\ni do not use capital letters.  i live with the pain...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-30 09:06:37'
- author:
    name: leisha-17
  body: "hi i know there hasnt been posts on this in quite a while, but i have to
    do a paper on gill as part of my contempary art discourse module in college...
    just wondering would anyone recommend any sites/books on gill that would contain
    information of his diaries? \r\n\r\nthanks, leisha"
  created: '2011-03-23 21:13:24'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: See the first post.
  created: '2011-03-23 21:39:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I guess this really is the Internet.
  created: '2011-03-30 04:26:17'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Long before I heard of Eric Gill's crimes, while I liked Perpetua, I disliked
    Gill Sans, as I've noted. But I just realized that I didn't always like Gill Sans.
    I only disliked one particular way in which I often saw it used - and when used
    in that fashion, I found it ugly, and excessively and obtrusively \"British\",
    and so I took note of the typeface in that connection.\r\n\r\nIt was when it was
    used for text in ALL CAPS. And <em>few</em> typefaces survive that treatment well
    in any case.\r\n\r\n@John Hudson:\r\n<cite>And I wonder, what is the purpose of
    calling to mind Gill's sins? What do you do with these sins once you have acknowledged
    them? You still have to judge the work on its own merits.</cite>\r\n\r\nTo begin
    to answer that question, first one has to address just <strong>how seriously</strong>
    his crimes are to be regarded.\r\n\r\nIn my opinion, because sexual assault often
    causes lifelong psychological devastation to its victims, I believe it should
    be regarded as <em>a form of torture</em>, or <em>a crime against humanity</em>.\r\n\r\nThe
    merits of Gill Sans or Perpetua, such as they are, are not so absolutely stellar
    that I think anyone would be using them if they were Eichmann Sans or Hitler Roman.\r\n\r\nHitler
    was a failed architect, and he did produce a few paintings, after all, so why
    couldn't he have been a type designer?\r\n\r\nSo this isn't a question of digging
    around in dirty laundry, or not using a typeface because its designer ran out
    on some unpaid debts, or was once accused of murder under ambiguous circumstances.
    At least, it isn't <em>if</em> one agrees that sexual assault is a crime we should
    take <strong>very seriously indeed</strong>.\r\n\r\n@William Berkson:\r\n<cite>Yes,
    the US reelected George W. Bush--whether they elected him the first time is debatable--and
    they also elected Barak Obama. To focus only on one side is to miss the complexity
    and reality of America for the sake of a cheap shot.</cite>\r\n\r\nI take it you
    are replying to someone who slammed Americans for electing G. W. Bush.\r\n\r\nI
    would have my own reasons for not approving such a comment. Even so, it's hard
    for me to give the American people full credit for voting in Barack H. Obama.\r\n\r\nNot
    because I don't <em>like</em> the American people. Just because of two facts.\r\n\r\nNumber
    1: The stock market crashes. News reports note the possibility that this could
    lead to an economic catastrophe on the order of the Great Depression. And, looking
    at Iceland, Greece, and Portugal, it doesn't seem they were far wrong.\r\n\r\nWhat
    did John McCain do?\r\n\r\nHe told the American people that the economy was \"fundamentally
    sound\"... basically, <em>channeling Herbert Hoover</em>. He also obstructed the
    efforts of his President, G. W. Bush, to quickly inject money into the economy
    to prevent a disaster until his home state got some extra gravy.\r\n\r\nNumber
    2: Exit polls and other data after the election showed that a majority of America's
    white and non-Hispanic voters voted for McCain.\r\n\r\nIf I'm going to praise
    or damn the American people, it is likely to be white Americans I would be talking
    about - because the Americans belonging to minority groups will often see things
    differently than the typical ordinary American. They live in a different situation,
    with different challenges.\r\n\r\nIf I were so inclined, therefore, to praise
    Americans for their open-mindedness in electing Obama President... I'd have a
    problem, given that the Americans I'd be talking about actually mostly voted for
    the other fellow - <em>after</em> he just about (despite having a strong platform
    on the important issue of fighting terrorism) did the next best thing to conceding
    the election!\r\n\r\nBecause while hunting down al-Qaeda is an important issue
    (and Obama didn't act precipitately and pull the U.S. out of Iraq in such a way
    as to cause chaos and allow the terrorist forces to take control there, as might
    have been feared during the election campaign) a much more important and immediate
    issue to Americans, just like everyone else, is \"Will I lose my job\"?\r\n\r\nMcCain
    throws the election, and white Americans would still have voted him in, just by
    a thin margin?\r\n\r\nI think Americans are nice people, but they're not really
    ready yet for a black President. Obama apparently got elected because of a \"perfect
    storm\", and no matter how great a job he does, I doubt if he will get a second
    term. Unless the Republicans pick a total idiot to run against him.\r\n\r\nUnfortunately,
    it looks like that's exactly what they're planning to do... and she might still
    win."
  created: '2011-03-30 04:30:22'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: I know that noting that the American people may not deserve "full credit"
    for electing Obama is off-topic. I don't want to derail the thread, but I did
    think that something was said that needed a reply.
  created: '2011-03-30 04:32:38'
- author:
    name: CreeDo
  body: "The only offtopic thing worth reading in this thread:\r\n\r\n<em>\"Bat Raper\"
    would be an interesting name for a font.</em>\r\n\r\nIn other news, I boycott
    Chick-Fil-A, and every day I drive by wishing I could have some. They've lost
    at least 500 bucks from me already."
  created: '2011-03-30 05:11:53'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: '<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F6HLYHT8lEY">Necroposting in an Erik
    Gill thread is best summed up by this GWAR video.</a> '
  created: '2011-03-30 05:19:28'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > but I did think that something was said that needed a reply.</cite>\r\n\r\n22
    months later? Really?\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-30 12:55:35'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: I just noticed the topic came up in a new thread. The posts were there. I
    didn't check the <em>dates</em> on them, I just read what was <em>in</em> the
    posts.
  created: '2011-03-30 17:45:57'
date: '2009-05-19 18:26:14'
node_type: forum
title: Eric Gill - decency in modern day type usage

---
