---
author:
  name: axeltomas
body: "We're in the preparation phase of a project where we will be designing an extensive
  grammar book. As expected there will be a lot of phonetic transcriptions. Book design
  is comfortable territory but we have never done anything using a font with phonetic
  symbols.\r\n\r\nAnybody got experience with phonetic fonts? Please let us know of
  any good, complete font families with phonetic symbols."
comments:
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Check out [[International Phonetic Alphabet]] and the following discussions
    in particular:\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/15765\">Serif Fonts
    with IPA Characters for Book Work</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/4671\">Phonetic
    fonts</a>\r\n\r\nWill you be setting the phonetic symbols in the same typeface
    as the rest of the text? What sort of typeface do you plan to use for the rest
    of the text? That will help narrow things down."
  created: '2009-05-20 11:22:43'
- author:
    name: axeltomas
  body: "Thanks Jongseong for the quick and helpful post.\r\n\r\nAs said, we are in
    a very premature phase so nothing is decided but trying to answer your questions
    I'd say that the Phonetic transcriptions don't necessarily have to be in the same
    typeface as the rest of the book. As for the rest of the text we are considering
    the use of [[http://www.felicianotypefoundry.com/main/?page_id=13|MERLO]] by Mario
    Feliciano or some other good book face."
  created: '2009-05-20 11:59:18'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "A sans serif for phonetic transcription might be a good idea. I can't immediately
    think of anything that goes really well with Merlo, though. But look through the
    lists to see if you can find something. Also note that some fonts that come with
    Windows Vista like Microsoft Sans Serif and Tahoma have been extended to include
    phonetic symbols.\r\n\r\nAlternatively, it might be worth contacting M\xE1rio
    Feliciano to see if he will be open to adding phonetic symbols to Merlo.\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-20 12:25:53'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Since one of the threads listed was one I started, I might as well finish
    the tale. I could find no suitable commercial font that had all the needed characters,
    except, as noted, Times and Stone.\r\n\r\nSince Adobe allows modifications to
    their fonts by the end user for their own use, I used Minion, primarily because
    of its neutral feel, and because it does come with Greek (though you cannot simply
    use the existing Greek characters for all the IPA \"Greek\").\r\n\r\nI then made
    up the needed phonetic characters, roman and italic.\r\n\r\nWhile IPA may not
    require italic, try telling that to an editor who has been taught that all foriegn
    words must be set in italic. Many editorial decisions are religious in character,
    that is, they are reveled truths, brooking no argument. Italic is needed.\r\n\r\nIt
    does not take all that long to draw up serviceable IPA symbols -- maybe a week
    for italic and roman. Note the word \"serviceable.\" They probably wouldn't pass
    muster with a real font designer. But at text size, they worked well enough.\r\n\r\n*
    * *\r\n\r\nI have used Merlo in one book. It tends towards being too heavy, and
    I'm one of the guys who complains that most photocomp and digital fonts are too
    light. With a 10-point setting, it worked pretty well. With a larger setting,
    I doubt it -- a noted designer (Rich Hendel) tried a larger setting size and couldn't
    get it to work. That said, I will use it again, when it fits the project.\r\n\r\n*
    * *\r\n\r\nIn conclusion, I would use a font from a foundry that allows the end
    user to modify the font for their own work, and make up your own symbols, as needed."
  created: '2009-05-20 12:41:38'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "That's great advice from Charles. Depending on the scope and phonetic detail
    explored in the grammar book, you will probably need only a small number of additional
    phonetic symbols (around a dozen for Portuguese), not the entire IPA. Having the
    needed glyphs custom-made will not take too much time.\r\n\r\nAlso, many dictionaries,
    including the Longman Pronunciation Dictionary, use the convention of setting
    the symbols for sounds that may be optionally dropped in italic. So you can never
    say IPA italics are not necessary."
  created: '2009-05-20 12:49:32'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: Also it's not unheard of to have a section title or that has a minimal amount
    of IPA,, and if the style guideline has that placed in italic, then logically
    the IPA would also go in italic.  *secretly happy that his font's italic a was
    always designed to be two story making IPA italic much easier*
  created: '2009-05-20 13:01:09'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: Yea, drawing up (stealing parts) to make a two-story italic "a" is one of
    the tough ones. For the one-story Roman a, think "c" plus "iota" with a little
    adjustment, remove overlap, sidebearing adjustments, and on to the next.
  created: '2009-05-20 13:25:37'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Another option would be to identify the commercial fonts you are interested
    in and see if the designer is interested in expanding the character set for your
    needs. It may cost you a few bucks, but the results would most likely be better
    than hammering away on your own.
  created: '2009-05-20 15:21:13'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "You might take a look at <a href=\"http://junicode.sourceforge.net/\">Junicode</a>
    also. It's in the same general family as Merlo, but I have a feeling the pair
    won't actually work well in practice (Merlo for text, Junicode for phonetics),
    because the former seems much heavier than the latter.\r\n\r\nFor a Times-like
    font with IPA characters, take a look at <a href=\"http://scripts.sil.org/cms/scripts/page.php?site_id=nrsi&item_id=DoulosSILfont\">Doulos
    SIL</a>.\r\n\r\nBoth of these are free, and so actively encourage you to modify
    them for your needs. You might be able to make slight weight adjustments, for
    example, in your favorite font editor using a script.\r\n\r\nBest of luck!"
  created: '2009-05-20 17:03:26'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "The entire IPA and UPA repertoire (blocks 0250, 1D00, 1D80; all phon. char.s)\r\n*complete*
    in Regular *and* Italics:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.signographie.de/cms/front_content.php?idart=220\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-20 17:49:25'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>the results would most likely be better than hammering away on your
    own</cite>\r\n\r\nJames, I take mild offense at that remark. And the \"few bucks\"
    always seems to really be a \"few *hundred* bucks\" (\"few\" being \"more than
    three\"). \r\n\r\n@Ralph, I'd probably try Charter from SIL before Junicode. Junicode
    is far too light, and a bit too expanded for Merlo. In their current form, and
    for different reasons, both Charter and Junicode are what I would consider good
    fonts for manuscripts, but not books,\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-20 20:24:51'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: Andreas, the italic version of that font has some important problems for use
    in IPA, most especially it lacks a two-story a, and its turned version.  And it's
    missing a good number of suprasegmentals.
  created: '2009-05-20 22:17:15'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Oh, get over it Charles! Of course it is a few hundred bucks. How much is
    your time worth? So if you do it your self it has no value, but if the type designer
    does it for you it becomes a rip off?\r\n\r\nI always go back to what my friends
    in the Peace Corp used to tell me, there are only three numbers in the world:
    one, two, many!\r\n\r\nAnd just to snap your head around, we recently responded
    to a client request and did a Cyrillic upgrade for two of our fonts FOR FREE!.
    Simple because we were interested in the project.\r\n\r\nTake your mild offense
    and ..."
  created: '2009-05-21 03:30:04'
- author:
    name: gaultney
    picture: 112764
  body: "Sorry for the self-promotion, but no one has yet mentioned Charis SIL - full
    set of styles and complete phonetic coverage with a design similar to  Matthew
    Carter's Charter:\r\n\r\nhttp://scripts.sil.org/CharisSILfont\r\n\r\nGentium Basic
    and Gentium Book Basic also are complete families, although their character set
    support is only 'basic'. They still support a good range of IPA and phonetic characters,
    which may be sufficient for your needs. The Book weights, in particular, are worth
    a try, and support smart diacritic positioning via OpenType:\r\n\r\nhttp://scripts.sil.org/Gentium_basic\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-21 09:26:00'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>\u2026 it lacks a two-story a, and its turned version. And it\u2019s
    missing a good number of suprasegmentals.</cite>\r\n\r\nSorry, I don\u2019t quite
    understand. This is the first time I hear such complaint. Could you be a bit more
    descriptive?"
  created: '2009-05-21 11:35:25'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "In IPA, there are four different versions of the letter A (two forms and
    their respective rotated version).  As you know, it's standard in serif fonts
    for the lowercase a to change form between normal and italic faces.  This is a
    contrastive element in the IPA alphabet, so it requires this italic single-story
    a to be present in the regular upright face.  Just the same, in an italic font,
    the upright two-story a most be designed in italic <em>as such</em> and cannot
    revert to a single story form.\r\n\r\nOtherwise, a word like father in English
    when transcribed will become ambiguous: \r\n\r\nfa\xF0\u025C\u027E = Scottish\r\nf\u0251\xF0\u025B\u027E
    = Irish\r\n\r\nIn Andron mega, if I set this in Italic, BOTH the Scottish and
    Irish transcription will appear identical which shouldn't happen.  The suprasegmentals
    are those symbols that indicate tonality, stress, and length and are in the spacing
    modifier letters block.  These are an integral part of IPA.  The English word
    for pot (SAE) should be p\u02B0\u0251t, which uses the raised h.  Any tonal language
    needs some of the other ones, and some people might need occasionally the double
    tonal marks found in the 1DC0 block."
  created: '2009-05-21 12:59:38'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>Take your mild offense and ...</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat I find hard to take
    isn't so much the cost, though there are times when and extra $1,000 (20 glyphs,
    each in roman & italic, at $25 per) will kill a project.\r\n\r\nRather it is the
    notion that the type designer is the ultimate authority, as opposed to the several
    end users. About once a month, we get someone, an author, an editor, or a designer,
    who wants something typographic changed. There have been so many of these instances
    over the years I can't keep track.\r\n\r\nThis week, for example, proof came back
    where the publisher (probably the author, but who knows), wanted the breath marks
    on Greek capitals placed over the letter, rather than in front. I could tell them
    they are wrong. Or, I could admit that Greek began around 1,000 BC, and has undergone
    many changes in how it is written.  Maybe at some point in time, that's how they
    were written. I'm certainly no expert on the permutations of the Greek language.
    Or we could just set what they wanted, which is what we did.\r\n\r\nThere were
    only a few occurrences, so we made the change using the layout program. If there
    had been a lot of instances, I would have gone into the font, created a separate
    variant, and written a feature to switch them on. The type designer would not
    have been consulted. Did I mention that second proof is usually due 10 working
    days from when it is received?\r\n\r\nI have also had authors insist that certain
    phonetic characters appear certain ways, in spite of the \"guidance\" about allowable
    variance that can be found in Chicago's <cite>Phonetic Symbol Guide</cite>. Again,
    you usually find this out when first proof is returned.\r\n\r\nType isn't hung
    on a museum wall, and OpenType software can't cover all the users needs.\r\n\r\nIf
    you want to put a clause in your EULA that your fonts cannot be modified, that's
    your right. It does affect their usefulness."
  created: '2009-05-21 14:40:46'
- author:
    name: abi
    picture: 111936
  body: "There is a phonetic companion to Fedra Serif.\r\nhttp://www.typotheque.com/fonts/fedra_serif_phonetic\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-22 01:49:55'
- author:
    name: axeltomas
  body: I've been caught up in meetings and work with little or no time free. Just
    a short burst to thank everybody for the great contributions and I will post back
    with developments asap.
  created: '2009-05-22 12:36:01'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>\u201Cfour different versions of the letter A\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\nOf
    course I know this problem. It is actually unsolvable within a family which contains
    phonetic Italics. As you can see I applied the trick to make the 0251 and 0252
    glyphs in the shape of the \u2018fishy\u2019 alpha in Italics to avoid this particular
    ambiguity. Someone once suggested this, don\u2019t know anymore who it was. Yes,
    the one-storey a at 0250 in Italics corresponding to the two-storey a in Reg.
    is a mess for phonetics. But what you simply *can\u2019t* do is therefore change
    the italic a at 0061 into a two-storey glyph. A two-storey italic a is rubbish
    anyway. But \u201Cscientists\u201D like to invent such typographical nonsense
    and then leave us with the problem \u201CBUT I WANT IT NOT THIS WAY, B\xC4\xC4\xC4H,
    I WANT IT OTHERWAYROUND M\xC4\xC4 M\xC4\xC4 M\xC4\xC4!!\u201C Really anoying.\r\nSeriously:
    HOW to deal with that sensibly? Any known best practice, recommendations? NO,
    no Opentype excuses, please.\r\n\r\n<cite>\u201CIn Andron mega, if I set this
    in Italic\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\nWell, you can do *very* much in Andron Mega, but
    perhaps not everything. To say the least, it\u2019s not the typeface being wrong
    here, it\u2019s the script system itself bearing the fault.\r\n\r\n<cite>The suprasegmentals
    \u2026\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\nI\u2019m not sure wether we are talking about the same
    thing, but all 1DC0-characters are there in Andron Regular.\r\n\r\nHowever, thanks
    for your remarks. If any convincing solution shall be feasible for the a-problem
    I\u2019ll be happy to take care of it with the next upgrade of Andron."
  created: '2009-05-22 16:03:59'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "<cite>But what you simply *can\u2019t* do is therefore change the italic
    a at 0061 into a two-storey glyph.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhy not? I am not saying that
    the italic <em>a</em> for general uses should be a two-storey glyph. I am saying
    that for use in phonetic symbols only, you could provide the two-storey variant
    for the italic <em>a</em>. That seems to me the most reasonable solution. Just
    because one would generally object to two-storey italic <em>a</em>s we shouldn't
    object to such a solution for a specialized use.\r\n\r\nYou can't limit yourself
    to one glyph for one codepoint and expect it to work for all situations.\r\n\r\nBy
    the way, I know that at least one phonetician, David Wells, has objected to the
    single-storey <em>a</em> as a phonetic symbol looking like a 'fish-shaped alpha',
    although he was talking about the roman, not the italic. I don't think that line
    of disambiguation in the italic works for phonetic purposes."
  created: '2009-05-22 16:57:20'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Brian, the problem with having a two-story \"a\" in italic is there is no
    code point for it -- outside, of course, the regular \"a\" in 0061, which is usually
    a one-story a.\r\n\r\nSo what to do? Switch it with an APPH or IPPH language tag
    feature? But not all a's in an italic sentence should be switched. More to the
    point, I have never seen a manuscript with any language tags, let alone an IPPH
    tag. Authors and editors just don't use them.\r\n\r\nWe are left with having it
    as an unencoded glyph, to be found by the unsuspecting comp. Or a PUA glyph, equally
    hidden."
  created: '2009-05-22 21:20:45'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Charles, that is true. The two-story italic <em>a</em> would be an un-encoded
    alternate glyph. Theoretically, one could set it up so that it would be used only
    for text tagged as IPA. However, support for this feature is generally absent
    and as you say, no one uses the language tags anyway.\r\n\r\nIt will be up to
    the editor to make the substitution manually. I cannot imagine that there ever
    would be a text using the two-story italic <em>a</em> extensively; I've never
    seen an example myself, and I've seen a lot of linguistics texts.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    the Fe'fe' or Nufi language of Western Cameroon uses both a and \u0251 in its
    alphabet, so setting a text in that language may require more substitutions than
    an editor could handle. In that case, assuming the entire text is in that language,
    modifying the font so that the italic <em>a</em> is the two-storey version would
    be the simplest way.\r\n\r\nJohn Hudson says he recommends having a dedicated
    IPA font, since there are examples where IPA symbols share code points with letters
    used more often in other contexts (like the Greek letters) that require design
    differences according to use. Distinguishing the italic <em>a</em>s in IPA would
    be another example to support such an argument."
  created: '2009-05-22 22:23:17'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "A separate IPA font is one way to go. Unfortunately, this means there is
    no kerning with the non-IPA font -- unless you have all the normal glyphs in the
    IPA font, which sort of defeats the purpose of \"separate,\" unless all you were
    worried about were non-Latin characters.\r\n\r\nThe problem is exacerbated by
    the fact that most romans use a two-story *a*, most italics a single story *a*,
    which means InDesign's \"character style\" probably won't work as a solution.
    It is just going to be handwork. BTW, I have seen several fonts where the nominal
    \"a\" in italic was two-storied, I just can't think of any off-hand. And that's
    not a solution, anyway."
  created: '2009-05-23 01:36:57'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I <em>am</em> talking about having a separate IPA font that shares the exact
    same glyphs with the regular font for the usual Latin characters, while having
    the Greek letters for example optimized stylistically for IPA, not regular Greek
    text.\r\n\r\nYes, the font substitution is all going to be handwork. Luckily,
    you would never have to kern between the IPA font and the non-IPA font, since
    a phonetic transcription would be separated from the surrounding regular text
    by brackets or space."
  created: '2009-05-23 07:33:23'
- author:
    name: Peter Farago
  body: "Hi, everyone. I'm a graduate student in linguistics and a bit of a type geek,
    and I've registered an account here to throw in my two cents this issue. In general,
    I very much agree with Jongseong. The differences between the various \"a\" characters
    in IPA is meaningful, and probably the only way to effectively handle it in italics
    is with either a separate font, or an OpenType or AAT Stylistic Variant (sorry,
    Andreas). As an end-user, I would personally favor the second approach, although
    I have no idea how much work is entailed in implementing such a feature.\r\n\r\nCharles_e's
    comment about fussy editors demanding italicized IPA is dead on, as I've experienced
    such things myself. In addition, there are a great many minority languages which
    have developed orthographies which include phonetic characters. When it becomes
    necessary to cite words or phrases from these languages, italic styles are practically
    indispensable. Unfortunately, there are very, very few acceptable IPA faces with
    italics, and none at all which include a matching typeface suitable for body text.
    This is one of the reasons I find Andron so exciting: it's an actually nice-looking
    typeface that features a nearly complete set of IPA characters. The requisite
    two-story variants of 0061 (a), 0252 (\u0250), and 00E6 (\xE6) (which, although
    not discussed above, becomes hard to distinguish from 0153 (\u0153) in most italic
    faces) would make it perfect.\r\n\r\nAndreas, I share your frustration that the
    designers of the IPA seemingly failed to consider some of the realities of type
    design, but the truth is that we live in an imperfect world, and we often have
    to live with the poor decisions made by our predecessors. It adds some complexity
    and challenge to life, and I think there are more than a few linguists out there
    who would appreciate your taking the trouble to work out typographic oddities
    like the italic two story \"a\"."
  created: '2009-05-24 07:15:23'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Thank you, Peter, for the valuable end-user input. When you say you would
    prefer the stylistic variant approach, is that because you already work with OpenType-
    or AAT-savvy  software? Or do you just mean that software improvement also on
    your wish-list, along with the IPA fonts designed to take full advantage of them?\r\n\r\nIn
    general, would linguists and other end-users of IPA fonts have the software to
    handle the stylistic variants? In your experience, how would they handle these
    types of issues? My guess is that lots of them do not have the capable software,
    and that's why separate IPA fonts would be a reasonable solution for now. But
    I would agree that having the IPA-specific glyphs as stylistic variants is the
    way to go as the software capabilities catch up."
  created: '2009-05-24 10:01:51'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Peter, Brian\r\n\r\nPeter probably has more to contribute to this thread
    at this point, but let me echo a few things he mentioned.\r\n\r\nFirst of all,
    while I use phonetic symbols reasonably often, the greatest use I encounter is
    in languages which never had a written form -- native American languages come
    to mind -- and the various scholars adopted various orthographies to come up with
    a written form. In the older days (e.g., Ella Deloria), they used what was convenient
    to note with a pencil, writing in the field - i.e., diacriticals. Later, phonetic
    symbols were more common,and are more often used today.\r\n\r\nSecondly, by in
    large the symbols used for phonetics were originally just what was available in
    type, specifically, foundry or Monotype, with their singly cast letters. So, a
    turned \"a\" was just that. A long s was just that. I'll speculate that over time,
    special sorts were created, to aid clarity and consistent usage, but I'm not really
    a type historian.\r\n\r\nDictionary use was probably the financial motivator for
    making whatever custom sorts were needed. But for dictionaries, italic phonetic
    symbols were not needed, or at least, not often needed. It was other uses of phonetic
    characters that brought in the need for italic, and those were quite specialized
    -- i.e., had little potential for recovering the financial cost of making the
    characters.\r\n\r\nThirdly, not everyone uses the IPA system. There are others.\r\n\r\nFor
    all these reasons, a separate font containing IPA characters is not going to solve
    all users problems. It may solve the dictionary publishers problem, but that is
    not the only need.\r\n\r\n* * *\r\n\r\nLinguist are just going to be limited in
    the number of fonts they can use. The problem is, at this point the number of
    fonts suitable for bookwork approaches zero.\r\n\r\nThe number of available fonts
    increases if not all that many phonetic symbols are needed. As I've said, for
    foundries that permit modification of their fonts, the end-user can add to the
    character set. But as the number of needed characters increases, and as the use
    moves toward serious linguistics, more and more precise characters are needed.\r\n\r\nFor
    my money, for serious work involving academic linguistics, I would be better off
    to fix the several non-phonetic problems of Charis-SIL for bookwork (high-resolution
    offset printing) than trying to draw up all the needed phonetic characters. Others,
    whose skill level in drawing up characters is greater, may take a different approach."
  created: '2009-05-24 13:49:13'
- author:
    name: David W. Goodrich
  body: "As a footnote to charles-e's point about losing kerning between fonts, I
    wonder whether this might be overcome with something akin to Peter Kahrel's <a
    href=\"http://www.kahrel.plus.com/indesign/kern.html\">Scripted Custom Kerning
    Tables</a> for InDesign.  These allow one to set up kerning tables that work cross
    the different font styles in a family, so that one can prevent, for example, italic-f
    from crashing with an upright closing parenthesis.  I confess I haven't actually
    tried Peter's script, but am anxious to experiment as soon as I can find the time.\r\n\r\nDavid"
  created: '2009-05-24 16:51:29'
- author:
    name: Peter Farago
  body: "<em>When you say you would prefer the stylistic variant approach, is that
    because you already work with OpenType- or AAT-savvy software?</em>\r\n\r\nYes;
    for serious work I primarily use XeTeX for papers and Apple's Keynote for presentations,
    both of which support OpenType variations.\r\n\r\n<em>In general, would linguists
    and other end-users of IPA fonts have the software to handle the stylistic variants?
    In your experience, how would they handle these types of issues?</em>\r\n\r\nLinguists
    seem divided into two groups on this respect: on the one hand, I have encountered
    professors who still use SIL's symbol encoded legacy fonts because they have yet
    to master unicode entry. On the other hand - and I think this represents the majority
    of young linguists - there is a startlingly high level of typographical literacy.
    Nearly every publishing linguist is TeX-savvy and uses two or more linguistics-specific
    packages. A short ReadMe bundled with a typeface the likes of which we have been
    discussing, including some example XeTeX macros to enable stylistic variants,
    would probably be received very well."
  created: '2009-05-24 18:51:49'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "Peter F.: <cite>\u2026 who would appreciate your taking the trouble to work
    out typographic oddities like the italic two story \u201Ca\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    am happy to confirm that I take such trouble already for several years, more than
    others do. Andron Mega Cp. Italic has *three* different two-storey-a\u2019s alone
    (among them special medievalist glyphs):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Andron_It_aaaa_5356.jpg]\r\n\r\nKnowing
    anyone trying harder -?\r\n                                                                                                                                                                                              \r\n"
  created: '2009-05-28 16:02:45'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "Charles E.:<cite>\u2026 the number of fonts suitable for bookwork approaches
    zero.\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nI disagree. It\u2019s *one*."
  created: '2009-05-28 16:03:47'
- author:
    name: Peter Farago
  body: Andreas, have a look at the samples from IPAPhon in the Greek Characters thread
    to see what these symbols should look like in IPA contexts.
  created: '2009-05-31 03:26:33'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "A good phonetic font package is coming: \r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/58725
    \ :-)"
  created: '2009-06-04 17:50:21'
- author:
    name: Sylph
  body: "<blockquote>\r\nAndreas St\xF6tzner's picture\r\n\r\nA good phonetic font
    package is coming:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/58725 :-)\r\n</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIt
    seems this didn't get finished. Or did it?"
  created: '2012-08-25 10:28:14'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: "Isn't [[http://www.brill.nl/author-gateway/brill-fonts|this]] it?\r\n\r\nNote
    that the offered zip file itself contains another zip file without the .zip extension."
  created: '2012-08-29 18:33:23'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "> It seems this didn't get finished. Or did it?\r\n\r\nNo, it did not yet.\r\nStill
    on the wish list.\r\n\r\nLoosely connected to this: I am currently working on
    special phonetic characters for the DANIA transcription system. It occurs that
    the a/\u0251-problem gets even darker with this, since Dania is usually set in
    Italics only\u2026\r\nThe whole thing may lead me to screw up this phonetic business
    again, neccessary as it is."
  created: '2012-09-01 22:10:30'
date: '2009-05-20 10:51:13'
title: Know any good phonetic symbols fonts?

---
