---
author:
  name: Thomas Phinney
  picture: 128358
body: "Just leaked from Redmond over the last few days:\r\nhttp://www.thomasphinney.com/2009/05/microsoft-office-2010-adds-opentype-goodness/\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
comments:
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "Fantastic news!\r\n\r\n_______________________________________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2009-05-22 15:37:19'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Let\u2019s hope that activating these features flips the kerning switch to
    <strong>ON</strong>, or we\u2019re all going to end up staring at some really
    godawful PowerPoint headlines."
  created: '2009-05-22 15:51:13'
- author:
    name: Gus Winterbottom
  body: The ability to embed PostScript-flavored OpenType fonts (.otf), even if print
    & preview only, would be even better. There are so many great fonts out there
    that I can't use because our contractual deliverables are Word documents.
  created: '2009-05-22 15:51:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks, Thomas!\r\nI hope the Mac version also gets it!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-05-22 16:33:36'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Gus: I was asking our friends at Microsoft for that feature, again. We'll
    see.\r\n\r\nDez: To be fervently wished for, to be sure!\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-05-22 17:15:00'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">we\u2019re all going to end up staring at some really godawful PowerPoint
    headlines.\r\n\r\nAs PowerPoint already applies TyueType kerning by default I
    would guess that they'll also support OT kerning in the future.\r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si"
  created: '2009-05-22 18:43:50'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "> As PowerPoint already applies TrueType kerning by default\r\n\r\nI think
    you mean one can turn it on in PowerPoint 2007/2008... it's off by default, though.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-05-22 19:12:57'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Great news. 15 years late, and one a whole hierarchical level short. \r\n\r\nDidn't
    anybody tell them? Didn't anybody see? Office users don't know how to use features.
    Features for such markets require bundling up to usefully selected and named sets
    of fully automatic features. \r\n\r\nI told 'em this at the very first OT conference
    in Redmond, and said I would help. This is what one MS bright eye told me; \"Don'na
    worry David we'll take carof everrrrrything.\" They have not even thought it out
    yet after 1.5 decades! Have a Happy Support Crisis.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-05-23 12:07:57'
- author:
    name: Martijn van Berkel
    picture: 116039
  body: "Great news! Unfortunately, the Office 2010 Technical Preview doesn't work
    at my computer (XP), so I did not get the chance to test it. PowerPoint doesn't
    show any interface texts and Word crashes at startup. What a shame :(\r\n\r\nKind
    regards,\r\nMartijn van Berkel"
  created: '2009-05-23 14:39:37'
- author:
    name: Gus Winterbottom
  body: ">Office users don\u2019t know how to use features.\r\n\r\nI don't resemble
    that remark."
  created: '2009-05-23 23:42:50'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "In OpenType specification, in feautures registered also by Microsoft, is
    written that kerning and ligatures should be active by default.\r\n\r\nIn Office,
    this is not the case. Why is Microsoft not following its own \u201CUI suggestions\u201D?"
  created: '2009-05-24 11:34:44'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "Will it also recognize OpenType small caps (for fonts that have them) when
    someone selects the small caps checkbox in the regular font formatting options,
    or continue to auto-generate faux small caps as before?\r\n_______________________________________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2009-05-24 11:56:31'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: Gus, I surmise the Office users David refers to are not hanging on Typophile.
  created: '2009-05-24 12:45:23'
- author:
    name: Gus Winterbottom
  body: '@Alessandro, thank you. I wasn''t really offended, though; I should have
    used a tongue-in-cheek icon or something. As a matter of fact, I tend to agree
    with David; nobody should have to see the Word documents I get called to fix.
    Microsoft ought to consider some sort of "admin aide" version of Word -- maybe
    repackage WordPad with a fancy marketing name, like "Office Specialist Edition."
    Which of course it wouldn''t be.'
  created: '2009-05-24 18:49:12'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">In OpenType specification, in feautures registered also by Microsoft, is
    written that kerning and ligatures should be active by default.\r\n\r\nIn Office
    2007 OpenType Kerning and Ligatures are not supported - so it's hard to follow
    guidelines if the features themselves are not supported. \r\n\r\n>and said I would
    help.\r\n\r\nThe five most feared words in typographic feature interface design.
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-25 00:31:13'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "\u201C<cite>In Office 2007 OpenType Kerning and Ligatures are not supported
    - so it\u2019s hard to follow guidelines if the features themselves are not supported.</cite>\u201D\r\n\r\nTrue
    for Office 2007, but not for Office 2010.\r\n\r\nBecause it\u2019s making these
    feautures on by default just a matter of minutes, I am asking myself for the reasons
    to actually turning them off.\r\nThere may still be bugs and in this case I hope
    they get fixed\u2026or is it something else?"
  created: '2009-05-25 08:30:36'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">The five most feared words in typographic feature interface design.\r\nLet
    me guess... Simon, how should this work? :)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-05-25 12:50:24'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: Will we get proper footnote figures? small caps?
  created: '2009-05-25 22:13:22'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "@Gus: I know what you mean! Many of the authors whose manuscripts I see from
    day to day don't even seem to know how to break a page (carriage return, carriage
    return, carriage return...) or build a table (tab, tab, space, space, line tool...),
    let alone handle \u2013 or even notice \u2013 typographical niceties like kerning
    and ligatures...\r\n\r\nOffice users on Typophile, of course, <em>do</em> know
    how to use features. ;-D\r\n\r\nWas there an answer to my question about small
    caps?\r\n_______________________________________________\r\nEver since I chose
    to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2009-05-26 09:25:43'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "As the OT functionality isn't actually working at all in the current \"leaked\"
    version of the app, it's not possible to check whether the old UI now activates
    the OT feature.\r\n\r\nAs MS has not officially released the technical preview
    yet, I doubt they are willing to comment, yet.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-05-26 19:30:31'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>Was there an answer to my question about small caps?</em>\r\n\r\nI
    asked about small caps over on [[http://www.orzeszek.org/blog/2009/05/17/how-to-enable-opentype-ligatures-in-word-2010/|Chris'
    blog]] and his answer was,\r\n<cite>No, Word 2010 doesn\u2019t appear to support
    true small caps etc. If you select small caps in the Font dialog, Word 2010 just
    uses the shrunk down capitals formatting that Word has always used.</cite>"
  created: '2009-05-27 01:05:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Word 2010 just uses the shrunk down capitals formatting that Word has always
    used.\"\r\n\r\nthe deflating sound of a baloon oozing its last gasps of air follows...\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-05-27 02:43:24'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: Sounds useless, again.
  created: '2009-05-27 06:05:21'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: Doh! [head slap]
  created: '2009-05-27 09:41:17'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: 'Well, I''ll still see the glass as at least half full. But yes, this does
    mean you still can''t do basic decent typography in Word. (In my book, it requires
    three things: standard ligatures, oldstyle proportional figures, and real small
    caps.)'
  created: '2009-06-09 06:18:29'
- author:
    name: zevbiz
    picture: 115672
  body: You should get in touch with the Office devs Thomas.  They'd listen to you.
  created: '2009-06-09 08:00:40'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The Word OTL implementation is barely half-baked. Apart from the lack of
    proper smallcap and superscript support, in the current version it seems that
    contextual lookups are incorrectly handled.\r\n\r\nThe Publisher team, on the
    other hand, have done a serious amount of work implementing OTL features for the
    new version (some of it specifically in response to the Gabriola font, I'm pleased
    to report)."
  created: '2009-06-09 09:30:57'
- author:
    name: Gus Winterbottom
  body: I must be missing something about Word and small caps. If you try to generate
    small caps from a font that doesn't have the glyphs, yes, Word simply scales the
    capitals. I don't see how you can blame Word if a font doesn't have small cap
    glyphs. But I've always been able to install the OSF & small cap version of a
    font (for instance, Linotype Times Ten) and get proper small caps. The same with
    superscripts and subscripts. Sure, it's a minor inconvenience to have to apply
    a different font in the middle of running text, but it does work.
  created: '2009-06-09 16:42:24'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "OpenType was intended to solve the work-arounds you describe. So what Tom
    intended to say...\r\n\r\n\"In my book, it requires three things: standard OpenType-enabled
    ligatures, OpenType-enabled oldstyle proportional figures, and real OpenType-enabled
    small caps\"\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-09 16:46:05'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "@Gus: yes, for fonts where these features are in separate files; but the
    point here was about fonts where they are OpenType features of the main font file.\r\n\r\n[EDIT:
    cross-post with sii ;-D]\r\n_______________________________________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2009-06-09 16:50:27'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "Anyhoo, re Word: what Zev said.\r\nre Publisher: good to hear, John, but
    how big's the user base really? [ahem]"
  created: '2009-06-09 16:52:22'
- author:
    name: Gus Winterbottom
  body: '@Dave, yes, in the online equivalent of esprit d''escalier, that struck me
    about a picosecond after hitting the post button. Oh well, perhaps OpenType small
    caps will be available through the insert symbol dialog. That is a real pain for
    more than a few characters.'
  created: '2009-06-09 16:59:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Gus: <em>Sure, it\u2019s a minor inconvenience to have to apply a different
    font in the middle of running text, but it does work.</em>\r\n\r\nMore than an
    inconvenience, since this mechanism also requires you to alter the text when smallcaps
    represent uppercase characters in order to display correctly using the lowercase-encoded
    smallcaps in the SC font."
  created: '2009-06-09 18:45:33'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "off topic\r\n\r\nSigh. All this talk about goodies in Office 2010 is depressing
    when you consider that my college just installed Office 2007 on my computer <i>yesterday</i>."
  created: '2009-06-09 19:01:55'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Sii: Yes, exactly, OT-enabled versions of all.\r\n\r\nZevbiz: You said \"You
    should get in touch with the Office devs Thomas. They\u2019d listen to you.\"
    Unsurprisingly, I have been in touch, and have had a substantial email chat with
    the relevant PM at Microsoft. I can't really discuss it, except to say that all
    the OpenType UI/feature decisions are being made carefully and deliberately. It's
    not as if they just didn't talk to the right people or some such.\r\n\r\nGus:
    Insert Symbol will only work with encoded characters, not alternates, AFAIK. So
    it would potentially work (and presumably already did) with those fonts where
    the alternates are themselves given PUA codepoints, as Adobe used to do. Indeed,
    that was the main argument for such PUA encoding of glyphs properly left unencoded.
    But Adobe has abandoned that practice in recent fonts, and Microsoft and many
    others never used it in theirs, so with those fonts \"Insert Symbol\" probably
    won't help.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-06-09 19:03:48'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">@MS...all the OpenType UI/feature decisions are being made carefully and
    deliberately. \r\n\r\n...made so carefully and deliberately in fact, that MS has
    reinvented the while.\r\n\r\n>It\u2019s not as if they just didn\u2019t talk to
    the right people...\r\n\r\nDo you really think that rationing out this technology
    feature-by-feature, application-by-application is even remotely going to work
    for <em>that</em> market?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-06-10 12:19:30'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "[I was thinking if it was better to start a new thread, but finally I decided
    to revive this old one.]\r\n\r\nSo now that Office 2010 for PC and 2011 for Mac
    are already released, can anyone tell what are exactly the OT features supported
    in both versions? I wasn\u2019t able to find a good answer on the web. Mainly
    interested in Word. Thanks in advance."
  created: '2010-11-15 04:47:19'
- author:
    name: Gerry K
    picture: 111480
  body: "In Word 2011 for the Mac, the Advanced tab of the Font dialog box has three
    sections: \r\n<ul>\r\n<li>Character Spacing</li>\r\n<li>Advanced typography</li>\r\n<li>Preview</li>\r\n</ul>\r\nThe
    Advanced typography section has four drop-down lists and two check boxes. The
    drop-down lists (and choices) are:\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>Ligitures (None, Standard Only,
    Standard and Contextual, Standard and Discretionary, Historical and Discretionary,
    All)</li>\r\n<li>Number spaciing (Default, Proportional, Tabular)</li>\r\n<li>Number
    forms (Default, Lining, Old-style)</li>\r\n<li>Stylistic sets (Default, 1 through
    20)</li>\r\n</ul>\r\nThe check boxes are:\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>Use contextual alternates</li>\r\n<li>Enable
    TrueType typography features</li>\r\n</ul>"
  created: '2010-11-15 15:59:23'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "Thank you, Gerald. Seems this is a good time for upgrading to the 2011 version.
    \r\n\r\nPlease, can anyone confirm that Word 2010 for PC offers the same OT capabilities?"
  created: '2010-11-15 16:05:29'
- author:
    name: pvanderlaan
    picture: 112305
  body: "Yes, I can confirm all of the above except for the last option (\"enable
    TrueType typography features\" \u2013 what is it for?). Here's a screenshot of
    the Word 2010 \"advanced\" font panel.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture-1_5001.gif]\r\n\r\nIn
    the normal font panel there are also options for small caps, superiors and inferiors
    but sadly these are all synthesized, even when the font does contain these in
    OT features... :(\r\n\r\nOh, and by default *all* the OpenType features are disabled,
    including kerning and ligatures.\r\n\r\n-Paul"
  created: '2010-11-15 17:49:28'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "Great, Paul. Thanks for the info. A client of mine is asking for a way to
    insert OT ligatures in Word, so finally there is a way!\r\n\r\n> In the normal
    font panel there are also options for small caps, superiors and inferiors but
    sadly these are all synthesized, even when the font does contain these in OT features\r\n\r\nWell,
    it is not a perfect world. I can survive without superiors and inferiors, but
    no real small caps is really sad. Hopefully in the next version\u2026"
  created: '2010-11-15 17:56:30'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Word is a turd and delivering it on a silver platter won't change that.\r\n\r\nI
    have never, ever been able to grasp the model behind Word, or any other typical
    word processing program, for that matter. Never met anybody who has, either.\r\nSomething
    is very, very wrong when average people who have spent thousands of hours using
    an application are still befuddled by it.\r\n\r\nAdd Camel dung and old typewriter
    parts in equal measure, and you've got Word. And compared to alternatives, it's
    ridiculously overpriced.\r\n\r\nYet I've always found MS Publisher very, very
    easy to grasp.\r\n\r\nFor basic typewriter-style docs, I'm hoping an HTML based
    system takes hold, now that the specs - CSS 2.1, etc.. - are reliable and we don't
    need system fonts anymore.\r\n\r\nIf the pinheads who came up with the APA and
    MLA guidelines would allow for this stuff maybe there'd be something to talk about.\r\n\r\nGrrrr......\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-15 19:41:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: 'Word is what it is (a bloated behemoth) and I only use it for testing purposes
    but it is a fact of life for millions of users at least for now or until it gets
    a visit from Jenny Craig;-).  '
  created: '2010-11-15 21:51:09'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@chris\r\n\r\n>it is a fact of life for millions of users\r\n\r\nYeah, tell
    me about it! And it's certainly more like hundreds of millions of users.\r\nBut
    Google Docs is looking more tempting every day."
  created: '2010-11-16 12:56:06'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: You can always get a job as a pizza delivery man!
  created: '2010-11-16 13:04:47'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "<em>You can always get a job as a pizza delivery man!</em>\r\nFor the past
    hour, I've been trying to figure out what the frack you're talking about. I think
    I know now. Funny thing is, I *was* picking up a pizza! Happened in the parking
    lot.\r\nWord."
  created: '2010-11-21 00:35:09'
- author:
    name: Trevor Baum
    picture: 121410
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screen_shot_2011-03-04_at_11_4399.png]\r\n\r\nEven
    if I'm using OpenType fonts with ligatures that I know work in CS5, my \"Advanced
    typography\" options are grayed out with every single font.  Is there something
    I'm doing wrong?"
  created: '2011-03-04 16:07:49'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "Ligatures in InDesign are a tricky thing. InDesign uses some of them even
    if there is no ligature OT feature in the fonts. What kind of OpenType-Fonts do
    you use, CFF oder TrueType-based?\r\n\r\nWhat is the \xBBEnable TrueType typography
    features\xAB checkbox supposed to do? Is it AAT-related?"
  created: '2011-03-04 16:25:49'
- author:
    name: J. Tillman
    picture: 118124
  body: "Trevor Baum, Sorry I don't have a specific answer. Nor do I have Word 2010.
    I assume you are using Word 2010 on Windows. Are you seeing this even with Microsoft's
    own fonts, like Cambria or Gabriola? Are you seeing this with a different text
    than the one shown, like lower case?\r\n\r\nUnder Word Options...Advance tab on
    the right....Layout Options toward the bottom....Is there a box to Disable Opentype
    Formatting Features?\r\n\r\nA tangent, also read this post indicating a possible
    problem with Opentype CFF fonts and making a PDF.\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/72404"
  created: '2011-03-04 17:35:29'
date: '2009-05-22 09:39:02'
title: Microsoft Office 2010 to get OpenType goodness

---
