---
author:
  name: jko
  picture: 128231
body: "I developed the logo for a publisher. I had some trouble solving the feet of
  the angel.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lanzallamas_5939.jpg]"
comments:
- author:
    name: zevbiz
    picture: 115672
  body: " The fire breath reminds me a bit of a flame decal.  Can you show us some
    other variations?\r\n\r\n Right now the angel looks somewhat somber to me. I'm
    not an artist, but if you were to make him look more heroic I believe you would
    have a more impactful design.\r\n\r\nLastly I think the type treatment could use
    a bit of work.  I don't have any specific font suggestions but I think it text
    would look better with a larger x-height and increased spacing."
  created: '2009-05-24 08:06:08'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: "I thought I knew my Bible stories pretty well, but I'm drawing a blank on
    the angel with the fire-breathing lion. What's the story behind this image?\r\nLike
    Zev, I'm not an illustrator, but I think the placement of the angel makes it ambiguous
    whether he's riding the lion or standing next to it. Also, if you refine the shape
    of the lion's forelegs, it will be more obvious that they don't belong to the
    angel.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lion_Benjamin_Waterhouse_Hawkins_1860_5052.jpg]\r\n<em>(Detail
    from drawing by Benjamin Waterhouse Hawkins, 1860)</em>\r\nTo make the angel more
    heroic as Zev suggests, try moving his torch-bearing arm forward so it's not superimposed
    on his head. And give him a stronger chin."
  created: '2009-05-24 14:07:05'
- author:
    name: zevbiz
    picture: 115672
  body: "You may find some good ideas here jko:\r\n\r\nhttp://istockphoto.com/file_search.php?action=file&text=silhouette+lion\r\nhttp://istockphoto.com/file_search.php?action=file&text=silhouette+flame\r\nhttp://istockphoto.com/file_search.php?action=file&text=silhouette+wings\r\nhttp://istockphoto.com/file_search.php?action=file&text=silhouette+angel"
  created: '2009-05-24 15:23:55'
- author:
    name: jko
    picture: 128231
  body: "guau! thanks, I'll soon post new versions.\r\nMore heroic, that's the spirit.\r\n\r\nThe
    image of the lion is amazing and enlightening.\r\n\r\n_______________________________________________________________\r\n\r\njko
    | www.sindicatodelaimagen.org/cft/ | www.navaja.org"
  created: '2009-05-24 19:12:45'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "mojo that image is freakin HOT!\r\n\r\nknow what the source was?\r\n\r\nangel?
    riding lion? walking next to lion? holding torch? wtf!?\r\n\r\nhonestly it looks
    like you've grabbed a couple of different images through goggle smashed em together
    and traced em (badly.)\r\nI'm also curious as to why a publisher (I'm presume
    of the printed variety) would use a domain name in their 'logo'.\r\n\r\n<br />\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic
    Designer</a> - Melbourne"
  created: '2009-05-25 00:33:25'
- author:
    name: jko
    picture: 128231
  body: "Paul, What is the idea of putting this kind of comments here? Is it so that
    people step out of these places?\r\n\"El Angel y el Leon\" (the angel and the
    lion) is the name of a Roberto Negri\xB4s sculpture located in Santiago de Chile.
    It was a gift from Italy to Chile for the celebration of its independence. It
    is not an invention, it is a sculpture, the drawing it is based on a photography
    of it.http://www.flickr.com/photos/escatologia/3461527828/sizes/o/\r\nIf it is
    badly drawn is because it\xB4s in development, and that is why it is posted here,
    so other people can comment what is right or wrong about it. These way I can improve
    it.\r\nThe idea of using .org in the logo is because more than a publishing company
    (that publishes books) it is a independent colective of cultural spreading, that
    remarks it\xB4s inspiration as a independent Organization, more than a commercial
    one. Besides it\xB4s a webzine and also a independent publishing company, so is
    more important to remark the domain (URL).\r\n\r\nI will appreciate in the near
    future that the comments were a little bit more constructive and thoughtful, is
    a bit violent to receive non constructive critics and only disparaging or malicious
    ones.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/angel_4343.jpg]\r\nNew version,
    thanks for the comments.\r\n\r\nSome really important. Lanzallamas means Flamethrower,
    the name of a book of Roberto Arlt.\r\n\r\n\r\njko | Santiago de Chile"
  created: '2009-05-25 02:31:02'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: "I found the 1860 lion drawing at [[http://www.solarnavigator.net/animal_kingdom/mammals/lions.htm|this
    URL]]. There's a list of links and references at the bottom of that page, if you
    want to know more.\r\nThank you for introducing me to Negri's sculpture.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/angelleon_5005.jpg]\r\n([[http://www.flickr.com/photos/25045049@N02/2364539352/|Photo
    by BrdrTrekkr on Flickr]])"
  created: '2009-05-25 12:03:18'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "jko - what do you mean? did you take offence to something I posted?\r\n\r\nIf
    you'd said - this is a very bare bones WIP of an initial idea for a logo for an
    independent webzine publishing collective - with a focus on cultural \r\ncommunication.
    Then you'd probably have got more 'constructive' feedback. Without sounding too
    harsh, I'll comment on what I see and how I see it, based on the information provided.\r\n\r\nContinuing
    ... I don't think the flames are necessary. The sculpture is fantastic and can
    really work as the logo ... I just think it needs a lot more work on composition
    and execution. It's not reading well (if at all).\r\n\r\nDon't take it the wrong
    way. We're here to help.\r\n\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul
    Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic Designer</a>
    - Melbourne"
  created: '2009-05-26 01:50:32'
- author:
    name: sch2525
    picture: 112170
  body: "Check out the number of legs...I see one front paw, two angel legs, and two
    hind paws. Although the angel's rear leg looks a lot like the lion's...maybe it
    is the lion's? Very confusing.\r\n\r\nAlso, the area where the angel's robe/dress/tunic
    touches the lion's back creates a weird shape, I think. \r\n\r\nOverall, I think
    there's a distracting imbalance of negative and \"positive\" space. Personally,
    while I agree that the first flame looks like a car decal, I like it better than
    the newest version, which looked to me like a duck trying to escape the lion's
    mouth.\r\n\r\nHave you played around with the direction at all? Flipped the image
    horizontally so that the lion/angel are facing to the right?\r\n\r\n-Scott"
  created: '2009-05-26 14:25:16'
- author:
    name: rlynch
  body: "I would definitely look at redrawing with focus on anatomy of people and
    lions, rather than working from a photo of a statue. As Ratty said, the execution
    is lacking.\r\n\r\nRoss"
  created: '2009-05-26 14:37:53'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Hmm, interesting. \r\nI like the ambiguity about whose legs are whose. I
    also like the way you've got five legs. On first glance most people wouldn't notice
    that's an odd number. To me it looks unmistakeably like the angel is walking,
    and not riding the lion. \r\nI would however add some sharpness to the contours,
    it seems a lot of the corners are too round, clean and smooth. I think some polishing
    of the silhouettes to get them closer to anatomical would be very worthwhile.
    \r\nI'm not sure about the way the fire on the lion's mouth is shaped.\r\nAnd
    I'd flip it to face right.\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-26 16:27:15'
- author:
    name: Bolivar
  body: "Hi jko,\r\n\r\nI think your legs arrangement is quite good. More than five
    legs would be a mess. If you want more suggestions, I have two:\r\n\r\n1. I find
    the ground baseline a bit too heavy. Have you tried something thinner?\r\n\r\n2.
    There is something weird about the angel's torch. It doesn't seem to follow the
    same rules as the lion's flame.\r\n\r\n3. (I said i had two suggestions, but...)
    I find it a bit too complex for a logo. Have you already started checking it in
    small sizes?\r\n\r\nInspired star anyway. Keep working!!\r\n\r\nYago\r\n\r\n\r\nwww.yagobolivar.es"
  created: '2009-05-26 18:43:23'
- author:
    name: Toby
    picture: 109971
  body: "Hi jko, \r\nI think this can turn out nicely, it\xB4s an interesting image.
    But I think there\xB4s a bit too much going on in this logo, too much flames and
    legs. I would try and find a more dynamic view of the lion and the angel - maybe
    something like the picture of the statue posted by Mojo would work. Actually I
    think it would. And I would skip the ground, or incorporate it with the text (making
    the ground a black box with white text in it). I also would skip the flames. If
    needed because of the name, stick to one flame - coming from the lion, disconnected
    from its mouth... "
  created: '2009-05-26 22:24:23'
- author:
    name: DavM
    picture: 111865
  body: "Not saying this sort of geometric designi is the direction you should take.
    But its kinda easier with real examples.\r\nI'd like to see this sort of iconization
    (if thats even a word) or simplification on the work you're doing. Its got potencial.\r\n\r\nGood
    luck\r\n\r\nPs: This is a work by Hello Monday \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/x_5127.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/x2_6551.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/x3_5907.jpg]"
  created: '2009-05-26 22:34:00'
- author:
    name: jko
    picture: 128231
  body: "\r\nhey thanks for all the comments!\r\n\r\nI followed the idea of entirely
    redrawing the shapes and I have come to this solution, which I think is significantly
    better.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/LANZALLAMAS_4006.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n_______________________________________________________________\r\n\r\n\r\njko
    | www.sindicatodelaimagen.org/cft/blog | www.latinotype.com"
  created: '2009-05-27 02:09:57'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "oh and you got over being offended? :-P\r\n\r\nit looks LOADS better.\r\n\r\nDavM
    - that is HOTNESS!\r\n\r\nI too reckon it should take an aesthetic approach like
    the one posted.\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul
    Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic Designer</a>
    - Melbourne"
  created: '2009-05-27 03:09:47'
- author:
    name: all about seb
    picture: 110631
  body: "Jko, this is coming along very nicely.\r\n\r\nPersonally, I would loose the
    flames coming from the lion and the wobbly ground the statue stands on. I reckon
    they simply distract from the overall beauty of the mark. Plus, you should really
    work on the type treatment and its relationship to the mark. "
  created: '2009-05-27 08:51:28'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "You could allow the ground to stay rough on the upper edge, but make it nice
    & flat underneath so it doesn't make distracting \u2018wobbly' shapes above the
    text.\r\n________________________________________________\r\nEver since I chose
    to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2009-05-27 13:46:10'
- author:
    name: Bolivar
  body: "Wow!!\r\n\r\nThis is a very interesting work in progress.\r\n\r\nI agree
    with all about seb. The image is quite complex, and giving away some elements
    would help readability and pregnancy. Besides, the flames, although very well
    drawn so far, seem to be a bit too realistic compared with the rest. Also, removing
    the ground is something you should definitely try: legs+text should be enough
    to hold both figures.\r\n\r\nwww.yagobolivar.es"
  created: '2009-05-27 17:03:11'
- author:
    name: zevbiz
    picture: 115672
  body: "What about making the ground thicker and placing white text over it?\r\nAlso
    I think the wings would look better with pointier feathers.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lanzall_4238.png]\r\n\r\nFinally
    the lion's flames don't really fit with the rest of the image."
  created: '2009-05-27 22:15:34'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: How about making the type be the flames?
  created: '2009-05-27 22:18:45'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Yes, I was also going to say pointier feathers...looks good. It's a very detailed
    logo now. I wonder if there's too much going on?
  created: '2009-05-27 22:35:53'
- author:
    name: jakes
    picture: 116060
  body: too much detail & off balance imo.
  created: '2009-05-28 00:24:38'
- author:
    name: jakes
    picture: 116060
  body: "Feel like drawing this morning...so here is a quickie...hope you don't mind.\r\n\r\nI
    based the illustration off one of the photo above. It still can be simplify even
    more imo. But anyway, I tried to give it a more stylize & dynamic approach.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/laz_6073.jpg]"
  created: '2009-05-28 18:47:05'
- author:
    name: zevbiz
    picture: 115672
  body: I like your lion Jake.  (Although the tail seems to have a boner)
  created: '2009-05-28 20:14:44'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "some of the focal/action arcs need work (IMO) but jake's quickie is a great
    alternative.<br />\r\nthe flames certainly don't help from a compositional point
    of view.\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic Designer</a> - Melbourne"
  created: '2009-05-28 23:57:18'
- author:
    name: DavM
    picture: 111865
  body: "I like that draft jakes.\r\nEven tho its just a quickie it doesn't resemble
    a lion anymore and it should not loose that. \r\nWell but that'd be just a small
    tweak on the face and it'd be solved anyway."
  created: '2009-05-29 00:05:14'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: "ok unlike jakes, i'm too busy (haha--just kiddin) to do real work. too lazy.
    but he showed in his drawing what i was going to suggest, and that is to create
    a more symmetric structure by using the angles to your advantage. it would look
    more dynamic as well, if you sort of following the two axis of a letter x (more
    or less of course. also, as jakes shows, you absolutely need the head to be separated
    from the arm. \r\n\r\nanyways, the red lines show a rough axis to be used. and
    since i didn't do the work, i would imagine the lion would need to posture up
    a little bit, stand a little higher at the shoulder, and bring the butt down--again
    jakes you nailed it. haha. i might as well just be explaining what you did\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lanzall_4238_6416.jpg]"
  created: '2009-05-29 01:05:00'
- author:
    name: jko
    picture: 128231
  body: "Excelent, you give me a lot to do! Thank you all.\r\nThe jakes drawn is very
    nice, and the evanbrog explanation gave me some ideas.\r\nThe all-about-seb comment
    is a good idea, i'll try to do it.\r\n\r\nPaul, we are ok. :)\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-02 02:41:28'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "So far I've been quiet. But can't be any more.\r\nI'm sorry to say that I
    don't like this logo at all. It's going in the wrong direction, it's clipart and
    not a logo.\r\nWHat jakes did was at least something you could build on. Existing
    logo has waaaay too much detail, various shape style and as said. Not a logo in
    itself.\r\n\r\nThere are lots of great logos with lions around the world, and
    when you try to produce another one, make sure it works in small sizes as well.
    This one doesn't. You got distracted by reality.\r\n\r\nLet me show you one of
    the very nice lion stylisations around that can give you a hint.\r\nhttp://www.stol.si
    (never mind outdated website, but logo is plain fab)\r\n\r\nJakes' logo did lack
    lion figure stylisation and too rigid torch, but it had dynamics.\r\n\r\nAs far
    as I can say this existing logo is facing the wrong way if nothing else. Unless
    you live in a Right2Left reading country. It's moving to the left, looks left
    and that is wrong already. It goes back to past and downgrades business instead
    of growing and future's_looking_bright logo...\r\n___________\r\n<em>Robert Koritnik</em>"
  created: '2009-06-02 10:04:41'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "uh oh. there's going to be tears.\r\n\r\n:-S\r\n\r\n;-)<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic
    Designer</a> - Melbourne"
  created: '2009-06-03 00:05:03'
- author:
    name: MrBulbous
  body: "I only skimmed this thread but wanted to throw my 2\xA2 in. Hopefully I don't
    say something some else already has. One thing, and it may only be me, but the
    fact the angel and lion are facing \"backwards\" and towards the \"past\" is somewhat
    bothering me. Then again, perhaps it's a good thing seeing as how the myth is
    from the past. Just wanted to point out that I responded to that subtle detail.
    I think the foundation could look a little more \"stable\" and less loose. It
    looks as though it is falling apart.\r\n\r\njko \u2013 Good luck and I look forward
    to seeing future refinements."
  created: '2009-06-03 04:48:54'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "I must apologize JKO. I was a bit harsh with you without giving you any positive
    feedback. I can see you want to make this logo work. I just wanted to say that
    the path you're taking is not the right one.\r\n\r\nI'm still very ken to see
    where this will get...\r\n___________\r\n<em>Robert Koritnik</em>"
  created: '2009-06-04 20:36:02'
- author:
    name: jko
    picture: 128231
  body: "Don't worry Robert (and Paul). My basic level of English confuse me, and
    sometimes I read things harder than they are.\r\nI'm from Chile and speak spanish...\r\n\r\nAbout
    the angel and lion, it's true. Now is like a clipart, with a very tense position
    and a extrange composition.\r\n\r\nI'll follow the advice to give more emphasis
    to heroism... and <strong>maybe</strong> remove the flame. :)\r\n\r\n_______________________________________________________________\r\n\r\njko
    | www.sindicatodelaimagen.org/cft/blog | www.latinotype.com"
  created: '2009-06-11 01:02:06'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "I like tapas.\r\n\r\n:-P\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul
    Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic Designer</a>
    - Melbourne"
  created: '2009-06-11 05:58:07'
- author:
    name: jko
    picture: 128231
  body: "JAJA. Paul, in chile the tapas don't even exist. This is really southern,
    penguins and \xF1and\xFAes. Maybe a chorrillana from valpara\xEDso http://www.flickr.com/photos/ilo_oli/2599344086/.\r\n\r\n_______________________________________________________________\r\n\r\njko
    | www.sindicatodelaimagen.org/cft/blog | www.latinotype.com"
  created: '2009-06-11 21:02:57'
- author:
    name: jko
    picture: 128231
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lanza_5186.jpg]\r\n\r\nNew version,more
    stylish and clean. \r\nAfter one hundred drafts, and some Eric Gill style.\r\nAnd
    without letters\r\n\r\n\r\njko"
  created: '2009-06-11 21:09:13'
- author:
    name: zevbiz
    picture: 115672
  body: "That's hot!\r\n\r\nOnly thing I'm not loving is the halo.\r\n\r\nAlso you
    might want to remove the white line on the lion's front leg."
  created: '2009-06-12 03:38:30'
- author:
    name: jko
    picture: 128231
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lanzallamas-resiste_6311.jpg]\r\n\r\neverything
    but the fire...\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\njko."
  created: '2009-06-12 06:25:45'
- author:
    name: zevbiz
    picture: 115672
  body: fantastic!
  created: '2009-06-12 08:30:30'
- author:
    name: all about seb
    picture: 110631
  body: "This is a fantastic improvement, well done. \r\n\r\nSome thoughts:\r\n\r\n-
    keep the white line on the front leg - it created a nice depth\r\n- consider changing
    the angel's neck & lion's tail (maybe it is just the angle?)\r\n- type still needs
    some work, it feels added on, not part of the overall design\r\n\r\n \r\n"
  created: '2009-06-12 12:37:57'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Great work. Wow!\r\nThe new flames rock, too.\r\nI agree with Seb about keeping
    the white line on the front leg, but maybe the tail doesn't need one?\r\nAnd I
    agree that the angel's neck looks stiff.\r\n\r\nAbout the type: I think the cap
    \"L\" sticks out too much.\r\nSpontaneous thought, maybe you can find an italic
    whose slant angle (optically) matches the leg of the angel that's just above that
    double \"l\" now? That might be neat."
  created: '2009-06-12 14:35:39'
- author:
    name: rlynch
  body: "Really good improvement.\r\n\r\nI'd suggest that the angel looks a little
    as though he's struggling up a hill, whereas in the photo of the monument he appears
    to be standing taller.\r\n\r\nRoss"
  created: '2009-06-12 15:09:58'
- author:
    name: katedawson1
    picture: 117474
  body: "Wow, the new ones look really good. I agree with Altaira about the angle
    of the angel's neck. \r\nI also like how the style of the lion's fire matches
    the torch.\r\nI would angle the tip of the tail down and to the right slightly,
    to sort of fill (not completely) some of the negative space at the lion's ankle.
    Right now it is pointing directly at the leg. If you angle it down and to the
    right more, it will \"point\" to the words, helping to draw the eye down to the
    words.\r\n____________________________\r\nwww.coroflot.com/kate_dawson"
  created: '2009-06-12 15:34:54'
- author:
    name: luciano_vergara
    picture: 110294
  body: "Jko Hello, I think the new angel q even is not consistent with Leon in his
    style, the angel is very clean but the Leon have many details, are required to
    futurism Leon\r\n\r\nsaludos"
  created: '2009-06-12 18:39:29'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Lion's front legs, and maybe angel's head, look a little spindly to me.
  created: '2009-06-12 19:34:19'
- author:
    name: jakes
    picture: 116060
  body: "Much improvement!\r\n\r\nAngel's neck...looks too long. I also agree with
    Luciano...the angel's wing doesn't match the rest of the style."
  created: '2009-06-12 20:16:20'
- author:
    name: rlynch
  body: "I think another problem with the neck is that it appears to be disconnected
    from the spine.\r\n\r\nRoss"
  created: '2009-06-12 21:34:05'
- author:
    name: AndreaC
  body: "The Angel really needs to STAND in a correct posture.\r\nAlso, as someone
    said, the wings are a bit too geometric, they don't fit the style of the rest
    of the elements.\r\nKeep working, the logo is making progress :)"
  created: '2009-06-13 12:07:35'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: I think maybe it doesn't need the angel's lower arm and its head looks a bit
    funny. And the lion's hips look a bit small and low? But I like the lion's head
    and angel's wing.
  created: '2009-06-13 12:24:29'
- author:
    name: Ed_Aranda
    picture: 117416
  body: 'This thread has been a good read. The logo looks much better now, than it
    did at the beginning. I''ll echo everyone else''s remaining criticisms and add
    that, to me the lion''s body seems a bit long. I also would prefer a more iconic
    style. The one posted earlier on by DavM is fantastic. [[http://www.aya-fineguns.com|AyA]]
    is one our clients, and I''ve always liked the way their logo feels like a statue
    without being overly detailed. I wish a had a better picture of it; I think the
    drop shadow used on the website is distracting. '
  created: '2009-06-13 20:44:10'
- author:
    name: jko
    picture: 128231
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lanzallamas_5286.8.jpg]\r\n\r\nHello
    and thank you all.\r\n\r\nI think I'm really close to the final Angel & Lion,
    with all the help of you guys. \t\r\nI've learned a lot.\r\n\r\nI make some changes
    to the flames, the hair, the neck, the wings (off course), the tail and the lion's
    hips.\r\n\r\nI don't want a geometric result, then I've draw the wings more organic\r\n\r\nwhen
    I finish the drawing, i'll start with the word...\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-16 06:13:26'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "First. These wings are better but I think they do have too many tips. Change
    the size of the logo and you'll see that some of these will become problematic.
    So less detail.\r\n\r\nSecond. End of angel belly and start of the front leg is
    just about visible above the lion's back. Remove it.\r\n\r\nThird. Did you try
    tilting the torch a bit to the right and flame a bit to the left giving a feeling
    of movement.\r\n\r\nI think much could still be done with lion's head... Otherwise
    this is a logo that can actually get somewhere. Very well evolved.\r\n\r\n___________\r\n<em>Robert
    Koritnik</em>"
  created: '2009-06-16 08:56:30'
- author:
    name: zevbiz
    picture: 115672
  body: What about getting rid of the left arm?  I think that might simplify things.
  created: '2009-06-16 09:11:41'
- author:
    name: jko
    picture: 128231
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Imagen-1_5314.jpg]\r\n\r\nThe left one
    is the new.\r\n\r\nLitera: I rid off the wing, now looks better on small sizes.
    And i've make the small details that you've advised\r\n\r\nZEV: Without the left
    arm it's more clear, but this modifies a little bit the posture of the angel.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-17 04:30:14'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "if you have to keep the arm there - I don't think it's needed - then you
    should consider revising the 'stacking order' you've currently got it in/at. He's
    holding the lion with his furthest arm but standing on the far side?\r\n\r\nI
    also don't know that the curved line styles are assisting at this point ... the
    basic structure and proportions aren't there yet.\r\n(just my opinion)\r\n\r\nwhy
    not show some of the sketches you did before vectoring the illustration?\r\n\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic Designer</a> - Melbourne"
  created: '2009-06-17 05:30:34'
- author:
    name: zevbiz
    picture: 115672
  body: Looking much better with just one arm.
  created: '2009-06-17 07:10:51'
- author:
    name: jko
    picture: 128231
  body: "Without the arm is really better. I am quite convinced with this version.\r\n\r\n\r\nPaul
    the sketches are really worse that this version.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/boceto_3774.jpg]\r\n\r\nMaybe
    the size of the angel can be corrected, and the tail."
  created: '2009-06-18 04:56:33'
- author:
    name: Marco
  body: "Jko, let me first say this shows some nice progress... \r\n\r\nFurther my
    comment is that your drawn version is much better than your verctorization. Only
    some detials such as the angels head and lions should be explored more by drawing.
    But the drawing is still more powerful. For example the way the angels backleg
    stands (on his toes) is very different than the vector.\r\n\r\nLast thing, but
    this is more a question: Do you really need the strange ground the statue is standing
    on? Or if you do, maybe explore different shapes?\r\n\r\n\r\nGood luck!"
  created: '2009-06-18 11:56:05'
- author:
    name: Ed_Aranda
    picture: 117416
  body: I think the proportions and postures of the sketch are better than the vector.
  created: '2009-06-18 21:45:41'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "Oh yes. Lion's head much better on the sketch.\r\nI was also asking myself
    of lions tail facing downwards/inwards as a sign of fear. Animals usually put
    it upwards when powerful/dominant. So your sketch has a different version here.\r\n\r\nAnd
    I'd still ike to see the torch tilt and flame change to see the movement.\r\n\r\n___________\r\n<em>Robert
    Koritnik</em>"
  created: '2009-06-20 16:14:46'
- author:
    name: Lefty
    picture: 117342
  body: "@Ed_Aranda: +1\r\n\r\nThere is a lot of progress since the first post. Illustration
    logo are very hard thing - if you're not an illustrator or specialist.\r\nThe
    other way is stylise more or less like DavM suggest it (very nice work from Hello
    Monday)\r\nThe last vector version the lion body seem too long.\r\n\r\nI don't
    know about lions, but dogs put tail downwards as sign of submission. i think the
    tail is bettet up.\r\nkeep working your comming closer to someting very nice."
  created: '2009-06-20 17:45:39'
- author:
    name: reinis
    picture: 117264
  body: Yeah, the length of the lion's torso really stands out. The mouth also looks
    somewhat like a beak. I guess I'm just reiterating what everyone has said, but
    that's what I thought before reading them too. Having a tail up looks more aggressive
    and therefore appropriate, and the neater mane in the sketch is also nicer.
  created: '2009-06-24 00:54:48'
date: '2009-05-24 06:42:04'
title: lanzallamas

---
