---
author:
  name: Lefty
  picture: 117342
body: "I've made this logo +10 years ago\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DFI_5925.jpg]\r\n\r\ni
  think it's gently getting old and i'm looking for a way to actualise it, not a major
  refoundry.\r\n\r\nAny suggestions ?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Lefty
    picture: 117342
  body: "I've tryed to modify the color use\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DFi01_5143.jpg]\r\n\r\nWhat
    do you think"
  created: '2009-05-24 16:40:54'
- author:
    name: zevbiz
    picture: 115672
  body: "The new fill doesn't make it look modern at all I'm afraid.\r\n\r\nI think
    it's time to redesign the logo."
  created: '2009-05-24 16:52:57'
- author:
    name: Lefty
    picture: 117342
  body: "i'm not sure the client will accept that. They've gone to a brand consulting
    company to ask if the redesign of the logo was necessary, the brand company say
    'no, the logo is still good, there is no need to redesign'. The company didn't
    ask me anything about the logo it is a personnal research. You can see the logo
    in context here  www.moovemail.com , a website (and logo and namefinding) i made
    for them last year.\r\n\r\nMaybe if i have enough opinion here about redesign
    needed i can show to the client.\r\n\r\nSo you can just vote if you please redesign
    or no redesign need? Now is One for redesing (zevbiz)."
  created: '2009-05-24 17:44:13'
- author:
    name: alexandracama
  body: 'This is all very subjective but I do like your use of colour in the second
    approach. If you can''t redesign at least you can change it''s relationship to
    its surrounding graphic elements. '
  created: '2009-05-24 17:57:39'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "The DF combination is quite good. I'd only change the \"i\" to make it more
    bold and more compatible with the first two letters. \"i\" also has a completely
    different angle than the first two letters.\r\n\r\nBut please keep colours as
    they are. You need a BW logo as well, so colour changes just won't do the trick,
    will they?\r\n___________\r\n<em>Robert Koritnik</em>"
  created: '2009-05-24 20:42:36'
- author:
    name: Lefty
    picture: 117342
  body: "so, point 1, The Shape. As i remembered, i italised more the i to make the
    logo more dynamic.\r\nAs suggested anyway, i made few changes. so there is 3 versions.\r\nthe
    first is the unchanged logo, the second i skew back the i to mach the DF and make
    it\r\na little bolder, the third is almost the same as the second, i a little
    more bolder, but i italised\r\nmore the whole logo. It's not perfect,but for opinion
    it's ok i guess.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DFi02_6593.jpg]\r\n\r\nso
    1, 2, or 3 ? (or 4 if you have a 4 in mind)\r\ntake your time."
  created: '2009-05-25 00:13:44'
- author:
    name: picard102
    picture: 112137
  body: '3 looks like it''s on the same angle as the rest. Though I think it still
    feels a bit disconected from the rest of it. '
  created: '2009-05-25 05:04:43'
- author:
    name: Lefty
    picture: 117342
  body: "i feels deconected, yep, let's try that, thx\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DFi03_6143.jpg]\r\n\r\nany
    thoughs ?"
  created: '2009-05-25 20:57:20'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "The second, but make F a bit wider, to complement D.\r\nDid you think of
    changing the bottom part of the \"i\"? I'm not suggesting you'll find some better
    solution, but maybe try exploring for...\r\n___________\r\n<em>Robert Koritnik</em>"
  created: '2009-05-25 21:24:47'
- author:
    name: Lefty
    picture: 117342
  body: "As suggested at logopond, i try with a simple 'i', but i'm no convinced at
    all, it loose to much. I have tryied other thing with the 'i', but nothing that
    worst showing here, i have to continue working on that.\r\n\r\nFor now the f wider,
    and i change on the second the bottom D part to make it more simple.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DFi04_5154.jpg]"
  created: '2009-05-25 21:37:31'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I wouldn't do that \"simplification\" of the \"D\" \u2013 it seems to become
    less legible. \r\nThe \"D\" has more curviness/tension in the top version in your
    latest post, and looks more like a \"D\".\r\nI like the curve on the \"i\", as
    it formally connects to the curve of the \"D\". \r\nMaybe it could relate to it
    even more? I might try making the \"i\" curve flatter / \r\nmore serious/subtle
    / less bouncy-happy. Also, have you played around with \r\nthe terminal: must
    it taper to a point, or could it be cut/sheared a bit like the bottom of the \"D\"?\r\nOh,
    and I'm not sure these suggestions would really make it better. \r\nJust thinking
    out loud."
  created: '2009-05-25 21:43:42'
- author:
    name: Lefty
    picture: 117342
  body: "<cite>Also, have you played around with the terminal: must it taper to a
    point, or could it be cut/sheared a bit like the bottom of the \u201CD\u201D?</site>\r\n\r\nSorry
    my english is not good enough, i don't understand this part, what do you mean
    by \"terminal\" and what means \"taper to a point\"\r\n:(\r\n\r\nI'm trying to
    make the end of the i less bouncy, but have technicals difficulties with that
    (plus secretly i like the bouncy-happy)\r\n\r\nYou're right about the D thing,
    it make it less legible, but i'm not sure it's big problem when you look globally
    at the logo.\r\nAnyway, thank very much for sharing your think."
  created: '2009-05-25 22:52:23'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Thierry, what's your language, French? I'll try to rephrase. Faut qu'on soit
    solidaires les Suisses, non :)
  created: '2009-05-25 23:50:42'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: I think you should experiment further with the colors as well. Obviously the
    logo should be good enough to work bw, but I think the different shades of blue
    had something going. Playing around with the colour palette on their website and
    in the other material might help bringing things up to date. I don't think the
    blue colour you're using is strong enough on it's own. Have you considered something
    to contrast the blue?
  created: '2009-05-26 01:48:20'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'And: the MOOVEMAIL thingy on the website, with wings on it, is that a part
    of the brand? '
  created: '2009-05-26 01:51:03'
- author:
    name: Lefty
    picture: 117342
  body: "@frode frank: Moovemail is a DFi product\r\n\r\n@altaira: Oui, c'est le fran\xE7ais,
    et tout \xE0 fait d'accord sur la solidarit\xE9 :))  J'attends avec impatience
    tes commentaire en fran\xE7ais, de ce que j'ai lu et compris de l'anglais, ils
    sont tr\xE8s pertinents. Par contre je ne sais pas si communiquer en fran\xE7ais
    sur ce site est mal vu ou non ? Si tu veux je peux te contacter par le biais de
    ton site."
  created: '2009-05-26 08:30:05'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Ah ben! Moi je viens de la partie allemande, et franchement mon fran\xE7ais
    n'est pas le meilleur, mais je vais essayer ! :-)\r\nJe crois que ce n'est pas
    \xAB mal vu \xBB d'utiliser les autres langues ; il y a aussi quelques gens ici
    qui parlent l'espagnol de temps en temps. La plus bonne raison pour \xE9crire
    en anglais, c'est tout simplement pour que la plupart des gens puissent comprendre
    ce que tu dis.\r\n\r\nDonc, ce que j'ai voulu dire auparavant, c'est que je me
    suis demand\xE9 si tu as essay\xE9 des diff\xE9rents id\xE9es pour \xAB terminer
    \xBB la partie basse de l'\xAB i \xBB ? Comme c'est actuellement pointu, je me
    suis demand\xE9 si \xE7a pourrait peut-\xEAtre \xEAtre li\xE9 \r\nau \xAB D \xBB
    un peu mieux si \xE7a serait \xAB coup\xE9 \xBB un peu comme le \xAB D \xBB ?
    \r\n(Mais comme je disais en haut, je ne suis pas du tout s\xFBre que \xE7a serait
    mieux, juste une question qui se posait \xE0 moi.)"
  created: '2009-05-26 09:53:59'
- author:
    name: Lefty
    picture: 117342
  body: "The 'i' less bouncy, and tryied another modification to the bottom 'D'\r\n--
    Work in progress --\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DFi05_5694.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DFi05b_6642.jpg]\r\n\r\n@altaira:
    Ton fran\xE7ais est tellement mieux que mon allemand :)) c'est une langue que
    je n'ai jamais r\xE9ussi \xE0 apprendre. Je vais regarder cette piste, donc le
    bas du i coup\xE9 comme le D, si j'ai bien compris. Ce forum est beaucoup mieux
    que Logopond - o\xF9 j'ai un compte - difficile d'avoir des opinions l\xE0-bas.En
    tout cas merci d'avoir pris le temps de consid\xE9rer le probl\xE8me.\r\n\r\nEDIT:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DFi05c_4580.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DFi05d_5072.jpg]"
  created: '2009-05-26 10:38:39'
- author:
    name: DavM
    picture: 111865
  body: "I like the last Fi pair. I don't like what you'r doing with the D that much.
    It kinda starts ressembling an upper case A chopped off or something strange.\r\n\r\nYou
    should try to curve it more instead."
  created: '2009-05-26 11:20:57'
- author:
    name: picard102
    picture: 112137
  body: 'I too like the last fi pair. '
  created: '2009-05-26 11:38:17'
- author:
    name: Lefty
    picture: 117342
  body: "Mmmmm more curve on the D, look nice, Thanks\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DFi05e_6577.jpg]"
  created: '2009-05-26 11:53:01'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: ":-) I'll switch back to English (takes a *lot* less time to write!)\u2026\r\n\r\nI
    must say I like the second \"i\" in your post of 2:38 am, with the little curve.
    It looks friendly and harmonious, but not too wild. Nice.\r\n\r\nThe new one is
    very spikey/sharp, and looks less friendly. Do you want that?\r\n\r\nJust to clarify,
    when I said \"cut the bottom of the 'i' like the 'D'\" I meant something like
    this:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dfi_shear_4667.jpg]\r\nOf course
    this looks really bad. But it might be a path to explore. Or maybe not. \r\nSorry
    for being unclear! :-\\"
  created: '2009-05-26 12:51:13'
- author:
    name: Lefty
    picture: 117342
  body: "oooh, now i see what you mean. i'll try that way too.\r\nI know the last
    verstion is much more aggressive, and i like the 2nd version of the 2:38am post
    too . I think, when this process will be over, i show these 2 logos, and some
    others like your idea, and they will choose if they want someting more aggressive
    or not, it is their role to choose, they know their market and their needs better
    than me."
  created: '2009-05-26 13:19:59'
- author:
    name: theplatypus
    picture: 115609
  body: "Just a thought... but the negative space within the D looks like a stylized
    silhouette of a head and neck minus a nose.  If this is a personnal research company...
    might be a fun addition...?\r\n\r\ndaniel"
  created: '2009-05-26 23:04:58'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: I like the pointy ending of the i in the second image of your may 26th post
    (with the 4 images). I also think you should try Nina's (altaira) idea.
  created: '2009-05-26 23:15:49'
- author:
    name: Lefty
    picture: 117342
  body: "@theplatypus:  The research is a personal projet, not the company. The objective
    is to show DFi a better version of the actual logo and convicing them to change.\r\n\r\nI
    have tryied altaira idea, with not much success, i will post them tomorrow, it's
    one o'clock in the morning here, i'm out of business, need to sleep."
  created: '2009-05-26 23:52:34'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "if it's a personal project with the objective of 'pitching' a redux to the
    client ... there's no reason (in my mind) that you wouldn't/couldn't push the
    redesign further than simply changing the colour and slightly adjusting the letter
    forms. that said it's a good execise I suppose.<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br
    />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic
    Designer</a> - Melbourne"
  created: '2009-05-27 03:17:35'
- author:
    name: Infernocloud
    picture: 117381
  body: "This one is looking better.\r\nhttp://typophile.com/files/DFi05b_6642.jpg\r\n\r\nI
    think the type could even be made a bit wider and it would help balance the logo.
    Also, if the terminal (the tail) of the \"i\" looked exactly the same as the bottom
    of the \"D\" it would be perfect. Basically take the very end of the \"D\" and
    then smooth it into the \"i.\" All the letters should be on the same baseline
    then.\r\n\r\n\r\n--\r\nWeb Design & Development, Interface Design, Graphic Design\r\ninfernocloud.com"
  created: '2009-05-27 03:46:38'
- author:
    name: Lefty
    picture: 117342
  body: "Hello everybody,\r\n\r\n@Ratbaggy: This post is going to be very long and
    some infos are lost. DFi doesn't want to change the brand or take the risk to
    loose the brand, if i go too far and make a logo too different, they will never
    accept it. But i'm in contact with the person in charge of graphic design at DFi
    and i give her the adress of this post and she's quite positive about where it
    is going. @infernocloud: The project you like is one of the favourtite.\r\n\r\n@altaira:
    i tried your idea and so far this is the best i could do, what do you think?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DFi05f_4188.jpg]"
  created: '2009-05-27 12:41:02'
- author:
    name: spark
    picture: 117319
  body: This is one of the hardest kinds of projects, and clients rarely realize how
    much time goes into making something look the same but different. I am troubled
    mostly by the shape of the D, the thin-ness of the top and bottom curves and the
    somewhat arbitrary counter space. Logically you seem to be relating it to the
    widths of the horizontal strokes on the F, but to me it feels weak, and it is
    the starting letter, so I think it should "break the rules" about proportion,
    and have more weight and possibly less curve in the upper left hand corner where
    it joins the stem.
  created: '2009-05-27 14:31:04'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I don't know about the others, but I like the direction this is going!\r\nThis
    is more harmonious, the other one with the spikey/straight \"i\" is more aggressive.
    Like you have said, the client will have to decide which impression they want
    the logo to make.\r\n\r\nLooking at your latest version, did you try to pull the
    upper point on the end of the \"i\" upwards a bit more, so as to echo the upwards
    motion/direction in the \"D\"? Something like this &ndash;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dfi2_3821.jpg]"
  created: '2009-05-27 14:33:47'
- author:
    name: Lefty
    picture: 117342
  body: "i will begin this post, to thanks you all for your comments and ideas, this
    is the most exciting experience i ever had, since i mostly work alone.\r\n\r\n@spark:
    hello there, so if i understand - with the help of google translate - you think
    that i should make the beginning of the D more square and the upper part and down
    part of the D more bold ? For white space and counter white space things, i admit
    it, i'm not the best at that - the fault at the fact i never did Art School and
    learn everthing by myself. I will try to put the logo on a grid, it may help me,
    because i mostly only work with what my eyes say.\r\n\r\n@altaira. glad you like
    it :) , i will try to hook up the end of the i, but i don't think i will have
    time until tomorow or late this night."
  created: '2009-05-27 15:15:11'
- author:
    name: Lefty
    picture: 117342
  body: "okay, 2 new version, with the new i (one is slightly shorter than the other,
    i mean the end of the i)\r\n\r\nas suggested by spark, but i'm not sure i understand
    well, i make the begining of the D more square, boldify the top and the bottom
    of the D (on the first one) but i think i like it more before.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DFi05e_5479.jpg]"
  created: '2009-05-27 21:08:47'
- author:
    name: spark
    picture: 117319
  body: I personally think your new top version of the D is much stronger. I like
    the thicker strokes and more square beginning, and the smaller white gap at the
    bottom.I have mixed feelings about the curving endings on the horizontal strokes
    of F--they are more integrated, creating a rhythm of white spaces, but they are
    also a little bit "tricky" or busy, and I'm not sure how well they will reproduce
    at tiny sizes. You might reduce this to its very smallest size and check that
    it still works. I definitely prefer the i you have in your last version, curving
    up at the end.
  created: '2009-05-27 23:47:25'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "had a little spare coffee time this morning so had a bit of a sketch\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dfi_6520.jpg]\r\n\r\njust
    throwing some stuff in the mix ... this would need work to make it work at smaller
    sizes.\r\n\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul
    Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic Designer</a>
    - Melbourne"
  created: '2009-05-27 23:50:05'
- author:
    name: ieattype
  body: "have you thought about changing the colour slightly?\r\nmaybe a darker or
    richer colour and slight ajustments like taking the dot out of the \"I\""
  created: '2009-05-28 00:14:10'
- author:
    name: spark
    picture: 117319
  body: This thread gives "design by committee" a whole new spin...
  created: '2009-05-28 01:27:31'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "not really. I don't think the brief is being/has been diluted.\r\nit's more
    like a type of brainstorming but then ... I guess it's all about how you look
    at it.\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic Designer</a> - Melbourne"
  created: '2009-05-28 02:09:48'
- author:
    name: Scalfin
    picture: 114154
  body: Maybe you could attach the dot of the i to the F wholesale, and then differentiate
    it with some subtle 3D or colouring effects. Maybe make it an empty circle.
  created: '2009-05-28 05:41:21'
- author:
    name: Lefty
    picture: 117342
  body: "Thanks everybody for this huge group brainstorming. I'm looking for a way
    to enhance the dot of the i but basically now the project is in the hands of my
    clients who will choose what to prensent to the big boss. I have no web site right
    now - i publish some of my work in logopond - i'm working on it, and i will make
    a special page to explain the particular process of this logo and mention all
    of you in here and this forum. If you want i use your full name instead of your
    screen name, mail me at   thierry(at)lefty(dot)ch\r\ni may post an article on
    a swiss-french web site who is more specialised on web 2.0 work/strategy but could
    be interested by the \"2.0\" process (www.professionweb.ch) , and again for people
    who wish, i can name them at the end of the article, just tell me by mail.\r\nThanks
    again for your enthusiasm to help on this project. Of course i will post the chosen
    result here, but it could take some weeks before the boss decide about a version,
    they are very slow on some thing, and - like every client i guess - then they
    want everything for yesterday after.\r\n\r\nbest regards, everybody\r\nthierry
    hefti\r\n\r\n@spark: more i see the bolder D, more i find it better.\r\n@Ratbaggy:
    thanks for your drawing, but i think the client will find it too much different
    globally, but as im still working on the i, I will try your suggestion for the
    dot."
  created: '2009-05-28 18:18:42'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Good luck Thierry.\r\nI don't know about the others, but I think if you just
    mention Typophile being helpful, that would be a nice thing to do (and enough
    for me)."
  created: '2009-05-28 22:20:45'
- author:
    name: spark
    picture: 117319
  body: "I agree with this previous post-- the Wiki effect, communal.But very thoughtful
    to offer direct links.\r\n\r\n\r\n\"I don\u2019t know about the others, but I
    think if you just mention Typophile being helpful, that would be a nice thing
    to do (and enough for me).\""
  created: '2009-05-28 22:42:04'
- author:
    name: Lefty
    picture: 117342
  body: "Ok, so i just mention typophile with a link to the site if that's ok with
    everybody.\r\nI'm going to make a font for DFi - this is my first one - based
    on product logo i did for them previously\r\nSo maybe we will cross road again
    in the font section.\r\n\r\n_||//"
  created: '2009-05-29 16:52:27'
- author:
    name: Lefty
    picture: 117342
  body: "hi everybody,\r\n\r\njust a post to tell you that DFi choose this version
    of the logo\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DFIp1_3553.jpg]\r\n\r\nThe
    reason why they didn't choose the cutted version of the 'i' is that non-designer
    people feel that it's missing a part and they\r\nprefer the 'jumpy' 'i' because
    it's more simpathetic. I'm still working on the logo, fine tuning the width of
    the F and the way the F interact with the dot of the 'i'.\r\n\r\nThe rejected
    projects:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DFIp2_6727.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/DFIp4_6111.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/DFIp5_4178.jpg]"
  created: '2009-06-26 13:06:26'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "well there you go.\r\n\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul
    Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic Designer</a>
    - Melbourne"
  created: '2009-06-28 23:48:51'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "They chose well.\r\n___________\r\n<em>Robert Koritnik</em>"
  created: '2009-06-29 22:10:54'
date: '2009-05-24 16:33:05'
node_type: forum
title: Trying to modernize a logo

---
