---
author:
  name: thomasv1
  picture: 113275
body: "I'm doing my Bachelor Thesis in English Language and Culture on the perception
  of typefaces. I intend to establish the existence and extent of the phenomenon that
  authority is transferred upon the reader through reading the font. So, by having
  the participants rate texts on authority, I intend to establish that serifs are
  more authoritative than sans serifs.\r\n\r\nSo, my question is, have you perhaps
  come across past research dealing with the subject of fonts and perception? Currently,
  I'm looking for any info I can get. Any websites, papers, journals... I'd love to
  hear from you.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\n\r\nThomas"
comments:
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "There have been some similar studies in the Psych journals. Sorry, but I
    can't remember the references. None get too deeply into type design (of the ones
    I have seen, they are often very basic character recognition studies.)\r\n\r\nThere
    is a good article on Bouma on the Microsoft site at http://www.microsoft.com/typography/ctfonts/WordRecognition.aspx\r\n\r\nYou
    might also want to look at the writings of Aries Arditi, many of which are available
    at http://www.lighthouse.org/research/current-research-studies/\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-27 16:48:47'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>So, by having the participants rate texts on authority, I intend to
    establish that serifs are more authoritative than sans serifs.</cite>\r\n\r\nMaybe
    I\u2019m just unfamiliar with the grammar of psych academia, but shouldn\u2019t
    you intend to determine whether or not a typeface with serifs can enhance the
    authoritative tone of text? And isn\u2019t authoritativeness a product of the
    nature of the text? Serifs may be able to enhance the credibility of an authoritative
    piece of writing in the context of a society where figures perceived as authorities
    tend to use serifs, but serifs are not able to, for example, impart authority
    to a comedy that is intended to have none."
  created: '2009-05-27 17:26:06'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@ Thomas: Sounds like an interesting study. This could make a great thread.
    Can you tell us a little more about yourself and your experimental design?\r\n\r\n1.
    How are you operationalizing the term \"authority\"\r\n2. How are you asking participants
    (Ss) to rate authority?\r\n3. Your independent variables (IV's) are typeface (serif
    and sans). Have you selected any? If so, which ones and why?\r\n4. What text are
    you having Ss read?\r\n5. What school do you go to?\r\n6. Who is supervising your
    study?\r\n7. Do you have any background in cognitive/experimental psychology?\r\n\r\nAs
    far as research goes, you need to get access to science journals and databases.
    PsychINFO and Web of Science are probably going to be of most use. If your school
    does not have access to them, I would strongly ask your supervisor/department
    head to find someone who does and put you in touch with them. Conducting a lit
    search without access to such databases &c is asking you to operate with a significant
    disadvantage. It is a <em>very</em> important skill to develop in the field of
    experimental psychology."
  created: '2009-05-27 18:13:35'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: In addition, how many Ss do you plan to run?
  created: '2009-05-27 19:41:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "This is a bad idea.\r\n\r\nTypefaces are not perceived, only documents.\r\n\r\nIt
    is the designer/typographer's task to match form with content, to create an authoritative
    document.\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-27 20:00:38'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "<em>I intend to establish that serifs are more authoritative than sans serifs</em>\r\n\r\nYou
    have arrived at your conclusion before you started :)"
  created: '2009-05-28 01:11:53'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Paragraph is correct. You should begin with a hypothesis.
  created: '2009-05-28 01:46:47'
- author:
    name: CameronWilliams
    picture: 117391
  body: "To James Puckett, Christopher Dean, Nick Shinn and paragraph: thank you.\r\n\r\nTo
    thomasv1: what sorts of serifs? Oldstyle, transitional, modern; cupped, bracketed
    or slab? What will be your methodology for making this decision? Will this study
    be double-blind? "
  created: '2009-05-28 02:00:18'
- author:
    name: thomasv1
    picture: 113275
  body: "My main approach will be to present the participants with four names (in
    different fonts) of lawyer firms, museums, or dictionaries, and have them rate
    them on authority. Of course, I will rotate the fonts used, in order to eliminate
    the possibility that one firm/museum/dictionary will have a better-sounding name.\r\n\r\n@Don
    McCahill: Thanks for the links!\r\n\r\n@James Puckett: You are correct. My phrasing
    of the problem is problematic, and because I am very much in the early stages,
    I will refine it later on.\r\n\r\n@Christopher Dean: (1) I haven't found any literature
    on that, so anything would be more than welcome.\r\n(2) I'll have the participants
    'assign' authority through rating the four firms/museums/dictionaries one to four,
    with one being most authoritative.\r\n(3) The typefaces will have to be representative
    of a real-world situation, so I will probably make a selection between Adobe Jensen
    Pro, a Libertine, Adobe Caslon, Georgia, Times New Roman, a Garamond, etc. Any
    suggestions, maybe?\r\n(4) As said, business logos. I will probably add a question
    asking the participants to rate a small paragraph of text, as well.\r\n(5) I go
    to St. Radboud's University in Nijmegen, the Netherlands (www.ru.nl).\r\n(6) M.J.
    van der Haagen.\r\n(7) No background. This is my first venture into the field
    of cognitive studies, which is why I'm looking to gather any information I possibly
    can. I have done a similar study on the effectiveness of adjectives in film descriptions.\r\n\r\n@Nick
    Shinn: Well, that's what I'm trying to find out, really; whether your statement
    is correct, or whether there's more to it than meets the eye.\r\n\r\n@CameronWilliams:
    The scope of the survey will not allow me to get to much into different categories,
    although I surely intend to highlight some fonts. Of course, the study will be
    double-blind.\r\n\r\n@Everyone: Thanks for the feedback."
  created: '2009-05-28 13:34:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>My main approach will be to present the participants with four names
    (in different fonts) of lawyer firms, museums, or dictionaries, and have them
    rate them on authority.</em>\r\n\r\nSo, there's no more to a corporate identity
    than picking a typeface?\r\nThat's bad news for the graphic design profession!"
  created: '2009-05-28 14:31:06'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "What about the difference in authority between the same font well- and poorly-spaced?
    Or in all caps vs title case? Or roman vs italic? Or colour? Or small caps...
    or... or...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bembosample_4461.JPG]\r\nSorry
    :-D\r\n________________________________________________\r\nEver since I chose
    to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2009-05-28 14:53:30'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "operationalizing\r\n\r\n?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2009-05-28 15:07:27'
- author:
    name: thomasv1
    picture: 113275
  body: "@Nick Shinn: You're absolutely right in pointing that out. Having only the
    name means I'm conducting the survey in an unrealistic environment (i.e. without
    the complete logo and the rest of the design choices), but my focus is on providing
    graphic designers with info on typographic decisions only. A survey always has
    a margin of error, because it simply cannot encompass the entirety of reality.
    Maybe I could replicate a logo or somehow attain a more realistic representation
    of a lawyer's office logo. Any help would be more than welcome.\r\n\r\n@dtw: Accounting
    for the scope of my thesis, I will be limited to using regular title case only."
  created: '2009-05-28 15:18:11'
- author:
    name: Pablo R
    picture: 116225
  body: "If you reefer to the expression of traditional lawyer firms, museums, and
    dictionaries corporate image, It probably has more to do with communicating a
    conservative, solemn, formal, serious or traditional personality than with authority.\r\n\r\nFor
    me authority would have more to do with power or respect. Like the army, the police
    or a stop sign.\r\n\r\nThe message is not just in the type but it is one of the
    ingredients of the expression.\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-28 15:19:28'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "@Will\r\n[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Operationalization|\"Operationalization\"]]
    really is a word, God help us. :-)"
  created: '2009-05-28 15:35:29'
- author:
    name: CameronWilliams
    picture: 117391
  body: "Perhaps Joseph Goebbels, arguably the greatest ad man of the twentieth century,
    did research on which Nazi propaganda posters were most effective; those using
    sans, fraktur, or serif faces. An outrageous and even offensive statement and
    suggestion; I know, but there may be some useful information there.\r\n\r\ndtw
    makes a very good point.\r\n\r\nPablo R also makes a very good point, especially
    in regard to stop signs. I'm sure various Departments of Transportation have information
    on which types used for road and warning signs have been most effective. Adrian
    Frutiger has also written extensively on this subject."
  created: '2009-05-28 16:00:37'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Reminds me of my grandma saying <em>speak like you eat.</em>\r\nYes, Thomas,
    we don't read fonts, we read words\u2014patterns of blacks and whites.\r\nNo piquing
    anyhow, knowing that you have such interest."
  created: '2009-05-28 16:04:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...my focus is on providing graphic designers with info on typographic
    decisions only.</em>\r\n\r\nReaders can't tell you that.\r\nAs Dave notes, the
    \"authority\" of a typeface will change with the way it's set.\r\nDepending on
    what a company symbol and page layout looks like, the same typeface may look dignified
    or silly, progressive or conservative.\r\n\r\nSymbolic forms such as letters and
    type have no absolute meaning, but only have meaning in relation to other symbols.\r\nFor
    the reader, these other symbols are the rest of the document at hand.\r\nHowever,
    for the designer, the realm of typographic significance is more abstract, and
    encompasses our knowledge of type culture: it is this meta-language we work with
    to create meaning for readers.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-28 16:40:47'
- author:
    name: thomasv1
    picture: 113275
  body: "@CameronWilliams: Thanks for your pointers.\r\n\r\n@Nick Shinn+Alessandro
    Segalini: I appreciate your vision. Your concerns of the survey not taking place
    in a realistic setting is entirely valid. I will discuss this further with my
    supervisor and reach a compromise between the scope of my thesis and its relevance
    as a completed paper."
  created: '2009-05-28 17:20:07'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "So, serif is more authoritative than sans?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/freeze_6439.png]"
  created: '2009-05-29 08:26:15'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: Paragraph, it seems like serif might be authoritative and sans authoritarian
    :)
  created: '2009-05-29 09:31:04'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Quite!
  created: '2009-05-29 10:49:26'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "I looked up operationalizing also.\r\n\r\nthomasav1\r\n\r\nI think the conditions
    of the experiment are much much more complex than you are anticipating.\r\n\r\n\"The
    timeline is between love and fear\u2026 \""
  created: '2009-05-31 10:19:13'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: What am I doing wrong with the quote marks?
  created: '2009-05-31 10:19:44'
- author:
    name: CameronWilliams
    picture: 117391
  body: "If you\u2019re on a Mac, type <em>option-left bracket</em> for an open quote,
    <em>option-shift-left bracket</em> for a close quote; on a PC, I believe you just
    substitute the alt key for the option key. But this sites\u2019 \"SmartyPants\"
    feature will let you type ASCII quotes and substitute the real ones reliably."
  created: '2009-05-31 13:33:30'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: (Except if you have a space before your intended end-quote.)
  created: '2009-05-31 13:51:20'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Or if 'you' prefer single ones.
  created: '2009-05-31 13:55:31'
- author:
    name: nora g
    picture: 113099
  body: "To open your mind the following book might be useful: Das Gesetz und seine
    visuellen Folgen/La loi et ses cons\xE9quences visuelles (German and french) edited
    by Ruedi Baur at Lars M\xFCller Publishers/Baden.\r\n\r\nAnd the link to Denis
    Pelli \u2013 Professor of Psychology and Neural Science: http://www.psych.nyu.edu/pelli/\r\nHe
    did a lot research on the topic of letter identification ... perhaps you can find
    something of interest here too."
  created: '2009-05-31 16:06:08'
- author:
    name: Ed_Aranda
    picture: 117416
  body: "@paragraph: Interesting demonstration. You hardly ever see serif fonts being
    used for government agencies, or law enforcement for that matter. But is the typeface
    itself communicating that authority, or are we conditioned to respond to that
    font in such a way because, through repeated exposure, we now associate it with
    the qualities and values represented by the Federal Bureau of Investigation? In
    other words, are those qualities imparted on the typeface by the context in which
    it is used, or is there something innate about that font that lends itself to
    communicate authority?\r\n\r\nI would venture to guess that government agencies
    choose sans serif fonts not because they communicate authority, but because many
    of them tend to be colder and less personal than many serif fonts. However, I
    may be way off.\r\n\r\nIt's going to be very difficult to generalize the findings
    of this study across all applications. If you will be using law firms, for example,
    I think that your conclusions, however significant, will only be applicable to
    law firms."
  created: '2009-05-31 16:57:21'
- author:
    name: CameronWilliams
    picture: 117391
  body: "@Ed_Aranda: <em>\u201CI would venture to guess that government agencies choose
    sans serif fonts not because they communicate authority, but because many of them
    tend to be colder and less personal than many serif fonts. However, I may be way
    off.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nI was once told by a non-designer boss that I <em>had</em>
    to use Helvetica, because it was the \u201Cindustry standard\u201D. Who knows
    where he got that idea; needless to say, I didn\u2019t work for him for very long.
    The choice may often be due to simple laziness, too."
  created: '2009-05-31 18:29:14'
- author:
    name: Thomas Levine
    picture: 112734
  body: "Thomas, before you can come up with a precise and useful experiment, you'll
    have to do a decent amount of background research, and this is what you asked
    for here. Nobody's really giving you many references, and this thread is becoming
    more brainstorming. I think this is partly because few rigorous studies in the
    area exist.\r\n\r\nIn order to study this, you'll probably want to review a bunch
    of existing documents and see how authoritative they seem to you and analyze their
    typography in general. You'll probably want to try to find old accounts of type
    too.\r\n\r\nI've had the same question as you but about small caps in particular.
    People seem to love them at my school, and I think it's because they look fancy
    and official to these people. (Long ago, I used to be one of them.) I read a lot
    about the history of small caps, but I'm stuck at figuring out exactly why this
    attitude came about. I think I'd have to find old letters to explain this."
  created: '2009-06-01 04:33:49'
- author:
    name: Del
    picture: 117419
  body: "\r\nCheck out political campaigns and the thought that goes into their design.
    \r\nTheir should be some good studies on what typefaces were used \r\nfor certain
    candidates and why.   "
  created: '2009-06-01 05:01:03'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Check out political campaigns and the thought that goes into their
    design.</cite>\r\n\r\nDon\u2019t. Politicians are notoriously inept when it comes
    to designs, and will gladly pick type and colors with no thinking and reject any
    thoughtful design that comes their way. I know political consultants who go through
    this over and over and it drives them nuts."
  created: '2009-06-01 05:32:19'
- author:
    name: chimerical
    picture: 111695
  body: "<cite>thomasv1: I intend to establish that serifs are more authoritative
    than sans serifs\r\nparagraph: You have arrived at your conclusion before you
    started :)\r\nChristopher Dean: Paragraph is correct. You should begin with a
    hypothesis.</cite>\r\n\r\nI agree with Paragraph. What happens if your research
    suggests the opposite - that sans-serifs are actually more authoritative than
    serifs? Do we defend serifs anyway? The only way in that case would be to purposely
    only seek and present data that supports the serifs argument. I hadn't noticed
    that a lot of us tend to fall into this trap of making up our minds before we've
    begun (including myself) until a professor pointed it out. Interesting thesis
    by the way!"
  created: '2009-06-01 12:29:17'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Observer-expectancy_effect|Observer expectancy
    effect]]. This is why it's risky to start with a bias. Solution = have a research
    assistant who does not know what your hypothesis is run Ss.\r\n\r\nIn order to
    conduct research like this you will probably need support from a supervisor with
    a strong background in experimental psychology to help you, and the equivalent
    of a second year psychology course (usually called Psych 2000), some stats and
    a few labs. If you plan on being published in a peer-review journal as opposed
    to a design magazine &c you may need to go through ethics approval (nightmare)
    as you're using human Ss. \r\n\r\n@ Thomas: I encourage you to explore this as
    I believe scientific research of this nature is an important part of the future
    of our professions.\r\n\r\n@ chimerical: <em>What happens if your research suggests
    the opposite?</em>. You raise a good point. A [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Null-hypothesis|null
    hypothesis]]. This is where the math starts to get tricky."
  created: '2009-06-01 16:08:20'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Correction. Null = no effect. I misread chimerical.
  created: '2009-06-01 16:27:19'
- author:
    name: Pablo R
    picture: 116225
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/stop_4515.jpg]\r\n\r\nFirst we would
    have to define what kind of authority we refer to.\r\n\r\nThe actual message is
    not in the sum of elements but in the way they interact.\r\n\r\nMX > BCN"
  created: '2009-06-01 17:15:31'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>First we would have to define what kind of authority we refer to.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis
    is why I suggested that the experiments explore how typeface choice affects the
    credibility of a message perceived to have authority rather than assume that a
    typeface imparts authority directly. To further your example, a stop sign is both
    authoritative and a warning that one obeys for the sake of self-preservation.
    Using a wispy serif, or even comic sans, probably has no more impact on the credibility
    of the message than a heavy sans, because most people still don\u2019t desire
    to blow through an intersection and get sideswiped by a truck. But I\u2019m not
    sure that this would be the case with highway signs restricting carpool lanes
    to a car with three occupants\u2014in that case drivers are already resentful
    of the authority behind the sign and its policies, and a break with the sans norm
    might discredit the message and lead to it being ignored. And of course this is
    all culturally relative!"
  created: '2009-06-01 18:08:19'
- author:
    name: Pablo R
    picture: 116225
  body: "Exactly James, not very sure about the carpool.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture-8_5544.jpg]"
  created: '2009-06-01 18:16:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/trabi-horse_5332.jpg]\r\nI'm thinking
    some kind of a grunge script..."
  created: '2009-06-01 18:59:09'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "Both the FBI and Stop sign examples were what I thought of first as well.
    Type as voice is important, but as Nick points out: context is everything.\r\n\r\nI
    think that the comparison of serif vs sans would work best with words that are
    out of context or are perhaps not even words. Would \"glakbp\" be more authoritative
    in Times or Arial? But then we run into the other big problem: which serif and
    which sans? Perhaps a family with both, such as Meta and Meta Serif or Scala and
    Scala Sans (to name two), would help to minimize the problem? Unfortunately, serif
    type and sans serif type both come in 1,000s of variations. So, really, your study
    would be dealing with one serif style vs. one sans serif style. I don't think
    you can make a definitive distinction with such broad terms.\r\n\r\nI suspect,
    as I think many others here do, that this study is subject to so many fluid cultural
    factors that the data would only really be valuable as a continuum of samples
    taken regularly over an extended period of time and in multiple geographic locations.
    Many of us here are designers and we all have robust toolkits for manipulating
    perception that could probably subvert the outcomes of the study pretty easily.
    In eliminating the variables designers use to inject meaning and provide context
    to content, you would be removing the study so far from the reality of type as
    it's used, that I'm not sure if the data would yield information of much value
    beyond an extremely narrow case.\r\n\r\nI'm happy to hear that you're interested
    in examining type's effects, but I think a further refinement of the study's parameters
    is in order. I recommend that you educate yourself about type, then pick the aspects
    you want to study. I believe serif vs. sans is simultaneously too granular and
    too broad to allow for conclusive and meaningful results, because type performs
    such a unique role in the world."
  created: '2009-06-01 19:28:42'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "It occurred to me that Kai Bernau\u2019s thesis about his Neutral typeface
    is somewhat relevant. <a href=\"http://letterlabor.de/book.php\">Check out the
    PDF and consider ordering a copy of the book.</a>"
  created: '2009-06-01 19:43:41'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@ Puckett: Nice link\r\n\r\nTo help get the ball rolling\u2026\r\n[[http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/authority|Authority]]\r\n[[http://www.google.ca/search?hl=en&client=firefox-a&rls=org.mozilla:en-US:official&hs=pME&defl=en&q=define:authority&ei=QDgkSoKqHY2-Mqf80a8J&sa=X&oi=glossary_definition&ct=title|Authotiry]]\r\n[[http://www.websters-online-dictionary.org/definition/authority|Authority]]\r\n[[http://www.askoxford.com/results/?view=dict&freesearch=authority&branch=13842570&textsearchtype=exact|Authority]]\r\n[[http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=authority|Authority]]\r\n[[http://thesaurus.reference.com/browse/authority|Authority]]"
  created: '2009-06-01 21:25:29'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Nick is right, context is everything:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cuddly_4816.png]"
  created: '2009-06-02 00:54:18'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Funny, I always thought that generally, authority is conveyed by capitals.
    The 'serif' or 'sans' choice influences my perception of who this authority might
    be. \r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2009-06-02 09:04:25'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "The stop and similar graphics are a little beyond what the OP is aiming at.
    Sure bold will be more authoritative than hairline. But when other typographic
    features are similar, does the serif lead to a more authoritative impression from
    viewers.\r\n\r\nI suggest that matching faces could be used. For instance Lubalin
    Graph and Avant Garde, where serifs are the key differences. And many other families
    have been made with serif and sans that otherwise complement.\r\n\r\nNo wonder
    there is such a dearth of true scientific study done on type ... typographers
    keep rolling the question into opinion."
  created: '2009-06-02 13:33:35'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/policeman_ballerina_5637.jpg]\r\n\r\nAnd
    we still haven't operationalized our primary DV. Until we do, this is conversation
    is mostly intellectual (and entertaining).\r\n\r\n@ Thomas: Check out [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scientific_method|scientific
    method]]."
  created: '2009-06-02 15:24:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I recall c.1980 working on various accounts.\r\nSome were industrial business-to-business
    advertisers, and for those one used Helvetica, Futura, Univers, Franklin Gothic...\r\nOn
    the other hand, for the National Ballet of Canada, classic serifed faces such
    as Bodoni, Garamond, Goudy, and the then new Pontifex.\r\nNow, the corporate face
    of the National Ballet is Helvetica 55.\r\n\r\nAlso back then, typeface choice
    was considered to be an important element of brand differentiation, so at the
    typical small-town intersection there would be a bank on each corner, each with
    a different corporate face: Century Oldstyle (National Trust), Palatino (CIBC),
    Plantin (Scotiabank), etc. Now all the banks here apparently use Frutiger/Myriad.\r\n\r\nSo,
    as a cultural study (rather than an ill-conceived quiz posing as meaningful research),
    it appears that this is a complex issue involving time and place.\r\n\r\nWhy is
    it that 30 years ago art directors considered a variety of serifed faces suitable
    for bank advertising, and now a homogenous sans?\r\nIs type choice a decision
    of clients, creative directors (with an eye on status/awards within the creative
    metaculture), or an accurate reflection of what consumers best respond to?\r\n\r\nAll
    of the above, in a dynamically evolving system with multiple feedback loops, an
    element of chance and perhaps some technological determinism.\r\n\r\nThis proposed
    research may be useful as a snapshot, to compare with future snapshots, but IMO
    a cultural study should study culture, not masquerade as science, because the
    only way behavioral science is of any use to creative design is in product development.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-02 17:24:58'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '@ Shinn: You raise some good points. Especially cultural. I think it may
    be possible to take this into account by controlling the population of participants
    (age, language, ethnicity, vision &c) but this would lower this studies [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ecological_validity|ecological
    validity]]. A trade-off in experimental research should you wish your results
    to be reproducible.'
  created: '2009-06-02 18:15:21'
- author:
    name: thomasv1
    picture: 113275
  body: "Thanks for engaging in the discussion and in doing so, providing me with
    things to consider.\r\n\r\nI've decided on defining authority/status as a construct
    made up of believability (not credible/credible, not convincing/convincing, etc.),
    expertise (unskilled/skilled, unknowledgeable/knowledgeable, etc.), and trustworthiness
    (unreliable/reliable, untrustworthy/trustworthy, etc.). Participants will be questioned
    on their perception of the author of the text, one group receiving a serif version,
    the other a sans serif. I haven't decided on the content of the text itself, but
    it will be about half a page in length, as opposed to my earlier idea of doing
    law firms, etc."
  created: '2009-06-03 12:30:46'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Thomas, in a body text context a serif is the traditional winner. Convention
    and legibility should not be confused with authority. How many books or newspapers
    in the world are set in sans serif?
  created: '2009-06-03 13:15:55'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '@ Thomas: Excellent breakthrough. A [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Semantic_differential_scale|semantic
    differential scale]]. Well done.'
  created: '2009-06-03 15:34:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Claude Hopkins used couponing to optimize the performance of direct-mail
    advertisements:\r\nhttp://www.geocities.com/MadisonAvenue/Boardroom/4124/\r\nBut
    he was just fine-tuning text, not type choice.\r\n\r\nColin Weildon conducted
    similar experiments with typographic parameters:\r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/Type-Layout-Communicating-Making-Pretty/dp/1875750223"
  created: '2009-06-03 15:56:33'
- author:
    name: thomasv1
    picture: 113275
  body: Considering the sample group consists of university students, one could envision
    the group perceiving serifs as opposed to sans-serifs to be more authoritative.
    The group is primarily familiar with that category from school text books, journals,
    and news papers, whereas they encounter sans-serifs in more informal settings,
    such as the internet, magazines and other mediums that to them might appear to
    have less substance or authority.
  created: '2009-06-04 11:51:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Here's an idea:\r\nGet a professor to send out an invitation to students
    to attend an optional seminar. Half the students receive the message in sans,
    half in serif.\r\nThen see which message generates the best attendance.\r\nThat
    would be a better indication of authority than self-reporting a perception."
  created: '2009-06-04 14:25:03'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@ Shinn: A good example of a study with high ecological/external validity,
    but less internal validity, in that it would be difficult to reproduce and draw
    conclusions due to confound variables such as time of day, who the instructor
    is, what the class is &c, however, this would be so easy to do, I think it a fantastic
    idea. You could gather data from 100+ Ss in less than an hour, and material prep
    would be a snap. In experimental psychology, we call experiments like this \"paper
    and pencil\" which are great as they are easy to set up.\r\n\r\n@ Thomas: This
    could <em>easily</em> be part of your study. I say do it. Shouldn't take less
    than a week an you can simply add it to your manuscript as an appendix or make
    it a multi-experiment study."
  created: '2009-06-05 06:00:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "But how do you make sure that the design of the test document isn't biased
    towards either sans or serif?\r\n\"What designers do\" is to harmonize and optimize
    all the variables in a design.\r\nReal designers don't design documents where
    type style may be changed willy-nilly: you change one thing, everything changes.\r\nSo
    Thomas, could you produce a page design for a real-world document, such as an
    invitation to a seminar, where the text type may be changed from serif to sans
    or vice versa, without skewing the effectiveness of the document?\r\nAnd bear
    in mind that the majority of design work, such as Typophile, for instance, mixes
    serif and sans.\r\nSo consider the relative \"authority\" of say, a serif body
    face, when combined with either a sans or serif headline.\r\nThe tonality of the
    piece as a whole, and by extension, the effectiveness of the body type, depends
    on the relationship between the elements. \r\nA page with serif body text makes
    quite a different impression depending on whether the headline is set in serif
    or sans.\r\nAlso, should the headline be light or bold weight?\r\nAnd to measure
    the effectiveness of a document with only body text is irrelevant.\r\nAs I said
    before, people don't read typefaces, they read documents.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-05 16:45:43'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@ Shinn: You raise some more good points. Do you have a background in experimental
    psychology? It has been my experience that most designers \"shoot from the hip\"
    and are somewhat resistant to a structured scientific approach to problem solving.\r\n\r\n@
    Thomas: Look into [[http://davidmlane.com/hyperstat/A128919.html|counterbalancing]]."
  created: '2009-06-05 21:02:05'
- author:
    name: Ed_Aranda
    picture: 117416
  body: "<cite>Here\u2019s an idea:\r\nGet a professor to send out an invitation to
    students to attend an optional seminar. Half the students receive the message
    in sans, half in serif.\r\nThen see which message generates the best attendance.\r\nThat
    would be a better indication of authority than self-reporting a perception.</cite>\r\n\r\nVery
    cool idea. But, as Christopher pointed out, a correlation wouldn't have internal
    validity unless you are able to control for all possible confounding variables.
    There are so many other reasons that a student might attend or not attend a seminar.
    Even if results are statistically significant, it would be foolish to assume causation.\r\n\r\nYou
    know, there is a significant negative relationship between greenhouse gas saturation
    in the atmosphere and the number of active pirates. So one can only assume that
    CO2 killed off the pirates! =P"
  created: '2009-06-05 21:19:37'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@ Aranda: \"<em>You know, there is a significant negative relationship between
    greenhouse gas saturation in the atmosphere and the number of active pirates.
    So one can only assume that CO2 killed off the pirates!</em>\"\r\n\r\nOne of the
    better metaphors for [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tautology_(logic)|tautology]]
    I've heard in a while."
  created: '2009-06-05 23:57:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Do you have a background in experimental psychology?</em>\r\n\r\nNo.
    I used to work in advertising, so I have some experience with market research
    and working with focus groups--for developing advertising campaigns, not products.\r\n\r\n<em>It
    has been my experience that most designers \u201Cshoot from the hip\u201D and
    are somewhat resistant to a structured scientific approach to problem solving.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    because they are designers, not artists or scientists.\r\nI'm not quite sure what
    you mean by a scientific approach to problem solving, but it sounds like the kind
    of thing which would kill a designer's creativity, resulting in boring, unappealing
    design. \r\nIt's not true that the process of graphic design is unstructured--you
    can't study design at college for several years, learning the institutional methodology,
    then work in an industry with a vast ecology of trade practices, and be a wild
    creative genius--although we do like to promote the myth.\r\nWhat a designer needs
    is good taste, an eye for detail, and a sense of which way the cultural wind is
    blowing.\r\nThese are not qualities that can be understood by scientific principle.\r\n\r\nMr
    Dean, how can science be used to develop good taste?\r\n\r\nFirst, quantify what
    people like, then give it to them?\r\nBy the time you do that, they will have
    moved on.\r\nSo how do you give them what they <em>will</em> like?\r\nHow do you
    decide when a particular market will become jaded by a certain look, and embrace
    the pendulum's swing?\r\nWhen to switch from this:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/JBtakemeon_5880.jpg]\r\nto
    this:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/jonasbrothersalbum-thumb_5195.jpg]\r\n\r\nCorrect
    me if I'm wrong, but conventional wisdom would seem to dictate that sepia-toned
    photography, combined with a logo and name that look like they came from a 19th
    century Savile Row outfitter, and text set in a classic serif typeface (even more
    prominent in the poster for the new CD) would not be \"authoritative\" with teenage
    girls!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-06 01:33:43'
- author:
    name: johnnydib
    picture: 116018
  body: "Well soon after Kyoto and the action taken by some governments to cut CO2
    emissions piracy is increasing again in the red sea.\r\n\r\nNick Shinn makes excellent
    points."
  created: '2009-06-06 01:38:02'
- author:
    name: Ed_Aranda
    picture: 117416
  body: "<cite>Well soon after Kyoto and the action taken by some governments to cut
    CO2 emissions piracy is increasing again in the red sea.<cite>\r\n\r\nExactly.
    Negative relationship. We have to find the proper balance of piracy and pollution.\r\n\r\n\r\n[Edit]\r\nYes,
    Nick Shin does make good points. I think there's a lot more intuition involved
    in staying \"ahead of the curve\" than there is science."
  created: '2009-06-06 02:12:24'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "<em>there is a significant negative relationship between greenhouse gas saturation
    in the atmosphere and the number of active pirates. So one can only assume that
    CO2 killed off the pirates</em>\r\n\r\nThat looks more like a causative fallacy
    to me, rather than tautology, sorry."
  created: '2009-06-06 08:36:17'
- author:
    name: Ed_Aranda
    picture: 117416
  body: I don't really see how that is tautology either, but wikipedia's page on tautology
    was very interesting, thanks!
  created: '2009-06-06 15:45:14'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Christie, J., Klein, R., Waters, C. (2004). A comparison of simple hierarchy
    and grid metaphors for option layouts on small-size screens. <em>International
    Journal of Human-Computer Studies (60)</em> 564\u2013584.\r\n \r\nA simple study
    that shows while users preferred one design, they actually performed better on
    the one they didn't like. If all we did was give people what they liked (gasoline,
    hamburgers, sneakers, teen-porn), we'd live in a socially warped world at war
    with a completely devastated economy and environment\u2026\r\n\r\nI don't know
    how to define \"good taste\" and if \"staying ahead of the curve\" means figuring
    out clever new ways to sell more boy-band albums to teenage girls, then I'd rather
    step aside.\r\n\r\n[[http://www.questia.com/library/book/origins-of-functionalist-theory-by-edward-robert-de-zurko.jsp|De
    Zurco, E. R. (1957), <em>The origins of functionalist theory</em>, Colombia University
    Press]] talks a great deal about various ways to define beauty. A good read."
  created: '2009-06-06 22:59:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I don\u2019t know how to define \u201Cgood taste\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nIn
    typography it can be taught, and learnt through practice.\r\nGood taste is instrumental
    in designing a document which is appealing, a pleasure to read, and communicates
    well--qualities which people like when they're reading--hardly the cause of Armageddon.\r\n\r\nThat's
    not to say that good taste is a fixed set of preferences, rather, it's a discriminating
    eye.\r\nSo a group of designers may all have good taste, but their tastes will
    vary amongst one another, and over time.\r\n\r\n\r\n<em>...if \u201Cstaying ahead
    of the curve\u201D means figuring out clever new ways to sell more boy-band albums
    to teenage girls...</em>\r\n\r\nThat's exactly what it means, it's how graphic
    designers make a living.\r\nFrom clients who want clever new ways to sell more
    of a particular product or service to a particular target market.\r\nThe nature
    of the product and market is immaterial, although professional bodies do have
    standards which draw the line against certain practices--though not against designing
    for boy-bands.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-07 08:28:09'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: Sorry Charlie. StarKist doesn't want tuna with good taste, StarKist wants
    tuna that tastes good.
  created: '2009-06-07 12:25:10'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "\u2026good taste can be taught\u2026?\r\n\r\nWho's taste? Hitler? Ghandi?
    Bush? Gore?"
  created: '2009-06-07 17:56:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "No, as I said, good taste is not a fixed set of preferences (to be downloaded
    from master to pupil).\r\nThe idea is to help each student develop his/her own
    taste.\r\n\r\nThis is very different from your agenda, which is to use science
    to find the reader's hot button, and transform the job of creative graphic designer
    into a mouse jockey whose main job is to push that button."
  created: '2009-06-07 19:16:32'
- author:
    name: Ed_Aranda
    picture: 117416
  body: I think the answer to this debate is, like the answer to most things in the
    world, to strike a balance between science and intuition. Using scientifically
    gathered information to guide your intuition as an artist/advertiser/designer
    would be ideal. Because great execution without sound strategy is as useless as
    the poor execution of a great strategy.
  created: '2009-06-07 23:39:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Graphic design is a form of reason, not intuition.\r\nScience, of course,
    is also a form of reason, somewhat different.\r\nThe answer, to those who would
    apply scientific reason where it does not belong, is not compromise.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-08 00:43:08'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "<em>\u2026to those who would apply scientific reason where it does not belong\u2026</em>\r\n\r\n1.
    Who decides where scientific reason does and does not belong?\r\n2. Where does
    scientific reason not/belong?\r\n\r\nThis debate reminds me of [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charles_darwin|a
    guy I read about]]\u2026"
  created: '2009-06-08 02:28:14'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Erratum:\r\n\r\nChristie, J., Klein, R., Waters, C. (2004). A comparison
    of simple hierarchy and grid metaphors for option layouts on small-size screens.
    <em>International Journal of Human-Computer Studies (60)</em> 564\u2013584."
  created: '2009-06-08 02:33:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Chris, don't be so sure the good guys are on your side and not the quacks.\r\nEver
    hear of <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cyril_Burt\">this fellow</a>, and
    his <em>Psychological Study of Typography</em>?\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-08 02:50:35'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Yes I have, but not that work specifically. I'll definitely put it on my reading
    list. A lot of good science comes from reviewing other researcher's work and attempting
    to improve upon it. Thanks for the reference.
  created: '2009-06-08 03:13:28'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: I have another <a href="http://www.wwnorton.com/catalog/spring96/031425.htm">book</a>
    for you to read, Chris, as you seem to think that from-the-hip shooting (and a
    lot of other sins) are limited to designers, whereas budding scientists are righteous
    and their motives are as pure as fallen snow.
  created: '2009-06-08 11:08:51'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "I think what Nick means by \"teaching good taste\" is refining one's senses
    -- \"good taste\" not as in \"X tastes better than Y\", but as in \"I can now
    better differentiate the taste between X and Y than I could before\".\r\n\r\nAnd
    yes, the latter is absolutely teachable, while the former isn't and shouldn't
    ever be attempted. But as soon as people gain the ability to differentiate, a
    common sense of what's good and what's not will automatically arise, as well as
    of what's comparable and what's not."
  created: '2009-06-08 14:07:15'
- author:
    name: Ed_Aranda
    picture: 117416
  body: "<cite>Graphic design is a form of reason, not intuition.</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm
    going to have to respectfully disagree with this statement. Graphic design cannot
    be summed up that simply. Yes, part of being a good designer is using sound reason,
    but there is a much larger, intangible part that is intuitive by nature. I find
    that good reason can be taught, but artistic intuition is something you are either
    born with, or not. Maybe intuition is the wrong word. I define artistic intuition
    as a quality analogous to raw intelligence\u2013like IQ. It is at the core of
    an artist's style and can be seen in the conceptual scope and vision of the artist,
    rather than in the execution of a particular technique. It's easy to see this
    in music. Bob Dylan, Neil Young, Kurt Cobain to name a few obvious examples. None
    of these musicians were particularly polished or accomplished vocalists or instrumentalists,
    yet they possessed unique artistic vision, taste and intangible sense of balance
    and proportion that allowed them to create something wonderful, despite their
    technical shortcomings. I don't think that had anything to do with conscious reasoning.\r\n\r\n[Edit]\r\nIt's
    imagination. You simply can't <em>teach</em> imagination."
  created: '2009-06-08 21:25:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Graphic design cannot be summed up that simply.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't see
    why not.\r\nAfter all, \"Scientific Reason\" is well established, and equally
    simple.\r\n\r\nWhat has intuition got to do with graphic design?\r\nIntuition
    is without reason, yet design is problem solving.\r\nHow can a problem be solved
    without reason?\r\nYou think about the problem, you think of a solution to it--and
    that's not reasoning?!\r\n\r\nI don't buy the \"born genius\" argument.\r\nWhat
    about the 10,000 hours?\r\nAnd please, don't diss Shakey's axe-work!\r\n\r\nThose
    who don't understand how something has been done often assume that it's magical
    or intuitive, and that's how a lot of people consider graphic design, eg \"shooting
    from the hip\".\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-08 22:31:49'
- author:
    name: Ed_Aranda
    picture: 117416
  body: "<cite>I don\u2019t buy the \u201Cborn genius\u201D argument.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    don't think it's \"born genius\", so much as it is born with a certain capacity
    for creating art. Is this turning into a nature vs. nurture argument?\r\n\r\n<cite>Those
    who don\u2019t understand how something has been done often assume that it\u2019s
    magical or intuitive, and that\u2019s how a lot of people consider graphic design,
    eg \u201Cshooting from the hip\u201D.</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm not saying that hard work
    and education doesn't pay off. And I'm not saying that graphic design is without
    reason. I am only saying that some people are born without much capacity to be
    creative. Some people are simply born with limited imagination, and will never
    be able to make great art, no matter how hard they try. \r\n\r\nI'm <strong>far</strong>
    from being a genius; but I believe that when I'm inspired, I am a better designer
    and artist than your average person (as are most of us on this forum). And for
    all the reason and logic and problem-solving that goes into the design process,
    I <cite>know</cite> that there is an aspect unexplained by reason \u2013 something
    that just clicks when inspiration hits. It feels as if the answer is presented
    to us and all the puzzle pieces fall into place. The ability to start with a raw
    <em>feeling or emotion</em> and turn it into something you can see/touch/taste/smell/hear
    can be explained by reason, but the origin of that feeling to me is unreasonable.
    \r\n\r\nNo diss intended. I'm totally down with Shakey's axe!"
  created: '2009-06-08 22:58:26'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: On the "born genius" question, I think Elizabeth Gilbert's TED talk is brilliant
    and inspiring. [[http://www.ted.com/talks/elizabeth_gilbert_on_genius.html|link]]
  created: '2009-06-08 23:12:13'
- author:
    name: Ed_Aranda
    picture: 117416
  body: That was a brilliant speech. And funny too.
  created: '2009-06-08 23:46:09'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "True to me, <em>\u2018graphic design is a form of reason, not intuition,\u2019</em>
    indeed intuition should be supported by experience, i.e., a throughout practice
    and the use of hands. People with good taste shall keep in mind that writing is
    the base of communication design, and that a great idea isn't necessarily visual
    \u2014 it can be put into words. (The latter may refer to the very beginning of
    graphic design I saw in the works of a \u2018serif designer\u2019 such as G.B.
    Bodoni). Looking for a beautiful theory ?"
  created: '2009-06-10 06:41:20'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Science can do three things for our profession:\r\n\r\n1. Add new knowledge
    (needs no explanation)\r\n\r\n2. Support some of our conventions, traditions,
    intuitions &c with scientific reasoning and empirical data which only adds strength
    to our position. Just one more reason to say \"that's why this is 'good typography'.\"
    Not the only reason. Please note, I said \"support\" not prove.\r\n\r\n3. Refute
    some of our conventions in a similar fashion, which could perhaps help us redirect
    our focus and resources onto other areas (be they typographic or horticultural)
    that could provide us and our clients a greater return on investment. Again, I
    said \"refute\" not disprove."
  created: '2009-06-10 14:59:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>1. Add new knowledge (needs no explanation)</em>\r\n\r\nThat's doubtful.\r\nThe
    science of reading is fascinating, and may spark new design directions, but the
    use people want from it, such as \"this typeface is 5% more effective than that
    typeface\", can never be a scientific proposition, or a practical benefit.\r\nSo
    far all I've ever come across from the science of reading is completely useless
    to practice.\r\nSometimes it's the \"discovery\" of something very basic that
    is well know to typographers, but generally it's along the lines of Pauli's \"That's
    not even wrong\", such as the Song & Schwartz assertion that Arial is better than
    Mistral for recipe instructions.\r\n\r\n<em>2. Support some of our conventions,
    traditions, intuitions &c with scientific reasoning and empirical data which only
    adds strength to our position</em>\r\n\r\nIt might seem that a \"scientific\"
    rationale could help the professional esteem of graphic designers, art directors,
    and typographers, but the opposite would occur, as technicians and \"smart\" software
    would derogate true design thinking.\r\n\r\n<em>3. Refute some of our conventions</em>\r\n\r\nIf
    it can't support, it can't refute.\r\n\r\nThere IS a place for scientific methodology
    in the practice of design.\r\nIn product development, and in market research.\r\nBut
    in both cases, science cannot prescribe what a design will be, it can only test
    the efficacy of a particular design against a specific set of parameters.\r\n\r\nIn
    product development (for typefaces), there is no need for lab-testing of typefaces,
    because the market soon enough determines what works. I've used focus groups in
    the development of newpaper type, to help choose between different possibilities,
    but that's as scientific as it's got, I can't imagine more thorough statisitical
    research fitting into a commission workflow.\r\n\r\nMicrosoft had the opportunity
    in typeface development to use lab testing to refine the ClearType faces, but
    AFAIK did not, instead merely using testing post facto to justify design decisions.
    The same has happened with various \"typefaces for the reading challenged\" projects:
    what happens is that someone with little or no experience in type design gets
    a grant to develop a typeface for, say, dyslexic readers, then they develop a
    typeface according to their theory of how people read, but they never test existing
    designs against their theory, or against their new design. And then well-meaning
    NGOs or government agencies will use or mandate the typeface, instead of far better
    typefaces from established commercial foundries. This short-changes everybody.\r\n\r\nMarket
    research has been used for consumer products for at least 100 years. Daniel Starch
    was a pioneer. It began, early in the era of mass-market consumer culture, with
    the idea that science could be used to produce more effective \"salesmanship in
    print\"--but the scientific method has made no further inroad into the art of
    selling. However, scientists are nothing if not confident, and the latest generation
    of scientists always thinks it can do a better job than previous, that we are
    just on the doorstep of understanding how everything works. But that's a fallacy,
    as any philosophical critique of scientific reason will point out.\r\n\r\nFinally,
    I would say that the \"better reading through science\" agenda is not legitimate
    science, but scientism and quackery, and this is why it deserves debunking.\r\nThe
    scientific study of reading, in the realm of neuroscience and social psychology,
    is entirely worthy, but beyond that, science can never be of prescriptive use
    to typographers, and is counter-productive to the true nature of typography and
    the work of typographers.\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-10 17:23:06'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '@ Shinn: You raise a lot of points. Before we addresses them, how do <em>you</em>
    define "typographer?"'
  created: '2009-06-11 13:42:06'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"I would say that the \u201Cbetter reading through science\u201D agenda
    is not legitimate science, but scientism and quackery\"</cite>\r\nNick, would
    you care to elaborate why you say this?\r\n\r\nFWIW, to throw in a different angle:
    I would suspect the problem is just that most scientists and most typographers/type
    designers, respectively, live in different worlds; yes, they don't ask the same
    questions, in fact they often don't speak the same language, they don't understand
    each other. But that doesn't mean they can't, or couldn't, ever. \r\n\r\nIn the
    end, if science researches the very processes that we as graphic designers / typographers
    / type designers address and rely on &ndash; the nature of how humans see, perceive,
    and <em>read</em> &ndash;, don't we <em>need</em> to be interested in that? \r\nAnd
    if they research it in ways that we find inappropriate or pointless from our angle;
    if they ask questions we don't find relevant; if they lack knowledge we could
    provide (and maybe don't even realize), shouldn't we try to step up to them and
    communicate this, try to bridge the gap &ndash; instead of refuting science altogether?\r\n\r\nMaybe
    I'm na\xEFve, or idealistic; but I wonder if this isn't a prime example of a situation
    where building bridges between isolated disciplines could do so much to make them
    see each other more clearly, and work to each other's benefit. Yes, that would
    be difficult. But not only would it help type (immensely, I think), but taking
    walks on both sides of such a bridge could be one hell of a lot more interesting
    than throwing grenades across the divide.\r\n\r\nMy $.02. Maybe I misread what
    you said? This got a bit epic."
  created: '2009-06-11 14:48:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>how do</em> you <em>define \u201Ctypographer?\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nThe typographer
    is the person who makes decisions about typeface choice, size, leading, and other
    typographic parameters in a document.\r\nSo even a person customizing their browser
    interface is, in a sense, a typographer.\r\n\r\n<em>Nick, would you care to elaborate
    why you say this?</em>\r\n\r\nI already have, in numerous Typophile posts.\r\nHowever,
    ultimately I think the issue is philosophical, concerning the limits of scientific
    reason.\r\nI don't see these issues being addressed in the psychology of reading,
    which seems to be stuck in a retro behaviorist mode. \r\n\r\n<em>shouldn\u2019t
    we try to step up to them and communicate this, try to bridge the gap \u2013 instead
    of refuting science altogether?</em>\r\n\r\nRefuting science? Demarcating it is
    doing the opposite, reinforcing its integrity.\r\nScience can enlighten as to
    how reading works, but it cannot offer prescriptive advice to typographers.\r\nThat's
    not science, but quackery and social engineering, and should be vigorously debunked.\r\n\r\nThe
    methodology of specific experiments by reading researchers has been repeatedly
    critiqued (trashed, even) at Typophile, and I think you will find that has happened
    earlier in this thread. If scientists want to be taken seriously by typographers,
    they will have to better address the issues raised, and steer clear of \"Arial
    vs Mistral\" tests in the first place, and then back off trying to justify them
    as legitimate baby steps.\r\n\r\nFinally, why should one build bridges to aid
    those who seek to destroy one's calling?\r\nThey don't recognize, understand,
    or believe in the value of typography as craft, and think that it should be reducible
    to an objectively manageable practice. As Christopher Dean puts it, \"I also conduct
    experimental research designed to support or refute typographic conventions in
    accordance with objective measures of human performance and empirical data.\"\r\n\r\nNina,
    did you catch the Rock 'n' Roll museum presentation at Typo Berlin, where the
    designers said they were told by officials that for accessibility reasons, the
    type on the walls had to be 24 pt sans serif? That's where this path leads. \r\n\r\nThere's
    no denying technological progress, after all that's the history of typography,
    and we all benefit from it.\r\nBut believing in progress isn't the same as giving
    technologists carte blanche to administer \"adapt or die\"."
  created: '2009-06-11 18:34:57'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"I already have, in numerous Typophile posts.\"</cite>\r\nOK, I'm
    still working on reading my way through the archives. :)\r\n\r\n<cite>\"Science
    can enlighten as to how reading works, but it cannot offer prescriptive advice
    to typographers.\"</cite>\r\nWhere do you draw the line between the two? \r\nI
    mean if \u2013hypothetically speaking\u2013 I were working on typesetting a book
    and a scientist would find that the book would do slightly better in terms of
    readability if it had 0.5pt more leading, or if the type was slightly smaller
    and the measure shorter or whatever, is that already \"prescriptive advice\"?
    \r\nFurther, if I were to accept this input, and consequently attempt to balance
    the complex system of variables that typography juggles in a slightly different
    way, so as to better accommodate the scientific findings, and find a compromise
    between them and my initial, visually guided concept; and if I then find it still
    \"looks good\" (if slightly different), but now with the added benefit that it
    supposedly also <em>works</em> better, then haven't both sides won?\r\n\r\n<cite>\"They
    don\u2019t recognize, understand, or believe in the value of typography as craft,
    and think that it should be reducible to an objectively manageable practice\"</cite>\r\nWhat
    makes you say that? The sentence you quote from Christopher Dean's post doesn't
    sound like wanting to \"destroy your calling\" to me, exactly. More like trying
    to counter-balance fuzzy anecdotal wisdom with empirical findings. \r\nFirst step
    to building the bridge: try to see the value in other approaches to finding truths.
    Or at least stop being terrified of them (or conversely, looking down on them).
    \r\n\r\nBut just to clarify: I do think there's a huge difference in the usefulness
    of science to us between the realms of the functional and the \xE6sthetic. Which
    means I'd laugh at that same scientist from above if he told me I need a font
    with serifs 10 em units longer to make the Average Person perceive it to be 10%
    more \"authoritative\"! Especially so if said scientist were unaware of the complex
    overlapping effects of all those variables in typography. \r\n(Whee, did I just
    get this back on topic?)\r\n\r\n<cite>\"Nina, did you catch the Rock \u2019n\u2019
    Roll museum presentation at Typo Berlin\"</cite>\r\nNo! I'm beginning to think
    I really missed a lot of good bits. :-\\"
  created: '2009-06-12 01:38:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em> if \u2013hypothetically speaking\u2013 I were working on typesetting
    a book and a scientist would find that the book would do slightly better in terms
    of readability if it had 0.5pt more leading, or if the type was slightly smaller
    and the measure shorter or whatever, is that already \u201Cprescriptive advice\u201D?</em>\r\n\r\nNo,
    that's \"let's try all the permutations and see what works best\" product development.
    \r\n\r\n<em>The sentence you quote from Christopher Dean\u2019s post doesn\u2019t
    sound like wanting to \u201Cdestroy your calling\u201D to me, exactly. </em>\r\n\r\n\"objective
    measures of human performance\" means design-by-formula, turning graphic designers
    into robots.\r\n\r\n<em>More like trying to counter-balance fuzzy anecdotal wisdom
    with empirical findings.</em>\r\n\r\nMy \"anecdotal wisdom\" is nothing of the
    sort, it is in fact empirical know-how gained in the laboratory of commerce.\r\nIt
    is not fuzzy but finely honed, enabling me to discriminate between, say, Meta
    and DIN (both of which I have experience spec'ing in printed projects) for setting
    recipe instructions, rather than the extreme generalizations of Arial and Mistral,
    which is the state of the art for reading scientists.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-12 05:41:47'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: I for one have no problem with science as such. I love and respect science,
    read about it, have worked with scientists all my life. The problem with this
    thread is not too much science, it's too little of it.
  created: '2009-06-12 06:57:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Exactly.\r\nLet's start with a definition of type size.\r\n\r\n<em>...is
    that already \u201Cprescriptive advice\u201D?</em>\r\n\r\nOK, so we'd like to
    be able to say something along the order of \"10 pt serifed type is more readable\"
    (as determined by objective measures of human performance).\r\n\r\nBut how do
    I, as a type designer, design a 10 pt serifed type?\r\nI don't, I scale according
    to the em square.\r\nIgnoring the fact that there isn't a definition of the em
    square which typographers can agree on (as emerged on a thread at Typophile),
    and that scientists haven't even addressed this issue, considering foundry/layout
    application definition of \"size\" as axiomatic, I have to ask:\r\n\r\n1. Are
    those serifs slab or bracketed, and are the terminals ball, square, or adnate?\r\n2.
    Is type size determined by cap height or x-height, and then, what percentage of
    em square is that height?\r\n\r\nThat would be prescriptive advice, but without
    it, all science can do is performance reviews of specific typefaces in specific
    documents."
  created: '2009-06-12 16:11:12'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: I have not seen this "type size thread." Can anyone point me in the right
    direction?
  created: '2009-06-12 17:27:26'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Cheers for clearing that up, Nick.
  created: '2009-06-12 18:06:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "\"type size thread\":\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/27742\r\n\r\nJust
    re-read that, it's hilarious! (well, I think so.)\r\nRelates to leading as well
    as type size."
  created: '2009-06-12 18:15:12'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "New word:\r\n\r\nIn science land, they refer to leading as \"inter-linear
    spacing.\""
  created: '2009-06-12 20:00:32'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Note to the original poster: just found this old thread that might be of
    interest\r\nPsychology of Typefaces\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/2635"
  created: '2009-06-14 14:49:58'
- author:
    name: thomasv1
    picture: 113275
  body: "I've recently 'finished' the paper (it was incredibly rushed), and having
    played a part in its conception and development, you--I thought--deserve to read
    it. Any comments would be welcome--just bear in mind that it was a rush-job and
    if you think some elements might not seem as thought-out as they could be, I whole-heartedly
    agree.\r\n\r\n[[http://www.filesavr.com/ba1906|Paper]]\r\n[[http://www.filesavr.com/fntserif|Questionnaire
    1 (serif)]]\r\n[[http://www.filesavr.com/fntsans|Questionnaire 2 (sans)]]"
  created: '2009-06-25 12:43:54'
- author:
    name: thomasv1
    picture: 113275
  body: "The questionnaire roughly translates to the following:\r\n\r\nDear participant,
    \r\n\r\nPlease read the introduction carefully before you answer questions. The
    study will take about 5 minutes of your time. We appreciate your cooperation very
    much and     thank you for the effort.\r\n     \r\nWith Ahmadinejad victory conflict
    in Iran government still present\r\nElections have caused a rift within the political
    elite\r\n\r\nThe Iranian authorities are likely to succeed in suppressing the
    street riots that  arose after the re-election of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. But the
    rift that has developed in the political elite seems permanent.\r\n\r\nRotterdam,
    June 14. Continuing street protests in several major Iranian cities underlines
    the belief by many Iranians that the electoral victory of the radical-conservative
    President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was the product of fraud. But there is little doubt
    that the authorities will succeed in suppressing that spirit.\r\n     \r\n    I
    think the author of the above text is:\r\n     \r\n    no expert 1 2 3 4 5 expert\r\n
    \   unbelievable 1 2 3 4 5 credible\r\n    unreliable 1 2 3 4 5 reliable\r\n    unfair
    1 2 3 4 5 fair\r\n    not really 1 2 3 4 5 sincerely\r\n    incompetent 1 2 3
    4 5 expert\r\n    incompetent 1 2 3 4 5 qualified\r\n    amateurish 1 2 3 4 5
    professional\r\n    not authoritative 1 2 3 4 5 authoritative\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-25 18:50:30'
- author:
    name: bemerx25
    picture: 112539
  body: Moderators please delete samueljaxon's spam. And maybe take them outside for
    a little chat about appropriate behavior...
  created: '2009-07-06 15:39:36'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "nevermind\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2009-07-06 15:47:36'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Is SJ a bot?\r\n\r\nFood for thought: [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Non_zero_sum#Non-zero-sum|Non-zero-sum]]
    relationships. An interesting debate between pre/post internet generations."
  created: '2009-07-06 22:44:56'
date: '2009-05-27 16:39:25'
node_type: forum
title: Fonts and Authority Perception (Psychology)

---
