---
author:
  name: aaronbell
  picture: 117132
body: "Well, given our <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/57934\" title=\"Typophile\">recent
  discussion of using fonts on the web,</a> I thought this was particularly relevant.
  It appears that Jason Santa Maria is working with a company called Small Batch,
  a company that, in conjunction with unnamed foundries, will have a storehouse of
  fonts one can use online in a protected manner.\r\n\r\nApparently it will work via
  a javascript call indicating what font one wants to use and assumably, it will allow
  direct usage of some sort for select-ability and without image replacement, but
  that is yet to be seen. I'm a little cautious due to the usage of javascript to
  make it happen, given than if one's internet is not as speedy, there may be a flicker
  of some sort as the fonts are replaced, but that is  speculation given that the
  service hasn't launched yet!\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://blog.typekit.com/2009/05/27/introducing-typekit/\"
  title=\"Typekit Post\">Check out the entire post about Typekit</a>"
comments:
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "I am extremely dubious about this. They are giving absolutely no technical
    details, as yet, as to exactly how this font-linking will work.\r\nThey say all
    you have to do is add one line of javascript to your HTML page and Voila! - you
    can instantly begin specifying - in your pages - a variety of font-families offered
    by them.\r\n\r\nDoes anybody have any further details? Does anyone know of a foundry
    that has a licensing agreement with them?"
  created: '2009-05-28 16:53:34'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>I am extremely dubious about this. ...Does anybody have any further
    details? D </cite>\r\n\r\nThere is nothing magic about it. It's exactly the kind
    of service I was planning to set up since last year (but nether got around to
    do it.)\r\nThe CSS @font-face rules are created/loaded on the fly on the client-side
    and the fonts are then loaded from the external server. The server can check whether
    or not the request comes from a licensed website. Which fonts you wanna use is
    defined in your account on the website of the service provider. At least that's
    how I would have done it and from what I read, they also do it this way. (Though
    I think I would not use JavaScript)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-28 17:22:16'
- author:
    name: aaronbell
    picture: 117132
  body: "The javascript side is my concern too. Wouldn't it be possible to make it
    all work via something like php? I guess it wouldn't be as easy to implement on
    the client side, but it wouldn't run the risk of flickering or showing a user
    a badly set page while the font is downloading.\r\n\r\nSpeaking of which, I guess
    there will have to be some consideration should someone not be using javascript
    or the like to allow the system to degrade gracefully. "
  created: '2009-05-28 17:34:56'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "<cite>\r\nWe\u2019ve built a technology platform that lets us to host both
    free and commercial fonts in a way that is incredibly fast, smoothes out differences
    in how browsers handle type, and offers the level of protection that type designers
    need without resorting to annoying and ineffective DRM.\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nSo not
    only they will be hosting the fonts, it sounds like they will be rendering the
    text for the webpages as well thus creating a single point of failure and a traditional
    customer lock-in setup. They will also be in a position to track all activity
    on my website.\r\n\r\nThis <em>is</em> a DRM system with some rather nasty side-effects.\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-28 17:35:54'
- author:
    name: aaronbell
    picture: 117132
  body: '@epsilicon That is a really interesting point. By setting this system up,
    they would be able to totally track all activity of all users on sites that use
    their service based on where the calls come from. Potentially powerful data mining
    tool for them and a little scary for me. '
  created: '2009-05-28 17:43:16'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>The javascript side is my concern too. Wouldn\u2019t it be possible
    to make it all work via something like php? </cite>\r\n\r\nYou don't need any
    \"coding\" on the client side. A simple unique CSS link would suffice. The rest
    can be handled on the server side. \r\n\r\n<cite>it sounds like they will be rendering
    the text for the webpages as well</cite>\r\n\r\nI don't think so, they specifically
    talking about a \"font linking license\", so to me this real @font-face linking
    of TT/OT/EOT fonts. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-28 18:02:21'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "If your description is accurate and first-hand, it's pretty much what I surmised.
    There's at least one other company called TrueFontFamily using a similar system
    that also uses a Javascript insert. But they generate bitmaps from TTF and OTF.
    In that case, the TTF is being referenced piecemeal as the bitmaps are created.
    There is never any access to the entire, installable TTF or OTF. Hence, no licensing
    problems. (Or, at least, far less licensing problems. After all, what's being
    done is what gets done in Photoshop every minute of every day - only it's being
    generated server-side on the fly.)\r\n\r\nA system which depends upon JavaScript
    to generate @font-face rules does nothing to protect the TTF or OTF files. No
    matter how well obfuscated. Cracking it and requesting the entire font file is
    trivial.\r\nIt will also add overhead to the loading of the page. Especially if
    it's heavily obfuscated.\r\nI cannot imagine in my wildest dreams that Ascender/Microsoft
    or Adobe or Monotype would acquiesce to such a licensing arrangement.\r\nPlus,
    my understanding is that FireFox enforces a same-domain restriction on font files.
    I don't know about IE and EOT files.\r\nI haven't done any research or testing
    to see if that's true but I will do so in the next day or two. And if true, I
    don't see how a system that pulls the font file from a different domain can work.\r\nThanks
    for the info.\r\n\r\nRich\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-28 18:09:20'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "<em>A system which depends upon JavaScript to generate @font-face rules does
    nothing to protect the TTF or OTF files.</em>\r\n\r\nExactly. \r\n\r\nEven it's
    not a @font-face per se, but something along the [[http://typeface.neocracy.org/|typeface.js]]
    it still is going to deliver type definition to the client where it can be re-assembled
    back into .otf. The only way to prevent this is <em>not</em> to send the type
    to the client at all, meaning that the type rendering is going to be done on the
    server side."
  created: '2009-05-28 18:20:59'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@epsilicon\r\nI disagree with you as far as typeface.js and the more popular
    Cufon text-replacement technique.\r\nIn both cases the TTF or OTF is almost always
    sub-setted, reducing its desirability as something to download and re-use. (In
    fact, such sub-setting could be requested as a licensing requirement.)\r\nBut
    far more importantly, the JavaScript data is not easily reconstructed into a usable,
    working font file. And that data, in the case of Cufon at least, is almost always
    incomplete because the browser engine doesn't need every point to adequately render
    the glyph. And skipping points creates a smaller file for download.\r\n\r\nIMHO
    - font makers have little to fear from this technique.\r\n\r\nJust my 2 cents
    on the subject."
  created: '2009-05-28 19:19:08'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "@font-face is CSS based, so there's isn't a whole lot of reasons to move
    it to the back-end vs. the front-end.\r\n\r\nAt least with Safari (not sure about
    Firefox) there is no 'flicker' from what I've seen. The type doesn't render until
    the font is loaded. "
  created: '2009-05-28 19:29:11'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"The only way to prevent this is not to send the type to the client at all,
    meaning that the type rendering is going to be done on the server side.\"\r\n\r\nAnd
    that is simply a solution that few, if any web designers would bother dealing
    with. We have that now, for the most part...GIFs and JPGs. \r\n\r\nI suppose based
    on the info we have for Typekit at this point, we have no idea what they're doing.
    My first assumption is that it's just a javascript file that renders out the appropriate
    CSS with @font-face attributes linking to the source font files on Typekit's servers.\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-28 19:35:01'
- author:
    name: Garrick Van Buren
    picture: 117401
  body: "Ralf Herrmann, \r\nI agree that not using javascript is preferable. I'm building
    out a similar service ( <a href=\"http://blog.kernest.com\">Kernest.com</a> )
    that works both with and without a javascript tag. \r\n\r\nepsilicon, \r\nI agree
    on the risk of a central-point-of-failure and that the TypeKit service (and even
    my service) is very close to a DRM service. Long term, I don't think that will
    be the case, and I'm architecting Kernest to provide a useful service even without
    the DRM aspects. \r\n\r\n  "
  created: '2009-05-28 19:40:46'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>A system which depends upon JavaScript to generate @font-face rules
    does nothing to protect the TTF or OTF files. </cite>\r\n\r\nAnd there will not
    be any real protection in the near future (or probably never at all). See all
    the threads on this topic from last year when Safari introduced their @font-face
    support. \r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>Plus, my understanding is that FireFox enforces a same-domain
    restriction on font files. </cite>\r\n\r\nWhich can be bypassed when the files
    are sent with Access Control Headers. "
  created: '2009-05-28 19:43:40'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"central-point-of-failure\"\r\n\r\nKeep in mind that we all probably have
    different concepts of 'point of failure'\r\n\r\nMost web designers have become
    quite accustomed to progressive enhancements and graceful degradation.\r\n\r\nIf,
    for whatever reason, the font doesn't load, OK, use Arial. As type folks, we may
    cringe at that, but web designers have become quite accustomed to that method
    already. \r\n\r\nAs a web designer, I'd probably find the ease of using someone
    elses service to deal with the hosting/bandwidth and CSS a very fair trade for
    the occasional service outage. "
  created: '2009-05-28 19:47:55'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@Ralf, et al\r\nSeems like the pros, cons, ups and downs of a font service
    like this have been well thought out and we are going around in circles.\r\nIMHO
    - I'm always in favor of experimentation, but I can't see this gaining any traction
    in the marketplace. It isn't any kind of a long-term solution.\r\nFrom the user's
    perspective, there are too many negatives. And they are BIG negatives.\r\n\r\nThe
    problem of font-linking will be solved satisfactorily when FireFox, Safari, Chrome,
    Opera, and IE support linking to 1) both TTF/OTF files and EOT (or an EOT equivalent
    yet to be decided upon) or 2) just EOT or an equivalent uninstallable file format.\r\nThen,
    font-linking can really take off without legal hassles.\r\n\r\nHowever, there
    shouldn't be any illusions. Once those versions of FF, Safari, etc... that do
    support linking to TTF/OTF reach a kind of \"critical mass\", many web authors
    will link to font files whether EULAs say they can or not.\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-29 13:39:29'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"The problem of font-linking will be solved satisfactorily\"\r\n\r\nThe
    web tends to abhor proprietary DRM solutions (especially when we're talking about
    open source projects like Firefox). It might work. But I see EOT having as many
    adoption issues as any other current option. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-29 15:37:49'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>there are too many negatives.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhich are?\r\n\r\n<cite>
    but I can\u2019t see this gaining any traction in the marketplace. It isn\u2019t
    any kind of a long-term solution.\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nI don't consider such rental
    services THE ultimate webfont solution, but an additional font market with huge
    potential. There are still all those corporate clients which have their corporate
    typefaces and we should offer them a way to upload those fonts on their server.\r\nBut
    there are millions of website owners who have never licensed a font, because the
    regular font licenses just don't work for them. But if they have the chance to
    rent a font for a very small fee per month, they would probably consider it, and
    this could become a huge market. I know I would use such a service for my own
    blog ..."
  created: '2009-05-29 17:25:11'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@aluminum\r\nEOT is not a DRM format anymore than the JavaScript file which
    typeface.js or Cufon produces is DRM. Neither one will install as a font file
    in the operating system. I admit that has a \"DRM effect\" but in this case it
    really depends on your biases and point of view.\r\nEverything has its advantages
    and disadvantages.\r\nFirst, EOT is compressed. That's a plus for me right there.\r\nI
    believe TTF/OTF files can be gzipped but that involves another step and might
    not be available unless you run your own server.\r\nNext, if you're directly subsetting
    TTF to TTF and the name of the font is kept the same it's pretty easy to get confused
    and end up with some mighty strange looking web pages. Dealing with six different
    variations of Minion, all OTF files, is not my idea of a good time.\r\nAlso, tying
    the file, as EOT does, to a domain name (or a drive letter for local use) has
    advantages when you are subsetting, sometimes glyph-by-glyph, for web pages with
    very specific requirements. The WEFT tool auomatically adds numbers to the file
    names, and it makes it that much harder for me to shoot myself in the foot by
    applying the wrong font file to the wrong site or the wrong page.\r\nIt's fine
    to own guns, but safeties and trigger-locks are necessary accoutrements to them,
    I think.\r\nBut all this nonsense over font-file formats for the web and IP issues
    have gone on too long.\r\nIs the web development community going to wait ten years
    for the W3C to get off its butt, come up with a format, have the browser makers
    implement, and then wait out the time it takes for that feature to propogate out
    to the majority of Internet users?"
  created: '2009-05-29 18:16:02'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"It\u2019s fine to own guns, but safeties and trigger-locks are necessary
    accoutrements to them, I think.\"\r\n\r\nI agree.\r\n\r\nNow, back to talking
    about fonts...\r\n\r\nEOT could work. I'm not saying it won't. But it's MS's invention
    and rarely does the web browser industry immediately jump on board that kind of
    proposal. \r\n\r\nThe current advantage of @font-face is that it's simple for
    a web developer to implement and it works. The disadvantage is that foundries
    think that will cut into sales."
  created: '2009-05-29 19:12:52'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>First, EOT is compressed. </cite>\r\n\r\nSo are CFF OpenType fonts,
    which are what most commercial foundries offer. \r\n(Can't reply to your point
    about font names, because I don't understand your problem with them)"
  created: '2009-05-29 20:25:42'
- author:
    name: Garrick Van Buren
    picture: 117401
  body: "Richard Fink,\r\n\r\nWe've already waited 12 years (NN4 & IE4 in 1997) for
    the W3C to declare a standard and the browsers to implement it in a consistent
    manner. \r\n\r\nIf we wait another 10 I'm confident typography and type design
    will no longer exist as professions.\r\n\r\n--\r\nhttp://blog.kernest.com\r\nhttp://garrickvanburen.com"
  created: '2009-05-29 23:06:16'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "<cite>I just wanted to clarify some of the confusion over the mention of
    JavaScript in the post. Typekit isn\u2019t using any sort of image replacement
    for rendering fonts on web pages. We\u2019re using the CSS @font-face declaration
    to link to Truetype and OpenType files. We\u2019re using JavaScript to simplify
    that process and account for various browser versions (like automatically swapping
    in EOT for Internet Explorer).</cite>\r\n\r\n(from [[http://blog.typekit.com/2009/05/27/introducing-typekit/#comment-302|here]])"
  created: '2009-05-30 07:32:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: ">>>>>>\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-05-30 15:38:22'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@ralf\r\nSince you undoubtedly know an order of magnitude more than I do
    about the nuts and bolts of font technology, I'm at a disadvantage here but teach
    me, please.\r\n(I'm not being snide, I mean it.)\r\nI just bought, a few months
    ago, the Adobe Web Fonts pack.\r\nThey were delivered as TTF files. Nearly all
    the files in my Windows font folder are TTF's but some of them seem to have Opentype
    features and display an \"O\" in the icon as a result. Or, at least, I assume
    that's the reason.)\r\nWhere are the CFF Opentype files you're describing? What
    am I missing, here?\r\n\r\nI'm a web developer with a keen interest in onscreen
    reading technology and my main focus is on fonts as they are handled and rendered
    within browsers. And, therefore, I'm also concerned about what effect on page-load
    time linked font files will have.\r\n\r\nSo another question is, since there are
    different levels and kinds of compression, what's best? Is CFF really packed down,
    or will converting it into an EOT shrink it down further? Plus, I have not tested
    it, but I've heard it mentioned that TTF or OTF files can be gzipped.\r\nLotsa
    questions, I know.\r\nYour input greatly appreciated...\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2009-05-30 18:49:28'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Typically, CFF OpenType fonts have a \".otf\" extension. All of Adobe's retail/end-user
    fonts are of this form *except* the 12 WebType fonts.\r\n\r\nOn Windows, for a
    TTF (TrueType) font, the presence of a digital signature (of all the silly things)
    causes an \"O\" icon instead of the usual \"TT\" icon.\r\n\r\nAny file can be
    run through a compression program, of course. OpenType CFF is pretty compact as
    far as the outlines goes, and doesn't easily compact further... unless it has
    really extensive OpenType layout tables.\r\n\r\nThe optional MicroType compression
    in EOT uses subsetting plus various TT-specific optimizations. It can achieve
    slightly better results than straight subsetting plus ZIP compression, say 40%
    instead of 30% or something like that, as I recall. It won't do so much for OpenType
    CFF, because that format is already quite compact.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-31 06:06:18'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Thanks for stepping up Thomas. I figured you were the guy who could clear
    this up.\r\n\r\nSo, bottom line, CFF does the compression job pretty well.\r\nComparable
    to EOT.\r\n\r\nSo I gotta move compression out of the plus column for EOT, as
    compared to CFF OTF font files.\r\n\r\nIf you'd be so kind:\r\n\r\nCan an easy
    conversion be done from TTF or OTF (uncompressed) to CFF? And if so, with what
    software?\r\n\r\n\r\nciao,\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2009-05-31 16:51:56'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "> <em>Any file can be run through a compression program, of course.</em>\r\n\r\nOut
    of pure curiosity I just tried compressing a .ttf and .otf (Effra and Etelka respectively).
    TTF size was 92K, OTF - 59K. Interestingly enough both compressed down to about
    the same size:\r\n\r\nZIP -> 37-39K\r\nLZMA -> 32-35K\r\nPAQ8 -> 25-27K\r\n\r\nBasically
    it means that there's still a lot of potential for compression even if the font
    file is already compressed natively."
  created: '2009-05-31 21:26:34'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@epsilicon\r\nThanks for that. Pure curiosity drives about half my day, lately.\r\nYou
    don't get more authoritative about stuff like this than Thomas Phinney, but \"compressed\"
    can mean different things in different contexts.\r\n\r\nCurrent browsers support
    gzip compression which is what I'll be testing. I don't know how gzip matches
    up to the algorithms you tested or if one of your acronyms actually is the gzip
    algorithm by another name.\r\nHowever, based on your post, my suspicion is there's
    still some considerable packing that can be done.\r\nOf course, there's a time
    factor for unpacking on the client end in the browser which, frankly, I haven't
    look into. But I do know it's rather minimal.\r\nAnd I'll also compare a CFF file
    with its EOT counterpart.\r\nSee what I come up with.\r\nIt won't be within the
    next couple of weeks. But I will post back the results.\r\nIf font-linking is
    going to happen, and it is, we've got to know these things.\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2009-06-01 00:38:01'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: Keep in mind that any OpenType CFF font might or might not be subroutinized.
    If not, then it won't necessarily be as small as it could.
  created: '2009-06-01 19:45:47'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@christopher slye\r\nOy vay, you mean there's something called subroutinization
    that I have to be aware of?\r\nOr are you pulling a newbie's leg?"
  created: '2009-06-02 13:58:25'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "No, really. :)\r\n\r\nIt's part of the Adobe FDK, and also available in FontLab.
    (The option there is \"Use subroutines to compress outlines in the CFF table\".)
    I believe there is some inherent compression in OpenType CFF, but subroutinization
    can shrink a font significantly (or not, depending on the font)."
  created: '2009-06-02 19:13:26'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "OK. Gotta buy Fontlab, I see. Can't get away with the cheaper alternatives
    anymore, I guess.\r\nIncidentally, since this thread started out talking about
    Typekit and licensing - I actually got some hands-on experience with how it works
    today.\r\nHad it cracked and hacked in about three minutes and I'm no great shakes
    at stuff like that.\r\nThe OTF data was trivially easy to obtain.\r\nIf delivering
    an unprotected font file is the major sticking point, I can't imagine any major
    vendor going along with this.\r\nTypekit moves into the nice try column - IMHO."
  created: '2009-06-03 01:54:08'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: Interesting observation. Thanks Richard.
  created: '2009-06-04 00:39:44'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Sorry, I've been kind of busy in the past week.\r\n\r\nAs usual, Christopher
    knows his stuff (no surprise, he started at Adobe way back around August 1997).
    OpenType CFF is maximally compressed when you use subroutinization, and not without
    it. How much additional compression that adds is dependent on the outlines in
    the font. Sorry that I forgot to mention that... pretty much all Adobe's fonts
    use subroutinization, and I turn it on in my FontLab prefs and forget about it.\r\n\r\nThe
    main part of the font which is not as compact as it reasonably could be, in OpenType
    CFF, is the layout tables. The more extensive the OT layout in the font, the more
    you'd imagine that either going to EOT or doing ZIP compression might make things
    a bit smaller.\r\n\r\nOn the protection side.... No scheme that relies on publicly
    available specs (including EOT) is going to be all *that* hard to crack. It's
    just a question of what proportion of users are deterred by the barriers put in
    place, and whether the font vendors are satisfied with that. PDF and SWF are not
    terribly secure, but are \"secure enough\" for most font vendors. Mind you, part
    of that may be because of the lossy embedding of SWF embedding in general, and
    PDF embedding as typically practiced.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-06-09 06:52:22'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@thomas\r\nThanks. That was succinct and I, newbie, understood every word.\r\nMy
    focus is on screen reading and fonts for that purpose, especially within browsers
    - the browser having become the universal client. (Like the knife and fork, by
    now, IE is probably one of the most-used tools in human history.)\r\nThe sample
    of Typekit that I analyzed fed an EOT file to IE and fed a base64 encoded string
    to FireFox. (Very large. Came to about 133 kb, a substantial bit (no pun) of page
    load time.)\r\nIn order to take the font for re-use, I'd have to reconstruct it
    from either the EOT or the base64 string.\r\nThe same, incidentally, holds true
    for the JavaScript text-replacement product Cuf&oacute;n, which converts the points
    into a format readable by the browser's script engine.\r\nIMHO - none of these
    schemes enables easy, drive-by downloading of an instantly installable font-file.\r\nPlus,
    once I've reconstructed the data into a TTF/OTF file - which will require a tool
    of some kind - I then have to trust that it's quality hasn't been degraded.\r\nCuf&oacute;n
    developer Simo Kunnen explains it well on this thread, <a href=\"http://groups.google.com/group/cufon/browse_thread/thread/0bb96ddb30bc0064#\">Font
    Security Issues</a>, from Cuf&oacute;n's Google group.\r\nI keep having a vision
    of 60's comedian Jonathan Winters doing his \"Grandma\" character saying, \"Don't
    touch that. You don't know <b>where</b> that's been!\"\r\nAnd, truly, I don't.
    I don't know if it's missing glyphs, or who knows what else.\r\nAnd what holds
    true for me holds true for other developers as well. As long as the terms are
    conscionable, I'd rather pay for what I can trust from a company I can hold accountable.\r\nBottom
    line: I think the fear of unlicensed distribution running rampant is overblown.
    It wouldn't be if Microsoft wasn't holding the line, but they are."
  created: '2009-06-09 15:08:00'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>none of these schemes enables easy, drive-by downloading of an instantly
    installable font-file.</cite>\r\n\r\nNot yet, but as soon as this kind of implementation
    would become a common way of using webfonts, someone would build a tool that automates
    the retrieval of the original fonts. This could be as simple as a website (or
    app), where you enter an URL and get a package of all the fonts used on this website
    with the base64 encoding removed. \r\n\r\n<cite>Very large. Came to about 133
    kb, a substantial bit</cite>\r\n\r\nWow, that's a lot. TrueType? CFF? Subsetting?\r\n\r\nI
    just tried it with our Graublau Sans Web package. One original OpenType file (CFF)
    has 44 KB (with the full character set including CE, Greek, Cyrillic ...)\r\nAs
    Base64 it's 56 KB, but with GZIP compression (which all those browsers supporting
    TT/OT linking should handle) it has only 36 KB! Which could be reduced even further
    with subsetting. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-09 17:57:40'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@ralf\r\nTip: Jeffrey Veen is one of the folks behind typekit. View source
    on Veen's blog.\r\n\r\nYou're welcome!"
  created: '2009-06-09 18:40:49'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@ralf\r\nOops. Mud on my face.\r\nVeen pulled the Typekit stuff off his blog.
    Must've gotten wind people were looking.\r\n\r\nI saved files though. \r\nIf you
    want to see, send an email to comments - at - zoomperfect.com. And I'll zip up
    what I have.\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2009-06-09 18:52:45'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "On a related note, Kernest is now licensing commercial type for use with
    it\u2019s service. Contact them for details."
  created: '2009-07-29 20:17:24'
date: '2009-05-28 15:37:49'
title: Typekit - Web font licensing?

---
