---
author:
  name: nina
  picture: 111699
body: "Are there any fonts that use contextual alternates with chopped-off serifs,
  like the ones below, to prevent crashes and/or enhance \"word images\", and do you
  think it makes sense? \r\n\r\nI'm doing something similar to my f + ascender combinations,
  but that seems more conventional than the r + x-line-serif combinations, at least
  I've seen it done before (and also discussed it with a couple of people), so I'm
  less uncertain about those.\r\n\r\nI'm pretty excited about these, but would love
  some second eyes/opinions before I take this too far (it obviously is a pretty expandable
  concept :-) ).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ernie-calts_5554.jpg]\r\n\r\nDunno
  &ndash; are these too \"designy\"? (Maybe specifically the \"rt\"?)\r\n\r\nOh, and
  please excuse the still somewhat wobbly spacing, I'm in the middle of fixing it."
comments:
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "It looks great Nina.  I've also been experimenting with these discreet contextual
    alternatives.  Perhaps instead of (or in addition to) chopping off serifs, you
    could also slightly alter the r, starting the arm a bit lower so as to make a
    higher angle (and thus a skinnier glyph).\r\n\r\nThere's no taking it too far.
    \ Now if Eben would publish a nice compilation of all of his research for us to
    gobble up .... *winkwink* *nudgenudge* *stabstab*"
  created: '2009-05-29 14:36:48'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Nina, in text printed at text sizes, you won't see the difference between
    column 1 and column 2, I think. Especially in the rt combination. Maybe something
    for a display variant\u2026"
  created: '2009-05-29 14:43:49'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Oh right Matthew, now I remember you started a thread on something similar
    recently. Was it the descender of the \"j\" in the \"gj\" combo? Or something?\r\nI'm
    not sure I'd want to make the \"r\" skinnier &ndash; at least not a lot, as I
    feel it needs a certain width in this wide font of mine &ndash; which is why I
    started experimenting with \"the other side\"\u2026\r\n\r\nDan:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ernie-calts-printout_6384.jpg]\r\nThat's
    9pt, which is the target size of the font. I admit the \"rt\" is not too noticeable
    (I guess that gap's too small), but the others seem to do some more or less subtle
    de-cluttering/de-blob-making to my eye."
  created: '2009-05-29 15:12:28'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "(With the first three) I get a sense of overlapping (a third dimension),
    which may be no less distracting than a crash. \r\n\r\nMaybe with those, a shortened
    serif (so there'd still be a notch underneath) would be better than the diagonal
    shear."
  created: '2009-05-29 15:32:58'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'Lateral thinking idea: instead of trying to pull apart the top, why not try
    to push the bottom together: for example, when followed by a v/w/t, have r''s
    bottom right serif extend further. '
  created: '2009-05-29 15:33:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nina, I use {calt} on some of my fonts for better fit and preventing crashes.
    Also, Eben gave a presentation on this at TypeCon and ATypI last year.\r\n\r\nBy
    all means try it!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-05-29 15:36:15'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Aw. The 3D thing probably isn't good.\r\n\r\nTo give another reason for why
    I'd like to prevent those crashes: \r\nIn German typesetting, as is commonly discussed
    with regard to f-ligatures, connecting ligatures are forbidden across more than
    one part of a compounded word. Thus, say in the word <em>aufleben</em> (to revive)
    \u2013which is composed of the prefix <em>auf</em> and the verb <em>leben</em>
    (to live)\u2013, since it's <em>verboten</em> to set that with an \"fl\" ligature,
    but the crash looks bad too, most typesetters will then track that \"fl\" combination
    out until nothing's touching anymore, which then (depending on the font) tends
    to cause large white holes.\r\nAnd those CALTs up there could help with similar
    situations involving \"r\"-induced crashes, keeping eager mouse cursors away from
    InDesign's kerning/tracking palette. If people find the CALT feature, that is.\r\n\r\nI
    like your \"lateral\" idea too though, Craig.\r\n\r\nChris: nice! I don't assume
    Eben's presentation is documented anywhere? Wish I could see that."
  created: '2009-05-29 15:44:24'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "eliason: interesting, I actually had the same effect but only on the last
    one.\r\n\r\nNina, I tried livetracing it and playing around but I didn't get very
    far.  My two other thoughts were to finish the x/w/v/y a little lower and pull
    the tip of the r up and a little to the right, or to start it lower and bring
    it further to try to fill in the space.... I didn't get very far though (note
    the file name) but maybe just to give a visual idea.  Top right is the original\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sorry_clash_attempt_5074.png]\r\n\r\n[edit:
    it seems my attempt was suggested by eliason while I was working up the image,
    dang I'm slow]"
  created: '2009-05-29 15:56:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Email Eben or maybe he will see your post.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-05-29 16:00:58'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Heh, those look a bit sad, Matthew. \"Bow down before the almighty 'y'!\"
    :-)\r\nAlthough you might be on to something in terms of disambiguation, say in
    \"rn\" vs \"m\" combos. Hmm.\r\nI guess in the display cut, I could pull the \"r\"'s
    arm up over the x-line too. A bit like in <a href=\"http://www.veer.com/products/typedetail.aspx?image=JBT0000118\">Eloquent</a>?
    Although I'm not convinced that reads well at all."
  created: '2009-05-29 16:37:22'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Nina wrote to me (thanks!) so I am going to reply here:\r\n\r\nI have been
    planning on posting something but MA at Reading is keeping me very busy and has
    changed my ideas a bit as well.\r\n\r\nThe main idea I would like to put across
    is that for a text design for both technical and typographic reasons 99% of the
    time it is  going to be a bad idea to design a font so that it completely relies
    on special shapes and scripting. The same can be said about kerning. A design
    should be acceptable without kerning. Having designed and spaced things really
    well you can think about kerning. Having done the kerning you may actually be
    done. If not you may want to look at special shapes and CALT. But these shapes
    need to solve problems not achievable in some other way.\r\n\r\nHowever if your
    design is such that some combinations still seem overly awkward or just not as
    good as they could be - perhaps you have a wide f for reasons of style and want
    to support several languages- you may want to look at special contextual shapes.
    \r\n\r\nLet me address some of the combinations specifically: to begin with rn
    should simply work. If ro looks a little loose then so be it. CALT isn't always
    available. A good solution for rn should be your default. Refinements could be
    made for a r+o r+e and maybe another for r at the end of a word and or with some
    punctuation (eg r+. but not r+;).\r\n\r\nAbout the r in this thread: pull it back
    the arm of the r rather than bending it. I don't think the change to the y is
    working.\r\n\r\nAnother example is f+ other letters. Combinations like fi , fl,
    fh are classics, but even tougher is f\xE5 f\xE0 f\u0101 f\xE4 and then tougher
    still is f\xEF f\xEE and then perhaps the very worst is f\xEC. \r\n\r\nBut the
    design and its purpose and then fitting of that design that should drive your
    choice rather than filling a list of possible features to add. Whatever you do
    with special shapes should not be noticeable to a reader but should instead solve
    things so that a clash or gap that would otherwise be problem is avoided and reading
    is made easier. \r\n\r\nOne of these days I will get round to making a list available
    but I after I have worked on them and can comment.  \r\n\r\nIt is worth remembering
    that good letter design, spacing, and even good document design are all more important
    than this.\r\n\r\nThere is more to say but I need to sleep!"
  created: '2009-05-30 01:44:42'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: I think the pairs you're highlighting ought to be spaced significantly further
    apart, with or without the alternate shapes. "rt" in particular seems like you're
    sacrificing some legibility for the sake of "even color". I do like how the alternates
    work, though, and I think they'll work even better when you give them some room.
  created: '2009-05-30 02:32:18'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I want to echo what Kevin is saying - the examples shown do seem mashed together.
    The combos rv rw ry will have a degree of gappiness even when you have done your
    best with them. In order to let the shapes be clear you need a space between r
    and the other letter. The rt  is too tight. \r\n\r\nAlso, the w y & v can be designed
    so they are more narrow and/or they can have curved strokes if you think the gap
    is a problem."
  created: '2009-05-30 08:40:36'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Wow, thanks for the input.\r\n\r\nRe \"relying\" on the special effects ;-),
    honestly I don't think the crash in my example is horrid if it happens (like for
    Word users or whatever). I'd rather have the crash than a much-larger gap. That
    said, I think it's nice to be able to avoid the crash, sort of as a bonus. Dunno
    if that makes it gimmicky; but to be honest I don't quite get the purism. Should
    it really be better to generally make the spacing \"too loose\" just so the people
    without OT support won't see crashes? That strikes me as a more invasive measure
    that would also influence the nature of the design a lot more (as well, of course,
    as having differently shaped v/w/y glyphs).\r\n\r\nThat said, thanks guys for
    pointing out the too-tight \"rt\". I'm about to sort-of finalize the lc spacing,
    but that one I hadn't really seen. (I know, suboptimal timing.)\r\n\r\n<cite>\"About
    the r in this thread: pull it back the arm of the r rather than bending it. I
    don\u2019t think the change to the y is working.\"</cite>\r\nOh. If you have the
    time, I'd of course be very interested to hear why it's not working for you.\r\nFWIW,
    my main thought behind trying it this way round was that I don't want the \"r\"
    to lose any of its \"r\"-ness (which is kind of a fragile concept to begin with)
    by making it narrower; but on the other hand I don't think a \"y\" stops being
    readable as a \"y\" if it's missing a serif. So the idea is remove the clutter/noise
    that doesn't carry meaning, to make the bit that does carry meaning stand out
    more and give them more room. If that makes any sense.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"But the
    design and its purpose and then fitting of that design that should drive your
    choice rather than filling a list of possible features to add.\"</cite>\r\n*nod*
    That's also how this came along. I've been impressed with how much \"feed-back\"
    there has been from spacing back to the design of individual glyphs, like realizing
    some glyphs were very slightly too wide or something. With the \"r\" though, as
    I said above, I'd like it to keep its current width but am exploring possibilities
    to make it fit with the others. (Although I'm now thinking that I will probably
    space its right side a hair more loosely overall.)\r\nCheers :)"
  created: '2009-05-30 14:06:51'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I like the idea of this. The printout above looks cool. It looks like r needs
    more space but hard to tell without seeing it next to other letters that don't
    crash so much. But I guess it makes sense to have this as a selectable feature
    (not sure which though).\r\n\r\nDid you see [[http://typophile.com/node/40439|this
    thread]] about f with umlauts...there's a clever animation by Jos (scroll to 3
    Jan 2008) to show how kern, liga and calt features can combine to stop awkward
    crashes. I was following a similar idea when I came to my f ligs in Mint (not
    yet posted) and ended up with several different widths for the top of f."
  created: '2009-06-02 21:02:12'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Yeah, I ended up spacing the \"r\" quite a bit more loosely. Maybe still
    too tight, though\u2026\r\n\r\nNew variants with \"k\" and lslash (partly counterbalanced
    with kerning), any special opinions on these?\r\n\r\nPolish (\"wstrz\u0105sn\u0119\u0142y\",
    what a great test word):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/polish_6543.jpg]\r\nDanish
    (\"beskyttelse\", yes I know that \"k\" is horridly loose on the left side):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/beskyttelse_5567.jpg]\r\n\r\n(For
    those into blurring things to simulate parafoveal action, note how in the very
    bottom-right there is a little bright notch between the \"k\" and \"y\", which
    I would guess can only help \u2013 but what do I know!)\r\n\r\nMaybe I should
    have put this into the Critique section. \r\n\r\n*\r\n\r\nThanks for pointing
    out that other thread, Ben &ndash; I had seen and bookmarked it before but somehow
    forgot about its existence again. There's just too much good reading round here!
    :)"
  created: '2009-06-02 23:46:50'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Looks like you're testing this *very* thoroughly! Good on you ;)\r\nI wonder
    if ky could do with a smidge more space. Look as besky; the first three letters
    are quite further apart I think. I can't imagine how much work it turns out to
    be to properly space a font. "
  created: '2009-06-03 00:01:03'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Good question &ndash; I find that \"besky\" almost impossible to judge because
    the \"sk\" is so horridly off. :-\\\r\nAlso, I must say I find it really hard
    to judge the spacing for glyphs that have sideways open counters, like the \"k\"
    (and I guess also the \"r\" to a degree), in terms of: how much space belongs
    to the glyph shape and *needs* to be there for the glyph to work; and how much
    is really the space *between* this glyph and the next, which can be eliminated?
    (I'm not expecting answers on that one ;-) )\r\n\r\nBTW, these printouts are quite
    a bit too bold, probably. A preliminary specimen booklet is being (digitally)
    printed at the moment, for my presentation at the end of this week. I'm pretty
    worried what that will look like\u2026"
  created: '2009-06-03 00:14:56'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "I was exploring this back in 2006: http://typophile.com/node/17236\r\n\r\n<em>I
    was messaging with Paul Hunt about opentype this afternoon and we stumbled on
    a further idea together. What about a semi-serif opentype face, that contextually
    places serifs based on neighboring glyphs?</em>\r\n\r\nI can't remember what happened
    to this! The goal was a little different. I was aiming to minimize the number
    of serifs to approach sans typography, but still maintain the *essential* serifs
    for reading. Figuring out *essential* proves to be tricky!"
  created: '2009-06-03 15:19:37'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Wow, that's seriously exciting stuff, Randy. Did you take it any further?
  created: '2009-06-04 17:29:39'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Uh, yes a bit, but looking back on it now there are things to change. Here
    is a screenshot of a very simple comparison (sorry for the big image):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/multisemi_5729.gif]\r\n\r\nMiddle
    column has the contextual subs. Mainly, the subs get rid of one serif in situations
    where there are serifs on adjacent letters. The sub that is relevant to your thread
    is a situation like rn and ry where the serif is missing on the second letter.\r\n\r\nNote,
    these letters are not all the same with serifs added or cut off. Sidebarings have
    been adjusted as well as glyph widths (adjusting internal counters) to harmonize
    the different types of glyphs, and yet, there is no kerning :-) The smallcaps
    are just for fun, and looking at them now, seem very similar to Sauna. Anyhoo,
    that is the end of the road on my hardrive. -- This would be a cool thesis project
    I think, were I in a program that is. Clearly there is a lot more that could be
    done."
  created: '2009-06-04 20:18:04'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thanks for showing this here! I find it hugely exciting actually, and promising.
    \r\nI'm especially intrigued by what happens in sequences like \"rn\", or similarly
    the omission of the x-line serif of the \"i\" in \"ri\" &ndash; which I'd guess
    would never be consciously noticed by average readers, but subtly disambiguates
    it so well from \"n\". \r\nSo this approach doesn't just look good (less busy/noisy
    than the full semi, and more \"stable\" in a way than the sans), but actually
    helps! Yum. \r\nI guess the downside is a font like this would be quite an opus
    magnum to make\u2026 and tricky."
  created: '2009-06-07 18:57:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "You can use classes to reduce the code lines. I do think it is a good exercise
    in learning feature code as well.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-06-07 21:25:29'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "<em>I guess the downside is a font like this would be quite an opus magnum
    to make\u2026 and tricky.</em>\r\n\r\n<em>I do think it is a good exercise in
    learning feature code as well.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, and yes. As for the rn rm combos,
    it might make sense to add the right-facing serif on the bottom of the r, but
    also to firm up the word shape at the baseline. Otherwise in a word like \"storm\"
    you get three sticks in a row before the closing serif on the m.\r\n\r\nThis alludes
    to some of the trickiness. I'm using my gut about what is needed, and I'm not
    sure I can trust my gut. It seems to be taking advantage of me in non-type matters!
    That said, my take is that at serifs help define word shapes by emphasizing its
    edges. And they also help define the counter space between the letters and inside
    the letters. That was my premise. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-08 20:19:24'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Yeah, when I said \"tricky\" I was more thinking about figuring out the exact
    concept (what to sub against what, when) than getting it to work technically (although
    I'm not saying the latter wouldn't be tricky too!). I wouldn't know how to go
    about it other than by gut feeling, either.\r\n\r\nRandy, out of curiosity, have
    you ever shown this (middle) sample to laymen?\r\nIt'd be interesting to know
    if they notice anything funny going on at all. \r\n\r\nBTW, when I presented my
    font at my type design class a few days ago, I mostly got incredulous and slightly
    amused reactions to the contextual subs\u2026 I like them though and will keep
    them in, unless/until someone can convince me they don't help."
  created: '2009-06-08 22:50:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...I mostly got incredulous and slightly amused reactions to the contextual
    subs\u2026\"\r\n\r\nFrom your class mates? Young people? That is sad. At that
    age my fellow students would have been thrilled to see someone push the envelope.
    I hope they appreciate you underneath it all.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-06-08 23:02:03'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">I like them though and will keep them in\r\n\r\nI'm glad to hear it. I think
    it's a really interesting solution you've come up with. I agree with Chris, it's
    great to be experimenting. And I actually do think they work too."
  created: '2009-06-08 23:18:38'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Well they weren't like making fun of it; it was more like the \"OMG, I didn't
    even want to look that deep into that wormhole\" kind of reaction. Not everyone's
    equally obsessed I guess\u2026 and I did get a bunch of good feedback about my
    font from them too, no hard feelings at all. I don't blame them; but I do wish
    we'd heard anything of substance about readability in this class; if I hadn't
    been hanging around here, I would at most be hazily aware there might be some
    differences between making text and display fonts.&nbsp;&nbsp;:-\\"
  created: '2009-06-08 23:19:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Welcome to the Typophile Academy of Type Design. ;-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-06-08 23:25:11'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Thanks &ndash; and seriously! There should be t-shirts. :-)
  created: '2009-06-08 23:37:33'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "So to sum this up (or better: to give an update), this is how I ended up
    doing the \"rt\" &ndash; I shortened \"t\"'s crossbar a lot more, maybe too much,
    or maybe it's too loose now:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rt-danish_4506.jpg]\r\nIn
    the r + diagonals, I left the design as above, couldn't get it to work with a
    shortened serif &ndash; I might try that again though, once I get the spacing
    to really be waterproof.\r\n.\r\nAnd the f + ascender combos look like this (probably
    also too tight?)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fb_5882.jpg]\r\n(These
    are photos from a digital print at 8pt.)"
  created: '2009-06-08 23:54:43'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Aren't you supposed to be on vacation or something?\r\n\r\n<em>Randy, out
    of curiosity, have you ever shown this (middle) sample to laymen?\r\nIt\u2019d
    be interesting to know if they notice anything funny going on at all. </em>\r\nNope,
    this is the first time seen in public. I did show my wife, and she thought it
    was nice, but would be nicer if it would make a bazillion dollars."
  created: '2009-06-08 23:58:43'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "BTW spacing looks better in the prints than the screen grab. Also, f\xF6
    looks ok, but that fb combo is too tight. Either needs a lig, a narrow f alt,
    or a contextual f that joins to b h k etc. This is a very nice typeface. Congratulations."
  created: '2009-06-09 00:04:14'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thank you, Randy! That means a lot. \r\nI'd like to leave the \"fb\" (etc)
    unconnected, specifically for German where grammar rules often forbid the use
    of connecting ligs, which of course doesn't keep the \"f\" from crashing into
    ascender serifs &ndash; which I therefore removed. But then I fell into the \"whee,
    now I can space it tighter\" trap, which probably nullifies the benefit of it
    all.\r\nAnd yeah, I said I wouldn't be working on this ATM. On top of that, I
    should actually be sleeping now\u2026 it's addictive stuff. :)"
  created: '2009-06-09 00:17:17'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite.that fb combo is too tight </cite>\r\n\r\nYou could also just space/kern
    it more widely. I think joins tend to be harder to make work well than letting
    in some extra space to keep things clear. Joins are brittle in a way that space
    is not.\r\n\r\nRandy - more space around your lc el might be good if this is for
    text. Look at the density opf rolling vs second. The space between r & n  in morning
    with the calt seems wide.\r\n\r\nIt's great fun to see you doing this stuff."
  created: '2009-06-09 01:25:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I'm afraid you might be going to a more exotic solution, when a simpler one
    needs to be there, or at least needs to be there before the exotic one is applied
    as well. To me your r should look be drawn and spaced to look decent between two
    n's and two o's. In other words, the r needs to be far enough from the n. If this
    isn't your starting point, then you're making a lot of trouble for yourself to
    try to make up for it with kerning and tricks. \r\n\r\nAfter that, for vw you
    can do what you like as far as reducing the outward extension--pretty common--or
    with kerning. If these moves don't suit you, then the special alternates might
    be ticket, as you propose. "
  created: '2009-06-09 02:02:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"On top of that, I should actually be sleeping now\u2026 \"\r\n\r\nWhy don't
    you just work on the Z and z? Making zzz's is almost like sleeping :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-06-09 02:25:47'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thanks for the heads-up, William. I spent a bunch of time trying to space
    it right &ndash; but I'm still very much learning to see\u2026 I just looked at
    it again between \"n\"s and \"o\"s and indeed it's probably a bit tight on the
    right side. So I guess I'll go fiddle with that first!"
  created: '2009-06-09 11:26:01'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Randy, what's the logic of the 'r''s in "warrior" have different bottom treatments?
    Isn't the shape of the left side of the following letter ('r' and 'i') identical?
  created: '2009-06-09 12:48:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I\u2019m still very much learning to see\r\n\r\nI'm a few years more at
    this than you, but only a few, and I completely understand your frustrations,
    as I have had the same feelings for a long time. \r\n\r\nBut I've come to the
    conclusion that the problem is not me, it's the alphabet :)\r\n\r\nBy that I mean,
    there are some letters who design just does not permit the same kind of evenness
    of color across the word as the other letters. Almost all of the lower case letters
    are either narrow (i,l) or have a design that permits balancing in \"four corners\"
    in the x-height region. Those letters that can't be balanced in the same way are:
    r v w y. You can \"cheat\" the r by making it narrow, but if you go too far it
    also looses it's \"r'ness\".\r\n\r\nSo I think that the same ideal of even color
    in the word just can't apply fully to these four letters as they are going to
    create \"holes\" of white space toward the bottom of the x-height area whatever
    you do. And so we have to go to a lesser standard. That's where I think Jost Hochuli's
    metaphor in Detail in Typography is useful. He says that 'light from above' is
    more effective than below. Another way of saying this is that on the lower case
    we give priority to the x-height spacing over the base line spacing. \r\n\r\nSo
    after torturing myself over this stuff I have got to a \"don't worry, be happy\"
    place, where I am just looking to get the spacing to look right in the x height
    area, and not worrying about the lower \"holes\", other than by having the characters
    not too wide. \r\n\r\nIn upper case you also additionally have problems with A
    F L T P. --Which if you add V,W,Y means that 8 letters, a third of the UC have
    unsolvable \"problems!\" The Carolingian Minuscule 'solved' those design flaws
    in those five Imperial Caps. But my feeling is that the Imperial Caps were never
    used in text anyway, but were display, used on signs and stone carving, and were
    wide and widely spaced to give priority to elegance of letter form. But acknowledging
    the inherent problems is to me reassuring because it explains why everyone who
    is sensitive to these issues feels a need to kern caps in display. "
  created: '2009-06-09 14:32:19'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thanks William. Truth be told, they're not frustrations. This is just me
    going down the rabbit hole &ndash; which keeps getting deeper and darker. Learning
    to design type has been an engaging exploration to strange and wonderful places,
    with rare animals along the way, and Typophiles as great travel guides. And sometimes
    one needs a machete to clear some serifs out of the way!\r\nCome to think of it,
    Hrant's jungle metaphor was probably pretty good. :-)\r\nSeriously, of course
    I've made certain steps (like trying to space that \"r\") five times instead of
    once. But all of that helps me to learn and to see, which really is the point
    of the exercise (well apart from making this font :-) ).\r\n\r\nIt's an interesting
    angle that the Latin alphabet actively necessitates the presence of white holes.
    (It would be interesting to know if / how much these are even *helpful* for readability!)
    Makes me think of my first typography teacher at design school, who used to remind
    us to \"learn to live with our God-given holes\" (that of course never failed
    to crack us up). \r\nIt hasn't occurred to me before to connect that to Hochuli's
    light thing &ndash; interesting. (Another way to look at it would probably be
    that since the upper half of the x-height is more important in reading than the
    lower half, that might reinforce the importance of good spacing at the x-line,
    rather than the baseline.)\r\n\r\nHowever one sees the theories though, I suspect
    the most difficult step involved is learning to *see* the right amount of space,
    and I'm definitely not quite there yet. But I am beginning to think that cerulean
    was probably right when he said somewhere up there that I'm caring more for \"even
    color\" than I should.\r\n\r\nThe rabbit hole continues\u2026"
  created: '2009-06-09 16:18:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Learning to see is harder than learning to look\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-06-09 17:04:41'
- author:
    name: thranduil
    picture: 116951
  body: Pardon me for hijacking, but ah, Chris, how true. It's frustrating, but the
    rewarding feeling you get makes up for all those frustrations.
  created: '2009-06-09 17:43:23'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: 'Eliason: I don''t remember!'
  created: '2009-06-12 04:53:19'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> I\u2019m caring more for \u201Ceven color\u201D than I should </cite>\r\n\r\nI
    feel that way as well. I am willing to trade clarity for even color more & more.
    But I still like to have my cake & eat it too when possible."
  created: '2009-06-12 21:56:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "You have to redefine \"even color\" for yourself. Even color has to take
    into account the script and language to the extent that you are only lessening
    jarring to the reader without creating a homogenous blend of sameness. Think of
    even color as a movement in a symphony--it has life and speaks to you with variety
    and dynamics. Excessive even color is more like Muzak--the mayonnaise of elevator
    music that barely distinguishes a melody.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-06-14 19:56:37'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"Think of even color as a movement in a symphony\"</cite>\r\n\r\nInteresting
    angle!\r\nSounds like this is something that is greatly helped by experience?
    I must say I can't really hear the music of my spacing all that well yet.\r\nBut
    I think I've been too afraid of \"spottiness\". Think I'll try to be a bit more
    daring :-)\r\n\r\nPS: I see what you mean re the language &ndash; I set a lot
    of different languages in this font and it was impressive to see how much the
    color/\"pattern\" differs. In Icelandic my font looks darker, and in Greenlandic
    it just looks incredibly wide. That's pretty exciting stuff. Not only does my
    font speak languages I can't read, it also alters its voice :)"
  created: '2009-06-14 21:01:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I would put the musical analogy of even color differently. I think even color
    is more like keeping a regular beat. Then the varied rhythm and melody play against
    that underlying regularity. I think 'spottiness' is a distraction, just as a drummer
    who can't keep the beat steady is, or player putting an extra beat in a measure
    would be. \r\n\r\nThe \"underlying beat\" in type is illustrated by those Fourier
    transform pictures of text. \r\n\r\nEven color and an interesting dance of shapes
    are in tension, but not opposed. Great typefaces have both.\r\n\r\nThis is not
    to say that the alphabet is ever going to have perfect evenness of color. But
    if you don't get *relatively* even color the \"word image\" or \"bouma\" doesn't
    come together properly. As Mario Feliciano said to me, \"You want beautiful words,
    not beautiful letters.\" Relatively even color and rhythm is a big part of that.\r\n\r\nSo,
    Nina, I would say your concern for even color is very healthy for producing good
    type, though it's only one of several dimensions of type design. "
  created: '2009-06-14 21:34:35'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Now I'm confused as to what even color actually *means*\u2026\r\nIs it not
    directly opposed to spottiness? \r\nWhere is the fine line between \"spottiness\"
    and the gaps *necessitated* by the structure of the alphabet, as discussed above?
    \r\nIs there such a thing as *too* even color? If yes: how much is enough? \r\n\r\nHow
    do you \"see\" it to find the right amount? I've tried blurring, but blurring
    makes me see a lot of splotches that I think are needed/unavoidable (like \"e\"s
    being busier than \"o\"s and such). I've tried looking at stuff from far away,
    which might be slightly better. But how do I know it's \"good\"?\r\n\r\nOh and,
    if anyone has a pointer to a good/comprehensible source to learn about those Fourier
    transforms, that would be much appreciated. This is about the twentieth time in
    my life that I wish I understood them. :-\\"
  created: '2009-06-14 23:06:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Now I\u2019m confused as to what even color actually *means*\"\r\n\r\nThis
    is the dilemma we all face. Though some of us may be more sure than others what
    it means to us individually, we should all share a healthy respect for the ambiguity
    that really exists there for all of us collectively. There is much to be said
    for the line, \"neither a borrower nor a lender be\" as a way to TRY to see. What
    I mean is, don't take away from one glyph more than it takes to be itself and
    don't give to another glyph more than would secure its identity.\r\n\r\nPersonally,
    I can't see a use for blurring or distortion techniques. I would rather set some
    text then put it away for a while (perhaps long enough to not remember why) and
    just read it on a new day with as naive an eye as you can muster. You pass the
    test if you read through it without stopping to bitch at yourself for the pattern
    :-)  Also do this same thing for other type that is not your own--even quite revered
    type of the admired masters of the craft. You may find a surprise or two.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-06-14 23:23:09'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Oh my, this is another one of those infinite questions?! Aaarg, type design\u2026
    ;-)\r\n\r\n<cite>\"You pass the test if you read through it without stopping to
    bitch at yourself for the pattern\"</cite>\r\nThis sounds good, Chris. Reminds
    me that I was meaning to put this away for a moment, anyway. :-)"
  created: '2009-06-14 23:30:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Is it not directly opposed to spottiness?\r\n\r\nYes, that's the general
    concept.\r\n\r\nI don't think there is a strict definition. I think it has to
    do with *apparently* even density and rhythm, but no one has given a scientific
    definition. \r\n\r\nIt's been more like Justice Potter Stewart's the famous definition
    of pornography: \"I know it when I see it\" :)\r\n\r\nMy own way of testing for
    it is like Chris's, put your letters in words, and see if they hold together and
    read well. When in doubt, change something and see if it helps.\r\n\r\nFor rvwy,
    etc, it is always a compromise between the letter looking more like itself and
    having a bigger hole or gap, so you decide what you like. I think with the caps,
    you go more with the letter looking like itself. With lower case, since most of
    it works to get even color, there's often more \"cheating\" by pulling in serifs,
    narrowing angles, tapering, etc.  \r\n\r\nPeter Enneson can actually read those
    crazy Fourier transform diagrams, and explained them to me once. It actually all
    made sense, but I don't think I could repeat it. But in any case all it tells
    you is that there is a rough convergence around certain frequencies, basically,
    twice the frequency of the width of an n. So even though 'nina' has one narrow
    letter, the two stems of the n, the i and the blacks of the two sides of the \"a\"
    cluster around the one frequency, with similar density.  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-15 01:04:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"this is another one of those infinite questions?! Aaarg, type design\u2026\"\r\n\r\nYes,
    Grasshopper :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-06-15 04:34:19'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Oh, Fourier transforms correspond to those frequency analysis things?! I
    didn't realize that was the same / connected. Interesting. I don't really understand
    either of those yet, but I think I do see that it's about having sort of a consistent
    pattern of verticals going, yes? \r\n(To be balanced against not wanting picket-fence
    monotony either I presume\u2026)\r\n\r\nBTW:\r\n<cite>\"But if you don\u2019t
    get *relatively* even color the \u201Cword image\u201D or \u201Cbouma\u201D doesn\u2019t
    come together properly\"</cite>\r\nHmm, but there's the \"cohesion\" of boumas,
    and then there's their unambiguousness (if that's a word)? &ndash; so basically,
    what you said about \"a compromise between the letter looking more like itself
    and having a bigger hole or gap\". In a way, trying to reconcile decipherability
    of important letter features (such as in this case the beak of the \"r\") and
    \"even color\" is what I was trying to achieve with the substitutions in question.
    \r\nObviously, the execution hasn't been very good/informed so far, but the more
    I think about it, the more I think the concept in itself is valid (or at least
    interesting enough to keep trying).\r\n\r\n-- \r\n\r\nChris: grasshopper? :)"
  created: '2009-06-15 10:27:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Grasshopper\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kung_Fu_(TV_series)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-06-15 15:33:18'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Ha!\r\nI'll train my ear. ;-)"
  created: '2009-06-15 18:10:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'll try to find the time to read the\r\nentire thread, but in the meantime:\r\n\r\n<strong>Randy</strong>:
    Where are you now with your semi-serif work?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-05 18:16:35'
date: '2009-05-29 14:08:53'
node_type: forum
title: Preventing crashes, designing words

---
