---
author:
  name: Chris Dean
  picture: 111971
body: "When you're wearing your pine pyjamas, what typeface do you want them to use
  on your tombstone?\r\n\r\nI'm going with [[http://www.linotype.com/53304/linotypeunivers530basicmedium-font.html|Linotype
  Univers\xAE 530 Basic Medium]].\r\n\r\nAnd [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adrian_Frutiger|Adrian]],
  if you're out there, <em>please</em> design some small caps and old-style figures
  for Univers."
comments:
- author:
    name: sasha-em
    picture: 116834
  body: "This caught my eye for another reason entirely, but you might enjoy what
    it reminded me of. This guy Samuel Bean designed his wive(s) tombstones as a cryptogram.
    I found a picture of it in some typography book (maybe it was a Lupton book?)
    forever ago and I'm in love with it. http://www.waterlooogs.ca/cemeterypics/RushesCemetery.html\r\n\r\nBut
    to answer your question I sure hope mine is set in Mrs. Eaves."
  created: '2009-05-30 18:57:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Typeface on my tombstone? No thank you.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.memorialsbyartists.co.uk/home/"
  created: '2009-05-31 01:34:38'
- body: 'You be surprised at how strict graveyards are about tombstone design. If
    you want a uniquely beautiful tombstone, you''d better search for an accepting
    graveyard first. However, they all seem to accept tacky, gaudy or painfully sappy
    designs. '
  created: '2009-05-31 04:28:58'
- author:
    name: Ed_Aranda
    picture: 117416
  body: VAG Rounded - for sure.
  created: '2009-05-31 06:49:48'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "I don't care what will be my tombstone type, for I don't believe in afterlife,
    so why should I. \r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2009-06-01 08:51:44'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "@DavidR: Posterity. You won't be there to look at it, but other people will.
    Wouldn't you like (now) to think that in the future they will see something stylish
    and think, \"Ah yes, that was typical of him...\"?\r\nOtherwise, you might similarly
    ask \"What's the point in looking after the planet?\""
  created: '2009-06-01 13:22:36'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: Yes, actually, what's the point?
  created: '2009-06-02 08:45:46'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "John Hudson: <cite>\u201CTypeface on my tombstone? No thank you.\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\nDisillusioned?"
  created: '2009-06-02 13:09:29'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "Were I to have a tombstone, it'd be cut by Christopher Stinehour of Berkeley,
    California. I know he'd not use any existing typeface, but cut letters just for
    that particular stone. & I'd not want to see any of it before I perish. \r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2009-06-02 17:03:33'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Streit_6727.jpg]\r\n\r\nCourtesy of my
    supervisor, [[http://or.psychology.dal.ca/~klein/|Dr. Raymond Klein]]."
  created: '2009-06-02 18:45:25'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Andreas: <em>Disillusioned?</em>\r\n\r\nTypography is a technology for the
    reproduction of text. Since a tombstone is a unique production, both in terms
    of being a singular material object and containing text that is relevant only
    to the individual there interred, typography strikes me as an inappropriately
    generic and industrial technology.\r\n\r\nAlaskan: <em>You be surprised at how
    strict graveyards are about tombstone design.</em>\r\n\r\nThis is certainly true
    in large urban and suburban cemeteries. In North America, many places allow only
    flat, cast memorial plaques on concrete bases, so as to make it easier to cut
    the grass.\r\n\r\nThankfully, my local cemetery isn't like that.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gabcem_4718.jpg]"
  created: '2009-06-02 19:58:40'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I am with Will and John on this one. I want something carved into stone.
    \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/3283065074_d6b0c0a434_5069.jpg.jpeg]"
  created: '2009-06-02 20:27:16'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "http://www.flickr.com/photos/joeshlabotnik/318130156/\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-03 00:49:16'
- author:
    name: jb_tubman
    picture: 114559
  body: "Correction: They\u2019re called monuments or memorials. It\u2019s only a
    tombstone if it is on a tomb, which is a large vault, which is different from
    a grave. Also, the correct word is \u201Ccemetery,\u201D not \u201Cgraveyard.\u201D\r\n\r\nI
    may be an enthusiastic computer nerd amateur in the world of typography and design,
    but I was a professional in the world of monuments. I spent four summers of my
    youth working at my family\u2019s funeral home, installing them in cemeteries
    (along with many other kinds of chores that you probably don\u2019t want to read
    about here). And my brother is a regional manager for a major Canadian memorials
    company. And I live half a block from one of the biggest cemeteries in Calgary.\r\n\r\nMy
    brother used to have his own firm, before he (happily) sold it to the company
    he now works for. He used software called \u201CMonuCAD\u201D for the designs.
    Letters are (generally) sandblasted into the rock, not carved. Monument production
    is quite, quite industrial.\r\n\r\nCould you have guessed that I\u2019m a member
    of the Facebook group \u201CYou know you grew up in a Funeral Home if....\u201D?\r\n\r\nJim
    Tubman\r\nCalgary, Alberta, Canada\r\n\"The Stampede City\"\r\n\r\nP.S. Has anyone
    seen a monument done in Comic Sans?"
  created: '2009-06-04 05:25:21'
- author:
    name: IEUAN REES
    picture: 115307
  body: "I make my living entirely from commissioned lettering and calligraphic work
    in Wales, UK and in recent years the request for hand carved headstones has increased
    enormously. The reason is that more and more people are getting fed up with the
    cold typographical approach of most monumental masons and they want to have something
    more personal and unique.\r\nI can carve any typeface but type faces for 2D rarely
    work on stone due the influence and direction of light on the v-cut incision and
    most are not sympathetic to the chisel, wrist movement nor to the stone.\r\nLetters
    suitable for carving are usually too heavy for typefaces as the horizontal lines
    in particular need to be heavier as the shadow reduces their weight. The weight
    of the letters will depend on which direction the stone faces and how much light
    falls on them and if there are any trees or buildings around that would prevent
    enough light to come through.\r\nEvery headstone I design and carve is individually
    considered for the needs of the family and its location and often I need to  personalize
    the letters and working with typefaces would restrict creativity and individuality.\r\n\r\nIf
    you are interested to see some of my headstones and other work please visit my
    web site:\r\n\r\nwww.ieuanreeslettering.co.uk\r\n\r\nIeuan Rees\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-09 00:55:50'
- author:
    name: Ed_Aranda
    picture: 117416
  body: '@IEUAN REES: I browsed your website, and that is some remarkable work you''ve
    done! I can''t imagine working with a medium as unforgiving as stone. Artists
    who were born into the digital age I believe become spoiled by the option to undo
    a mistake at the click of a button. Stone, more so than anything other medium,
    I would imagine requires the artist to work under the pressure of consequence
    for a bad decision or a slip of the hand.'
  created: '2009-06-09 13:36:38'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "No tombstone. Bury me on the woods and plant a tree over my guts. You can
    name the tree after me.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2009-06-09 16:25:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Given my views on what Jim Tubman rightly describes as \u2018industrial\u2019
    production of monuments with sandblasted lettering, I was bemused to receive today
    this image from Maxim Zhukov, showing my Sylfaen Cyrillic type used on a stone
    at the Troekurovo Cemetery in Moscow.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IMG_0313_3645.JPG]"
  created: '2009-06-15 04:15:31'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"When you die, what typeface do you want them to use on your tombstone?\"\r\n\r\nThem?
    \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-06-15 13:33:16'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inscription|Epigraphy]].'
  created: '2009-06-24 02:21:22'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '[[http://genealogy.about.com/od/cemetery_records/ig/tombstone_symbols/tree.htm|A
    tree as a tombstone]]. I think planting a tree as opposed to erecting a stone
    is beautiful.'
  created: '2009-07-08 19:24:43'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: I thought [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Epitaph|Wikipedia's definition of
    epitaph]] might be of interest.
  created: '2009-07-31 05:41:29'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Cross posted from <a href="http://typophile.com/node/75729">German gravestone
    c. 1971</a>.
  created: '2010-10-29 13:33:22'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "some photos I took recently at Toronto's Necropolis:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/necropolis-spurr_5923.jpg]\r\nstick
    letters - a popular theme\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/necropolis-mac_4060.png]\r\nCast
    Iron letters mounted on a wrought iron gate.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/necropolis-mystery_5023.jpg]\r\nA
    complete and utter mystery. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/necropolis-mcmxx_4054.png]\r\nCCC
    ligature!\r\nThese letters are cast lead inlaid into the stone. there are quite
    few tombstone from the same era around here with similar cast lead inscriptions,
    which possibly suggests that monument makers of the day could order them out of
    a catalog, which in a way makes it type.\r\n\r\n [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Necropolis-cathering_4448.png]\r\nMore
    lead 'type' from the same stone. I like the TH ligature.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/necropolis_mona_4236.png]\r\nThis
    one, from an older stone shows some mounting details.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-30 04:31:48'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> I spent four summers of my youth working \r\n> at my family\u2019s funeral
    home\r\n\r\nMy brother is a minister and has heard some interesting anecdotes
    from his funeral director friends. Like the time one of the funeral directors
    was listening to a ball game on the radio while driving the hearse to the cemetery,
    and was so distracted that he drove 5 miles past the cemetery, with a long procession
    of mourners following dutifully in their cars. \r\n\r\nWhen he realized his error
    he turned the hearse around in a parking lot, with all the mourners following
    him, and headed back to the cemetery. He expected the family to chew him out later,
    but they never said a word."
  created: '2010-10-30 07:29:48'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Cross posted from <a href="http://typophile.com/node/75798">Font for old Spanish
    gravestone?</a>
  created: '2010-10-30 23:11:59'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Some of Eric Gill's first forays into typeface design were in the field of
    tombstone lettering. These letterforms are based on his work on Percy Joseph Hiscock's
    tombstone in Chichester caathedral...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gill_hiscock_memo_6286.png]"
  created: '2010-10-30 23:36:42'
- author:
    name: neverblink
    picture: 113022
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/blog_dsc3646_0_6534.jpg]'
  created: '2010-10-31 11:41:52'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: Amazing photo, Neverblink! It seems a book cover.
  created: '2010-10-31 13:36:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Superb photo. Horrible tombstone - it's like the guy never lived.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-31 13:50:37'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>It seems a book cover.</em>\r\n\r\nI half-expect to see an Amazon \"Click
    to LOOK INSIDE!\" banner on top!"
  created: '2010-10-31 14:06:23'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@neverblink: Do you have a high res so we can read the type at the base of
    the stone?\r\n\r\nI'd love to see what M\xFCller-Brockmann's tombstone looks like.
    Does anyone know where he is buried?"
  created: '2010-10-31 21:11:00'
- author:
    name: neverblink
    picture: 113022
  body: "@Christopher\r\n\r\nThe image I posted was taken from Creative Review. It's
    a headstone done by Peter Saville and Ben Kelly for their friend and collaborator
    Anthony H Wilson.\r\n\r\nYou can read the full article, with more photos here:
    https://www.creativereview.co.uk/cr-blog/2010/october/peter-saville-anthony-wilson-headstone"
  created: '2010-11-01 11:58:33'
- author:
    name: simon
    picture: 110408
  body: 'Yeah, like I said in the Creative Review blog comments, I''m not sure Rotis
    is a very good typeface for a tombstone, particularly at the letter sizes Saville
    uses here. I''m not keen on Rotis and, if I''m honest, I was never really keen
    on Tony Wilson: then again, saves ruining another couple - an unappealing ''80s
    type for an unappealing media type.'
  created: '2010-11-01 13:24:12'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: "not typographic necessarily, but a few classics here\r\n\r\nhttp://caughtdeadinthat.tumblr.com/\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-01 13:52:04'
- author:
    name: neverblink
    picture: 113022
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/paulrand_4402.jpg]'
  created: '2010-11-01 15:22:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's interesting that the two cubes are actually making a Muslim star.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-01 16:08:43'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: I like Rand's memorial although it vaguely reminds me of a pair of dice.
  created: '2010-11-01 20:21:21'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: A related thread on <a href="http://typophile.com/node/39715#comment-469218">gravestones
    of famous designers, typographers and lettering artists</a>.
  created: '2011-06-30 18:19:48'
- author:
    name: TylerEldredge
    picture: 122887
  body: I want my tombstone in comic sans, sort of as a cosmic middle finger to the
    universe.
  created: '2011-07-01 06:47:14'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "I have already picked out my epitaph: ^D\r\n\r\nProbably oughta be monospaced,
    though, something like VT320."
  created: '2011-07-01 20:48:19'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: 'Related (and beautiful): <a href="http://www.fontshop.be/details.php?entry=457">Unzipped:
    Custom font for tombstone by Janno Hahn</a>'
  created: '2011-07-02 08:51:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Very nice.\r\nBTW, what's wrong with Janno Hahn anyway?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-02 14:56:47'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@TylerEldredge:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/saans_5292.jpg]"
  created: '2011-07-02 16:55:19'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sator_tombstone_4490.jpg]\r\n\r\nFrom
    <a href=\"http://www.npr.org/blogs/krulwich/2012/04/26/151311708/the-delights-of-reading-upside-down\">The
    delights of reading upside down</a>."
  created: '2012-04-26 19:26:21'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "It's quite true that, in general, one does not have tombstone <em>typography</em>.
    Nor is it really tombstone <em>calligraphy</em>, although that comes closer.\r\n\r\nI
    did a search on \"monumental lettering\", hoping to find the correct term, but
    it seems that there is no single word, and that phrase is often what is used for
    what the people who carved the Trajan column did.\r\n\r\nSo there you have it.\r\n\r\nTombstone
    Monumental Lettering\r\n\r\nas a possible improved title for this thread."
  created: '2012-04-27 01:12:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Actually these days most tombstones are done by machine, so it's definitely
    typography. Not a very good kind of typography, but still.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-27 01:28:03'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: Am I the only one who plans on being cremated?
  created: '2012-04-27 01:31:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'd like to go straight into the earth in my birthday suit.\r\nBut it's probably
    illegal since it doesn't cost much money.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-27 01:53:23'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> I'd like to go straight into the earth in my birthday \r\n> suit. But it's
    probably illegal\r\n\r\nhrant, I've heard of some burial societies that will bury
    folks just wrapped in a sheet. But I don't think that's widely available due to
    burial rules. \r\n\r\nSome burial rules are actually cemetery regulations, not
    laws. For example, many cemeteries require that caskets be enclosed in a burial
    vault (typically a concrete box with a lid) in order to prevent the grave from
    sinking when the casket decomposes. \r\n\r\nCemeteries don't want sunken graves
    because its unsightly and families complain. It can also cause headstones to tip."
  created: '2012-04-27 03:56:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "My father is a foundations engineer, and I remember how fond he was of sheepsfoot
    vibrating compactors. But I guess that would be a bit... unsettling.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-27 04:11:47'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@quadibloc: \u201C\u2026<em>in general, one does not have tombstone typography\u2026</em>\u201D
    and \u201C<em>Tombstone Monumental Lettering.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nReally? *sigh*
    OK then, what\u2019s your definition of \u201Ctypography?\u201D \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/muhammad-ali_3772.jpg]\r\n\r\n<em>Figure
    1</em>: Bring it on!"
  created: '2012-04-27 18:23:20'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Feel free to consider that a rhetorical question.
  created: '2012-04-27 18:23:50'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Having taken another look at this thread, I will say that typography involves
    type.\r\n\r\nI'm easy - I'll accept a typewriter (after all, it could be a Selectric
    Composer) or Letraset.\r\n\r\nBut <em>calligraphy</em> is not typography. And
    so the <em>typical</em> or at least traditional case of headstone preparation,
    where letters are carved by hand isn't typography either. And, even if you were
    referring to the cases which are typography, I was referring to that other case."
  created: '2012-04-28 20:02:45'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/not2_5727.jpg]\r\n\r\n<em>Figure 1</em>:
    <a href=\"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vimZj8HW0Kg&ob=av3n\">Not typography</a>?"
  created: '2012-04-29 04:44:11'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Of course not!
  created: '2012-04-29 04:50:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Christopher, come on.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-29 05:10:08'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "No, it isn't. But it's certainly strongly <em>related</em> to typography.
    Calligraphy, or other lettering arts where care and attention is applied to the
    form of letters, are the fundamental sources on which type design draws. (Yes,
    I recognized the Trajan column there.)\r\n\r\nOf course, in calligraphy - or inscription
    engraving - one doesn't just apply care and attention to forming the letters,
    one also places them on the surface. So calligraphy embodies <em>both</em> the
    same basic creative processes as type design <em>and</em> typography.\r\n\r\nSince
    calligraphy and similar arts resemble type design and typography both, and not
    just typography alone, the distinction between them and typography is one important
    to retain."
  created: '2012-04-29 20:32:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Calligraphy embodies almost nothing that type design does.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-29 20:33:48'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@hrant:\r\nThat is true of calligraphy <em>as usually practiced</em>, since
    most of the time established writing styles are followed. But in principle, since
    the calligrapher forms his or her own letters, calligraphy can include a portion
    of what type design involves.\r\n\r\nAnd, indeed, many type designers <em>were</em>
    also calligraphers, and used this skill in the beginning stages of designing typefaces.
    Of course, they then had to involve themselves in certain explicit processes alien
    to calligraphy, such as allocating the space between pairs of letters to the individual
    letters on each side... I am willing to split any hairs that are needful to split,
    but before the need is discovered, I will not delve too deeply."
  created: '2012-04-30 20:30:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The essential things that make type design relevant are absent in calligraphy.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-30 20:41:08'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: 'TYO363: Redundant reply.'
  created: '2012-04-30 20:50:15'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Walbaum_tombstone_4914.jpg]\r\n\r\nFrom
    Ralf Herrmann via Facebook."
  created: '2012-10-04 11:41:38'
- author:
    name: miles
    picture: 110468
  body: "I've told my children that I'd like this as my headstone.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/theend031_0_3709.jpg]\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-04 14:35:08'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: I think I'd want the 8&times;16 bitmap from the ATI VGA Wonder set in square
    mosaic tiles. What I'd want on the stone would fit in a 16&times;16 square anyway.
  created: '2012-10-04 15:26:18'
- author:
    name: Celeste
    picture: 111293
  body: '[[http://www.poligrafa.net/artist.php?id=169&acc=3]]'
  created: '2012-10-04 16:38:45'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Let's see Hrant.\r\n\r\nThe calligrapher is always concerned with letters
    that are suitable to the text, forever concerned with spacing and interlinear
    spacing, knowledge of layout and placement, the ability to intermix styles effectively,
    etc. ad nauseam. Absolutely no relation to typography :-)\r\n\r\nStop showing
    your myopic, bigoted and shortsighted arrogant ass!"
  created: '2012-10-05 02:32:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No need to be yoursel... I mean... rude, Michael.\r\n\r\nThere's definitely
    overlap between any two activities concerning the visual representation of language.
    But the things that make type design <em>worth having invented</em> are not things
    present in calligraphy (or even lettering). Otherwise why invent it? Unless you
    -like Noordzij- believe that printing was a \"fall from grace\"... In fact now
    that calligraphers are largely useless for the rendering of highly-readable text*
    I believe calligraphy is most valuable when it doesn't worry about legibility,
    even color, etc.\r\n\r\n* Something that's been true for centuries, so it's not
    like it happened after anybody currently alive made their career choice.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-05 02:54:04'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Not being rude Hrant\r\nJust telling it like you do not want to hear it.\r\n\r\nYou
    are a broken record."
  created: '2012-10-05 02:59:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I guess I wouldn't want to find out what counts for rude in your village
    of broken men.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-05 03:05:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>But the things that make type design worth having invented are
    not things present in calligraphy (or even lettering). Otherwise why invent it?</em>\r\n\r\nUm,
    speed of production? Setting pre-cast moveable type massively speeds up the production
    of texts, not only is it more massively more efficient than writing by hand each
    individual copy of a text, but also faster than other printing methods such as
    block printing, and the metal type is more durable than other printing materials
    so can be re-used again and again. Even if typography had never progressed beyond
    Gutenberg's carefully emulation of the formal manuscripts of his text culture,
    it would have been worth inventing for those reasons alone.\r\n\r\nThe secondary
    breakthrough was the realisation by Aldus and others that type could consistently
    produce smaller text than scribes habitually wrote -- which is not to say that
    a good scribe couldn't write at those sizes, only that they tended not to --,
    and that this was still readable. This is where type becomes interesting in its
    own right, independent of writing, because small sizes require optical adjustments
    in order to obtain good legibility. The Elzeviers got a bit carried away with
    this idea: I have one of their small format books set in pretty excruciatingly
    small type.\r\n\r\nSo, speed of text production and copying is the primary reason
    for inventing type, and later other benefits are identified. And <em>then</em>
    some important distancing from chirography starts to occur, as a cultural and
    technical response to the capabilities of type: these developments were not intrinsic
    to or even evident in the original invention.\r\n\r\nAnd for most of the history
    of typography, it exists alongside a vibrant and important scribal culture. A
    lot of people imagine that Gutenberg killed off scribal culture, but it simply
    moved out of book production and into secretarial work, from whence it continued
    to influence text culture and typography. Scribal culture didn't die until the
    typewriter. So we've had a very short period of history, a little over a hundred
    years, in which our text culture has been predominantly typographic, rather than
    a mix of type and writing, preceded by almost 500 years of mutual development,
    and a much longer history in which writing was the only game in town. I'm frankly
    not surprised that type is only recently easing itself out of its long relationship
    to writing. And I think it is noteworthy that 'script' fonts are perhaps even
    more popular today than ever before."
  created: '2012-10-05 03:57:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well explained.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>So we've had a very short period of history,
    a little over a hundred years, in which our text culture has been predominantly
    typographic</blockquote>\r\n\r\nOK, I can grant you that - although the invention
    of printing did nonetheless make scribes much less important. But anyway that's
    still before anybody currently alive had to make a career choice. Ergo: no excuses
    about confusing the contemporary [ir]relevance of calligraphy.\r\n\r\nAs for the
    modern popularity of script fonts: part of it is that we now have the technology
    to do it justice (the magic that Excoffon pulled off with Mistral is now ho-hum);
    and people value what they no longer have, even if it's pretend.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-05 04:16:03'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Tombstone like a business card?\r\n\r\nSome folks don't know when to quit."
  created: '2012-10-05 17:21:25'
- author:
    name: bartd
    picture: 125339
  body: "Calligraphy versus typesetting seems to be an inflamable subject in this
    forum... I don't quite see why that should be, but that may well be because I'm
    neither a calligrapher nor a type designer.\r\n\r\nI will thow in a analogy --
    please show me where I take a wrong turn.\r\n\r\nThere used to be a time when,
    if you wanted to have your portrait done, hiring a painter was the obvious solution.
    Then photography was invented, and since then you had a choice. Over time, photography
    proved to offer many great features. It became more affordable than painting,
    reproduction became easier, you name it. For some time it may have offered fewer
    creative or expressive possibilities then painting, but that changed too, and
    today's software enables the photographer to almost work like a painter. Likewise,
    painting has borrowed a thing or two from photography. \r\n\r\nI think no one
    would claim that painting has become irrelevant.\r\n\r\nNow, substitute calligraphy
    for painting, typesetting for photography and text for portrait, and -- at least
    to me -- all of the above still makes sense. What am I missing?\r\n\r\nBart"
  created: '2012-10-05 21:40:02'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Perhaps we could re-direct our conversation about the relationships (or lack
    thereof?) between calligraphy and type design to another thread, so we can keep
    this one focused:\r\n\r\n<strong><a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/96955\">How
    are calligraphy and type design related?</a></strong>\r\n\r\nIt has been mentioned
    that one of the reasons people may think Typophile is slipping is that all to
    often threads enter a downward spiral of infighting between the same long-standing
    members that goes wildly off topic, eventually killing it."
  created: '2012-10-05 22:11:00'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Gillstone_small_4611.jpg]\r\n\r\nEric
    Gill\u2019s tombstone"
  created: '2012-10-05 22:26:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>...although the invention of printing did nonetheless make scribes
    much less important.</em>\r\n\r\nActually, I think a very strong case can be made
    that the opposite is true. Print publishing contributed the growth and spread
    of the renaissance, of new kinds of texts, and the age of European exploration,
    all of which resulted in a huge increase in written materials. By the 18th Century,
    the call for professional clerks was such that entire orphanages in London were
    dedicated to training their charges in the twin skills of writing and accountancy.\r\n\r\nIt
    is only in the specific field of book publishing that scribes ceased to play as
    important a role as they had prior to Gutenberg's invention; in every other field
    their role increased in importance."
  created: '2012-10-06 01:27:33'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Sorry, Chris, once a conversational tangent has started, I think it is better
    to continue it where it is unless you can persuade each participant to re-post
    their comments, in sequence, in the other thread.\r\n_____\r\n\r\nBut here are
    some thoughts that tie the two subjects together. As some of you know, I've been
    doing research over the past couple of years on what might be termed the 'pre-history'
    of Baskerville's types. I've got a pretty well documented narrative now for the
    development of what I call the 'English Roman' in writing and engraving from 1690
    onwards, showing how, by the time Baskerville asked John Handy to cut it in type,
    the style was a standard part of the repertoire of any writing master. I'm now
    looking at the expression of the style in stone cutting, some of it also pre-dating
    the type but, alluringly, possibly involving Baskerville himself. And just last
    week I was startled to find an example of a French pen written and engraved roman
    that predates my earliest English example; it is distinct in style, but important
    at least as a parallel development.\r\n\r\nAnyway, here are some fine -- slightly
    later -- examples of the style cut in stone, all from a single graveyard in the
    English midlands:\r\n<a href=\"http://www.afamilystory.co.uk/desborough/st-giles/full_image.aspx?i=images/mi-2410.jpg&h=William%20Cave%201668-1713\">William
    & Jane Cave</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.afamilystory.co.uk/desborough/st-giles/full_image.aspx?i=images/mi-10903.jpg&h=George%20Dawkins,%201673-1742\">George
    Dawkins</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.afamilystory.co.uk/desborough/st-giles/full_image.aspx?i=images/mi-2514.jpg&h=Elizabeth%20Essam,%20nee%20Thorpe,%201736-1766\">Elizabeth
    Essam</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.afamilystory.co.uk/desborough/st-giles/full_image.aspx?i=images/mi-7747.jpg&h=Robert%20Iliffe,%201703-1768\">Robert
    Iliffe</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.afamilystory.co.uk/desborough/st-giles/full_image.aspx?i=images/mi-2011.jpg&h=Ann%20Nursey,%201740-1766\">Ann
    Nursey</a>\r\n\r\nI think it is entirely likely, considering the way in which
    engraved designs of similar style were produced, that the layout of these stones
    was first produced by writing (at reduced scale of course)."
  created: '2012-10-06 01:51:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I presume you'll be presenting at the Baskerville event in April? If so,
    I hope they will be providing video proceedings (since I can't make it).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-06 02:11:41'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: No plans yet. My thought is to write it up for publication eventually. You
    saw a snapshot of the research at ISType, during the history panel.
  created: '2012-10-06 02:24:41'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "What's the Baskerville event in April?\r\n\r\nI too am eager to hear more
    about your research, John. Thanks for posting the pictures. The Dawkins looks
    a bit like proto-ITC design! \r\n\r\nOne thing I notice about most of these: the
    outstroke (or whatever you'd call that \"tail\" at the lower right) of /a/ is
    substantial in size and is given generous spacing. It's far closer to to the analogous
    part of a /t/ than that of a /d/."
  created: '2012-10-07 04:47:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://www.typographichub.org/diary/entry/industry-and-genius-john-baskerville-art-industry-and-technology-in-the-enl/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: oldnick
      picture: 109434
    body: "@JonhHudson\u2014\r\n\r\n<em>Actually, I think a very strong case can be
      made that the opposite is true.</em>\r\n\r\nAnd you would be, of course, gravely
      mistaken. What movable type actually did was to vastly expand the base of literacy,
      since manuscripts of all kinds could be mass-produced. It took the invention
      of the typewriter, several hundred years later, to transmogrify the process
      of personal correspondence, as well. Duh."
    created: '2012-10-07 14:07:02'
  created: '2012-10-07 05:00:48'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Furrfu! First you claim Mr. Hudson to be wrong, and then you immediately agree
    with him. As a penance, listen to The Stranglers playing Golden Brown, then sin
    no more.
  created: '2012-10-07 14:58:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Um, yeah, Nick: you say I would be gravely mistaken, and then you paraphrase
    exactly the point that I made.'
  created: '2012-10-07 18:50:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, give it up. Don't be a Hrant.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-07 19:01:33'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Hey, Hrant! Cut the guy some slack! You set the bar awfully high. At best,
    John may be said to be mildly Hrant-like, but it a far more confusing and\u2014oh,
    I don't know\u2014whimsical way\u2026"
  created: '2012-10-07 19:27:16'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/jobs_4379.jpg]\r\n\r\nSteve Jobs. Unmarked
    grave to avoid attention."
  created: '2012-10-07 20:27:00'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@John Hudson: \u201C<em>Sorry, Chris, once a conversational tangent has started,
    I think it is better to continue it where it is unless you can persuade each participant
    to re-post their comments, in sequence, in the other thread</em>.\u201D\r\n\r\nTotally
    true, I did create another thread (which you have already participated in), and
    I\u2019ll still make the same point. Tangential conversations that tank a thread
    are a deterrent to new users. They see it as meandering in-fighting and perceive
    the site as having less value because of it.\r\n\r\nI trust you have noticed its
    always the same 6 guys, and that ~80% of the site has turned to \"whats this font?\"
    by users with accounts that are <24h old.\r\n\r\nObviously its self-defeating
    to try to control others behaviour in a public forum, but its just something people
    might want to be mindful of."
  created: '2012-10-07 20:35:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Chris, you're speaking too broadly and loosely.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-07 20:44:07'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>They see it as meandering in-fighting and perceive the site as having
    less value because of it.</em> \r\n\r\nSad, but true. Plus, is there really a
    point in trying to control's Nick Shinn's \u201Cbehaviour\u201D? He\u2019s just
    going to flip you the bird when he runs out of trite shit to say\u2026not unlike
    Ryan, but with British spelling, don\u2019t you know."
  created: '2012-10-07 21:08:20'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Awesome. I trust I\u2019m not the only one that sees the irony here (as well
    as proof of my previous point)."
  created: '2012-10-07 21:29:00'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/jdawson_4192.jpg]\r\n\r\nThis is the
    tombstone of Jack Dawson, the guy Leonardo DiCaprio played in Titanic. It\u2019s
    in a graveyard in Halifax (where I am from).  As you can see, the ground in front
    of it is worn bare. Wanna know why? Japanese tourists <em>actually</em> think
    DiCaprio is buried there."
  created: '2012-10-07 23:16:00'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Kheops-Pyramid_4017.jpg]\r\n\r\nDuh.
    <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Khufu\">Khufu\u2019s</a> tombstone."
  created: '2012-10-07 23:31:47'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/khuhuinsc_4040.jpg]\r\n\r\nAnd his inscription."
  created: '2012-10-07 23:35:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: <a href="http://www.pmpress.org/content/article.php/waldheim">This article</a>
    has some good photos of the tombstones of 'dissidents row' at the old Waldheim
    Cemetery in Chicago. The memorial to the Haymarket Martyrs was erected here, and
    numerous American anarchists and labour activists were buried around it.
  created: '2012-10-08 06:37:49'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: 'If I can still change my mind, I want the "duh" glyph, and then below it,
    the "ed" glyph. '
  created: '2012-10-08 13:51:23'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Didn\u2019t someone here say something about QR codes on a toombstone? I
    can\u2019t find the comment.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/QRtoomb_4007.jpg]\r\n\r\nhttp://www.dummies.com/how-to/content/qr-codes-on-your-headstone-theres-an-app-for-that.html"
  created: '2012-10-08 21:12:00'
date: '2009-05-30 17:49:22'
node_type: forum
title: Tombstone typography

---
