---
author:
  name: CameronWilliams
  picture: 117391
body: "We\u2019ve all seen the increasing proliferation of single open quotation marks
  (\u2018) used as substitutes for an apostrophe, - - used in place of an em-dash,
  end-quotes used in place of inch-marks, misspellings on shop signs (Quarts watches,
  Newstand, News Stand, <em>stationary</em> used to mean <em>stationery</em>), and
  the like. \r\n\r\nWhile some may argue that there is now more public interest in
  typography, it seems to me that that interest is mainly in letterforms, and not
  in their proper use. What are the causes, and what can we do to halt this devolution?"
comments:
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Not much.\r\n\r\nEach audience will find its own level of \"good\" typography.\r\n\r\nI've
    often quipped that when doing a fine-print edition, you are finished when you
    are so exhausted you don't want to work on it anymore -- or you run out of money.
    There are always things that can be made typographically better.\r\n\r\nAnd while
    not typography per se, you can spend an inordinate amount of time preparing halftones.
    It is rare today to find a book without a fair number of images.\r\n\r\nTo do
    an acceptable job usually takes 20 minutes with Photoshop, and that's assuming
    your monitor is calibrated, you've profiled your \"proofing\" printer, and you
    have accurate TVI data for all 256 levels of gray from the eventual printer, on
    the sheet that will be used for printing. To get the most out of an image, or
    to prepare an \"art\" image, takes far longer. But no one's willing to pay for
    that kind of work.\r\n\r\nMore often than not, you also start with a supplied
    image rather than being able to make a scan from an original, and that supplied
    image will be 8-bit, with an untagged color space, & somebody will already have
    (poorly) done some manipulation.\r\n\r\n* * *\r\n\r\nWhen I read something I'm
    interested in -- the best test -- I find that I can ignore a lot of poor typography,
    design, etc. It is sort of surprising to me, but I seem to reject buying a book,
    or quit reading one, more because of bad printing than any other single manufacturing
    issue.\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-31 14:42:15'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Thank you Charles. All good points.\r\n\r\nI often come to the conclusion
    that high standards have to be held at the institutions. Here I am speaking about
    the US specifically. From what I see all but the top institutions struggle with
    these simple standards. Graphic design programs at universities and museums are
    often behind the curve or simply not up to the standards that other countries
    set. When a museum or educational program teaching graphic design does not demand
    the best design and typography where do we look for standards?\r\n\r\nAlso, I
    see a general trend toward disrespect and non-recognition of expertise. The culture
    seems to have fallen prey to the idea that anyone can do any job, and that if
    I do not understand the particulars of what differentiates a good job from a poor
    job no one else does either.\r\n\r\nMuch of this has to do with ethical standards
    associated with business, and business culture inevitably encroaching on standards
    within institutions. Corporations know that by eliminating skilled positions and
    filling them with underqualified people within ranks or outside the organization
    money can be saved.\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-31 15:01:54'
- author:
    name: CameronWilliams
    picture: 117391
  body: "@jupiterboy:\r\n\r\n<em>\u201CAlso, I see a general trend toward disrespect
    and non-recognition of expertise. The culture seems to have fallen prey to the
    idea that anyone can do any job, and that if I do not understand the particulars
    of what differentiates a good job from a poor job no one else does either.\r\n\r\nMuch
    of this has to do with ethical standards associated with business, and business
    culture inevitably encroaching on standards within institutions. Corporations
    know that by eliminating skilled positions and filling them with underqualified
    people within ranks or outside the organization money can be saved.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nYou\u2019ve
    hit the nail on the head, but there seems to be a larger issue here: where does
    it all end? Where only CEOs, salespeople and investors have value, and everyone
    else becomes a twenty-first century peasant? That seems to be where we\u2019re
    heading, into a new dark age.\r\n\r\nThere must be something that we as designers
    can do to stem this rising tide of mediocrity."
  created: '2009-05-31 15:33:25'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "I have to watch what I say, because I tend to want to site examples (thus
    my posting under a name that is not mine, which I have been scolded for.)\r\n\r\nLike
    many difficult transformative labors the work is accomplished one on one, face
    to face. There is also the issue with the US being a relatively young culture,
    but then it is grafted off so many older cultures to start with.\r\n\r\nThe trend
    that has most depressed me is to do the work and then watch the waters close behind
    as I leave and everything reverts.\r\n\r\nIf we are truly moving into a new dark
    age I suspect there is little we can do to stop it save to take a preservationist
    stance. Often those within institutions that have the sense to strive for standards
    have to wall themselves off from the larger group and settle for controlling only
    their own output. \r\n\r\nHow do you approach a powerful person or group and mention
    that publications they are proud of etc. have missed the mark on fundamental levels
    that tag the work as amateur on an international stage? When peoples\u2019 income
    and stability hang in the balance? Like everything in life, it all seems rather
    delicate and precarious. "
  created: '2009-05-31 16:07:32'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'If we''re heading into another dark ages and we need to preserve typography
    then the answer is clear: We need to recruit many more monks. '
  created: '2009-05-31 18:34:26'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: With regards to the apostophe mishaps, I think that is partly (mainly?) a
    software issue. InDesign automatically uses the proper quotation marks (provided
    you have this feature enabled, but I think it is by default), while the most used
    text processor, Word, does not have an option like this (I think). If Word would
    automatically apply the proper glyphs, the problem wouldn't be so widespread.
  created: '2009-05-31 18:40:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...single open quotation marks (\u2018) used as substitutes for an apostrophe...</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    is a negative side-effect of smart software that fixes a problem which began when
    the ur-encoding, ISO Latin 1, was configured without curly quotes. Perhaps if
    it had included them, there would be corresponding keys in the standard computer
    keyboard layout, which would have encouraged correct typographic practice.\r\n\r\nNonetheless,
    there is no reason why the standard keyboard layout should not now be improved
    upon.\r\n\r\nI would suggest that instead of one key for quote marks/apostrophe,
    which sets single and double \"hash mark\" characters, there be two keys for quote
    marks: a left one which would set opening quote marks, and a right one which would
    set closing quote marks (the single of which could be used for the apostrophe).\r\n\r\nThere
    is no way that software can ever be smart enough to distinguish between a single
    opening quote and an apostrophe, so a hardware solution is called for.\r\n\r\nAnother
    solution would be to teach typography along with touch typing/keyboarding, at
    an early age.\r\nWriting is taught with an aesthetic dimension, \"penmanship\",
    so if people aren't going to be making documents by hand in the future, that aesthetic
    quality may still be taught, as typography."
  created: '2009-05-31 19:47:09'
- author:
    name: CameronWilliams
    picture: 117391
  body: "@Nick Shinn:\r\n\r\n<em>\u201CThere is no way that software can ever be smart
    enough to distinguish between a single opening quote and an apostrophe, so a hardware
    solution is called for.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nThen typographers will be like the buggy-whip
    makers derided in <em>Other People\u2019s Money</em>. What\u2019s so bad about
    paying a human to go through a document using Find/Change to fix what the computer
    missed? Is there no intrinsic value there?\r\n\r\n<em>\u201CWriting is taught
    with an aesthetic dimension, \u201Cpenmanship\u201D, so if people aren\u2019t
    going to be making documents by hand in the future, that aesthetic quality may
    still be taught, as typography.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nI think that\u2019s a much better
    idea."
  created: '2009-05-31 20:41:20'
- author:
    name: Ed_Aranda
    picture: 117416
  body: "@CameronWilliams: <cite>\"where does it all end?\"</cite>\r\n\r\nI think
    it ends with the continued cultivation of a strong, unified professional design
    community that can work together to maintain the standards of the trade. In my
    experience, there is a lack of emphasis put on the importance of typography within
    the greater design community. This needs to be changed starting at the educational
    level. I have always found that outstanding typography can salvage lack-luster
    imagery, but no amount of breathtaking imagery can make up for poor use of typography.
    In the end, if the <strong>words</strong> look unprofessional, the <strong>whole
    piece</strong> looks unprofessional.\r\n\r\nI think that more and more designers
    come out of school (especially the technical schools) underestimating the importance
    of typography, and consequently end up treating it as a supplement to the design,
    rather than as a crucial element of the design \u2013 an art form in itself. In
    advertising especially, some designers completely miss the boat on how important
    it is for a brand to have a consistent voice \u2013 an implied character whose
    use of language (tone, formality, etc.) reflects the values of the brand and it's
    target audience. This is a key part of the puzzle in creating a successful brand
    culture, and has only, in my opinion, been successfully accomplished by a handful
    of brands. These brands also just happen to be the ones that stick around for
    the long haul. \r\n\r\nSince language and all of its denotations/connotations
    are at the heart of building a successful brand culture, we as designers need
    to respect the impact our treatment of typography has on the delivery of our language,
    and ultimately our brand's personality and values. In short, the language needs
    to set the stage for the imagery, not the other way around. I could go more in-depth
    about why writers are underpaid, but I digress.\r\n\r\nSo, coming full circle,
    it seems to me that education in design needs to hold itself to higher standards.
    I see too many technical schools with lousy design programs selling to-good-to-be-true
    degrees to students who are looking for an alternative to fixing air conditioners
    (no offense to air conditioner repairmen \u2013 I just think that people should
    strive to do things they are passionate about, whether they are fixing things,
    designing things, or crunching numbers). These programs are not exactly attracting
    those who are passionate about art and aesthetics, but those who see design as
    better than their other options.\r\n\r\n[Edit]\r\nBy the way, my biggest pet peeve
    at the moment is when people don't hang their quotation marks for a pull quote."
  created: '2009-05-31 20:49:41'
- author:
    name: CameronWilliams
    picture: 117391
  body: "@Ed_Aranda: regarding your last comment: guilty as charged; I have no idea
    how to use HTML to hang quotes.\r\n\r\nRegarding your comments on the whole: I
    agree wholeheartedly with everything you say, but, as you note, schools such as
    Apex Technical and BramsonORT are offering two-year design degrees. A friend of
    mine, a very good creative director for a top pharmaceutical agency, just lost
    her job to a recent graduate from one of these programs, who will work for one-third
    the price. He won\u2019t begin to approach the standards she upheld, but the MBAs
    decided those standards don\u2019t matter. She championed the same values you
    speak of, but in the end, it all comes down to \xA3,$,\u20AC,\xA5, etc. How very
    sad. "
  created: '2009-05-31 22:24:04'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: I suspect that museums and universities that set the bar probably need to
    actually include the support of good design as part of a mission statement, and
    rethink the use of board and committee positions as rewards for wealthy donors
    and strike a better balance of power with those that can guide decisions related
    to design and the projection of standards worthy of emulation.
  created: '2009-05-31 22:49:32'
- author:
    name: aaronbell
    picture: 117132
  body: "@Cameron WIlliams, Unfortunately, hanging quotes in html is kinda a pain,
    especially when on someone else's site (like this).\r\n\r\n\r\nI totally agree
    though. When I attended school (not that long ago even!), the design school I
    went to was focused primarily on motion graphics and flash development with branding
    as a close third and communication design & print & typography being left to short
    and ultimately inadequate amounts of time. I understand that the digital age is
    one about the dynamic \u2014 websites, flash, video etc. That's what attracts
    \"normal\" people nowadays and gets them excited. Even I am rather impressed by
    a well designed and executed piece. But the problem is that the split between
    print design and web design that occurred when the web came to be is starting
    to resolve itself and the two streams of thought are starting to remerge. Of course,
    not everything from print will carry over, but important aspects like grids, typography
    and visual presentation will. We're just at the growing pains stage right now.
    \r\n\r\nUltimately, the problem is that people don't have or are unwilling to
    spend the time to make good typography. I have been guilty of that myself in an
    attempt to build a webpage as fast as possible, but I'm making an effort now to
    make sure everything is done as good as possible (I'm even fixing our copywriter's
    double space after sentences \u2014\_I need to talk to him about that). Anyone
    I work with I will essentially force to do the same until they do it and they'll
    teach the next person and so forth (my evil plot). Truly, the best thing we can
    do right now is to show that there are people that care about good layout and
    typography and make it important. The more effort put into it, the more schools
    are willing to listen and realize that it is actually something of important.
    Maybe then, they'll start to change their ways."
  created: '2009-05-31 23:56:28'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "People need to be taught to value work that\u2019s done well. That seems
    hard to do in a world where vinyl signs in artificially condensed Arial abound
    on the fronts of stores selling albums by guys who can\u2019t finish a record
    without autotuning every second of the vocals, but it isn\u2019t impossible.\r\n\r\nI
    think that to tip the scales in favor of beautiful typography we must ally ourselves
    with other proponents of beauty and effort and expertise. There\u2019s no shortage
    of such people in the world. Marian Bantjes seems to have inspired many graphic
    designers to care about work that\u2019s done slowly, intelligently, and with
    great care. Karim Raschid is doing something similar in the world of industrial
    design, notably with his adorable little dustbuster. Alice Waters is pushing chefs
    (and people who cook at home) to take it slow and use the best ingredients. Alejandro
    Paul zips from convention to convention spreading a love for carefully crafted
    fonts and lettering. Jeff Koonz keeps pushing pop art to even more wonderful places
    than Oldenburg and Van Bruggen did. Sade still takes the time to slowly tease
    out a perfect album every decade. \r\n\r\nWhat we need to do better is evangelize
    in favor of those who do it well. There are plenty of wonderful William Morrises
    out there who work with masters of their crafts, with with slow, artful dedication,
    and they need to be held up as examples of people doing it right. "
  created: '2009-06-01 00:35:32'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>By the way, my biggest pet peeve at the moment is when people don\u2019t
    hang their quotation marks for a pull quote.</cite>\r\n\r\nInteresting example.
    When I began typography along about 1980, this was considered an affectation as
    often as a nicety. This by the editorial sorts. The designers, at least the good
    ones, viewed it as sometimes useful, but sometimes working at cross purposes to
    what they were trying to achieve.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, I & most of the people
    I know would view the use of a single open quote as an apostrophe as an error,
    just like a spelling mistake.\r\n\r\nDesign Police maybe something we need, but
    <cite>Quis custodiet ipsos custodes?</cite> On the other hand, correcting typos
    is always welcome. "
  created: '2009-06-01 01:28:21'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "Unfortunately, the downfall of current accepted typography is an evolutionary
    process. Yesterday's poor language is today's accepted grammer. Companies hire
    cheap keyboard monkeys with as little training as they can get away with to save
    money rather than find qualified professionals. I've heard business people say
    more than once that graphic design is so simple that anyone can do it. With this
    in mind why should they pay a pro? The people at large, don't really care or notice
    and thus poor typography/design become mainstream. If you add texting, the web,
    and a popular youth culture that values basketball over brains you have an excellant
    recipe for the end of proper grammer and spelling, much less typography.\r\n\r\nYou
    can't stop it. No previous culture has stopped it, why should we think that we
    are special.\r\n\r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n\r\n[[http://www.thefontry.com|<em>...from
    the Fontry </em>]]"
  created: '2009-06-01 03:17:03'
- author:
    name: Ed_Aranda
    picture: 117416
  body: "@CameronWilliams: I'm sorry to hear about your friend. I hope she was able
    to find a place where her talents would be valued. Stories like these scare me
    a bit. Being a young designer and freelancer, I struggle all the time with living
    up to my own ever-evolving standards while providing my clients with the value
    that they have come to expect. But what will happen when people start to expect
    more for less? I can feel it happening all around me, and can't help but think
    that there will come a time when I have to either compromise quality or lose a
    client to someone who will do it cheaper.\r\n\r\n@James Puckett: <cite>People
    need to be taught to value work that\u2019s done well.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's it
    in a nutshell. This extends beyond graphic design and typography to all aspects
    of life. It is truly sad to see the arts so undervalued in the American public
    school systems. People don't realize that it's not just about playing an instrument,
    or painting a picture, or writing a poem; it's about the universal concepts of
    balance, proportion, communication, problem-solving, attention to detail, and
    appreciation of craft.\r\n\r\nThe way I see it, as long as there are business
    owners and marketing execs who can't distinguish good from bad design, there will
    always be a niche for designers who offer a bulk discount on \"quickie\" designs.
    Part of selling our services, in many cases, needs to be a crash course in what
    makes good design and why it's worth the price tag. I like to give specific examples
    of exceptional design, and explain what makes it so and how it has provided lasting
    value back to the customer."
  created: '2009-06-01 05:10:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>What\u2019s so bad about paying a human to go through a document using
    Find/Change to fix what the computer missed?</em>\r\n\r\nIt's better to not make
    a mistake than try and fix it afterwards.\r\n\r\nSpeaking specifically about the
    \"flipped\" apostrophe: it's better to encode the apostrophe correctly in the
    first place (in the manuscript document, or right into the layout application
    if that's where it's being keyed), as an apostrophe/right single quote, rather
    than as a generic hash-mark which will be mis-set by \"smart\" layout applications--and
    then have to rely on a proof-reading of the finished art, which is not part of
    most work-flows.\r\n\r\nThe flipped apostrophe is a mistake that many businesses
    that are otherwise fastidious in their production will nonetheless make. For instance,
    Veer published a flyer a couple of years ago with a headline that said \xAB\u201870s\xBB
    or some such thing, with the backwards apostrophe.\r\n\r\nSo that's why I argue
    for a hardware fix: put curly quotes on the keyboard, so that when text is first
    encoded, the writer has easier access to the correct characters--and this would
    also establish the idea that curly quotes are serious default punctuation, not
    just a fancy option."
  created: '2009-06-01 05:48:51'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "The problem with that laudable idea, Nick, is that you'd undoubtedly get
    twerps typing \u201Dthis\u201C, which is worse than &#034;straight quotes&#034;,
    surely?\r\n\r\nWhat irritates me is when you get showcases of graduate work (eg
    as supplements in magazines such as <em>Computer Arts</em>) where you glance at
    a layout and think, \"ooh, yes, some talented designers coming out of uni\", and
    then you look closer at the actual text they've used, and think, \"can't spell
    or punctuate for toffee though...\"\r\n________________________________________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2009-06-01 11:55:11'
- author:
    name: CameronWilliams
    picture: 117391
  body: "@Nick Shin:\r\n\r\n<em>\u201CThe flipped apostrophe is a mistake that many
    businesses that are otherwise fastidious in their production will nonetheless
    make. For instance, Veer published a flyer a couple of years ago with a headline
    that said \xAB\u201870s\xBB or some such thing, with the backwards apostrophe.\r\n\r\n\u201CSo
    that\u2019s why I argue for a hardware fix: put curly quotes on the keyboard,
    so that when text is first encoded, the writer has easier access to the correct
    characters\u2014and this would also establish the idea that curly quotes are serious
    default punctuation, not just a fancy option.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s just
    it, Nick. I saw the flipped apostrophe/date problem two weeks ago in <em>The New
    York Times</em>, a paper that once hired Ed Benguiat to design its masthead; the
    same paper that employed Roger Black as designer of <em>The New York Times Magazine</em>,
    the paper that publishes Williams Safire\u2019s often witty and always informative
    <em>On Language</em> column; it\u2019s only a slight exaggeration (if at all)
    to refer to the paper as \u201Cthe pinnacle of newspaper publishing\u201D. And
    they would not print a retraction. \r\n\r\nAnd in the recent past, I\u2019ve tried
    to fix these and other typographic mistakes in printed pieces for national advertisers
    and even for renowned publishing houses and ivy-league universities; only to be
    told: \u201Cstet\u201D; \u201Cwe cannot afford to risk offending the client\u201D.\r\n\r\nAs
    for the hardware solution, <em>I</em> like it, but how do we convince anyone to
    use it? These characters are already accessible via combination keystrokes, yet
    the publishers of Mavis Beacon haven\u2019t incorporated typography into <em>Typing
    Tutor</em>, nor can I foresee their doing so; their widely-praised method still
    advocates double-spacing after punctuation, and double returns at paragraph ends.
    How do we change the perception that typographic first principles are mere \u201Cniceties\u201D,
    rather than necessities? Because if we can\u2019t change that quickly-growing
    perception, your improved keyboard will never be manufactured; and awareness of
    mankind\u2019s typographic heritage, a heritage inextricably linked to the rise
    of literacy (and its concomitant, self-determination) will surely fall by the
    wayside; that\u2019s why I thought it no exaggeration to state that we may be
    entering a new dark age.\r\n\r\nCan we mount a major museum exhibition, and will
    that have any effect? We could try a legislative approach; try to convince our
    local governments to issue fines for misspelled signs, and further fines for not
    correcting the errors, but I have little hope for that method. Should we take
    guerrilla action (I liked the Chevwrong advertisement posted elsewhere on this
    site, but that was politically rather than typographically motivated)? How can
    we convince educators that this is a matter of importance? Drastic steps, rather
    than incremental improvements, would seem to be appropriate at this point. Am
    I wrong? I\u2019d like to see more comments and ideas."
  created: '2009-06-01 12:39:46'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "1.) Shame incorrect usage, with artful tact if possible. Not letting it ride
    involves calling attention to yourself, which is a risk that probably should be
    taken.\r\n\r\n2.) Disengage from organizations that actively promote low standards.
    So the local museum needs money and is on the rocks, but they can\u2019t seem
    to use real quotes in their wall texts, hire book designers that don\u2019t know
    what a ligature is for, or push the design and production of the quarterly newsletter
    off on a self-trained computer network manager. Tough love with an explanation
    may be in order.\r\n\r\n3.)Reinforce good examples with praise and use this positive
    approach to influence when you can. A nice book gifted to a powerful person along
    with a kind hint about how nice ligatures look and what trouble type designers
    go to might just stick\u2014enough that the next time they look at pages they
    notice the thing you have brought to their attention.\r\n\r\n4.) Build consensus.
    Organizations often have internal disagreements, or differing levels of awareness
    about these issues. If you are on the inside find your friends, get them together
    on the issues, and if possible, start documenting. If it is on paper that things
    should be done a certain way, and a majority of the group becomes involved in
    policing you are no longer the cop. "
  created: '2009-06-01 14:43:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>The problem with that laudable idea, Nick, is that you\u2019d undoubtedly
    get twerps typing \u201Dthis\u201C, which is worse than \"straight quotes\", surely?</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    not much of an argument.\r\nIt's like, we won't provide cruet at our caf\xE9,
    because patrons might put salt in their tea.\r\n\r\nThey'd have to be real twerps
    to not understand the principle: The key on the left is for left quotes, the key
    on the right is for right quotes.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-01 15:34:11'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Left and right shoes have caught on, but are still an issue for some.
  created: '2009-06-01 15:38:48'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "New market niche for introductory \u2013twerp-proof\u2013 hardware!\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/twerpquotes_5579.jpg]"
  created: '2009-06-01 16:50:27'
- author:
    name: Scalfin
    picture: 114154
  body: "One option could be to judge whether we actually need all these different
    marks that look the same in most typefaces and, more importantly when written.
    I mean, if you're going to use the inch abbreviation instead of typing it out
    on a printed document of professional sign, it's a little late to be worried about
    which mark you use. Given that we've already gotten rid of the plural of \"you\"
    and the letter theta, this isn't exactly unprecedented.\r\n\r\nAlso, on misspellings
    and other typos, people are actually much less tolerant today than they used to
    be. According to my parents, you used to be able to get away with almost anything
    because people knew how much work it was to retype a whole page. I guess that
    means my parents are old."
  created: '2009-06-01 21:13:47'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Talk to everyone you meet about your job, don't be shy. This is best and
    most basic promotion of the trade.\r\n\r\nRick Poynor, in a recent eye magazine
    article, criticised the The Best Swiss Books 2007 for a bias toward arts publishing.
    I felt this criticism was maybe a little unfair given that publishers have such
    a huge hand in design decisions (restrictive) and budgets (low), but there may
    be some truth that designers' own agendas are more easily met working in the arts
    than any other field, and thus this is the market they approach. This obviously
    leaves a huge blind spot in the rest of the publishing world.\r\n\r\nI am currently
    deciding who to send my portfolio to. I am really keen to send it to these blind
    spots but it is difficult to address. How do you tell someone when improvement
    is needed? I guess you have to lead by example."
  created: '2009-06-01 22:41:02'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "<cite>Given that we\u2019ve already gotten rid of the plural of \u201Cyou\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\n<em>you</em>
    was (and for some people still is) the plural, <em>thou</em> was the singular.
    \ Besides, there's already a replacement plural form, <em>y'all</em>.\r\n\r\nI'm
    totally for having open and close quotes on the keyboard.  I mean, we have open
    and close parenthesis, it makes sense.  In the Portuguese (European) keyboard,
    they have the open and close quotation marks \xAB\_\xBB, for instance.  In Spain,
    since the keyboard only has \" and most programs aren't smart enough to change
    them to the proper \xAB\_\xBB, a lot of documents have the far less desirable
    English-style quotes."
  created: '2009-06-02 00:32:55'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Nice! I wish we had guillemets on our keyboards in Switzerland (where guillemets
    are quite common at least in professionally printed materials). We do have a key
    for the &lt; &gt; symbols though &ndash; and of course what people end up doing
    is &lt;this&gt;, and sometimes even &lt;&lt;this&gt;&gt;. Makes me cringe\u2026"
  created: '2009-06-02 00:44:01'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "I dunno altaira, I think I prefer &lt;&lt;this&gt;&gt; to \"this\" if the
    language is supposed to use \xABthis\xBB.   "
  created: '2009-06-02 21:55:21'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Really? Well around here, both \xABthis\xBB and \"this\" is OK, actually
    even \xBBthis\xAB can be seen (which Germans do). So \"this\" wouldn't be a problem.
    (Although we'd rather have the opening quote on the baseline.)\r\nDunno, but in
    my world &lt;&lt;this&gt;&gt; is a truckload worse than straight quotes instead
    of \"these\". "
  created: '2009-06-02 23:17:14'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "\xBBThis\xAB is beautiful. "
  created: '2009-06-03 00:26:23'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> So that\u2019s why I argue for a hardware fix: put curly quotes on the
    keyboard, \r\n\r\nYeah, like that can ever happen. The original Qwerty keyboard
    arrangement was originally designed to slow down typists on early mechanical typewriters.
    100+ years later we still use a device that slows us down, and you expect everyone
    to change to a new version just to placate the 1% of the population who are typographically
    aware.\r\n\r\nGood intentions do not always lead to actions. If they did, we would
    all be speaking Esperanto."
  created: '2009-06-03 13:46:48'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Ando thanko providenco weo donto.
  created: '2009-06-03 15:15:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Yeah, like that can ever happen.</em>\r\n\r\nWith just a word in Mr.
    Jobs/Mr. Gates' ear."
  created: '2009-06-03 16:10:51'
- author:
    name: drange
  body: "@jupiterboy\r\n\r\nA \"preservationist stance\" might begin with taking care
    with our own writing: making sure we <em>cite</em> examples rather than \"site\"
    them. We might further base our writing <em>on</em> good examples rather than
    \"off\" them. If we address \"those within institutions\" as <em>who</em> s rather
    than as \"that\" s, perhaps they would be more encouraged to take the risk of
    not letting it ride and undertake to \"shame incorrect usage, with artful tact
    if possible.\"\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-03 17:52:24'
- author:
    name: CameronWilliams
    picture: 117391
  body: "@drange\r\n\r\nExcellent points. We must set an example if we are to be taken
    seriously."
  created: '2009-06-03 18:10:52'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: 'Here''s a clue: how did the ubiquitous practice of superscripting ordinals
    develop?'
  created: '2009-06-03 18:53:38'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Point taken. I should slow down on my posts and give them a look before I
    hit \u201Dpost comment\u201D. I do not spend the time on internet posts that I
    do on writing that prints, and probably spend more time than most fixing problems
    as I have always had to work at spelling. My sentiment is sincere though even
    if my methods are casual and slack. I know I was much sharper on points of spelling
    and grammar when I worked as a copywriter, but I still seldom read anything that
    does not have some issues.\r\n\r\nI wish typophile didn\u2019t bump a post to
    the bottom of the thread when you edit it. (Sentence ends in preposition. Tisk.)"
  created: '2009-06-03 19:01:54'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: '"It" is a pronoun, not a preposition. You are forgiven.'
  created: '2009-06-03 19:10:29'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Thanks. I\u2019ll stop while I\u2019m behind."
  created: '2009-06-03 19:17:35'
- author:
    name: theorosendorf
    picture: 128241
  body: "I wrote a post to my blog with the risk of coming across as anti-Obama. I
    prefer to stay away from anything politically charged, but I couldn't think of
    another way to write the title while staying under a certain line length.\r\n\r\n\"Obama\u2019s
    Art with Dumb-Quote\"\r\n\r\nThe post is not very popular. I believe the title
    is to blame for that.\r\n\r\nAnyway, the point of the post is that the White House
    isn't immune to typographic ignorance.\r\n\r\nhttp://typedesk.com/2009/05/28/obamas-art-with-dumb-quote/"
  created: '2009-06-04 08:21:06'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "That is Ed Ruscha\u2019s art. The idea that you would critique fine art based
    on typographic standards is a bit pedantic. Calling this Obama\u2019s art is bizarre.\r\n\r\nIf
    the error had been in a White House press release or a museum\u2019s exhibition
    catalogue or wall text you would have a great point."
  created: '2009-06-04 09:44:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...typographic ignorance.</em>\r\n\r\nHark who's talking.\r\nThere were
    no such things as \"dumb quotes\" in 1983, when the Ruscha piece was painted.\r\n(The
    concept of \"dumb quotes\" didn't exist before desktop publishing, which began
    with the Apple Mac in 1984, or arguably the Laserwriter in 1985.)\r\n\r\nOne might
    just as well criticize Aldus for not having Italic capitals."
  created: '2009-06-04 15:51:06'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em> There were no such things as \u201Cdumb quotes\u201D in 1983, when the
    Ruscha piece was painted.</em>\r\n\r\nNot by that name, but surely professional
    typographers were viewing typewriters' straight quotes as a lesser, compromised
    design before 1983, no?"
  created: '2009-06-04 16:51:55'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: 'Possibly so, but we also might give the artist the benefit of the doubt.
    I might describe his lettering as having a mechanistic nievete. I would not assume
    that he did not make an informed choice, nor would I assume he made a distinction. '
  created: '2009-06-04 17:30:15'
- author:
    name: CameronWilliams
    picture: 117391
  body: "@eliason:\r\n\r\nNot really; the division was between \"typewritten copy\"
    and \"typography\". The former was used in print only to simulate a typewritten
    page, so the existence of \u201Cdumb quotes\u201D was not seen as a problem. "
  created: '2009-06-04 17:33:17'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "@Cameron: That makes sense.\r\n@jupiterboy: Well said (though not well spelled,
    again!)"
  created: '2009-06-04 17:48:31'
- author:
    name: typeidname
  body: "I appreciate the concerns raised in this thread. My sense is that some sorting
    out of ideas and concerns would be valuable.\r\n\r\nPersonally I think it is wonderful
    that people are taking an interest in letterforms, quite aside from whether they
    have a passion for their proper usage in the sense addressed above.\r\n\r\nWho
    will deny that letterforms are interesting in and of themselves?\r\n\r\nI imagine
    that some of these letterform-only people have produced innovations which have
    been taken up and further developed by some of those with more rigorously conventional
    standards.\r\n\r\nIsn't it well to have both sorts of people in the mix?\r\n\r\nI
    expect that many in the old scriptoria viewed movable type as the harbinger and
    in fact the bringer of a Dark Age which digital technology only deepens today.\r\n\r\nI
    wonder, for each of you, to what extent is this a discussion about aesthetics,
    <em>per se</em> (valid in my view) and to what extent a discussion about a fairly
    circumscribed subset of aesthetic concerns having to do with \"craft\" for lack
    of a better term (just as valid, in my view.)\r\n\r\nSome research into the evolution
    of aesthetic notions generally might serve well to inform this discussion, for
    those who care to take the time.\r\n\r\nI wonder whether a look at the history
    of the rise and fall of the Guilds might be valuable for those disposed to grant
    the artist a free hand in the use of type but who wish to maintain arbitrary standards
    for typographers as craftspeople?\r\n\r\nIndeed exploration of the putative distinctions
    between art and craft, between artist and craftsperson, might be good vectors
    along which to advance understanding of some of the issues underlying this thread.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-04 18:06:39'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Is this thread about spelling/punctuation/grammar or typography? I sometimes
    worry that my s/p/g is quite poor \u2013 I usually have to ask for help. However,
    the best kept text can be poorly designed."
  created: '2009-06-04 18:20:46'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "@Craig\r\nAlways a mess I guess. Serves me right for doing a search rather
    than using a dictionary. Back to painting.\r\n\r\n@1985\r\nThis thread is wandering
    all over the place. The initial post was grousing about the lack of care to detail
    in the use of quotation marks and apostrophes. There was some discussion of the
    role of the institution in setting high standards and how it is hard to demand
    excellence when it sometimes doesn\u2019t exist at the top.\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-04 18:34:48'
- author:
    name: theorosendorf
    picture: 128241
  body: "How about we initiate a petition to fix the way software handles quotes?\r\n\r\nWho
    are the companies that set precedence? Apple, Adobe, Microsoft?\r\n\r\nHow many
    petitioners would it take? 100,000?\r\n\r\nIn my opinion, the most problematic
    software is email. I'm sure most of you have attempted to type proper quotes in
    an email and find they somehow get dismantled along the way.\r\n\r\nWhy shouldn't
    a future version of HTML fix quotes?\r\n\r\nI say kill the hashes for most users.
    If programmers need them, they'll figure out how to get them back. Them guys are
    smarties."
  created: '2009-06-05 07:01:26'
- author:
    name: theorosendorf
    picture: 128241
  body: "Hey guys, I thought you really cared about this...\r\n\r\nI stand alone.
    Oh well.\r\n\r\nJust don't balk when I become rich and famous for ridding the
    world of dumb quotes."
  created: '2009-06-10 08:29:18'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "It seems to be a lost cause, Good luck though...\r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n\r\n[[http://www.thefontry.com|<em>...from
    the Fontry </em>]]"
  created: '2009-06-10 19:44:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I'll sign your petition.\r\nBut it would probably be better to start a URL
    \"bandumbquotes.com\" or find some way to use the social media du jour (is it
    still Twitter?) to drive the message home."
  created: '2009-06-12 16:35:42'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "The URL idea is cool. Hell, let's take it to the streets: We could do a Design
    Police style thing, print stickers saying BAN DUMB QUOTES* & stick them on all
    real life dumb quotes we run across, like on posters and stuff. Then get interviewed
    in cool video podcasts. Goal: Make dumb quotes look\u2026 dumb.\r\n\r\n*Or maybe:
    \"SMART QUOTES FOR SMART PEOPLE!\"\r\n(And the URL, of course.)"
  created: '2009-06-12 18:00:46'
- author:
    name: theorosendorf
    picture: 128241
  body: "I am so sorry for not replying. I bumped the RSS out of my inbox.\r\n\r\nIf
    you guys are up for it, I think it could be fun. I'll see if I can figure out
    how to message you two.\r\n\r\nTheo"
  created: '2009-08-29 05:07:14'
date: '2009-05-31 13:25:09'
node_type: forum
title: What can we, as typographers and designers do to decrease the growing acceptance
  of bad typography?

---
