---
author:
  name: ormishen
body: "I'm posting this now cos i just made the deadline for entries. Maybe it would
  have been a better idea to post it earlier so that any of you reading this could
  also participate in the competition (if you wanted to). \r\n\r\nBut oh well, it's
  too late to do anything about that. \r\n\r\nI at least thought it post my submission.
  What do you think? I kinda feel that the style of it doesn't really suit Goal.com,
  but i had this idea in my head and I wanted to complete that vision. Also it's kinda
  rushed because I'm currently hard at work on an essay for school which I probably
  should be working on instead of writing this!\r\n\r\nAny criticisms on what could
  be better would be much appreciated, for future reference. It's not really that
  complex but being a newbie it was pretty hard for me to get the G right. \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Omar-Ajmal_goal-logo_final_4584.jpg]\r\n\r\nAnd
  I thought it would be nice to post my favourite of all the submissions that I've
  seen. \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/image_hjlmaar_s_goal_logo_1_zoom_3790.jpg]\r\nMade
  by username: hjlmaar\r\n\r\n\r\nLink to contest site: http://www.crowdspring.com/goal"
comments:
- author:
    name: begsini
    picture: 110929
  body: "hi ormishen,\r\n\r\nIf you'd like feedback on your design work, it would
    probably be best to post it without any mention of design contests. \r\n\r\nA
    large contingent of this site's users do not condone doing professional design
    work for free, and would rather their peers not do so either. \r\n\r\nPlease read
    this for some background: [[http://www.aiga.org/content.cfm/position-spec-work|AIGA
    stance on spec work.]]\r\n\r\njarrod"
  created: '2009-06-02 18:54:28'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Design contests are bad and usually impossible to critique as you're being
    asked to design sans any real business context. \r\n\r\nAvoid crowdspring. It
    does neither you nor the client any good. "
  created: '2009-06-02 20:36:20'
- body: "I wholeheartedly agree with jarrod and aluminum. The sole purpose of my comment
    here is to ask you to withdraw your submission.\r\n\r\nDesign contests undermine
    the entire design profession. Companies that sponsor these contests are taking
    advantage of designers and disrespecting the amount of time, education, and expense
    it takes to produce quality design work.\r\n\r\nThe more designers that fall for
    this unscrupulous tactic to get them to work for free, the worse it is for all
    of us. On Crowdspring, you have a less than 2% chance of getting paid for your
    work. Please think about the viability of a career in design if all graphic designers
    worked for free?! We'd all be homeless - and still working 18 hour days!\r\n\r\nPlease
    don't go over to the dark side.\r\n\r\nPlease read about it in depth at: \r\nwww.no-spec.com"
  created: '2009-06-03 09:24:42'
- author:
    name: jakes
    picture: 116060
  body: This kind of contest only benefits you if you are a student that needs practice.
    Also good for resume if you win...which is slim.
  created: '2009-06-03 21:38:22'
- body: "It's terrible for your resume if the hiring manager/art director Googles
    it and finds out you participated in a contest. Your resume will go straight into
    the trash.\r\n\r\nIf you're a student that needs practice, a contest is not the
    kind of experience that will help you in the real world. The fundamental, crucial
    element of effective design is knowing your client's business needs and developing
    a design solution based on market research. In a contest, you're just guessing!
    That's design malpractice."
  created: '2009-06-03 23:20:47'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "> Your resume will go straight into the trash.\r\n\r\nWhy ?"
  created: '2009-06-03 23:23:41'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"This kind of contest only benefits you if you are a student that needs
    practice.\"\r\n\r\nNo, it doesn't. A logo contest rarely a has a real client with
    tangible business goals that the design needs to address. At best it's an aesthetic
    exercise.\r\n\r\n\"Also good for resume if you win...which is slim.\"\r\n\r\nI'd
    say mentioning design contests on a resume would do more harm than good in this
    industry. \r\n\r\n\"Why ?\"\r\n\r\nNot the best analogy, but it'd be like the
    union hiring a scab.\r\n\r\nTo be fair, there are firms that do, as a firm, participate
    in spec work. It's a much more rampant problem in the Architecture world. "
  created: '2009-06-03 23:56:13'
- body: "Nobody who's a career designer/art director will a) take you seriously or
    b) want anything to do with designers who participate in devaluing the whole profession
    by participating in contests. \r\n\r\n....in short, because of all the reasons
    already posted in this thread about why contests undermine the whole design profession.
    All the reasons are here: www.no-spec.com\r\n\r\nI learned this the hard way.
    There was this job I really wanted, so I submitted my portfolio and resume. They
    replied by asking me to do a spec job. I was young...so I eagerly began working
    on the project. I submitted the design work under deadline and waited for a reply.
    \r\n\r\nSilence. \r\n\r\nI kept pestering them. \r\n\r\nSilence.\r\n\r\nEventually
    I get a \"no thanks\" letter in the mail. Two months go by, and I'm at a holiday
    party with a friend. There's this 40-something woman telling a story about how
    they vet candidates to find out if they've got the confidence and experience to
    \"make the cut.\" \r\n\r\nHere's what they do: They offer all the applicants a
    spec job, and then they toss out all the resumes of the designers who actually
    do the spec job.\r\n\r\nYes, it's kinda mean. But I really get why it separates
    the confident, self-respecting designers from the wannabes. Think about it. Would
    ANY other professional accept this kind of offer? Would hundreds of accountants
    (in the hope of being paid) submit completed tax forms for a tax-doing contest?
    No.\r\n\r\nSo why do designers? \r\n"
  created: '2009-06-03 23:58:34'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "> \u201CWhy ?\u201D\r\n<em>Not the best analogy, but it\u2019d be like the
    union hiring a scab.</em>\r\n\r\nThat was exactly my impression. A turf war.\r\n\r\n<em>Would
    hundreds of accountants (in the hope of being paid) submit completed tax forms
    for a tax-doing contest? No.\r\n\r\nSo why do designers?</em>\r\n\r\nThis is a
    bit of an apple to oranges comparison. 10 accountants will produce 10 identical
    tax returns, while 10 logo designers will produce 10 different concepts. Any work
    that involves an element of creativity carries a risk that the deliverable will
    not be what the client wanted. For <em>some</em> clients this is unacceptable
    (for $ or for timing reasons) and so the spec work presents a viable alternative.
    \r\n\r\nWhy would designers be willing to do their work for free ? Because it's
    a good exercise, because they really need money, because spec contests provide
    very low barrier of entry to the professional market. Just few reasons from the
    top of my head. I flipped through 99designs pages some time ago, and they had
    entries that were head and shoulders above non-spec sketches that are being posted
    here now and then. Professional and spot on matching the brief. So seeing the
    request for a critique denied and a person being (effectively) talked down because
    he mentioned it was for a spec contest is, frankly, off-putting. The only thing
    this sort of commentary achieves is it alienates the person asking for help. I
    really really doubt that it will cause him to withdraw his contest entry and stop
    participating in any future contests.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-04 06:21:01'
- body: "Epsilicon, I gather from your comments that you didn't read the links provided
    here that examine this topic in depth? Is there any way I can persuade you to
    read further, or have you made up your mind that it's a \"turf war\"? (Which,
    by the way, couldn't be further from the truth.)\r\n\r\nOh, and...\r\n\r\nTen
    accountants will definitely produce ten VERY different tax returns! \r\n\r\nSpec
    work is not, nor ever has been, a way to earn money if a designer \"really needs
    money\". The chance is EXTREMELY high that your work will be stolen, replicated
    and/or built upon by the CEO's assistant or intern, however.\r\n\r\n<em>I flipped
    through 99designs pages some time ago, and they had entries that were head and
    shoulders above non-spec sketches that are being posted here now and then. Professional
    and spot on matching the brief.</em>\r\n\r\nThe work produced by spec designers
    is not identifiable by the aesthetic or technical quality of the design entries
    themselves. And anyone who knows how to type can request a critique on Typophile,
    so I'm not quite sure how you justify this comparison. \r\n\r\n<em>Any work that
    involves an element of creativity carries a risk that the deliverable will not
    be what the client wanted.</em>\r\n\r\nExactly. This is what separates a skilled,
    professional designer from the rest of the crowd. <strong>It's precisely the job
    of a designer to visually communicate EXACTLY what the client wants; that is the
    essence of good design,</strong> and it's not complete until the design is EXACTLY
    what the client wants to communicate. This relationship is missing in a spec or
    contest assignment, and there's no doubt that it cripples the design process.
    \r\n\r\nCreating effective design is not synonymous with creating beautiful graphics.
    Not even close. Design is not artistic expression, it's problem solving. In a
    design contest, designers are throwing logos against a wall hoping one sticks.
    \r\n\r\nIn a professional relationship, a designer identifies trends, researches
    competition, gets to know the company history, develops a profile of the target
    market, and then applies all this knowledge to create a design that becomes the
    voice and face of the company. \r\n"
  created: '2009-06-04 07:00:51'
- author:
    name: begsini
    picture: 110929
  body: "\r\n@epsilicon\r\n\r\nTen accountants will likely *not* produce ten identical
    tax returns, at least in the United States. Ten general contractors will not create
    identical home additions. Ten neurosurgeons will not experience the exact same
    conditions and outcome during a brain surgery.\r\n\r\nThese examples, like many
    others, require some combination of skill, talent and experience, just like professional
    design work. It would be unconscionable and impossible to ask - and get - any
    of these people to work for free on the CHANCE you might pay them.\r\n\r\nFurthermore,
    if you re-read my initial post, I simply stated that if feedback was desired on
    design work, it would be best to not mention that it's part of a contest. I also
    provided some context. No talking down to or critique denying.\r\n\r\njarrod\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-04 15:47:32'
- author:
    name: jakes
    picture: 116060
  body: "Depend on the company that you apply for...majority of them wouldn't know
    jack about art or design. They rely more on accomplishment more than anything.
    & if you have some kind of an award on your resume it will definitely WOW them.\r\n\r\nAs
    a student, it\u2019s a good way to bulk up your portfolio & gets some exposure.
    Yes, it's not a real world experience, but it\u2019s close. Not all contest but
    some have specific guideline that you have to follow. Yes you work for free but
    so does internship.\r\n\r\nAs a seasoned vet I wouldn't come close to enter this
    kind of contest but I can understand why some people do. I\u2019m not saying its
    right\u2026but hey, when you are newbie you have to do whatever it takes to get
    some experience under your belt & be notice.\r\n\r\n@Alaska, you are based it
    off one bad experience...I was in similar situation twice where I was tested before
    hiring & got hired one out of two.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-04 16:24:21'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I have no idea what kind of company you are applying for as a graphic designer
    that wouldn't know jack about art or design. Doesn't sound like a great place
    for a graphic designer to be working at ;o)\r\n\r\n\"As a student, it\u2019s a
    good way to bulk up your portfolio & gets some exposure. Yes, it\u2019s not a
    real world experience, but it\u2019s close. Not\"\r\n\r\nNo, it's not. It's really
    not. As a student, do some pro bono work if you must. Do a logo for your parents
    business or your brothers or your dorm-mates. Come up with some of your own product
    concepts and brand them. There are so many better ways to build a portfolio than
    design contests.\r\n\r\nFor that matter, there are so many better ways to pay
    for a logo than design contests. "
  created: '2009-06-04 16:52:13'
- author:
    name: jakes
    picture: 116060
  body: "so you telling me all of your clients know a lot about art/design? How many
    time have you designed a logo with different variation & they picked out the one
    that you like least. Not every designer gets to work for a fancy ad agency or
    with an art director you know.\r\n\r\nas a student, of course you should do work
    for relative & friend...more practice the better. Hell even enter contest if it
    gets your creative juice flowing. ;p)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-04 17:27:06'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: Alaskan, I have read through the no-spec and AIGA sites. I have a bit of a
    crunch at work, so it may take me few days to type my thoughts on the subject.
    Bear with me, I have some good arguments and would be interested in your take
    on them.
  created: '2009-06-05 22:26:45'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"so you telling me all of your clients know a lot about art/design?\"\r\n\r\n'Clients'
    that use sites like Crowdspring certainly do not know the value of design that
    is focused on their actual business goals. \r\n\r\n\"How many time have you designed
    a logo with different variation & they picked out the one that you like least.\"\r\n\r\nThat
    is perhaps one of the better examples as to why sites like Crowdspring are ridiculous.
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-05 23:29:04'
- author:
    name: iamcorey
  body: "<em>\"There\u2019s this 40-something woman telling a story about how they
    vet candidates to find out if they\u2019ve got the confidence and experience to
    'make the cut.'\"</em>\r\n\r\nI applied for a job which was redirected through
    AQUENT (the design talent agency). Their assessment program, for this particular
    client, involves me coming in for at least two hours and designing a couple of
    direct mail pieces from scratch. I cannot do this assignment from home (which
    is almost two hours away) and they will not pay for me to park on-site, which
    is three dollars per hour.\r\n\r\nWhat are all of your thoughts on design talent
    agencies and the like?"
  created: '2009-06-06 03:14:26'
- author:
    name: juddde
    picture: 117460
  body: "Posting in these forums must be terrifying. \r\n\r\nBtw, will anyone crit
    this poor guy's logo? Or has he been deemed unworthy?"
  created: '2009-06-06 03:53:44'
- author:
    name: picard102
    picture: 112137
  body: "<cite>What are all of your thoughts on design talent agencies and the like?</cite>\r\n\r\nI'd
    pass on that particular job. Personally, I don't do tests or speculative work.
    Either you like whats in my portfolio or you don't. "
  created: '2009-06-06 15:29:25'
- author:
    name: Kirs10
  body: "First to be fair I'll comment on the logo. The letters are spaced much too
    close, at smaller sizes they will morph together. The soccer ball seems just stuck
    on and not really incorporated into the design. My first thought is too suggest
    that the ball become the dot of dot com but that is probably trite. Soft marshmallow
    letter forms aren't my cup of tea but they seem to work in this design. I would
    however like to see some font alternatives for the tag line, I think there can
    be a better pairing.\r\n\r\nAnd now to the contest situation. This hit home for
    me as I'm currently wrestling with this myself. A friend asked if I would submit
    pieces to a local design contest. At first I said I would and was excited about
    the project. I knew the prize would not be equal compensation for the work, but
    the majority of my portfolio is of a niche subject and so I welcomed the opportunity
    to show some additional facets. I looked at it more as a volunteer project and
    was ok with that. That is until I re-read the rules and there it was...\"All submissions
    and rights to their use become the property of the SO-and-so Association.\" So
    the winner gets a mediocre prize and the losers get nothing AND loose the rights
    to their designs? I like what I created and where I looked into the history of
    the organization, their goals and other criteria, the illustrative aspect of the
    design could have other uses (it's a local landmark) Why would they even want
    the losing designs? I don't think my friend is trying to cheat artists, probably
    just went online and copied someone else's form. If it was an online contest I
    just wouldn't submit but now I have to find a way to tactfully decline.\r\n\r\nI
    don't think this article was mentioned earlier: [[http://www.fastcompany.com/node/641740]]\r\nI
    found it helpful.\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-07 04:54:53'
- author:
    name: picard102
    picture: 112137
  body: 'You could always tell your friend you didn''t have time to do an entry, unless
    you''ve told him you have already done one. Then you''ll probably just have to
    say it would be unethical to participate under the current agreement. '
  created: '2009-06-07 06:05:13'
- author:
    name: Ed_Aranda
    picture: 117416
  body: "I wouldn't enter a graphic design contest. It's just some a-hole marketing
    director's way of stealing creative work. Fine art contests aren't as bad. A still
    life isn't going to be very valuable to a company trying to sell things. I don't
    do spec work for freelance. I have done it for my agency, but they can usually
    sell it. \r\n\r\n<cite>Here\u2019s what they do: They offer all the applicants
    a spec job, and then they toss out all the resumes of the designers who actually
    do the spec job.<cite>\r\n\r\nI could see them doing this for a senior designer
    position, but it seems a bit overboard for an entry-level position. Entry-level
    designers aren't going to be in professional situations that would require them
    to make those kinds of decisions anyway. People coming right out of school are
    going to be overcompensating with extra enthusiasm and drive, especially if they
    think it will make or break their chances of landing a great job. I can't imagine
    any entry level candidate refusing to take part in some kind of design test during
    the interview process of a firm or agency they aspire to work for. By throwing
    all of those resumes out they could be missing out on some real talent and potential."
  created: '2009-06-19 00:14:15'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "<cite>.. I have a bit of a crunch at work, so it may take me few days to
    type my thoughts on the subject ..</cite>\r\n\r\nI have not forgotten about this
    thread, but I still severely lack time to write a comprehensive response. \r\n\r\nWhat
    I was going to ask though was simple. How come AIGA does not advice against using
    BrandStack (aka IncSpring) ? \r\n\r\nAs far as a well-being of the clients goes,
    the practice of conjuring brands out of thin air is no less \"damaging\" than
    letting them pick through a pile of (alleged) spec dung in a search of a pearl
    that matches their vision of branding. From the client's perspective it is exactly
    the same situation - they have a brand in mind and they go searching for its implementation,
    successfully or not.\r\n\r\nPoint being is that AIGA's concerns about spec work
    being damaging <em>to the clients</em> looks very much artificial, borderline
    hypocritical to me. If they really do mean it, they should've condoned prepackaged
    brand sales with even more vigor. \r\n\r\nIf you take this specific concern out
    of the picture, what effectively remains is a concern for the damage that cheap
    competing labor causes to the established professional community. It is perfectly
    reasonable and there is absolutely nothing wrong with it. But \"the spec work
    is hurting unsuspecting clients\" is not a valid argument. Clients get what they
    want. For some it's Walmart, for some it's Nordstrom.\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-19 23:22:31'
- author:
    name: reinis
    picture: 117264
  body: "This is a very interesting topic for me, since I too find the ease of participating
    in sites like crowdSPRING alluring. The arguments offered in this thread against
    contests and \"crowdsourcing\" don't support the categorical conclusions that
    it's always harmful. For instance, it's mentioned that \"on Crowdspring, you have
    a less than 2% chance of getting paid for your work.\" I can't imagine how you
    arrive at a probability like this, since the designs aren't picked randomly. It's
    also not like the clients don't provide input on crowdSOURCE: they rate the entries,
    comment on them and ask for specific improvements. I doubt describing it as 'spec
    work' is even accurate. Perhaps only if you submit your work at the last moment.\r\n\r\nRegarding
    guesswork: even if you're working with a \"real\" client, you can't read their
    mind, they might not even know what they want, and so on. You will always be guessing
    to some extent. It could be called \"design malpractice\" if all you were doing
    was shooting in the dark, but contests or crowdSPRING projects usually do provide
    requirements and some context to go on. It's a clear exaggeration to describe
    it as simply guessing.\r\n\r\nI do think that there are other better reasons against
    contests and crowdsourcing, but it's certainly not a black-and-white picture as
    some here present it."
  created: '2009-06-24 01:29:39'
- author:
    name: reinis
    picture: 117264
  body: "<em>I doubt describing it as \u2019spec work\u2019 is even accurate. Perhaps
    only if you submit your work at the last moment.</em>\r\n\r\nI realized I had
    the wrong definition in mind. It is spec work."
  created: '2009-06-24 05:31:11'
date: '2009-06-02 17:38:11'
node_type: forum
title: My submission for Goal Logo contest

---
