---
author:
  name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
  picture: 112329
body: "Continuation from: \r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/58118\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/58195\r\n\r\nLet
  me draft some conclusion from the two recent discussions.\r\n\r\nAiming to meet
  [[International Phonetic Alphabet|IPA]] font requirements the designer faces a range
  of particular challenges in terms of character coverage and glyph shaping. A special
  difficulty lies in the need to solve some Regular/Italics issues simultaneously
  with some Latin/Greek issues. Discussions revealed that obviously no entirely satisfying
  IPA typeface is known so far but we want to put meditation upon IPA misconceptions
  aside here and try to be pragmatic.\r\n\r\nAlthough I still find this kind of ghettoism
  not really good I announce the forthcoming release of a special Andron-IPA. This
  is how the glyphs discussed may appear in the two fonts:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Andron_ipa_glyphs_5347.jpg]\r\n\r\n(the
  depicted sequence is: /a/_/ae/_\\0250\\0251\\0252/_/b\\03B2/p/_/f/_\\0192/_/g/_\\0261/_\\03B8/v/\\03BD\\028B\\03C5/_\\0278/phi1/phi/x\\03C7
  ; /_ is just a small space for optical reasons)\r\n\r\nI plan to include the entire
  Latin char. repertoire (except Vietnamese) and the basic Greek lowercase alphabet,
  alongside with Spacing Mod. Letters, Comb. Diacritical Marks and the 1DC0-block.\r\n\r\nA
  few questions remain:\r\n1. Do you think the UPA blocks should be covered too?\r\n2.
  Is there a need for Bold, Bold Italics and Small capitals (in extra fonts)?\r\n3.
  The changed glyph for a (0061) causes repercussion for a number of precomposed characters,
  such as \xE4, \xE5, \xE0 and the like. Are users aware of this?\r\n4. Any further
  suggestions?\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Peter Farago
  body: "1. I do not know any practicing Uralicists, so I can't say. I have a healthy-sized
    overview of the Uralic language family written by various authors, and each seems
    to use a fairly ad-hoc system of notation. I could provide you an overview of
    each author's conventions, but I don't know how representative it is of the field
    and don't want to give you any wrong impressions.\r\n\r\n2a. Bold is the canonical
    way of emphasizing IPA text. Its inclusion is important.\r\n2b. Bold Italic would
    be a nice thing to have; I have occasionally had use for it.\r\n2c. There is no
    tradition of setting IPA in caps, and to do so would be extraordinarily challenging.
    This is probably best avoided.\r\n\r\n3. The remapping of italic characters will
    make an IPA-specific version of Andron useless for body text, so you would only
    need to worry about the IPA diacritics, and could safely ignore the extended Latin
    variants of the letter a.\r\n\r\n4. Some of your character shapes remain problematic.
    The right-facing serif on italic b is potentially confusable with \u0253. The
    bottom serif on \u0251 should match d; likewise the top serif of \u0252 should
    match p. I am still not sold on the shape your italic a - you mentioned that you
    found it in a medievalist scribal variation. Have you considered looking for double-story
    as in modern chancery hands?"
  created: '2009-06-04 20:18:01'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "The problem with caps and small caps is the fact that some letters are used
    already in a small caps version.  African languages already have a history of
    IPA or IPA-like caps, but they don't use small-cap I or L or R.  How might you
    distinguish those?\r\n\r\nAlso, the discussion and design of IPA fonts has piqued
    the interest of a well-known professor of linguistics when I asked him about it.
    \ Unfortunately he hasn't had time to give a full response and set of advice (especially
    on click consonants) but when I hear back I'll see if he's okay with me posting
    snippets of what he says on here."
  created: '2009-06-04 22:23:57'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>3. The remapping of italic characters will make an IPA-specific version
    of Andron useless for body text, so you would only need to worry about the IPA
    diacritics, and could safely ignore the extended Latin variants of the letter
    a.</cite>\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t understand this, I\u2019m afraid. My point was the
    demanded glyph alteration of italic a (0061) and the subsequent alteration to
    all(?) its precomposed brothers. Which combinations shall get affected by the
    change and which not? What is the logic of this?\r\n\r\n<cite>The right-facing
    serif on italic b is potentially confusable with \u0253</cite>\r\nThis could be
    changed, no problem.\r\n\r\n<cite>The bottom serif on \u0251 should match d </cite>\r\nIs
    that really important? It could be changed too but it would not look good. There
    is *a reason* for this detail. Maybe you\u2019re not used to it, but would it
    really do harm in this form?\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-05 10:50:58'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Andreas, an IPA-specific font will only be used for IPA and orthographies
    based on the IPA. For the IPA, you don't need to worry about \xE4, \xE5, \xE0,
    etc. since they are not part of the IPA.\r\n\r\nThere are cases in African orthographies
    for example that distinguish a and \u0251, and it is conceivable that diacritics
    may be used for such purposes as marking tones. In that case, you would need separate
    a with acute accent, \u0251 with acute accent, etc. I doubt that any orthography
    that distinguishes a and \u0251 also needs the combining ring diacritic above
    for either of them, but who knows.\r\n\r\nThe point that Peter makes is that not
    counting these very specialist uses, no one will use an IPA-specific font for
    the body text in any language that normally prefers a single-storey a for the
    italic, so you don't normally have to worry about \xE4, \xE5, \xE0, etc."
  created: '2009-06-05 13:30:48'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "None of what follows is really a font designers problem, but those of us
    who set type are apt to run into all sorts of strange constructions, requiring
    \"accents\" in all sorts of places, and over all sorts of characters, including
    IPA characters.\r\n\r\nOne that comes to mind, dimly, and with pain, was an issue
    of <cite>Poetics Today</cite>, where authors were trying to analyze sounds, metrics,
    rhythm patters, perhaps in new ways, and all mixed together. Best I could tell,
    they borrowed from every font file they could think of, to come up with symbols
    & accents that 'sort of' represented what they were talking about.\r\n\r\nThis
    one became an exception to our policy that all issues of a journal are charged
    at the same rate. And a little flag to me that you can never have too many characters
    in a font . . ."
  created: '2009-06-05 21:20:05'
- author:
    name: Peter Farago
  body: "<em>Is that really important? It could be changed too but it would not look
    good. There is *a reason* for this detail. Maybe you\u2019re not used to it, but
    would it really do harm in this form?</em>\r\n\r\nThere are basically two ways
    to look at this. As Charles said in the previous thread, the rotated characters
    were originally simply sorts that had been physically rotated 180\xB0. As such,
    they would have the serif structure of the original glyphs from which they were
    derived. An approach faithful to the original use of metal type would probably
    do the same thing, but in this case I don't think that nostalgic verisimilitude
    would have any broad appeal.\r\n\r\nThe seemingly rotationally symmetric letters
    in our latin script (p/d, b/q, n/u, and to some extent f/j, s, x, z) are of course
    not actually symmetric - their serif structure changes to reflect their historically
    hand-drawn forms, and give a since of orientation and gravity to the face. Victor
    Gaultney applied these principles to the turned glyphs in Gentium to good effect.
    I think the same reasoning could be applied to a more traditional typeface like
    Andron. (Maybe Matthew will show you his take on the issue in Corunna.)\r\n\r\nRedrawing
    the glyphs would be a lot of work, the effort unlikely to be noticed by the average
    linguist, and would be largely without precedent among current IPA faces. Aesthetically,
    however, it's the right thing to do."
  created: '2009-06-06 05:11:10'
- author:
    name: Peter Farago
  body: Unfortunately, I don't own a copy, by it might also be interesting to see
    what choices the creators of <a href="http://www.typotheque.com/fonts/fedra_serif_phonetic/about/concept">Fedra
    Serif IPA</a> made.
  created: '2009-06-06 06:00:17'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "So far unmentioned, but I think your IPA chars are <em>beautifully</em> drawn.
    There.\r\n\r\nI'm having some reservations on the italic 'a' -- I like it, but
    the authors I work with are a fussy lot.\r\n\r\n<cite>3. The changed glyph for
    a (0061) causes repercussion for a number of precomposed characters, such as \xE4,
    \xE5, \xE0 and the like. Are users aware of this?</cite>\r\n\r\nProbably not.
    To differentiate unambiguously between regular 'a' and the script one ('alpha'),
    they simply expect a slanted 'a', even in combos such as '\xE6'. A-ring is not
    an IPA character, but you should be prepared to have any amount (sane or insane)
    of diacritics attached.\r\n(Extending up to the '\u0268' -- the 'stroked i'. Create
    one without the dot.)\r\n\r\nI'm with Charles, I've never seen the IPA character
    set in use as small caps. It wouldn't work -- there is a number of IPA glyphs
    that are already used as small caps. Unfortunately, writers HAVE discovered the
    benefits of bold and bold italics.\r\n\r\nDo you have any insights on creating
    a glottal stop? It probably should use the '?' glyph as a base form, and it occurs
    both mirrored and vertically swapped -- all 4 orientations."
  created: '2009-06-07 15:46:06'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "One thing to remember about phonetic characters \"borrowed\" for other uses
    -- such as the written form for languages that historically never had a written
    form -- is that acute, grave, and macron are often used to signal tone, rising,
    falling, and the macron sometimes used for either no tone, or, perversely, a hard
    vowel. If you're going to do an IPA version, it might be well to include the accents,
    too.\r\n\r\n* * *\r\n\r\nI agree it is a beautiful font, and worth the money.
    Unfortunately, these days my customers (1) won't use a font they don't have on
    their computer, and (2) seemingly won't buy anything over US $39.95. For example,
    I bought Trinite to set some books for Richard Eckersley; unfortunately, while
    many current designers admire the font, none will buy it & it sits primarily unused,
    unless I do the design as well as the composition for a book."
  created: '2009-06-07 22:50:09'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Here are the examples of the turned a (open central vowel) and the turned
    m (close back vowel) being optically corrected instead of simply turned.  It doesn't
    seem like much but it really helps the harmony of the font as a whole.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ipa_samplea_3990.png]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ipa_sample_5929.png]"
  created: '2009-06-08 00:26:34'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Matthew, I agree completely that it is necessary to optically adjust turned
    and flipped letters, but I think you are over-compensating. Your turned a is too
    much like an e and no longer sufficiently a-like. And while I think the bottom
    of the turned m should be modelled on the u, I think the identity of the letter
    is better served by retaining the flat serifs at the top.\r\n\r\nHere are the
    same letters from my Brill typeface:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/brilltturned_5959.gif]\r\n\r\n[I'll
    post a full showing of the Brill IPA characters when I have finalised them.]\r\n\r\n\r\nAndreas,
    I really like your IPA variant italic a, but I agree with Theunis that this form
    is probably too distinctive from the roman a for comfort."
  created: '2009-06-08 03:20:36'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "That's spot on for the problem with a lot of the IPA set: although the turned
    'm' technically is based on the 'u', it has historically been represented by ...
    a turned 'm'. No doubt for the simple reason that could be done pre-outlined-fonts
    with some cut-and-paste (or, in extremis, by re-inserting the paper upside down
    into your typewriter and typing an 'm').\r\n\r\n\"IPA symbol is a turned letter
    m, although given its relation to the sound represented by the letter u, it can
    be considered a u with an extra \"bowl\".\" ([[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Close_back_unrounded_vowel]])\r\n\r\nSo
    in a typographic and technical sense, Matt (Guifa) is right to draw a double 'u',
    but alas ... it looks weird, and the fussy lot I referred to earlier will surely
    <em>demand</em> their usual 'm'."
  created: '2009-06-08 09:49:39'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "I've tried a variety of different styles for the rotated letters (for example,
    finishing the rotate a with the same stroke as an e/c, or the rotate a, or more
    similar to the top of the c or r) before settling on that one.  I don't really
    consider any solution perfect yet, obviously, these are characters that haven't
    gone through the millions of iterations that the rest of the alphabet has to \"fit\"
    in the alphabet, so I'm not trying to push my solution as \"the\" solution, just
    one of many.  While Theunis finds the double-u form weird, I've generally found
    the rotated form weirder (though the flat top-left serifs on brill make it much
    less distracting)\r\n\r\nI'm somewhat of the opinion that the reason many of these
    rotated shapes have been canonized is in large part due to there not being a major
    linguist who is also greatly interested in typography who sat down and looked
    at things as in depth as, say, Knuth did with mathematics and essentially defined
    the standard.  For that reason I think most linguists would be quite open to seeing
    different designs -- the problem is until very recently not many people have tried.
    \ Many will be willing to help out time-permitting, I've been consulting with
    a few including some who have been happily sending me pages of IPA text to test
    out newer versions."
  created: '2009-06-08 12:20:57'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Sorry, Matt -- my overly sour and critical authors must've made me overly
    sour and critical!\r\n\r\n<cite>..I\u2019ve been consulting with a few..</cite>\r\n\r\nYes,
    that's the way to go. Best feedback you can get is right out of the linguistic
    field.\r\n\r\n(After all, the worst thing that can happen with a plethora of IPA
    fonts to choose between is a client's preference for a specific implementation.
    Like the one that requested \"Gill Sans but with a regular one\".)"
  created: '2009-06-08 14:20:06'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Theunis, I didn't think you were too sour and critical, actually I thought
    I might have come off as too brazen.\r\n\r\nWhat I meant about finding what \"fits\"
    which will just take time and experimentation, the latter of which a lot of don't
    want or can't afford to do (the free fonts are the most guilty of this, though
    understandably).  I'm not being critical, just pointing out how things are/have
    come to be."
  created: '2009-06-08 15:29:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hmm. I thought I'd made up my mind about the turned m, but now you have me
    thinking about it again I'm leaning toward the double-u form for the Brill font.
    Here's a comparison:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/koripa_4976.gif]\r\n\r\nI
    don't think the double x-height serifs of the turned m form are a problem in themselves,
    since IPA already includes some smallcap forms that present the same feature.
    And I think this feature should be normative for other rotated letters such as
    r. But the phonetic relationship to the u makes the double-u shape more sensible
    for the \u2018turned m\u2019."
  created: '2009-06-09 00:12:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Question: if the \u2018turned m\u2019 takes a double-u form on the basis
    of its relationship to the u vowel, what about the velar approximant consonant
    \u2018turned m with right leg\u2019 (U+0270)? My inclination is that this would
    <em>not</em> follow the same form, but would retain the double serifs of the turned
    m form. In other words, the form would be determined by the phonetic value, not
    by similarity of shape."
  created: '2009-06-09 00:18:52'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "John, the 'turned m with right leg' should follow the same form as the 'turned
    m' in my opinion. It's because the sounds they represent are actually related,
    although that's hard to tell from the phonetic description alone.\r\n\r\nThe 'turned
    m with right leg' is the symbol frequently used for a semivowel in Korean, the
    first component of \uC758, that corresponds to the close vowel represented by
    the 'turned m', \uC73C. This is like the relationship between 'j' and 'i', or
    between 'w' and 'u' in IPA. Technically, these 'semivowels' behave as consonants
    and are called approximants to distinguish from 'true' semivowels, hence the phonetic
    description that obscures the relationship to the vowel sound.\r\n\r\nI agree
    that the 'turned m' should use a double-u form, as that's exactly how I think
    of it. The Korean vowel that is represented by that symbol is most often romanized
    with a variation of 'u', such as '\u016D' or 'eu'."
  created: '2009-06-09 01:11:51'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Thanks, Brian: that is a very helpful analysis, and I agree with your reasoning.'
  created: '2009-06-09 01:22:09'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Similarly, I think the symbol for the labial-palatal approximant, which we
    can think of as the 'semivowel' corresponding to 'y', should be thought of as
    a 'u with a tail' rather than an 'upside-down h', and be designed accordingly.\r\n\r\nAll
    this is primarily because I think of these symbols as variations on 'u'. It's
    certainly not because I want to avoid flat-top serifs at x-height. Other symbols
    like the 'upside-down r' should retain their flat-top serifs, not to mention letters
    like 'x-height capital I'."
  created: '2009-06-09 01:26:29'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "When you think about it (or rather, pronounce it), it's still derived out
    of the u (in Spanish, interestingly, the w is often pronounced using one of those
    three options, \u0261, \u0263, or \u0270).  The labialized velar approximants
    have the double-v form (and v>u) which make a more concrete connection.  (though
    it might have been more visually logical to have the labialized ones use the u-form
    and the non-labialized the v-form, but I digress).\r\n\r\nThough the rs don't
    look that odd with the positionally-corrected serifs placed on them:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ipa_r_4516.png]"
  created: '2009-06-09 01:29:42'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I would never say never to 'upside-down r' and others adopting 'positionally-corrected
    serifs'. Gentium does this, for example. And arguably, it looks good that way.\r\n\r\nMy
    concern is that the change in detail might imperceptively hinder the identification
    of the symbol for those who think of it as an upside-down r. I know it bugs me
    a little bit because I'm expecting an upside-down r, but the details are different.
    Then there's the fact that with the number of 'small cap' symbols, flat-top serifs
    at x-height are used anyway for IPA."
  created: '2009-06-09 01:44:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I think the turned r with \u2018positionally correct\u2019 serif is problematic.
    There is only one single-stroke x-height letter and that is i. Remember that we
    gain more information on Latin letter identity from the top half of the letters,
    so having the double-serif of the turned r is a useful cue that we're dealing
    with something other than a variant of i."
  created: '2009-06-09 03:11:26'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Matthew, you have convinced me about the 'm'/'u' issue. :-) Yes, it's subtle,
    but it <em>does</em> look better in running text.\r\n\r\nTip o' the hat to those
    amongst you that create fonts from scratch. You would not believe the amount of
    time it took me to create this capital open e (as required in the orthography
    of a language called \"Kabiye\"), using pilferaged parts of another typeface ...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/opene-cap_4103.PNG]"
  created: '2009-06-10 11:45:57'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: A trick for the open e.  Take the c and redraw the curves so that there is
    no extrema on the left hand side (eg, you have points at 12o'clock and 6 o'clock,
    with the terminals at 1-2 o'clock and 4-5 o'clock).  Now you can "squash" the
    c by simply moving the bottom part up and the curve will almost perfectly maintain
    its weight.  Repeat and drop it and come up with a nice middle section.  You'll
    need to tweak it a bit still probably, but it gets 95% of the work done quickly.
  created: '2009-06-10 13:22:29'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>Does anyone think that that stealing Cyrillic Small Letter Ze (\u0437)
    for Latin Small Letter Reversed Open E (\u025C) is a reasonable course of action?</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    (graphic) designer has chose Minion for the typeface. There is an instance or
    two, in 10-point *italic* type, of an \"Latin Small Letter Reversed Open E.\"
    First proof is due in three weeks; that includes everything, setting the text,
    laying out pages, dealing with the rotten images, etc. The comp has Fontlab, but
    can't really draw.\r\n\r\nSo yes.\r\n\r\nWhat would they do in the meal era? Maybe
    not only use that character, but probably from another font as well. (Neither
    would be Minion, of course.) Textual harmony . . . out the window."
  created: '2009-06-11 02:22:05'
- author:
    name: Peter Farago
  body: "Jongseong:\r\n\r\n<em>...the fussy lot I referred to earlier will surely
    demand their usual \u2019m\u2019.\r\n\r\nMy concern is that the change in detail
    might imperceptively hinder the identification of the symbol for those who think
    of it as an upside-down r.</em>\r\n\r\nReally, I wouldn't worry too much. It makes
    sense for an editor to be fussy about preserving meaningful contrasts in letter
    shape (like a vs. \u0251, and v vs. \u028B vs. u), and it makes sense for a typographer
    to worry about making the Greek characters harmonize with the Latin, but I don't
    think any editor is likely to be bothered by altering the serif structure, which
    is not by itself meaningful, and the harmonization of serif structure on the turned
    letters is generally pleasing.\r\n\r\nSo, I vote for the modified r series. The
    same goes especially for \u025F and \u0284, which should really be based on a
    stroked dotless j and not a turned f, and for \u028C, whose vertex ought to mirror
    capital A, not lowercase v. Not quite sure what to do about the ascender on \u028E,
    though, since nothing else in the lowercase alphabet has a diagonal ascender.
    Should it resemble the ascender on f? The ascender on \xF0? Should it keep its
    turned-y form?\r\n\r\nThe one exception is the small cap letters, as you point
    out. I had a long think about what the best way to deal with them is, and I fully
    agree that they must retain the serif structure of their uppercase counterparts.
    Various authors have substituted the Turkish undotted i (\u0131) or a latinized
    iota (which usually looks something like a short, uncrossed t) for IPA [\u026A].
    Pullum and Ladusaw say that the latin iota is obsolete in the Phonetic Symbol
    Guide, and undotted i presents obvious problems for fonts which need fi ligatures
    which are frankly too irritating to deal with. (There is part of me that still
    wants to see what \u0299, \u0262, \u029B, \u029C, \u026A, \u0274, \u0276, \u0280,
    \u0281, and \u028F look like in a parallel universe where they lived as minuscules
    their whole lives. I do realize that this is a ridiculous premise, though. Their
    shapes look horrible sandwiched between the baseline and x-height. The International
    Phonetic Association is made of phoneticians, not typographers.)\r\n\r\n<em>On
    Open E</em>\r\n\r\nDoes anyone think that that stealing Cyrillic Small Letter
    Ze (\u0437) for Latin Small Letter Reversed Open E (\u025C) is a reasonable course
    of action?\r\n\r\n[Edit: Apologies for posting weirdness: I edited my post and
    I think it became reordered with respect to Charles reply]"
  created: '2009-06-11 02:30:17'
- author:
    name: Peter Farago
  body: 'Charles: What, in principle, would be the difference between a Reversed Open
    E designed with the IPA in mind, and a Cyrillic lowercase Ze? I am asking sincerely,
    as I don''t know much about Cyrillic other than that it appears to have several
    useful lettershapes with a ready-made glaze of Latinization. Please educate me!'
  created: '2009-06-11 02:34:31'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: Ah, sorry. We need John or Brian for that. I'm only a practical sort.
  created: '2009-06-11 02:59:16'
- author:
    name: Ross Mills
  body: "To address an as-yet unanswered question:\r\n<em>Do you have any insights
    on creating a glottal stop? It probably should use the \u2019?\u2019 glyph as
    a base form, and it occurs both mirrored and vertically swapped \u2014 all 4 orientations.</em>\r\n\r\nPredictably,
    its not necessarily as simple as that. It depends on what language, what orthography,
    is being supported.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/huronia_glottals_6594.png]\r\n\r\nHere
    are a few of the options. In this case, somewhat Americanist-centric (that is,
    these are glottals used for American orthographies) and may exclude some. There
    are a couple of major distinctions; glottalization of a base character, usually
    with a comma accent. Non-diacritic glottals are various and sundry. Of those shown,
    only the last two have no encoding, not withstanding potential smallcap forms.
    Of course, regional preferences may influence particular modifications, which
    may or may not mean using a differently encoded form, or stylistic alternate (eg.
    whether or not a lowercase glottal has a serif on the bottom or not in a otherwise
    seriffed font)."
  created: '2009-06-11 07:01:00'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'gelded question: did it hurt?'
  created: '2009-06-11 07:31:14'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "I need to return to the a-problem. There are some statements about how to
    deal with the italic a-diacritics: \r\n\r\nJongseong: <cite>\u201Dan IPA-specific
    font will only be used for IPA and orthographies based on the IPA. For the IPA,
    you don\u2019t need to worry about \xE4, \xE5, \xE0, etc. since they are not part
    of the IPA.\u201C</cite>\r\n\r\nPeter Farago: <cite>\u201DThe remapping of italic
    characters will make an IPA-specific version of Andron useless for body text,
    so you would only need to worry about the IPA diacritics, and could safely ignore
    the extended Latin variants of the letter a.\u201C</cite>\r\n\r\nTheunis de Jong:
    <cite>\u201DA-ring is not an IPA character, but you should be prepared to have
    any amount [\u2026] of diacritics attached.\u201C</cite>\r\n\r\nThere seem two
    concepts competing unconciously: a) an IPA-font has to be seen as an \u201DIPA-only-font\u201C,
    ignore anything not IPA-specific. b) Provide as much characters as you can to
    add value to the font.\r\n\r\nIn my opinion it is reprehensible to dwell on the
    \u201DSplendid-isolation\u201C concept for IPA fonts. The IPA character set is
    genetically connected to Latin, some glyphs are related to Greek and Cyrillic,
    a selection is used in proprietary mixtures for certain orthographies \u2026  Following
    that scenario the font designer shall aim to accomodate any of the possible uses
    of the font, of which IPA use is *one only*.\r\nSo, how to deal best with the
    italic a diacritics?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Andron_aaa_italic_5561.jpg]"
  created: '2009-06-11 09:02:56'
- author:
    name: Ross Mills
  body: "<em>did it hurt?</em>\r\n\r\nIt was given local anesthetic and told how handsome
    it was.\r\nIt looks a bit detached now, but at least doesn't spray the furniture
    anymore. "
  created: '2009-06-11 20:17:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Peter: <em>What, in principle, would be the difference between a Reversed
    Open E designed with the IPA in mind, and a Cyrillic lowercase Ze?</em>\r\n\r\nI
    don't think there is a difference \u2018in principle\u2019, but there may be a
    difference in the context of specific typefaces. Since most of the typefaces I
    design include both Latin and Cyrillic support, my usual approach to the reversed
    open e is to make it a composite of the lowercase Cyrillic ze, and then to test
    it alongside the other extended Latin letters and look at it relative to the open
    e. In many designs, this approach will work fine, but not in all.\r\n\r\nThe treatment
    of terminals is such that the reversed open e is not, in fact, a flipped open
    e, even in a typeface with a vertical axis. The Cyrillic ze normatively has a
    serif terminal at the top in roman types (but not in italics) and a ball or similarly
    heavy terminal at the bottom <em>or a flourish terminal</em> (the latter is definitely
    not a candidate for the IPA letter). The presence of the serif at the top is useful
    in the IPA letter, since it helps make the distinction between the reversed open
    e and the turned open e (U+1D08). Here are the three forms in the Brill type,
    in which the reversed open e is (currently) a direct composite of the Cyrillic
    ze:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bropene_5389.jpg]"
  created: '2009-06-12 05:24:38'
- author:
    name: Peter Farago
  body: The serifed upper terminal seems to be more characteristic of uppercase forms
    (compare latin C with c). Since most of the Cyrillic lowercase is just a scaled-down
    version of the uppercase, with the uppercase serif structure intact, and since
    the IPA is meant to harmonize with the latin lowercase (with the above-noted exception
    of the small cap letters), I really do wonder what the appropriate structure is.
    Should the upper terminal resemble the arm of a lowercase a? Should the lower
    terminal resemble the arm of the lowercase script g? Should the upper terminal
    be undecorated with a ball terminal on the bottom, to resemble a turned c? Or
    does the Cyrillic form just look right in the lowercase latin context?
  created: '2009-06-14 17:58:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'In roman type there are typically two kinds of termination to horizontal
    strokes or curves: a vertical serif terminal and some form of heavier terminal
    (lacrymal, ball, wedge, etc.). Both are used in lowercase letters, with the serif
    terminal typically found in the lowercase s <em>regardless of which terminal form
    is found elsewhere in a, c, etc..</em> Hence, I don''t find the vertical serif
    at the top of the reversed open e to be alien to the Latin lowercase.'
  created: '2009-06-14 22:59:05'
- author:
    name: Peter Farago
  body: Thanks, John. That's well reasoned, and Open E and lowercase s do seem to
    have something in common in terms of curve structure. Is Brill an exclusive commission,
    or will it be available to the general public?
  created: '2009-06-14 23:31:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: The Brill typeface is a custom design for the Dutch academic publishers of
    the same name, but I believe their intention is to make it available for non-commercial
    use by scholars and students.
  created: '2009-06-15 03:46:25'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "@ Mr. St\xF6tzner:\r\nSir, you're a master of your craft, for sure! I feel
    honored having met you in Dublin.\r\n\r\nHaving said that, if the IPA version
    of Andron is \xE1lso to be used for copy text, I believe, that italic a won't
    work. Given, that quite often IPA is used quite interspersed in text (giving pronunciation
    of individual words) rather than whole passages (e.g. transcription of a recording),
    I believe something ought to be done about the a (but I might have missed arguments
    from previous discussions). \u2014 Not that I wouldn't love the outline of that
    italic a, it's beautiful \u2014 for some display or \"fancy\" font. [Yes, yes,
    IPA \xEDs fancy..., I know].\r\n\r\nI actually reading about the back close approximant,
    I wanted to post a comment not to forget the connection between j and \u025F,
    however I see Peter picked up the issue already.\r\n\r\nI cannot share his view
    about the \u026A to be rather designed Turkish \u0131-like: his major concern
    is the \uFB01. However, an IPA specialist font should n\xE9ver use glyph shapes
    for f, or for any character as a matter of fact, that need ligation. (Slight contextual
    shaping might be ok). The reason is clearly the abundance, alas, sprawling and
    spawning of diacritics in phonetic works. Best to use an f with a narrow ascender,
    as it has been already explored in 19th, 20th century metal type. \r\n\r\n\r\nSzabolcs\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-20 22:05:01'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "The regular 'f' (bottom) and my 'phonetic' f.alt :-)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/f-alt_5469.PNG]\r\n\r\nI
    prefer to use the regular form (of course) but when the next character has a diacritic
    of some kind, I use the f.alt."
  created: '2009-08-21 09:22:32'
date: '2009-06-04 17:44:51'
title: Phonetic font issues reloaded

---
