---
author:
  name: mattmc
  picture: 114405
body: "I've put together a [[http://bit.ly/nonprofittype|survey to start gathering
  feedback about the idea for a Non-profit Type Foundry.]]\r\n\r\nI've love to hear
  some thoughts on the idea. Here's a quick explanation:\r\nOur idea is to create
  a non-profit type foundry that runs on donations, sponsorships, and/or grants. We'd
  like to release typefaces to be used freely on the web or in print. It is important
  to us that type designers are paid for their work, so our idea is to raise the money
  required to commission custom typefaces from highly skilled and respected designers.\r\n\r\nOur
  first goal: increase the typographic diversity on the web by providing high quality
  fonts to web designers free of charge. We intend the fonts to be used through methods
  like @font-face, SiFR, Cufon, etc...\r\n\r\nThe big difference between this idea
  and other websites that give away free fonts (i.e. DaFont): we believe in quality
  over quantity. We'd only be commissioning typefaces from top type designers. We
  wouldn't just be posting user submitted fonts.\r\n\r\n\r\n[[http://bit.ly/nonprofittype|link
  to the survey]]"
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Sorry, I think for-profit foundries owned by type designers is a better idea.\r\nOngoing
    royalties for many, rather than one-time commission for a few.\r\nSo, while I
    appreciate that you are considering \"fair pay for fair work\", I don't think
    it's really fair, because you are paying a small amount to freeze type designers
    out of a larger amount.\r\n\r\nWhy don't you think type designers should be entitled
    to royalties?"
  created: '2009-06-10 04:01:12'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\"A Non-profit Type Foundry\" \r\n\r\nI thought this was going to be a post
    about Bitstream. \r\n\r\nOh well. ;-) "
  created: '2009-06-10 04:27:29'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Serious answer. What value would the foundry provide? The model where a corporate
    donor commissions type and puts it into the public domain seems to work quite
    well - Gnome, Google, Red Hat etc., Unless the font is named "Obama 2012" I doubt
    many individuals would be willing to donate - case in point being the poor returns
    enjoyed by shareware fonts during the 90's.
  created: '2009-06-10 04:31:50'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "If your goal is really to increase the diversity of fonts on the web, you\u2019re
    wasting your time. One can\u2019t produce enough fonts this way to solve the web
    font dilemma. At best you can just create another Verdana for people to use until
    they\u2019re sick of it. Lino/Mono/WeNeedToRebrando-type allow embedding with
    EOT. FontShop and Font Bureau have both said that they\u2019re actively working
    toward web embedding in the near future. If you really want to increase the diversity
    of fonts on the web it would make more sense to raise funds to develop existing
    font-delivery systems."
  created: '2009-06-10 04:43:59'
- author:
    name: Ed_Aranda
    picture: 117416
  body: The costs would be astronomical to make it worthwhile for the font designer.
    That's like saying you're going to commission a new software package from Adobe
    for a one-time fee, to be released for unlimited public consumption. Not too realistic.
  created: '2009-06-10 04:53:19'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Well, here's one vote for \"I like the idea\".\r\n\r\nCan it be pulled off?
    I have no idea."
  created: '2009-06-10 06:10:04'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "I've seen some free fonts and some others that can probably be licensed or
    acquired for the purpose that have much to recommend them but need fixing badly
    for screen use. Hinting, kerning, etc.\r\nIs it easier to start out with something
    and then improve it, as opposed to starting from scratch?\r\nI pose this question
    to those with the technical background and expertise to answer.\r\nWhat has your
    experience been?"
  created: '2009-06-10 06:19:10'
- author:
    name: gerry_leonidas
    picture: 128150
  body: "There is a precedent: the Greek Font Society mutated into a non-profit organisation,
    and has been active for some years now in that form. Note, however:\r\n- the members
    have \"real\" day jobs;\r\n- the Society has produced publications where typeface
    design was one constituent of the project, but not the main deliverable (a complex
    publication was the final object);\r\n- the fonts are in the greater part carry-ons
    from a previous, commercial phase of the organisation, or developed within larger,
    funded, projects (e.g. the publication referenced above).\r\n\r\nI am happy to
    be corrected, but I'd be surprised if any entity publishing fonts under the Open
    Font License (as the GFS do) have any income worth mentioning from fonts directly.
    In all such cases, typefaces are the means, not the objective of the activity.
    For example, the SIL and the SBL both have produced admirable typefaces under
    an OFL or similar status; but they're linguists or scholars who need good tools,
    for whom well-designed typefaces make their core work better; not typeface designers
    who see fonts as the end product of their activity. \r\n\r\nI would argue that
    the people who develop typefaces under a \"Free Software\" banner fall in the
    same category: typefaces are a service (and an argument point, I'd add); but I
    wouldn't discuss this unless we can include the \"who pays your mortgage?\" question
    in the discussion. \r\n\r\nAt the other end, entities like Microsoft and Adobe
    fall into the same wide group of developers for who fonts are enabling services:
    \"if you can read easily off the screen, you might make my business plan more
    likely\" or \"I'll give you free, extended typefaces that work reliably to make
    the prices of our software (and its inexcusable installer) easier to stomach\".
    In both cases, the wide briefs and substantial development resources with which
    their typefaces are being developed largely negates the need for general use OFL/Free
    typefaces. \r\n\r\nIn my mind the SIL, and the SBL have shown that there may be
    room for developing on a model where the fonts do not make a profit in specific
    niches, with well-defined needs, where a community of users will not be serviced
    by the brief of the OEM typefaces, but is willing to provide, however indirectly,
    funds for tool development.\r\n\r\nBut for typefaces *outside the font-as-service
    niches*, if your design is aimed at typographers or graphic designers, there's
    two options if you develop for free:\r\n1: your design is not good, in which case
    whoever uses the fonts is a fool; and\r\n2: your design is good, in which case
    by making it freely available you devalue your own, and by association the work
    of other designers. Who's the fool now?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-10 11:08:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...you devalue your own, and by association the work of other designers.</em>\r\n\r\nThat
    doesn't stop type designers taking OEM commissions.\r\nThe bait is big enough,
    financially, and there is kudos attached to achieving assured rapid wide distribution
    for a design, rather than waiting for incremental returns on a speculative investment. "
  created: '2009-06-10 16:18:48'
- author:
    name: mattmc
    picture: 114405
  body: "<cite>\"Sorry, I think for-profit foundries owned by type designers is a
    better idea.\r\nOngoing royalties for many, rather than one-time commission for
    a few.\r\nSo, while I appreciate that you are considering \u201Cfair pay for fair
    work\u201D, I don\u2019t think it\u2019s really fair, because you are paying a
    small amount to freeze type designers out of a larger amount.\r\nWhy don\u2019t
    you think type designers should be entitled to royalties?\"</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    idea for a non-profit type foundry isn't in opposition to for-profit foundries.
    I have no objections to royalties for designers. This is more about just starting
    <strong>one</strong> non-profit type foundry as a way to distribute high quality
    free typefaces for use on the web. There is obviously a problem with font licensing
    and distribution for use on the web at the moment, this is one step towards trying
    to solve that (obviously not the full solution though)\r\n\r\nThere are plenty
    of for-profit type foundries that put out great work. This is just a question
    about whether it would be possible to do it another way."
  created: '2009-06-10 16:36:37'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: ">This is more about just starting one non-profit type foundry\u2026\r\n\r\nI
    think\u2014as some other comments have already pointed out\u2014that there already
    at least two non-profit type foundries in the world\u2026 the Greek Font Society
    and SIL (perhaps there are even more). There certainly is the disparate Free font
    community, too. \r\n\r\nYou could start the another non-profit type foundry, one
    with the font(s) of the highest quality, and one which does performs other activities
    (i.e., book production or linguistic work). But it would not be the first, or
    only non-profit type foundry."
  created: '2009-06-10 17:27:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I have no objections to royalties for designers.</em>\r\n\r\nSo long
    as somebody else pays them :-)\r\n\r\n<em>There is obviously a problem with font
    licensing and distribution for use on the web at the moment...</em>\r\n\r\nIf
    there is, it was a problem created by the massive distribution of \"high quality
    free typefaces for use on the web,\" in the first place, by Microsoft.\r\n\r\nSuch
    a strategy is counterproductive to developing a market that makes it worthwhile
    for type foundries to invest in developing web fonts.\r\n\r\nSo why are you proposing
    more of the same?\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2009-06-10 17:33:30'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@nick shinn\r\n\r\n> \"If there is, it was a problem created by the massive
    distribution of \u201Chigh quality free typefaces for use on the web,\u201D in
    the first place, by Microsoft.\"\r\n\r\n> \"Such a strategy is counterproductive
    to developing a market that makes it worthwhile for type foundries to invest in
    developing web fonts.\"\r\n\r\nEvery once in awhile I read a post that makes me
    gasp in disbelief. This is one of them. Is this actually a complaint?\r\n\r\nFirst,
    it's fair to say that this small group of free \"web safe\" typefaces - and Apple's
    subsequent licensing of them for inclusion in the Mac OS - is one of the cornerstones
    upon which the Internet was built. Everyone has benefited. Society, me, and Nick
    Shinn. In fact, these typefaces are out there working hard for you right now at
    shinntype.com and fontshop.com. And you are complaining about this? This has hurt
    you? (I'm still shaking my head.)\r\n\r\nThis is like a trucker who makes his
    living hauling road-building materials complaining about the Interstate Highway
    system because the government bought their materials from somebody else.\r\n\r\nThose
    free typefaces helped create the avenues of distribution from which you earn an
    income but yet because you, too, produce typefaces you have been, in some way
    hurt by it?\r\n\r\nI'm sorry that the Internet has ruined your business prospects,
    Nick. And, in protest, I suggest you immediately remove your products from any
    site that uses those despicable \"free\" fonts. Just stop cooperating!\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-10 19:49:29'
- author:
    name: eolson
    picture: 110439
  body: Matt, I give you big props for proposing something rather than just complaining.
    We need more of this. The money needed however to produce something of high quality
    (your phase) with the designer surrendering rights and the fonts actually properly
    hinted - is massive. Think in terms of a new house, not a new car if you know
    what I'm sayin.
  created: '2009-06-10 20:01:34'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick (Shinn), there doesn't seem to me any inherent incompatibility between
    the notions of not-for-profit and ongoing revenue, of which royalties represent
    one model. Matt has suggested that the font development would be funded up-front,
    as a paid commission, and then the fonts made freely available, but presumably
    the organisation would continue to raise funds for future projects. So there is
    a model of ongoing revenue into which a type designer might insert himself if
    he were so inclined. This is the same gamble that one takes licensing a font for
    distribution through a for-profit foundry: will the foundry do a good enough job
    marketing the font to actually produce the ongoing revenue stream from royalties,
    or would you have been better off accepting a single up-front payment?\r\n\r\nWhat
    disintiguishes the not-for-profit from the for-profit foundry is not the potential
    revenue streams per se, but who has fingers in those streams. Profit is surplus
    income over expenses, and if paying designers is an expense -- whether as an up-front
    commission payment or an ongoing percentage of income -- then profit is simply
    money that someone other than the designer is getting. If there are people who
    want to do the work of fundraising, planning, administration, etc. to produce
    fonts -- and to do so in a way that enables the maximum amount of money to be
    dedicated to the design and production of the fonts, rather than to paying dividends
    to shareholders -- more power to them. If they are able to generate enough funding,
    on an ongoing basis, to make this a reality, then they should be able to offer
    flexible revenue models to designers.\r\n\r\nAll that said, obviously what will
    determine the success of such a venture -- and the likelihood of attracting the
    kind of design and production quality that Matt describes -- is the robustness
    of the fundraising model. I don't necessarily expect Matt to reveal here what
    kinds of fundraising strategies he envisions, who the potential donors are, etc.,
    but this is the sine qua non of the whole idea.\r\n\r\nAs I've said numerous times:
    I don't care how fonts are distributed or what the license terms are so long as
    there is a viable business model that ensures an income for the designers that
    is commensurate with his skilled labour and creative contribution."
  created: '2009-06-10 20:18:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Is this actually a complaint?</em>\r\n\r\nNo. It's an economic argument--and
    could we do without the sarcasm?\r\n\r\nFirst desktop publishing, and then the
    Web, were predicated on the distribution of free fonts as items which were bundled
    with hardware and software applications.\r\nTherefore there is no mass market
    for fonts, even though hundreds of millions of computer users require them in
    order for their computers to function.\r\n\r\nIf foundries could sell fonts by
    the million to the non-professional market, rather than by the hundred to professionals,
    that would reduce prices, and enable foundries to invest in developing all sorts
    of web fonts with delta (size-specific) hinting.\r\n\r\nThe absence of Georgia
    and Verdana would not have slowed the progress of Web by much (although no Comic
    Sans would have been problematic), but it might have provided more opportunity
    for foundries to develop the variety of high quality web fonts that web designers
    want.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-10 21:25:33'
- author:
    name: Ed_Aranda
    picture: 117416
  body: John Hudson makes a very compelling argument. As long as enough money can
    be brought in to pay the designers what they are worth, there's no reason this
    couldn't work. Start looking for a CFO and some very talented accountants.
  created: '2009-06-10 21:59:37'
- author:
    name: aaronbell
    picture: 117132
  body: "@Nick Shinn\r\n\r\nBut the big question ultimately lies in the fact that,
    if fonts were not bundled with computers, would the average consumer bother to
    purchase them? I would say no, they would not. Most people don't care about fonts
    and probably would be happy to have the same one or two fonts on their computer
    if those were the only fonts they were given. Therefore, I cannot say that there
    would be a \"mass market\" in which foundries could sell \"hundreds of millions\"
    of computer fonts. Frankly, the non-professional market <em>doesn't care.</em>\r\n\r\nIn
    fact, we would end up with the same situation we have today, only with fewer,
    worse options. Instead of having the usual web safe fonts, there would be only
    a couple of \"safe\" fonts since no one would have any sort of consistency to
    their computer's font collection. \r\n\r\nFurthermore, I would disagree with your
    statement <em>\"the absence of Georgia and Verdana would not have slowed the progress
    of Web by much.\"</em> Without decent fonts designed specifically for the screen
    and widely distributed, the web would have been far too insufferable for the majority
    of people to be interested in using. I have a hard enough time reading content
    on the web as it is, but reading block after block of monospace fonts? It is a
    terrible experience (I assume only the most basic computer font was provided).
    As web folk know, experience is what drives the success of a website, so without
    that, the web may not have succeeded at all or would have been delayed more significantly
    (in my opinion).\r\n\r\nFinally, the biggest issue facing us right now is that
    of licensing. It isn't a question of a lack of high quality fonts, but being able
    to use them while providing foundries the degree of security they want & need.
    This issue would not have been resolved by not distributing fonts, but by a radical
    shift in thought at a very early stage \u2014\_something I don't think would have
    happened even without distribution of fonts by Microsoft, Apple, Adobe and others.
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-10 22:07:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Aaron, it's not logical to extrapolate from the fact that certain people
    don't buy fonts because they've always been provided, that they never would buy
    if fonts hadn't been provided. Surely the opposite would be more likely? \r\n\r\nAfter
    all, where did the ringtone market come from?\r\nAccording to your theory, the
    \"average consumer\" shouldn't care about ringtones, and should be quite happy
    with a few basic sounds.\r\n\r\nMarkets don't just exist, they emerge, as much
    from the efforts of manufacturers and marketers as from the desire of consumers.\r\n\r\n<em>...reading
    block after block of monospace fonts?</em>\r\n\r\nNo, the option to the \"quality\"
    of Verdana/Georgia was Arial/Times.\r\n\r\n<em>...even without distribution of
    fonts by Microsoft, Apple, Adobe and others.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's a moot point,
    as those corporations set the standards for font formats."
  created: '2009-06-10 23:37:57'
- author:
    name: aaronbell
    picture: 117132
  body: "<em>it\u2019s not logical to extrapolate from the fact that certain people
    don\u2019t buy fonts because they\u2019ve always been provided, that they never
    would buy if fonts hadn\u2019t been provided. Surely the opposite would be more
    likely?</em>\r\n\r\nIt may just be my opinion that people wouldn't buy fonts,
    but I don't think you can necessarily assume that people <em>would</em> buy fonts
    if they weren't provided. In fact, I think more people care about fonts <em>because</em>
    of the wide availability of fonts. With more sense of choice, more consideration
    is made into picking a font and those who are really into font choice will get
    inspired to investigate further, discovering the marketplace of different options.\r\n\r\n<em>According
    to your theory, the \u201Caverage consumer\u201D shouldn\u2019t care about ringtones,
    and should be quite happy with a few basic sounds.</em>\r\n\r\nYour analogy doesn't
    quite hold up. Ringtones serve a very different purpose and are used in a different
    way. For example, it would be as if I could change every font on my computer and
    on the web to a particular font that I like and want to use more often. That would
    end up being a nightmare for developers and designers of computer software and
    website. It doesn't matter if I have a different chosen ringtone from you because
    that choice of ringtone means nothing; it is personal preference. Fonts and ringtones
    are not similar in any regard.\r\n\r\n<em>No, the option to the \u201Cquality\u201D
    of Verdana/Georgia was Arial/Times.</em>\r\n\r\nFair enough, but I still feel
    that for the majority of users, Arial & Times are probably good enough. A typographer
    or graphic designer might look at Arial & Times and feel turned off, but most
    people don't understand that reaction nor do they care, continuing to use the
    fonts as per their personal preference, financial outlay and motivation. \r\n\r\n<em>That\u2019s
    a moot point, as those corporations set the standards for font formats.</em>\r\n\r\nYour
    argument was about distribution. The fact that those corporations set the font
    format is moot. I was talking specifically about their role in distributing the
    fonts. You don't see the W3C distributing html or css, but they create the spec
    for how it \"should\" work. \r\n\r\n\r\nWhen one goes to send an e-mail, very
    few people actually make an effort to choose a specific font for the text. Most
    are content with the base font, whatever it may be. There are some folk, like
    my mom, who actually does make an effort to pick a different font from the ones
    provided, but if she were to pick a custom font that I did not have on my computer,
    what would be the point? I would just see it in the base font that is set in the
    mail program and the whole point of picking a personal font would be lost. "
  created: '2009-06-11 00:07:00'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@ nick shinn\r\n>\"The absence of Georgia and Verdana would not have slowed
    the progress of Web by much (although no Comic Sans would have been problematic),
    but it might have provided more opportunity for foundries to develop the variety
    of high quality web fonts that web designers want.\"\r\n\r\nYou're kidding me,
    right? If not, we truly are living in different worlds. You mean we were all supposed
    to wait around?\r\nTo quote Barry Goldwater, \"Sarcasm in the face of absurdity
    is no vice.\" (He did say that right? I dunno, my politics are slightly to the
    left of Che Gu&eacute;vara.)\r\n\r\nHere's the bottom line: If this thread was
    the plot of a cable TV episode, it could be summed up as: \"Idealistic college
    design student butts heads with jaded professionals over idea for not-for-profit
    foundry.\"\r\n\r\nHere's lookin' at you, kid. And good luck."
  created: '2009-06-11 01:35:58'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: This sort of feels like arguing about the first person that suggestion putting
    airfares online to the detriment of the travel agent industry.
  created: '2009-06-11 04:36:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Aaron, human nature says: why buy something when you don't have to?\r\nSo
    most people, including most professionals, don't buy (m)any fonts because they
    already have most genres covered, for free.\r\nProviding a class of product for
    free undermines the market for those who want to sell such products.\r\nThis is
    one reason why there is a lot of retail activity in genres that are poorly represented
    in font bundles--e.g. grunge and scripts.\r\n\r\n<em>You\u2019re kidding me, right?</em>\r\n\r\nI'm
    explaining how Big Silicon engineered the system we have, with its lack of diversity
    that Matt is frustrated by, and suggesting that more of the same, i.e. free distribution
    of a few quality fonts, might not be the best solution.\r\n\r\n@John <em>so long
    as there is a viable business model that ensures an income for the designers that
    is commensurate with his skilled labour and creative contribution.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    OK if you're the designer being rewarded. But in the big picture what happens
    with bundling is that a sum is paid in commission in lieu of a larger sum in royalties.
    Now, individually, I may choose to take the commission, but for type culture as
    a whole, the effect of less money in play is restrictive. As Matt says, \"We\u2019d
    only be commissioning typefaces from top type designers.\" I'd like to see more
    money, spread around. Not just because I'm a type designer, but because I think
    creatives deserve points, not just fees, and that would be a better stimulus package
    for typography in general.\r\n\r\n<em>If this thread was the plot of a cable TV
    episode...</em>\r\n\r\n...your snappy prose and wiseguy posturing would be more
    appropriate."
  created: '2009-06-11 06:09:55'
- author:
    name: aaronbell
    picture: 117132
  body: "<em>Aaron, human nature says: why buy something when you don\u2019t have
    to?\r\nSo most people, including most professionals, don\u2019t buy (m)any fonts
    because they already have most genres covered, for free.\r\nProviding a class
    of product for free undermines the market for those who want to sell such products.</em>\r\n\r\nThat
    seems a bit of a reversal from your previous statement. I mean, why do people
    buy ringtones if they have a perfectly good set that covers most genres for free?
    That market hasn't been undermined by providing free options. But we've gone over
    why ringtones are a bad analogy, so I'll leave it there.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nFrankly,
    I would be surprised by designers who don't buy many or any fonts and use free
    ones instead because the free ones, while good, may not be appropriate to a given
    project. If someone is using a free font on a project because it is there rather
    than because it is appropriate to the project, then they aren't doing their job
    \u2014 they are being lazy.\r\n\r\nI mean, if it was the case that all genres
    are covered by the free fonts, why is there even a font industry at all? The answer
    is because those free fonts provided in bundles are a base set and work well enough
    for people who don't really care anyway. For anyone who does care, there are many,
    many options out there in the paid field.\r\n\r\n\r\nNow, I'm not arguing for
    or against Matt's idea in any regard (I've been looking at font bundles as provided
    by computer & software manufactures). The real issue in terms of variety of fonts
    online is not due to the few good fonts provided in font bundles. The real problem
    is licensing. When the browser makers and foundries can agree on a single system
    that makes both of them happy, we will have our solution. Until that point, we're
    all just flailing in the dark trying to find answers, but the licensing issue
    would have been prevalent no matter if it occurred now or back when the internet
    was just getting started. "
  created: '2009-06-11 06:38:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>But we\u2019ve gone over why ringtones are a bad analogy,</em>\r\n\r\nNo
    analogy is perfect, but it seemed to me that ringtones were a good example of
    a digital product that was not massively bundled in the way that fonts are, and
    for which a mass consumer market has consequently developed, in a way that hasn't
    happened for fonts.\r\n\r\n<em>Frankly, I would be surprised by designers who
    don\u2019t buy many or any fonts and use free ones instead because the free ones,
    while good, may not be appropriate to a given project.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm afraid
    I don't have any surveys to back this up, but I think you're a bit out of touch.
    \ \r\n\r\n<em>When the browser makers and foundries can agree on a single system
    that makes both of them happy...</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think the powers that be
    are too concerned with what foundries think. Apparently, we should be thankful
    for whatever business we have."
  created: '2009-06-11 07:34:09'
- author:
    name: aaronbell
    picture: 117132
  body: "I don't have extensive surveys to back up my point of view either, but in
    all the work I've done with creative directors, I've never been told to use Verdana,
    Georgia, Tahoma or any of those free fonts for any situation except when we absolutely
    have to.\r\n\r\nThen there is this comment by CameronWilliams:\r\n<em>\r\nThank
    you both, @aaron & @frode frank, that makes perfect sense. As a matter of fact,
    I disable all but the necessary system fonts on my Mac while working in InDesign,
    Illustrator or QuarkXPress so that I don\u2019t mistakenly use system Helvetica
    or Palatino, for example, while designing for print; my font menus just show the
    fonts I\u2019ve chosen, from the foundries I want to use. Then I activate the
    set \u201Cremoved sys fonts\u201D in Suitcase Fusion when I want to get on line.
    It takes a little bit more time, but I feel it\u2019s worth it, though I\u2019m
    sure most people don\u2019t want or need a font manager.\r\n</em>\r\n\r\nI'm not
    saying designers buy tons of expensive fonts. I'm saying designers should pick
    the best font for the job and that the free ones are rarely \"the best.\" So,
    unless it is one of those rare cases, picking the free font amounts to design
    laziness. \r\n\r\nI understand you're upset with the state of the industry and
    the reduced number of sales, but as I said, the issue is licensing \u2014 not
    free fonts. When that is solved, I expect the situation to change. "
  created: '2009-06-11 15:13:55'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "<em>\"so long as there is a viable business model that ensures an income
    for the designers that is commensurate with his skilled labour and creative contribution.\"</em>
    \ \r\n\r\nI hope that some skilled designers (including JH) could you put some
    numbers on this? :-)\r\n\r\nSay a non-profit foundry had a large undisclosed sum,
    and approached you to quote on working for them full time for 6 months. What are
    the absolute minimum you'd do it for, the price you'd be happy with, and the maximum
    price you'd charge a fat cat client?"
  created: '2009-06-11 15:16:13'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Say a non-profit foundry had a large undisclosed sum\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nAnswering
    that question in a forum like this could be construed as a violation of the antitrust
    laws of the US and the EU. Please don\u2019t ask it again."
  created: '2009-06-11 15:29:07'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: 'Oh, you mean you can''t solicit quotes publicly? Because that would be forming
    a cartel? '
  created: '2009-06-11 15:43:58'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Never mind, the post's changed
  created: '2009-06-11 15:45:39'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Answering that question in a forum like this could be construed as a violation
    of the antitrust laws of the US and the EU. Please don\u2019t ask it again.\"\r\n\r\nThat's
    not true. Discussing professional service rates is not the same as collusion. "
  created: '2009-06-11 15:48:36'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "@paragraph: Sorry, I think I misunderstood James in my original post and
    edited my initial reply;  I thought it might be because it was an imaginary scenario,
    and perhaps because of the 'undisclosed sum' phrase. But, since aluminum suggests
    its not true (which I would assume....) I'll write it again:\r\n\r\nHere is a
    real scenario: I have $1,000,000, cash, and I've decided to stop my playboy ways
    for the summer - instead I want to stay in, read some books, not spend too much
    money, and hire someone to work for me full time for 6 months to produce an original
    type design as an OpenType font, licensed with the Open Font License. \r\n\r\nWhat
    are:\r\n\r\n1. the absolute minimum you\u2019d do it for,\r\n\r\n2. the price
    you\u2019d be happy with,\r\n\r\n3. the maximum price you\u2019d charge if you
    didn't like me? :-)"
  created: '2009-06-11 16:01:06'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I'm not sure of the point of this question. In general someone wanting a
    font made will develop a spec, and then get quotes from various reputable vendors.
    Those quotes will typically be based on an hourly rate, potential for churn, etc.,
    other factors influencing the cost might be the level of exclusivity, profile
    of the project and customer. A vendor may charge less to a non-profit, than a
    big corporation, but I can't see that adding/removing more than 10% or 15%.\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-11 17:11:12'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I think the plan is interesting, although the fee question is important.
    How would the non-profit foundry plan cope with this? I mean, we're not talking
    about a few thousand dollars/euros here...\r\n\r\nIn other words, to quote an
    earlier post:\r\n\r\n> <em>The money needed however to produce something of high
    quality (your phase) with the designer surrendering rights and the fonts actually
    properly hinted - is massive. Think in terms of a new house, not a new car if
    you know what I\u2019m sayin.</em>"
  created: '2009-06-11 17:17:24'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Discussing professional service rates is not the same as collusion.</cite>\r\n\r\nIn
    a literal sense you are correct. But antitrust cases are not always subject to
    literal interpretation of law or fact. That\u2019s why the Graphic Artists Guild
    publishes it\u2019s book of pricing and ethical guidelines. Unfortunately type
    design pricing varies so much that the GAG no longer provides estimates for it."
  created: '2009-06-11 17:51:33'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Dave, there are various ways that you could estimate the minimum of how much
    a designer might charge for a specific amount of time. While typeface design is
    really a separate field than graphic design, graphic designer fees might be an
    interesting starting point.\r\n\r\nSeveral countries have graphic design organizations.
    Some of these organizations suggest a minimum hourly rate that designers should
    work under. Of course, depending on the client, the project, and the designer's
    level of experience plus the number of people he employs might make this price
    go up. German graphic designers have these sorts of guidelines. Perhaps there
    is a UK organization, too. Canada has a national design organization, but I don't
    know if has pricing guidelines. In the US, there is the AIGA. As far as I know,
    they don't have pricing guidelines, but they do periodic annual salary surveys.
    Perhaps there is a freelance yearly salary average. To guess at a US-based designer's
    minimum 6-month fee, you could divide that average in half.\r\n\r\nI can't say
    whether these fees would be accurate, but they would certainly be a start if you
    were looking to put a budget together. I suspect that every designer would give
    you a different quote if you sent out an RFP. But hey, it helps to be prepared.\r\n\r\nNote
    that most western nations probably have different designer fee averages. And even
    within large countries, there can be local variation. Designers calculating their
    minimum fee have to figure in the cost of living where they live, the rent and
    utilities for their office space, hardware costs, software costs, taxes, as possibly
    the salaries of any other designers that they employ. Then there are licensing
    fees, usage rights, etc. which may be calculated into fees as well. A designer
    who often licenses his work to a client exclusively for a number of years might
    charge you a higher rate if you want to remove possible future streams of revenue
    for his or her work."
  created: '2009-06-11 18:08:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I understand you\u2019re upset with the state of the industry and the
    reduced number of sales, </em>\r\n\r\nThen you misunderstand me!\r\nI don't believe
    this is the best of all possible worlds, but it's pretty damn good.\r\n\r\nFees:\r\nType
    design is not like graphic design, most of which is client-specific and ephemeral.\r\nA
    typeface is a piece of intellectual property, with the potential to realize large
    sums of money over a long period of time.\r\nThe worst thing a type designer could
    do would be to surrender the rights to a typeface, being paid what appears to
    be a very respectable hourly rate, and subsequently discover that the face is
    his/her best design and he/she doesn't own any piece of it, and it becomes a classic
    that would have earned far more incrementally, over decades.\r\nBut you know,
    a nice commission up front can be better than the crap-shoot of investing in a
    retail face that pays back incrementally, and which may never do very well anyway.
    I have a few solid performers, and some which work out to a dollar an hour, but
    at the time I thought they were brilliant."
  created: '2009-06-11 18:58:14'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Dan makes some very good points, but more importantly I\u2019ll reiterate
    Dave Berlow\u2019s point from the last big free/open-source type thread: you need
    a specification for the font or fonts you want to produce. Once you have that
    you can start getting reliable pricing and time estimates from type designers.
    Having a specification and estimates will go a long way toward getting funding
    and other forms of assistance. "
  created: '2009-06-11 19:00:48'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "@sii: Yes, an hourly rate for type design \"spot work\" would be the same
    kind of information I'm suggesting is relevant to this thread. Let me try and
    rephrase:\r\n\r\nSay, for example, that Apple's version of Bitstream Vera due
    out in the next Mac OS X release doesn't have its stylistic changes applied to
    the massive glyph coverage of DejaVu, and I wanted to hire someone to work for
    6 months on merging in the glyphs in DejaVu that are missing from the Apple font
    and applying the stylistic changes to them. Maybe it takes 3 months, if so then
    great, but maybe it takes 12 months, maybe there's a delay in funding the second
    stretch of work, but that's okay. \r\n\r\nNow say that I want to hire someone
    for 6 months to make an original type design for the basic ASCII 7-bit character
    set. Again, maybe it takes 3 months, great, if it takes 12 months, maybe there's
    a delay in funding the second stretch of work, but that's okay too. \r\n\r\nIs
    it reasonable to expect to pay the same rate for both jobs? Why, or, why not?
    :-)\r\n\r\n@james puckett: Can you explain why you asked me to not discuss this?
    I'm still not clear on that :-)\r\n\r\n@Dan: That's a great idea. I don't know
    of such a UK thing, but I'm curious if you know the German rates in euros? I'm
    also somewhat skeptical of how much these reflect the actual market; since I know
    some low-key provincial graphic designers who work for \u20AC20/hour and some
    designers in London who work the corporate consultancy angle at \u20AC400/hour.
    Both do branding and marketing, but clients selling nicknacks and sportscars are
    quite different clients :-)\r\n\r\nTo clarify, I am talking about work with full
    copyright/design right/design patent/etc assignment to me. I understand that this
    is the norm for type design commissions, although many type designers try to persuade
    their commissioners to not take assignment for a cheaper price. Again, if anyone
    would like to state here or post the link to their standard rates with and without
    assignment, I'd love to see these numbers.\r\n\r\nI literally have no idea if
    6 months of the time of a type designer with say a dozen published typefaces that
    are recognised as useful is \u20AC10,000 or \u20AC100,000. It seems clear that
    some guys who have an established (ie, long) career as type designers have done
    commissions for huge corporations and governments and earned a shitload of cash,
    akin to a trial lawyer or a specialist doctor. But that's the top end of the market;
    I'm curious what the middle and lower bounds are too."
  created: '2009-06-11 19:24:27'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "@James: <em>\"you need a specification for the font or fonts you want to
    produce.\"</em> Well, yes, as that's what I'm asking about - as Sii suggests,
    does anyone think of the pricing in terms of a generic hourly rate for type design
    activity (which as Nick and Dan point out, will not be the same rate as for typography
    activity, or general graphic design activity, even though its the same designer)
    which is then adjusted up or down depending on the specification?\r\n\r\n@Nick:
    That's a really informative post, thanks! As you say, it is entirely up to any
    freelance designer if they are willing to get paid for doing type design at an
    \"all in\" hourly rate, and balance the risk that the work may become a classic
    that would have earned far more incrementally against the risk that as a retail
    face it may never be popular and they'll earn \u20AC1/hour over 10 years, instead
    of \u20AC30/hour for 6 months (I am just throwing \u20AC30/hour out there, I am
    not suggesting that is good or bad, since I have no idea what the price ranges
    can be.) So then the question is, which type designers are willing to get paid
    for doing type design at an \"all in\" hourly rate? And how much is that rate?
    :-)"
  created: '2009-06-11 19:35:47'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Can you explain why you asked me to not discuss this? I\u2019m still
    not clear on that :-)</cite>\r\n\r\nBecause a very capable antitrust lawyer has
    advised me that for a group of designers to discuss their fees on a web forum
    might be illegal or provide clients with ammunition for a lawsuit. I could drone
    on about it, but if you really want to know the gory details there are endless
    criticisms of the fuzzy/stupid nature of antitrust enforcement and prosecution
    in business magazines and law journals.\r\n\r\n@abattis: I don\u2019t know how
    many type designers out there are charging by the hour; but I do know a few who
    charge a fee negotiated up front based on the extent of the work. And even if
    you have an hourly rate, you still don\u2019t know how many hours it will take
    any particular designer to design a typeface until you can show him/her a specification.
    As I noted above, the fees vary so much that the Graphic Artist Guild doesn\u2019t
    even provide estimates anymore."
  created: '2009-06-11 21:12:50'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'This thread includes a price range on hinting... http://typophile.com/node/58554
    ... $75 to $250 an hour. Read into that what you will.  '
  created: '2009-06-11 23:18:17'
- author:
    name: cfynn
    picture: 112122
  body: "There is apparently already a [[http://www.tug.org/fonts/librefontfund.html|Free
    / Libre Font Fund]] designed to fund open source font projects, and there are
    of course sites like [[http://www.openfontlibrary.org/|The Open Font Library]]
    and [[http://www.theleagueofmoveabletype.com/|The League of Moveable Type]] set
    up to  distribute Free & OpenSource fonts. \r\n\r\nOther free font projects like
    the [[http://www.tiresias.org/fonts/fonts_download.htm|Tiresias]]\u2122 and [[http://www.redhat.com/promo/fonts/|Liberation]]\u2122
    fonts have been funded ~ are you proposing something for more projects like those?\r\n\r\nThere
    are a quite a number of good free and open source fonts for non-latin scripts
    available which could use some professional hinting so they work better on the
    web. It would certainly be a great service for users of those scripts if someone
    could fund such work.  \r\n  \r\n- C\r\n\r\n     "
  created: '2009-06-12 06:45:58'
- author:
    name: mattmc
    picture: 114405
  body: "I was certainly aware of The League of Moveable Type and some other sites
    that are distributing open source and free fonts. The difference with my proposed
    non-profit foundry is that the site is not for open-source fonts or open to submissions.
    It'd be all about raising money and commissioning type. Once we have fonts to
    distribute, they would not be open sourced, just free so that they can be embedded
    in web pages without having to worry about licensing issues.\r\n\r\nThis proposed
    foundry is also by no means an attack on for profit foundries or the idea that
    type designers should we receive royalties. I'm completely open to the possibility
    that this idea may just not be worth pursuing and may not be a good idea for type
    designers, that's why I wanted to post it here to get feedback from those who
    are more experienced in the world of type than myself. It's just an attempt to
    come up with an idea that could help to solve the problem of a lack of great fonts
    being used on the web. Obviously this problem isn't due to the lack of great fonts
    being produced, just how they are being distributed. My thought was that by taking
    the royalties and licensing payments out of the equation, by paying type designers
    up front instead, would allow for the fonts produced to be distributed quickly
    and easily, without getting tangled in any legal or moral issues.\r\n\r\nRealistically
    if this foundry were to take shape, our goal would be to contribute another Georgia
    or Verdana to the world. It wouldn't solve the web font problem, and I don't think
    we'd be able commission huge numbers of typefaces due to the very high cost. But
    I am certainly of the opinion that Matthew Carter's work for Microsoft in the
    early 90s did great things for the web. I think an attempt to contribute more
    great fonts like this would be a step in the right direction and at least begin
    to increase the typographic diversity of the web while we all try to figure out
    the right way to create a market for fonts on the web and distribute them in a
    way that makes designers, foundries, and users happy.\r\n\r\n---------------------------------------\r\n[[http://rbtl.us|Read
    Between the Leading podcast]]"
  created: '2009-06-12 16:45:25'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Matt, I think part of your problem is that you\u2019re talking to the wrong
    people. One way or another you\u2019ll be able to get type designers involved
    if you can raise the funds. I think what you really need to do is address web
    designers, eBook publishers, and other potential users to see what they need and
    would be willing to fund. Verdana and Georgia are so great because they\u2019re
    excellent solutions to a pretty big problem. I think if you want to succeed, you
    need to really nail down a new problem that needs fixing. Typographic diversity
    is probably the wrong problem for you, but something far more specific might not
    be. "
  created: '2009-06-12 17:01:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...our goal would be to contribute another Georgia or Verdana to the
    world.</em>\r\n\r\nThen you would have to find some way of making your font magically
    appear in Windows font menus.\r\nJust because a font is free, and \"quality\"
    (whatever that means) is no assurance that it will be of much use to anyone, and
    there are numerous examples of that.\r\nIf you don't get a hook-up with an OEM
    of any size, your work will be cut out promoting your foundry and font.\r\nYou
    could also budget for a leading brand consultant to create the foundry identity,
    and ad agency to promote the faces.\r\nBecause you will be running a business
    competing with commercial marketers, and won't be able to utilize commercial font
    distribution channels. In that case, being free might even work against getting
    the font distributed.\r\nDon't let me discourage you, I'm just pointing out that
    there's a lot more work involved in your project than you anticipate.\r\nMany
    people get started by diving into type culture/business pro bono, but it's hard
    to keep up that pace of philanthropy for longer than 18 months, and fundraising
    is in itself a business sector with its own competitive culture.\r\n\r\n<em>what
    you really need to do is address web designers, eBook publishers, and other potential
    users to see what they need and would be willing to fund. </em>\r\n\r\nRight off
    the bat, there's a burden commercial foundries don't have. We just throw it on
    the market and see if it sells!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-12 17:51:12'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "@mattmc: <em>\"We\u2019d like to release typefaces to be used freely on the
    web or in print.\" ... \"the site is not for open-source fonts\"</em> So when
    you say \"to be used freely,\" you intend to say, \"to be redistributed freely
    but not modified.\" I'd like to suggest that the free and open source community
    has established \"to be used freely\" as meaning \"to be redistributed and modified\"
    - which is why people are assuming you mean raising funds to pay type designers
    to create fonts published under the the SIL Open Font License, like the GFS.\r\n\r\nThanks
    for clarifying that you weren't intending to publish libre fonts :-)"
  created: '2009-06-12 18:45:12'
date: '2009-06-10 02:56:04'
node_type: forum
title: A Non-profit Type Foundry

---
