---
author:
  name: billdavis
  picture: 109965
body: I just posted an article with our web fonts solution over at our <strong>[[http://blog.fontembedding.com/post/2009/06/10/New-Web-Fonts-Proposal.aspx|FontEmbedding.com]]
  </strong>site. We are most interested in knowing how many type designers/foundries
  would be supportive of a web-specific font format as a way to differentiate from
  desktop fonts.
comments:
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: I think the bigger question is how many browser developers would be supportive
    of the proposal?
  created: '2009-06-11 06:20:44'
- author:
    name: aaronbell
    picture: 117132
  body: "I always rather liked .wtf as the format name (web typeface) as referenced
    in this article: <a href=\"http://talleming.com/2009/04/21/web-fonts/\" title=\"http://talleming.com/2009/04/21/web-fonts/\">http://talleming.com/2009/04/21/web-fonts/</a>\r\n\r\nThere's
    been a number of font proposals for a third format, but none of them have really
    caught on and I think the browser manufactures have essentially ignored them \u2014
    Microsoft has EOT already and is happy with it, Firefox & Safari are pushing @font-face
    without any security. So Darrel's comment is particularly pointed. Foundries are
    important, but without the browser developer's help, it isn't going anywhere.
    Even Linotype/Monotype/ITC's updated EULA to allow EOT embedding doesn't seem
    to have made Firefox or Safari reconsider \u2014 at least publicly."
  created: '2009-06-11 06:45:54'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: Bill, after reading the proposal, my concern is about "obfuscating" each font
    by changing the table directory entry. I know very little about type technology,
    but could someone using FontLab or another type design program just revert the
    table directory entry to its original setting? If this is possible, then anyone
    with a type design program (or a demo, or a stolen copy) could download and reformat
    Web fonts to use on their computers.
  created: '2009-06-11 07:21:07'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>This new format addresses the needs of web designers, ... </cite>\r\n\r\nWeb
    designer just want webfonts and by the end of this year they will be able to deliver
    them to the majority of users. The web designers don't want URL-binding, obfuscating,
    same-origin rescriction et cetera. They just don't care about that. \r\n\r\nThis
    new format would even mean more trouble for the web designers, because since current
    browser versions don't support it, web designers would have to link EOT, TT or
    OTF and(!) the new OTW fonts. Phew!\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>... the desires of the free
    font community</cite>\r\n\r\nIn which way?\r\n\r\n<cite> the concerns of commercial
    font vendors </cite>\r\n\r\nI'm not sure about that. It will probably take some
    years to be included in all the browsers, but since you would publicly announce
    how the fonts are obfuscated, removing this \"protection\" will be a piece of
    cake. \r\n\r\n<cite>There are five aspects to the proposed web-specific font format:\r\n-Same-origin
    restrictions</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat's the connection between a same-origin restriction
    and the OTW proposal. This can be included for EOT and TT/OT as well (as done
    in Firefox). No need for a new format here. And it can also be enforced on the
    server side (e.g. with .htaccess files)\r\n\r\n<cite>-Subsetting</cite>\r\n\r\nEOT/TT/OTF
    can be subsetted. What's different with OTW?\r\n\r\n<cite>I always rather liked
    .wtf </cite>\r\nWhich most people would probably understand as \xBBWhat the f***\xAB.\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-11 12:50:12'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: '"This new format addresses ... the desires of the free font community"? How
    so?'
  created: '2009-06-11 14:36:52'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "This sounds like EOT without encryption or Microsoft. It creates a format
    that might be more acceptable to the open-source geeks at the W3C who reject EOT
    on principle, at least until the paranoids at Slashdot decide Ascender is really
    Microsoft. But I agree with Ralf, nobody needs another font format. If a foundry
    really wants what is offered here it would make more sense to just get behind
    Berlow\u2019s permission scheme should it become a reality (unless one is really
    hung up on subsets)."
  created: '2009-06-11 14:51:26'
- author:
    name: aaronbell
    picture: 117132
  body: "<em>Which most people would probably understand as \xBBWhat the f***\xAB.</em>\r\n\r\nExactly.
    I meant it jokingly since .wtf would be interpreted wrongly. "
  created: '2009-06-11 14:52:55'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "I'll support this. There's definitely a need for a new format. EOT was almost
    the one but it didn't catch on for reasons already pointed out in Bill's article.\r\n\r\nI
    don't need a format that prevents the determined and skilled from getting at parts
    of my fonts. I just want to make sure they can't easily grab perfect copies of
    my fonts in their entirety directly from a URL. I've always liked EOT and found
    it to be secure enough. I've seen demonstrations of fonts ripped from EOT and
    they're okay but there's always something missing: complete kerning, copyright
    info, family naming, several glyphs. It's not the real font. It's like taping
    a song off the radio. Subsetting is very important to me.\r\n\r\nI played around
    with EOT about a decade ago and I liked it but the early tools were buggy and
    there was no Netscape support. I was really disappointed when Safari did the @font-face
    thing. I want to sell fonts for web use but that was a big step backwards. Every
    few days I get an email from someone asking me if they can use my fonts for @font-face.
    I hate saying no, but . . . I don't think people realize that they're really asking,
    \"can I post your fonts on the web with no EULA so anyone with the URL can download
    a perfect copy?\"\r\n\r\nI really hope the OTW format takes off. From the description
    it has exactly what I've been looking for in a new web format."
  created: '2009-06-11 14:59:31'
- author:
    name: schoschie
  body: "What about using subsetting? I mean: just like with PDF, embedding a subset
    font that contains only the glyphs that are actually used. That way, if you try
    to rip off the font, you hardly ever get a complete font.\r\nThe downside would
    be to know in advance what chars you're going to use, which is no problem for
    a static page, but might be complicated if your content is pulled from a database."
  created: '2009-06-11 15:55:59'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"If this is possible, then anyone with a type design program (or a demo,
    or a stolen copy) could download and reformat Web fonts to use on their computers.\"\r\n\r\n\"I
    just want to make sure they can\u2019t easily grab perfect copies of my fonts
    in their entirety directly from a URL.\"\r\n\r\nAnyone with an internet connection
    can Google the font and download it from any number of .ru web sites.\r\n\r\nNo
    matter how easy browsers may make it to grab an @font-face font file, it's still
    easier to just google/newsgroup/fileshare for the original full font file. \r\n\r\nI
    think that's the one single hurdle that we need to get over. Fonts are shared
    already. @font-face may increase sharing. But the goal is to increase sales equally
    as well. \r\n\r\nThe problem with 'secure enough' 'protection' is that it's typically
    a matter of a short amount of time before a simple little app is released that
    makes it trivial to circumvent with a mouse click, so you are back to square one. "
  created: '2009-06-11 15:58:40'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "There's an article on ReadableWeb titled <a href=\"http://readableweb.com/apple-and-microsoft-in-talks-on-web-font-protections/\"><b>Apple
    and Microsoft In Talks On Web Font Protections</b></a> that has some informative
    information about the whole web fonts issue.\r\nFrankly, with all due respect
    to Bill Davis, I believe that the proposal may not really be a proposal at all,
    but more like a preview of a fait accompli between Apple and Microsoft.\r\n<a
    href=\"http://readableweb.com/apple-and-microsoft-in-talks-on-web-font-protections/\">Check
    it out<a>."
  created: '2009-06-11 19:16:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks for the background Richard.\r\nThis is a complex issue to keep track
    of, and your article really helps.\r\nI particularly found the minutes of the
    W3 meeting useful.\r\n\r\nIt's unfortunate that there is no official body representing
    the interests of independent foundries, because I am uneasy that all the \"foundries\"
    at such meetings represent my interests, as new fonts are not their primary revenue
    source, although in this instance they probably do.\r\n\r\nBill, a web-specific
    font format sounds like a no-brainer.\r\nI'll support that!\r\nIt would certainly
    make my business less complicated and easier to manage, which is important when
    you have a small business with people doing a lot of multi-tasking. It would also
    make it easier to explain licensing and product availability  and feature support
    to clients and customers. "
  created: '2009-06-11 20:51:01'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>What about using subsetting?</cite>\r\n\r\nThat might work for a foundry
    like Vllg or Process that have massive character sets of use to print designers
    typesetting complex stuff. But many web sites are going to need at least the basic
    math symbols and the complete alphabet with extended language support things like
    the names of content authors or users around the world, and for many typefaces
    that\u2019s everything."
  created: '2009-06-11 20:55:26'
- author:
    name: Jason Santa Maria
    picture: 110326
  body: "The biggest hurdles to introducing this will be getting the foundries and
    designers to support another new format, and perhaps biggest of all, the browsers
    too, which could take a while until the format is widely accepted and used. My
    gut is that time will be the biggest factor, and it isn't on the side of introducing
    something new. The next year will be very interesting for webfonts. While the
    new format might be superior and ideal, I think whatever happens with existing
    technologies will happen much faster, and if those take hold in a large way, I
    don't know that something new will have a place.\r\n\r\nSpeaking as a web designer,
    I don't care where my fonts come from, either hosted on my site or by a third
    party. All I want is for the designers and foundries to get paid well for their
    work and for it to be a sustainable setup. Then we can tackle the problem of most
    typefaces being bastardized by browser rendering engines at all but display sizes
    :)"
  created: '2009-06-11 21:08:58'
- author:
    name: billdavis
    picture: 109965
  body: "And with no disrespect to Richard Fink, our proposal has nothing to do with
    the Microsoft web font collection. Sorry to burst your conspiracy theory bubble\u2026
    :)\r\n\r\nAscender distributes these fonts under license and would be glad to
    license them to Apple if they wanted them \u2013 we have licensed them to a variety
    of software & hardware developers. \r\n \r\nThe Ascender proposal is focused on
    the vast collection of commercial fonts in the market that web designers cannot
    use with @font-face to design web sites. I am glad Richard noted Chris Wilson\u2019s
    comments \u201CA solution that only works for freeware fonts is not a solution.
    Is that too much to ask?\u201D That clearly summarizes what we hope to achieve:
    a cross platform, cross browser solution that includes both freeware and commercial
    fonts. \r\n\r\nAs Typophile readers may know, Ascender is a supporter of EOT,
    but this proposal did not achieve the support of the W3C. So here we are today
    with a plethora of techniques to \u2018embed\u2019 fonts into web pages, none
    of which have achieved the broad support of the web design or font design communities.\r\n
    \r\nAgain, I will ask the question (that so far only Ray Larabie has answered):
    \r\n\r\nWho in the commercial type design/font foundry community supports the
    idea of a .OTW web font format?\r\n \r\n"
  created: '2009-06-11 21:13:48'
- author:
    name: Damien Pollet
  body: "Wait, if I understood correctly, the new format is to obfuscate a couple
    tables in an otherwise OTF font.\r\nThen, the simplest way to implement that would
    be to have the system libraries de-obfuscate them, so all apps, browser or not,
    would support the new format."
  created: '2009-06-11 23:26:06'
- author:
    name: aaronbell
    picture: 117132
  body: "<em>Wait, if I understood correctly, the new format is to obfuscate a couple
    tables in an otherwise OTF font.\r\nThen, the simplest way to implement that would
    be to have the system libraries de-obfuscate them, so all apps, browser or not,
    would support the new format.</em> \r\n\r\nThe point is more that a font that
    is used online cannot be stolen and used for other purposes. If the system library
    was responsible for de-obfuscating them, it would essentially be like using raw
    TTF or OTF files and it defeats the purpose of the new format all together."
  created: '2009-06-11 23:29:56'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"and it defeats the purpose of the new format all together.\"\r\n\r\nTrue.
    But it'd also likely be true that in short time there'd be a free app that does
    the exact same thing. "
  created: '2009-06-11 23:47:02'
- author:
    name: Peter Farago
  body: Indeed, and a fact that many seem to be ignoring. Who are these font pirates
    that an encrypted format will defeat? Are the various foundries and independent
    vendors unaware of the rampant bootlegging of fonts that already takes place on
    BitTorrent and elsewhere?
  created: '2009-06-12 00:27:32'
- author:
    name: aaronbell
    picture: 117132
  body: "Well, it is essentially defense against the laziest person. Anyone motivated
    will get at anything without issue, but a lot of people won't bother to go looking
    for a decryption program or download the files via a torrent, they'll just shrug
    and drop the encrypted file in the trash. \r\n\r\nIt is like those sites that
    prevent you from directly taking images. If you're motivated enough to take a
    screenshot and cut it up yourself, you've got your image, but it will stop folk
    who try to just save image as or drag it from the browser.\r\n\r\nIn the internet
    age, DRM only exists as a challenge for someone to break. Someone will figure
    out a way to reverse-engineer any file format created and create a perfect copy
    of the original file, but a modicum of security makes foundries feel better that
    their fonts cannot be outright stolen and will prevent the lowest level users
    from just taking."
  created: '2009-06-12 00:39:01'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "FWIW, here is some reassuring advice to insecure pirates. And have a look
    at the hundreds of satisfied customers I never knew I had.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/torr_4660.png]"
  created: '2009-06-12 01:04:14'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@billdavis\r\n\r\nI think the proposal is going to take a few days to sink
    in. I know it will with me. I've read it several times but I still need to sleep
    on it.\r\n(Please clarify: are you are asking for an up-and-down, take-it-or-leave-it
    vote? Or will serious and constructive questions and suggestions be entertained?)\r\n\r\nOne
    thing that everyone who will be affected by this proposal needs to consider -
    and it's made pretty clear by the scenario in my post on <a href=\"http://readableweb.com/apple-and-microsoft-in-talks-on-web-font-protections/\">Readable
    Web</a> - is whether or not they want to have <b>a little bit of influence</b>
    on a solution that's likely to be imposed on them by \"the big guys\" no matter
    what, or have <b>no influence at all</b> by calling for changes that are unrealistic
    and haven't the chance of a snowball in hell of being adopted.\r\n\r\nBill, you
    didn't address the issue directly, but I do hope this is a sincere call for constructive
    input and not just an attempt to smooth things out over a decision that's already
    signed, sealed, and delivered.\r\n\r\n>\"And with no disrespect to Richard Fink,
    our proposal has nothing to do with the Microsoft web font collection. Sorry to
    burst your conspiracy theory bubble\u2026 :)\"\r\n\r\nYou mean Si Daniels wasn't
    the second shooter on the grassy knoll? Aw, that's just because he wasn't born
    yet, probably.\r\nI will note your denial. And personally, I believe you. But
    I can dream. The browsing public <b>would</b> be a lot better off if Apple <b>did</b>
    license the ClearType fonts for the Mac OS."
  created: '2009-06-12 01:16:22'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Well, it is essentially defense against the laziest person\"\r\n\r\nWhich
    is pointless, as those aren't the type of 'pirates' that are going to be taking
    any bite out of revenues.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-12 01:18:41'
- author:
    name: Peter Farago
  body: '@Paragraph: FWIW, the image you posted is an advertisement. Font piracy on
    BitTorrent is bad, but not that bad.'
  created: '2009-06-12 01:34:16'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Peter, think again please. The screen dumps are from a website offering my
    fonts for download, today. I just obscured my font names and the website address.
    Let's not make it too easy, please.
  created: '2009-06-12 01:46:29'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "\"Anyone with an internet connection can Google the font and download it
    from any number of .ru web sites.\"\r\n\r\nDon't compare @font-face open linking
    with those Russian pirate sites. That's what Russian pirate sites are all about
    . . . people go there to get pirated data. It's right there in the name. What
    I don't want is everyone's site to feature easy-to-grab, full version, directly
    downloadable fonts. Just pass the URL to your friends and they can get free fonts,
    straight off of a legal site. Do you need a tool? No, just this URL and you've
    got a free font. Let's leave the easy to pirate fonts to torrents, alt-binaries
    and Russian pirate sites. When you go to these places, you know very well what
    you're getting into. That's why I don't really care about those places.\r\n\r\nI
    don't know about Russian sites and newsgroup binaries but I've seen the kind of
    trash available through torrents: old versions of some of my fonts, most of which
    were released on various magazine cover disks. Most of my fonts aren't available
    because those collections tend to be out of date. The Top 40 MyFonts collection
    torrent might seem like such a great deal but what's inside is not what's advertised.
    Old versions. Fonts converted from other formats. Those torrent font collections
    are mostly trash. It's not like you get to put exactly the fonts you want into
    a shopping cart and you'll get exactly what you want.\r\n\r\nI'm the guy making
    the fonts so I'm the one who has to be okay with this. If it's the Safari font-face
    plan then you can't use any of my fonts on your site. I need obfuscation and subsetting
    or no go."
  created: '2009-06-12 02:37:02'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">The browsing public would be a lot better off if Apple did license the ClearType
    fonts for the Mac OS.\r\n\r\nTotally agree! Peter Lofting and co. know my number,
    as well as Bill's. We're waiting for their call. :-)\r\n\r\nAlthough we've not
    positioned them as web-fonts. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si "
  created: '2009-06-12 02:37:11'
- author:
    name: outrasfontes
    picture: 112120
  body: "I want to support this proposal too, Bill. But I think it will really work
    only in the case of browser developers (Microsoft, Apple, Google, Mozila) are
    wanting to follow the same standard, giving support to this new webfont format.\r\n\r\nMy
    question is: Is this new webfont format going to be secure enough to prevent a
    conversion of OTW to OTF/TTF back again?\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-12 02:40:06'
- author:
    name: cfynn
    picture: 112122
  body: "Whatever the format (EOT or OTW), more embedding bits in the original TTF/
    OTF fonts would be nice so that when these web fonts are created - or fonts are
    embedded in files, <em>whether or not the user actually read the license</em>,
    they could get a clear indication of exactly <em>what</em> forms of embedding
    /linking are allowed, and just <em>where</em> this embedding / linking is permitted.
    The current set of embedding bits are too coarse and generic, being used to cover
    too many different scenarios.\r\n\r\nFor a start, separate sets of flags to indicate
    whether the font can be embedded e.g. in PDF files, in editable (word processor)
    documents, on web sites, in e-books, (...) - and at what level for each - would
    be useful.   \r\n\r\nOf course any browser enabled to download embedded/linked
    fonts needs to have some easy means of displaying the font the license & copyright
    fields  - and any embedded links to license, designer and vendor in the original
    TTF / OTF font files -to the client downloading the fonts.\r\n\r\n- C   \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2009-06-12 05:10:54'
- author:
    name: cfynn
    picture: 112122
  body: "==\r\n\r\n<em>\"There are five aspects to the proposed web-specific font
    format:\r\n\r\n* Subsetting: This is an important feature for Pan-European and
    non-Latin fonts which often have large character sets.\"</em>\r\n\r\nHow does
    is this subsetting going to work for complex non-Latin scripts where several contextual
    glyph substitution lookups may need to be gone through to get from characters
    in the web pages to final glyphs displayed? Is the utility for creating OTW fonts
    going to go through & re-write the OpenType lookup tables when subsetting a font?\r\n\r\n==\r\n\r\nThe
    Ascender OTW proposal doesn't seem to address compression, which EOT has - would
    it be worthwhile using gzip or some other patent free compression? \r\n\r\n -
    C\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-12 05:30:08'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "\"Is the utility for creating OTW fonts going to go through & re-write the
    OpenType lookup tables when subsetting a font?\"\r\n\r\nI was wondering about
    that too. Does EOT already do that?"
  created: '2009-06-12 06:08:41'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "Typodermic: <cite>What I don\u2019t want is everyone\u2019s site to feature
    easy-to-grab, full version, directly downloadable fonts. </cite>\r\n\r\nAnd that's
    where those webfont services as Webkit come into play. They will deal with URL-obfuscating,
    hot-linking prevention and so on. So your fonts will be as \"secure\" as webfonts
    can be. \r\nAnd if you don't like to pass your fonts on to those services, you
    can also setup your own, like foundries as Typotheque are doing it. \r\n\r\n\r\noutrasfontes:<cite>Is
    this new webfont format going to be secure enough to prevent a conversion of OTW
    to OTF/TTF back again?</cite>\r\n\r\nNo. "
  created: '2009-06-12 07:53:31'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: Well, maybe that might work if it's easy to manage. It would have to be picked
    up by an existing marketplace or become a big enough marketplace in its own right.
    Right now, I prefer putting the font in the customer's hands because there's a
    system in place for doing that and it's really good at pulling in large numbers
    of customers. If fonts.com and myfonts.com made that service available, I don't
    see any reason I wouldn't jump on board.
  created: '2009-06-12 08:45:19'
- author:
    name: gferreira
    picture: 110517
  body: "Ralf: <cite>And that\u2019s where those webfont services as Webkit come into
    play.</cite> \r\n\r\nI think you mean <a href=\"http://typekit.com/\">TypeKit</a>,
    not <a href=\"http://webkit.com/\">WebKit</a>."
  created: '2009-06-12 13:57:06'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: 'Peter: I misunderstood the situation, please ignore my remarks :)'
  created: '2009-06-12 14:22:27'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">There\u2019s an article on ReadableWeb titled Apple and Microsoft In Talks
    On Web Font Protections that has some informative information about the whole
    web fonts issue.\r\n\r\nHow does Apple lic. or MS CT fonts help web designers?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-06-13 14:47:18'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@dberlow\r\n\r\nRight now, when you specify a font-family using CSS in a
    web page, you play a game of probabilities. The question being, how probable is
    it that a particular font-family exists on the user's machine?\r\nIn fact, on
    another thread here on Typophile named CSS Font Stacks Article, Frode Hellend
    (frode frank), has put together an excellent table that deals with these probabilities.\r\nToday,
    web designers can comfortably rely on a handful of \"Web Safe\" fonts that approach
    100% penetration on both Windows and Mac. They can specify these font-families
    with confidence that what they design will be pretty much what the user sees.
    These fonts also provide kind of a safety net of \"fallback\" choices in lengthier
    \"font stacks\". (There is much info on the web about this.)\r\nApple licenses
    the \"web safe\" fonts from Microsoft because having a baseline like this from
    which to work seems to work out as a good thing for all concerned. Apple's customers
    certainly benefit.\r\nLicensing the ClearType fonts is just an extension of the
    idea. The CT fonts are excellent. Top quality. They are present in the majority
    of Windows machines and will inevitably approach 100% propagation among Winows
    installations as older Windows XP installations without Office 2007, are abandoned.
    (It's a waiting game of attrition. Like waiting for certain browser versions to
    disappear. Which is, among web designers, the universal professional pastime.)\r\nWith
    Apple on board, it wouldn't be long before the ClearType fonts could be counted
    on by web designers with the same degree of confidence as fonts like Georgia or
    Tahoma. Result: A more <a href=\"http://www.readableweb.com\">readable web</a>.\r\nI'm
    not alone in the opinion. The <a href=\"http://readableweb.com/apple-and-microsoft-in-talks-on-web-font-protections/\">article</a>
    also cites Joe Clark's post on the subject from four years ago. Joe had it right
    on the money from the start. IMHO.\r\nIs it that costly for Apple to give us this,
    I wonder?\r\nOr is support for @font-face in Safari an attempted end-run around
    it? (Stay tuned for part 2 of this saga at readableweb.com)\r\nAhh, the tangled
    web we weave!\r\n\r\ncheers back,\r\n\r\nrich\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-13 16:06:48'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Richard, you need to translate the question from Berlowese to English...\r\n\r\n\"How
    does Apple lic. or MS CT fonts help web designers?\" \r\n\r\n\"How does Apple
    lic. or MS CT fonts help me <STRONG>sell my fonts to</STRONG> web designers?\r\n\r\nThat's
    what Bill's proposal is all about... as I pull the discussion back on-topic.\r\n\r\nPS
    - a separate thread on the C* fonts might help get Apple's attention. "
  created: '2009-06-13 16:28:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>A more readable web.</em>\r\n\r\nA handful of conservative designs in
    a narrow range of styles?\r\nIf I were a web designer, what I'd want right now
    would be slab serif faces, geometric sans faces, ultra thin faces, large x-height
    faces, &c.\r\nAnd next year who knows what.\r\nOpening things up commercially
    will make the web a more vibrant, more readable medium, so that foundries, web
    designers, and end users all benefit a lot, not just a little, which is what we
    get with the oligarchy nudging things along."
  created: '2009-06-14 00:14:03'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@nick\r\nThis time I agree with you. It <em>is</em> a handful of conservative
    designs in a narrow range of styles.\r\nBut typography on the web is in bad shape,
    and it will double the existing palette in very short order.\r\nThat's its main
    virtue. And the CT fonts are exceptionally good for body text at smaller sizes
    - and that seems to be the trickiest and costliest of things to make happen in
    a screen font.\r\n\r\n@sii\r\n>PS - a separate thread on the C* fonts might help
    get Apple\u2019s attention.\r\nGood idea. And you're right, bringing it up here
    is OT. I've signed up for an online course in Berlowese. I'll do better in the
    future.\r\n\r\nTo bring the debate back: How do font vendors feel about the proposal
    that is on the table from Ascender? \r\n"
  created: '2009-06-14 05:06:29'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\u201CHow does Apple lic. or MS CT fonts help me sell (FB) fonts to web designers?\r\nWe
    will only be licensing, for the most part. You want to <em>buy</em> some?\r\n\r\n\"And
    next year who knows what.\"\r\nExactly. Once Adobe ask'd \"Who needs more than
    the 200 fonts [then] in the Adobe Library?\" It's the wrong question; clearly
    few users need more the 200 fonts, but 2 billion users clearly needed more than
    200 as the history of dtp showed.\r\n\r\n\"...it will double the existing palette
    in very short order.\"\r\nFar out. Are we to 70 then?\r\n\r\n\"The CT fonts are
    excellent. Top quality.\"\r\nMaybe you're just talking, and not using, composing,
    rendering and reading these types?\r\n\r\nI don't think the same old solution
    helps anymore and wonder how it got here, (but not to Linux). \r\n\r\nTo really
    take it back to topic, I don't think there is a lot of call for any more purely
    generated font formats. \r\nBut, we will support every single one that contains
    a permissions and recommendations table. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-14 19:12:09'
- author:
    name: cfynn
    picture: 112122
  body: "Richard: <cite>\"CT fonts are exceptionally good for body text at smaller
    sizes - and that seems to be the trickiest and costliest of things to make happen
    in a screen font.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nAt small sizes, the number of possibilities
    for good original body text faces for the web that can be clearly distinguished
    from each other must be limited by screen resolution. Even with hi-resolution
    screens and clever things like CT instructions there must be a finite number of
    ways you can squeeze the letters of the Latin alphabet into pixels available on
    screen at small sizes and have them remain pleasing, clear, legible and easy to
    read -yet distinctive and consistent in style.  \r\n\r\nSure you can always tweak
    round the edges, but to me there seems little point in trying to produce more
    and more of these \"screen fonts\" if they are all going to look pretty much the
    same at the sizes they are used as those we already have. \r\n\r\nWhile there
    still may be some room left for a few more original and useful screen fonts, are
    we ever going to need (or be able to differentiate between) more than two or three
    times the number we already have? \r\n"
  created: '2009-06-15 05:29:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I think you're wrong, but even if you were right about small text size, bear
    in mind that web fonts are scalable, and both web designers and readers may scale
    up the size of type to the point where a lot more individuality is apparent.
  created: '2009-06-15 08:17:49'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: How do font vendors feel about the proposal that is on the table from Ascender?
  created: '2009-06-15 17:19:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I suspect that the lack of response is due to either bafflement with the
    complexities, or the feeling that whatever we say the issue is in the hands of
    the powers that be, a fait accompli. Anyone who was at TypeCon last year, and
    saw the arrogance with which H\xE5kom Lie addressed an audience largely composed
    of the font industry might also have that impression.\r\n\r\nIt's all very well
    to say that the interests of font producers are represented by Microsoft, Apple,
    and Adobe, but ultimately they are not type foundries, although as you say they
    bin berry good to us.\r\n\r\nOr perhaps not many type designers hanging out at
    Typophile. But the consensus in this thread seems to support Bill's proposal.\r\n\r\nFor
    font resellers, I wonder what Stephen Coles has to say on the position of FSI
    (both manufacturer and retailer)?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-15 18:15:46'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Anyone who was at TypeCon\r\n\r\n'twas at ATypI"
  created: '2009-06-15 19:34:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "OK, now I remember.\r\nThanks for organizing that panel, Si."
  created: '2009-06-15 21:31:08'
- author:
    name: dasht
  body: "Hi.  I'm Thomas Lord who is perhaps known to a few as the author of materials
    found on <a href=\"noeot.com\">noeot.com</a> - materials written when some of
    us feared that W3C was going to rush to standardize EOT with requirements that
    root strings (a form of DRM) be enforced by compliant clients.\r\n\r\nI <i>kinda</i>
    like Bill Davis' proposal but I would like to see some improvements and generalizations
    before I can say that I really support it:\r\n\r\nThe proposal suggests that consensus
    might be formed around a standard \"web font\" file format that is (a) distinct
    from legacy formats used for restricted-license fonts;  (b) supports subsets and
    patent-free compression;  (c) conveys copyright, patent, and other licensing information
    in a way that client applications are encouraged to use to keep users fully informed
    about the content.\r\n\r\nStated abstractly like that: I agree with all of those
    goals.\r\n\r\nThe proposal further suggests that some non-free fonts might be
    licensed for web use under terms that require licensees to serve those fonts on
    the web only using existing \"same-origin\" restriction mechanisms.   Some, in
    comments above, have questioned how the customers will feel about this.   I think
    it is a fine idea in principle and a good enough idea if the customers in question
    are willing to work with that.\r\n\r\nHere is where the proposal loses me a bit:\r\n\r\nThe
    proposal is for a new <i>font format</i> specifically.  I think that is not quite
    right.\r\n\r\nThe same concerns motivating this proposal for a new font format
    are shared by makers of non-free image files, video files, audio files, text files,
    and so forth.  That is the first key observation.\r\n\r\nThe second key observation
    is that a <i>single solution for all media types</i> is quite viable: a \"wrapper
    file format\" that can convey licensing information and, by virtue of changing
    the byte-stream - differ from legacy formats.   That is, we can take existing
    font formats of all types and wrap them in a format that adds such things as licensing
    information.   The wrapper would be slightly redundant with some features of existing
    font formats but not by much.\r\n\r\nA wrapper format like that can in principle
    apply to <i>any</i> linked (or \"embedded\", if that is really a concept) resource.
    \  There is nothing \"font specific\" about it.   Clients such as browsers can
    be modified to recognize and unpack such a wrapper in a generic way - not in font-specific
    code.  And thus we solve similar problems for all media types, all at once.\r\n\r\nI
    think that going that route is actually the best way to persuade not only restricted-license
    font vendors but also browser makers to adopt.   The way to encourage that adoption
    is to reach out to people interested in other media types (such as music and video)
    and get them interested as well.  For browser implementors, it is a small change
    to handle this new wrapper format around <i>any</i> media type and to begin to
    add features to, for example, give users convenient access to licensing information
    for \"embedded\" media.\r\n\r\nIt is difficult (probably impossible) for W3C to
    accept in one gulp the idea of a wrapper format across all media types - that's
    a big step for humankind, not a baby step.   Yet it is practical to advertise
    the intent of getting to that point while initially promoting a generic wrapper
    as a solution specifically for the immediate problem of fonts.\r\n\r\nA third
    key point is that the benefits of such wrappers are not unique to distributors
    of \"non-free\" media files.  Those of us who produce libre content are also often
    concerned to see that such things as licensing meta-data is conveyed with the
    work and that users are informed of that meta-data.   A generic wrapper format
    will help libre causes as much as it will help restricted-licensing interests.
    \  Thus, it seems a good centrist position, to me.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\n-t\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-15 23:19:40'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Excellent idea, Thomas.
  created: '2009-06-16 00:24:24'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@Thomas Lord (dasht)\r\nI find your approach very constructive.\r\nGarnering
    support has a lot to do with how the issues are framed."
  created: '2009-06-16 15:40:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Thomas, foundries and their clients have two distinct concerns with regard
    to web-linked fonts. The first is unlicensed use of fonts to display online text,
    which your wrapper proposal addresses. The second is web fonts becoming an open
    distribution mechanism for unlicensed fonts, i.e. people grabbing web-linked fonts
    off servers and making use of them in other media such as print design. While
    browser makers can make the wrapped fonts concept work by only displaying text
    in either a) linked wrapped fonts or b) fonts on the local system, i.e. not unwrapped
    linked fonts, do you think the wrapper mechanism can be made robust enough to
    prevent unwrapping of the font?
  created: '2009-06-16 18:46:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Thomas, can you explain to me the distinction you see between\r\n\r\n<em>root
    strings (a form of DRM)</em>\r\n\r\nand \r\n\r\n<em>\u201Csame-origin\u201D restriction
    mechanisms .... a fine idea in principle</em>"
  created: '2009-06-16 18:50:04'
- author:
    name: dasht
  body: "Thanks James, Richard, and John.  And John, I owe you some answers!  So here:\r\n\r\nYou
    ask the difference between \"root strings\" and \"same-origin restrictions\".
    \ The difference concerns who is enforcing what.\r\n\r\nRoot strings are the notion
    that a font file ought to contain meta-data which says \"this font is intended
    only for use to display web pages from legit.example.com\" - and the browser is
    expected to enforce this.  In the case of a seemingly unauthorized use of the
    font, the browser has the font and has a page from illegit.example.com (or from
    the local disk).  The browser is perfectly capable, technologically speaking,
    of rendering the page using the font - but the root string proposals are that
    to be conforming to standards, the browser must not render the page.\r\n\r\nThe
    problem with root strings is that a user who is already in possession of the page
    from illegit.example.com and already in possession of the font may be doing something
    perfectly legal, perhaps even life critical.  If the browser refuses to permit
    this, it has a bug.  A W3C recommendation should not require browsers to have
    bugs, especially bugs that can be harmful in a life-critical situation.   I have
    a slightly longer form of this argument here: http://noeot.com/shoulda-woulda-coulda.html
    \ That other version focuses on the sometimes eye-splitting use of formal language
    in standards, though.\r\n\r\nIn contrast, the \"same origin\" restriction works
    this way:  suppose that a properly functioning browser loads a page from illegit.example.com
    and that page links to a font from legit.example.com.  When the browser requests
    the font for download, the request includes a declaration from the browser: \"Hey,
    server, I would like font X because it is linked from a page on illegit.example.com\".
    \  If the operator of legit.example.com has configured his server in a certain
    way, the server will say \"I can't give you that font.\"   (If the browser had
    said \"I need this font for a page from legit.example.com\" then the server would
    provide the font.  The browser could lie to the server and perhaps get the font,
    but no standards-conforming browser would do so.)\r\n\r\nIn the \"same origin\"
    scheme, restricted font licenses would require those who use them on the web to
    configure their servers to enforce same-origin restrictions.   \"I'm allowed to
    put this font on the Web but only if I configure my server to not serve it up
    other than for requests based on links from authorized pages.\"\r\n\r\nSame-origin
    restrictions are not a bug, in and of themselves.  It is important for many reasons
    that the operators of servers be able to configure their servers to refuse requests
    for materials linked from certain other sites.   There is the possibility that
    a particular use of same-origin restrictions could be an abuse of that feature
    and could cause life-critical problems and could be called a bug.  Nevertheless,
    nothing about a recommendation to use same-origin restrictions for some fonts
    would force people into such abuses and so a W3C recommendation along those lines
    would not be \"mandating a bug\".\r\n\r\nYour other question is \"can wrapping
    be implemented so as to prevent unwrapping\"?  That is, can't someone download
    a wrapped font, unwrap it, and then (assuming the font is restrictively licensed)
    be in possession of an unauthorized yet fully functional copy of the font?\r\n\r\nNo,
    my proposal can not prevent unwrapping fonts that way.  I don't think that that
    property is unique to my proposal, though: all web font proposals (including the
    original EOT strawman) share the same property.\r\n\r\nI think this is as much
    as anyone can hope for: \"unwrapping\" a font in that way requires one of two
    things.  On the one hand, \"unwrapping\" may happen because a user knows, or ought
    to know that they are circumventing copyright and licensing restrictions.   On
    the other hand, \"unwrapping\" may happen because a user innocently uses a software
    feature that was designed to circumvent copyright protection.   In the first case,
    culpability is easier to attribute to the user after the fact.  In the second
    case, culpability can be attributed to the author of the program the innocent
    user used.\r\n\r\nUnwrapping, origin restrictions, and so forth are always going
    to be \"leaky\" solutions.  That is a fact of the nature of the technology.\r\n\r\nI
    think that what font vendors interested in restricted licensing have to be aware
    of and thoughtful about is the \"RIAA trap\".  If the vendors hope ultimately
    to track down and stop every violator of their licenses they will certainly wind
    up reaching levels of absurdity, bad behavior, and ill repute like those of some
    in the music publishing industry.  The basic reality is that unauthorized use
    of fonts happens, will happen more in the future, and stopping it is not only
    impossible but damaging to those who work to hard at trying.\r\n\r\nRather, I
    think the vendors need to concentrate on mechanisms that help keep honest and
    lawful players lawful and honest.   \r\n\r\nThe idea of a wrapper format for all
    media types helps to create a medium in which honest players conveniently and
    automatically receive, perceive, preserve, and propagate licensing information
    as they obtain, use, and further distribute fonts.   The idea is to simply keep
    honest players fully informed and let them make their own choices, using a simple,
    effective, and simple technological solution.\r\n\r\n-t\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-16 20:06:40'
- author:
    name: billdavis
    picture: 109965
  body: "@Richard:<em>Please clarify: are you are asking for an up-and-down, take-it-or-leave-it
    vote? Or will serious and constructive questions and suggestions be entertained?</em>\r\nWe
    would prefer to hear a vote for and against - and for those who don't like it,
    why not? So yes, we would like comments/suggestions. This discussion has been
    going on for some time, and with raw TTF and OTF support being added by browsers,
    we believe this issue is quickly gaining urgency. Thus the time for discussion
    needs evolve into time for action.\r\n\r\nAnd thanks for driving home the question
    poised to everyone in the font community reading this - what do you think of the
    proposal?\r\n\r\n@Outrasfonts:<em>My question is: Is this new webfont format going
    to be secure enough to prevent a conversion of OTW to OTF/TTF back again?</em>\r\nNo.
    The best analogy is one others have use that OTW is a small fence to prevent people
    from walking into your property. It is not a tall barbed wire fence with security
    cameras. Because the OTW spec will be publicly available, and certainly tools
    and/or SDKs will be published to help developers implement OTW, someone could
    easily write a program for end-users to convert OTW fonts back to TTF/OTF.\r\n\r\nBut
    what OTW does accomplish is clearly communicate that the font is intended for
    web use, vs. TTF and OTF which have been licensed for years by commercial font
    vendors for desktop use only.\r\n\r\n@cfynn: <em>Is the utility for creating OTW
    fonts going to go through & re-write the OpenType lookup tables when subsetting
    a font?</em>\r\nThe best way to answer this is to consider how EOT subsets fonts.
    WEFT does not change the order of glyph IDs when subsetting a font. The OpenType
    Layout tables are not re-written. But the data for the glyphs IDs that are not
    part of the subset are removed.\r\n\r\n@Thomas Lord: Thanks for your comments
    and suggestions. As I stated above, my hope is that we can get some momentum building
    here around a solution for web fonts.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-16 20:14:25'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: '@John: This difference just came up today <a href="http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-style/2009Jun/0159.html">on
    the W3C www-style mailing list</a>: Same-origin restrictions are not the same
    as root strings; the latter are a way to label the website(s) which the font has
    been licensed for, and require browsers to not render the font if the URL is not
    on the label. One effect of this is that other sites can not "cross link" to your
    site''s fonts - a same-origin restriction. But a same origin restriction can be
    put in place without any information in the fonts; its just a standard feature
    of web servers and web browsers, useful for lots of different kinds of web assets,
    such as Javascript files (where http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-site_scripting
    is a security issue.)'
  created: '2009-06-16 20:26:24'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>How do font vendors feel about the proposal that is on the table from
    Ascender?</cite>\r\n\r\nMy personal reaction to it is that it seems to address
    the significant issues that Adobe is concerned with. (But since Adobe and Monotype
    and many others were already in agreement about EOT, this will not be news to
    Bill.)\r\n\r\nfor now, I am following the discussion with interest. Bill, thanks
    for keeping this issue on the front burner."
  created: '2009-06-16 22:18:38'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: '@Chris: <em>since Adobe and Monotype and many others were already in agreement
    about EOT, this will not be news</em> - But since EOT is starkly different to
    Ascender''s proposal, this is indeed somewhat news (although clearly just your
    personal view.)'
  created: '2009-06-16 22:37:14'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>But since EOT is starkly different to Ascender\u2019s proposal ...</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    would not characterize the differences as \"stark\", but I know what you mean."
  created: '2009-06-17 02:00:29'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@billdavis and all...\r\n\r\n<strong>Compression And Reduction Of File Sizes</strong>\r\nI
    am confused/concerned about this only. As will be many web developers. Sub-setting,
    of course, can reduce the file size drastically. However, I've yet to get a definitive
    answer about compression. I have it from Thomas Phinney that OTF CFF provides
    a high degree of compression on it's own. But can it be improved? Also, TTF's
    are going to be around for a long while. One of the virtues of EOT is that it
    does quite well at compressing TTF's down to conscionable levels.\r\nEven when
    sub-setted, calling a font-family's regular, italic, and bold faces takes three
    separate calls to the server. That, plus the size of each OTF can easily make
    web authors very, very leery. Every extra second of download time can cost you
    visitors.\r\nYes, it's possible a standard compression mechanism like gzip can
    be brought into play. But that's very much a \"server side\" thing that many authors
    have no familiarity with. Plus, many if not most, don't have access to the server
    configuration files required to make that happen.\r\nMuch better the OTW file
    itself be as small as possible.\r\n\r\nI don't have any skin in this game right
    now except as an informed commentator on <a href=\"http://www.readableweb.com\">Readable
    Web</a> where I'll be following closely the successes and failures as font-linking
    is actually deployed. (<em>Wink:</em> Might be worth an <a href=\"http://readableweb.com/feed/\">RSS
    feed</a>.)\r\n\r\nI vote yes, go for it, and don't let go. In my humble opinion,
    developers aren't going to be too happy 24 months from now. Bloated pages with
    little to show for it.\r\n\r\nThis is going to be a long show. There will be an
    intermission AND a 2nd act. But at least, finally, the curtain is going up."
  created: '2009-06-17 04:58:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Thanks for the detailed explanation of the difference between root strings
    and same origin restrictions, Thomas. While I think the case against root strings
    is overstated and ignores the variety of fallback mechanisms that can kick in
    if a font cannot legitimately be served, I agree that the same origin restriction
    mechanism looks more appealing.\r\n\r\n<em>Unwrapping, origin restrictions, and
    so forth are always going to be \u201Cleaky\u201D solutions.</em>\r\n\r\nI guess
    this to be the case, but wanted to see it plainly stated in the context of this
    discussion. Thanks.\r\n\r\n<em>I think that what font vendors interested in restricted
    licensing have to be aware of....</em>\r\n\r\nFor me, this isn't so much a matter
    of being a font vendor interested in restricted licensing, but of being a maker
    of custom fonts whose clients are interested in protecting their investment. They
    want to use their custom typefaces on their websites, but not compromise the exclusivity
    that is a core value of the investment."
  created: '2009-06-17 05:05:17'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "Richard, [[http://www.adobe.com/type/opentype/qna.html|this blurb]] from
    an Adobe type FAQ helps a little:\r\n\r\n<cite> All OpenType fonts with PostScript
    outlines (.otf) use Compact Font Format (CFF, or Type 2) for considerable size
    reduction. Although CFF is not strictly compression, since the outlines do not
    have to be decompressed to be rendered, the result is still more compact than
    Type 1. Adobe\u2019s OpenType fonts also use subroutinization for additional size
    reduction. OpenType fonts with TrueType outlines (.ttf) have the option of using
    compression technology licensed by Microsoft.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt seems we might
    have specific numbers somewhere, but I'll have to look around. Can it be improved?
    I don't really know the answer, but my gut feeling is that -- like other lossless
    compression like TIFF or FLAC -- it's probably about as compressed as it's going
    to get. As Thomas pointed out, there is some benefit to compressing the layout
    tables, especially when they're large, but you'll probably find that ZIP-ing CFF-OTFs
    doesn't do too much."
  created: '2009-06-17 05:11:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Whatever the merits of EOT, its time has come and gone.\r\nSeveral formats
    once seemed promising, e.g. Multiple Master, GX.\r\nSo OTW stands a better chance
    now.\r\nAlthough it does seem a bit close to the suffix \".otf\"--that might be
    confusing.\r\n\r\nI have a hard time understanding all the technicalities about
    \"embedding bits\" etc.\r\nI would like to be able to make \".otw\" fonts for
    web licensing, with FontLab.\r\nIf OTW could be added to the short list of font
    formats in the Fontlab \"Generate font\" dialog, that would open up the market
    for foundries.\r\nAnd similarly, it would appear as an option at font reseller
    sites. \r\n\r\nWe really do need a specific format with suffix, otherwise customers
    will be wondering whether the .otf or .ttf fonts they have licensed may be used
    on the web or not, and they are not going to go looking in the EULA.\r\n\r\nSo
    I can see myself licensing an enterprise font solution to a corporation, that
    contains both .otf and .otw versions of the same font, so they are covered for
    both web and print use.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-17 05:15:22'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite> For me, this isn\u2019t so much a matter of being a font vendor interested
    in restricted licensing, but of being a maker of custom fonts whose clients are
    interested in protecting their investment. They want to use their custom typefaces
    on their websites, but not compromise the exclusivity that is a core value of
    the investment.</cite>\r\n\r\nJohn, that's a great point! Thanks for mentioning
    it."
  created: '2009-06-17 05:17:27'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "(I think Bill's proposal is reasonable enough, but the question is what the
    people representing font vendors and browser makers think.)\r\n\r\nNick Shinn
    wrote: <cite>Thanks for organizing that panel, Si.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat was me,
    actually. I was happy to get H\xE5kon Lie (Opera, CSS, driving force behind @font-face
    popularization) and Bert Bos (W3C) on the panel for the discussion at ATypI. I
    think it was effective at exposing underlying philosophical differences between
    Lie and the type community, of which there are several.\r\n\r\nRich wrote: <cite>Is
    it that costly for Apple to give us this, I wonder?\r\nOr is support for @font-face
    in Safari an attempted end-run around it?</cite>\r\n\r\nNeither. The fundamental
    thing is that Apple already offers lots of fonts, and doing something that makes
    the Mac more like Windows, costs money, and doesn't really do anything dramatic
    for the Web is not likely of interest to Apple.\r\n\r\n(Contrary to what you say,
    I don't think that adding just another half dozen typefaces in four styles each
    to the \"web safe\" set would be such a huge improvement. Nice to have, but not
    huge. If I were Apple, I wouldn't be beating down Microsoft or Ascender's door,
    either.)\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-06-17 16:07:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Sorry Thomas, thank <em>you</em>!\r\n\r\n<em>philosophical</em>\r\n\r\nPolitical,
    more like.\r\nThis is philosophy: Stakeholders are \"consulted\", and then the
    powers that be go ahead and do what they were going to do anyway.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-17 17:14:21'
- author:
    name: outrasfontes
    picture: 112120
  body: "Thanks for the clear answer, Bill.\r\n\r\nI agree that having a different
    format for web use seems to be easier for the font user/purchaser to understand
    wich one is good for desktop use and wich one is suitable for web purposes. This
    seems to be a user friendly thought."
  created: '2009-06-17 18:04:57'
- author:
    name: Vlad Levantovsky
    picture: 117231
  body: "@Richard re: Compression and reduction of file sizes\r\n\r\n<em>\u2026 OTF
    CFF provides a high degree of compression on it\u2019s own. But can it be improved?</em>\r\n\r\nCFF
    outlines are much more compact than PostScript Type 1; however the differences
    in size between TTF and OTF are primarily due to the way how outlines are encoded.
    TTF employs a drastically different hinting mechanism; TTF fonts that are optimized
    for screen use can easily be twice the size of the same font in OTF format because
    of the amount of additional hinting code that went into it to make it optimized
    for screen use \u2013 the difference isn\u2019t just due to compression.\r\n\r\nCan
    OTF size be improved? \r\nYes, it can. I ran a quick and simple experiment with
    one of the Monotype fonts \u2013 same typeface that is represented in TTF font
    format uses 66 KB of data, and the OTF font file size is 30 KB (again, mostly
    due to differences in outline representation and hinting). Compressed OTF (using
    WinZIP) brought the file size down to 18 KB. I also tried Adobe MinionPro (regular)
    \u2013 OTF size=201 KB, WinZIP=130 KB.\r\n\r\n<em> One of the virtues of EOT is
    that it does quite well at compressing TTF\u2019s down to conscionable levels.</em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    it does. MTX compression (which is part of EOT, http://www.w3.org/Submission/2008/SUBM-MTX-20080305/)
    is a two-step process \u2013 first stage converts TTF file to minimize/eliminate
    the redundancy in font data and to subdivide it in separate data blocks that are
    likely to have similar (repetitive) data patterns; these are likely to produce
    better compression results when entropy coding is applied at the second stage.
    The decompressor reverses the process and re-creates TTF font from the compressed
    dataset. I ran a quick and simple test using WinZIP (at maximum compression level),
    WEFT and Windows fonts Times NR, Arial, Georgia and Verdana with no subsetting.
    Here are the results (in KB):\r\n[font]   [uncompressed]  [WinZIP]  [WEFT]\r\nTimes
    NR    316          181       142\r\nArial       267          148       113\r\nGeorgia
    \    140          90        67\r\nVerdana     137          81        59\r\n\r\nAs
    can be seen, ZIP file size is on average ~30% larger than EOT size. Please note
    that OTF fonts share the same table structure as TTF fonts \u2013 the only difference
    between them are TTF and CFF outline tables. Therefore, MTX compression can be
    easily modified to be applied for OTF fonts - separately compress CFF table and
    apply the same optimization and compression algorithm for all other tables in
    a font. I am confident that the OTF compression results will be better with MTX
    than with generic ZIP.\r\n\r\n<em> \u2026 Much better the OTW file itself be as
    small as possible</em>\r\nYes, I agree. Ascender proposal addresses only a light-weight
    obfuscation part of the overall solution \u2013 but if combined with the same-origin
    restrictions (e.g. CORS)  and efficient compression it would  become a viable
    alternative to EOT solution.\r\n\r\nVlad\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-17 19:53:38'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Great additions thanks!\r\n\r\n>A W3C recommendation should not require browsers
    to have bugs, especially bugs that can be harmful in a life-critical situation\r\n\r\nSince
    permissions and their conditions are up to this industry, and we are not actually
    making life-critical typographic decisions, I see both \u201Croot strings\u201D
    and \u201Csame-origin restrictions\u201D should be part of any comprehensive font
    permissions solution. What, users, developers, user agents and recommendations
    bodies do about these permissions and conditions, including root string and same-origin
    restriction permissions in the fonts, is up to them.  \r\n\r\n> what OTW does
    accomplish is clearly communicate that the font is intended for web use\r\n\r\n...though
    not so fast. ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-06-17 20:11:03'
- author:
    name: dasht
  body: "John (Mr. Hudson), you wrote: <i>\"They want to use their custom typefaces
    on their websites, but not compromise the exclusivity that is a core value of
    the investment.\"</i>\r\n\r\nI agree with Christopher Slye that that's an excellent
    point.  The web does a very good job of messing up the traditional boundaries
    between \"performance\" of a work and \"distribution\" of the work.  From what
    little I'm beginning to understand about font maker history this isn't exactly
    new (e.g, Zapf copies) but the web raises the stakes to a whole new level.\r\n\r\nHopefully
    without being too discursive I would note that other media are facing similar
    problems.  Newspaper content migrates to blogs and search engines which become
    the primary means of consumption, often depriving the makers of revenue.  Music
    recordings suffer similarly.  Video content has the same problems.  All of those
    other industries have been thrashing, for years, in search of a solution to the
    loss of traditional money-making models.   The battles have reached absurd extremes
    - for example, the \"net neutrality\" debate in legislatures and regulatory offices
    around the world are fueled, in no small extent, by motivations and suspicions
    of motivations about various parties trying claw back a more traditional notion
    of walled-garden \"performance\" of works on the web as distinct from distribution.
    \ The very concept of \"DRM\" comes from the same efforts.\r\n\r\nFont makers
    have a rough road ahead.  I guess that's another thing everyone knows but that
    is worth saying out loud - putting it plainly and frankly on the table.  The problem
    is that digital fonts are \"naturally\" (that is, technologically) non-rival.
    \ Copies inevitably propagate.  Mediation in the form of regulation and law enforcement
    is not absolutely pointless but, to a first approximation, is quite pointless.
    \ (That's \"pointless\" in the sense of \"not going to work\".)\r\n\r\nWhat <i>does</i>
    work, I think, is concentrating on the commercial world - on commercial uses of
    fonts as contrasted with private or personal use.  The law still functions, almost
    even slightly efficiently in that area.  For example:\r\n\r\nSuppose that we have
    a font whose public licensing information states \"no commercial use without consent\".
    \ Well, even if a million random bloggers use the font on their non-commercial
    pages, still, Amazon won't use it on Kindle absent consent (or if they do they
    can be called to account and they'll settle quickly).  You won't see the font
    on Google's home page unless an arrangement has been made.  And if you spot it
    on some paid advertisement from an unauthorized third party - it's easy enough
    to bring an action against the advertiser, even it's a dinky \"Joe's Bait, Tackle,
    and Beer Shoppe\".  Where there are legal revenue streams attached to the use
    of a font, there is still the chance of enforcing restrictions.\r\n\r\nThe commercial
    world, with its formalities, is the place where exclusivity can still reign.  And
    I say that as a big proponent of libre fonts!\r\n\r\nNow there are some challenges
    for the font industry - challenges the video and audio industries have been wrestling
    with for a few years.  Key among these is \"private policing\".\r\n\r\n\"Private
    policing\" is the activity of privately paying up front for snoops to go and find,
    on the big Internet, instances of unauthorized commercial use of copyrighted material.
    \ To give you some sense of how far that game is advanced in audio and video recordings:
    \ there is a substantial market for software programs that do things like study
    all of the videos on YouTube to \"listen\" for cases of soundtracks that make
    unauthorized use of restricted-license song recordings.  So if, say, the group
    Metallica complains that one of their songs is being used in impermissible ways
    on YouTube, one of these programs can go and automagically find all the videos
    that seem to use that song and flag them for review and/or removal.\r\n\r\nI think
    that fonts are going to have to go a similar direction.  The already wide-spread
    unauthorized use of restricted-license fonts will grow but there is still opportunity
    to constrain commercial use of fonts.  That opportunity, however, requires a private
    investment in policing and that investment requires careful thought about costs
    and benefits.\r\n\r\nTo bring this full circle (and thanks for reading this far,
    if you have):  the \"wrapper format\" refinement or counter-proposal or however
    you wish to describe it... the essence is to foreclose the purely innocent but
    unauthorized conveyance of fonts by creating a uniform and ubiquitous mechanism
    for, by default, always conveying licensing information along with fonts.  Whether
    you are in the legal game to protect the status of your libre font or in the game
    to protect your restricted license you have a hook to hang your hat on if you
    find a use of your font that either lacks the wrapped licensing information or
    is a use in violation of that licensing information.  \r\n\r\nI think that that's
    as much as you can hope for in the digital wonderland / Internet age but I also
    think it's not such a bad arrangement.  My hope is to see it come to pass for
    fonts quickly, simply, and agreeably to all stakeholders.\r\n\r\nOne last thing:\r\n\r\nI
    think that there is hope beyond \"exclusivity\" in this way:\r\n\r\n\"Design\"
    taken in a very broad sense is inherently rival, even on the web.  The design
    of a web presentation is a situated thing, not a file that can be copied.  Fonts
    are an element of design.  Thus, I foresee a future in which there is a much larger
    emphasis on bespoke font design as an element of larger design projects.   The
    downside here is loss of royalties - loss of premium fees.  There will be talented
    font makers who agree to work, basically, for an hourly rate to create non-rival
    or less-rival fonts and they will come to dominate the market.  The \"font publisher\"
    industry will dry up but individual font-makers can still make a living.  A few
    real super-stars can make a handsome living.   At least by analogy, that's the
    pattern taking place in the software development world and I don't see any essential
    difference between that and the font world that would prevent the pattern from
    repeating itself.   So perhaps the thing to do is embrace that and work on preparing
    for it....\r\n\r\n-t\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-17 20:56:06'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\u201CThey want to use their custom typefaces on their websites, but not
    compromise the exclusivity that is a core value of the investment.\u201D\r\n\r\nYes
    obviously \u2014 we started with this idea more than a couple of years ago, but
    it's got legs limited by a small number interested in proprietary font exclusivity
    (founders and custom font IP owners). \r\n\r\nMore broadly, we think 'they' want
    to use 'their' combinations of faces, proprietary or not, that (along with other
    more and less unique elements like logo and colors) give them a unique visual
    ID. This is the core value, the entity ID, not the font(s).\r\n\r\nThis brings
    the numbers of potentially interested parties up into the 100's of millions, but
    also brings the need for rigorous policing of extensively detailed permissions
    on the part of all kinds of font IP owners. \r\n\r\nAnd it's hard to imagine,
    just another wrapper, alone, fixing visual identity theft. ;) \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-06-18 13:57:28'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@Vlad\r\nThank you for the analysis on compression.\r\nI can't remember where
    I saw it, but someone commented that MTX compression is under Patent and either
    can't be freed up or won't be freed up by Monotype in a manner suitable to the
    W3C guidelines so as to be included in a spec, should it come to that.\r\nTrue?
    Is that commenter correct? What's the story?\r\n\r\n@Thomas Phinney\r\n>\"(Contrary
    to what you say, I don\u2019t think that adding just another half dozen typefaces
    in four styles each to the \u201Cweb safe\u201D set would be such a huge improvement.
    Nice to have, but not huge. If I were Apple, I wouldn\u2019t be beating down Microsoft
    or Ascender\u2019s door, either.)\"\r\n\r\nThere is only one \"web safe\" serif
    font that looks any good for body text: Georgia. You're looking at it right now.
    That's it. One. (If anybody wants to argue for Times New Roman as a good screen
    font, go ahead, please.)\r\nGrilled cheese for lunch again, day after day after
    day.\r\nCambria or Constantia would be a nice change, yes. Even if only on Wednesdays.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    my mantra....\r\n\r\nHow do font makers feel about Ascender's proposal?\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-19 15:52:42'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: As a talentless hack who will never release any font of note, I think the
    idea is a good one. The discussion here demonstrates that there really isn't any
    workable solution which will make everyone happy. Such is reality in a Web 2.0
    era. End users expect all sorts of customizations. Wasn't everyone much happier
    with gopher and lynx?
  created: '2009-06-22 01:29:36'
- author:
    name: Vlad Levantovsky
    picture: 117231
  body: "@Richard\r\n<em>... someone commented that MTX compression is under Patent
    and either can\u2019t be freed up or won\u2019t be freed up by Monotype in a manner
    suitable to the W3C guidelines so as to be included in a spec, should it come
    to that.\r\nTrue? Is that commenter correct?</em>\r\n\r\nNothing can be further
    from the truth!\r\nMTX is a patented technology, however, Monotype Imaging has
    disclosed this fact and, as a member of W3C, made a commitment to make the IP
    availbale under W3C Royalty-free policy. These statements are included as part
    of the original EOT submission: http://www.w3.org/Submission/2008/01/\r\n\r\nMozilla
    complained that the W3C patent policy has a provision known as a \"field of use
    restriction\" that makes it incompatible with some open-source licenses. This
    issue has also been recently clarified, see http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-style/2009Jun/0228.html\r\n\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nVlad\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-22 18:57:01'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@Vlad\r\n\r\nThanks for clearing this up. Sounds like another roadblock cleared.
    (I hope.)\r\nI have been asked to write an article about Ascender's proposal and
    the status of web-fonts in general for <a href=\"http://www.webdirections.org\">Web
    Directions</a> which has a wide following in the web design community. Especially
    among designers who are standards-aware. I'll incorporate this into the article.\r\nI'm
    very curious to see who else thinks a web-font file format should be intrinsically
    compressed, independent of any additional processing. Compression as a second
    step is inherently less efficient, for most, probably inconvenient, and is, in
    many cases, simply beyond the author's authority to implement on the web server.\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2009-06-23 05:27:11'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-style/2009Jun/0228.html\r\n>The
    problem can easily  be solved by deploying a font wrapper like EOT that simply
    reduces the risk of font piracy.\r\n\r\nVlad, can you please list the main steps
    from where we are, to where EOT is deployed to all? e.g. \"step X = all user environments
    are upgraded to include EOT unpacking software\" Or provide a link to same?\r\n\r\nAlso,
    can you list exactly the risk reduction afforded by this technology? When is the
    \"raw\" font more vulnerable to piracy than an EOT font? When is an EOT font more
    protected from piracy than a \"raw\" font?\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-23 13:23:19'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@dberlow\r\n\r\n>Also, can you list exactly the risk reduction afforded by\r\n>this
    technology? When is the \u201Craw\u201D font more vulnerable to\r\n>piracy than
    an EOT font? When is an EOT font more\r\n>protected from piracy than a \u201Craw\u201D
    font?\r\n\r\nOh, come on, man. When I crack an egg, drop it into the frying pan
    and begin to stir, at what point, precisely, does it actually become \"scrambled\"?\r\n\r\nMy
    problem is, David, I can't tell whether you're being facetious or not. My class
    in Berlowese doesn't start until the fall semester.\r\n\r\nEither way:\r\n\r\nGo
    ahead, don't make decisions. Play around. End up with nothing. Not even the satisfaction
    of having done the best you could with the hand you were dealt.\r\n\r\nThe rise
    of the Internet is the greatest technological and societal change any of us has
    ever seen or will ever see in our lifetime. Contribute to it, deal with it, or
    get trampled. Those are your choices.\r\n\r\nSo, how <strong>do</strong> font-makers
    feel about Ascender's new web-fonts proposal?"
  created: '2009-06-23 20:06:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>The rise of the Internet is the greatest technological and societal change
    any of us has ever seen or will ever see in our lifetime. Contribute to it, deal
    with it, or get trampled. Those are your choices.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's bullshit,
    not least because no one can know the future. \r\nIt's hard to raise a response
    from foundries, because we are generally go-it-alone entrepreneurs used to playing
    the cards we're dealt, and not having any say in how the game is played. I'm trusting
    Microsoft to look after my interests, that's their m.o. and dey bin berry good
    to me, as you recently pointed out. Bullying with hyperbolic ultimatums is a turn-off.\r\n\r\n<em>So,
    how do font-makers feel about Ascender\u2019s new web-fonts proposal?</em>\r\n\r\nAs
    I said, I support it 100%, for the reasons that Ray explained.\r\nFor a larger
    poll, let's see how this plays out at TypeCon."
  created: '2009-06-23 21:34:08'
- author:
    name: Vlad Levantovsky
    picture: 117231
  body: "@Richard\r\n<em>Compression as a second step is inherently less efficient,
    for most, probably inconvenient, and is, in many cases, simply beyond the author\u2019s
    authority to implement on the web server.</em>\r\n\r\nAnd from your earlier post:\r\n<em>
    ... plus the size of each OTF can easily make web authors very, very leery. Every
    extra second of download time can cost you visitors.</em>\r\n\r\nCompression as
    a second step to what?\r\n\r\nIf you are referring to compression that is applied
    after a simple obfuscation proposed by Ascender, then its compression efficiency
    is going to be exactly the same as if you applied compression to an original (un-obfuscated)
    TTF or OTF font.\r\n\r\nIf you refer to compression as a second obfuscation step
    - then the overall obfuscation results will be a lot more efficient as well -
    the simple obfuscation proposed by Ascender can be easily reversed by hand using
    any available binary file editor. Using compression as obfuscation is not bulletproof
    - I am sure there will be an application available on the net that people can
    download and use to decompress the font file, but there are certain risks involved
    in doing this and I doubt that many people will actually do it.\r\n\r\nThe bottom
    line - targeted font compression will benefit both authors and web users, and
    can also benefit font vendors as an additional step in obfuscation mechanism.
    More so, there are quite a few people who are against applying any sort of obfuscation
    for fonts but they do agree that font compression is valuable.\r\n\r\nRegarding
    the author's ability to implement it on a web server \u2013 correct me if I am
    wrong but in this particular case I think we should be considering these possible
    options:\r\n1) authors use raw fonts \u2013 they create the content and the CSS
    file that references the fonts and font files to be hosted by a server;\r\n2)
    authors create the content and the CSS file that references the fonts and font
    files but use fonts obfuscated according to the algorithm Ascender has proposed
    (assuming using readily available tools or web-based service that does it for
    the author), then they provide obfuscated fonts to be hosted on a server;\r\n3)
    same as option 2, but the fonts are also compressed (either by the same tool that
    obfuscates them or by the same web-based service (e.g. similar to what Ascender
    offers today for EOT conversion)\r\n4) same as option 3, but you only compress
    the fonts before placing them on a server.\r\n\r\nWhat\u2019s the difference between
    these options that could possibly affect the author\u2019s authority to implement
    either one of them on the web server?\r\nI do agree with you on your second statement
    I quoted when you say that every second will cost you visitors (and I should also
    add that every second spent downloading a font will also cost you money \u2013
    you pay for the bandwidth). This opinion is also shared by many on the CSS list,
    here are some of them:\r\n\r\n\u201CYup, good compression/subsetting is a valuable
    feature in any web-font format, because many of the world's non-European descended
    languages have very large character sets that overlap little to not at all with
    English characters.\u201D \r\n(from http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-style/2009Jun/0236.html)\r\n\r\n\u201CIndeed,
    and there are some attractive technical benefits to EOT, or something similar
    to it. If you can definitely confirm Monotype's commitment to offer a fully GPL-compatible
    patent license, ideally with at least draft text of such a potential license (so
    that others can independently evaluate the issue of license compatibility), then
    I think the chance of persuading non-MS browser developers to consider adding
    EOT support will be considerably improved.\r\n\r\n> The solution that is *only*
    suitable for free fonts is not a good solution.\r\n\r\nCertainly. And even for
    free fonts, the compression possibilities of EOT could still be very worthwhile.\u201D\r\n(from
    http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-style/2009Jun/0309.html)\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nVlad\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-23 22:31:42'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@Vlad\r\n\r\nIt's probably my fault in not explaining myself more clearly
    - but I think we actually agree. Sill, I'd like to get what you're saying absolutely
    straight in my mind. It's late here. Let me re-read your post sometime tomorrow
    and make sure I understand what you're saying, compare it to what I thought I
    was saying, and get back to you.\r\n\r\n@nick\r\n\r\nBullying is the farthest
    thing from my mind. More like pointing out that there's a freight train coming
    at you and, as it happens, you're standing on the tracks. That's all. The train's
    coming through, whether you stand there or not.\r\nBut you're right, that style
    of rhetoric doesn't help. And the situation isn't that dire. Web fonts won't bring
    certain death. I screwed up in wording it that way.\r\nI agree that the opinions
    of \"the little guys\" are <strong>probably</strong> not going to make a difference
    in the outcome. But please don't proceed on that assumption and stay silent. (And,
    wisely, you have not.) Words count. Bill Davis is asking this for a reason. I
    don't think it's window dressing. IMHO. I've corresponded with browser developers
    who do care about whether or not a new file format will influence the quality
    and variety of fonts available for use in web pages.\r\nAnd yes, I agree that
    you do owe Microsoft major thanks for holding the line. The motivation might be
    mostly self-serving, but who cares?\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-24 06:22:40'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Duh. The lack of step-by-step descriptions of each proposal are hampering
    understanding. \r\nI asked, someone who's lost me barfed at my request. So...
    we listen to more nonsense without a clue. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-06-24 12:04:30'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@dberlow\r\n\r\nNow we agree! (I think.)\r\nA step-by-step description of
    the process or - I think easier to understand - <strong>a list of changes made
    to the OTF that turns it into an OTW file</strong>.\r\nMaybe that can clear up
    the fogginess. I'll be working on it, as I understand the proposal(s) now to be.\r\nA
    simple explanation free of jargon - for myself and others who aren't familiar
    with (and, mostly, couldn't care less about) the intricacies of OpenType or MTX.\r\nAn
    explanation of how this new file format differs from a regular OTF.\r\nOnce that's
    done it's a lot easier to discuss what problems it solves, the pros and cons,
    and how it can be deployed.\r\n\r\nLater,\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2009-06-24 13:32:21'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: '@rich: <em>The rise of the Internet is the greatest technological and societal
    change any of us has ever seen or will ever see in our lifetime</em> - um, what
    about peak oil?'
  created: '2009-06-24 17:35:11'
- author:
    name: Vlad Levantovsky
    picture: 117231
  body: "@dberlow\r\n<em>Vlad, can you please list the main steps from where we are,
    to where EOT is deployed to all?</em>\r\n\r\nDavid, sorry for a delay in answering
    your questions, I\u2019ve been swamped.\r\n\r\nThe proposal that is currently
    being considered by W3C has evolved from the original EOT solution and includes
    the following aspects:\r\n- same-origin restriction (which can be lifted by access
    control headers on a server side), and\r\n- simple obfuscation + targeted font
    compression.\r\n\r\nSame-origin restriction and access control are intended to
    restrict other websites from using fonts on your server (and would work very similar
    to what Ralf Hermann described in one of his posts).\r\n\r\nAside from this, there
    are two steps that would be required to implement:\r\n- on authoring side: an
    original font will be processed by a tool that obfuscates a font according to
    the algorithm proposed by Ascender, compresses the data and stores it in a web
    font wrapper format on a server (something like what WEFT used to do, only easier
    to use and author-friendly). Authors will then be able to reference this file
    from CSS stylesheet, and there will be no need for authors to implement special
    handling of fonts for different browsers.\r\n- on browser side: a browser unwraps
    downloaded font file (which would include decompression and de-obfuscation) and
    processes it the same way raw fonts would be processed.\r\n\r\nThe benefits of
    this solution:\r\n- Simple and unified workflow for web authors, universally supported
    by all browsers (at least, this is the goal);\r\n- Font files that are placed
    on a server are wrapped in a web-specific format. The font data is compressed
    which will reduce the download time.\r\n- Simple pre-processing on browser side,
    compatibility with the existing and already implemented raw TrueType workflow.\r\n\r\nWrapped
    fonts cannot be downloaded and installed as a system font, one would have to use
    a software tool to unwrap and decompress a font first. I am sure someone will
    come up with such tool, and it\u2019s impossible to completely prevent font piracy,
    but such actions would mean willful act of piracy and I doubt many people would
    want to do it. \r\nTo the contrary, having raw fonts on a server means that anybody
    can download and install a font as is, and people may likely to consider this
    as appropriate action (simply because font is on a server, unprotected and easy
    to grab).\r\n\r\nI cannot give you any exact estimate of risk reduction afforded
    by the font wrapper solution, but, as an analogy, I see this solution like a small
    padlock on the door \u2013 something that is easy to put in place, will not stop
    a burglar but will deliver a clear message: \u201Cdo not enter\u201D.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nVlad\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-24 17:47:20'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@vlad\r\n>\"<em>Aside from this, there are two steps that would be required
    to implement:\r\n- on authoring side: an original font will be processed by a
    tool that obfuscates a font according to the algorithm proposed by Ascender, compresses
    the data and stores it in a web font wrapper format on a server (something like
    what WEFT used to do, only easier to use and author-friendly). Authors will then
    be able to reference this file from CSS stylesheet, and there will be no need
    for authors to implement special handling of fonts for different browsers.\r\n-
    on browser side: a browser unwraps downloaded font file (which would include decompression
    and de-obfuscation) and processes it the same way raw fonts would be processed.</em>\"\r\n\r\nThis
    is very clear and simple. Thanks. We ARE talking about the same thing.\r\n\r\nThe
    only concern I have is with this phrase:\r\n\"<strong>compresses the data and
    stores it in a web font wrapper format on a server</strong>\"\r\nThis seems to
    me to skip a step and possibly create the wrong impression.\r\nIt makes it sound
    like the web author who uses the tool to create an OTW file somehow doesn't control
    the file in the same way he or she controls a gif or a jpg or the OTF of a free
    font. As if there's some weird requirement that the file exist only on a server
    from the moment of its creation.\r\nTo clear this up: As a web author, I would
    use a Weft-like tool to create an OTW file. I would then place it on my web server.
    I would then use the font by linking to it via @font-face rules in the CSS.\r\nCorrect?\r\n\r\nFurther:
    Regarding the same-domain restriction, I am concerned about pages that are saved
    by users to their local hard drives. Will the fonts be available? \r\nI'm also
    very, very concerned about HTML pages that are a part of E-books created along
    the lines of the E-Pub specification.\r\nIn those instances, there is no http
    domain to speak of.\r\nNow, the Weft tool allows you to specify drive letters
    like C:, D:, E:, etc... for this purpose. You can also specify sub-folders like
    C:\\mybooks, D:\\mybooks\\janeaustin, etc...\r\nTherefore, I don't foresee any
    objections to \"off-line\" usage of this kind.\r\nThe OTW file is still uninstallable
    as it is. It is no less or more protected than if I had peeked at the CSS and
    specifically downloaded the OTW on it's own.\r\n\r\nHowever, I think this very
    much needs to be clarified. I don't want the browser to balk just because the
    OTW is being called from the local hard drive and not a web server. If a visitor
    to my site decides to save a page and then, when they open it up for re-reading,
    my formatting blows up because the font is no longer available <em>to that page</em>,
    I've got a big problem. That's a bad scenario.\r\n(And by the way, it's not unusual
    for a web designer or developer to work with a page this way - displayed off a
    local drive, independent of a locally running http server like Apache or IIS.)\r\n\r\nWithin
    E-Books, it's even more critical that formatting be preserved.* \r\n\r\nThoughts
    from anyone about this?\r\n\r\n\r\n*When all this font-embedding business finally
    gets worked out, it will take a few years but there actually <strong>will</strong>
    be such a thing as font-based web design. Just like, uh, books and magazines.
    Remember them? Talk about potential.\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-25 17:00:11'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "\"San Francisco, Calif. \u2014 June 24, 2009 \u2014 Small Batch Inc. announced
    today that they have secured a round of equity funding from a group of investors
    led by San Francisco-based True Ventures. Small Batch is developing Typekit, a
    service enabling designers to build sites with web-native typography.\r\n\r\n\u201CThis
    funding is the next step in our plan for bringing real typography to the web,\u201D
    said Bryan Mason, Small Batch co-founder and President . \u201CWe want to build
    a nimble, safe tool that makes it easier for web designers to do amazing design
    online, and a lot of people believe in that goal. We\u2019re excited and humbled
    by the team of investors supporting us.\u201D\r\n\r\n[[http://blog.typekit.com/|Link.]]"
  created: '2009-06-25 19:00:47'
- author:
    name: Vlad Levantovsky
    picture: 117231
  body: "@Richard\r\n<em>To clear this up: As a web author, I would use a Weft-like
    tool to create an OTW file. I would then place it on my web server. I would then
    use the font by linking to it via @font-face rules in the CSS.\r\nCorrect?</em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    I thought it would be self-evident and skipped it for brevity. And by \"a web
    font wrapper format\" I meant OTW or whatever format/extension we might adopt
    in the future.\r\n\r\n<em>Further: Regarding the same-domain restriction, I am
    concerned about pages that are saved by users to their local hard drives. Will
    the fonts be available?</em>\r\n\r\nI would like to make what I believe is an
    important distinction: \"same-domain\" vs. \"same-origin\" restriction. I mentioned
    the latter, which should work just fine with saved or cached content - since the
    fonts do come from the same origin. The same should be true for any content on
    your local drive, E-book, etc.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nVlad\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-25 19:49:45'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@vlad\r\n\r\nUnderstood. Thanks for the clarification.\r\nHave also started
    following more closely the back-and-forth at w3.org.\r\n\r\nStay cheerful,\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2009-06-26 01:02:15'
- author:
    name: billdavis
    picture: 109965
  body: 'I just posted an update to our previous web fonts proposal. It can be found
    here: [[http://typophile.com/node/59489]]'
  created: '2009-06-29 16:55:58'
- author:
    name: Philip Taylor
  body: "Hmm, I'm a bit late to this discussion, but anyway:\r\n\r\n@billdavis: \"WEFT
    does not change the order of glyph IDs when subsetting a font. The OpenType Layout
    tables are not re-written. But the data for the glyphs IDs that are not part of
    the subset are removed.\"\r\n\r\nIf I'm understanding correctly that it doesn't
    modify those tables at all, then that doesn't seem like an ideal solution - many
    fonts have tens or hundreds of kilobytes of data in their GSUB/GPOS tables, almost
    all of which can be deleted if you're not using all the glyphs, giving a significant
    space saving.\r\n\r\nIt's quite possible to rewrite those tables, and to automatically
    keep just the extra glyphs that result from substitutions of glyphs in the subset
    - the (open source) code behind http://fonts.philip.html5.org/ does that. (It's
    kind of complex, and it's certainly not bug-free, but it's worked in all the fonts
    I've tested so far.)"
  created: '2009-07-20 14:42:05'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Relevant ongoing discussion over here (comments from the pack are esp illuminating):\r\n\r\nhttp://ilovetypography.com/2009/07/20/web-fonts-\u2014-where-are-we/\r\n\r\n.
    . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-07-20 16:37:30'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: "Audio of TypeCon2009 Web Fonts panel discussion now online. Listen, learn,
    and pass it on.\r\n\r\nhttp://typecon.com/talk.php?id=333"
  created: '2009-07-20 23:53:09'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Are you sure? Sounds like jazz to me. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-07-21 11:26:52'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: Listen a little longer :)
  created: '2009-07-21 16:18:43'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '[[http://virb.com/typecon/audio/434710|The full recording]]. There''s a <em>tiny</em>
    little arrow to the right of the progress bar at the link Tamye posted (the jazz
    confused me too).'
  created: '2009-07-21 18:37:27'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: 'Yeah, just to clarify: It''s the raw, unedited audio. The jazz music is just
    the standard entry or "bumper" music that''s played in the room there during breaks.'
  created: '2009-07-21 19:36:48'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: http://new.typographica.org/2009/on-typography/audio-from-the-web-fonts-panel-at-typecon2009/
  created: '2009-07-21 19:57:50'
- author:
    name: outrasfontes
    picture: 112120
  body: I think the jazz was just to provoke the impatient. :) Just kidding.
  created: '2009-07-21 21:49:44'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Ah, I see, it's a variety show \u2014 music to lure you, Kent to soothe you,
    and then raw, naked, thick and thin-wrapped formats, hot & cold running web font
    advocates and web font users, all well moderated. Thanks to SOTA, the sound and
    web engineers, the moderator for not just moderating, translating, and transitioning
    but keeping the speakers near microphones, and to those who asked such good questions.
    It is a really good learning experience for me, and I'm sure it will be for others
    who hear it as well. \r\n\r\nTwo ears Up!\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-07-22 12:01:38'
date: '2009-06-11 05:46:40'
title: New Web Fonts Proposal

---
