---
author:
  name: Si_Daniels
  picture: 110446
body: "Not a Honda rebrand, rather UI fonts for the Palm Pre... \r\n\r\nhttp://www.engadget.com/2009/06/12/font-bureau-takes-credit-for-palms-custom-prelude-fonts-our/"
comments:
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "This story actually links to Typophile, so you can get that here: \r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/58935"
  created: '2009-06-13 01:52:10'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Oops, sorry I didn't check the news page. \r\n\r\nSo why is my TV not working
    today? ;-)"
  created: '2009-06-13 02:08:28'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Right the first comment at http://www.engadget.com/2009/06/12/font-bureau-takes-credit-for-palms-custom-prelude-fonts-our/
    -- <cite>\"the uppercase I and the lowercase l still look the same. Why the hell
    do people do this with sans-serif fonts?\"</cite>\r\n\r\nAmazing how well propaganda
    works. Whom do I need to congratulate?"
  created: '2009-06-13 05:20:23'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Matthew Carter? '
  created: '2009-06-13 05:22:09'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: Ouch.
  created: '2009-06-13 06:07:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Why the hell, as best I know it:\r\n\r\n1. Bell Gothic (Chauncey Griffith)
    is the first typeface to put serifs on sans cap I, 1937, to avoid confusion between
    I and 1/l, in low-quality printing of telephone directories.\r\n\r\n2. DIN signage
    face has lower case \"l\" with tail, 1930s, to avoid confusion between I and l
    when both are rendered by a monowidth device, such as a technical pen or a router.\r\n\r\n2.
    Orator and OCR-B are 1960s sans serif typewriter faces which include I and l with
    serifs, this time to \"fill up\" the empty letterspace in a monowidth system.\r\n\r\n3.
    Meta has \"l\" with tail, 1985 (?), an homage to DIN?\r\n\r\n3. Officina picks
    up the \"office typewriter\" look and repeats the Meta \"l\" tail (same designer,
    Erik Spiekermann), 1990.\r\n\r\n4. Verdana and Trebuchet, 1994, but this time
    the serifs serve to differentiate I and 1/l when all are hinted to the same pixel
    stem width and height, and the visual cue of subtly different stem dimensions
    that exists in print is not operative.\r\n\r\nIn general, these faces were designed
    for \"output devices\" which lacked the precise resolution and sophisticated spacing
    nuances of good quality letterpress and offset printing.\r\n\r\nSo type for a
    hand-held device fits the scenario.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-13 06:46:36'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: ">   \u201Cthe uppercase I and the lowercase l still look the same. \r\n>
    \  Why the hell do people do this with sans-serif fonts?\u201D\r\n\r\ndavid, do
    you have anything to say for yourself?\r\n\r\nbecause this bugs the shit out of
    a lot of people.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-13 09:26:38'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: National has "l" with a tail.
  created: '2009-06-13 13:08:37'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Is Johnston's Underground the first sans with a tailed l?\r\n\r\nI come from
    Illinois, and the abbreviations Il or Ill. are often awkward in sans faces. But
    honestly aside from that, I don't recall ever having a problem when both the I
    and l are straight. Maybe in other languages...  The straight sided also save
    space, and maybe that demand trumped disambiguation here."
  created: '2009-06-13 13:17:08'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Overshooting the cap height with the l ascender can help too. What is the
    fuss about?
  created: '2009-06-13 14:55:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...because this bugs the shit out of a lot of people.</em>\r\n\r\nNot
    me. I admire his reticence.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-13 16:06:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Maybe in other languages...</em>\r\n\r\nTypes have to cater to all kinds
    of documents, and being used where letters and numbers are mixed, eg codes (postal
    and otherwise) is a consideration."
  created: '2009-06-13 16:09:00'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Nice time-line from Nick.  '
  created: '2009-06-13 16:16:41'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite>Nice time-line from Nick.</cite>\r\n\r\nHere's his <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/38217#comment-234304\">illustration
    to it</a>, from the related thread <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/38217\">How
    does the serif on a sans-serif i increase legibility/readability?</a>"
  created: '2009-06-13 16:25:11'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "</em></em><-shutting off nick's excessive emphasis...\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nnick
    said:\r\n>   Not me. I admire his reticence.\r\n\r\nit's not \"his reticence\"
    that bugs people.\r\n\r\nit's the too-highly-similar uppercase-i and lowercase-l.\r\n(and
    no, it doesn't help if they're not _exactly_identical_.)\r\n\r\nso i just wondered
    if david had anything to say about it.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-13 20:40:41'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Thank God someone sometime designed the U to differentiate from the V and
    (maybe the same guy/gal) the J to set that vowel apart from the I.\r\n\r\nIt could
    take a couple of centuries though to get this sans cap i vs lc l issue solved\u2026
    : )\r\nOr David could do it next week.\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-06-13 23:05:04'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "It's really unfortunate that the blogger on Engadget used a pre-release mockup
    of the Pre interface for his post -- which actually does show Avenir, not Prelude!
    (cf. [[http://typophile.com/node/56579|here]])\r\n\r\nI think DB is currently
    traveling, so as semi-official FB apologist, I'll offer some additional information
    in his place. \r\n\r\nDavid actually did design an alternate I and 1 in Prelude.
    They're right there in the fonts:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Prelude-Illinois1_6009.png]\r\n\r\n<em>(Defaults
    above, alternates below.)</em>\r\n\r\nI suppose the final usage may have been
    up to Palm."
  created: '2009-06-14 13:50:30'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Thanks Kent De Apologisto. Also:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.engadget.com/2009/06/12/font-bureau-takes-credit-for-palms-cu...\r\n\r\n>Font
    Bureau takes credit for Palm's custom 'Prelude' fonts; our hearts melt\r\n\r\nI'm
    sorry the writers expressed it this way, or didn't read our release far enough?\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/58935\r\n\r\nAscender
    Corporation was also integrally involved in the project though with was not mentioned
    in our release.\r\n\r\nAs for the details of style:\r\n\r\nThe uppercase I with
    serifs was presented to the client and remains as an alternate. The lowercase
    L with a tail was presented as well, and the client dismissed it for stylistic
    reasons on their own. I did not discourage them as the tailed l.c. single stroke
    and serif u.c. I character designs are nice until they gather in words.\r\n\r\nWhile
    some people may believe firmly enough to <em>only</em> supply tailed and seriffed
    versions of these letters, regardless of the size range of use or distance of
    the user, I remain skeptical of such an extreme view, preferring apparently now
    unconventionally that words are more important to readers than letters at nearly
    any distance and size. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-06-14 15:18:51'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > Ascender Corporation was also integrally involved in the project
    though with was not mentioned in our release.</cite>\r\n\r\nYeah, that would be
    my fault. I tried to make up for it in some small way [[http://typophile.com/node/56579#comment-351320|here]]."
  created: '2009-06-14 16:23:46'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "And all this because I made a comment about a comment ...\r\n\r\n<cite>[...]
    as the tailed l.c. single stroke and serif u.c. I character designs are nice until
    they gather in words.</cite>\r\n\r\nSounds reasonable."
  created: '2009-06-14 21:51:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Theory, based on precedent, could not have accounted for the success of The
    Mix.\r\nAnd by that I mean not just popularity, but successful functioning, i.e.
    readability.\r\n\r\nI think there's a lot more design space available for the
    judicious positioning of serifs, in both some-serif, semi-serif, and serifed types.
    Try it, and see what works.\r\n\r\nAnother thing you can do is loopy \"g\"s!"
  created: '2009-06-15 00:39:56'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "david-\r\n\r\nyou're the expert.\r\n\r\nnonetheless, i dissent.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-15 09:26:59'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "William: But honestly aside from that, I don\u2019t recall ever having a
    problem when both the I and l are straight.\r\n\r\nFontlab glyph names? Is that
    Iacute or lacute? In a sans font with a sans ui, I've grabbed the wrong glyph
    before."
  created: '2009-06-15 10:08:11'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Fontlab glyph names?\r\n\r\nYes that's another case. Basically, when the
    letters have context there's generally no problem. Without context there is a
    problem. "
  created: '2009-06-15 12:48:55'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "bowerbird: dissent is great, parameterized dissent is best.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-06-15 12:52:02'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I think with the increased use of randomized-character passwords ambiguity
    has become more of a problem. (On the software registration window do I enter
    "plK0jl7IQ33" or "plKOj17lQ33")
  created: '2009-06-15 13:42:46'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "Quite. I must say that whenever I have to email corrections to our typesetters,
    the moment any of the changes involves l/I/1, I select the entire email and change
    it to Georgia.\r\n\r\n(If anyone knows how to make Outlook 2003 do rich-text emails
    in Georgia by default instead of Arial I'd be grateful to learn it!)\r\n________________________________________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2009-06-15 13:56:11'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">If anyone knows how to make Outlook 2003 do rich-text emails in Georgia
    by default instead of Arial I\u2019d be grateful to learn it!\r\n\r\nMaybe.. tools
    \ / options / mail format / fonts "
  created: '2009-06-15 14:43:45'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: Duh. Thanks for that si; should've worked <em>that</em> out for myself. Sorry
    for drifting off-topic there folks
  created: '2009-06-15 14:54:53'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Stands for drifting topic widget? ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-06-15 18:43:06'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: ">   bowerbird: dissent is great, parameterized dissent is best.\r\n\r\nwell
    david, i thought the parameter was clear here:\r\nwhen two letters look highly
    similar, it's confusing.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-15 19:33:58'
- author:
    name: Dan B.
    picture: 114033
  body: "Probably not relevant to regular usage, but I'll submit an example in Romanian
    when I and l (similarly designed) create problems in reading religious texts.
    It's customary, globally I believe, to capitalize all pronouns that refer to God
    in such documents. This can confuse the reader in that he/she cannot easily distinguish
    between I (a pronoun referring to God in this case) and l (a pronoun referring
    to a human).\r\n\r\nMy sample uses Myriad. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/eg_3512.jpg]\r\n\r\nEDIT:
    Then again, I have to admit I dislike Verdana's I..."
  created: '2009-06-15 19:54:22'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">when two letters look highly similar, it\u2019s confusing.\r\n\r\nYes, I
    am aware of that effect. Yet... 90% of all sans share a lack of the features of
    which we speak, and... they've lasted in the market for sometimes a century. Is
    something else happening too?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-06-16 11:58:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>...they\u2019ve lasted in the market for sometimes a century. Is something
    else happening too</em>\r\n\r\nA few new things are happening. One is contracted
    text messaging, in which letters and also numerals are being used in novel ways,
    such that individual letter differentiation becomes more critical than in word
    recognition supported by familiarity and context. Another is the proliferation
    on non-linguistic informational text such as URLs, file names, etc. -- including
    critical information such as indicators on flight control monitors -- , requiring
    quick identification of individual letters rather than normal reading.\r\n\r\nI
    don't think there is an a priori problem with styles of lettering that make less
    differentiation between forms than other styles of lettering. Just choose the
    style that is appropriate to the functional requirements of the typography."
  created: '2009-06-16 12:31:19'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "david said:\r\n>   Is something else happening too?\r\n\r\nyes.  the people
    who design and run things are out-of-touch,\r\nand fail to listen when the dissent
    bubbles up from the trenches,\r\nso we groundlings must muddle through the mess
    they've made,\r\nand make to this very day because \"we've always done it that
    way\".\r\n\r\nfor instance, here's what ed colligan, the head of palm, said in
    2006,\r\nwhen he was asked to comment on the upcoming debut of the iphone:\r\n>
    \  \u201CWe\u2019ve learned and struggled for a few years here figuring out \r\n>
    \  how to make a decent phone. PC guys are not going to just \r\n>   figure this
    out. They\u2019re not going to just walk in.\u201D\r\n\r\nthat seems unbelieveably
    pigheaded and naive in retrospect, not?\r\n\r\noh well, at least unlike the financial
    shitheads, you font-makers\r\nare not extracting massive tons of money out of
    the economy, or\r\n-- once your house of cards has fallen apart -- insisting that
    you\r\nneed to continue receiving your obscenely-huge year-end bonuses.\r\n\r\nso,
    as \"experts\" go, you're relatively benign...        ;+)\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\np.s.
    \ of course, when global-warming chickens come home to roost,\r\nthat's gonna
    make the recent financial collapse look like peanuts...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-16 19:59:49'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Smartphone usage is generally one of rushed reading (boss\u2019s top-posted
    E-mail), rarely longer reading (E-book), very often precise text duplication (passwords,
    a living hell on my iTouch).\r\n\r\nHence an intelligent system might use straight
    or tailled els in different circumstances, or at different point sizes.\r\n\r\nEventually
    somebody is going to mention that, like Segoe by Microsoft, Prelude is merely
    a clone of Avenir. I mean \u201Cmention\u201D as in \u201Clevel an accusation.\u201D\r\n\r\n\u2014
    \ \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-06-16 22:48:09'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I was prepared to turn this job down when the VP of engineering sent me an
    email. He responded that this was not going to be like Windows or the Mac. I was
    skeptical, so I ticked off a list of capabilities that I felt were required in
    any model modern device, desktops included, to make me (users) happy. (I ticked
    off exactly the same list here sometime ago to dead silence). This client though,
    he said \"We can do that... all of it!\" The Pre is typographically for real:
    it uses TT, it scales according to code, it's got a sweet rendering, OT is supported
    and feature acceptance expanding, 180 dpi!, integer metrics, font fidelity and
    open. \r\n\r\nI hear what's being asked of the some-serif, and will endeavor to
    please, thank you. \r\n\r\nRead on! Hug a Tree!\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-17 13:03:26'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "@Joe: Today\u2019s iPhone OS 3.0 software release solves at least one of
    your beefs: copy/(cut)/paste has been implemented at last.\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert
    Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-06-17 13:19:44'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">He responded that this was not going to be like Windows or the Mac.\r\n\r\nThat's
    exactly what struck me when I first saw the interface (before knowing David and
    Tom were involved) when looking at videos and static shots like <A HREF=\"http://www.engadget.com/photos/palm-pre-screenshots/\">these</A>
    was that with good interface design, and a high-res display, the need for font
    tricks like cap I, and ClearType is diminished. Not sure the Pre is there yet,
    but seems to be headed in the right direction. \r\n\r\nPS. What surprised me was
    lack of sub-pixel positioning in the browser. But that could be a webkit / perf
    trade-off. \r\n"
  created: '2009-06-17 14:44:32'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>OT is supported and feature acceptance expanding</cite>\r\n\r\nCould
    you say more about this? (Or perhaps a link to further information?)"
  created: '2009-06-17 15:21:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Eventually somebody is going to mention that, like Segoe by Microsoft,
    Prelude is merely a clone of Avenir.</em>\r\n\r\nAnd then someone else will mention
    that Avenir is merely a clone of Nobel."
  created: '2009-06-17 16:56:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "David, thanks for trailblazing the market (again). \r\nHow long before Pre
    users can install any font they want?"
  created: '2009-06-17 17:20:16'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "But Nobel wasn\u2019t what they were cloning. When your daughter dresses
    up like Jessica Simpson, she isn\u2019t cloning Eve.\r\n\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-06-17 23:10:10'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'That Starling looks awful familiar, but I can''t quite place it. Give me
    enough times and I''m sure it will come to me. ;-)   '
  created: '2009-06-17 23:16:30'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Actually the Starling 'ultra', now the featured face, has old style stress,
    like the regular, whereas Times Bold has 'modern' vertical stress. Of course Mike
    Parker says its the original, and Times the copy.  I wonder what all the differences
    are...
  created: '2009-06-18 01:12:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...like Segoe by Microsoft, Prelude is merely a clone of Avenir.</em>\r\n\r\nLet's
    see if Adrian Frutiger returns his SOTA award."
  created: '2009-06-18 05:04:43'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: If he does then David can send him his.
  created: '2009-06-18 06:42:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Segoe was found to be too much like Frutiger--not like Avenir--by the EU.
    \r\n\r\nDo Avenir and Frutiger look alike to you, Joe? :)  "
  created: '2009-06-18 14:53:24'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Do Avenir and Frutiger look alike to you, Joe? :)\r\n\r\nI've seen the secret
    Linotype roadmap - next year they ship Frutenir - then year after next it's Frutenir
    Next. "
  created: '2009-06-18 16:03:59'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I\u2019ve seen the secret Linotype roadmap - next year they ship Frutenir
    - then year after next it\u2019s Frutenir Next.\r\n\r\nIs that an announcement?
    Will Microsoft ship it with their device, the Erp Mlap this year?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-06-18 18:03:59'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Correction noted, W.B.\r\n\r\nIs it not odd, though, how many brand-spanking-new
    screenfonts are frutigerist copies?\r\n\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-06-18 19:41:41'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Also, challenge to David \u201CFools!\u201D\_Berlow: Put up or shut up with
    your claim that you \u201Cticked off exactly the same list [of requirements] here
    sometime ago to dead silence.\u201D I\u2019m sure a craftsman of your calibre
    can figure out how to include an URL.\r\n\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-06-18 19:43:00'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Is it not odd...\r\n\r\nMy predicted fondness for the Geometric Sans in
    this area is not odd at all. \r\n\r\n>I\u2019m sure a craftsman of your calibre
    can figure out how to include an URL.\r\n\r\nWe are working on that for all users,
    and will let no lazy researchers stand in our way. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-19 12:49:17'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "\u201CResearcher\u201D is an ironic choice of words here, as there is no
    viable search engine for this site   and the reuse of the same terms in different
    contexts makes search results hard to sift through anyway.\r\n\r\nSo I guess David
    \u201CFools!\u201D Berlow did <em>not</em> issue a list of prerequisites \u2013
    to resounding silence. Are they Berlow\u2019s WMDs? Wherever could they be?\r\n\r\n\u2014
    \ \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-06-20 18:39:51'
date: '2009-06-13 01:35:16'
title: Berlow's Prelude font

---
