---
author:
  name: ebensorkin
  picture: 109987
body: "TypeCon Registration is working\r\n\r\nAnd I am curious - who is going? \r\n\r\nI
  am."
comments:
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: And incidentally who will be going to ATypi in Mexico? I've kinda decided
    on ATypi, but hey, one never knows.
  created: '2009-06-19 01:51:06'
- author:
    name: Chiba Chiba
    picture: 112595
  body: I'll be in Atlanta :)
  created: '2009-06-19 02:06:13'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Amazing, one month before the conference starts, and the registration is
    only now working.\r\n\r\nHave they even bothered to let you know who is speaking?\r\n\r\nAn
    interesting title for a conference when you really think about it. Type Con?"
  created: '2009-06-19 02:30:05'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "I was hoping to give the Ludlow workshop again this year in Atlanta, but
    no machine was available. & since all of a sudden I have family travel to deal
    with in the days before TypeCon, I'll not be there at all.\r\n\r\nI sure want
    to go to Mexico City for ATypI; planning on it; hoping for it.\r\n\r\npowers\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-19 02:42:25'
- author:
    name: someonesplendid
  body: 'well be in atlanta, serving in our role as the australian contingent! '
  created: '2009-06-19 04:57:28'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Aye. You will find me at my regular post on the AV platform.
  created: '2009-06-19 07:25:33'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Huzzah!
  created: '2009-06-19 11:34:17'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Info is going up on the website daily, almost hourly, so keep checking for
    updates. Tamye, Shu, Brian, and team are working furiously to get all the info
    posted. \r\n\r\nWe're well aware that registration has launched unbelievably late
    (even by TypeCon standards); but there were some very frustrating and extenuating
    circumstances beyond our control.\r\n\r\nI'll be in Atlanta, of course. Looking
    forward to seeing everyone there.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-19 13:46:52'
- author:
    name: Ivo
    picture: 128123
  body: "I\u2019ll be in Atlanta. Does it make sense to come already on Tuesday?"
  created: '2009-06-19 15:36:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Wonder why the program or at least a speaker list never made it to public
    view? Even if technical problems exist, a simple post to Typophile with an overview
    of the program is low tech enough to work?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-06-19 15:45:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: I'll be there. I'll be on a panel with Peter Enneson, Denis Pelli, and Kevin
    Larson on "How we read words".
  created: '2009-06-19 16:53:11'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Program information is going up as we speak. Speakers, too.\r\n\r\nTuesday
    evening there will be an unofficial pre-conference kickoff at Creative Circus,
    including an open house, some nibbles, and a presentation on drawing scripts and
    flourishes that everyone can get involved in. Bring your sketchbook.\r\n\r\nPaul
    Shaw has indicated that he may do a typographic walking tour in Atlanta (free).
    We're thinking it might be Wednesday morning. But he's not arriving until Tuesday,
    and we probably won't have a commitment before boots-on-the-ground. So this will
    be ad hoc.\r\n\r\nPre-conference workshops start on Wednesday (all this info is
    up). \r\n\r\nOn Tuesday and Wednesday, all us volunteers will be busily landing
    and putting things together. If you're around and want to pitch in, come find
    me or Michelle Hill, introduce yourself, and we'll see what we can do to plug
    you in.\r\n\r\nOfficial conference registration won't start until sometime on
    Wednesday.\r\n\r\nHope this is helpful."
  created: '2009-06-19 17:55:41'
- author:
    name: MichellePerham
  body: "Wednesday evening there will be a screening of the new film \"Typeface\":\r\n[[http://typeface.kartemquin.com/]]\r\n\r\nThursday
    evening the keynote speaker will be Jim Sherraden from Hatch Show Print. \r\n\r\nBoth
    should be quite excellent! Hope to see you there!!"
  created: '2009-06-19 18:29:02'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: Sadly, I will not be going to TypeCon this year, a first after 5 years of
    attendance. I'm much more interested in Mexico City, so I'm planning for that
    instead.
  created: '2009-06-19 18:47:47'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Zara,\r\n\r\nWhen you are in Mexico City try not to let the armed guards
    in front of every cash machine put you off. \r\n\r\nThey are there for you're
    protection. Sort of!"
  created: '2009-06-19 19:53:44'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "James, I could be wrong but I detect a kind of siege mentality in your posts,
    don't we need to get beyond the culture of fear? Isn\u2019t that more associated
    with the old regime?   "
  created: '2009-06-19 20:05:40'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Sii,\r\n\r\nWe have plenty of water and wine here at terminaldesign. The
    crops are in and the livestock is well tended to.\r\n\r\nPlenty of cheap olive
    oil on the boil up on the roof too. No worries."
  created: '2009-06-19 21:14:18'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Sounds like you\u2019ll be well-stocked when the hipster\u2019s parents finally
    cut them off and they start tearing Brooklyn apart in search of cocaine and tight
    jeans."
  created: '2009-06-19 21:23:48'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: James - If you have no worries why such a party pooper?
  created: '2009-06-20 00:25:09'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: I'm just stating a fact about Mexico City. I've been there many times and
    it is a beautiful and also a difficult city in the best of times. Unfortunately
    these are not the best of times for Mexico. I have friends who live there and
    they tell me it is getting more and more difficult. That is all. The first time
    I went there and saw armed guards in front of almost everything of value I was
    a bit taken aback. I'm just sharing.
  created: '2009-06-20 01:03:10'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: I've been warned about Mexico, too. And I've seen private security guards
    in residential buildings in Brazil as well. These things happen a lot in Latin
    America; no use denying it.
  created: '2009-06-20 02:26:43'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: "Swerving precariously back onto topic \u2026\r\n\r\nI\u2019ll be in Atlanta
    as well \u2014 my seventh consecutive TypeCon. Whoa.\r\n\r\nWhere has the time
    gone?"
  created: '2009-06-20 03:51:01'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: Lead biscuits in Atlanta. Armed guards in Mexico City. How will Typo Berlin
    top this?
  created: '2009-06-20 04:24:34'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: '@Grant  - has it really been 7 for you already? That means it''s been 9 for
    me. Wow. Where have the aughts gone?'
  created: '2009-06-20 04:25:39'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "As a Mexico City resident, I can tell you that the congress will take place
    in one of the safest zones in town. Yes, we have security problems, but I don\u2019t
    think they are as big as the media tell.\r\n\r\nWill Powers can tell us how he
    feels in Mexico City, but from my perspective is like visiting New York: tourists
    must be careful, keep away from potentially dangerous zones, etc. But it\u2019s
    not that hard, and both cities are plenty of marvelous things to see and to do.\r\n\r\nI\u2019ll
    be very glad to see you in October."
  created: '2009-06-20 05:15:11'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: James & co. sorry for side-tracking the thread. I read too much into the comment.
    Sad I won't be at TC this year - the first one I'll have missed since Rochester.
    :-(
  created: '2009-06-20 05:56:20'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: "@ sii - you will be sorely missed in ATL. But it's for a worthy cause (no
    one needs an angry sister/bride!)\r\n\r\n@ Cristobal - I've loved every part of
    Mexico I've ever been to. I've seen danger in lots of countries, including the
    US, and it's life in the city. Looking forward to seeing you in the fall."
  created: '2009-06-20 07:10:41'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "By the way, I didn't mean to rain on anybody's parade. Cristobal and Tamye,
    you are right\u2014a tourist has to be careful when traveling, no matter where
    s/he goes, but this shouldn't keep anybody from traveling and enjoying themselves.\r\n\r\nOh,
    and in response to the original question: sadly, I will not be going to Atlanta
    (or Mexico) this year."
  created: '2009-06-20 18:14:24'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: "<strong>@tamye</strong> \u2014 Yes, it\u2019ll be number seven. Minneapolis
    seems a long time ago \u2026\r\n\r\n<strong>@si</strong> \u2014 I think we shared
    a cab back to the airport in Minneapolis back in 2003 (if my memory hasn\u2019t
    completely muddled the events all together). Sorry to hear that you won\u2019t
    be able to make it this year.\r\n\r\n<strong>@zara</strong> \u2014 Likewise.\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-20 19:39:33'
- author:
    name: amyp
    picture: 109556
  body: "Sadly, I'll be missing TypeCon this year, the first after 5 years of perfect
    attendance. Happily, I'm expecting a baby in September so I think I've got a pretty
    good excuse. Hope you all enjoy some typographic debauchery without me!\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-20 22:13:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Yasou, Amy! May you both be healthy and happy!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-06-21 00:04:41'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'Amy: What Chris said! Make it a double!'
  created: '2009-06-21 01:41:35'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>but from my perspective is like visiting New York: tourists must be
    careful, keep away from potentially dangerous zones, etc. </cite>\r\n\r\nI'm sorry
    to be such a party pooper, but your comparison between the two cities is anything
    but true.  One does not risk being kidnapped when stepping into a taxi in NYC."
  created: '2009-06-21 02:58:10'
- author:
    name: David Sudweeks
    picture: 112594
  body: I'm in. See ya'll there.
  created: '2009-06-21 03:05:28'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "> One does not risk being kidnapped when stepping into a taxi in NYC.\r\n\r\nI
    don\u2019t like to continue talking about Mexico security in a TypeCon thread,
    but\u2026\r\n\r\nI insist: I\u2019m not saying we don\u2019t have security problems,
    and to be honest the problem you are talking about is real, but again: I\u2019ve
    never been kidnapped in a taxi after 30 years of taking them (and I hope this
    good luck will continue in the future).\r\n\r\nIf you\u2019re interested, I can
    provide you with some telephone numbers to get a safe taxi service. If you are
    kidnapped in a taxi in Mexico City after this, I pay the rescue. ;)"
  created: '2009-06-21 03:37:56'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I'll be there again this year--number seven for me, too.
  created: '2009-06-21 04:58:39'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I look forward to returning to Mexico City, but I will never attend an ATypI
    conference again, so I will have to wait for another opportunity.\r\n\r\nCrisobal,
    thanks for the offer, but I have my own taxi sources."
  created: '2009-06-21 13:27:22'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "@ Cristobal and James: There are in many peoples' minds strong worries about
    visiting Mexico City. Many of these worries have some validity, and are hard to
    dislodge. But I think James over-states the case a bit. To attend ATypI in the
    historic center of Mexico City, and to be in the streets in groups, and to pay
    attention to your surroundings will keep almost all risk at bay.\r\n\r\nI'm not
    well-traveled, so I cannot offer any comparisons with other big cities. Outside
    the USA the only big cities I've been to are Halifax [not all that big], Montreal,
    Vancouver, and Mexico City. I do not like cities, but in Mexico City I feel relaxed
    and calm; and safe. My wife and I walk all over the city or take the metro and
    busses. Very late at night we have friends or a maitre d' call us a safe cab.\r\n\r\nI've
    never met Cristobal, but after a side comment I made in a thread somewhere a while
    ago about a long walk we took across Mexico City on a Sunday morning, he must
    think my wife & I are gringos locos. In October I'll tell him about our late-night
    walk from Tlalpan to our hotel on Periferco Sur. Then he'll know I'm loco.\r\n\r\nHell,
    James: I even worry about being in Minneapolis at times. You survived that trip.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2009-06-22 18:57:20'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "There are armed guards at plenty of ATM machines in my neighborhood, which
    is nothing in comparison to the Norte\xF1os and Sure\xF1os gangs which are on
    my front steps every day. :)\r\n\r\n*If* I go to ATypI, it is only because I want
    to experience Mexico City, and it certainly doesn't scare me one bit."
  created: '2009-06-22 19:12:33'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: This thread really makes me appreciate Manhattan!
  created: '2009-06-22 19:47:30'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I'll be at Typecon.
  created: '2009-06-23 12:51:36'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "I'll be there, pitching in as a volunteer officially this time, for my 4th
    TypeCon. Can't wait to see everyone again. I'll be there from Tuesday to Sunday
    this time.\r\n\r\nI'll be bringing some fantastic bourbon to share this year.
    It was that or some letterpressed posters and I didn't have the time or funds
    for the posters this year."
  created: '2009-06-23 16:29:08'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: This is sounding better & better!
  created: '2009-06-23 18:04:11'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>This thread really makes me appreciate Manhattan!</em>\r\n\r\nWell, New
    York is still New York... There are bad neighborhoods here, too, y'know!"
  created: '2009-06-23 22:50:42'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: OK, since we're talking about 'hoods. Where are the stay-away places in ATL
    and surrounds? (aka places good type people know they should stay away from, but
    can't, because Paul Shaw leads them there?).
  created: '2009-06-24 23:07:56'
- author:
    name: Antonio Cavedoni
    picture: 110947
  body: "I just booked my flight and ticket for TypeCon: I\u2019ll be there from friday
    to monday. By the way, because my flight is around 7:30 pm on monday, is there
    anyone else staying around? What can type geeks do in a city like Atlanta on a
    monday morning?"
  created: '2009-06-28 06:14:30'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Heh, heh: Antonio, you can always come help us clear, sort, and pack things
    up on Monday morning ;-) \r\n\r\n(Mostly kidding. But it is just us volunteers,
    and you'd be quite welcome.)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-28 13:41:54'
- author:
    name: Antonio Cavedoni
    picture: 110947
  body: Sure, I can help!
  created: '2009-06-28 17:19:20'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: Great! Come find me some time on that Sunday afternoon or evening. By then,
    I'll know the when & where for the next morning.
  created: '2009-06-28 17:58:43'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: Hey, there are some oddly shaped tweets coming to and from http://twitter.com/typecon.
    There might be some sort of prize for the tweeter that can tie the most obscure/bizarre
    subject to TypeCon. Let's see what you've got.
  created: '2009-06-30 07:10:37'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "I'm going, to cover the convention for my blog and find out what the typography
    industry and those who work in it are all about.\r\nAlso taking some classes with
    the idea of making a complete fool of myself.\r\nAnd, of course, as a web developer
    I'm particularly interested in the symposium about web-fonts scheduled for Sunday.\r\nEben,
    ChrisL - I know you only casually through FB, but be nice to me and introduce
    me to all your colleagues. My wife's coming along, too. (Anywhere with an Internet
    connection, room service, and movies on demand, is fine with her.)\r\nI've been
    in Atlanta many times. Looking forward to it!\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://readableweb.com\">Richard
    Fink</a>"
  created: '2009-06-30 14:34:32'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>...and find out what the typography industry and those who work in
    it are all about.</cite>\r\n\r\nI wouldn't go so far as saying TypeCon represents
    the typography industry. Except for a few major players usually in attendance,
    I think it would be more accurate to say that TypeCon represents the hobby arm
    of the typographic world. My last attendance in Boston bore this out. 4 hours
    of Dwiggins, and 20 minutes on Font Licenses.\r\n\r\nSorry."
  created: '2009-06-30 14:43:37'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@terminaldesign\r\nThis thought did occur to me. Simply because of the expense.\r\nBut
    it's a place to start, eh?\r\n\r\ncheers,\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2009-06-30 15:05:43'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "James, you have a point, but \"hobby arm\" is not a correct characterization.
    My impression is that the vast majority of those attending are either professionally
    involved with type, or are students planning to be. Most, it is true, are graphic
    designers, with an interest in type, maybe having drawn some type themselves,
    but not full time type designers. That reflects the name of the society: \"Society
    of Typographic Aficionados\". \r\n\r\nHowever, full time type designers are there
    in significant numbers, and a good chunk of talks are by and of interest to type
    designers. For example, I am looking forward to the Gerard Unger & Friends panel,
    and to Gerry Leonides on \"What I have learned about Type\", as well as the panel
    on fonts for the Web, which seems to be the current hot issue for the type design
    industry. \r\n\r\nSo while it's true that TypeCon doesn't have the technical and
    business issues of professional type designers as its primary and exclusive focus,
    it does include those issues, and it brings type designers together with their
    customers. And that is a service to type designers as well as graphic designers.
    \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2009-06-30 15:53:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "@Richard,\r\n\r\nBe happy to introduce you to anyone I know. Also, you will
    find that everyone there is very approachable and happy to talk to you. I am sure
    your wife will find friendly people to talk to--even about other things than type!
    :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-06-30 17:44:04'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: 'I''ll be at Typecon this year, and I cannot wait for it to begin. I have
    only been once before, but my impression has been that it is industry enough.
    Sure, there are conferences that are more industry, insider, and specific. But
    Typecon is well-organized, interesting, and quite enjoyable. But if you are interested
    in the specifics of the type business or finding font work, the best discussions
    at Typecon--just like any other conference--are most likely to occur offline,
    not onstage in the main hall. '
  created: '2009-06-30 18:13:40'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>So while it\u2019s true that TypeCon doesn\u2019t have the technical
    and business issues of professional type designers as its primary and exclusive
    focus, it does include those issues, and it brings type designers together with
    their customers. And that is a service to type designers as well as graphic designers.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    couldn't disagree more Bill. I doubt there is much real business getting conducted
    between type designers and all those type design customers you seem to think are
    there. Like you said there are a lot of type designers in attendance. Type designers
    are not other type designers customers. \r\n\r\nIt is a social occasion, not much
    more. And there is nothing wrong with that. But is very little to do with type
    designers getting in touch with their customers.\r\n\r\n@Dan:\r\nWell organized?"
  created: '2009-06-30 18:50:52'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Sure, I've been involved with conferences that might have been better organized.
    But I can think of many more events that are quite poorly organized. And Typecon
    is not one of these. Typecon is in a different location each year, which can't
    be easy. The SoTA organizers pull Typecon off again and again with heart and drive.
    That counts for something! I guess you disagree?
  created: '2009-06-30 18:59:16'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "> I doubt there is much real business getting conducted between type designers\r\n\r\nWow.
    I assure you such business does occur. Perhaps whether one is involved in those
    discussions or not has something to do with one's attitude.\r\n\r\nReally, James.
    Did representatives from SOTA and ATypI each visit your home and urinate directly
    in your breakfast cereal? Your distorted view of reality is surprising, not to
    mention a bit offensive to the hundreds of speakers and volunteers who bust their
    asses each year.\r\n\r\nI was going to list all the TypeCon sessions from the
    past 3 years that relate directly to type designers and their industry but then
    I realized you'd be the only one who needed convincing. For those who are truly
    interested, the record is there: [[TypeCon]]."
  created: '2009-06-30 19:32:46'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I was one of those speaker, and one of those sponsors. And come to think
    of it my breakfast cereal has tasted funny these last few years.\r\n "
  created: '2009-06-30 19:46:34'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Case closed!
  created: '2009-06-30 19:50:19'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: '?'
  created: '2009-06-30 20:05:16'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: We miss you, James. Come back soon :)
  created: '2009-06-30 20:34:13'
- author:
    name: Ale Paul
    picture: 110500
  body: "Not TypeCon to me this year after 2 very cool ones.\r\n I will attend ATypI
    Mexico. I have been there like 5 times in the last 2 years and you will not be
    dissapointed with the city and the people. I m pretty sure we will move around
    safe places."
  created: '2009-06-30 21:10:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am pretty sure Ale will move around safe places with sushi!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-06-30 21:41:23'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: I have seen photographic evidence of Ale and cohorts consuming dangerously
    expensive quantities of sushi!
  created: '2009-07-01 07:05:14'
- author:
    name: Ale Paul
    picture: 110500
  body: Not sure about sushi in Atlanta and not sure about sushi in Mexico.... anyway
    I m not alone on that! lol
  created: '2009-07-01 14:03:09'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@dezcom\r\nThanks for the welcome. Looking forward to it.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2009-07-02 00:51:34'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Rich -- I, too, am glad to hear you're coming. \r\n\r\nTypeCon is only one
    slice of the type universe -- part industry, part hobbyist. I tend to think of
    it as akin to a flesh-and-blood* Typophile for a few days a year. \r\n\r\n* (What's
    the appropriate antonym to 'virtual' in this context? 'Real' doesn't quite seem
    to work.)\r\n\r\nPlease make a point of introducing yourself to me. I'll be happy
    to make further introductions. \r\n\r\nIt won't be hard to find me, since I'm
    very visible in my official role(s). But I tend to get a little caught up in the
    work and don't always register meeting people from Typophile, so you may have
    to penetrate through my busy-ness to make the connection. I'll thank you for it.\r\n\r\nThat
    goes for any fellow Typophiles who are coming. If I seem pre-occupied or brusque
    at all, don't be put off. Please don't be shy. Come up and say something.\r\n\r\n--
    Kent.\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-02 14:41:56'
- author:
    name: bobcolby
  body: "SoTA founder Bob Colby here. Sadly, this will be the third Typecon I've missed
    in a row. After last year (unavoidable time conflict), I was determined to get
    down to Atlanta, but my finances have since deteriorated to the point where it
    may be several years before I travel further than NYC (and strictly a daytrip
    at that).\r\n\r\nThen again, if I had to pick a final Typecon to attend, it could
    not have been a better one than Boston in '06, where the organizers were so wonderful
    to me. I'll never forget it. Good luck to all, and continued success to SoTA.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-04 23:17:43'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I'm 99% sure that I won't be at TypeCon this year, a decision I made before
    the speaker and content information was available and which I am now regretting
    for a number of reasons.\r\n\r\nIn regard to what James has written, in some respects
    I agree with him, particularly with regard to the amount of serious business that
    takes place at TypeCon, but this was a criticism I long made of ATypI, which used
    to purport to be a professional association. TypeCon, at least, has no such pretensions.
    But I disagree with James that the lack of business reduces the event to a solely
    or primarily social function. I consider a conference good if I learn some things
    and have some good conversations about type: the educational component is what
    I value. As the years go by, the opportunities to learn something new diminish,
    although the quality of those opportunities, when they do occur, tends to be high.
    Even when I don't find much to interest me personally, it would be churlish to
    criticise an event if it offers opportunities to those younger and less experienced.\r\n\r\nI
    have attended three TypeCon conferences: Minneapolis, Seattle and Buffalo. I had
    fun in Minneapolis but didn't learn much of anything and wasn't very impressed
    by what was on offer in general. It was pretty lame, which is why I didn't bother
    with the next couple of years. Seattle and Buffalo were both very good conferences
    though, among the best type conferences I have attended in the past fifteen years.
    I learned lots and had some good conversations."
  created: '2009-07-05 02:18:50'
- author:
    name: Antonio Cavedoni
    picture: 110947
  body: "John, how about that 1% of odds? Come on over, it\u2019s going to be fun!"
  created: '2009-07-05 02:24:44'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I am looking forward to seeing all the type people again despite being with
    type and type people intensively at Reading MATD for the last 9 months! I'll be
    the guy with the big lens clicking away all day, every day. Feel free to come
    say hello to me as well. \r\n\r\nEmma Williams ( a Reading MATD grad BTW ) is
    partnering with me to photograph TypeCon this year."
  created: '2009-07-05 02:50:52'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: Paul Shaw is going to do one of his famous lettering walks in Atlanta. It
    will be hot, sticky, and a real adventure. Who wants to tag along?
  created: '2009-07-06 20:30:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I can't deal with hot and sticky anymore. I will stick with the AC portion
    of the alphabet\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-07-06 21:14:04'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "A Shaw Walk!? If I'm not in a meeting discussing \"real business\", I\u2019m
    there. Do we have a date and time?"
  created: '2009-07-07 00:19:13'
- author:
    name: Antonio Cavedoni
    picture: 110947
  body: "Lettering walk? Yes please! (But I\u2019m only there from friday onwards)."
  created: '2009-07-07 00:36:25'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: "Paul's getting in early, but there is a heck of a lot of ATL to explore.
    Oakland Cemetery even has a typographer's section... eerie... but you know you
    have to see it. I imagine he'll do his own scouting earlier in the week, but maybe
    he can be persuaded to journey out more than once. It's been known to happen.\r\n\r\nChris,
    we'll find some volunteers with big palm fronds to fan you."
  created: '2009-07-07 03:45:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-07-07 04:05:58'
- author:
    name: Chiba Chiba
    picture: 112595
  body: I'd love to be part of one of those walks! I'll be there monday.
  created: '2009-07-07 04:35:22'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Never underestimate a 1% chance.\r\n\r\nI will be at TypeCon. Just finished
    book hotel and flight. As a bonus, I get to change planes in Phoenix Arizona,
    where I have never been. Woohoo."
  created: '2009-07-07 04:52:17'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Great you''re coming John! '
  created: '2009-07-07 05:00:53'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I second Bill! \r\n\r\nA walk sounds great to me as well! "
  created: '2009-07-07 10:59:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"By the time you get to Phoenix...\"\r\n\r\nSee you in Atlanta, John!\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-07-07 15:32:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: What? What happens by the time I get to Phoenix? Now you've got me worried.
    :0
  created: '2009-07-07 17:02:17'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mUg5p3BncuQ|Great old song.]]'
  created: '2009-07-07 17:46:39'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: 'John, I''m really glad that you''ll be making it. Type conferences aren''t
    the same without you there. '
  created: '2009-07-07 18:04:02'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>A Shaw Walk!? If I\u2019m not in a meeting discussing \u201Creal business\u201D,
    I\u2019m there. Do we have a date and time?</cite>\r\n\r\nOr if you're sleeping
    late because of a card game that went too long.\r\n\r\nMake sure you make Paul
    buy the first round. On second thought, you should make sure Paul buys all the
    rounds.\r\n\r\nI'm glad I'll be missing this!"
  created: '2009-07-07 18:08:31'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: I love you, James.
  created: '2009-07-07 18:32:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Bill got it right--it is the old Glen Campbell romantic ballad.\r\nNothing
    will happen to you there, John, other than finding yourself to be one of the youngest
    people in the city :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-07-07 20:01:34'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "http://chowhound.chow.com/topics/504611\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-08 16:55:12'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Once upon a time the idea of putting Typophile icons on TypeCon nametags was
    floated - did anything ever come of that?
  created: '2009-07-08 19:18:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Maybe we could all just print out our own and affix it to the name badge
    if it has not been worked out?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Grant Hutchinson
      picture: 128153
    body: "I had avatar stickers made through <a href=\"http://uk.moo.com/en/products/stickers.php\">moo.com</a>
      a while ago and have been affixing them to conference batches ever since.\r\n\r\nhttp://flic.kr/splorp/2177160414/\r\n\r\nThey
      can even be used (in a MacGyver-like fashion) to attach neutral density filters
      to Polaroid film packs in a pinch.\r\n\r\nhttp://jasonsantamaria.com/dailyphoto/splorp-saves/"
    created: '2009-07-09 16:22:03'
  created: '2009-07-08 19:33:23'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Didn't come to anything this year. Too many other priorities. \r\n\r\nI still
    think it's a great idea. Feel free to print your own.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-09 00:42:02'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: "John Downer just sent a pic of one of his stunning hand lettered Type Critique
    showcards for Atlanta. Hopefully, no one will steal this one... \r\n\r\nhttp://www.typecon.com/talk.php?id=317\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-09 04:42:12'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: '@ Kent @ Chris - so I guess we need to get gluestick or something similar
    for adhesive at reg?'
  created: '2009-07-09 04:43:07'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: 'Tamye -- Good idea: gluestick for reg desk. Super glue (or padlock) for the
    Type Crit sign ;-)'
  created: '2009-07-09 14:17:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Padlock\"\r\n\r\nLOL!!!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-07-09 14:35:56'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "You could always just take the sign down at night\u2026"
  created: '2009-07-09 15:00:23'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: '... or use Comic Sans.'
  created: '2009-07-09 15:02:12'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: James -- We do. Or we try to. The one time it got forgotten until late, it
    walked away. Very disheartening.
  created: '2009-07-09 16:50:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I'm afraid I won't be going to TypeCon this year--the first miss since I
    started in Rochester, 2001.\r\nHowever, the timing is bad, as I'm in the middle
    of moving.\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-10 12:46:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "You will be missed, Nick!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-07-10 13:10:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Too bad Nick. I''ll miss you & your contribution as well. Hope your move
    is not to difficult--it''s always such a hassle. '
  created: '2009-07-10 14:55:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I'll miss you too guys!\r\nAnd meeting new Typophiles such as Richard Fink,
    and seeing Will Hill (an old friend from the UK) again.\r\nYeah, moving is a big
    hassle and sad leaving the old place with so many memories and work put into it,
    but we're trying to make things as interesting as possible by taking on a fresh
    money pit."
  created: '2009-07-10 17:56:54'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > taking on a fresh money pit.</cite>\r\n\r\nIn anticipation of all
    that future web fonts income, eh? ;-)\r\n\r\nSorry we won't see you, Nick. Thanks
    for the auction donations. Good luck on the move.\r\n\r\n-- Kent."
  created: '2009-07-10 18:32:49'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: :( Will  miss you, Nick. Hope the move isn't too hellish. See you next year,
    if not sooner.
  created: '2009-07-11 04:58:07'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "For those Typophiles who are coming to Atlanta this week, Tamye has posted
    some useful information about transportation from the airport to the hotel on
    the [[http://www.typecon.com|TypeCon]] Talk blog. \r\n\r\nThis is a good place,
    in general, to check for helpful last-minute communications."
  created: '2009-07-13 13:02:36'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: No TypeCon for me this year either. Sad. I've been every year since 2003.
    Fingers crossed for  next year. I'll miss seeing the gang and meeting all the
    new peeps. Someone give Gerry a hug for me.
  created: '2009-07-14 00:00:31'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Oh my, you''ll be missed, Tiffany. '
  created: '2009-07-14 00:03:45'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "For those who are coming in to Atlanta for pre-conference workshops, just
    a reminder: these are *pre* conference. We'll still be getting set up for the
    main events. \r\n\r\nIn particular, what I'm thinking is we won't have the goodie
    bags for you until registration opens Wednesday afternoon. So, if you're a foodie,
    you might want to bookmark the dining map that Shu posted on the [[http://www.typecon.com/talk.php|TypeCon
    Talk]] blog (\"Eat Like a Local\") ahead of time."
  created: '2009-07-14 12:32:30'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: "Audio of TypeCon2009 Web Fonts panel discussion now online. Listen, learn,
    and pass it on.\r\n\r\nhttp://typecon.com/talk.php?id=333"
  created: '2009-07-20 23:55:12'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: thanks
  created: '2009-07-23 03:36:22'
date: '2009-06-19 00:37:13'
node_type: forum
title: TypeCon Registration is working

---
