---
author:
  name: charles ellertson
body: "We're setting a book where the author insists the glottal stop in (Ixil) Mayan
  be represented using Unicode 0027. This would be different from the little Mayan
  we've previously set, where the glottal stop was signaled by U+02BC (or U+2019).\r\n\r\nI
  don't follow the shifts in orthographies all that much, but that one is passing
  strange -- except for a few who only do a quick internet search. I have seen 0027
  used for a glottal stop in some internet sites -- Omniglot comes to mind -- but
  in all such cases, through out the entire site, the English single quote (and apostrophe)
  is a also U+0027. There isn't a U+2019 in sight.\r\n\r\nNow of course, we'll set
  what the author & publisher want, but for my own sake, I'd like to know if there
  has been a change.\r\n\r\nActually, the proper *character* would, I suppose, be
  U+02BC . . .\r\n\r\nTIA"
comments:
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "I can't say I've got any experience with it, but wouldn't it make more sense
    to use U+0242 (with uc U+0241)?\r\n\r\nI always saw U+0294 as for almost exclusive
    use in IPA encoding, and U+02BC as just that, a modifier letter (which means it
    forms an unbreakable semantic unit along with the letter(s) it modifies).\r\n\r\nU+0027
    and U+2019 just seems to be taking glyphs instead of characters.  Of course I
    suppose if they REALLY want to encode it one way or another you can just take
    your prefered glottal stop character and (license permitting) place it in U+0027."
  created: '2009-06-22 22:17:34'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "U+02BC is the correct character for the apostrophe-shaped letter used in
    many orthographies to indicate a glottal stop. Here is the description for 'modifier
    letter apostrophe' from the relevant <a href=\"http://unicode.org/charts/PDF/U02B0.pdf\">Unicode
    Chart</a>:\r\n\r\n* glottal stop, glottalization, ejective\r\n* many languages
    use this as a letter of their alphabets\r\n* used as a tone marker in Dogri (swarbal
    chinha)\r\n* used as a length marker in Bodo (gojocoma)\r\n* U+2019 is the preferred
    character for a punctuation apostrophe\r\n\r\nUnicode including this as a 'modifier'
    letter is a bit unfortunate, but the above description makes it clear that this
    is the character required.\r\n\r\nU+0242 and U+0241 don't apply here as they are
    different letters altogether. They are letters that frequently represent the same
    sound as U+02BC, i.e. a glottal stop, but in different orthographies with different
    casing behaviour (U+02BC doesn't come in separate lowercase and uppercase versions).
    They are different letters in the same way that 'thorn' and 'theta' are different
    letters although they generally represent the same sound.\r\n\r\nReturning to
    the original post, Charles, could you clear up for us whether the author is insisting
    that the U+0027 glyph is used, or that the U+0027 code point is used?"
  created: '2009-06-23 09:32:57'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "The author is insisting on a straight up & down mark. I'm taking this to
    mean U+0027. BTW, I'm not in contact with the author. The chain, typical for a
    compositor, is comp > designer > editor > author.\r\n\r\n* * *\r\n\r\nI believe
    I put the original question poorly. At this point, what I'm asking is really a
    language question, a *glyph* question, rather than a purely type or phonetics
    question. I posted to this forum because there is a tremendous level of expertise
    on several levels. Originally, I though the question similar to \"how to draw
    a proper ogonek in Polish\" that Adam gave us a while back, but I see that is
    perhaps wrong.\r\n\r\nWrong because the proper glyph to signal a glottal stop
    varies across languages. In Polynesian, U+2018 shows the proper glyph. In Apache,
    Navajo, etc., U+2019 is the character that shows the proper appearance (even if
    not the \"proper character\"). Occasionally, the \"phonetic\" glottal stop glyph
    is used in the language itself, not just in analysis of the language.\r\n\r\nBut
    things are never simple, what I want to know is \"what's the proper character
    (glyph) in Mayan if you have the whole typecase to choose from? Keep in mind that
    the character U+0027 is erroneously used for the glottal stop generally on several
    internet sites. For instance,\r\n\r\nhttp://www.omniglot.com/writing/apache.htm\r\n\r\nNotice
    that the glottal stop seems to be the \"vertical apostrophe\" U+0027. But if you
    poke around on the site -- fairly valuable, generally -- you notice that U+0027
    is all there is. It's used for \"English\" apostrophes; U+2019 never occurs. Same
    problem with Wikipedia.\r\n\r\nI have never seen a scholarly use of U+0027 for
    a glottal stop, and I've seen quite a few varying orthographies over the years.
    What I have seen is indigenous people pick up information from various places,
    and with the advent of PostScript, create their own fonts. For example, in the
    early days of Fontographer, the Navajo schools made up a Navajo font. Good for
    them. But somebody had described the \"hook\" (AKA ogonek) as a \"reversed cedilla,\"
    so they took a cedilla & reversed it.\r\n\r\nWho am I to tell the Navajo they're
    wrong about their own language? (But I did notice that they've now redone the
    font, and the ogonek is used instead of the reversed cedilla.)\r\n\r\nOr, Mayan
    writers may have decided that they want control over their language, disregarding
    what scholars have done. Their right. What I want to guard against is the use
    of a glyph because it was the only thing available to an author, or because an
    internet site such as Omniglot gave the wrong information.\r\n\r\nThe book is
    to be set in an Adobe font, which I can modify. Since I'm the end user, there
    is essentially the whole typecase available. Anybody know what's the proper glyph
    in Mayan?"
  created: '2009-06-23 12:39:54'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Thanks, Charles. That's much clearer.\r\n\r\nIt's always confusing when it
    comes to the typographic treatment of the apostrophe, the prime mark, and other
    characters that are superficially similar when written by hand.\r\nBecause of
    the ease of input, they are typically substituted by U+0027, especially on the
    web.\r\n\r\nFor the apostrophe in English and other major languages, we can confidently
    say that U+2019 is the right character, and that the raised comma is the correct
    shape. If you received a manuscript in English that used the 'vertical apostrophe'
    throughout, you wouldn't think twice about changing it to the correct form.\r\n\r\nWith
    something like the glottal stop in Ixil Mayan, it's more complicated, especially
    if there is no real established typographic tradition. However, I think that as
    the usual apostrophe glyph has been used in the past for Mayan languages, there
    is no reason to use a 'vertical apostrophe' glyph unless there is an explicit
    indication of a change in practice. I'd ask a Mayan linguist, but there's no guarantee
    that you'd find an expert on Mayan typography."
  created: '2009-06-23 13:50:38'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "The images [[http://www.amazon.com/Relatively-Speaking-Language-Anthropological-Linguistics/dp/0195099109/ref=sr_1_9?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1245854580&sr=1-9#reader|here]]
    (p3) are unfortunately a bit low-res for seeing punctuation marks clearly... but
    they do look suspiciously like 0027 don't they? (Alongside definite curly apostrophes
    in the English text)\r\n_______________________________________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2009-06-24 15:49:03'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Thanks all.\r\n\r\nI did get an email, then a phone all, from someone who
    had done extensive work, including work on a scholarly level, with Ixil Mayan.
    According to him, the preference is indeed for the straight up and down mark,
    typical of U+0027. He did indicate that if, for some reason, U+0027 is inclined
    in the font, then another mark should be used.\r\n\r\nI'm certainly no expert,
    but with this, I'm satisfied that the straight up & down mark is acceptable for
    Ixil. There may be competing orthographies with other scholars, but that happens.\r\n\r\n\r\n*
    * *\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>In theory, there is no difference between theory and practice.
    But in practice, there is.</cite> -- Yogi Berra"
  created: '2009-06-24 18:34:15'
- author:
    name: David W. Goodrich
  body: "Let's hear it for Yogi Berra.\r\n\r\nI was worrying about whether I'd been
    handling the glottal stop in \"Hawai\u2018i\" correctly -- the U. of. H Press
    occurs frequently in bibliographies I set.  According to charles_e and Jeongsong,
    I'm probably safe using the single open quote char. (U+2018, a.k.a Alt-0145 in
    Windows).  Guifa's note sent me scurrying to the Unicode charts to confirm that
    the IPA U+02BC isn't in the fonts I tend to use, but its reverse U+2BB sometimes
    can be found; Unicode's description includes \"used in Hawai`ian orthography as
    `okina (glottal stop).\"  So maybe I should have been using that?\r\n\r\nChecking
    the UH Press <a href=\"http://www.uhpress.hawaii.edu/cart/shopcore/?db_name=uhpress&page=shop/index&PHPSESSID=b233d3c4f797c0e1c1f8e4e7f0b70de1\">website</a>,
    I see that they use both U+2018 and U+0060 (grave) on a single page.  And to get
    really picayune, \"Hawaiian\" is an English word, so it doesn't get the glottal
    stop (apparently rendered in the Unicode description with a grave).\r\n\r\nDavid"
  created: '2009-06-24 19:32:13'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nWhat you are doing is fine. Polynesian -- which of course,
    is the source of the word *Hawai\u2018i* -- uses the single open quote *glyph*
    to signal a glottal stop. Strictly, from a *character* point of view, it should
    be U+02BB, for \"turned comma\" rather than U+2018. Of course, the origin of what
    we now call \"single open quote\" (AKA U+2018) was -- you guessed it, a turned
    comma.\r\n\r\nGufta (Matthew)'s comments apply more to the analysis of language,
    rather that what various languages use to signal things like a glottal stop.\r\n\r\n*
    * *\r\n\r\nWe use to set books for the University of Hawai\u2018i Press when the
    text had Chinese before Unicode and OpenType CJK fonts became so common. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-24 20:34:42'
- author:
    name: David W. Goodrich
  body: "I, too, did several things for them back in the old days.  The one I have
    at hand is from 1996 and the title page shows it came after the press changed
    its name from the University Press of Hawaii; it also has the glottal stop mandated
    by the state legislature.\r\n\r\nOne worry I have -- perhaps because I don't know
    any better -- is that if I use U+02BB (\"turned comma\") for jobs that end up
    being distributed electronically it could screw up searching and indexing on account
    of its relative rarity.  The U+2018 convention seems safer -- not to mention more
    in line with your Yogi Berra practicality."
  created: '2009-06-24 21:56:34'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "You can cut it seven ways from Sunday. If you wanted to search for all and
    only glottal stops in a work with Polynesian, using U+20BB would make that easy.
    The whole point of using the right character comes from future \"electronic repurposing.\"
    The glyph for the Latin capital \"A\" is the same glyph as the Greek capital Alpha.
    For printing only, you could use either one. Syntactically they are quite different.\r\n\r\nHaving
    said that, guess which character we use for  the raised or turned comma to signal
    glottal stops.\r\n\r\nPart of the reason is I can count on the thumbs of one foot
    the number of competent book fonts that have any of the spacing modifier characters.
    I guess I could put them in, kerning should be a bit different for an apostrophe
    than for a glottal stop. But (1) I'm lazy, and (2) all the manuscripts come in
    with either 0027 or 0218. Nobody's going to pay us for doing this search when
    the manuscript is labeled \"editorially correct."
  created: '2009-06-25 01:34:56'
- author:
    name: David W. Goodrich
  body: "\"Nobody\u2019s going to pay us for doing this [re]search...\"  The editor's
    expertise lies elsewhere, the author isn't sure (and is clueless about design),
    meanwhile the head of production is more interested in moving jobs through the
    system.  What's a conscientious compositor to do?"
  created: '2009-06-25 02:36:39'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>\u201CNobody\u2019s going to pay us for doing this [re]search...\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\nActually,
    I'll usually do the research, no charge. I find it interesting, and look at it
    as an investment. What is learned carries over to the next time the subject comes
    up. That's different from performing hand searches in a particular manuscript,
    no leveraging there.\r\n\r\nAs to which character to use, you can get a difference
    of opinion, so I'd not change the expected 2018 without clearing it with the publisher.
    That you can argue the publisher is often wrong is a different matter.\r\n\r\nWhat
    started this thread wasn't that I would have insisted the publisher or author
    was wrong, but that they might want to consider a \"Note on Orthography\" if there
    were varying opinions, or if scholars tended to use a different orthography than
    \"indigenous people.\" And, if a usage were odd enough, and there was to be no
    note on orthography, I might want to remove our name from the \"composed by\"
    line on the CIP page.\r\n\r\nThat's about as conscientious as I can get.\r\n\r\nBy
    the way, I see you're a compositor working in the University press market. \"New
    Haven\" makes it sound like we might be competitors. "
  created: '2009-06-25 04:08:14'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: 'Here is something I noticed: in the very same Wiki table presenting the <a
    href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mayan_languages#Modern_orthography">Modern
    orthography</a> of Mayan Languages, U+0027 is used in the ALMG (Guatemalan Academy
    of Mayan Languages) orthography whilst the corresponding IPA representation uses
    U+2019. [But is is possible that the cooccurrence is unintentional, the U+0027
    may have been typed, and the IPA may have been cut and pasted.]'
  created: '2009-06-25 14:47:16'
- author:
    name: David W. Goodrich
  body: "As I see it, composition is where the rubber meets the road in publishing.
    \ The customer is always right, though sometimes it is worth the effort to educate
    him or her about less-than-obvious details.  And as you say, any innovation needs
    to be cleared.   I like to know how things ought to be as well as what's practical
    now, hoping to keep the files I submit today from becoming out-dated too quickly.
    \ Some publishers appreciate that, and I think it helps me retain customers in
    a competitive environment.  One can't charge for researching arcanities, they're
    just another \"loss leader\".  This week, for example, I get to make a few modern
    forms based on archaic Chinese \"Stone Drum\" inscriptions -- about as obscure
    as you can get (though I see there is a <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stone_Drums_of_Qin\">wikipedia</a>
    page).\r\n\r\nThat is an indication of the small niche in which I operate: almost
    all my work involves Chinese, sometimes very old.  So I'm more a student (thanks
    to your contributions on these forums) than a serious competitor.  As for New
    Haven, well, like a lot of folks here I came for Yale and and stayed for the town.
    \ In my case, it wasn't the design program but rather the anthropology department
    on the far side of the campus.  Back in the days when IBM compatibility meant
    something I bought a PC clone that couldn't print from a Chinese add-on to DOS,
    and had to learn all about interrupt 17h.  That proved more fun than finishing
    a dissertation on Chinese archaeology."
  created: '2009-06-25 15:12:26'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "I had a look at the <a href=\"http://www.almg.org.gt/portal/\">ALMG</a> (Academia
    de Lenguas Mayas de Guatemala) site and, after selecting  \"Publicaciones > Alfabetos\",
    I was redirected to a pdf document including the following alphabet for the Ixil
    language. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/alfabeto_6674.jpg]\r\n\r\nThe
    word \"saltillo\" (also used for all the other mayan alphabets in the document)
    caught my attention.  I first found the <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saltillo_(linguistics)\">Saltillo
    Wiki entry</a>, where I learned that \"saltillo\" (meaning little skip) refers
    to a glottal stop, that it is a straight apostrophe-like symbol that has often
    in the past been substituted for by letters such as U+02BC, MODIFIER LETTER APOSTROPHE
    and that the codepoints for the saltillo are U+A78B LATIN CAPITAL LETTER SALTILLO
    and U+A78C LATIN SMALL LETTER SALTILLO. The <a href=\"http://unicode.org/charts/PDF/UA720.pdf\">corresponding
    unicode chart</a> gives the following example glyphs:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/saltillo_6555.jpg]\r\nI
    also had a look at the <a href=\"http://www.sil.org/mexico/\">Summer Institute
    of Linguistics (SIL) in Mexico</a> <a href=\"http://www.sil.org/mexico/ling/glosario/E005ai-Glossary.htm#Alpha-S\">Electronic
    Glossary of Linguistic Terms</a> where I found <a href=\"http://www.sil.org/mexico/ling/glosario/iDefnSaltillo.htm#DefnSaltillo\">this
    definition of <em>saltillo</em></a>:  <cite>A (usually enlarged) straight single
    quote or dotless exclamation point, often used in practical orthographies to represent
    a glottal stop. The name \"saltillo\" (possibly used only when this symbol is
    used for languages of Mexico) is borrowed from a Spanish word meaning 'a little
    skip', a description of what the voice does in pronouncing this sound.</cite>\r\n\r\nAlso
    on the SIL site, I found this <a href=\"http://www.sil.org/mexico/maya/chol-tumbala/S121d-DiccionarioCholEd3-ctu.pdf\">ch'ol
    dictionary</a>  that uses a font called CharisSILAmArea, that encodes the \"saltillo\"
    by a private codepoint, U+F21D; here are two words from that pdf file with that
    \"straight apostrophe\" (I copied them from the pdf, pasted them side by side
    in textedit and selected CharisSIL, but they look just like in the pdf):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cabaatsam_4941.jpg]\r\nIf
    I look at the CharisSIL fontfile with FontForge, I see that the character at position
    0xF21D is nothing but uniA78C. Things seem to fit together.\r\n\r\nMichel\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-26 02:56:35'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Hmm. I must confess that the word <em>ats'am</em> in the dictionary is better
    spaced than what I get in textedit.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/atsam_4119.jpg]"
  created: '2009-06-26 03:51:50'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Thanks for the research, Michel. So that should confirm that the 'straight
    apostrophe' shape, preferably an enlarged one that could be described as a 'dotless
    exclamation point', is desired for Ixil Mayan, at least until we find another
    authoritative source telling us otherwise.\r\n\r\nHowever, the same PDF document
    looks like it presents the <em>saltillos</em> at least sometimes as raised commas,
    although it's hard to see with the low resolution. Other PDFs from the ALMG site
    use the raised comma for the <em>saltillo</em> as well. A result of automatic
    'smart quote' substitution, perhaps? Who knows. One wishes they would be more
    careful."
  created: '2009-06-26 08:43:37'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Brian, you must have spotted the quotes in running titles. The ch&#xa78c;ol
    dictionary contains indeed 185 occurrences of U+0027 and 182 of them are in the
    word CH&#x0027;OL in running titles; there is also one occurrence on page 67 in
    the word <em>ch&#x0027;ol</em> and two on page 27 in &#x0027;asi debes decir&#x0027;.
    There is no other \"apostrophe\" in the text.\r\n\r\nThere are three occurrences
    of U+2019 (single quote) for a quote inside a quote in the bibliography.\r\n\r\nThere
    are 12231 occurences of the minuscule saltillo uniA78C and 16 occurrences of uniA78B
    (capital saltillo), all of them in the word CH&#xA78B;OL.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-26 18:10:40'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Just a note: U+A78C isn't even in the Unicode Standard (5.0) book. I did
    find it on the web in Latin Extended D. Anybody want to take bets on whether or
    not it is in any commercial fonts used to typeset books?\r\n\r\nThis sort of thing
    does leave one in a quandary. U+0027 will be most useful for later \"repurposing\"
    as such occurs in the book world, but it does look like U+A78C would be the proper
    character. Of course, I can put in in the font for the printed book, but whoever
    \"repurposes\" those files will be in for a bit of fun. "
  created: '2009-06-26 23:16:05'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Charles\r\n\r\nI am not familiar with the editing tools you are using. For
    someone like me, working with a utf-8 text input (for XeTeX of instance), \"repurposing\"
    would be quite easy with the saltillos in the source file encoded as U+A78B (for
    the larger one) and U+A78C (for the smaller one): anyone in the future wanting
    the saltillo to be encoded with U+2019 would then simply apply a global substitution
    on the source file, substituting U+2019 for both U+A78B and U+A78C; similarly
    if U+0027 is then preferred. \r\n"
  created: '2009-06-27 15:10:11'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Michel,\r\n\r\nOK, makes sense. Especially if we were doing any of the \"repurposing\"
    work. The real situation is we typeset the books, they are printed, and the publisher
    doesn't look at the text files again until there is a need. We give the publisher
    at least one PDF file (for printing), and the InDesign files minus the fonts --
    it would break the EULA to give them the fonts.\r\n\r\nLord knows who will be
    doing the work for any subsequent \"repurposing.\" Likely not us."
  created: '2009-06-27 19:51:38'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "I could find the proposal for the unicode points U+A78B and U+A78C <a href=\"http://scripts.sil.org/cms/SCRIPTs/render_download.php?site_id=nrsi&format=file&media_id=L206-259R&filename=L206-259R.pdf\"><strong>here</strong></a>
    on SIL site (with capital and small saltillo switched with respect to what unicode
    adopted). It is argued that in the Huasteco mayan language U+02BC is used for
    glottalized consonants whilst a vertically symmetric glyph (I guess that is part
    of what is meant by \"straight\") is used for the glottal stop proper, giving
    :\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/huasteco_5271.jpg]\r\nThey also have
    a FAQ on <a href=\"http://scripts.sil.org/cms/SCRIPTs/page.php?site_id=nrsi&item_id=EncodingFAQ#363ac619\">how
    to encode the glottal stop</a>."
  created: '2009-06-29 12:44:25'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "There is another \u201Cstraight\u201D modifier letter available in Unicode:
    U+02C8, used in Skolt Sami."
  created: '2016-12-30 23:43:53'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "The most interesting approach I saw to Mayan glotal stop was made by Steve
    Ross in Yukatek font. You can find information about it in pages 25-26 of <a href=\r\n\"http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download;jsessionid=9043DE2847E8422BEF0B962F8357F3D2?doi=10.1.1.173.966&rep=rep1&type=pdf\">his
    paper</a>."
  created: '2016-12-31 21:03:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Ross's Yukatek innovation is awesome. We need to apply such bravado much more
    broadly.
  created: '2016-12-31 23:12:00'
- author:
    name: srElliott
  body: "Igor & Hrant ~ \r\nPlease confirm the link for \"Steve Ross in Yukatek font\"
    . . . (\"his paper\" is now a broken link) \r\n~ thanks!\r\n"
  created: '2017-01-02 20:40:22'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: I put a copy on my own site-to-be. There are both the Yukatek <a href="http://www.igorfreiberger.com/Yukatek_1.pdf">paper</a>
    and <a href="http://www.igorfreiberger.com/Yukatek_2.pdf">specimen</a>.
  created: '2017-01-02 22:21:00'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Looks like you need http:// to make the links work.
  created: '2017-01-03 11:02:09'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: Thanks! Links are correct now.
  created: '2017-01-03 18:37:22'
date: '2009-06-22 19:29:49'
title: The glottal stop in Ixil Mayan (more phonetics)

---
