---
author:
  name: Randy
  picture: 110731
body: "I'm in the midst of a client project where I've been asked to tinker with Futura.
  Here is a sample that examine the bold and what is needed (IMO) to fix it. I think
  Lucas DeGroot has redone Futura for VW for many of the same reasons, but I haven't
  taken a close look at his results. Not sure what is so satisfying about shooting
  botox into an aging font, but it sure is fun! (and instructive)\r\n\r\nSpot the
  fixes:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fix_futura_4294.gif]"
comments:
- author:
    name: thegoldenratio-spammer
    picture: 126074
  body: Randy, beautiful work!
  created: '2012-12-09 08:17:33'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Nice. You've certainly made it more contemporary. When you say "original"
    <a href="http://www.fontshop.com/fontcase/genres/futura/">whose digitization</a>
    do you mean?
  created: '2009-06-24 01:57:21'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: If you plan to take a look at Luc(as)' revision, you might want to also check
    out Frutiger's Alpha BP, in which he removed the optical compensations that Colin
    Forbes considered "fiddly." There are three pages on it in the new Frutiger Typefaces
    book.
  created: '2009-06-24 03:00:50'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "The Neufville version. This was for a logo which explains the liberties taken
    with the a. Stephen your list confirms that if this ever did become a font, it
    would need more of the qualities of the a throughout to stand on it's own.\r\n\r\nauricfuzz:
    I've added the book to my wish list. I hadn't realized Frutiger did a version,
    but I do agree that the optical compensation is fiddly. Nowhere more evident than
    the a. Here you can physically see the designer battling the geometric formula
    to produce a workable letter. I chose a different compromise."
  created: '2009-06-24 05:16:37'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "<em>...explains the liberties taken with the a.</em> You mean like Paul Renner
    did? \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nThis is <a href=\"http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/wiescherdesign/futura-classic/\">Gert
    Wiescher's Futura Classic</a>. For some reason it's not mentioned in the Fontshop
    typecase that Stephen gives.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Futura_ahoi_6356.jpg]"
  created: '2009-06-24 08:20:38'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: I know there are some fanciful alternates that Renner did, especially the
    chevron g. I've never read about the thinking behind them, but they always strike
    me as looking from a different font entirely. Interesting in a historical sense,
    but not practically IMO. Futura classic seems to solve some of the same issues
    I was noticing, though I wonder about the different counter heights on the h and
    o. Sometimes this can be distracting. Maybe not in this case.
  created: '2009-06-24 18:46:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The lower case of Futura was never as completely successful as the great,
    timeless upper case. \r\n\r\nIf you are redoing the whole thing I think a key
    challenge is making lower and upper case relate. The original long extenders on
    the lower case I think work, and help readability. The single story a, as you
    and others have noted, is problematic, though it does harmonize well with the
    upper case. \r\n\r\nOf course Frutiger's Avenir (\"future\" in French) is an effort--quite
    successful--to modernize Futura with short extenders and a double story a. \r\n\r\nTo
    me your \"a\" doesn't go so well with the look of the rest of the classic Futura,
    but you might rework the whole thing into something different and good.    "
  created: '2009-06-24 19:41:04'
- author:
    name: hdschellnack
    picture: 110317
  body: "Luc's Version is a favorite of mine, and it's such a shame it cannot be used,
    as it is owned by VW :-D. It is made a bit colder, more geometric - and certainly
    not always easier to typeset - but at the same time feels more modern. \r\n\r\nVery
    nice idea to twist Futura - someone really should do a modern version of that
    :-D. \r\n\r\nHD Schellnack"
  created: '2009-06-26 19:15:00'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "If my understanding is correct they weren\u2019t alternates, they were the
    original letters. Futura as originally designed was more radical (and flawed),
    but Renner was amiable to the Bauer foundry taming/fixing the design and replacing
    some of the wilder lowercase characters as they proved unpopular in the first
    few years that the typeface was on the market. "
  created: '2009-06-26 19:20:59'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Randy, are you working your way through fixing all the well-known fonts?!\r\n\r\nThis
    sure looks nice! I really like the changes, the thin joins of Futura always made
    me a bit anxious.\r\n\r\nAre you doing a whole character set?"
  created: '2009-06-26 21:02:40'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: Thanks for your comments everyone. I've not done a full lowercase, but I will
    probably do that in the near futura if this type is selected for the logo. Otherwise
    the distant futura.
  created: '2009-06-26 23:58:36'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Not a complete lowercase, but played a bit over the weekend.\r\n\r\nMy custom
    version of Futura:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/futura_rev_5270.gif]\r\n\r\nNeufville
    Futura @ same x-height size:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/futura_orig_5863.gif]\r\n\r\nSome
    spacing issues for me: some from the gif, some from no-kerning, some from actual
    issues! In general, a bit more compact and even IMO. Interesting trying to play
    in the narrow serif on the \"a\". Eg. In the n also? No, it looked too weak. Another
    area for question is the angle of the terminals on \"e\" and \"c\". Check the
    e though.. the neufville version looks like another weight. A challenge for sure.
    It would be interesting to see how this translates to cap and lighter weights.\r\n\r\nEdit:\r\nWanted
    to say thanks to Miguel Sousa for his very helpful Adhesion Text tool: http://www.adhesiontext.com/
    very useful for testing partial character sets."
  created: '2009-06-29 19:51:12'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Wow, this is nice work indeed. Looking fresh and yummy!\r\nI'm especially
    intrigued by what you did to the \"j\"."
  created: '2009-06-29 20:28:42'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "This is cool. The shorter ascenders/descenders change the flavor a lot, I
    think.\r\nDid you try a less-steep interior line on those thinner bits (abgq)?
    \r\nI like the narrower k a lot. t and f are great too (though does t dip too
    low?)\r\ne is a good solution, but c's terminals aren't working for me.\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-29 20:56:45'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Thanks! \r\n\r\nCraig: Yes, I did try them more triangular, if that's what
    you mean. It made it a little to \"Tarzana\" for my taste. Speaking of, I did
    try something like the Tarzana solution for the c -- flat on top angled on bottom.
    The trouble with c and e is that they are genetic brothers, but c needs a milkshake,
    and e needs a diet! And yes, t was suffering from gravitational pull. Good catch!\r\n\r\nI
    did also to a horizontal sheer on the c and e, but felt the e a little distracting.
    Though it's not bad, the quirky thin crossbar relates to the quirky thin serif.
    Here are a few permutations:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ce_fixtura_4839.gif]"
  created: '2009-06-29 23:12:24'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: good lord you certainly fixed that 'e'.
  created: '2009-06-30 00:44:01'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: Ah but which fix?
  created: '2009-06-30 05:29:15'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: both
  created: '2009-06-30 07:40:23'
- author:
    name: Charles Leonard
    picture: 111392
  body: "The shortened ascenders -- and thereby relatively increased x-height -- certainly
    make it much more in keeping with grotesque conventions, and correspondingly more
    distant from Renner's vision of Futura as a letter style appropriate for extended
    text settings. \r\n\r\nWhat really moves this away from the idea of a serif-less
    roman and into the grotesque camp are tail on the t -- well done -- and the oblique
    arm terminations on the lower case c -- less so. The need for the vertical cuts,
    which are shared with Gill Sans, is less obvious in English than in German where
    c is frequently followed by h or k. This issue was discussed about a year ago
    at:\r\n[[RE: ch & ck in German : please enlighten me!]]\r\n\r\nI suspect Renner
    would have disliked your changes, but they would have been embraced by Tschichold. "
  created: '2009-07-07 14:06:06'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "There is a definite grotesquification going on here: the letter relationships
    of Helvetica or AG, applied to Futura. (See the c/e)\r\n\r\n<em>Renner\u2019s
    vision of Futura as a letter style appropriate for extended text settings</em>\r\nI've
    never been able to make Futura work for extended text. Not sure I've ever seen
    it done well either. Seems like the vertical stress and geometric/repeated forms
    create a problem no amount of ascender can surmount. Someone will no doubt say
    Futura in metal is much better for text than the anemic digital versions!\r\n\r\n<em>The
    need for the vertical cuts, which are shared with Gill Sans, is less obvious in
    English than in German where c is frequently followed by h or k. This issue was
    discussed about a year ago</em>\r\nThanks for that thread (http://typophile.com/node/43911),
    I'd only seen reference to it in Bringhurst. Is this a need as much as an older
    convention? Else why not a similar solution for c_l? I will explore a solution
    for the c that is closer to Futura, but I tend to dislike a vertical sheer as
    the weight gets bold, and prefer the e and c to relate more closely as above.
    Perhaps there is a middle ground for an optional alternate.\r\n\r\nAs usual, Ive
    grown to appreciate Renner and Futura much more as a result of this experiment.
    Thanks for your thoughtful comments Charles! "
  created: '2009-07-07 18:47:38'
- author:
    name: Charles Leonard
    picture: 111392
  body: "<em>Is this a need as much as an older convention? Else why not a similar
    solution for c_l?</em>\r\nIt is really a linguistic artifact. Just for fun I picked
    a page at random from <em>Die Kunst der Typographie,</em> Renner's most successful
    use of his own face. On the page, 95, there were roughly 40 pairs of ch or ck
    and not a single cl, and that's out of approx. 2400 characters.\r\n\r\nThe point
    I am making is that Futura has particular aspects of style that are historically
    and culturally contingent. We are not \u2014 or at least I am not German \u2014
    and don't compose in the language, but Renner did, and at its heart Futura is
    a German face. Adaptive use, and modification of those contingent aspects produces
    a derivative of Futura, and in this case what appears to be a good one.\r\n\r\nOne
    more suggestion. In looking at your sample again the test word \"maim\" sort of
    jumped out at me. The addition of weight to the \"bactrian\" humps of the m throws
    the balance of that particular character too much to the right for my taste. \r\nBon
    Chance."
  created: '2009-07-08 03:25:46'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Thanks Charles. It is helpful to see what I considered a quirk in Futura
    (the c), to be Renner's solution to a specific problem. Dictionary in hand I will
    re-examine the \"bactrian\" humps!\r\n\r\nUpdate: client has chosen the futura
    lettering for their logo, so it looks like I'll need to press on. I'll show more
    when appropriate."
  created: '2009-07-08 04:32:37'
- author:
    name: mehallo
    picture: 109684
  body: "Keep going! \r\n\r\nAs someone who was playing in a similar (though serify)
    pond recently, I'm liking your update and the contemporary elements you're playing
    with (something I've not had the nerve to do on anything yet).\r\n\r\n:)\r\n\r\nsteve
    mehallo\r\ntinyurl.com/mehallofonts\r\nmehallo.com"
  created: '2009-07-08 06:39:20'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "[[http://www.bertholdtypes.com/bq_library/090204000.html|Futura Serie BQ]].\r\n\r\nFor
    the mix. Of note, this version has SC & OSF."
  created: '2009-07-08 07:16:14'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "This is not fixing Futura, this is designing a geometric sans. The result
    starts looking like Gotham, because that was also a solution for the same issue
    that Renner faced: designing a sans that is as neutral as can be. Renner wisely
    chose the Roman caps for his caps, as can still be seen in the protruding tips
    on the diagonals up to the Medium weight.\r\nBTW: when we did the Futura work
    for VW at MetaDesign in 1995, we worked from a Bauer letterpress specimen, so
    the VW version (called VW Headline as it was only intended for headlines, text
    was and is Utopia) is very close to large-size foundry Futura. Neufville, of course,
    worked from the same originals, seeing that they own the license to the Bauer
    library."
  created: '2009-07-08 09:18:38'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hypatia-sans-bold_5251.png]'
  created: '2009-07-08 17:47:00'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Is it just me or does that alt a in Hypatia look a little overinflated?
  created: '2009-07-08 18:40:31'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Florian: this make me want to throw a aghilmnprty.\r\n\r\nErik: Thank you
    for your comments and the info about VW Headline. I'll have to find a pdf at the
    VW website and compare it to the Neufville version. Regarding \"fixing\" vs \"designing\"
    I agree with you. The word choice references a group of threads earlier about
    \"fixing\" Arial, and there is no disrespect intended to anyone on my part in
    either case. At first I was set to argue your Gotham reference, but after reviewing
    my H&FJ printed specimen I have to agree with you there too. It is amazing what
    a two-story vs single story a does to change the personality of a geometric alphabet.
    I wonder who would recognize the Gotham lowercase with a single story a.  \r\n\r\nI
    expect the choices left to be made in the caps and lighter weights will greatly
    influence where this typeface ultimately ends up on the Futura--Gotham geometric
    scale. On my end, I quit looking at Futura after I drew \"ahoi\" and instead have
    been drawing something Futura-like. For example, I did not realize what a departure
    the t was until I posted here.\r\n\r\nClearly one of the drawbacks of using a
    compass is how it always seems to draw a circle!"
  created: '2009-07-08 23:07:02'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "> It is amazing what a two-story vs single story a does to change the personality
    of a geometric alphabet\r\n\r\nYes! Interestingly it has the reverse affect in
    a <a href=\"http://bit.ly/sHilT\">serif</a>, where a single story 'a' is more
    casual and friendly."
  created: '2009-07-08 23:37:24'
- author:
    name: jfp
    picture: 110395
  body: "The biggest problem with such Futura revision is the how to draw terminals.
    Its clear that C, e, s, or G/g features special endings and it sound to me weird
    to try to make them suddenly exactly all the same. The point is perhaps not making
    them like the original one but trying to understand the philosophy behind them
    and improve.\r\n\r\nCan't wait the new \"s\": As its the key thing on such geometric
    font."
  created: '2009-08-10 14:24:05'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Hi JFP, yes definitely. The thing that is both great and difficult with such
    a reduced letter is the design considerations are so visible. For example the
    designer may choose to try to make the terminals of the c,e,s all match for ideological
    or style reasons, but the type may suffer in letter fit, or color, or legibility,
    or..\r\n\r\nNow, when I look at this genre of type, it is easier to see the compromises
    that were made, and which variables the designer felt were most important.\r\n\r\nTo
    answer your curiosity and solicit your further opinion, a complete lowercase.
    Oh, and my apologies. I did not notice the mangling of \"mont blanc\" to \"ont
    bslanc\" in the sample. So much for cultural sensitivity :-)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lowercase_4107.gif]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-10 16:57:48'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Can anybody point me to some images of the Volkswagen cut of Futura on the
    web? I keep seeing it fly by on busses etc but never get to see it properly. It
    looks really good compared to the versions that I have! I know that it's not available,
    I'd just like to study it!\r\n\r\nAlso I noticed that Lexus seems to have it's
    own geometric font, or at least I do not recognize it\r\nhttp://www.baumannmeyer.com.au/baumann_meyer/Lexus_%20Article.jpg\r\nhttp://unbecominglevity.blogharbor.com/pix/lexus_ad_2.jpg\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-15 13:23:50'
- author:
    name: jfp
    picture: 110395
  body: "Thanks for this new image Randy. Not easy to judge from this screen size.\r\n\r\nIn
    short I'm not convinced by the top a & g because it sound not natural and basic
    forms like futura should be in its \"philosophy.\" Also why q or p/d don't feature
    similar things? Be simple.\r\n\r\nk is also too 50's-80's like Frutiger did.\r\n\r\nThe
    came the c. Not easy to see what to do: Perhaps the best should be to try several
    variations in context to be able to judge. From the fully open futura-c to the
    one from your sample. In between, we can have similar open forms like in e and
    s. Ask yourself: I have a r, with horizontals terminals and c without at all.
    (I think that P Renner probably have designed is c like the r to avoid clashs
    and improve letter spacing?)\r\n\r\nThe s seems to identical top/bottom, a s should
    be designed like a pyramid. The middle of the s should be a bit heavier when top/bottom
    lighter a bit?\r\n\r\nhorizontal bar of e is too light."
  created: '2009-08-15 16:21:25'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "1985: try searching google with... site:vw.com filetype:pdf  it turned up
    lots of examples such as: www.vw.com/downloads/pdf/VW_CareFree_Maintenance.pdf
    \r\n\r\njfp: thank you for your feedback! Next time around, I will post a pdf
    or larger image.\r\n\r\nRegarding the small point on the a,g,q:\r\nI was introducing
    a different formula to try and solve the problem where I feel Futura's formula
    breaks down. This problem is in the bolder weights where the round bowls join
    the straight stem. In futura, the optical correction for me is too extreme resulting
    in round counters that are not round, and an ugly pinched curve to let more air
    into the join. So I opted to allow the curve to flow further into the stem and
    introduced a thin \"element\" to the font. I had hoped this would also relate
    thematically to the thin crossbar on the e, to solve a different problem in the
    neufville futura. I chose not to use this element at the baseline p/d because
    it seemed too weak as a \"support\" for the letter, but seemed ok at the x-height/top
    of the letters (a/g/q). Also, I think this adds \"recognition\" to this geometric
    sans. People can say immediately: ah that is Randy's geo-sans with the little
    \"a\" thingy. :-)\r\n\r\nRegarding the c:\r\nYes I should try something more like
    Futura. It seems the vertical sheer is good for spacing, but also the fully closed
    version (spacing similar to the \"o\"). It is the open version similar sheer to
    the e and s that is sometimes hard to space (for me). As it is, there are no other
    horizontal sheers, so my \"c\" solution may not be a good idea!\r\n\r\nRegarding
    the s/e:\r\nThese are the two letters that cause the most problems in the alphabet
    when it gets bold, so you have to play games. One thing that has guided my thinking
    here, and elsewhere is to try and keep interior counters about the same height.
    If they are too different, then it's distracting (as in the neufville e). So I've
    tried to keep the interior counter of the e, n, o, c, etc ending at about the
    same height. It cannot be exactly the same, but I'm trying to keep it visually
    close. This means for the s/e that the black must come out of the middle to balance
    color. I wonder what you think of this idea counter height consistency? You're
    comments seem to say I'm following this \"rule\" to closely!\r\n\r\nThank you
    again for your comments! I appreciate you taking the time to lend your experienced
    eyes to my effort, and will try your suggestions.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-15 18:36:09'
- author:
    name: Charles Leonard
    picture: 111392
  body: "<em>the designer may choose to try to make the terminals of the c,e,s all
    match for ideological or style reasons, but the type may suffer in letter fit,
    or color, or legibility</em>\r\nBecause letters in this style are so very reduced,
    after basic proportional issues are settled, arm terminals of curved strokes remain
    one of the most important aspects of the resulting face. In your sample, the word
    \"necessary\" contains a nice sequence of letters by which to judge the effect
    of different angles -- birdcages would be another one. \r\n\r\nIn an aesthetic
    sense, the ideal shape of each should emerge without regard to possible orthographic
    or programmatic issues. In that light, I feel that the reduced \"heel\" of the
    b needs some work. I can see how it is derived from the a, which you indicated
    was a component of the original design brief. Although I can understand its origin,
    to my eye it introduces a disturbance of the line, like a chipped character on
    a proof.  "
  created: '2009-08-15 18:47:15'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: Hey thanks Randy, didn't think of that, great tip.
  created: '2009-08-15 21:55:51'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: '"necessary birdcages" will get a look! I''d forgotten about the b in my note
    to jfp above. I agree that it is suffering from spindliness at the baseline. Thanks!'
  created: '2009-08-16 02:47:21'
date: '2009-06-24 01:07:19'
node_type: blog
title: Fixing Futura

---
