---
author:
  name: Flanney
  picture: 114454
body: "A link to a page holding a design competition found its way to my inbox today.
  The offer really is too good to be true..\r\n\r\n<strong>\r\nBanner Competition\r\n\r\nWhilst
  preparing for the launch of the Taskforce and this website we were looking at a
  mock up of the site. It looked a little bare. We needed a banner. We thought, who
  better to supply the banner than you? So rather than send the job off to the department\u2019s
  designer we thought we\u2019d hold a competition to design a banner for our site,
  and a logo for the Taskforce.\r\n\r\nThe prize? Well like a lot of things on Web
  2.0, there\u2019s no money involved, just your pride in your work and the opportunity
  to have that pride vindicated and acknowledged publicly \u2013 in short a platform
  to show the world how good you are! And a platform to express graphically the potential
  of Government 2.0.\r\n\r\nSo get to it.\r\n\r\n</strong>\r\n\r\nThe address is http://gov2.net.au/banner-competition/\r\n\r\nIf
  your keen better get in quick, I'm sure there are going to be plenty of quality
  designers chasing that sweet reward.\r\n\r\nPride...."
comments:
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: 'That isn''t too bad. Believe it or not, there are a lot of spec design competitions
    out there for which the only compensation is shame. '
  created: '2009-06-25 14:50:26'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Duck!
  created: '2009-06-25 14:54:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Well like a lot of things on Web 2.0, there\u2019s no money involved...</em>\r\n\r\nExcept,
    of course, for the people making the hardware and running the server farms. Some
    users are more equal than others."
  created: '2009-06-25 16:37:15'
- author:
    name: Ed_Aranda
    picture: 117416
  body: I wonder if they realize how blatantly insulting they are coming off. They
    better hope the high school kid that ends up doing their banner knows his or her
    way around CS.
  created: '2009-06-25 23:05:31'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Good lord, these people are here in Oz. Perhaps we could leave comments like
    this one:\r\n\r\nhttp://gov2.net.au/2009/06/22/our-design-competition/#comment-105"
  created: '2009-06-26 00:29:20'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'I''d enter but the US Pride to Australian Pride exchange rate just isn''t
    favorable right now. '
  created: '2009-06-26 01:49:32'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: ":0)\r\n(Infectious smile)"
  created: '2009-06-26 03:05:06'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Speaking of contests, here's something new:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.specwatch.info/\r\n\r\n[<a
    href=\"http://www.underconsideration.com/quipsologies/\">Via Quipsologies.</a>]"
  created: '2009-06-26 06:20:36'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: My <a href="http://gov2.net.au/banner-competition/#comment-114">comment</a>.
    This sentiment could apply in the US, and (especially) UK as well ... (malignant
    ellipsis)
  created: '2009-06-26 07:05:55'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "it's funny to watch no-budget operations try to get stuff via \"contests\".\r\n\r\nand
    it's even funnier to watch newbies scramble for some \"exposure\".\r\n\r\nbut
    the funniest thing of all is to watch \"established\" players cluck\r\ntheir disapproval
    and get hot-and-bothered about \"exploitation\",\r\nand grandstand with such futility
    about so-called \"professionalism\",\r\nand sputter about to build a ring of shame
    around the other parties.\r\n\r\nso, all in all, it's very funny.        :+)\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-26 08:55:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I am in fact a professional, and our organization has a policy against spec
    work, and we believe that not only serves our interests but makes the world a
    better place.\r\n\r\n--Nick Shinn, R.G.D."
  created: '2009-06-26 12:02:39'
- author:
    name: Flanney
    picture: 114454
  body: "No-budget operation?\r\n\r\nThey claim to have a departmental designer.\r\n\r\nNot
    to mention that its a government operation."
  created: '2009-06-26 14:03:50'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "I can't say I am impressed by the design of the SpecWatch page. Maybe they
    should have a contest for a better design. (Or perhaps the existing one was the
    result of a contest.)\r\n\r\n:)"
  created: '2009-06-26 14:09:09'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "nick said:\r\n>   I am in fact a professional, \r\n\r\ncongratulations.\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  and our organization has a policy against spec work, \r\n\r\ni believe you.
    \ because it's a professional organization.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   we believe that not
    only serves our interests \r\n\r\ni'm sure that it does.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   but makes
    the world a better place.\r\n\r\nof course.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-26 16:36:19'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "flanney said:\r\n>   No-budget operation?\r\n\r\nno budget for a banner,
    nope.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   They claim to have a departmental designer.\r\n\r\nyeah,
    but he refuses to do spec work,\r\nso he won't be entering the competition.\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  Not to mention that its a government operation.\r\n\r\nwell, that explains
    why they have no budget for a banner.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-26 16:41:22'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "bowerbird said:\r\n\r\n> congratulations.\r\n\r\nyou \r\n\r\n> i believe
    you. because it\u2019s a professional organization.\r\n\r\ndon't\r\n\r\n> i\u2019m
    sure that it does.\r\n\r\nneed\r\n\r\n> of course.\r\n\r\nto\r\n\r\n>no budget
    for a banner, nope.\r\n\r\nreply\r\n\r\n> yeah, but he refuses to do spec work,\r\n\r\nto\r\n\r\n>
    so he won\u2019t be entering the competition.\r\n\r\nevery\r\n\r\n>well, that
    explains why they have no budget for a banner.\r\n\r\nsentence\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-26 17:22:58'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "some sentences are so stupid they _deserve_ no reply.\r\nbut if it's quick
    and easy enough, i might do it anyway.        :+)\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-26 17:51:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>so stupid they _deserve_ no reply</em>\r\n\r\nI wouldn't say my post
    was stupid.\r\nI was pointing out that professionalism is not, as you infer with
    the term \"so called\", an opinion designers may have of themselves, but may also
    be by constituted by membership in an organization that is recognized and respected
    by non-designers, and, in the case of the RGD, defined by government as a profession,
    in a similar manner to the traditional professions. "
  created: '2009-06-26 18:12:59'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "your post wasn't stupid, nick...\r\n\r\nit should've been quite obvious\r\nwhich
    post i was referring to...\r\n\r\nas for my use of \"so-called\",\r\nthat might
    not be quite so clear.\r\n\r\ni was referring to my impression\r\nthat if someone
    has to constantly\r\nremind others that their output is\r\n\"professional\", there
    is something\r\nslightly contradictory about that...\r\n\r\nespecially when that
    person is upset\r\nbecause \"amateurs\" might be taking\r\na paycheck away.  no
    self-confidence.\r\n\r\nfinally, it's also extremely ironic that\r\nthere was
    no paycheck involved here.\r\n\r\nso a professional would sniff, and walk on.\r\nright?
    \ nothing to see here.  so move along.\r\n\r\ndo eagles get perturbed by pigeons
    who\r\nare busy fighting each other over crumbs?\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\np.s.
    \ the word you were looking for is \"imply\",\r\nand not \"infer\"...  \"infer\"
    was what _you_ did...\r\nbut considering that \"infer\" is what you did,\r\nand
    \"imply\" is _not_ what i did, there is some\r\nstrange correctness that you chose
    that term.\r\nto me, if you get paid, you are a professional.\r\nwhether the government
    recognizes it, or not.\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-26 22:03:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>if someone has to constantly\r\nremind others that their output is\r\n\u201Cprofessional\u201D,
    there is something\r\nslightly contradictory about that...</em>\r\n\r\nI don't
    think so.\r\nAs far as one's practice goes, one might choose to raise one's prices,
    sniff, and walk on.\r\nBut there are duties involved in being a professional,
    one of which is advocacy.\r\nI recall attending a talk by FHK Henrion many years
    ago, where he stated the duties--first to conduct one's business properly, but
    also to organize, promote, and educate.\r\nWe have to continually get the message
    out as to what is appropriate behavior, because the culture of graphic arts has
    been so disrupted by digitization that there are many without a formal education
    who, according to your basic definition of professional as getting paid for work,
    are professional designers, but have no idea what is ethical or not.\r\nSure,
    it's a power play by the establishment, but it also represents the cultural equity
    of evolved values, a remedy to the race-to-the-bottom free-for-all which does
    nobody any good in the long run. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-26 22:45:18'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "ethics?  given the $700-billion ethical breach on wall street,\r\ni think
    any competition over a banner on a website is trivial.\r\n\r\nbut whatever, your
    beef is not with me.\r\n\r\nremember, i'm laughing at everyone involved in this
    thing;\r\nand talk of \"evolved values\" is a real howler to me, sorry...          :+)\r\n\r\nif
    you _really_ want to get involved in \"education\", though,\r\ni'd suggest you
    start at the top, with google.  they're doing\r\na program where they invited
    artists to design their page...\r\nfor no pay.  and a number of artists said \"no
    pay?  no way!\"\r\nwhich i salute.  google just shrugged, because other artists\r\nthought
    that the \"exposure\" would be well worth it, to them.\r\nwhich i salute...  so
    google, one of the richest corporations\r\nin the world right now, got their art
    for free.  i salute that...\r\nat the same time i'm saluting everyone, i'm laughing
    at 'em.\r\n\r\nbecause to me, it's one big game of rock-paper-scissors...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-27 01:58:41'
- author:
    name: Flanney
    picture: 114454
  body: "bowerbird said:\r\n<strong>\r\n> No-budget operation?\r\n\r\nno budget for
    a banner, nope.\r\n</strong>\r\nIf you don't have a budget for a banner then don't
    have a banner. \r\n\r\n<strong>\r\n> They claim to have a departmental designer.\r\n\r\nyeah,
    but he refuses to do spec work,\r\nso he won\u2019t be entering the competition.\r\n</strong>\r\nFirst,
    not all designers are men.\r\n\r\nSecond, the point of having a departmental designer
    is so that when you need design work done, someone with intimate knowledge of
    your business is on hand to do it\u2014eliminating the need to hold a 'competition'
    like this.\r\n\r\nFinally, the departmental designer wouldn't refuse to enter
    the competition because the departmental designer would be getting paid for their
    time\u2014winning entry or not. Not spec work. Just work.\r\n\r\n<strong>\r\n>
    Not to mention that its a government operation.\r\n\r\nwell, that explains why
    they have no budget for a banner.\r\n</strong>\r\n\r\nIf you don't have a budget
    for a banner (or logo\u2014which is really what this competition is asking for)
    then don't have a banner (or logo). \r\n\r\nSo really\u2014bowerbird\u2014i dont
    think any of my sentences were really so stupid"
  created: '2009-06-27 03:22:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>any competition over a banner on a website is trivial.</em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    this is a trivial corner of the world, but it's our corner.\r\n\r\n<em>i\u2019m
    laughing at everyone</em>\r\n\r\nThe plebs are so amusing.\r\n\r\n<em>if you _really_
    want to get involved in \u201Ceducation\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nM. Henrion was being
    quite literal, he meant teaching students, which I do from time to time.\r\nIf
    anyone should take on the corporate crowdsourcers, it would be the AIGA, but that's
    not my organization, so I'm not familiar with the political feasibility of that."
  created: '2009-06-27 03:48:03'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "flanney said:\r\n>   If you don\u2019t have a budget for a banner \r\n>   then
    don\u2019t have a banner.\r\n\r\nlet them eat cake.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   the point of
    having a departmental designer \r\n>   is so that when you need design work done,
    \r\n>   someone with intimate knowledge of your business \r\n>   is on hand to
    do it\u2014eliminating the need to \r\n>   hold a \u2019competition\u2019 like
    this.\r\n\r\nblah blah blah.  your beef is not with me.\r\ndon't you get it?  i'm
    _laughing_ at you...\r\nand i'm laughing at you because you are\r\nso insecure
    about your \"professionalism\"\r\nthat you believe your beef is with _me_...\r\n\r\nthe
    more you continue, the more i laugh!\r\n\r\nthe fact of the matter is that there
    are\r\nall kinds of entities out there who are\r\ngetting people to _give_ work
    to them.\r\n\r\ndoes it suck that people are willing to\r\ndo _your_ job for absolutely
    nothing?\r\nwell, it sucks for _you_, that's for sure.\r\nespecially since your
    \"customers\" might\r\ndecide they like the amateur work better!\r\nbut hey, that's
    the way the ball bounces...\r\n\r\n\r\n>   Finally, the departmental designer
    \r\n>   wouldn\u2019t refuse to enter the competition \r\n>   because the departmental
    designer \r\n>   would be getting paid for their time\u2014\r\n>   winning entry
    or not. Not spec work. Just work.\r\n\r\nyour sense of humor is seriously lacking,
    dude.\r\nto the point where it actually becomes funny...\r\n\r\n\r\n>   If you
    don\u2019t have a budget for a banner \r\n>   (or logo\u2014which is really what
    this \r\n>   competition is asking for) \r\n>   then don\u2019t have a banner
    (or logo).\r\n\r\nand why should this entity \"go without\" something\r\nthat
    _someone_ is willing to _give_ to them freely?\r\n\r\nwhy?\r\n\r\nbecause _you_
    would rather have them _pay_you_?\r\n\r\nlook, this is all funny enough to me,
    even without\r\nyou giving me even _more_ reason to laugh at you!\r\n\r\nbesides,
    your bias here might be very shortsighted.\r\nperhaps this entity is simply trying
    to _engage_ their\r\ntarget audience by involving them in a little \"game\".\r\nmaybe
    they're attempting to whip up some interest.\r\nmy word, could anything be any
    more boring than\r\n\"government 2.0\"?  the thought of it makes me puke.\r\nbut
    remember, i'm not defending these cats at all...\r\ni am _laughing_ at them.  and
    i'm not defending the\r\npeople who submit work to this little \"competition\".\r\ni'm
    _laughing_ at them.  oh, and i'm laughing at you.\r\nand the more you persist,
    the funnier the joke gets...\r\n\r\n\r\n>   So really\u2014bowerbird\u2014i dont
    think any \r\n>   of my sentences were really so stupid\r\n\r\ni was not referring
    to you earlier.\r\n\r\nhowever, if you keep trying this hard,\r\nyou are showing
    some real potential...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-27 04:58:51'
- author:
    name: Flanney
    picture: 114454
  body: "bowerbird said:\r\n<cite>\r\nyour sense of humor is seriously lacking, dude.\r\nto
    the point where it actually becomes funny...\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nIf you mean my
    sense of humor is lacking because I didn't find any of your 'jokes' funny\r\n\r\nIt's
    because they aren't\r\n\r\nLaugh away buddy, laugh away\r\n\r\n* on a side note,
    i get your point about engaging their target audience in a game. If that were
    the point, fine, but they have been contacting designers directly asking for entries
    (a.k.a. asking for them to do work for free)\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-27 05:36:25'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Don't waste time arguing with it. It's not interested in arguments. It knows
    best, it's only trolling.
  created: '2009-06-27 07:29:08'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "flanney said:\r\n>   Laugh away buddy, laugh away\r\n\r\noh i will, don't
    worry...        :+)\r\n\r\nby the way, just so you (and nick) know, i'm a poet,
    and contests \r\nlike this are very common in my trivial corner of the world too...\r\n\r\nand
    i laugh at the contest-makers here in my corner too.\r\nand i laugh at the poets
    who submit hoping for exposure.\r\nand i laugh at the poets who cry \"foul\" at
    the whole thing.\r\n\r\nbecause, you know, it's _funny_, it really is...\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nspeaking
    of competitions, though, it is perhaps ironic that\r\ntoday, \"the netflix prize\"
    has finally gotten a qualified entry.\r\n\r\n>   http://www.netflixprize.com/leaderboard\r\n\r\ni
    don't know if you're familiar with this particular challenge,\r\nbut some 3 years
    back, netflix offered a million-dollar prize\r\nfor significant improvement on
    their recommendation engine.\r\n\r\n>   http://www.wired.com/epicenter/2009/06/winning-teams-join-to-qualify-for-1-million-netflix-prize/\r\n\r\nteams
    of statisticians have been on the attack ever since.\r\none team -- a merger of
    two previously-existing teams,\r\nboth of _them_ the result of prior mergers --
    has finally\r\nreached the threshold, triggering a \"last call\" for all teams\r\nto
    try to match or beat the leader.  if no team can do that,\r\nand the leader's
    results stand up against all netflix data,\r\nthe million-dollar prize will be
    awarded...\r\n\r\nconsidering that netflix has like 10 million subscribers,\r\nthe
    per-subscriber cost of this prize was 10 cents each.\r\nsince good recommendations
    result in happy subscribers,\r\nand better retention of their monthly fee, that's
    a good deal.\r\n\r\nthe nice part is that netflix only gets a nonexclusive license,\r\nso
    the inventors of the methodology can license it to others,\r\nwho will likely
    be motivated to pay much more for the system.\r\n\r\nanother nice thought is that
    the teams that came \"very close\"\r\nmight be motivated to turn their systems
    into \"open source\",\r\nmeaning that this technology could get a big boost very
    soon.\r\n\r\neventually, collaborative filtering systems like this one will\r\nbe
    able to pull out the \"needles\" from the huge \"haystack\"\r\nof digital content
    that is now growing by leaps and bounds.\r\n\r\nthink of collaborative filtering
    as a \"magnet\" to extract them,\r\ncustomizing the results to every person's
    _specific_ ratings...\r\n\r\nthe books you love, the movies you love, the music
    you love,\r\nthe art you love, the poetry you love, all delivered right to you,\r\neffortlessly,
    without you having to do any searching.  magical.\r\n\r\nthis ability for artists
    and audience to connect directly --\r\nwith absolutely no middlemen or \"marketing\"
    required --\r\nwill boost the fortune of artists to a tremendous degree...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-27 07:58:18'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>It\u2019s not interested in arguments. It knows best, it\u2019s only
    trolling.</em>\r\n\r\nSpot-on, paragraph. Typophiles, don't feed the troll."
  created: '2009-06-28 07:34:43'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "interesting.  dehumanization _and_ ad hominem, at the same time.\r\nwhich
    is a somewhat difficult combination to pull off successfully,\r\nkinda like an
    8/10-split in bowling...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-29 17:27:35'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Just a very short explanation, if I may: Is it a bird? Is it a cat? What
    is it's name?\r\nAnonymous posters cannot claim gender. Good bye."
  created: '2009-06-30 00:33:49'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: ">   What is it\u2019s name?\r\n\r\nimproper apostrophe.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   Anonymous
    posters cannot claim gender.\r\n\r\npseudonymous is not anonymous.\r\n\r\nespecially
    when you back it up with\r\n14 years at the same e-mail address.\r\n\r\nand i
    will \"claim\" whatever i want to \"claim\".\r\n\r\nnow get back on-topic.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\np.s.
    \ these attacks on me are as flimsy as\r\nthe balsa airplanes we played with as
    kids,\r\nso there's no need for me to complain, but\r\nare there any moderators
    here who observe\r\nthose people who consistently go off-topic?\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-30 09:22:17'
- author:
    name: aaronbell
    picture: 117132
  body: 'For someone making a point to comment on another''s grammar, you should really
    capitalize properly and not start your sentences with "and," but as you say, that
    is off-topic. '
  created: '2009-06-30 18:02:07'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "well, aaron, once someone has taken the thread off-topic,\r\nother people
    get a bit of expanded latitude in that regard.\r\n\r\nas for my capitalization,
    i think that it's easy to recognize\r\nthat it's a principled thing on my part,
    and not an \"error\".\r\nwhether you like it or not, it's obvious it's not \"accidental\".\r\n\r\nand
    as for starting a sentence with \"and\", i think it's fine.\r\n\r\nthe general
    rule i try to follow when it comes to \"errors\"\r\nis that -- if the person wouldn't
    change something once\r\ni've pointed it out (i.e., if _they_ don't consider it
    to be\r\na \"mistake\"), then i don't bother to point it out to them.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-30 18:19:47'
date: '2009-06-25 14:32:21'
title: A job too good to refuse

---
