---
author:
  name: fredcastle
body: X
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Do whatever you can for now and just keep refining your portfolio and looking
    for freelance work. Holding out for your dream job is just going to leave you
    with a big gap on your resume.
  created: '2009-06-29 04:24:30'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>my school has a job board with a bunch of jobs I don\u2019t want</em>\r\n\r\nWell,
    I hope you're searching on other job boards, too. Have you gone to any temp agencies?
    They might get you some freelance gigs. Meanwhile, James's advice is good.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    have you followed up on the people that gave you feedback for those mailers? How
    about the ones that didn't respond? Maybe you should call them, too.\r\n\r\nYou
    could also expand the list of studios and designers you'd like to work for, and
    send the new ones your mailer.\r\n\r\nYou could also request a few <a href=\"http://jobsearch.about.com/cs/infointerviews/a/infointerview.htm\">informational
    interviews</a>. \r\n"
  created: '2009-06-29 04:57:46'
- author:
    name: fredcastle
  body: "I have looked at other boards, but it seems that most of the listings aren't
    for junior designers.\r\n\r\nIs there a list somewhere on this forum that might
    give me more bards that I might have missed?"
  created: '2009-06-29 05:17:22'
- author:
    name: fredcastle
  body: "\r\nSo far, I had three people say they liked my work and they'd pass it
    around to people they knew, but I haven't heard anything from that.\r\n\r\nSome
    of the places I've mailed are really small studios, that I really wouldn't expect
    to have \"jobs,\" but you never know.  I know calling can't hurt, but if you send
    your resume, a booklet and a business card, and they don't respond, do you think
    calling would do any good?\r\n\r\nI haven't cold called anyone yet either."
  created: '2009-06-29 05:18:13'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Is there a list somewhere on this forum that might give me more bards
    that I might have missed?</cite>\r\n\r\nEven if you watch them all there really
    just aren\u2019t many junior jobs right now, especially if you don\u2019t have
    advanced web skills. Clients aren\u2019t paying as much, mid-level people are
    working for lower salaries, and because there are so many unemployed young designers
    many studios are using unpaid interns instead of junior designers/production staff.
    This isn\u2019t just confined to the design industry, it\u2019s a trend that hits
    most industries during recessions and until things get better there\u2019s not
    much you can do.\r\n\r\n<cite>I know calling can\u2019t hurt, but if you send
    your resume, a booklet and a business card, and they don\u2019t respond, do you
    think calling would do any good?</cite>\r\n\r\nIt probably won\u2019t hurt, but
    don\u2019t expect it to get you a job, and don\u2019t try to badger or pester
    your way into an interview. It\u2019s one thing to bug people for an interview
    doing good times, but right now some of those studios are probably having trouble
    staying solvent and don\u2019t need the distraction. Also, don\u2019t ever expect
    any kind of response from designers when you send a resume or apply for a job.
    Designers have a rather <em>different</em> sense business etiquette and don\u2019t
    respond to applicants in the ways that other businesses do."
  created: '2009-06-29 05:49:44'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Just get started.\r\n\r\nLive for the process.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2009-06-29 06:13:38'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "Getting a first job has always been difficult for a designer, but in these
    days it\u2019s even harder, as James stated. Be patient, but not so much: no matter
    what, you need to include some real stuff in your portfolio. Just don\u2019t forget
    it is a temporary thing and you are doing it just to prove to other people that
    you can do this job. Then you can look for a better place.\r\n\r\nGood luck!"
  created: '2009-06-29 06:30:40'
- author:
    name: fredcastle
  body: thanks for the tips!
  created: '2009-06-29 16:04:21'
- author:
    name: fredcastle
  body: if there's a list of job boards out there, shout.
  created: '2009-06-29 18:14:41'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I've hit that point for the first time in my life. I'll likely be taking
    the first offer that comes along (alas, we need insurance more than anything).\r\n\r\nOf
    course, I'm also at the point in my career where I'm thinking this isn't a career
    I particularity enjoy anymore, but that's a different issue... ;)\r\n\r\nAnyways,
    to answer your question:\r\n\r\n - if you need money, in this market, yea, take
    what you can get\r\n\r\n - if you don't need the money, then be at least a little
    picky. Try to find a gig that will either improve your technical skills or your
    portfolio. "
  created: '2009-06-29 19:57:58'
- author:
    name: paul.halupka
    picture: 113075
  body: "Trolling Craigslist under \"Creative\" and \"Creative Gigs\" might work,
    but I've found it to be a complete waste of time. Lots of garbage, lots of requests
    for ludicrously cheap or free work. Insulting, often. However, I may be skipping
    over a lot of jobs that you may be interested in as a Junior designer, just to
    get connected.\r\n\r\nOn that note, I will say that networking via AIGA events
    can be fruitful. Hand out business cards, make a good impression, follow up with
    an email. Tap into your old teachers. Friends of friends always seems to end up
    as the best resource for me.\r\n\r\nPlacement agencies: Creative Circle, Aquent,
    etc.\r\nDepends on what city you live in. There will also be smaller talent agencies.\r\n\r\nJob
    lists: Craigslist, Coroflot, AIGA Design Jobs\r\nThese are being applied to by
    the hundreds, no doubt. But worth keeping an eye on as you can network and apply
    specifically for junior positions.\r\n\r\nIt's rough out there. Good luck!"
  created: '2009-06-29 19:58:59'
- author:
    name: fredcastle
  body: Thanks again.  I'm in NYC by the way.
  created: '2009-06-29 20:28:51'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "NY placement agencies (in no particular order): \r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.cnsny.com/\">CNS</a>\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.rgarecruiting.com/rga/\">Roz Goldfarb Associates</a>\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.updategraphics.com/home.asp\">Update Graphics</a>\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.cti-group.com/graphics.htm\">CTI Graphics</a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.creativecircle.com/\">Creative
    Circle</a>\r\n\r\n...Just a few that I am able to remember off the top of my head.\r\n\r\nJob
    Boards: Creative Hotlist, Mediabistro. \r\n\r\nPut your r\xE9sum\xE9 on Monster,
    and create a portfolio on Coroflot. Doing so won't cost you any money! (Mediabistro
    and Creative Hotlist charge you for putting up a portfolio on their sites.)\r\n\r\nIt's
    been said before, but looking for a job is a full-time job. Be proactive about
    it. These are tough times, so you might have to be less picky, as aluminum says.
    The important thing is to get some real-world work in your portfolio, and a list
    of clients or employers on your r\xE9sum\xE9. Best of luck!"
  created: '2009-06-29 20:49:19'
- author:
    name: anhng
  body: "From my personal experience. Do whatever job to keep you alive and stay survive.
    In the meantime, keep learning the new skill, dreamwaver, flash, flex, as3 ...
    etc ... build up your portfolio with better work, make yourself marketable.\r\n\r\nI
    know this is very depressing. At one point, I was thinking about change major
    to nursing, much better pay, and I could get a job right away after grad, in 2
    years. But I thought, what the hell, I'll work at a restaurant to keep me survive
    and keep doing what I love to do.\r\n\r\nhehehhehe. stay positive and creative
    ;)"
  created: '2009-06-29 22:07:41'
- author:
    name: iffy
    picture: 113881
  body: Some experience is never going to be bad experience. I remember that feeling
    of expecting the world coming out of college but it's not realistic. Just try
    to get a design job, it doesn't have to be your dream job right now.
  created: '2009-06-30 13:31:37'
- author:
    name: Gus Winterbottom
  body: '"It was only a summer job" is one of the saddest things I hear from the greybeards
    around here (myself included). Somehow, some stuff happened and they''re still
    around twenty years later requesting Boys of Summer on the oldies station. If
    you do take an interim job, don''t give any hostages to fortune -- marriage, children,
    real estate -- or you might not be able to move on when you want to.'
  created: '2009-06-30 20:53:26'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: I think it was Wynton Marsalis whose father told him that if he wanted to
    make it in jazz, be sure had had nothing to fall back on, or he would fall back.
  created: '2009-06-30 20:56:27'
- author:
    name: David Sudweeks
    picture: 112594
  body: "Fred,\r\nMy advice to you is try something really different from what you're
    trying. When I was in your shoes not so many years ago that meant emptying most
    of the contents of my portfolio, introducing several pieces of self-initiated
    work and spending an evening writing a cover letter that represented me. (e.g.
    Instead of saying I was fun to work with and smart, I said something funny, and
    smart.) Essentially all the initial interest I got from both places I've since
    worked was due to carefully-written cover letters.\r\nBut you asked if you should
    take a crappy job in the meantime. Sure; but take a crappy design job and learn
    something there."
  created: '2009-06-30 23:48:42'
- author:
    name: idletime
    picture: 117221
  body: "There are definitely things you can learn from a not-so-perfect job:\r\n-
    Communicating with bosses and clients\r\n- Presenting your ideas to an audience
    of non-designers\r\n- Compromising (or NOT compromising, gracefully)\r\n- Dealing
    with real-world deadlines and time management\r\n- How a business runs, and how
    design relates to that business model (ideas you can steal when you run your own
    business or freelance practice)\r\n\r\nI learned the above at my first few \"crappy\"
    jobs; I did NOT learn these skills at school, despite everyone's best intentions!\r\nGood
    luck."
  created: '2009-07-01 01:30:22'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "old jazz joke:\r\n\r\nWhat the difference between a jazz musician and a pizza?\r\nA
    pizza can feed a family of four.\r\n\r\nBad. I know.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2009-07-01 03:23:36'
- author:
    name: Kirs10
  body: Since it sounds like you don't have the luxury of waiting out a perfect job,
    take the "crappy" one. There have been many good suggestions as to what to try
    to gain from the experience, also you never know what connections you may make
    there. The economy is tough and the competition is fierce right now. I've been
    looking for full-time work since my division closed around the holidays and I
    have gotten very little response to my resume and when I have gotten to the next
    step, I've been told that they received anywhere between 500-800 submissions.
    There just isn't much out there and having the opportunity to choose between jobs
    is really rare. One person on Craig's list is even offering $700 to whoever can
    help him/her land a graphic design job. I'm in the tri-state area, if I hear of
    anything entry level I'll pass it along. Best of luck to you.
  created: '2009-07-01 19:56:53'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: "I recently got my first professional gig after graduation--well, 13 months
    after graduation. Now my first paychecks are going to the parents, since I didn't
    get any sort of job over that whole time. I just painted the house and did lawn
    work--it was pretty much an allowance. \r\n\r\nNow i have a job that pays really
    well, in the 4th hardest hit town/city in America. Go figure. I think you DO need
    to mail, not email, and know who you're sending to. You DO need to call at a time
    you stated in your cover letter. It shows you really are interested, and that
    you want a job, and aren't just expecting one to land in your hands.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    for all the people I mailed, interviews I went to (that would have hired if it
    weren't for current economic conditions), it was the fact that I was on monster.com
    that got me a job. GO FIGURE! \r\n\r\nAnd though I don't want to say that such
    things will pan out, I can say that this particular employer wasn't posting an
    open job, just browsing applicants at their leisure--so it may be worth setting
    yourself up on those things, and maybe that good job will come around.\r\n\r\nIn
    the meantime, take a crappy job so you can have yourself some kind of insurance,
    or at least money to make life seem worthwhile until that next job!"
  created: '2009-07-01 20:23:35'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "What ever you do, avoid the sign industry like the plague. \r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n\r\n[[http://www.thefontry.com|<em>...from
    the Fontry </em>]]"
  created: '2009-07-01 22:58:23'
- author:
    name: EricFromPTown
    picture: 113053
  body: "phrostbyte,\r\n\r\nI'm in a similar situation as fredcastle; looking for
    a design job, and willing to take work that is not the most glamorous. I was actually
    thinking about the sign industry because it seems like most signs these days need
    a little more typographic attention. Why avoid it like the plague? \r\n\r\n-Eric
    MacLeod\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-02 20:29:36'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Why avoid it like the plague?</cite>\r\n\r\nBad pay, clients who don\u2019t
    care what you think and just want their name in Arial at the largest size possible
    and won\u2019t pay for anything else, and you end up spending a lot of time learning
    proprietary software skills that are useless outside of sign shops. Seriously,
    just read the job descriptions when sign shops are hiring and you\u2019ll be scared
    off."
  created: '2009-07-02 20:49:48'
- author:
    name: Ed_Aranda
    picture: 117416
  body: I spent my first 8 months after graduation working at Wilson's Leather in
    the mall. When I decided I couldn't take it anymore I spent a week brushing up
    on Dreamweaver and Fireworks and designing my online portfolio/resume. That website
    ended up being the difference in whether I got an interview. Just stay passionate
    about what you do and keep pushing yourself to learn more skills and refine the
    ones you have in the meantime.
  created: '2009-07-02 22:44:01'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "Eric,\r\n\r\nWhat James says is largely true to a degree. The profit margin
    isn't as good as other segments of the industry. The deadlines are shorter because
    production time isn't usually properly factored in. And, signs are generally the
    last thing that a business considers, by which time the money is gone. That said,
    personally, I think every designer that might design a sign should work in a sign
    shop, at least for a few months. It would give them a better feel for the media
    and what is possible. \r\n\r\nBut, the biggest problem comes later when you are
    ready to move on in your career. Every other segment of the design industry looks
    at sign makers as just above dog catchers or garbage men. It doesn't matter how
    good you are or what you have done, as soon as you say signs you are branded as
    incompetant. It may be different if you work for some of the few high end sign
    shops that get the national accounts.\r\n \r\nMy personal exerience, I have established
    sign standards for multi-million dollar organizations. I have overseen the designs
    and fabrication for one project with more pieces of art in three weeks than most
    design operations do in six months. I've gone head to head with people worth millions
    so that they would get good product even above their objections. \r\n\r\nI can't
    even get an interview in an entry level position.\r\n\r\nI might not be the best
    person to listen to on the subject because I'm a little bitter...\r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n\r\n[[http://www.thefontry.com|<em>...from
    the Fontry </em>]]"
  created: '2009-07-02 23:11:23'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Now that I think about it, I\u2019m starting to understand why I never seen
    signage and wayfinding design jobs advertised."
  created: '2009-07-02 23:39:35'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "edited\r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n\r\n[[http://www.thefontry.com|<em>...from
    the Fontry </em>]]"
  created: '2009-07-03 01:50:06'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Wayfinding jobs are sent out via RFPs from various organizations all the
    time. If you are interested in the field you should join SEGD.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.segd.org/#/home.html\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-05 16:00:52'
- author:
    name: fredcastle
  body: "ANY RECOMDATIONS FOR CALLING A PLACE YOU DIDN'T GET AN E-MAIL BACK FROM?\r\n\r\nI
    took your comments to heart, and changed my approach a little.\r\n\r\nI sent a
    nice package that should have arrived last Wed / Thurs.  Haven't got a response,
    thinking I should call!"
  created: '2009-07-12 23:26:36'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Call them, but don\u2019t expect anything to come of it. There\u2019s a good
    chance that they can\u2019t afford to hire anyone and might have just filed it
    away or not even looked at it. Understand that you are one of dozens, if not hundreds,
    of unemployed design school grads who are sending them portfolios. It\u2019s not
    like design firms have money to pay people to look through all of the portfolios
    they\u2019re getting right now."
  created: '2009-07-12 23:30:41'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "Calling back is a key point of the process. Your portfolio would have to
    be really amazing for it to generate a call to you.\r\n\r\nBe polite in the call:
    \"I sent out xxxx on xxxx and just wanted to see if you got it. Would you like
    me to drop by and discuss it with you?\"\r\n\r\nBasically, just sending out a
    flood of resumes/portfolios means little to a hiring officer. Worse if it was
    sent without first calling to get the name of the person who does the hiring (the
    receptionist can generally give you that info).  By phoning you are showing that
    you do have a clue on how business works, and a bit of initiative."
  created: '2009-07-13 13:38:43'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Some advice I read in a book: When you send in your r\xE9sum\xE9, samples,
    or mailer, close your cover letter by requesting an interview and saying that
    you will follow up in two weeks' time. Then, if they don't call you up during
    those two weeks, do what you said in your letter and call them up (and always
    be polite, as Don McCahill says above)."
  created: '2009-07-13 16:18:46'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "It is that it\u2019s easier to call people you\u2019ve met in person so that
    you\u2019re not just a stranger. You can\u2019t meet everybody, but doing some
    volunteer work on design projects and attending professional meetings will allow
    you to meet some people, and you can work your photo into the cover of your portfolio
    they might recognize you when they see it."
  created: '2009-07-13 18:53:00'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: Why are you deleting all your posts?
  created: '2010-04-19 15:12:42'
date: '2009-06-29 03:41:35'
title: X

---
