---
author:
  name: billdavis
  picture: 109965
body: "Following [[http://blog.fontembedding.com/post/2009/06/29/Revised-Web-Fonts-Proposal.aspx|our
  proposal]] for a Web specific OpenType-based font format (which we named OTW), we
  received a lot of feedback from type designers, web designers and publishers. Most
  of the feedback was positive. People saw that differentiating web fonts from desktop
  fonts, and including licensing information in the font file was a step in the right
  direction. \r\n\r\nMoving the plan forward, we felt that with the support of browser
  makers we could have OTW standardized within two years, and have the majority of
  installed browsers supporting it within five to six years, based on current browser
  upgrade rates. \r\n\r\nHowever, web designers want to use commercial fonts today.
  They don\u2019t want to wait five or six years. This is evident from the use of
  Flash-based solutions, and the interest in commercial services like TypeKit. So
  we took a step back and asked ourselves what can we do to accelerate the rate of
  adoption? With this in mind we decided to take another look at EOT. \r\n\r\nMicrosoft\u2019s
  EOT format has a large installed base and is supported in every version of Internet
  Explorer since IE version 4. And as IE users are typically the slowest to upgrade,
  adding EOT support to other browsers would provide a quicker adoption of a single
  web font standard because the other browsers have much faster upgrade rates. However,
  we know that the other browser makers don\u2019t like EOT because it includes URL
  binding, proprietary compression and gives Microsoft a head-start. \r\n\r\nWith
  this in mind we propose \u201CEOT Lite\u201D. Essentially EOT minus URL binding
  and compression, but with the addition of licensing information. The benefits are
  obvious, EOT Lite fonts will work with IE4 and above, can be easily supported in
  other browsers, and with their faster upgrade rates, we could see 90% of installed
  browsers supporting the format within a year. EOT Lite would still have the benefits
  of OTW: a font file that is differentiated from desktop fonts and containing license
  information.\r\n\r\nIn summary, and as a result of a significant dialogue with many
  stakeholders, we believe EOT Lite is the right solution for web fonts. We encourage
  everyone to support this solution with us.\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: benjohnson
  body: "Thank you for sharing this post here!!!! \r\n\r\nhttp://www.myntra.com/\r\n"
  created: '2015-04-21 09:49:40'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\nHow will your EOT Lite handle OT fonts with PS outlines?"
  created: '2009-06-29 21:01:21'
- author:
    name: billdavis
    picture: 109965
  body: "James - good question! I assume \"Yes\" is the answer you are hoping for?
    \r\n\r\nThe current public EOT specification is at [[http://www.w3.org/Submission/EOT/]].
    There is nothing in there to prohibit CFF being stored in the FontData section.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-29 22:00:52'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>The benefits are obvious, EOT Lite fonts will work with IE4 and above,
    can be easily supported in other browsers, and with their faster upgrade rates,
    we could see 90% of installed browsers supporting the format within a year.</cite>\r\n\r\nDoes
    that mean that the non-Microsoft web browser programmers are willing to implement
    EOT Lite regardless of their suspicions about Microsoft standards, DRM, etc? "
  created: '2009-06-29 22:10:08'
- author:
    name: outrasfontes
    picture: 112120
  body: "<cite>we could see 90% of installed browsers supporting the format within
    a year.</cite>\r\n\r\nHave the other browser makers already been heard about that?
    I mean, who (beyond Microsoft, of couse) is interested in implementing a support
    for this format in the next browser versions? Once again, I think it will be crucial
    for the success or fail of any format.\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-29 22:51:30'
- author:
    name: billdavis
    picture: 109965
  body: "We can't speak for all browser programmers, but we believe most developers
    would be willing to implement a webfonts solution that:\r\n\r\n1) provides web
    designers and developers access to the fonts they are clamoring for\r\n\r\n2)
    does so without having to wait years for it to be supported in all browsers\r\n\r\n3)
    does so in a format that major commercial font developers support\r\n\r\n4) does
    so without JavaScript, Flash or other hacks\r\n\r\nWe believe EOT Lite is that
    solution.\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-29 23:00:25'
- author:
    name: jmvanderpol
    picture: 116854
  body: "<em>The benefits are obvious, EOT Lite fonts will work with IE4 and above,
    can be easily supported in other browsers, and with their faster upgrade rates,
    we could see 90% of installed browsers supporting the format within a year. EOT
    Lite would still have the benefits of OTW: a font file that is differentiated
    from desktop fonts and containing license information.</em>\r\n\r\nWhile I applaud
    & dream of that kind of adoption rate. How open is the EOT format? Can Microsoft
    start making selfish changes that will hurt other adopters down the line, one
    adoption has reached critical mass? I feel that is really the question needing
    answered. I really don't feel Mozilla/Opera/Google will jump onto a standard Microsoft
    controls given the track record of the company in the past (regarding to standards). "
  created: '2009-06-29 23:49:52'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: I know there will definitely be an OS vs. MS challenge there. But fingers
    crossed...
  created: '2009-06-30 01:20:28'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: Oh. Ummm... OK. Here's hoping that Mozilla and/or Opera are willing to add
    EOT lite support...
  created: '2009-06-30 02:53:34'
- author:
    name: jdaggett
  body: "The t2embed library used to support embedded font usage on Windows does not
    support CFF fonts, so no version of IE will load them.\r\n\r\nWhat exactly is
    the \"licensing information\" that you describe?  How do you expect it to be used?
    \ Why do you need a new format for licensing information when the license record
    in the name table already exists?"
  created: '2009-06-30 03:09:26'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "I'm a little foggy on how previous versions of IE will, with seeming magic,
    ignore some of the restrictions built into EOT. If this is the case, and it has
    intrinsic advantages, why doesn't IE support this new lite format already?\r\nAnd
    a lack of support for CFF fonts - as John Daggett points out - is so backwards-looking
    that I have trouble NOT seeing it as a deal-breaker.\r\nI echo his concerns and
    questions.\r\nI'm not saying this is a fudge-job interim solution, but it kind
    of looks that way at first glance.\r\nIt also ignores compression, even as an
    optional feature.\r\n\r\nI think there is patience (albeit limited) among designers
    and developers as long as it means a dependable, interoperable, long-term solution
    that isn't going to leave us with the need for yet another format five years down
    the road.\r\nIMHO.\r\n\r\nI'd like to hear more before giving any firm feedback.\r\n "
  created: '2009-06-30 05:18:51'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "<cite> lack of support for CFF fonts</cite>\r\n\r\nThe EOT *format* supports
    CFF OT just fine. But neither WEFT nor IE have yet done so. Unfortunately, nothing
    anyone does is going to magically get CFF support into old versions of IE. Standardizing
    on some stripped down EOT gives an option for folks who want to get web fonts
    working today, and certainly doesn't preclude supporting OT CFF as well.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-06-30 15:43:01'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Wouldnt CFF fonts look like garbage on the web, since they lack TT hinting?
    As web fonts take off, is it worth it to try and convince designers to make TTF-flavored
    OT, with delta hints?
  created: '2009-06-30 17:59:13'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Wouldnt CFF fonts look like garbage on the web, since they lack TT
    hinting?</cite>\r\n\r\nThat will depend on the font and operating system. Lighter
    weights of sans fonts work pretty well on Mac OS, but bold weights render poorly
    at small sizes. Hinting will be the next big stumbling block for web fonts: designers
    are going to go up in arms when they realize how bad the fonts look and blame
    font designers, but they won\u2019t want to pay for well-hinted screen fonts because
    so few exist that there\u2019s really no baseline for what they should cost. On
    the upside, I think many experienced web designers learned to think about legibility
    issues when nobody could read all those eight-pixel bitmap fonts that were hot
    in Flash sites a few years back, so hopefully we won\u2019t have to live through
    two years of godawful unhinted serif faces."
  created: '2009-06-30 18:08:34'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: No baseline? Foundries large (and a few small ones, too) have been licensing
    well-hinted fonts to corporate clients for office use for like a decade, if not
    longer. And if you want to know how cheap a well-hinted font license can be, look
    no further than that recent Spiekermann...
  created: '2009-06-30 18:20:18'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Foundries large (and a few small ones, too) have been licensing well-hinted
    fonts to corporate clients for office use for like a decade, if not longer.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    was referring to retail fonts. Corporate licensing pricing is not especially applicable
    to the many small jobs that have a total budget much smaller than the cost of
    a well-hinted corporate font license.\r\n\r\n<cite>Look no further than that recent
    Spiekermann...</cite>\r\n\r\nBut how many type designers sell enough fonts to
    recoup the costs of TrueType hinting a four-weight family for $80?"
  created: '2009-06-30 18:33:08'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "It isn't just corporate sales. Monotype tt fonts with esq hinting and Linotype
    tt fonts with xsf hinting are just slightly more expensive than their non-hinted
    versions iirc. I'm sure that these aren't the only instances. \r\n\r\nAs for the
    pricing sinking issue and distributors' prices... Well, not every font that could
    be used on the web should be used on the web. Especially for smaller text. "
  created: '2009-06-30 18:46:30'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "<cite>Wouldnt CFF fonts look like garbage on the web, since they lack TT
    hinting?</cite>\r\n\r\nOn Mac OS using the system rasterizer, hinting is irrelevant
    or nearly so.\r\n\r\nClearType is capable of working very nicely with CFF OpenType,
    as demonstrated by the WPF rasterizer for CFF. But this is hardly mainstream,
    I guess.\r\n\r\n<cite>As web fonts take off, is it worth it to try and convince
    designers to make TTF-flavored OT, with delta hints?</cite>\r\n\r\nDelta hints
    are not of much interest for web fonts any more, because most are ignored by ClearType,
    and all are irgnored by the Mac OS rasterizer. At least, that's my impression.
    (With the possible exception in ClearType of deltas on Y-direction CVTs rather
    than directly on points, which could increase x-height at some key sizes or the
    like.)\r\n\r\nI could be mistaken about the degree of uselessness of delta hints,
    and am open to being corrected.\r\n\r\nNote also that regular GDI ClearType is
    turned on in IE 6 and higher, even when not on at the OS level. \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-07-01 06:55:20'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: Will browsers support some OpenType features too?
  created: '2009-07-01 07:31:31'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: '@ray: Yes, there is on going current discussion of how to support features
    in CSS3 :-)'
  created: '2009-07-01 10:35:13'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I could be mistaken about the degree of uselessness of delta hints, and
    am open to being corrected.\r\n\r\nBoth Windows and Mac ignore x hints but not
    y. Delta instructions are ignored on the Mac. Windows only ignores them if they
    are 'out of line.'  But since deltas can be used in the places other than glyph
    instructions and in ways other than to disturb the priceless rendering of ClearType,
    they are neither totally useless nor completely ignored. \r\n\r\nBoth of these
    OS have fallen qualitatively behind places like Pre and soon, some other vendors
    who use FreeType. \r\n\r\n>Wouldnt CFF fonts look like garbage on the web, since
    they lack TT hinting?\r\nMost will. But the true garbage time comes when people
    start using fonts that are not as robust as the few they have now, i.e. hints
    wouldn't even help. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-01 11:27:11'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: '@dberlow: <em>Both of these OS have fallen qualitatively behind places like
    Pre and soon, some other vendors who use FreeType.</em> - er, are you saying that
    FreeType is the best quality renderer?'
  created: '2009-07-01 19:54:36'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I think Dave is saying that FreeType is going to soon outpace the OS vendors.
    Certainly it was well behind the last time I saw it, but these things change.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-07-01 22:15:42'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Both of these OS have fallen qualitatively behind places like Pre and
    soon, some other vendors who use FreeType.</cite>\r\n\r\nCan we expect FreeType
    to exceed the quality of the OS Rendering on all LCD screens in the near future
    or is the rendering quality due to customizing FreeType to work well with the
    \ specific devices?"
  created: '2009-07-01 22:35:30'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@thomas\r\n><em>\"The EOT *format* supports CFF OT just fine. But neither
    WEFT nor IE have yet done so. Unfortunately, nothing anyone does is going to magically
    get CFF support into old versions of IE. Standardizing on some stripped down EOT
    gives an option for folks who want to get web fonts working today, and certainly
    doesn\u2019t preclude supporting OT CFF as well.\"</em>\r\n\r\nI'm still not getting
    it. At least not easily. And if I'm not, then I'm assuming a similar reaction
    from others like me who understand browsers, standards, but are not overly technical
    with regards to the subtleties and differences betweeen font formats.\r\nWhat
    I'm hearing is: \"EOT Lite will give us backward compatibility but yet in some
    ways it won't.\"\r\nHuh?\r\n\r\n@Billdavis or anybody: Can you clear up this confusion?"
  created: '2009-07-02 00:47:57'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: '@tphinney: I thought he might be saying that FreeType had ALREADY outpaced
    them, which would be news to me! :) I think James has the right idea though; since
    possible to customize FreeType to work well with specific devices, so its likely
    that "freetype is highest quality" will become a kind of urban legend...'
  created: '2009-07-02 01:00:39'
- author:
    name: cfynn
    picture: 112122
  body: "With the release of Firefox 3.5, don't we effectively already have font linking/embedding,
    since every major browser now has some kind of support? - All it requires is a
    couple of lines of code to determine whether the browser is IE or other: if so
    use EOT font, otherwise use TTF/OTF. [Either do this yourself or get a service
    like <em>TypeKit</em> to do it for you]. \r\n\r\nHaven't we lost the plot? Shouldn't
    we be talking about the licensing model not the format? In the long run, is any
    web-only font format going to be any more effective at \"protecting\" fonts than
    various digital audio formats have been at \"protecting\" music? If there was
    going to be a special font format as standard for the web, shouldn't that have
    been sorted out *years* ago? \r\n\r\nUnlicensed use of fonts on the internet should
    be *far* easier to police than unlicensed use of fonts in printed publications
    as you can devise a bot to search for them. Isn't it going to be much easier to
    search for and find sites using your fonts (legally or illegally) where the original
    un-obfuscated, un-subsetted fonts are being used? \r\n\r\nNo reputable commercial
    site is going to use unlicensed fonts - and those are the people who will actually
    pay for fonts. Won't the increased licensing fees for use of fonts on these sites
    far outweigh decreased sales (if any) from increased piracy?\r\n\r\n- C  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-02 08:53:52'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "cflynn: <em>\"Won\u2019t the increased licensing fees for use of fonts on
    these sites far outweigh decreased sales (if any) from increased piracy?\"</em>
    I don't think so, no, and it seems almost no one does."
  created: '2009-07-02 09:19:47'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Richard Fink -- <cite>I\u2019m still not getting it.</cite>\r\n\r\nEOT, in
    the most simple case, is nothing but a wrapper around a TTF/OTF, more exactly
    a few header data which are followed by the actual TTF/OTF font data. (Font data
    <em>can</em> be compressed, or <em>can</em> be modestly obfuscated, but do not
    need to. Actually it would be easier especially for smaller foundries to do without
    these two options and just add the header.)\r\nThat certain browsers only support
    one flavor but not the other is hard to understand. If an issue, it is a browser
    issue rather than a font format issue. As simple as that.\r\n\r\nChristopher Fynn
    -- <cite>Haven\u2019t we lost the plot?</cite>\r\n\r\nYes.\r\nSince @font-face
    is not heavily used yet (is it used at all), it is not too late to agree on supporting
    only EOT rather than also TTF/OTF. It is be a clean solution, and with information
    given in the EOT header, services like TypeKit were mostly superfluous.\r\nDiscussions
    -- including on www-style and www-font list -- do not make any sense to me. The
    funny thing is that my own position has changed thanks to said discussions. Before,
    I was all for plain TTF/OTF. But web guys' \"for free\" and \"-anti\" ideology
    and fabricated arguments showed me how they tick.\r\nThe point is that EOT's header
    info expressly states who may use the font (by URL info as well as by EOT \"format\"
    itself which tells a OS \"that's not for you\") -- which additional information
    prevents abuse in the first place. No need for policing which I am not particularly
    fond of.\r\n\r\nIn so far, I welcome the new proposal."
  created: '2009-07-02 09:51:34'
- author:
    name: cfynn
    picture: 112122
  body: "Karsten Luecke \u2014 <em>Since @font-face is not heavily used yet (is it
    used at all), it is not too late to agree on supporting only EOT rather than also
    TTF/OTF.</em>\r\n\r\nAre Safari, Opera, Mozilla going to <em>remove</em> support
    for TTF/OTF? \u2014 <em>hardly seems likely.</em>\r\n\r\nMozilla says patented
    technology used in EOT is <em>\"a show stopper\"</em>. Are the patent holders
    concerned going to free these patents \u2014 or Mozilla and other like minded
    parties going to change their minds?  \u2014 <em>hardly seems likely.</em>\r\n\r\nEventually
    won't someone with a substantial library of fonts decide to license their fonts
    for web use in both TTF & EOT formats? There are one or two companies with large
    clone libraries I can think of that might see this as worth their while - and,
    in the short term at least, the first ones to jump could make substantial sales.
    \r\n \r\nEither that, or a service like TypeKit might buy up or license such a
    font library. \r\n\r\n- C"
  created: '2009-07-02 10:26:55'
- author:
    name: cfynn
    picture: 112122
  body: "me \u2014  <em>\u201CWon\u2019t the increased licensing fees for use of fonts
    on these sites far outweigh decreased sales (if any) from increased piracy?\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nabattis
    \u2014  <em>\"I don\u2019t think so, no, and it seems almost no one does.\"</em>\r\n\r\nSince
    the advent of the <code>alt.fonts.binary</code> group on Usenet, and now with
    peer-to-peer file sharing, unlicensed copies of almost every digital font have
    been easy enough for people to obtain without paying for them. On the internet
    at least, substantial font piracy may be older than music piracy. It's hard to
    imagine how TTF / OTF embedding could make the situation substantially any worse.
    \ \r\n\r\nPeople who now pay for commercial fonts will continue to pay for them.
    Those who don't want to pay for commercial fonts, and think they can get away
    using them without paying, will continue to do so - though using an unlicensed
    font on a web site would be pretty stupid since it is so likely you'll get found
    out. A few people will link/embed only FOSS fonts - and that number may grow if
    commercial vendors continue not to license fonts for web use, or if licensing
    fees are felt to be too high.\r\n\r\n- C        \r\n"
  created: '2009-07-02 11:15:07'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Since @font-face is not heavily used yet (is it used at all), it is not
    too late to agree on supporting only EOT rather than also TTF/OTF\r\n\r\nDo you
    actually think there is any way the OT format will be REMOVED by the W3C recommendation?
    I laugh at this ridiculous notion. \r\n\r\nLaudable thoughts on this topic can
    only start with an addition to the OT format. \r\n\r\n>since possible to customize
    FreeType to work well with specific devices, so its likely that \u201Cfreetype
    is highest quality\u201D will become a kind of urban legend...\r\n\r\nReword...since
    it is possible to customize FreeType to work well with specific fonts... and I
    don't live in a city.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-07-02 11:18:03'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "C.F. -- <cite>Mozilla says patented technology used in EOT is \"a show stopper\".</cite>\r\n\r\nAccording
    Mr Levantovsky this is a non-argument, see his post of 25.6.2009 to the www-style
    list.\r\n\r\nC.F. -- <cite>Are Safari, Opera, Mozilla going to remove support
    for TTF/OTF? \u2014 hardly seems likely.</cite>\r\nD.B. -- <cite>Do you actually
    think there is any way the OT format will be REMOVED by the W3C recommendation?
    I laugh at this ridiculous notion.</cite>\r\n\r\nAdmitted.\r\n\r\nD.B. -- <cite>Laudable
    thoughts on this topic can only start with an addition to the OT format.</cite>\r\n\r\nIf
    normal TT/OT fonts are supported too, then <em>additional</em> tables/data or
    even <em>additional</em> formats/wrappers are nothing but small print that nobody
    reads."
  created: '2009-07-02 12:38:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "@Christopher Fynn \u2014 <em>Shouldn\u2019t we be talking about the licensing
    model not the format?</em>\r\n\r\nI want to see a web font format that does not
    allow anyone with a browser to easily download a free copy of one of my fonts
    used in a web site. \r\nAlthough I may be able to track unauthorized use online,
    what particularly concerns me is offline usage, which is presently the bulk of
    my market.\r\n\r\nI will aim to publish each of my typefaces in two formats: EOT
    (or OTW, .wtf, or whatever) and .otf, with different price points, licenses, and
    features--each addressing its own tranche."
  created: '2009-07-02 19:48:21'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I want to see a web font format that does not allow anyone with a browser
    to easily download a free copy of one of my fonts used in a web site.\"\r\n\r\nWell,
    I don't think we're going to be able to reinvent the web. \r\n\r\nAlas, that's
    a basic functionality of the web. We download code, images, text, and then it's
    stored on our machine and presented to us in the browser.\r\n\r\nI concede that
    there are ways to make files harder to re-use, but I'm still not understanding
    why we think this is a concern, as the font files are already easily downloadable
    by those that want in completely unencumbered original formats. \r\n\r\nAnyone
    that would be willing to spend the time fishing files out of their browser's cache
    would surely be the type of person that already knows how to find the original
    font files easily anyways, no?"
  created: '2009-07-02 19:57:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Darrel, this was addressed by Ray Larabie in Bill's previous thread.
  created: '2009-07-02 22:42:22'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Nick, have a link?\r\n\r\nI know there is concern about a lack of attribution
    in that when using @font-face there is no indication of copyright or notice of
    an EULA with the font being used. I understand that argument, though I'm not sure
    if that's the one you are referring to. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-02 23:07:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: http://www.typophile.com/node/58922
  created: '2009-07-03 06:58:08'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "If I understand what Ray is saying, to paraphrase, being able to grab a font
    via @font-face may be 'too easy' in that people won't realize it's illegal to
    use the font elsewhere. \r\n\r\nI'm not convinced, though, that people that would
    think it's 'so easy it must be legal' would have been paying customers of that
    typeface otherwise.\r\n\r\nI guess it boils down to the old issue of how many
    paying customers would one gain vs. how many would one lose. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-03 13:24:21'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "I don't know if this is helpful as bricks/mortar vs virtual and often not
    fair analogies: Let's say you two tool stores.\r\n\r\nTool store A has only one
    employee, an inattentive cashier with poor eyesight. The tools have price tags
    on them.\r\n\r\nTool store B doesn't use price tags and they leave all the tools
    out on the sidewalk.\r\n\r\nIt's fairly easy to steal from store A but only certain
    kinds of people would do that. They would use the tools with the full knowledge
    that they are stolen tools. In this example, the \r\n\r\nIt's just as easy to
    pick up tools from the sidewalk in front of Store B. Some people would assume
    that they're supposed to be free. There's no price tag and they're just sitting
    there. They might assume that it's okay to use those tools since they're not stolen
    . . . they were sort of found. Some people would assume the unmarked sidewalk
    tools belong to a store, some wouldn't.\r\n\r\nThe tools are fonts. The price
    tag is the EULA. I'm not saying piracy and stealing are the same thing; they're
    not. If somebody deliberaately took an drill from Store A without paying, we'd
    call them a shoplifter. If someone spotted a drill on the sidewalk with no price
    tag and picked it up we wouldn't call them a shoplifter.\r\n\r\nSo it's not about
    how many paying customers are lost to piracy. That's not the issue. Piracy can't
    be stopped. If people want to pirate fonts, they can pirate fonts. If you bring
    that into it, you're clouding the real issue which is: the difference between
    Store A and Store B. It's not just about how easy it is to get at the fonts. It's
    about the difference between having to defeat security using a font ripper browser
    plugin or just straight downloading from a URL.\r\n\r\nThe EULA, to me is very
    important. Whatever embedding solutions people come up with, that's the most important
    factor to me. At the very least, I deserve to be protected by a liability disclaimer,
    no?"
  created: '2009-07-05 03:56:04'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@typodermic\r\n\r\nYou've got it about right.\r\nNow, font-makers as a group
    need to swiftly move towards a consensus and begin to speak - at least publicly
    - with one voice on this issue.\r\nThose who don't quite understand the technical
    barriers to unlicensed use need to defer to trusted colleagues who do.\r\nJust
    as in a labor dispute - say, the Writers Guild of America strike a few years ago
    that stopped TV and Film production - fragmentation is enemy number one.\r\n\r\n(Just
    my humble opinion. But an informed one.)\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://readableweb.com\">Richard
    Fink</a>"
  created: '2009-07-05 05:31:14'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "The Writers Guild is a union right? International screenwriters, like those
    who work in Britain, France, or Germany, aren't covered, I think. TV didn't stop
    over here in Europe when the Americans went on strike\u2026\r\n\r\nMy point is
    that typeface designers, font developers, and font distributors are a diverse
    bunch, internationally scattered. Speaking for all of them would be difficult.
    There isn't a union, in the US or otherwise. The ATypI, which you might be able
    to call an international trade group, probably cannot speak authoritatively for
    all of the people who work with type worldwide, even if they would all be members
    (which is not the case, I suspect)."
  created: '2009-07-05 12:51:15'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@dan_reynolds\r\nEverything you say is true.\r\nAnd I'm not saying that everyone
    should unquestioningly start marching in lockstep.\r\nBut there is a common interest
    among all font-makers everywhere. And, if it is at all possible, from a \"political\"
    and \"public relations\" standpoint, a united front would be highly beneficial.\r\nFor
    one reason only: I think it will help bring a speedier resolution of the \"problem\"
    of web fonts to the satisfaction of most stakeholders.\r\n\r\nLike I said, just
    my opinion, but it is based on a lot of hours looking at this issue unfold on
    a daily basis.\r\n\r\nThere is a symposium at TypeCon2009 on Sunday the 19th about
    web fonts. Perhaps some light will be shed there."
  created: '2009-07-05 17:52:11'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"the difference between Store A and Store B\"\r\n\r\nB&M analogies aren't
    always ideal, but yours is pretty good. However, if I may, I think to fully equate
    the analogy to web fonts, we need a C option:\r\n\r\nstore A) commercial tools,
    but easy to shoplift if one desires. It's also very easy to legitimately purchase
    quickly and efficiently for those that like to buy their products legitimately.
    \r\n\r\nstore B) commercial tools, but difficult to shoplift if one desires. It's
    also a bit of a pain to purchase products as there are long lines, crowded parking,
    and that really annoying person that insists that they look in your card and put
    a smiley face on the receipt before you can leave since they don't trust any of
    their customers. \r\n\r\nfree bin C) commercial tools that have been left in boxes
    out behind the abandoned warehouse for anyone to take that wants them. \r\n\r\nI
    think those into getting software for free for the sake of getting it for free
    are fully aware of location C and use that most of the time (.ru sites, any number
    of newsgroups or bittorrent trackers, private file sharing groups, sendspace/yousendit/megadownload/etc).
    Some of these folks, if they can't find the tool they want at option C will go
    into store A and sneak it out in their coat. \r\n\r\nWhich leaves the question:
    What if Store A didn't exist? What would that group of people do if option C didn't
    have what they want? I see a few scenarios:\r\n\r\n1) They'd decide that it's
    not worth the effort to steal from store B and do nothing.\r\n\r\n2) They'd be
    determined to get it anyways and do what it takes to lift it from store B.\r\n\r\n3)
    They'd decide to pay money legitimately at store B.\r\n\r\nWhat percentage of
    people that rarely if ever pay for fonts would fit into each of those 3 groups?
    I don't know. Does getting rid of option A turn off some legitimate purchasers
    who no longer will bother as they don't want to deal with the hassle of store
    B? I don't know that either.\r\n\r\n\"It\u2019s about the difference between having
    to defeat security using a font ripper browser plugin or just straight downloading
    from a URL.\"\r\n\r\nIMHO, I don't see a real difference there. In fact, I imagine
    the 'font ripper' plugin would ultimately be easier to use ('STEAL ANY FONTS ON
    THIS SITE' one click vs. VIEW SOURCE -> Find CSS URL -> View CSS -> find @font-face
    path -> Download font).\r\n\r\nAside from all of that, I do agree that a consensus
    needs to be formed sooner than later. Something that the type community can present
    to the W3C as their own proposal as a group. "
  created: '2009-07-05 17:59:35'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: I'm certainly looking forward to sitting in the audience and listening to
    the web fonts symposium at TypeCon. Whether or not a consensus is reached, I'm
    sure that it will be an eye-opening event.
  created: '2009-07-05 18:00:50'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Irrespective of the TTF/OTF vs EOT question:\r\nI am delighted that Mozilla
    3.5 supports 'liga' and 'kern' features pretty well, even if referencing multiple
    lookups and even if contextual. Very good. (Safari seems to have problems here.)\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2009-07-06 09:59:07'
- author:
    name: ChrisLilley
  body: "@k.l. You may be interested in these tests (and results for various browsers):\r\n[[http://www.w3.org/International/tests/list-html-css#fonts|W3C
    font linking tests for International typography]]\r\n\r\nFor some languages, downloadable
    fonts are currently the only way to make readable web pages."
  created: '2009-07-06 12:55:31'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: Thanks, I didn't know this page!
  created: '2009-07-06 13:13:38'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>I\u2019m certainly looking forward to sitting in the audience and listening
    to the web fonts symposium at TypeCon. Whether or not a consensus is reached,
    I\u2019m sure that it will be an eye-opening event.</cite>\r\n\r\n9 panelist in
    one hour. I think one can pretty much guarantee no consensus will be reached. "
  created: '2009-07-06 21:46:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: If I go, it will be ten panelists in one hour, but I don't think consensus
    is the goal of the panel session. If some red flags are raised and people understand
    the issues, that's a good start.
  created: '2009-07-07 02:33:24'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "One person's red flag, is another's blue flag. 10 or 20 panelists in a n
    hour or five is not going to change the fact that there will be dozens of solutions
    eventually offered, and the marketplace will pick the winner. Go to the bar and
    have a drink instead.\r\n\r\nNothing was ever resolved in public."
  created: '2009-07-07 02:59:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "James, the W3C is currently considering formalising a standard for a web
    font format -- or multiple formats -- that will be supported by all browsers.
    Whatever other solutions are eventually offered by online typesetting services,
    plug-ins, etc., and which will fare better or worse in the market, we're currently
    looking at a web font standard \xE0 la online graphics or audio formats. This
    isn't something to be ignored. A couple of days ago, FireFox 3.5 became the latest
    browser to unilaterally support linking of raw TTF and OTF font files, with nothing
    to prevent your fonts from being made downloadable from servers all over the net
    except your license agreement and your own diligence.\r\n\r\nAgain, I'm not expecting
    anything to be resolved at TypeCon, but I am looking on it as an opportunity to
    discuss counter proposals for stronger formats, sort out some technical issues,
    etc. The panel is a chance to present some facts, air some opinions, and establish
    basic positions. I think the bar and drinks are going to be crucial to what comes
    next.\r\n\r\n<em>Nothing was ever resolved in public.</em>\r\n\r\nIt is in the
    nature of standards that they have to be resolved in public. It is illegal not
    to resolve them in public."
  created: '2009-07-07 05:09:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: So yes, I am going to TypeCon.
  created: '2009-07-07 05:09:29'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Given the hot-button nature of this issue, I have recently stepped forward
    to moderate the TypeCon web fonts panel -- which may well prove to be a fool's
    errand.\r\n\r\nI have yet to talk through the session with the panel members,
    but my intention will be to keep the didactic material to a minimum and to facilitate
    a focused, substantive exchange.\r\n\r\nThis panel is being offered as a discussion,
    not a consensus or a resolution. \r\n\r\nTen people is indeed a large group to
    manage (and our audio tech, JP, is going to love managing this also -- Ha!). I
    hope we can keep expectations realistic.\r\n\r\nI think John stated the objective
    quite well: <cite>\"a chance to present some facts, air some opinions, and establish
    basic positions.\"</cite>\r\n\r\n-- Kent."
  created: '2009-07-07 13:33:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Perhaps you could take it a bit further Kent, and strike a committee to represent
    type designers' interests.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-07 14:57:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I think you should extend the panel to an hour and a half, if at all possible.
    I see it's the first thing Sat. morning, so you could start it at 8:30 instead
    of 9:00. Since this is the current hottest topic, people will be there. \r\n\r\nThere
    was a TypeCon panel--I think it was in Boston--about trends in type for print
    publications, and it was a great panel but frustratingly short. An hour with ten
    people is just too short. "
  created: '2009-07-07 16:33:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Kent, you may or may not want to wade through the W3C font list archive before
    attempting to moderate this panel. :)
  created: '2009-07-07 16:59:44'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>It is in the nature of standards that they have to be resolved in public.
    It is illegal not to resolve them in public.</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd standard making
    organizations would never, ever do anything that wasn't perfectly legal would
    they!\r\n\r\nI love it when you joke around!"
  created: '2009-07-07 18:13:14'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "I'm afraid the schedule is not my purview, Bill. \r\n\r\nAnd the session
    is first thing Sunday morning, not Saturday. I think trying to start early would
    be self-defeating. As much interest as there is in the topic, I don't foresee
    many people curtailing their Saturday night activities just to attend anything
    much before 9:00. Perhaps I'm wrong. \r\n\r\nSo, we should probably just start
    with the understanding that it will be frustratingly short and not cover everything.
    I suppose that's the nature of the beast.\r\n\r\nFrom there, we'll have to do
    the best we can -- start on time, stay on point, and let the conversation spill
    into the hallways after.\r\n\r\nJohn, I can barely keep up with the various threads
    here. ;-) \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-07 19:15:47'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Well as there''s a half hour between sessions, another option would be to
    call out when an hour is up, then continue informally for another 20-30 minutes
    for those who want. '
  created: '2009-07-07 21:20:19'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>As much interest as there is in the topic, I don\u2019t foresee many
    people curtailing their Saturday night activities just to attend anything much
    before 9:00.</cite>\r\n\r\nI bet this whole thing could get worked out if you
    just locked them in Shu\u2019s room overnight."
  created: '2009-07-07 21:24:54'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: Hmm. Bill, I'm not sure what schedule you're looking at, but the next session
    on Sunday morning is slated for 10:00, right on the heels of the panel.
  created: '2009-07-07 21:41:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Kent, you''re right, in my haste I must have misread it. '
  created: '2009-07-07 21:50:15'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "Kent, these things always take about 50 minutes to get really rolling. Maybe
    you can trim that to 30. :)\r\n\r\nThe panel -- and more importantly, the audience
    -- will benefit from a firm grip from the moderator, so I wish you well there."
  created: '2009-07-08 01:51:54'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">...I\u2019m not sure what schedule you\u2019re looking at, \r\n\r\nI'm wondering,
    looking at typecon.com, as an exhausted interface user, whether the schedule is
    up and I just can't find the button that says \"show me the damn schedule\", or
    whether it's not up and we're looking at the skeleton of a user interface waiting
    to be populated, that's how good it is.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-07-08 10:29:59'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "The TypeCon schedule is up.\r\n\r\nI am too, but I am going back to bed as
    soon as my stomach settles. I must have eaten too much web font debate or something.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-07-08 10:52:57'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "David --\r\n\r\nAt [[http://www.typecon.com|TypeCon.com]], select Program
    from the menu on the left. You probably did that.\r\n\r\nWhat's not obvious it
    that when the Calendar loads, it defaults to Tuesday and only shows details for
    that day (one lone event). In the right hand panel, select each of the different
    Days in the second tier to get associated details.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-08 12:57:29'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@kent\r\nYou'll be needing a chair and a whip for this. Better pre-order.\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2009-07-08 13:43:36'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Okay now. I'm just trained to ignore light grey type. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-07-08 21:16:04'
- author:
    name: outrasfontes
    picture: 112120
  body: "In my personal opinion, after seeing the latest edition of Firefox now supporting
    the @font-face thing, I think we really need a new format. There must be a better
    solution for us then simply let the web developers put raw OTF/TTF in a public
    server. I think the Ascender proposal seems to be the best pragmatic one until
    now. Maybe services like Typekit could be good alternatives also, but it is still
    too mysterious to have an opinion about it.\r\n\r\nI wish you have a good Typecon.
    :)"
  created: '2009-07-09 06:29:09'
- author:
    name: billdavis
    picture: 109965
  body: 'Busy getting ready for TypeCon... here is something new to discuss: we just
    announced that by the end of this month we''ll be updating our [[http://www.AscenderFonts.com|AscenderFonts.com]]
    website so users can purchase a web fonts license. We will supply fonts in the
    EOT format - yes, the less restrictive version we''ve dubbed "EOT Lite". We have
    discussed this all the type designers and foundries which we have distribution
    agreements with, and have received great feedback and support. Our press release
    can be read here: [[http://www.ascendercorp.com/pr/2009-07-15/|AscenderFonts.com
    announces Web Fonts licenses]]'
  created: '2009-07-15 03:50:57'
- author:
    name: Shu
    picture: 109463
  body: "<em>I bet this whole thing could get worked out if you just locked them in
    Shu\u2019s room overnight.</em>\r\n\r\nPerhaps. And since I am on the Web Fonts
    panel it might happen anyway . . .\r\n\r\nOn another note, the Web Fonts panel
    <em>may</em> be increased in length. Don't quote me on that."
  created: '2009-07-15 04:46:07'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "@billdavis: Will you also be licensing TTFs? \r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.techcrunch.com/2009/07/05/since-march-internet-explorer-lost-114-percent-share-to-firefox-safari-and-chrome/\">IE
    is now down to 50% market share</a> so unless you do license TTFs, this annoucement
    isn't useful for web publishers. I note that <a href=\"http://www.readingtype.org.uk/blog/2009/07/good-news-for-web-designers-acceptable.html\">rumours
    are spreading that some foundries are ALREADY licensing TTFs for the web</a> with
    a corrupt NAME table so that they cannot be installed in desktop operating systems."
  created: '2009-07-15 14:06:11'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "In the same rumor, however;\r\n\r\n\"Personally I am disappointed because
    I was hoping that the debate might move forward the concept of licence expression,
    where information about creator and publisher of linked items in a page (like
    video, photography, typefaces, etc) is available to the user through a machine-comprehendable
    format that is partially or completely wrapped around the media themselves.\"\r\n\r\n...\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-07-15 15:06:42'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Dave: <em>IE is now down to 50% market share so unless you do license TTFs,
    this announcement isn\u2019t useful for web publishers.</em>\r\n\r\nAbout as useful
    as supporting naked TTF/OTF linking in the other 50%.\r\n\r\nI'm waiting for additional
    data on browser market share. The page you link to cites a single source for early
    data. Net Applications are still reviewing June figures.\r\n___\r\n\r\nRe. both
    naked TTF/OTF and EOT Lite: if it ain't compressed, it ain't a real web font format.\r\n\r\nMaking
    TTF a web font standard makes as little sense as making TIFF a web graphics standard."
  created: '2009-07-15 16:01:09'
- author:
    name: billdavis
    picture: 109965
  body: "<em>@abattis: Will you also be licensing TTFs? </em>\r\n\r\nNo. We have made
    clear our position not to license raw TTF and OTF fonts for use with @font-face
    in websites. \r\n\r\nAgain, we believe that EOT Lite provides a reasonable solution
    that addressed the concerns expressed by the other browser makers (by removing
    the patented font compression and URL binding parts of EOT). \r\n\r\nWe are offering
    web designers a solution that can be implemented today in IE, and hopefully in
    the not too distant future in the other browsers. We will do everything we can
    to encourage adoption of EOT Lite by other type designers/foundries, and by the
    browser makers. \r\n\r\nAs to John's comments about compression, as others have
    pointed out, there are ways to compress EOT fonts at the server.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-15 16:36:43'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "@bill: Okay, thanks for your clarification. Is the actual text of the web
    fonts contract published yet?\r\n\r\n@john: <em>\"Making TTF a web font standard
    makes as little sense as making TIFF a web graphics standard.\"</em> Sadly I think
    a web font standard will be years off, and we'll be saddled with dual format web
    fonts. \r\n\r\nHope that the TypeCon panel will be recorded and posted on the
    web for those unable to make it :)"
  created: '2009-07-15 18:23:15'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I agree that EOT Lite successfully removes anything browser vendors might
    reasonably object to. But does it also remove something font vendors might reasonably
    insist on?\r\n\r\nMind you, if what one is selling is the EOT files themselves,
    the vendor can put real customer info or at least a customer-specific serial number
    right in the font. This is a bit different than the EOT model we were envisioning
    when I was at Adobe, which was that we'd just let the customer do the EOT conversion
    themselves. But with EOT Lite the vendor might have more reason not to allow that.\r\n\r\nBut
    it's hard to comment much on Ascender's approach without knowing more about the
    license model / fee structure. Once that's public, there will be more to discuss.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-07-16 05:33:14'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "@Phinney - Mind you, if what one is selling is the EOT files themselves,
    the vendor can put real customer info or at least a customer-specific serial number
    right in the font. \r\n\r\n...right you are! and in addition, this (licensing,
    we are not selling yet), can be done with the evil \"raw\" OT font... and in addition,
    the file name can be changed with no adverse effects. This is <em>not</em> a long-term
    replacement for the PERM, however, which must be implemented before 'client-unseen'
    licensing can commence.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-07-16 11:17:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '[[http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-font/2009JulSep/0440.html|Revised
    web fonts proposal]] by Tal Leming and Eric van Blokland.'
  created: '2009-07-16 11:23:21'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"We are offering web designers a solution that can be implemented today
    in IE, and hopefully in the not too distant future in the other browsers.\"\r\n\r\nWhich
    is great. But note that most web developers don't give much thought to IE in terms
    of going out of the way to enhance things. IE has become the 'weird cousin' that
    you are still obligated to invite to all your birthday parties but do so reluctantly.
    \r\n\r\nIt does seem like we've hit some apex of momentum with @font-face options
    and products and conversations, though. Nice to see. Hopefully some form of solution
    that most can agree upon will surface by end of year. "
  created: '2009-07-16 14:48:01'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@abattis, billdavis\r\n\"<em>Hope that the TypeCon panel will be recorded
    and posted on the web for those unable to make it :)</em>\"\r\n\r\nI have spoken
    to Kent Lew about this. If all are agreeable, I've got a Sony Hi-Def camera and
    tri-pod with me at TypeCon\r\nand will gladly volunteer to record the event, no
    strings attached, claiming no rights. But, of course, it's up to others to decide
    if this is appropriate and OK with them.\r\n\r\n@billdavis\r\n\r\nAt TypeCon,
    hoping you've got fairly firm answers on pricing, etc... \r\nAnd how about those
    who just want to continue to process, say, Cambria, out of the Windows Fonts folder
    using Weft?\r\nAre you now looking for license money for this?\r\nWill the same
    tools as are made available to font-makers be freely available to anybody?\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://readableweb.com\">Richard Fink</a>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-16 15:06:44'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Typotheque appear to have chosen a different approach:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typotheque.com/news/web_font_service_preview\r\n\r\nAny
    thoughts about this?\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-07-16 15:25:13'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: '@richard fink: Wow man, video! That would be awesome! '
  created: '2009-07-16 18:43:14'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Here is a compiled <a href="http://typegirl.tumblr.com/post/142912558/most-of-the-important-foundries-are-supporting-webfont">list
    of foundries</a>, so far, who support (like the idea of) the .webfonts proposal
    set forth by Tal and Erik.
  created: '2009-07-17 00:29:53'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "I really distrust the impression Bill Davis gives here that:\r\n\r\n<ol><li>We
    did give this some thought  and we solved the problem ril quick over the weekend
    and here is the solution so everybody please sign on KTHXBYE</li>\r\n<li>This
    solution is a solution because it works in IE. We are in bed with Microsoft and
    IE is pretty much all that matters to us.</li>\r\n<li>We\u2019ve heard there are
    these things  called \u201Cbrowsers\u201D that other people use, but we haven\u2019t
    met any of those people and I\u2019m sure whatever\u2019s involved in all that
    will just fall into line with IE anyway.</li>\r\n<li>Web designers obviously want
    a solution that works in Internet Explorer for Microsoft Windows, since they use
    and admire both as much as we do.</li>\r\n</ol>\r\n\r\nWhat did I get wrong?\r\n\r\n\u2014
    \ \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-07-17 04:35:09'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: '@joeclark: The other browser developers were pretty clear that, in order
    for them to support EOT-Lite, MSIE would have to support regular TTF/OTF fonts.
    In fact I think Howcome proposed that compromise before this proposal, so it was
    for the lulz from the start, IMO. '
  children:
  - author:
      name: Thomas Phinney
      picture: 128358
    body: "@abattis: <cite>\"@joeclark: The other browser developers were pretty clear
      that, in order for them to support EOT-Lite, MSIE would have to support regular
      TTF/OTF fonts. In fact I think Howcome proposed that compromise before this
      proposal, so it was for the lulz from the start, IMO.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nI am quite
      sure I saw H\xE5kon say that, and some folks agree. But the main question in
      my mind was whether John Daggett (Mozilla/Firefox) was in that camp. I don't
      recall seeing him say so. Do you have a reference or recollection?\r\n\r\n(All
      of which demonstrates the problem with the number of discussions/postings going
      on about this stuff. I'm spending two hours a day on this, and I can't keep
      it straight without a scorecard (which I recently created, actually), so how
      can anybody else?)\r\n\r\nT"
    created: '2009-07-22 19:57:01'
  created: '2009-07-17 10:33:30'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>\u2026it was for the lulz from the start, IMO.</cite>\r\n\r\nI think
    it was a little more serious, you know, how many web font pirates can fit on the
    head of a pin and all that. "
  created: '2009-07-17 13:41:10'
- author:
    name: billdavis
    picture: 109965
  body: <em>@joeclark:</em> You got it all wrong. Thanks for the sarcasm but it doesn't
    add much to this discussion.
  created: '2009-07-17 20:59:50'
- author:
    name: billdavis
    picture: 109965
  body: "Joe, we have proven over many years to always have the best interest of the
    type community in our hearts and actions.\r\n\r\nWe have been working hard on
    web fonts for a long time.\r\n\r\nWe respect Microsoft and certainly appreciate
    their unwavering support for the font community over many years; not just Ascender.\r\n\r\nAny
    solution that requires Microsoft to switch from EOT will take three to four years
    to reach a critical mass of browser (yes IE) users and anything resembling cross-browser
    compatibility with therefore take that long. You are probably so busy doing other
    things that you were unaware of this.\r\n\r\nMozilla objected to two things about
    EOT, to our knowledge. We have merely suggested removing those two things from
    EOT (and still feel we have a reasonable solution). Not exactly an 'in bed with
    Microsoft' approach.\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-17 21:26:05'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>Re. both naked TTF/OTF and EOT Lite: if it ain\u2019t compressed, it
    ain\u2019t a real web font format.</cite>\r\n\r\nAny web content can be compressed
    on the fly and all those webfont services will probably use this techniqe.\r\nhttp://www.websiteoptimization.com/speed/tweak/compress/\r\n\r\n<cite>Typotheque
    appear to have chosen a different approach:\r\nAny thoughts about this?</cite>\r\n\r\nIt's
    a wonderful example that even a \"smaller\" foundry can pull it off, it they want
    to. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-18 17:52:45'
- author:
    name: outrasfontes
    picture: 112120
  body: "As I can see in some pages already using webfonts, file size seems to be
    really a problem to be solved. Depending of connection speed, it can take several
    seconds until the strange Times Roman layout change to the real one.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    it is a good point for you to discuss tomorow at TypeCon's webfonts panel.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nps:
    Inonic accusations are simple, but reality is complex."
  created: '2009-07-19 01:27:44'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Bill, anyone who would engage in typographic debate without occasional sarcasm
    would \u2013 what is the term? \u2013 steal sheep.\r\n\r\nIE users aren\u2019t
    the ones who are clamoring for Web fonts, if anyone is. They\u2019re Macintosh
    supremacists. IE support will not matter in the slightest to the majority of early
    and mid-term adopters of Web fonts. \r\n\r\nNow, while you were busy with other
    things, you probably failed to recognize that these designers have to get their
    sites up and running to their satisfaction <em>on their own machines</em> before
    they worry about anybody else\u2019s. (We\u2019ll exclude the tag-soup problem
    for a moment. Many Web-font proponents are leading standardistas.) Hence even
    if you contend, as I expect you would were you offered a day, just one little
    day, without an iota of sarcasm, that Macintosh-wielding Web designers are a tiny
    minority compared to the teeming mass of IE users, the fact remains that Web designers
    <em>are the market for Web fonts</em>. You have to satisfy their needs first.
    You may be accustomed to satisfying some other entity\u2019s first.\r\n\r\n\u2014
    \ \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-07-22 17:11:49'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: '[[http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-font/2009JulSep/0548.html|Updated
    .webfont proposal from Tal and Erik]]'
  created: '2009-07-22 17:18:30'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Joe: <em>IE users aren\u2019t the ones who are clamoring for Web fonts, if
    anyone is. They\u2019re Macintosh supremacists. IE support will not matter in
    the slightest to the majority of early and mid-term adopters of Web fonts.</em>\r\n\r\nWeb
    pages are not made for web designers, Mac supremacists or not. Web pages are made
    for visitors, and if a company cares enough about the visual appearance of their
    web presence to want specific fonts on one browser they will care enough to want
    them on all browsers. This isn't about the computer platform being used by early
    adopters of served typography, it is about the web presence of their customers."
  created: '2009-07-22 18:05:50'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: '@Thomas: Erm, I got the impression JD agreed with HWL, but searching "from:daggett+compromise"
    now I can''t find him saying that explicitly. Lawrence P''s posts today about
    EOT are not a good omen though.'
  created: '2009-07-23 01:33:19'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">MSIE would have to support regular TTF/OTF fonts.\r\n\r\nAccording to Howcome,
    IE already does support regular TTF/OTF fonts.\r\n\r\n>http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-font/2009JulSep/0608.html\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-07-24 12:44:57'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "In recent days, Daggett has made it pretty clear that he/Mozilla don't have
    much interest in EOT Lite. I am not convinced his arguments make much sense, but
    that doesn't really matter. No is no.\r\n\r\n@dberlow: Apparently IE accesses
    the raw font files, but it doesn't do anything useful with them for rendering.
    It chews downloadbandwidth, maybe they end up in the browser cache, but they don't
    get used on screen.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-07-25 23:49:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Thomas, where do you think that leaves the other initiatives, such as the
    Tal Leming''s, David Berlow''s, Peter Bilak''s? Are the proprietary net font shops
    like Typekit and Kernest going to be the only game on the net, at least for a
    few years?   '
  created: '2009-07-26 00:59:58'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Are the proprietary net font shops like Typekit and Kernest\"\r\n\r\nProprietary
    in what sense?"
  created: '2009-07-26 01:41:17'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite> In recent days, Daggett has made it pretty clear that he/Mozilla don\u2019t
    have much interest in EOT Lite. I am not convinced his arguments make much sense,
    but that doesn\u2019t really matter. No is no.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt's not particularly
    clear to me. I haven't seen him say \"no\"."
  created: '2009-07-26 01:43:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Just when you thought a moment of clarity emerged from the recent TypeCon
    mega-panel, the water gets murkier once more.\r\n\r\n ChrisL"
  created: '2009-07-26 02:35:45'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Proprietary in what sense?\r\n\r\nI meant that they have their own software
    and services that they rent to you. "
  created: '2009-07-26 03:06:18'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>...where do you think that leaves the other initiatives...</em>\r\n\r\nVery
    much on the table, especially .webfont and ZOT.\r\n\r\nWe didn't talk about ZOT
    during the TypeCon panel, but it is a serious contender for an interoperable web
    font format. It's probably the simplest of the options being considered, but isn't
    as flexible as .webfont because, like EOT, it is very OpenType-focused, whereas
    the wrapper model of .webfont could be applied to other kinds of font data in
    future.\r\n\r\nZOT applies compression to individual OpenType tables, rather than
    compressing the whole font as in .webfont. ZOT contains much less extra-font metadata
    than either .webfont or EOT/-Lite. ZOT was proposed by Jonathan Kew, who used
    to work for SIL where he developed the brilliant XeTeX page layout program, and
    who now works for Mozilla.\r\n\r\nDavid's perm table idea, like FontLab's EEULAA
    table, is orthogonal to the web font format discussion: anything that resides
    in the font data itself will be included within any web font wrapper. Regardless
    of what wins out as the interoperable web font format, the idea of license permissions,
    serialisation and other kinds of customised metadata in the font seems to be an
    idea whose time has come; indeed, whose time came some time ago!\r\n\r\nPeter
    Bi\u013Eak's approach seems to me a hack and a short term solution in response
    to the current situation. I don't think it is a viable web font format for the
    long term, and I doubt if Peter thinks of it as such. It should be noted that
    he supports the .webfont proposal.\r\n___\r\n\r\nChris, John Daggett's opposition
    to anything EOT-related does seem pretty fixed. If he hasn't said 'No' in so many
    words, he has certainly said it in as many other ways as possible. I don't take
    this to mean that it is impossible that Mozilla will support EOT Lite, only that
    if they do it will be grudgingly and probably only after a lot of fighting.\r\n\r\nInterestingly,
    the people on the W3C list who are now putting most pressure on Mozilla and Opera
    to support EOT Lite are web developers who want a format that provides immediate
    support to millions of users via various versions of IE and which will be backwards
    compatible, and who don't want to wait for a new format to be standardised."
  created: '2009-07-26 03:08:58'
- author:
    name: outrasfontes
    picture: 112120
  body: "Christopher,\r\n\r\nDagget didn't say no explicitly, but he's trying to reject
    anything that smells like Microsoft (as someone said here), giving nonsense excuses
    without analyzing it.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-26 03:20:49'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I meant that they have their own software and services that they rent to
    you.\"\r\n\r\nI don't think there's anything proprietary from a technical standpoint. "
  created: '2009-07-26 03:55:17'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "John, you write that:\r\n\r\n<cite>David\u2019s perm table idea, like FontLab\u2019s
    EEULAA table, is orthogonal to the web font format discussion</cite>\r\n\r\nAcutally
    this is well in line with Mozilla's attempt to push ZOT. Mozilla/Opera argue that
    metadata could be placed in a normal font table, which is what both PERM and EEULAA
    are far as I understand.\r\n\r\n<cite>Peter Bi\u013Eak\u2019s approach seems to
    me a hack and a short term solution in response to the current situation.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    would not call it a hack. It is a service, like WebKit is. It implies more than
    just the technical aspect of font linking, it also covers choosing and licensing
    fonts. I assume that if EOT Lite or .webfont or ZOT or whatever else someone will
    come up with has been implemented, these services will switch to the \"safer\"
    font formats -- without loosing their service legitimation.\r\n\r\nBest wishes!
    Karsten"
  created: '2009-07-26 12:30:32'
- author:
    name: dave nalle
    picture: 113027
  body: "There are people who still use IE?  How unexpected.  That should hardly be
    the target audience for anything design related these days.\r\n\r\nWe've done
    some nice web fonts, and since it seems to be the industry standard at least for
    now, they are now available in .swf format at http://www.fontcraft.com/fontcraft/?p=1178\r\n\r\nIt's
    a starting point, anyway.\r\n\r\nDave Nalle\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fontcraft.com\">Scriptorium
    Fonts</a>"
  created: '2009-07-26 16:47:44'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@thomasphinney\r\n\r\nAs far as Mozilla's opinion, I haven't seen a firm
    \"no\" regarding the new EOT.\r\nWould they rather not do it? That certainly seems
    to be the case.\r\nWhat I've seen so far are preferences dressed up as arguments,
    and fairly exposed as such.\r\nIt's time to put the F back in WTF.\r\nI'm not
    so sure they're ready to deny the web developer/design community Web Fonts for
    at least an additional 5 years (if not forever), over a refusal to treat a file
    with an .EOT extension as if it had an .TTF extension, which is, essentially,
    all that is being asked of them.\r\nIndeed, at least Robert Callahan has said
    he would like input from the web design community.\r\nThe new EOT, EOT Lite, has
    been in existence for less than fours weeks!\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2009-07-26 17:10:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Karsten: <em>I would not call it a hack. It is a service, like WebKit is.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    was referring to what I understand to be the served format and the mechanism used
    to obfuscate the font and prevent it from being installed as a desktop font. As
    I understand it, this involves deliberately corrupting the name table, which is
    why I characterise it as a hack: something contrary to the font specification.\r\n\r\nI
    agree that the Typotheque service is just that, a service \xE0 la Typekit and
    Kernest, and the served format is irrelevant to that and, hence, the service is
    orthogonal to the format debate."
  created: '2009-07-26 19:29:42'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "I see.\r\nPerhaps, since in this context a font is not (supposed to be) installed
    on a local computer, these hacks are acceptable. Perhaps acceptable even within
    .webfont, .eot or .zot whose file suffixes signal that these are web fonts. Not
    acceptable though if these hacks were applied to .ttf or .otf \"web fonts\" delivered
    to customers since these miss a \"no desktop font\" flag."
  created: '2009-07-26 20:02:08'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Richard: <em>The new EOT, EOT Lite, has been in existence for less than fours
    weeks!</em>\r\n\r\nAnd Firefox 3.5 has been out for less time than that, supporting
    naked font linking. If you could guarantee that the outcome of a longer process
    would be Mozilla support for EOT Lite and definitely <em>not</em> IE support for
    naked font linking, then I think font makers would be less of a rush to see something
    like .webfont or ZOT embraced as a single interoperable format.\r\n\r\nIf naked
    font linking is taken off the table as an interoperable format, I don't much care
    which other format wins out in the long run so long as it contains the minimal
    level of protection against casual misuse that the majority of font makers have
    indicated they would accept. EOT Lite isn't going to go away, and Ascender's strategy
    seems a good one: make EOT Lite a significant presence in the market with the
    benefit of backwards compatibility and major foundries licensing for and providing
    web fonts in the format. Frankly, I'm not sure that Ascender would want EOT Lite
    to become the subject of a W3C working group, as they might get more mileage out
    of establishing it as a de facto standard rather than working to make it a de
    jure standard.\r\n\r\nBack when this debate started with Opera's support for naked
    font linking, H\xE5kon Lie had the idea of letting the market determine the format,
    thinking that naked font linking would win out because of the relative ease it
    offers to browsers and web authors. I think he badly underestimated both the resistance
    of the foundries and also of our bigger customers, who want a format that protects
    their own font IP. He also didn't anticipate EOT Lite, which -- credit to Ascender
    -- has completely changed the nature of the debate and put the non-IE browsers
    on the defensive. Now you, and I anticipate other web designers and publishers,
    are pressing that advantage and I think this is a good thing.\r\n\r\nToday, if
    the market were allowed to determine the format, I strongly suspect that EOT Lite
    would be the eventual winner. What I'm not willing to accept, though, is that
    we might end up with multiple interoperable formats <em>including naked font linking.</em>
    This is why a commitment from browser makers to a different interoperable format
    such as .webfont or ZOT, acceptable to everyone on both technical and political
    grounds, is attractive to me: the non-IE browsers get to duck out of supporting
    EOT Lite in return for accepting that naked font linking is dead-in-the-water.\r\n\r\nI
    suppose much depends on how likely one considers it that the non-IE browsers,
    and Mozilla in particular, will cave and support EOT Lite <em>without any reciprocal
    agreement from MS to support naked font linking.</em> This is, I suspect, where
    the interests of font makers and the interests of web designers diverge: because
    while web designers might want EOT Lite on the basis of its backwards compatibility,
    they don't really care whether naked font linking also becomes interoperable,
    whereas font makers and some of our customers care very much indeed. If web designers
    and authors such as yourself want font makers to stick with you in demanding cross-browser
    support for EOT Lite, rather than letting the non-IE browsers opt for .webfont
    or ZOT instead, you need to make at least a strategic commitment to rejecting
    naked font linking. A quid pro quo alliance between font makers and web designers
    supporting EOT Lite is certainly possible.\r\n___\r\n\r\nPS. I've read Robert
    Callahan's contributions to the W3C list, but I don't know who he is or what his
    stake in this is. Can you enlighten me, Richard?"
  created: '2009-07-26 20:09:49'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I\u2019ve seen that as well on some machines running the latest FF 3.5 (not
    a beta). No idea!\r\n\r\nSearch previous threads on 'vertical metrics' or \"chopped
    off\".\r\n\r\n> you could say that alignment zones and stem hints are fundamental
    to the digital graphic culture we now have...\r\nNick... I and other designers
    want to add the intra and inter glyph white-space to that fundamental list to
    make possible an end to typographic \"x abuse\" (we see a lot in this site). But
    the two main owners of TT/OT think the list is long enough at 2 things, alignment
    zones and 'page color'. And though ISO, the web's users, and I 'want it' otherwise,
    \"type scaling\" is set up that way by MS and Apple. Though all of the technology
    to handle readable web type exists, basically \"it's resolution's fault\"  that
    you can barely ever have optimal quality for your needs. \r\n\r\nThen, One could
    say that this web site's apparent use of @font-face suffers from low resolution
    typographic x abuse the site developer has absolutely no control over with these
    or most outline fonts, now or ever.* And the site suffers @font-face abuse from
    the user's perspective. I.E. the definition of the top 3/4 of the page as 2 assets,
    for the foreseeable future, does the user absolutely no good in transmission speed,
    and may in fact end up with that lovely script text appearing as Verdana, likely
    doing the publisher of the website nearly no good. Render unto pixels, that which
    is their due.\r\n\r\nThat covers text and display type on this type. But the sub
    heads, they are very nice and I like the color scheme.\r\n\r\n@Hudson> This is,
    as Si Daniels put it, the \u2019elephant in the room\u2019 that no one is talking
    about.\r\n\r\nThanks John for repeating a not entirely completely untrue statement.
    Since 2004 when the final hinting/fontformat/OS environment was being described
    for its eventual 2007 release from Longhorn into Vista, I and quite a few others
    have never called this issue an elephant in the room. ;)\r\n\r\nOtherwise, \"web
    text readability\" has been a rather huge topic here and elsewhere. Search on
    that instead of 'elephant' if anyone is interested. The fact that learned type
    people are supposing an emergency availability situation, and are supporting a
    new font format to utterly exacerbate the beast raw into a naked and raging elephant,
    is what surprises me. \r\n\r\n>The so-called \u2019web safe\u2019 fonts like Verdana,
    \r\n\r\n...are, as John correctly points out, safe by availability and by contour
    design, and at 13ppx Verdana is particularly safe because it was drawn to fit
    that size, (delete the hints and it works about the same at 13, when anti-aliased).
    But mostly, web safe fonts are safe simply from their original selection as part
    of a class of published digital outlines to accompany everything; as Courier,
    Times and Helvetica (et al), are familiar enough for users to \"fill in the blur\"
    of the bad sizes, they  just barely work. While Verdana et al are by contour design,
    made to minimize the blur by maximizing critical font-wide type design features,
    also in familiar forms people are used to. \r\n\r\n>...I\u2019m cooking something
    up to help web typographers with that....\r\n\r\nI call help, 'recommendations'.
    When taken from groups of fonts, a data-base of recommendations will provide a
    web typographer with a 'ball park' to start testing, or just go with the recommndation,
    for any particular use. I'd love to see what you cook up but people think adding
    this meta data to the OT font specification is the quickest and only way to begin
    addressing web text readability education on the scale required.\r\n\r\n>...Microsoft
    needs to rethink how it helps type designers with designing fonts\r\n\r\nSee what
    happened on this forum when I quested for a clear cleartype specification in '05?
    Search on \"giant pile of excrement\", as far as I recall. \r\n\r\n>I realize
    that there are some strong arguments in favor of manually-hinted TrueType fonts
    with deltas for different sizes...\r\n\r\nYou must mean Variations for different
    sizes. :) Deltas, they may be, that term has been demonized to an evil size-specific
    blot. Search on \"Superpolator\"\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n*Unless e.g. you set your
    OT/@FF-friendly browser's text size to medium, then go to: \r\nhttp://www.fontbureau.com/test/franky/\r\n...there
    you can futz with the site's typographic size and weight controls outside of the
    evil grip of everyone but me and some of my crazy ideas for \"elephant training.\"
    \r\n\r\nRemember, set your OT/@FF-friendly browser's text size to medium, set
    your OT/@FF-friendly browser's text size to medium. Don't forget, set your OT/@FF-friendly
    browser's text size to medium.\r\n\r\nAlso: You can steal these fonts now if it
    suits you. Or you can wait, and steal better ones later. Or you can wait until
    the new font wrapper everyone is so hot for, is thoroughly undressed by time as
    it surely must be to be accepted, and then you can steal these fonts from that
    format. See!? Lots of choices! Sorry for the L.P."
  created: '2009-07-26 20:17:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Dave: <em>There are people who still use IE? How unexpected. That should
    hardly be the target audience for anything design related these days.</em>\r\n\r\nThat
    makes as little sense as saying only design-related books should be designed or
    \ that if readers do not consciously care about design then typography is irrelevant
    because those readers are not 'the target audience'."
  created: '2009-07-26 20:19:22'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "For those trying to keep score, I believe that David Berlow is replying to
    several comments from this other thread:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/60281\r\n\r\nThere
    you'll find Nick's comments about alignment zones, John's quote of Si's \"elephant
    in the room\" comment, and there the \"this site\" that David is referring to
    is the lead topic.\r\n\r\nI can totally understand how he might have conflated
    the two threads."
  created: '2009-07-26 20:47:12'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@johnhudson\r\n\"<em>And Firefox 3.5 has been out for less time than that,
    supporting naked font linking. If you could guarantee that the outcome of a longer
    process would be Mozilla support for EOT Lite and definitely not IE support for
    naked font linking, then I think font makers would be less of a rush to see something
    like .webfont or ZOT embraced as a single interoperable format.\"</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    is a false choice, John. What is <strong>your</strong> approach guaranteeing?
    Nothing. None of us can guarantee any outcome at all on anything in these discussions.
    All you can do is approach things as smartly as you can.\r\n\r\nHakon Wium Lie
    would agree that the .fonts-from-the-moon proposal was fine with him as long as
    it moved the conversation past EOT. I don't say this to disrespect him, it's just
    in keeping with his previous statements on the subject and his own theatrical
    style. I can't help it if he goes about things as an actor playing a role, he
    just does.\r\n\r\nLie and, to a lessor extent, the guys from FireFox have made
    it clear they want to support linking to raw files and nothing more. What commitment
    have you gotten to make you think that's changed? Just because they'll kick around
    some alternatives with you in on online mailing list?\r\n\r\nLook, if you're willing
    to punt this down the road an extra five years, what's the all-fired rush?\r\n\r\nWhatever
    you feel you are, today, \"working out\" will be killed in the cradle. The nit-picking
    is already beginning in the .ZOT versus .webfonts proposal conversations.\r\n\r\nFurther,
    font-producers are not the only stakeholders here John.\r\nCopyright is granted
    by the public, it's not a divine right.\r\nYou give a damn about protecting your
    fonts and I give a damn about being able to use them. I'll have my say, too, and
    so should the web development community at large.\r\nEvaluation takes time.\r\nI
    think you are also underestimating the amount of communication and influence that
    can be exerted behind the scenes by players to whom we are dwarfs.\r\n\r\nThat's
    just how I see it.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nRich"
  created: '2009-07-26 23:51:54'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Hmmm. "Smells like Microsoft" sounds like a completely ridiculous reason to
    keep the experience of the internet for people world-wide significantly worse
    than it could be. Is that really what's going on?
  created: '2009-07-27 01:23:11'
- author:
    name: outrasfontes
    picture: 112120
  body: "<cite>Hmmm. \u201CSmells like Microsoft\u201D sounds like a completely ridiculous
    reason to keep the experience of the internet for people world-wide significantly
    worse than it could be. Is that really what\u2019s going on?</cite>\r\n\r\nI encourage
    everyone to read these <a href=\"http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-font/2009JulSep/\"><b>*few
    words*</b></a> and try to make your own conclusions. \r\n\r\nI'm learning with
    Opera and Mozilla guys that being prolix and evasive is an art for few. Maybe
    in the next 5 or 10 years we'll get a conclusion in that panel.\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-27 01:47:42'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>\u201CSmells like Microsoft\u201D sounds like a completely ridiculous
    reason\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nNot to anyone who followed the proceedings in the Microsoft
    antitrust trial. Lies and duplicity are hardly out of character for the great
    beast of Redmond. Not giving Microsoft an inch is a pretty smart move IMHO."
  created: '2009-07-27 02:03:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Richard: <em>Lie and, to a lesser extent, the guys from FireFox have made
    it clear they want to support linking to raw files and nothing more. What commitment
    have you gotten to make you think that\u2019s changed? Just because they\u2019ll
    kick around some alternatives with you in on online mailing list?</em>\r\n\r\nNo,
    I'm asking for a commitment in the form of a W3C working group. John Daggett from
    Mozilla has suggested an informal, ad hoc group to work out the details. I'm not
    satisfied with that, for the reasons you suggest. I want a formal W3C working
    group with a specific mandate.\r\n\r\nIn case I have not been clear: I think it
    is great that you are putting pressure on these browser makers, and if you can
    get more web authors and designers to do likewise, so much the better. Mozilla
    and Opera are being disingenuous about EOT Lite, and they deserve to be called
    on this, as you and Microsoft are doing. My name still isn't on the list of foundries
    supporting .webfont, and I still think EOT Lite is the stronger option. I'm also
    aware, though, that a great many of my colleagues support .webfont and would might
    be willing to support ZOT, and as one of the more vocal participants I feel an
    obligation to fairly represent that perspective.\r\n\r\nA little while ago, you
    were <em>urgently</em> encouraging font makers to organise and negotiate collectively.
    To a large extent, this is what is now happening, and you're suddenly asking us
    what is the rush."
  created: '2009-07-27 04:07:53'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@johnhudson\r\n\r\nUrgent to choose representatives and a strategy, NOT urgent
    to start entertaining any notion anybody seems like they want to talk about. (I'm
    overstating, I know.) Glad to hear you are hanging tough on the Working Group.
    I don't know if that binds anybody to anything, but at least it's concrete.\r\n\r\nHere's
    what I propose, along with my reasons:\r\n\r\nThe new EOT changed everything.
    I was taken totally by surprise when it first showed up. At first, I thought it
    was some kind of negotiating gimmick. (I really did.) It took me about a week
    to accept it as real and understand the ramifications.\r\nIt's huge. And Ascender
    and Monotype are already signed on. I assume Adobe will follow.\r\n\r\nOrganizing
    and lobbying collectively is the strongest way to go. A group of about three to
    four spokespeople  - two main reps and one to two alternates who have credibility
    and respect.\r\nOtherwise the entire font community will get chopped apart. The
    font guy who expects the least will always be held up as the poster child.\r\n\"Hey,
    it's OK with <strong>him</strong>\", they'll say, \"Why not you?\"\r\n\r\nNow,
    in fonts there's no central organization with legal authority along the lines
    of, say, the Writer's Guild.\r\nBut there is SOTA. There is AtypI. I think it's
    time for the top people at those organizations to get political.\r\nIf now isn't
    the time, when is?\r\n\r\nThere are membership lists aren't there? How long does
    it take to solicit nominations and take a final vote? A week? Two at the most.
    This is a highly special circumstance calling for special measures. While the
    final reps are being chosen, the presidents or boards of those organizations should,
    indeed, must appoint provisional reps.\r\n(There's this thing called the Internet
    that can be most helpful with stuff like this. Crappy fonts, but for getting things
    done fast, it's the bees knees.)\r\n\r\nA thread about the selection process  -
    for questions and comments - should be started right here on Typophile.\r\n\r\nWho's
    running SOTA right now? I know there's a changing of the guard taking place soon
    but I'm assuming the same folks from Atlanta are still in place. True? Not true?
    Tammy, Kent, are you there?\r\n\r\nI know next to nothing about AtypI, who's running
    the show there?\r\n\r\nJohn, so far, on the W3C mailing list, you've been the
    de facto industry representative. Except for Karsten, I think you've been the
    only professional font-producer talking. And I do give you credit for trying to
    take the bull by the horns. (And there has been a lot of bull, eh?)\r\nBut you
    can't, nor should you do it alone.\r\nObviously Tal and Erik have lobbied for
    their .webfont proposal which they feel strongly about and it's a serious proposal.\r\nThe
    problem is, EOT is working code on hundreds of millions of machines. Support for
    it would provide such profound benefits in such a short time that pushing it out
    front is a no brainer. Would Tal and Erik be willing to hold their fire for the
    greater good? (With the understanding that their proposal will be given the airing
    it is due once the status of the new EOT is decided?)\r\nDon't know. I'm sure
    they'll make their views known.\r\n\r\nI don't think the reps should be any of
    the \"big dogs\". Adobe, Monotype, MSFT, can speak for themselves.\r\n\r\nAs a
    member of SOTA, (full, not the cheapie student membership) I nominate you, John,
    to be one of the representatives. Provisional and permanent. You have a command
    of the technical issues, the verbal chops, and, obviously, the motivation.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    as a member of SOTA, I'm making a motion that no later than five days from now,
    all the recipients of the W3C Web Fonts mailing list, as well as any other concerned
    parties that may be identified, be formally notified of SOTA's intentions to present
    a group of representatives formally charged with representing the interests of
    SOTA's membership in dealings with browser makers and web-standards bodies.\r\n\r\nWho
    seconds this?\r\n\r\n(BTW - is there a place on SOTA's site for stuff like this,
    or should we just do a thread here?)\r\n\r\nHow does this sound to everybody?
    Anybody? Speak, please.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2009-07-27 05:55:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Richard, neither SoTA nor ATypI is an organisation representing professional
    font makers, and the fact that you, not a professional font maker, are able to
    become a full member of SoTA should make that fact obvious. These are organisations
    that put on conferences devoted to typographic design. It is not their mandate
    to represent font makers as you suggest, and I think you will find a lot of font
    makers objecting very strongly to your presumption.\r\n\r\nThese issues are being
    very actively discussed in the professional type design community. Large numbers
    of us are in daily contact, and I think the views of the community are being expressed.
    There isn't a uniform position, but there is a high level of understanding of
    the issues, and a responsiveness to the changing situation. A more formal representation
    is possible, and will likely happen in the case of a working group. What you might
    expect in that case is a list of font makers and vendors endorsing representatives
    and policies. The constitution of that list will be a better measure of the validity
    of the representation than the arbitrary membership of organisations such as SoTA
    and ATypI."
  created: '2009-07-27 06:15:37'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: 'Rich, to answer your questions about SOTA: You can find info [[http://www.typesociety.org/about.html|here]].
    The board of directors is listed [[http://www.typesociety.org/aboutboard.html|here]].
    I think John''s characterization is accurate, but the description on the SOTA
    site should tell you what you need to know.'
  created: '2009-07-27 06:46:32'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ooops! Thanks Kent ;)
  created: '2009-07-27 10:57:52'
- author:
    name: jdaggett
  body: "@utrasfontes \r\n\r\n<cite>Dagget didn\u2019t say no explicitly, but he\u2019s
    trying to reject anything that smells like Microsoft (as someone said here), giving
    nonsense excuses without analyzing it.</cite>\r\n\r\nSorry if there's something
    I didn't explain with sufficient rigor.  What exactly are you referring to?\r\n\r\nThis
    is not simply me trying to malign anything coming from Microsoft, I just don't
    see EOT-Lite as a very good proposal, mainly because it's taking an  API from
    an existing product and using it to define the behavior for a standard. ZOT seems
    to me like it provides better obfuscation and is more efficient and the .webfont
    proposal makes the license details more evident to anyone poking around with the
    font file.  \r\n\r\nThe advantage of EOT-Lite over new formats is that it gives
    some form of backwards compatibility with IE6, IE7 and IE8 which supported EOT-formatted
    TTF fonts, so authors would only need to use one version of a font to get some
    form of cross-browser support.  No version of IE loads EOT-formatted CFF fonts,
    so this isn't really an advantage for CFF-only font vendors like Adobe or Hoefler
    & Frere-Jones.\r\n\r\nIn some sense it boils down to whether the advantages of
    having a better format outweigh the disadvantages of web authors having to support
    two font formats to fully support previous versions of IE (i.e. new format plus
    EOT).  \r\n"
  created: '2009-07-27 12:53:18'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > Now, in fonts there\u2019s no central organization with legal authority
    along the lines of, say, the Writer\u2019s Guild. But there is SOTA. There is
    AtypI. I think it\u2019s time for the top people at those organizations to get
    political.</cite>\r\n\r\nRich -- I have heard your frequent call for some kind
    of single representative voice for the type \"industry.\" And I don't necessarily
    disagree with the sentiments, instincts, or passion behind this call.\r\n\r\nWith
    all due respect, however: in directing your call toward SOTA, I'm afraid you've
    misunderstood the nature of the organization. As has been previously stated, SOTA
    is not, and does not purport to be, representative of the \"industry.\" \r\n\r\nI
    can understand why, because of recent visibility of SOTA and its annual conference,
    one might look to this organization as a potential for collective representation,
    but I don't think it's a proper fit. \r\n\r\nThe SOTA board, which you can see
    at Christopher's link above, is currently composed of 12 part-time volunteers,
    seven of whom are basically self-employed individuals. Two are full-time educators.
    And three members happen to work for larger font-related companies (but none are
    on the board as representatives of these corporations). By my reckoning, only
    five members are published type designers (three of whom are ending their terms
    next month). \r\n\r\nThe membership of SOTA is essentially a club, not a professional
    organization. I think \"Typographic Aficionados\" says it all. The current membership
    numbers 38 non-student members. Of those, as near as I can tell, about 17 are
    type designers or otherwise directly involved in the font development business
    (and this number includes the board members cited above).\r\n\r\nSpeaking purely
    personally, I do not think SOTA is a position -- organizationally, constitutionally,
    or resource-wise -- to become a political voice for the industry. I think SOTA
    can and should campaign for and provide opportunities for public and community
    awareness. But I don't think that political representation or advocacy fall within
    its purview.\r\n\r\nWhile SOTA enjoys good, close relations with, and widespread
    support from, much of the professional type community, I doubt any majority of
    that professional community would be willing to grant SOTA any political authority
    to advocate on its behalf.\r\n\r\nTo be clear: these are my personal views. I
    am not speaking for SOTA, and I am one of those whose board term is ending. "
  created: '2009-07-27 15:17:53'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@all \r\n\r\nWithout having as yet read any of the posts subsequent to my
    last suggestion, I have been advised by email that what I am suggesting will not
    bear fruit.\r\nI am taking that advice. I tossed out an idea - a possible way
    of approaching the problem. Even if the consensus is that it's a dumb idea, I
    hope that it at least provides food for thought because the problem still remains.\r\nI
    will continue to be a booster for the new EOT because it promises the most in
    the shortest amount of time.\r\nEvery profession has it's own internal dynamics,
    and not being a font-producer myself (although you never know!), I do not presume
    to tell anybody how to run their professional lives.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2009-07-27 16:01:32'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Rich -- On a more constructive note: I do think that the [[http://www.atypi.org|ATypI]]
    is potentially a more fertile ground for your call to take root -- especially
    given their history and roots as a much more trade-oriented professional organization.\r\n\r\nYou
    can read about their purpose here: http://www.atypi.org/05_About_us  \r\n\r\nAnd
    you can also download a PDF of their current governing statutes, where I direct
    your attention to Article 2, (a)-(d). You'll also find that their membership is
    an actual voting body.\r\n\r\nI think ATypI is more constitutionally disposed
    to the kind of unified, \"industry\" advocacy that you urge. Although, I suppose
    that they may face similar organizational and resource challenges.\r\n\r\nI believe
    that Tom Phinney and Si Daniels are the two ATypI board members who participate
    on Typophile most frequently.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-27 16:06:47'
- author:
    name: outrasfontes
    picture: 112120
  body: "@jdaggett\r\n\r\nI understand that ZOT can be even more sofisticated and
    I apreciate Erik and Tal's efforts on the .webfont proposal. IMO, all that proposals
    look good for type designers/vendors. But tell me, what is the big deal in supporting
    multiple formats in the next FF versions? I mean, multiple formats was never a
    problem on www. You din't have any problem in supporting naked font linking on
    FF3.5 without any protection (and sorry, the type comunity did'nt like that idea).
    Supporting EOT Lite AND ZOT can be a way to let foundries, web designers and authors
    chose what is the best for them.\r\n\r\nBest!"
  created: '2009-07-27 16:23:34'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Kent, I don''t think ATypI is any more representative of font makers than
    SoTA, despite its origins as an industrial cartel and its impressive looking statutes.
    Like SoTA, ATypI has an open membership policy, which means than anyone interested
    in type is permitted and encouraged to join the association: type designers, font
    makers and font vendors, yes, but also graphic designers, teachers, students,
    afficionados, etc. As a basic rule of thumb, I''d say that an association cannot
    claim to represent a profession if its voting membership contains both members
    of that profession <em>and their customers.</em> It would be like saying that
    an association open to everyone who has teeth represents the dental profession.'
  created: '2009-07-27 17:32:25'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "John Daggett: <em> No version of IE loads EOT-formatted CFF fonts, so this
    isn\u2019t really an advantage for CFF-only font vendors like Adobe or Hoefler
    & Frere-Jones.</em>\r\n\r\nIts not clear yet what Microsoft intend to do with
    regard to implementation problems that they have described as 'bugs'. Knowing
    how MS tracks and addresses bugs, a hotfix is always an option for a critical
    bug. Of course, what makes a bug critical is the user base and the potential impact
    -- both the negative impact of the bug <em>and the positive impact of fixing it</em>
    -- and this means that a bug that wasn't critical for the past ten years might
    suddenly become critical today.\r\n\r\nPersonally, if I were MS, I would be doing
    everything possible to undermine your rejection of an EOT-derived solution, including
    hotfixing IE back to version 6.\r\n\r\nA little over a week ago, I expressed to
    Ascender what I thought they would need to do to get other font makers to support
    and license fonts for EOT Lite . Our concerns about EOT -- beyond the weakness
    of the protections it offered, which we now realise were stronger than anything
    else we're going to get the non-IE browsers to agree to -- were mainly around
    poor tool support and the awkwardness of building .eot generation into our existing
    mastering and delivery workflows. Tal and Erik's .webfont format was specifically
    designed to avoid such problems, which is one of the reasons why it was so enthusiastically
    supported by font makers. As I told Ascender, if they wanted font makers to sign
    up to EOT Lite, they would need to address the tool issue in a way that makes
    .eot creation as easy for foundries as .webfont creation. Less than a week later,
    I'm beta testing that tool, so I think the will to make EOT Lite a serious contender
    is definitely there.\r\n\r\n<em>In some sense it boils down to whether the advantages
    of having a better format outweigh the disadvantages of web authors having to
    support two font formats to fully support previous versions of IE (i.e. new format
    plus EOT).</em>\r\n\r\nI'd agree with that, but obviously the analysis changes
    if EOT Lite becomes better. Which is why it is in Microsoft's interest to hotfix
    their bugs."
  created: '2009-07-27 17:54:13'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>This is not simply me trying to malign anything coming from Microsoft,
    I just don\u2019t see EOT-Lite as a very good proposal, mainly because it\u2019s
    taking an API from an existing product and using it to define the behavior for
    a standard. [ ... ]</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>The advantage of EOT-Lite over new formats
    is that it gives some form of backwards compatibility with IE6, IE7 and IE8 which
    supported EOT-formatted TTF fonts, so authors would only need to use one version
    of a font to get some form of cross-browser support. No version of IE loads EOT-formatted
    CFF fonts, so this isn\u2019t really an advantage for CFF-only font vendors like
    Adobe or Hoefler & Frere-Jones.</cite>\r\n\r\nJohn, you're leaving out a big advantage
    of EOT Lite: It's already out there. I realize it was Ascender's gambit all along
    to push it out into the world as aggressively as they have, but it's there, nevertheless.\r\n\r\nTo
    describe is as \"taking an API from an existing product and using it to define
    the behavior for a standard\" might be a well-intentioned description on your
    part, but it seems contrived from my POV. We're talking about a fairly simple
    and open font wrapper. It's easily understood, anyone can create them, and it
    contains enough protection to satisfy most foundries (I think). I am just not
    getting why you see it as such a completely different animal from webfont or ZOT.\r\n\r\nThere
    are potential problems with it working with CFF, but Microsoft has motivation
    to address them. Obviously we're looking at that very carefully.\r\n\r\nMy point
    is not to tell you that we should end the debate right here and pick EOT Lite...
    I'm just not convinced by your (and others') reasons for taking it off the table
    so quickly. It still looks like a reasonable contender to me."
  created: '2009-07-27 17:56:42'
- author:
    name: outrasfontes
    picture: 112120
  body: "@ John Hudson\r\n\r\nMaybe it is time to see wich are the foundries/vendors/distributors
    are supporting the EOT Lite proposal.\r\n\r\nI can see already annouced on the
    web [<a href=\"http://www.ascendercorp.com/pr/2009-07-15/>1</a>] [<a href=\"http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-font/2009JulSep/\">2</a>]:\r\n\r\nAscender
    Corp.\r\nMonotype Imaging\r\nMicrosoft\r\nBigelow & Holmes\r\nTypodermic\r\nURW++\r\nBoutros
    International\r\nChank\r\nLetterPerfect\r\nOutrasFontes\r\nParaType\r\nTiro Typeworks\r\nTour
    De Force\r\n\r\nAm I missing anyone?\r\n\r\nWe should notice that the .webfont
    proposal (by Erik and Tal) are also supported by very respected foundries around
    the globe and, despite the passions involved, I still think that it's not an either/or
    situation. Multiple solutions can live in peace together, bacause most of the
    type designers/vendors interests are not so different, I think. All of us want
    to find a way to protect our font IDs, so we can still provide high quality products,
    feed our families and pay our bills. ;)\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-27 17:57:45'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@jdaggett\r\n\"<em>No version of IE loads EOT-formatted CFF fonts, so this
    isn\u2019t really an advantage for CFF-only font vendors like Adobe or Hoefler
    & Frere-Jones.</em>\"\r\n\r\nJust to key in on this part of your post:\r\nFirst,
    the statement is incorrect. The set of fonts that Adobe markets for web use, <a
    href=\"http://store1.adobe.com/cfusion/store/html/index.cfm?store=OLS-US&event=displayFontPackage&code=1507\">Web
    Fonts Pack</a> are TTF. (A bargain at $69.99! Although I can't, today, post them
    on a web server in raw form.) In other words, Adobe seems quite willing to adapt
    it's product line to the realities of the market. To characterize any font-producer
    as \"CFF-only\", as if they are hand-cuffed and would not fall all over themselves
    to offer TTF or EOT versions of their fonts should a demand develop, is preposterous.
    OTF's are being converted to TTF's and EOT's for use on the web as I write. You
    know this.\r\nSecond, in what way, shape, or form is this an appopriate or even
    a wise criteria upon which to decide whether to support one file format or another?
    Browsers are conduits - everyone using that conduit must adapt to it, or back
    away.\r\nBecause of FireFox and Safari's raw-only support for font-linking, the
    problem we have today is that vendors ARE backing away.\r\nAnd I must say, this
    is exactly the kind of argument I spoke of in my previous post. Now, Adobe and
    H&FJ are being held up as the \"poster children\" whose interests you are out
    to protect. If you were to ask them, I'm sure they'd say their interests would
    be best protected by FireFox immediately issuing a patch that 1) disables raw
    font linking 2) enables EOT.\r\nHow about that? Is that going to happen?\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nrich\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-27 18:04:24'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "If \"support\" is defined as something like \"agree with the spirit of the
    proposal; examining with careful consideration,\" you can add Adobe.\r\n\r\n(I
    think that is more or less what the \"support\" list for webfont means.)"
  created: '2009-07-27 18:05:43'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@jdaggett\r\n\r\nBTW - thanks for posting your views here, in the lion's
    den, so to speak. Hah!\r\nI think it's greatly appreciated by all.\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2009-07-27 18:15:49'
- author:
    name: outrasfontes
    picture: 112120
  body: "Yes, Christopher. That's what I thought when I said support :)\r\n\r\nMaybe
    we can chance the ambiguous word \"support\" by \"agree with the spirit of the
    proposal\", so...\r\n\r\n\r\nFoundries/vendors/distributors that seems to agree
    with the spirit of the EOT Lite proposal:\r\n\r\nAscender Corp.\r\nAdobe\r\nMonotype
    Imaging\r\nMicrosoft\r\nBigelow & Holmes\r\nTypodermic\r\nURW++\r\nBoutros International\r\nChank\r\nLetterPerfect\r\nOutrasFontes\r\nParaType\r\nTiro
    Typeworks\r\nTour De Force\r\n\r\nAm I missing anyone?\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-27 18:20:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "During the web fonts panel at TypeCon, Ivo from FontShop indicated that they
    would license for EOT Lite as well as for .webfont, so that might indicate that
    they \u2018agree with the spirit of the proposal\u2019, but I would not presume
    that and you may wish to contact them before adding them to any lists."
  created: '2009-07-27 18:33:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "@JDaggett\r\n\r\n>mainly because it\u2019s taking an API from an existing
    product and using it to define the behavior for a standard.\r\n\r\nWhy is this
    a problem? What harm or damage results? I don't know what went on in the early
    browser wars between Netscape and Internet Explorer, but I don't think Microsoft
    ever had any problems with adopting good ideas from others, to say the least.
    Here if a kernel of EOT--now modified--is a quick and satisfactory way to get
    fonts on the web, why not support it? Going forward, the code is not going to
    be proprietary to any company, I gather, so what's the issue?\r\n\r\nAlso a factor
    you don't discuss, is the speed at which all this can happen. This is important
    both to benefit internet users, and for the font business. I don't know the technical
    issues, but if a satisfactory solution can be implemented in a year, and a slightly
    better one will take five years, I think there's a good argument for going for
    the quick and satisfactory solution, and then upgrading it over the years. \r\n\r\nAlso
    if alternatives are compatible, then other better solutions can be implemented
    later.\r\n\r\nWhy not get this done now, if it can be done satisfactorily, and
    work on improvements and alternatives later?\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2009-07-27 19:06:16'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "jdaggett -- <cite>No version of IE loads EOT-formatted CFF fonts, so this
    isn\u2019t really an advantage for CFF-only font vendors like Adobe or Hoefler
    & Frere-Jones.</cite>\r\n\r\nNot that I am a friend of EOT (Lite) but: The fact
    that IE doesn't support CFF-OT-based EOTs is less of a problem than is the ugly
    rendering of CFF-OT fonts on the Windows platform, see <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/60281\"
    target=\"_blank\">this discussion</a> and <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/59798\"
    target=\"_blank\">this earlier one</a>. In some cases the result is hardly legible
    at the crucial sizes -- text sizes. And this is not a question of font quality
    since high-quality fonts are affected too. Possibly it is not even \"recommended\"
    to serve CFF-OT fonts for web use, no matter which web font format will win the
    race.\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-27 20:10:19'
- author:
    name: outrasfontes
    picture: 112120
  body: "@ John Hudson\r\n\r\n<cite>FontShop... \r\nbut I would not presume that and
    you may wish to contact them before adding them to any lists</cite>\r\n\r\nI would
    not add them to any list before it's clearly announced/expressed for themselves
    on the web.\r\n\r\nPlease note that I'm not trying to make any \u201Cofficial
    list of supporters\u201D. I would not have any authority or even intention to
    do that. I only believe that pointing the parts interested in the EOT Lite proposal
    (more than the quantity of them) could help to analyze the current state of the
    discussion (always moving ahead).\r\n\r\nDo you think it is a good idea?"
  created: '2009-07-27 20:44:58'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@william berkson\r\n\r\n\"<em>Also a factor you don\u2019t discuss, is the
    speed at which all this can happen. This is important both to benefit internet
    users, and for the font business. I don\u2019t know the technical issues, but
    if a satisfactory solution can be implemented in a year, and a slightly better
    one will take five years, I think there\u2019s a good argument for going for the
    quick and satisfactory solution, and then upgrading it over the years.</em>\"\r\n\r\nWhat
    you are saying is plain old common sense. But common sense hasn't cut it in this
    debate so far. Workin' on it, though.\r\nTo be clear: the benefits of the new
    EOT lite are not hypothetical.\r\nCross-browser implementation of EOT lite will
    do two things:\r\n1) It brings web fonts, as a reliable technique, roughly 5 years
    faster than a newly drafted specification. If time is a consideration, as I agree
    with you it should be, hundreds of millions of Internet users will benefit 5 years
    sooner.\r\n2) It also, at the same time, and as the growing list of font-producers
    who will license for the new EOT suggests, solve the licensing problems that have
    so far denied web designers the use of retail fonts.\r\n\r\nTechnically, support
    for EOT lite means having the browser treat a file with an .EOT extension as if
    it had a .TTF extension. There is little else to it of any technical consequence.
    In fact, those browser makers who have so far withheld their support, concede
    this.\r\n\r\nI know you have a deep academic, research-oriented background. (We
    met in passing at TypeCon in the informal discussions after the panel on reading
    research. I was the guy with Wet Macular Degeneration, if you recall.) \r\nInterestingly,
    Bert Bos, who was the co-creator of Cascading Style Sheets along with the fellow
    who is now EOT lite's most arch opponent, Opera CTO H\xE5kon Wium Lie, agrees
    strongly with your \"build on what exists\" philosophy.\r\nSome years ago he wrote
    a paper about what constitutes a sound approach to drafting standards and the
    section entitled <a href=\"http://www.w3.org/People/Bos/DesignGuide/use-what-is-there.html\">Use
    What Exists</a> lines up firmly in favor of what you suggest.\r\nBert is still
    at the World Wide Web Consortium and still weighs in occasionally on various things
    on the Web Fonts mailing list.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2009-07-27 20:59:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Richard, of course I remember meeting you, and from your welcome presence
    here on Typophile. I am glad to here that one of the movers on these issues is
    bringing a perspective of the process that is best for progress. That might help
    break the logjam. \r\n\r\n(I have to remember that word for kerning!)"
  created: '2009-07-27 21:45:09'
- author:
    name: jdaggett
  body: "@John Hudson\r\n\r\n<cite>Personally, if I were MS, I would be doing everything
    possible to undermine your rejection of an EOT-derived solution, including hotfixing
    IE back to version 6.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhich is precisely my point, MS could just
    as easily ship a hotfix to support a non-EOT format in IE versions back to IE6,
    the code to do this is no more or less complex.  Personally, I hope they ship
    hotfixes to fix CFF support because it holds <strong>all browsers</strong> back
    on Windows, not just IE.\r\n\r\nAll the \"protection mechanisms\" that have been
    proposed center on origin-restriction when linking and the obfuscation of font
    data.  EOT-Lite effectively allows cross-site linking in current versions of IE
    because it doesn't enforce same-origin restrictions and an EOT font with a null
    root string can be linked to from anywhere.  Would it be better for MS to implement
    a same-origin restriction on fonts with a new format?\r\n\r\nJohn, you seem to
    want to always put things in terms of a grand war between Microsoft and the evil
    forces of direct font linking.  If it's really a war than like all wars we all
    lose in one sense.  \r\n\r\nDirect linking of TTF/OTF came about because it made
    linking to fonts easy, plain and simple. There will always be situations where
    direct linking to fonts is simpler and easier for authors, situations where the
    fonts are not intended to be restricted use or situations where the font designers
    are simply willing to use the legal system to enforce their copyrights instead
    of requiring garden fences built into the font file format.  Direct linking to
    TTF/OTF fonts does not mean those fonts can't be lightly obfuscated, for example
    by changing the contents of the name table to produce a font that's effectively
    unusable as a desktop font but is still completely valid and works as a web font.
    \ The Typekit and Typotheque services illustrate this point.  Protection does
    not <strong>require</strong> a file-based obfuscated format.\r\n\r\n@Richard Fink
    \r\n\r\nSure, point taken, Adobe does sell some TTF fonts.  But they are a predominantly
    CFF font shop, as are other font vendors. Switching to a TTF tool chain is not
    as simple as you imply.  Adobe stated this clearly in response to a similar\r\nremark
    you made on the www-font mailing list.\r\n\r\nAs to your second point, all I'm
    saying is that EOT-Lite does not guarantee backwards compatibility in IE for CFF
    fonts.  Pooh-pooh the point if you like but for some font vendors I would imagine
    that's an important consideration.\r\n\r\nNote: Firefox is not written FireFox.\r\n\r\n@William
    Berkson \r\n\r\nIn this case EOT is a documented format [1] but not a documented
    set of behaviors, separating how it works in IE now vs. how it should work in
    other browsers is not as simple as others imply.  Should non-IE implementations
    just view the EOT as a header of padding bytes prepended to the font data and
    simply load the font data?  Or do those fields, some of which are based on data
    in the font and some of which are not, affect usage? Are there implications of
    that defined behavior?  For example, the original EOT submission blurred the meaning
    of the OpenType embedding bits to imply behavior within the browser (i.e. with
    Print/Preview set the user agent must not allow editing with a font).  That sounds
    minor but a little thing like that has big implications for implementations, since
    browsers don't typically implement \"fallback when font is readonly\".  Since
    my guess is the closest thing to a real spec is the source code of the t2embed
    library, figuring these things out takes time which in a way negates the \"get
    it done now\" aspect of EOT-Lite.\r\n\r\nIn many ways the first Ascender proposal
    was better, to simply obfuscate table tags.  It's simple to understand what the
    proposal is and what needs to be done to implement it.  EOT-Lite is a trickier
    thing to define.\r\n\r\nI think any of these proposals could be in shipping implementations
    in less than a year.\r\n\r\n@outrasfontes\r\n\r\nIt's not a big deal to support
    multiple formats but not ones that aren't well-defined, like EOT-Lite.  Up until
    now the idea under discussion was to have one format that all browsers implemented.
    \ That's easier to standardize than two formats, one now, one later.  And supporting
    a single format is less work for font vendors.\r\n\r\n[1] http://www.w3.org/Submission/EOT/\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-27 23:53:37'
- author:
    name: jdaggett
  body: "@Richard Fink\r\n\r\n<cite>Cross-browser implementation of EOT lite will
    do two things:\r\n1) It brings web fonts, as a reliable technique, roughly 5 years
    faster than a newly drafted specification. If time is a consideration, as I agree
    with you it should be, hundreds of millions of Internet users will benefit 5 years
    sooner.</cite>\r\n\r\nJust curious why five years?  Non-IE browsers are on 1-year
    replacement cycles, and IE8 is replacing IE7 at a similar rate.  IE6 is it's own,
    oh so very, very special case."
  created: '2009-07-27 23:58:57'
- author:
    name: outrasfontes
    picture: 112120
  body: "@daggett\r\n\r\n<cite>It\u2019s not a big deal to support multiple formats
    but not ones that aren\u2019t well-defined, like EOT-Lite. Up until now the idea
    under discussion was to have one format that all browsers implemented. That\u2019s
    easier to standardize than two formats, one now, one later. And supporting a single
    format is less work for font vendors.</cite>\r\n\r\nWell, thank you for answering
    and I hope that soon you can solve all your questions with the proposers of the
    new format. \r\n\r\nBTW, I tried to organize a list of font vendors that seem
    to agree with the spirit of the EOT Lite format, as described by Ascender. Most
    of them declared to be analyzing the technical issues involved: http://outrasfontes.tumblr.com/post/150248691/eot-lite-list\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-28 01:36:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "@jdaggett\r\n\r\nI am encouraged that you don't see this on your part as
    an \"us vs them\" issue, and also that you think that any of these solutions can
    be implemented in a year. \r\n\r\nAs I said, I don't understand the technical
    issues, but I am getting the feeling that the problem is really getting the leading
    browsers, especially you at Mozilla Firefox and Microsoft Internet Explorer to
    agree on a technical solution that provides a similar \"garden fence,\" as you
    put well, it for web fonts. \r\n\r\nI am guessing that most digital foundries
    will be content with any fence that provides a clear barrier and warning for the
    honest, even if it, like garden fences, is easy to breach. That's for the reason,
    as I wrote earlier, that only public use will be enforced by digital foundries.
    But if a foundry wants more protection or a site designer wants greater ease of
    use I guess the services like Typekit and Kernest will be there in any case. \r\n\r\nI
    just think that the sooner some kind of garden fence is agreed on, the sooner
    digital foundries can write their EULAs, and they will have a sigh of relief,
    and the web will start looking a lot better and more diverse as far as typography.\r\n\r\nSo
    now I'm thinking the main issue is not, what garden fence is best, but what can
    you and Microsoft agree on, as you two dominate the market. I hope you all can
    resolve this soon.  \r\n\r\n   "
  created: '2009-07-28 01:53:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "John Daggett: <em>Which is precisely my point, MS could just as easily ship
    a hotfix to support a non-EOT format in IE versions back to IE6</em>\r\n\r\nThat
    wouldn't be a hotfix, it would be retroactive addition of a new feature. Non-support
    for a non-EOT format in the older browser versions is not a bug. There are genuine
    bugs, and these should be fixed. But as Sylvain has pointed out on the W3C list,
    this is Microsoft's problem not anyone else's.\r\n\r\nIf you move quickly, Firefox
    can have better .eot support than Internet Explorer. :)"
  created: '2009-07-28 02:46:31'
- author:
    name: jdaggett
  body: "@John Hudson\r\n\r\nHow is adding support for EOT-formatted CFF fonts not
    adding a new feature?  Hotfixes are typically gated on risk, not on a definition
    of \"feature\".  Adding support for a simpler font format is far lower risk than
    adding support for CFF.\r\n\r\nThese are indeed Microsoft's problems but the argument
    is being made that EOT-Lite is better because other formats can't be supported
    for \"years\"."
  created: '2009-07-28 02:57:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "John Daggett: <em>Direct linking of TTF/OTF came about because it made linking
    to fonts easy, plain and simple. There will always be situations where direct
    linking to fonts is simpler and easier for authors, situations where the fonts
    are not intended to be restricted use or situations where the font designers are
    simply willing to use the legal system to enforce their copyrights instead of
    requiring garden fences built into the font file format. Direct linking to TTF/OTF
    fonts does not mean those fonts can\u2019t be lightly obfuscated, for example
    by changing the contents of the name table to produce a font that\u2019s effectively
    unusable as a desktop font but is still completely valid and works as a web font.
    The Typekit and Typotheque services illustrate this point. Protection does not
    require a file-based obfuscated format.</em>\r\n\r\n1) As has been explained many
    times, one of the problems that font makers and vendors have with naked font linking
    is that it exposes all existing fonts to casual misuse in an environment in which
    the majority of users are unaware of the origins of the fonts on their systems,
    unaware that these fonts are licenses, and unaware of the terms of those licenses.
    The desire for a distinct web font format is to make a clear distinction, anticipating
    the web as the major typographic medium for the future, between what we now think
    of a \u2018desktop fonts\u2019 but which we may eventually think of as \u2018legacy
    fonts\u2019, and a new packaging of font data in which licensing, serialisation,
    customer linked data, etc. are consistently present and available to both the
    customer and the foundry.\r\n\r\nI know a lot about fonts, but I couldn't tell
    you off hand which of the fonts currently on my system might be legitimately uploaded
    to a web server under current licenses and which might not. It would take me a
    lot of time to find this out, and that despite the fact that, unlike most users,
    I know where to look or who to ask.\r\n\r\nI consider this distinction between
    existing fonts and new web fonts to be of general benefit -- it makes even free
    licenses more obvious to the user than they are now -- especially when combined
    with other proposed features of web fonts such as format compression. [For the
    reasons already discussed on the W3C list, server-side compression is not sufficiently
    implemented or implementable by all web authors; by the same token, the lack of
    compression in EOT Lite should be one of your arguments against the format, although
    we know how to solve that: accept the Monotype offer to release the MTX compression
    under a suitable free license.] Yes, naked font linking is easy, plain and simple,
    and this is why it makes casual misuse of existing fonts easy, plain and simple.\r\n\r\n2)
    Server-side obfuscation such as Typekit practices, like server-side compression,
    is not a sufficient answer, since it relies on third party services to implement.
    Format obfuscation provides a minimal level of protection against casual misuse
    that the majority of font makers can accept. This means that we can have a single
    interoperable format that is a suitable baseline for all manner of font licenses,
    rather than multiple formats that might be suitable to some licenses but not to
    others; additional server-side protections can be offered on top of this basic
    format obfuscation."
  created: '2009-07-28 03:06:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>How is adding support for EOT-formatted CFF fonts not adding a new feature?</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    EOT format is supposed to be flavour-neutral; ergo, failure to support CFF-flavour
    EOT is a bug. The fact that there is nothing in the system level support that
    would make support for CFF fonts untenable in IE, while contemporary MS apps support
    CFF fonts, indicates that this is specifically an IE bug.\r\n\r\n<em>...the argument
    is being made that EOT-Lite is better because other formats can\u2019t be supported
    for \u201Cyears\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nIt's not an argument I've made. I've heard
    everything from one year to ten years cited as the time it will take to implement
    a new format across new versions of all major browsers. I'm inclined to think
    it will be shorter rather than longer, for the reasons you identify.\r\n\r\nI
    do think there are significant backwards compatibility benefits of EOT Lite even
    if one ignores the CFF font problem in IE. There are a lot of fonts in TTF format
    that are licensed for or ready to be licensed for EOT Lite. There are some foundries
    that are very PostScript-centric -- not just Adobe, but others whose primary market
    is professional graphic designers --, on the other hand most serious web designers
    already understand that TrueType renders better, especially on Windows. It is
    this backwards compatibility that I believe is the best argument in favour of
    EOT Lite. That backwards compatibility is far from perfect, but it is real.\r\n\r\nI
    think it is web authors and designers -- not font developers -- whom you will
    need to convince that this backwards compatibility is not worth embracing. I think
    most font makers will be happy with any format that isn't naked font linking and
    which offers the minimal levels of protection against misuse that we have asked
    for on the W3C list."
  created: '2009-07-28 03:20:01'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John Hudson:I know a lot about fonts, but I couldn\u2019t tell you off hand
    which of the fonts currently on my system might be legitimately uploaded to a
    web server under current licenses and which might not. \r\n\r\nOh, I can tell
    you, None you didn't make yourself and permit for such use, none you received
    from others are permitted for serving are they? That is how simple it is and what
    all of 'our side' must enforce. You won't get web fonts e-mailed, you get urls.
    Sans new format and until a new format is released, and after it has been undressed
    by time, we will always have to enforce this. Fonts today, and will be forever,
    licensed for a number of cpus and a number of embedding permissions. Print happens,
    and it must go on with licensed IP. Nothing technical is going to stop 'a nobody'
    from serving a cpu-licensed fonts contrary to print licensing agreements, but
    it is very legally prosecutable because locating and serving fonts from a server
    does not happen 'automatically', it's a human act. And as such, only 'nobodies'
    will be able to do it, same as print, where 'nobodies' copy and compose with unlicensed
    fonts. If they become somebody, we find 'em.\r\n\r\nUntil someone changes the
    rules or market and makes all the \"IP somebodies\" into \"IP nobodies\", there
    had better be a table to tell the difference in detail, a font format distinction
    will only last so long for this purpose, and probably not nearly as long as OT's
    undressing took. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-28 15:04:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Question: Is it possible to put in the web site code for specifying fonts
    to use one for one browser and one for another? If so, Firefox and IE could have
    their own preferences, and foundries could still have the ''garden fence'' protection
    for their IP one more than one browser. '
  created: '2009-07-28 15:21:03'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Is it possible to put in the web site code for specifying fonts to
    use one for one browser and one for another?</cite>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s how all
    these new font services manage to work cross-platform."
  created: '2009-07-28 15:25:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Thanks James. If it''s not too complicated to specify, then Mozilla and Microsoft
    don''t have to agree, which (above) I thought was the issue. Microsoft can use
    EOT or EOT lite, Mozilla can use .webfont or zot, Fontlab can give us output for
    both, and we''re up and running. Not ideal, as a common standard is better, but
    still workable. '
  created: '2009-07-28 16:35:17'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@jdaggett\r\n\r\n\"<em>Just curious why five years? Non-IE browsers are on
    1-year replacement cycles, and IE8 is replacing IE7 at a similar rate. IE6 is
    it\u2019s own, oh so very, very special case.</em>\"\r\n\r\nBusted!\r\nFor days
    I've wondered \"why hasn't anybody asked me to justify the '5 year' estimate yet?\"
    It had to be you, naturally.\r\nAs I think you suspect, it's because 5 years is
    a nice round number that, (I truly do believe), is close enough to the truth to
    convey the severity of NOT acting on EOT lite. LOL! But it could actually be <strong>longer</strong>,
    depending. I find your own quick analysis a little loose-goosey, too.\r\nWhen
    the first Ascender proposal appeared, Chris Wilson (former Platform Architect
    for IE) wrote <a href=\"http://blog.fontembedding.com/post/2009/06/10/New-Web-Fonts-Proposal.aspx\">this</a>
    on the Ascender blog:\r\n\"<em>* do the math - figure it's 2 years until the next
    version of IE comes out given current track record, and it takes 18 months for
    IE to convert 50% of its users to a new version (see adoption data from marketshare.hitslink.com).
    Even if you presume IE continues to drop share at 10% a year, AND IE puts support
    for the new (as-yet-not-defined) format into their next release, you're looking
    at 3.5 years to get support and get it deployed to the bulk of IE's market. (This
    presumes, of course, that other browsers implement it and get it deployed to 100%
    of their market in that time - then overall support would be 2/3 to 3/4 of the
    entire public.)</em>\"\r\n\r\nWhat Chris didn't go into is that getting that new
    format out to the remaining 1/3 or 1/4 of the remaining public would be a long,
    drawn-out affair taking several years. And his analysis is also predicated on
    a new font format making it into the next cycle of IE, which is wildly optimistic,
    I feel. You have to add another two years for each cycle missed.\r\nGranted, a
    better guesstimate can and should be generated. I'll take it on as homework and
    report. I'll be happy to change the \"5\" to \"too damned many\" in the meantime,
    if you so demand it. ;)\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nrich\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-28 17:28:54'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "The separate code for different browsers is what these services currently
    do, and what web developers, whenever they can, want to avoid going forward.\r\n\r\nThroughout
    these conversations here on typophile, I think I've lost track of all the parties
    goals/concerns.\r\n\r\nIs this a valid summary?:\r\n\r\nMS = not sure.\r\n\r\nW3C
    = Want to avoid implementing proprietary MS-centric standards as much as possible\r\n\r\nMozilla
    = Want to avoid implementing DRM-esque features\r\n\r\nOpera/Chrome/Safari/etc
    = not sure if they are part of the conversation\r\n\r\nType Foundries = various
    concerns ranging from various degrees of DRM (from slight file name obfuscation
    to full on DRM) and font formats (to accommodate various degrees of meta data
    [and other stuff?])\r\n\r\nWeb Developers = Want something easy that works now.\r\n\r\nFont
    'pirates' = They don't care one way or the other. \r\n\r\nWeb Font Delivery Service
    Sites (Typekit, Kernest, etc.) = They're happy with all of the debate as that
    gives them a reason to exist (simplifying the whole system via a service)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-28 17:56:16'
- author:
    name: outrasfontes
    picture: 112120
  body: "@aluminum\r\n<cite>Web Font Delivery Service Sites (Typekit, Kernest, etc.)
    = They\u2019re happy with all of the debate as that gives them a reason to exist
    (simplifying the whole system via a service)</cite>\r\n\r\n\r\nGood point.\r\n\r\nSome
    people could also argue that this world is not the ideal one, so we should support
    a mission to Mars. An others will strongly defend that assumption saying \"stop
    the Earth now!\".\r\n\r\nI tend to agree with Richard, maybe we should take another
    look at .WTF\r\n\r\nSorry, just trying to bring some humor back here. :)"
  created: '2009-07-28 20:36:54'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Web Font Delivery Service Sites\u2026They\u2019re happy with all of
    the debate as that gives them a reason to exist</cite>\r\n\r\nThere\u2019s more
    to it than that. These services would turn up anyway, because the web allows us
    to tip the scales of commerce a little more in favor of type designers. Until
    now digital type vendors have had little choice but to sell licenses that never
    expire and can be used for anything and had to rely on the honor system to ensure
    clients actually bought a license for every workstation. Web font services bring
    back a market in which type wears out, prolific users must buy more fonts, and
    for perhaps the first time, make catching pirates easy. After seeing what these
    new services plan to offer I\u2019ve already decided that in the future I\u2019ll
    be charging a premium for traditional licenses, allowing no web embedding, and
    require web use to be done via a service."
  created: '2009-07-28 20:54:14'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "John, Web pages are made by <em>Web developers</em>, and the ones who are
    going to sign on to Web fonts aren\u2019t using Internet Explorer for Windows.\r\n\r\n\u2014
    \ \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-07-28 21:26:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>Thanks James. If it\u2019s not too complicated to specify, then
    Mozilla and Microsoft don\u2019t have to agree, which (above) I thought was the
    issue. Microsoft can use EOT or EOT lite, Mozilla can use .webfont or zot....</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    browser makers don't <em>have</em> to agree on an interoperable format, but they
    want to, and so do lots of other people for whom maintaining support for multiple
    formats is an expense: font makers and vendors, web designers, served typography
    services like Typekit. An interoperable format benefits everyone.\r\n\r\nThe most
    recent discussion on the W3C list indicates that everyone is agreed that a format
    along the .webfont or ZOT lines is desirable and people are willing to work together
    on this as a format. The debate now is whether EOT Lite will be an interim interoperable
    format.\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-28 23:03:06'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Web font services bring back a market in which type wears out\"\r\n\r\nThe
    catch is that the web font services are based on non-service technology. So they
    are merely a convenience--not a requirement--from a technical standpoint.\r\n\r\nYour
    'licenses that wear out' comment is interesting though. I can certainly see the
    appeal from the foundry POV. But, alas, there is no inherent technical implementation
    at this time that would any way force the consumer to adopt that model. \r\n\r\n\"and
    require web use to be done via a service.\"\r\n\r\nAh! Now that's an interesting
    angle. It uses a EULA requirement rather than a technical one. I can see that
    being an interesting route to take. It might work. \r\n\r\nI have to assume once
    the dust settles a bit MyFonts will implement such a system and we'll migrate
    back to that being the primary provider. \r\n\r\n\"and the ones who are going
    to sign on to Web fonts aren\u2019t using Internet Explorer for Windows\"\r\n\r\nGRAPHIC
    designers are in the Mac-only club. We web designers are fairly platform agnostic.
    ;)\r\n\r\nThat said, it's often true that we really don't give a damn what a site
    does in IE6 anymore (at least, not until the client yells at us. ;o) "
  created: '2009-07-28 23:04:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>...there had better be a table to tell the difference in detail...</em>\r\n\r\n100%
    agreement.\r\n\r\n<em>...a font format distinction will only last so long for
    this purpose...</em>\r\n\r\nThe font format distinction provides a minimal level
    of protection against <em>casual misuse;</em> it does not, and was never intended
    to, provide protection against deliberate cracking and intentional misuse, so
    your mantra about how easily it will be cracked is beside the point. The difference
    between naked font data on the web and wrapped font data is the difference between
    leaving a $20 bill on the hood of your car and leaving it on the driver seat with
    the window open. To a thief, there is no distinction, it's free money; to an honest
    person the status of the bill on the hood of the car may be in doubt, whereas
    they will understand that the money inside the vehicle belongs to someone else.
    The web font format wrapper is one way of removing the ambiguity about whether
    a font is licensed for use on the web. It is not the only way, nor will it always
    and and in all cases be a sufficient way, but it is part of an aggregate solution.
    I agree with you that font metadata is another necessary part of the solution.
    There are also optional things like server-side obfuscation such as Typekit offers
    that can play a role.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-28 23:22:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Thanks for the update, John. This is sounding more hopeful. '
  created: '2009-07-29 00:57:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Joe, who cares what browsers web developers use. What matters is what web
    browsers the customers of their customers use. Which in practice is any and all
    browsers.\r\n\r\nDesign isn't a masturbatory exercise for designers, it is a part
    of making things for people.\r\n\r\nHow many people do you think read the Guardian
    website in Internet Explorer? I mention the Guardian because they have done an
    impressive job in recent years of using custom typefaces to create an immediately
    identifiable brand across multiple media. They strike me as exactly the sort of
    client that will want to use their custom typefaces for their web presence also,
    and what matters is not what browsers their web designers use but what browsers
    their readers use.\r\n\r\nAm I stating the really obvious yet?"
  created: '2009-07-29 01:13:46'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John> The difference between naked font data on the web and wrapped font
    data is the difference between leaving a $20 bill on the hood of your car and
    leaving it on the driver seat with the window open\r\n\r\nBla bla bla from a mere
    30 days past. \r\n\r\nWhat is now being offered in EOTL by MS, is that no \"Embedding\"
    permissions will be checked by IE, that all EOTL fonts that have been converted
    will be served regardless, that text somewhere will tell \"the user\" not to pay
    attention to embedding rights when seeking to serve a font, and the OT format
    will be revised to state what \"Embedding\" is and is not. This is the new \"rallying
    point\" for all other browsers to interface to EOTL as the web font standard.\r\n\r\nCould
    you, john, please define for us the life cycle of an \"interim web font format\"?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-08-23 19:08:36'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>What is now being offered in EOTL by MS, is that no \u201CEmbedding\u201D
    permissions will be checked by IE, that all EOTL fonts that have been converted
    will be served regardless, that text somewhere will tell \u201Cthe user\u201D
    not to pay attention to embedding rights when seeking to serve a font, and the
    OT format will be revised to state what \u201CEmbedding\u201D is and is not. This
    is the new \u201Crallying point\u201D for all other browsers to interface to EOTL
    as the web font standard.</em>\r\n\r\nNo, David, this is not what is \u2018being
    offered in EOTL by MS\u2019. This is what <em>I</em> proposed to you, in the other
    thread, as a way of ensuring that EOTL doesn't carry ambiguous baggage around
    the OS/2 embedding bits, because you had identified this as a problem in EOT.
    I agreed that it was a problem, and that it is something that should be clarified
    in both OT and also EOTL because the latter, whether we like it or not, has a
    strong chance of being implemented by the major browsers on account of its backwards
    compatibility with IE6, 7 & 8. I also pointed out that the ambiguity re. the embedding
    bits -- do they indicate permission for web linking or only for document embedding?
    what does \u2018document embedding\u2019 mean given that MS used that term explicitly
    to refer to web linking in the EOT spec? --  is not in any way limited to EOTL,
    but is a general problem for any OT web implementation. Finally, it is an ambiguity
    that potentially gets in the way of your EPAR table by presenting duplicate and
    possibly contradictory permissions elsewhere in the font. So I was trying to find
    a way to help you by clarifying the status of embedding bits re. web linking so
    that they don't get in your way.\r\n\r\nAnd now this proposal from me, for which
    I repeatedly asked your opinion in the other thread, has become in your mind \u2018what
    is offered by MS in EOTL\u2019? Must be strong stuff.\r\n\r\n<em>Could you, john,
    please define for us the life cycle of an \u201Cinterim web font format\u201D?</em>\r\n\r\nI'm
    sure there's some number of people out there with working Beta video players and
    recorders, so \u2018life cycle\u2019 doesn't seem a useful metaphor when talking
    about any technology: things don't die until a long time after they cease to be
    supported. The attractiveness of EOTL for web developers -- its <em>only</em>
    attractiveness as far as I can tell -- is that it is backwards compatible with
    more than 60% of all browsers currently in use. So the short end of \u2018interim\u2019
    is IE9 with support for some other web font format, which is estimated at being
    between 18 months to two years. But of course not all users upgrade, so the long
    end of \u2018interim\u2019 is the slow decline in use of the older browsers and
    the gradually diminishing giving-a-fu\u0441k our clients have in serving content
    to those legacy browser users."
  created: '2009-08-24 18:28:07'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">...I repeatedly asked your opinion in the other thread, has become in your
    mind \u2018what is offered by MS in EOTL\u2019? Must be strong stuff.\r\n\r\nSo
    what I'm hearing you say is that you don't represent MS, and they they don't either.
    \r\n\r\n>But of course not all users upgrade, so the long end of \u2018interim\u2019
    is the slow decline in use of the older browsers and the gradually diminishing
    giving-a-fu\u0441k our clients have in serving content to those legacy browser
    users.\r\n\r\n:-o oh my virgin ears. So, what I'm hearing you say is that OpenType,
    as an interim format, is not going anywhere?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-08-26 12:10:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>So what I\u2019m hearing you say is that you don\u2019t represent MS...</em>\r\n\r\nCorrect.\r\n\r\n<em>...and
    they don\u2019t either.</em>\r\n\r\nSo far as I can tell, MS have a designated
    point person re. web fonts, and that's Sylvain Galineau, who is active on the
    W3C discussion list.\r\n\r\n<em>So, what I\u2019m hearing you say is that OpenType,
    as an interim format, is not going anywhere?</em>\r\n\r\nAnd I'm left, again,
    searching for the connection between what I say and what you hear.\r\n\r\nWhat
    do you mean by \u2018OpenType\u2019 in this context? The font data in all the
    web linking font mechanisms under discussion is OpenType. What's under discussion
    is how to package that data for dynamic loading by web browsers. The majority
    of web browsers now in use can dynamically load a file format that is compatible
    with their handling of EOT, hence the viability of what is currently labelled
    EOTL as an interim web font format with interoperability potential (the non-IE
    browser makers don't like it, but they're also testing code for it). In contrast,
    serving straight OTF/TTF fonts works in a minority of browsers in use, and has
    little or no interoperability potential (MS won't touch it).\r\n\r\nI suggested
    on the W3C list that EOTL be re-named 'Compatibility Web Type' with the file extension
    .cwt, to distinguish it from EOT and also to make clear that it exists in order
    to serve a compatibility function with existing IE browsers. Ascender have indicated
    that they like the name, and no one has objected to it, so perhaps that will be
    it."
  created: '2009-08-27 01:12:54'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I think the CWT appellation works well for the intended purpose.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-08-27 08:13:06'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John>And I\u2019m left, again, searching for the connection between what
    I say and what you hear.\r\n\r\nLike I said before, OT is not going away as a
    web format.  John, can you point us to web sites using some of your EOT fonts?\r\n\r\nJohn>The
    font data in all the web linking font mechanisms under discussion is OpenType.
    \r\n\r\nCan you show me an EOT that contains an OT font?\r\n\r\n>What do you mean
    by \u2018OpenType\u2019 in this context? \r\n\r\nWe need to redefine OpenType?\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    we should compromise; I will start from the very beginning, and redefine \"Thomas\"
    and come forward, and you start with a whole new definition of \"OpenType\" (and
    move backwards, needless to say), and we'll meet somewhere around \"coffee.\"\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-08-27 11:43:56'
- author:
    name: billdavis
    picture: 109965
  body: "> We need to redefine OpenType?\r\n\r\nDavid, I don't think so. Rather we
    just need to clarify what you mean when you use the terms \"OT\" and \"OpenType\".\r\n\r\nLike
    others, I get easily confused. \r\n\r\nOpenType is defined as a font format that
    can contain either TrueType outlines (.ttf fonts) or PostScript/CFF outlines (.otf
    fonts). [[http://www.microsoft.com/typography/otspec/otover.htm]]\r\n\r\nSo I
    find it best to refer to .ttf fonts or .otf fonts rather than the more generic
    \"OpenType\".\r\n\r\nBill"
  created: '2009-08-27 15:06:48'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "> Rather we just need to clarify what you mean when you use the terms \u201COT\u201D
    and \u201COpenType\u201D.\r\n\r\nBill, OT is OT, TT is TT. There are two separate
    specs. I can point you to the two links if you are still confused. \r\n\r\nWhat
    you need to tell people whilst going about your heckling, is that the only interoperable
    format acceptable today in all IE is EOT wrapped 'round TT 1.0. Or, show me an
    OT font wrapped in a EOT that's got an OT font in it and works everywhere. \r\n\r\nThomas,
    John, where are your EOTs? Come on boys, over the top!\r\n\r\nCheers! \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-27 19:51:24'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: David, Bill has a point. It's ambiguous to refer to "OT" when speaking about
    outline formats. Yes, "OT is OT", but "OT" does not mean CFF.
  created: '2009-08-28 00:40:14'
- author:
    name: outrasfontes
    picture: 112120
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nAfter hearing all your reasonable arguments here, I just can't
    understand why you give Franklin away nude in the world *wild* web. http://www.zeldman.com/dwws/\r\n\r\nCould
    you explain us how do you plan to control its use now?\r\n\r\nCheers."
  created: '2009-08-28 00:53:32'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@john hudson, bill davis, and all:\r\n\r\n\"<em>I suggested on the W3C list
    that EOTL be re-named \u2019Compatibility Web Type\u2019 with the file extension
    .cwt, to distinguish it from EOT and also to make clear that it exists in order
    to serve a compatibility function with existing IE browsers. Ascender have indicated
    that they like the name, and no one has objected to it, so perhaps that will be
    it.</em>\"\r\n\r\nCWT for \u201CCompatible Web Type\u201D sounds too flattering.
    And with no indication that it's been, in W3C parlance, \"deprecated\" right out
    of the starting gate.\r\n\r\nHow about <b>LWT</b> for \u201C<strong>Legacy</strong>
    Web Type\u201D. \r\nVariations:\r\n<strong>LFF</strong> -  Legacy Font  File/Format/Face\r\n<strong>LTT</strong>
    - Legacy TrueType\r\n<strong>LWF</strong> \u2013 Legacy Web Font\r\n<strong>LET</strong>
    \u2013 Legacy Embedded Type\r\n\r\nI like the word \u201C<strong>legacy</strong>\u201D
    \u2013 it brands EOT as what it is: a hold-over from a previous era and slated,
    ultimately, for obsolescence. It helps indicate that preference should be given,
    going forward, to .webOTF or WOFF or whatever it's going to be named.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nRich\r\n\r\n(Maybe
    we should run this by a focus group scientifically. Where's kevlar?)"
  created: '2009-08-28 05:59:11'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">David, Bill has a point. \r\n\r\nDefine that point.\r\n \r\nWhere are your
    EOTs?\r\n\r\n>Could you explain us how do you plan to control its use now?\r\n\r\nDefine
    control, nude, and who you claim to represent. \r\n\r\nCome on fellows. Or are
    you not?\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-28 11:02:49'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>Define that point.</cite>\r\n\r\nI did."
  created: '2009-08-28 20:12:35'
- author:
    name: outrasfontes
    picture: 112120
  body: "<cite> Define control, nude, and who you claim to represent. </cite>\r\n\r\nControl
    = To know where the fonts are being used over the web and if all of the websites
    have a proper licence for doing that.\r\n\r\nNude = OTF/TTF fonts that can be
    technically used on the web, but also can be technically installed and used in
    desktop publishing.\r\n\r\nWho you claim to represent = I represent myself, as
    an independent type designer running a small one-man-foundry called Outras Fontes
    (click in my login name for more info).\r\n\r\nPlease do not take my questions
    in a personal or accusatory way. Everyone have different ideas of what can be
    the best model to offer fonts for web usage, and I'd like you hear yours, as a
    respected type designer running one of the most respected foundries in the world.\r\n\r\nIs
    it clear now?\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-28 22:24:52'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Rich: <em>CWT for \u201CCompatible Web Type\u201D sounds too flattering....</em>\r\n\r\nhttp://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-font/2009JulSep/1333.html"
  created: '2009-08-28 23:19:04'
- author:
    name: outrasfontes
    picture: 112120
  body: "<cite> CWT for \u201CCompatible Web Type\u201D sounds too flattering. And
    with no indication that it\u2019s been, in W3C parlance, \u201Cdeprecated\u201D
    right out of the starting gate.\r\nHow about LWT for \u201CLegacy Web Type\u201D.</cite>\r\n\r\nGood
    point, Rich. \"Comaptible Web Type\" could lead to a meaning that it is already
    compatible with most browsers, that is far to be be a truth.\r\n\r\n\"Legacy\"
    suggests that it can be developed for obsolescence, not for the future that is
    better represented in .webOTF/WOFF proposal.\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-28 23:53:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>\u201CComaptible Web Type\u201D could lead to a meaning that it is already
    compatible with most browsers, that is far to be be a truth.</em>\r\n\r\nThat
    depends how you count browsers. The whole attraction of this format is that it
    is compatible with the majority of individual browsers in current use. If it were
    not, no one outside of MS would be remotely interested in it. It is a format that
    is compatible with IE6, IE7 and IE8, and hence with approx. 60% of browsers being
    used to view web content by users. That browser market share is declining (it
    used to be approx. 80%), but still constitutes \u2018most browsers\u2019 in the
    only sense that phrase is significant."
  created: '2009-08-29 05:47:22'
- author:
    name: outrasfontes
    picture: 112120
  body: "> That depends how you count browsers.\r\n\r\nI know. Microsoft has a significant
    market that we just can't ignore if we wanna work serously on that for a big audience.
    By most browsers I mean the different browsers in the market that also have its
    usage that is significant enough not to be ignored. I think it strongly depends
    of the target audience of a web site. The readers of Rich's readableweb.com, for
    instance, is certainly not the same as the readers of bbc.com. :-) Just to give
    an exemple, in my foundry's site it's 57% Firefox, 21% IE, 9% Safari, 8% Chrome
    and 2% Opera. "
  created: '2009-08-29 14:37:31'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@john hudson\r\n\r\nI've replied to you on the list.\r\nYou say tomaytoe,
    and I say tomahto, but let's not call the whole thing off, OK? :)\r\nPlus - and
    this is the last time I'm going to tell you this, my friend - Ascender and Microsoft
    are NOT plural nouns. It's Ascender *has* announced, not Ascender *have* announced.\r\nI
    think I'm finally going to have to buy Joe Clark's book on Canadian English to
    get a handle on all this.\r\nAnd is there a book or *anything* that will help
    me decipher Berlow?\r\n\r\nCiao,\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://readableweb.com\">Richard
    Fink</a>\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-29 17:05:53'
- author:
    name: outrasfontes
    picture: 112120
  body: "> And is there a book or *anything* that will help me decipher Berlow?\r\n\r\nMaybe
    I can suggest \"The Super-Hinter-Man: histories and nomenclatures from the deep\".
    \r\nJust kidding, ok? ;-)"
  created: '2009-08-29 18:20:30'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Rich: <em>Ascender and Microsoft are NOT plural nouns</em>\r\n\r\nYeah, I
    know that, but I tend to think of these companies in terms of the people whom
    I know who work at them, so they tend to pluralise themselves in my head."
  created: '2009-08-29 20:53:06'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">...in my foundry\u2019s site it\u2019s 57% Firefox, 21% IE, 9% Safari, 8%
    Chrome and 2% Opera.\r\n\r\nMine is even fewer IE than that and as I talk more
    about web fonts, it keeps going down, down, down. \r\n\r\nNow, for the future,
    do you want everybody to go backwards to 1995 and wait for MS, or not? It's a
    simple question. ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-08-30 13:40:37'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Microsoft has a significant market that we just can\u2019t ignore if
    we wanna work serously on that for a big audience</cite>\r\n\r\nSegregating IE
    users to a less appealing version of the internet is really not such a bad thing.
    Maybe if developers gave IE pariah treatment it deserves IE users would realize
    what how awful Microsoft\u2019s browser is and start using good software."
  created: '2009-08-30 16:08:06'
- author:
    name: outrasfontes
    picture: 112120
  body: "<cite>Now, for the future, do you want everybody to go backwards to 1995
    and wait for MS, or not? It\u2019s a simple question. ;)</cite>\r\n\r\nSimple
    questions usually involve complex answers. ;)\r\n\r\nFor the future I think we
    have to look for what is the best we have now and improve it. *But*, in this case,
    I think some things are not only in our hands, but in browsers developers'. So,
    let's leave the browser wars for browser makers for a while.\r\n\r\nConsidering
    the type treatment, let's see the best we have in browsers and its rasterizers
    now. IMO, it's Mac OS Safari and Mac OS Firefox. But that conclusion is not enough
    to reach a big audience. In this case our clients are web designers and authors
    and they (the serious ones) always considered how their pages work under different
    browsers and OSs.\r\n\r\nIE usage may be falling down in some cases (my site included),
    but it still strong enough not to be ignored also. Please, do not ask me to define
    \"enough\", but >5% would be OK (come on, <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Long_Tail\">long
    tail</a> thinking)\r\n\r\nSo I think we don't have to *wait* for Microsoft, but
    *consider* Microsoft and give its users the best they can get.\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-30 19:32:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I'm thrilled for you folk who can ignore IE because most of the Latin script
    using, design savvy, funky people who visit your own websites use Firefox. My
    clients have rather different needs.\r\n\r\nIt is worth pointing out that the
    biggest use of EOT over the past ten years has been in non-Latin and complex script
    usage, i.e. in situations where reliance on a couple of \u2018web safe\u2019 fonts
    that could be presumed to be on almost every user's system was never an option.
    It's a big world out there, and a lot of people are using IE because it supported
    EOT font solutions for their scripts. [The fact that the biggest use of EOT was
    in cultures that don't use italic and seldom use bold styled text probably also
    helps explain why the IE style linking bug has persisted so long.]"
  created: '2009-08-31 03:40:19'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@jh\r\n>so they tend to pluralise themselves in my head.\r\n\r\nGood answer.
    I like that.\r\n\r\n@all on the \"IE\" Question:\r\n\r\nI run into this kind of
    debate all the time on web dev/design forums. I can't believe what I read sometimes.
    \r\nWhen someone says it's pefectly OK to tell 25% of your visitors to take a
    hike and get a real browser, I just don't know what to say. Something about the
    concept of \"respect\", perhaps?\r\nCertainly, there is no big commercially minded
    site that would dare to ignore IE. Or insult IE6 and 7 users with a truly crappy
    looking site. You lose money, it's that simple.\r\nAre there significant inconveniences
    involved in accomodating IE6? Sure. But they're not that difficult to handle.
    Time and time alone will solve this. MSFT cannot shove upgrades down the throats
    of its corporate customers.\r\nIf tomorrow, by magic, every copy of Firefox on
    everybody's computer were to be disabled, it would cause a lot of inconvenience,
    yes.\r\nBut if tomorrow IE were to become disabled, many major financial and government
    instutions would have to shut down until the problem was fixed. That's the difference
    in the level of responsibility facing Mozilla and Microsoft.\r\nThere are those
    who feel Microsoft <b>could</b> be more agressive in forcing updates and upgrades.
    I don't buy it. If I was running MSFT (I suppose I <em>could</em> make myself
    available ;), I wouldn't handle it any differently.\r\nMight as well complain
    about the weather.\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-31 05:26:35'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "> Might as well complain about the weather.\r\n\r\nI couldn't hear you over
    the hail, howling winds and flying cows hitting the house, what did you say?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-01 14:21:11'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "N o w   it   is   quiet.\r\n\r\nJohn>I\u2019m thrilled for you folk who can
    ignore IE because most of the Latin script using, design savvy, funky people who
    visit your own websites use Firefox. \r\n\r\nSafari actually. And I'm still going
    with the simple majority rules because the IE decline you cite is not an accident,
    but rather it is a true indication, along with the growth in the number of browsers
    and OS's, of the public's will. MS has non-standardized too many important fundamental
    standards in technical and visual ways for a full service foundry to pay attention
    to their web clients.\r\n\r\nJohn>My clients have rather different needs.\r\n\r\nWhat
    are those needs John? If you are talking about your custom extra-Latin-glyph-repertoire
    narrow-style-spectrum font clients? the type designer's whose work you publish?
    the users of these products? or a particular client[s]?\r\n\r\nA thing I'm noticing,
    is that EOT fans are not broad-based founders in a design sense, a technology
    sense, and a client sense. And, that 'and' meant all those things... it should
    be this group for whom true standards are made, no?\r\n\r\nJohn>It is worth pointing
    out that the biggest use of EOT over the past ten years has been in non-Latin
    and complex script usage, i.e. in situations where reliance on a couple of \u2018web
    safe\u2019 fonts that could be presumed to be on almost every user\u2019s system
    was never an option\r\n\r\nIt is worth pointing out, that web interoperability
    is a different problem than that which EOT users have adopted it for, or the EOT
    format was invented for, or that stripped naked version which it is being proposed,
    for all browsers and all web users \u2014 exclusive of all other formats, effectively
    forever.\r\n\r\n> [The fact that the biggest use of EOT was in cultures that don\u2019t
    use italic and seldom use bold styled text probably also helps explain why the
    IE style linking bug has persisted so long.]\r\n\r\nthanks! ...and that ain't
    all. The fact that no one has paid attention to this technology means that no
    one knows what happens when it's applied universally and exclusively to a different
    problem, until they do apply it. \r\n\r\nMaybe you and many others should not
    only 'consider', but plod this 'web format's' development, deployment and employment.
    Or do you just want to keep 'steering' and never paddle oh great 'missionary'?
    \r\n\r\nIn any case, if'n ya ever steer to land, you'll meet potential converts
    on one side of the river who appear smaller and darker, and on the other side,
    the same converts appear taller and lighter. I hope you have some other relics
    that might be impressive to these natives.;)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-09-02 13:52:06'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@Richard Fink:\r\n<cite>When someone says it's pefectly OK to tell 25% of
    your visitors to take a hike and get a real browser, I just don't know what to
    say. Something about the concept of \"respect\", perhaps?</cite>\r\n\r\n@dberlow:\r\n<cite>And
    I'm still going with the simple majority rules because the IE decline you cite
    is not an accident, but rather it is a true indication, along with the growth
    in the number of browsers and OS's, of the public's will. MS has non-standardized
    too many important fundamental standards in technical and visual ways for a full
    service foundry to pay attention to their web clients.</cite>\r\n\r\nIn general,
    I have to agree with Richard Fink's position.\r\n\r\nBut not because I think that
    computer newbies who would not know they could install another browser besides
    Internet Explorer on their Windows machines deserve <em>respect</em>. That is
    a bit difficult for me to sincerely repeat.\r\n\r\nInstead, I would argue in a
    more practical fashion.\r\n\r\nLike it or not, some people are going to treat
    their computers as if they were iPads - as locked-up appliances. We may not respect
    their computer skills, but we can still respect them as human beings.\r\n\r\nBut
    even if we don't, we will still like the money they have in their pockets.\r\n\r\nSo
    if I'm an on-line retailer, and some font vendor tries to sell me fonts that won't
    display on IE, I <em>will</em> find another font vendor, because expecting people
    to use a different browser is throwing away part of my target market, and hence
    is throwing away money.\r\n\r\nIf people can't understand <em>that</em>, they're
    in the wrong business."
  created: '2012-12-30 16:30:42'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Surely the re-appearance of this old chestnut of a thread must mean something,
    but if I could only figure out what!\r\n(First of all - would the powers that
    be get rid of the bogus post that brought this thing back to the top of the queue.)\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    for some reason the first thing that came to my mind was that Chrome has surpassed
    IE in browser share - a thing that, if someone had predicted it back when this
    thread was news, I would have said \"nuts\".\r\nAND it also popped unbidden into
    my head that Chrome in Windows still doesn't use DirectWrite, it uses GDI still.\r\n\r\nA
    happy New Year to all. "
  created: '2012-12-30 19:14:42'
date: '2009-06-29 16:54:04'
node_type: forum
title: Revised Web Fonts Proposal

---
