---
author:
  name: Arno Enslin
  picture: 117576
body: "David Lemon from Adobe writes in his tutorial <strong><em><a href=\"http://typophile.com/files/hinting.pdf\">Basic
  Type 1 Hinting</a></em></strong> about the stem weights:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"Another
  font-wide behavior is the stem weights provided for the font. It\u2019s generally
  best to enter two values for vertical stems and one or two for horizontal, listing
  the values in ascending order. In a standard Latin font, the values should represent
  the optimal weight of the normal lowercase and capital stems (hence the two values).
  These values - especially the first vertical value - are used for a number of rasterization
  purposes, so it\u2019s important to make them as representative as possible. Two
  of the most obvious uses include letting ATM know when to turn off synthetic emboldening
  in a bold design, and serving as target values, to ensure consistent stem weights
  at low resolutions. In a design where the stems vary slightly in weight, fine-tuning
  these target values can make a significant difference.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nBut that
  is a try-and-error-solution. I would like to know, how I can find the optimal standard
  stem values in a more systematic way. And I have recognized, that Adobe (for example)
  does not use three or four values in all cases. Bold or black fonts, in which the
  contrast is stronger, seem to need more values. In my opinion the only thing in
  PostScript hinting, which is hard to do, is finding the optimal standard stems,
  especially because the output of the autohinting script contained in the <strong><em><a
  href=\"http://www.adobe.com/devnet/opentype/afdko/\">Adobe Font Development Kit
  for OpenType (AFDKO)</a></em></strong> is extremely good. There is another script
  (setsnap.pl) contained in the AFDKO (coded by <strong><em><a href=\"http://lundestudio.com/\">Ken
  Lunde</a></em></strong> in Perl), but the output was not helpful (even not with
  the non standard options). Unfortunately there is no tutorial, how to make the optimal
  use of the script (for the case, that it is useful and I am too stupid).\r\n\r\n<strong>So
  my request (because I bang my head against the wall):</strong>\r\nPlease teach me!
  I would like to know a systematic way, how to find the optimal standard stem weights
  and the optimal number of standard stems. These values are extremely important for
  PostScript hinting. Even if you do not define individual hints for the glyphs, the
  values of the standard stems help the rasterizer. (Just make a test: Generate a
  font file, in which the individual hints are removed only. And generate a second
  file, in which you additionally have removed the standard stem values. Compare them.
  If the standard stem values were well chosen, as in Adobe fonts for example, you
  can see, that the font, in which standard stem values exist, looks much better on
  screen.)"
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: I just the Fontlab autohinter and then use the autofill button to have it
    gather the standard stem values. Then just delete the Fontlab hints.
  created: '2009-06-30 13:23:54'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>I just the Fontlab autohinter and then use the autofill button to have
    it gather the standard stem values. Then just delete the Fontlab hints.</cite>\r\n\r\nUp
    till now I also have used FontLab for computing the standard stems, but that solution
    is semioptimal. Just open an Adobe original font in FontLab and remove (and forget)
    the original standard stems. Then try to reproduce the same quality. I would like
    to know, what exactly I have to measure and why the optimal standard stems are
    dependent from the number of pixels, in which the font is displayed. The setsnap.pl
    script indicates, that there are no optimal stems independent from the absolute
    resolution. But for example, for which size does Adobe optimize the stems and
    how do they fine tune them? Additionally it does not seem to be needed, that the
    standard stems match with any real stem width, for example: You have three real
    horizontal stem widths 10, 18 and 32 units, but your tests show, that you should
    take one only. So you could sum the three values and devide them by three. The
    result is 20. Your whole font does not contain a stem with a width of 20, but
    the rasterizer can make use of the value 20. (This naturally does not mean, that
    just 20 is the optimal value.) I assume, that FontLab computes standard stems
    only, that match with real stems. And if not, I would like to know, how FontLab
    computes the values. By the way the computed values are dependent from the hints,
    that exist in the font. Change the hints and FontLab computes different standard
    stems. All this is too arbitrary for being professional. The fact, that there
    are still so many non Adobe fonts, that are not well hinted, indicates, that there
    is a need for clarifying the problem. PostScript hinting is not magic. I keep
    my hands from TrueType hinting, but I really want to understand, how exactly PostScript
    hinting works. David Lemon\u2019s tutorial is cool and his writing style eases
    the understanding, but it is not enough. I need more info. The individual hints
    are not the problems, but the standard stems are a big one in my opinion. (I also
    have a need for clarifying the exact influence of the BlueShift and the BlueScale
    value. I got info about the meaning from the Type1 blackbook, but the info is
    too compressed and partly too cryptical.)"
  created: '2009-06-30 14:41:37'
- author:
    name: lunde
    picture: 111902
  body: "Arno,\r\n\r\nThe setsnap.pl Perl script was originally a C program that I
    wrote in the early 1990s. I ported it to Perl three or four years ago.\r\n\r\nLike
    you, I do not run this script directly, but instead have a batch file, which happens
    to be another Perl script, that invokes it with specific options.\r\n\r\nThe default
    behavior of setsnap.pl is to simply indicate the highest-frequency stem widths.
    It is expected to use the output of another AFDKO tool, specifically stemHist,
    as its input. The stemHist tool outputs two files, one for horizontal stems, and
    another for vertical ones.\r\n\r\nI have found that selecting appropriate stem
    values is a combination of art, science, and philosophy. The easiest and fastest
    approach is to simply take the highest-frequency stem values, for horizontal and
    vertical. For many purposes, this will provide adequate results. Our rendering
    experts have always claimed that having no hints is better than having poor hints.
    Selecting the highest-frequency stems could never be construed as having poor
    hints.\r\n\r\nOne point of more careful selection of stem values involves a range
    within which the stems result in the same relative rendered size. The parameters
    are resolution and point size. If you set these (the setsnap.pl tool has options
    for these, but also has defaults if they are not set, specifically 72-dpi for
    the resolution, and 9- through 24-point as the point size range), you can experiment
    with various values.\r\n\r\nIn the past, like nearly twenty years ago, we set
    the hinting parameters for our Japanese fonts by looking at only one or two rowfonts
    for each hint dictionary. For the kanji, this meant using only a small fraction
    of the glyphs to determine these values. When I originally wrote setsnap.pl in
    C, which was simply called setsnap, one purpose was to be able to use all of the
    rowfonts to calculate the stem values. (The purpose of setsnap.pl's \"-s\" option,
    which was also a feature of the original C version, is to additionally output
    a new stemHist file, and it assumes that its input is a bunch of them that have
    been concatenated from multiple rowfonts.) This resulted in much more accurate
    stem values, even if the highest-frequency one is to be selected.\r\n\r\nIf you
    select only one stem value for horizontal and vertical, these become the StdHW
    and StdVW values of the font dictionary, respectively. You can also set the StemSnapH
    and StemSnapV arrays, meaning that multiple values are specified. Whether multiple
    values need to be specified depends on the font data. My \"rule of thumb\" is
    to keep multiple StemSnapH and StemSnapV values at least 10 units apart. And,
    as you are no doubt aware, one of the StemSnapH and StemSnapV values must be the
    same as set for the StdHW and StdVW values, respectively. If the output of the
    setsnap.pl tool suggests that there are two or three high-frequency stems that
    are at least 10 units apart, it would be a good idea to specify these in the StemSnapH
    and StemSnapV arrays, being sure to include the highest-frequency one as the StdHW
    and StdVW values. (The setsnap.pl tool outputs the highest-frequency stem, so
    you need to look into the output of stemHist to find others.)\r\n\r\nAs an example,
    here is the horizontal stemHist output for the \"Kanji\" hint dictionary of RyoDispPlusN-Heavy
    (created by using the setsnap.pl \"-s\" option to concatenate multiple stemHist
    output files):\r\n\r\nCount\tWidth\r\n536\t7\r\n254\t8\r\n262\t9\r\n266\t10\r\n879\t11\r\n1623\t12\r\n1033\t13\r\n279\t14\r\n167\t15\r\n35275\t16\r\n576\t17\r\n559\t18\r\n264\t19\r\n207\t20\r\n212\t21\r\n218\t22\r\n229\t23\r\n414\t24\r\n346\t25\r\n383\t26\r\n522\t27\r\n626\t28\r\n429\t29\r\n615\t30\r\n858\t31\r\n774\t32\r\n393\t33\r\n1031\t34\r\n201\t35\r\n121\t36\r\n43\t37\r\n20\t38\r\n47\t39\r\n22\t40\r\n72\t41\r\n18\t42\r\n12\t43\r\n24\t44\r\n17\t45\r\n15\t46\r\n26\t47\r\n8\t48\r\n11\t49\r\n223\t50\r\n9\t51\r\n6\t52\r\n12\t53\r\n20\t54\r\n10\t55\r\n2\t56\r\n16\t57\r\n14\t58\r\n8\t59\r\n67\t60\r\n15\t61\r\n15\t62\r\n4\t63\r\n4\t64\r\n2\t65\r\n10\t66\r\n6\t67\r\n7\t68\r\n4\t69\r\n9\t70\r\n12\t71\r\n8\t72\r\n8\t73\r\n10\t74\r\n15\t75\r\n8\t76\r\n17\t77\r\n14\t78\r\n15\t79\r\n13\t80\r\n14\t81\r\n18\t82\r\n10\t83\r\n13\t84\r\n21\t85\r\n12\t86\r\n20\t87\r\n20\t88\r\n24\t89\r\n22\t90\r\n19\t91\r\n29\t92\r\n41\t93\r\n55\t94\r\n22\t95\r\n25\t96\r\n33\t97\r\n22\t98\r\n35\t99\r\n29\t100\r\n32\t101\r\n27\t102\r\n35\t103\r\n43\t104\r\n50\t105\r\n40\t106\r\n67\t107\r\n68\t108\r\n51\t109\r\n43\t110\r\n61\t111\r\n64\t112\r\n45\t113\r\n46\t114\r\n40\t115\r\n63\t116\r\n69\t117\r\n59\t118\r\n40\t119\r\n60\t120\r\n52\t121\r\n42\t122\r\n84\t123\r\n60\t124\r\n67\t125\r\n52\t126\r\n45\t127\r\n77\t128\r\n158\t129\r\n48\t130\r\n99\t131\r\n53\t132\r\n24\t133\r\n60\t134\r\n29\t135\r\n40\t136\r\n37\t137\r\n37\t138\r\n15\t139\r\n43\t140\r\n35\t141\r\n36\t142\r\n51\t143\r\n57\t144\r\n43\t145\r\n42\t146\r\n18\t147\r\n36\t148\r\n35\t149\r\n26\t150\r\n17\t151\r\n32\t152\r\n35\t153\r\n31\t154\r\n27\t155\r\n13\t156\r\n34\t157\r\n19\t158\r\n28\t159\r\n24\t160\r\n14\t161\r\n19\t162\r\n12\t163\r\n53\t164\r\n11\t165\r\n44\t166\r\n22\t167\r\n10\t168\r\n41\t169\r\n12\t170\r\n6\t171\r\n6\t172\r\n66\t173\r\n7\t174\r\n10\t175\r\n7\t176\r\n4\t177\r\n8\t178\r\n3\t179\r\n2\t180\r\n47\t181\r\n4\t182\r\n6\t183\r\n2\t184\r\n1\t185\r\n3\t187\r\n2\t188\r\n2\t189\r\n3\t190\r\n1\t191\r\n4\t192\r\n1\t193\r\n3\t195\r\n2\t196\r\n1\t199\r\n1\t200\r\n1\t201\r\n1\t202\r\n1\t206\r\n1\t213\r\n1\t222\r\n\r\nIt
    is little wonder that setsnap.pl indicates that \"16\" is the highest-frequency
    horizontal stem value, with 35,275 hits. (Keep in mind that the \"Kanji\" hint
    dictionary of this font includes glyphs for approximately 8,000 kanji.) In fact,
    the stem value of 16 is such a high frequency that we set only StdHW for this
    font, specifically a value of 16, and do not include a StemSnapH array. If I were
    to set a StemSnapH array, the stem value of 34 would be a likely candidate to
    include in it.\r\n\r\nHopefully this helps to some degree...\r\n\r\nDr. Ken Lunde\r\nSenior
    Computer Scientist, CJKV Type Development\r\nAdobe Systems Incorporated\r\nlunde@adobe.com"
  created: '2009-07-01 14:39:54'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: Thanks, Ken! I try again to comprehend and reproduce the standard stems of
    some Adobe fonts.
  created: '2009-07-01 16:44:14'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "You are overthinking this :)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-01 17:00:08'
- author:
    name: lunde
    picture: 111902
  body: "Arno,\r\n\r\nYour goal should not be to reproduce the standard stems of some
    of our fonts, because there are no \"correct\" values. Rather, think of this exercise
    in terms of choosing one of many possible \"correct\" or \"appropriate\" values.\r\n\r\nScience
    is used to reveal candidate stem values, either through simplistic calculations
    (highest-frequency, for example), or more complex ones (as the \"-o\" option of
    setsnap.pl uses, which takes resolution and point size ranges into account).\r\n\r\nPhilosophy
    is then used to pick from among the candidate values, and a good rule is that
    if you cannot decide between two relatively close values, choose the lower of
    the two.\r\n\r\nArt even comes into play. Experience is also another factor.\r\n\r\nI
    also agree that you should not overthink this.\r\n\r\nIf you'd like me to take
    a stab at a font, feel free to send to me the stemHist output files, and I'll
    let you know what I think are appropriate stem values.\r\n\r\nDr. Ken Lunde\r\nSenior
    Computer Scientist, CJKV Type Development\r\nAdobe Systems Incorporated\r\nlunde@adobe.com"
  created: '2009-07-01 17:15:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Bold or black fonts, in which the contrast is stronger, seem to need
    more values.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think it's the contrast. There are often more
    quite distinct (numerically far apart) stem widths in the heavier weights.\r\nThat's
    because with reference to the desirability of an overall even quality in text,
    \"colour\" (or notan) is more apparent and more instrumental in bold weights than
    the thickness of stems.\r\nFor instance, Futura:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FutET_5116.jpg]"
  created: '2009-07-01 18:09:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "H\r\nH\r\nH\r\nH\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-07-01 18:18:20'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>If you\u2019d like me to take a stab at a font, feel free to send to
    me the stemHist output files, and I\u2019ll let you know what I think are appropriate
    stem values.</cite>\r\n\r\nThanks, Ken. I would also send you a list of standard
    stems, from which I think, that they are well chosen.\r\n\r\nBut another question:
    Imagine, that you have a font with the following real stem widths. (The font does
    not have any curves.)\r\n\r\nVERTICAL STEMS: 30 and 60\r\nHORIZONTAL STEMS: 40
    and 50\r\n\r\nThen I would set the following vertical standard stems:\r\n30 and
    60\r\n\r\nBut I would think about deviding the sum of 40 and 50 for the one and
    only value of the horizontal standard stems, because the rasterizer tries to render
    in the width of the standard stems independent from the question, if their widths
    match with real stems. Would this be wrong? More to the point, there is no duty
    to choose standard stems, that really exist in the font, isn\u2019t it? If, for
    example, the regular style and the italic style of a font are very similar in
    weight, I could use the same standard stems for both styles.\r\n\r\nAnd another
    thing with regard to bold and black styles: In my opinion it sometimes is better,
    not to provide any hints for those bold and black styles, but standard stems only.
    This often looks more smooth. Or alternatively vertical and horizontal standard
    stems, but vertical hints only. (Vertical hints hint horizontal stems.) Or as
    very elegant alternate way, vertical and horizontal standard stems and vertical
    ghost hints, that are exactly on the top and under the bottom of each glyph. I
    don\u2019t know, whether that works, but I had this idea, when I saw the bar of
    a small t, which should align with the other small letters. I could not extend
    the alignment zone down to the top of the bar of the t, because there seems to
    be a maximum allowed width of alignment zones, but I have successfully aligned
    the bar of the t with the help of a ghost hint. (When I tried to extend the alignment
    zone down to the bar of the t, the alignment of all the other small letters did
    not work anymore.) And, surprise, if the ghost hint overlaps with the bar of the
    t and with the alignment zone, it will be additionally hinted.\r\n\r\nYes, it
    may be, that I overthink this, but it really is hard to get detailed information
    about hinting without asking experts. The only tutorial with regard to PostScript-hinting
    seems to be David\u2019s.\r\n\r\n----------\r\n\r\nKen, I already have posted
    a bug report on the FontLab forum about the autohinting macro of the latest AFDKO.
    (The option \"suppress hint substitution\" does not work for sure and the option
    \"allow changes in outlines\" doesn\u2019t seem to work.) But maybe it is better
    to contact the developers directly. Is there a better place, on which I can report
    bugs?"
  created: '2009-07-01 20:25:34'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<a href=\"http://forum.fontlab.com/adobe-fdk-for-opentype-afdko/bug-in-autohintscript-belonging-to-the-afdko-25-21898-t7057.0.html;msg23917#msg23917\">My
    bug report of the autohinting macro, that is contained in the AFDKO.</a>\r\nI
    have fixed the bug and attached it there.\r\n\r\nI can edit my first message only.
    Why not the last one? That\u2019s odd."
  created: '2009-07-01 21:44:29'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "Quoting myself\r\n<cite>(Vertical hints hint horizontal stems.)</cite>\r\n\r\nThis
    is a point, in which I am not sure. In Fontographer hints of horizontal stems
    are displayed as vertical arrows. In FontLab they are displayed as two dashed
    horizontal lines. And in the FontLab terminology a vertical hint hints a vertical
    stem. On the one side the FontLab terminology is more intuitive. On the other
    side it is contradictory regarding to the alignment function of hints. And it
    ignores the difference between a normal and a ghost hint. So I prefer<strong>ed</strong>
    to call a hint, that hints a vertical stem, a horizontal hint. But I am relatively
    sure, that it is defined in a specification. I only have to find it.\r\n\r\nEdited:\r\n\r\nFrom
    the Type1 blackbook:\r\n\r\n<cite>The vstem hint, for each vertical stem (such
    as the legs of the\r\nletter \u201Cn\u201D or the leftmost and rightmost sections
    of the letter \u201Co\u201D)\r\ntakes two x values (expressed as x and delta-x)
    as arguments. These\r\ntwo x values indicate the horizontal range that the vertical
    stem\u2019s\r\nwidth occupies in character space.</cite>\r\n\r\nI change my opinion
    and call vstem hints vertical hints in future. Or vstem hints."
  created: '2009-07-02 00:00:48'
- author:
    name: DavidL
  body: "Sorry the hinting documentation is so limited. The tutorial I wrote so long
    ago was focused on Fontographer, and omitted things that FOG can't do. We are
    (more accurately: Miguel is) working on an expanded version, but it's a slow project
    and likely to take quite a while longer.\r\n\r\nArno asked:\r\n<cite>But I would
    think about dividing the sum of 40 and 50 for the one and only value of the horizontal
    standard stems, because the rasterizer tries to render in the width of the standard
    stems independent from the question, if their widths match with real stems. Would
    this be wrong? More to the point, there is no duty to choose standard stems, that
    really exist in the font, isn\u2019t it?</cite>\r\n\r\nThere's no requirement
    that the standard stem weights match actual stems. Often the best result is more
    of an average of several closely-related values. But it does need to really represent
    the weight of the design.\r\n\r\n<cite>If, for example, the regular style and
    the italic style of a font are very similar in weight, I could use the same standard
    stems for both styles.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis would be a bad idea. The rasterizer
    tries to make a visible difference between the regular and bold weights at small
    sizes (where both may have one-pixel stems), and uses the stem weight values to
    figure out what weights it's dealing with. If you lie to the rasterizer you're
    not likely to get good results."
  created: '2009-07-11 03:35:48'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ David or Miguel\r\n\r\nIs the expanded version already available? I even
    would be interested in it, if it is in a beta stadium."
  created: '2010-03-09 19:42:38'
date: '2009-06-30 11:08:51'
node_type: forum
title: PostScript hinting -- number and weight of standard stems

---
