---
author:
  name: joeclark
  picture: 110605
body: "Greg Hitchcock wrote <a href=\"http://blogs.msdn.com/e7/archive/2009/06/23/engineering-changes-to-cleartype-in-windows-7.aspx\"
  title=\"Engineering Changes to ClearType in Windows 7\">a rather lengthy piece</a>
  (so difficult to read onscreen, especially with such lousy CSS) on ClearType in
  Windows 7. It told me a few new things, like the fact that print-preview screens
  would tend to use a different method of antialiasing. You\u2019ll be able to turn
  more things off in Windows 7.\r\n\r\nThis is not the thing that interests me. What
  interests me is the reported results of \u201Can informal and small-scale\u201D
  survey at a community centre outside the Microsoft compound. Most people preferred
  ClearType to an identical screen with no antialiasing (\u201Cbi-level\u201D in the
  confusing Microsoft jargon).\r\n\r\nNow, isn\u2019t this like handing people two
  hardcover books, one typeset in Times (\u201CNew Roman\u201D) and the other in Cooper
  Black, and asking them which one they prefer? I recall another experiment that made
  similar clearly nonsensical comparisons. Isn\u2019t a more honest comparison between
  ClearType and what Microsoft calls \u201Cfont smoothing/greyscale\u201D?\r\n\r\nAdditionally,
  the piece admits that a substantial minority of people want ClearType turned off
  at all times. You can do that more easily in Win7. But Microsoft here blows another
  chance to pursue the likely link between colour deficiency (\u201Ccolour blindness\u201D)
  and hating ClearType. MS knows all about it, but they haven\u2019t studied it yet.
  (Have they? They\u2019ve got two paragraphs quite close together in the blog post
  that mention ClearType hatred and colour blindness, but 2 plus 2 continues not to
  equal 4 over in Redmond.)\r\n\r\nAs for why I think colour deficiency and anti-ClearType
  sentiment go hand in hand: MS has told me that it tends to be oldschool computer
  programmers who hate ClearType. They\u2019ve got a lot of those in-house at Microsoft.
  Red-green colour deficiency chiefly affects males. Most programmers are male. So
  there are multiple selection biases at work that seem to suggest Microsoft has a
  large contingent of colourblind computer-programmer dudes on staff who cannot stand
  ClearType. There are probably good reasons for that; I suspect they are seeing much
  more antialiasing because red and green pixels have similar replacement colours.
  \u201CMuch more antialiasing\u201D is another way of saying \u201Ctoo-blurry text.\u201D"
comments:
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I'll have to think about this one. I have red-green colour deficiency (deuteranomaly,
    the most common form), and it has never occurred to me that colour perception
    could be a factor in how various forms of type antialiasing.\r\n\r\nEven now,
    I cannot see why colour deficiency would be a drawback for appreciating ClearType.
    Isn't the principle of subpixel rendering supposed to enhance the virtual resolution,
    while colour fringes are the unwelcome side effects? What does it matter that
    I would not be able to distinguish between the red and green fringes very well?
    Wouldn't it conceivably even have the opposite affect of lessening the 'noise'
    of the colour fringes, thereby enhancing the effectiveness of ClearType?\r\n\r\nI
    admit that I don't have a good understanding of ClearType, so I might be missing
    something obvious..."
  created: '2009-06-30 20:24:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I don't have color-blindness. And I haven't seen ClearType on Windows, but
    my impression of the screen-grabs in the article Joe references is that the ClearType
    effect distorts letter forms in an uneven manner. This is especially noticeable
    if one views one's screen just close enough to bring the pixel grid of pure white
    into focus.\r\nMight not the anti-ClearType sentiment discussed be a similar aesthetic
    judgement?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/clear1_4918.png]\r\nAbove,
    Verdana, set in InDesign on an iMac.\r\nBelow, screen grab of ClearType.\r\nNote
    how ClearType adds a little hook-like \"serif\" to \"e\", and creates excessive
    white space between \"e\" and \"a\", sacrificing smooth spacing for sharpness.\r\nAlso,
    there appears to be a little bright \"notch\" at the outside top left corner of
    \"C\".\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Calibri_3501.png]\r\nScreen
    grab of ClearType.\r\nNote how the vertical stem widths vary drastically, an unsettling
    effect, to which less sharpness but more evenness of stroke width would be preferable.Is
    this really the way it's supposed to look?\r\nIt is an axiom of ClearType that
    precise spacing of differently rendered vertical stems (by sub-pixel positioning)
    is better than irregular spacing of similarly rendered stems--but what if this
    premise is wrong? \r\n\r\nAs some letter forms are inherently sharper in pixels
    than others, so the ideal should be to design letters and rendering technology
    with that in mind.\r\nIn comparison, arguably the most readable of text faces
    in print, Bembo, has letters designed with varying degrees of sharpness. When
    reading, there is no mistaking the sharp triangularity of the serifs at the top
    of its ascenders, but at the same time, the exact form of the terminal at the
    top left of \"a\" is impossible to determine unless closely examined. It seems
    to me that the terminal of the Bembo \"a\" is designed to be deliberately vague
    and unsharp, the better to combine with such different preceding shapes as the
    ear of \"r\" or the serif of \"y\".\r\n\r\nSo, the way that sharpness varies in
    screen display should reinforce typographic logic, not be arbitrary as is the
    case with that notch at the corner of \"C\".\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-30 23:51:24'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Hey Joe, There was a section in the original draft of that post covering
    new research on people who dislike ClearType, but it (and other sections) got
    cut to make the post a little shorter. Greg does point to other blog posts that
    talk about more rigorous, academic studies.\r\n\r\nThe section that got cut talks
    about research that suggests that people who dislike ClearType are more likely
    to both have <em>greater than average color sensitivity</em> and poorer than average
    visual acuity. I suspect that ClearType should be a very good experience for colorblind
    users, though a rigorous study has not been conducted on that topic. ClearType
    leverages the fact that we are most visually sensitive in the luminance channel,
    less visually sensitive in the red-green channel, and least sensitive in the yellow-blue
    channel. ClearType tries to minimize the error in the luminance channel, while
    accepting more in the other two. With the two most common forms of colorblindness,
    it\u2019s not possible to detect error in the red-green channel. It is these kinds
    of color artifacts that people with good color sensitivity can report that colorblind
    users will have a harder time detecting.\r\n\r\nIn the <em>future research</em>
    section, Greg specifically calls out that we have plans of improving the ClearType
    rendering for different visual system characteristics including colorblindness.
    Knowing that a reader is red cone deficient or green cone deficient, we can improve
    the luminance contrast of the text with undetectable color error.\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-01 01:39:17'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "I understand what my esteemed colleague is saying.\r\n\r\nBut.\r\n\r\nIf
    we\u2019re talking about preferences and not performance (the sections I was objecting
    to dealt with preferences), a red subpixel and a green subpixel are going to look
    beige (let\u2019s say, and probably two shades of beige) to someone with protanopia
    or deuteranopia (strong or weak).\r\n\r\nThe effect is to have two beige subpixels,
    not a red and a green one. It is my hypothesis that this makes characters look
    too blurry for this group precisely because the perceptual advantage of one kind
    of subpixel plus another kind is overwhelmed by a mass of undifferentiable subpixels.
    I believe this remains exactly the opposite hypothesis from the one you have.\r\n\r\nElderly
    people with tritanopia (the rare yellow\u2013blue or yellow\u2013green colour
    deficiency) would exhibit this phenomenon the least according to both our hypotheses,
    assuming yellow\u2013blue had the lowest error.\r\n\r\nNow, the interesting thing
    would be to test real-world performance, because, as we know, people sometimes
    complain about type they turn out to read quite well.\r\n\r\nAs I have explained
    to my various esteemed colleagues down in Redmond, hire Joel Pokorny to investigate
    this and you will arrive at definitive answers.\r\n\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-07-01 18:02:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>It is my hypothesis that this makes characters look too blurry</em>\r\n\r\nThat
    may be true, but how much blurryness is too much?\r\nIt's my hypothesis (for several
    reasons) that sharpness is overrated.\r\nSo I would agree with your advice to,
    \"...test real-world performance, because, as we know, people sometimes complain
    about type they turn out to read quite well.\"\r\nSurely, the best way to do that
    would be to pit ClearType against Quartz?\r\nBut I doubt Kevin is in a position
    to undertake such research--what if Quartz turned out to trounce ClearType?\r\n\r\nActually,
    I don't think that's likely, because of the \"other things being equal\" factor.\r\nAfter
    reading <a href=\"http://www.macobserver.com/columns/devilsadvocate/2003/20030523.shtml\">this</a>
    comparison, I came to the conclusion that like much in typography, results are
    probably document (and device) specific.\r\nThat is to say, it may be possible
    to determine that ClearType outperforms Quartz in rendering Verdana at a particular
    size, but for a different typeface at a different size, the result could be reversed."
  created: '2009-07-01 18:39:23'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Joe, you\u2019re worrying about mapping a color blind reader\u2019s perception
    of color onto a non-colorblind reader\u2019s perception of color. I don\u2019t
    think a red subpixel and green subpixel are going to look beige or two shades
    of beige.\r\n\r\nMost colorblind people are lacking either the M-cones (green)
    or the L-cones (red), and instead have twice the number of the other. These two
    cones are actually very similar to one another - their response pattern is nearly
    identical, only slightly offset from one another. Both cone types will respond
    to any light between 450nm and 650nm. Light from roughly 450nm-550nm will have
    a slightly higher response from the M-cones, and light from 550-650nm will have
    a slightly higher response from the L cones. If you\u2019re missing one cone type
    you can still see light across the entire green-yellow-red range, it\u2019s just
    harder to tell them apart. In the visual channels (a stage after the cone responses)
    light from both the red and green subpixels will be seen as brightness (white)
    in the luminance visual channel and yellow in the yellow/blue channel, but there
    is no red/green channel. This means that the detection of the contrast between
    the white of the background and the black of the text is fine, and there is less
    sensitivity to the color artifacts. \r\n\r\nIt\u2019s almost a philosophical question
    about what color a red and green subpixel will appear, but it will be brighter
    than beige.\r\n\r\nI am unfamiliar with Joel Pokorny, but other experts in color
    vision and in optometry agree with my statements above. And informally, I haven\u2019t
    heard of any colorblind people complaining about ClearType. The most vehement
    ClearType haters I\u2019ve met do not have color blindness, and usually have very
    good color sensitivity.\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-01 22:57:22'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Nick, there are several apparent knockoffs of ClearType including Apple\u2019s
    Quartz and Adobe\u2019s CoolType. There is so much research comparing ClearType
    rendering to black & white rendering because it was a big deal to change the default
    rendering for millions of Windows users. Everyone wanted to make the right choice.
    No one is choosing between ClearType and other sub-pixel rendering algorithms,
    so there is little interest in investigating this."
  created: '2009-07-01 22:58:06'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I realize it's a common misunderstanding, but most people with red-green
    colour blindness don't see red and green as the same colour.\r\n\r\nIt may be
    impossible to make people with normal colour vision fully understand what I see,
    but I see red as red and green as green. It's just that they are harder to distinguish.
    The difference between red and green is just not as marked as that between the
    difference I perceive between blue and yellow.\r\n\r\nImagine you are in a very
    dark room. You can still tell apart the colours of objects, but plainly not as
    well as during the day. For me, that's what telling apart red and green is like.\r\n\r\nFor
    small specks of colour, it becomes really difficult to tell apart reddish shades
    and greenish shades. So on the subpixel level, I see how I would be less bothered
    by the extraneous colour information than people who are more sensitive to colour
    differences, although I can't imagine the difference would be huge.\r\n\r\nIt
    may be interesting to see how the amount of colour fringing in type rendering
    affects user preference. This would of course compare different antialiasing methods
    with each other. As I understand it, there are trade-offs between colour fringing
    and resolution, so one may have to devise ways to control for these factors."
  created: '2009-07-01 23:51:37'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">No one is choosing between ClearType and other sub-pixel rendering algorithms,
    so there is little interest in investigating this.\r\n\r\nAll but one of our clients
    choosing between CT and Standard (sub-pixel rendering algorithms both!), chose
    Standard. I suggest there is little interest in investigating this for entirely
    other reasons than you suggest and have proved that since we started this discussion
    in 2004. \r\n\r\nThe 'minority' of CT haters, (now 17%) has risen from 4% Kevlar
    marginalized it to in 2004. My experience has found the number to be double what
    MS says now, or around 35%. Of our users switching from bitmaps, 5% to 10% cannot
    even look at CT text without becoming physically upset. They say \"Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh,
    Thank You!\" when they switch to Standard rendering. :)\r\n\r\n>I suspect that
    ClearType should be a very good experience for colorblind users\r\n\r\nSince CT
    scaling and rendering was actually designed by a colorblind developer, I would
    tend to think it is <em>only</em> good for color blind users.\r\n\r\n>So, the
    way that sharpness varies in screen display should reinforce typographic logic...\r\n\r\nRight
    Nick, but with the TT instructions being mostly ignored by CT in the critical
    x dimension, the typographic logic TT instructions contain is being ignored as
    well. And that is what's at the heart of all user's complaints, whether they know
    it, or not. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-02 12:18:28'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Hold on, Kevlar. Many colourblind males don\u2019t know they have the condition,
    particularly for deuteranomaly. Some anonymous deutans can pass the Ishihara test.\r\n\r\nThe
    near-philosophical question at work here is the one applicable to everyone who
    can see: What <em>do</em> they see? You don\u2019t know and I don\u2019t know.
    In addition, beige can be bright or dull, but at a certain point just becomes
    yellow.\r\n\r\n\u201CI\u2019ve never heard of Pokorny, but my friends say I\u2019m
    right\u201D\_is no substitute for an actual test, would you not agree? \r\n\r\nWe
    seem to have regressed from two competing untested hypotheses to a near-dismissal
    of the entire issue. The original article suggested MS was willing to work on
    the problem of smoothed fonts for colour-deficient people. I wouldn\u2019t back
    away from that.\r\n\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-07-02 19:47:05'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Jongseong, people with colour deficiency have an area of confusable colours
    on the standard CIE colourspace. Within this confusion zone, colour-deficient
    people (especially the rare ones with one good and one colourblind eye) report
    seeing some colour other than the ones colour-normal people see. These are the
    so-called substitute colours.\r\n\r\nHence, yes, it is of course true that protans
    and deutans can still see red and can still see green. It\u2019s just that there
    are many shades of red, green, beige, dull yellow, etc. that may be difficult
    to distinguish, either in an artificial naming exercise (\u201CWhat colour is
    this?\u201D) or just in day-to-day life (your red tie is a bit much with your
    black shirt).\r\n\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-07-02 19:52:26'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Hi David, I don\u2019t really know what you are saying, so I\u2019ll guess.\r\n\r\nI
    think you\u2019re saying that people prefer font smoothing / grayscale setting,
    which I believe had the level of \u201Cstandard\u201D in Windows XP font smoothing
    dialog. Greg\u2019s article explained that with Windows font smoothing, all of
    the core Windows fonts would display bi-level / black & white rendering at reading
    text sizes, and grayscale at smaller and larger sizes. All of the discussed studies
    compare rendering of reading text sizes, so there is no difference between bi-level
    and standard font smoothing.\r\n\r\nNeither bi-level nor Windows grayscale are
    sub-pixel rendering algorithms.\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-02 20:03:41'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "> The original article suggested MS was willing to work on the problem of
    smoothed fonts for colour-deficient people\r\n\r\nJoe, I am heavily involved in
    a project where we are trying to develop rendering that is personalized for each
    person\u2019s sight. Doing this involves modeling how vision works and optimizing
    for different capabilities. Once we can make text that we think is optimized for
    colorblind readers, I will certainly be testing this with colorblind readers.
    Above I\u2019m arguing that 1) the people that strongly dislike ClearType are
    rarely if ever colorblind, and 2) the way to optimize rendering for colorblind
    readers is to allow more error in the red/green visual channel in order to reduce
    the error in the more important luminance channel.\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-02 20:55:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "@Kevin: <em>Nick, there are several apparent knockoffs of ClearType including
    Apple\u2019s Quartz and Adobe\u2019s CoolType.</em>\r\n\r\nI wasn't aware they
    were ClearType knockoffs.\r\nBe that as it may, in the example shown above and
    again below, I compared type rendered in InDesign on an iMac, blurry and greyscale,
    with sharp and multicolor Cleartype.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Clear3_6634.png]\r\n\r\nYou
    say that \"there is little interest in investigating this\", but from a scientific
    point of view, if one wanted to assess the merit of ClearType, why ever would
    one not test its performance against so obvious a candidate?"
  created: '2009-07-02 22:19:20'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Just a simple question here, but doesn't the the degree to which a sub pixel
    is off or on just amount to an amount of light, regardless of the colour? The
    colours of sub pixels aren't readily visible to the unaided eye in any case.\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2009-07-02 22:29:56'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "That's correct. The general idea is that *correct* grey scales can only be
    displayed using three pixel parts (forming one \"whole\" pixel), but if it's known
    in advance in which order the physical RGB sub-pixels are ordered, one can use
    that to smooth the outline. The color fringes occur because adding more sub-pixels
    to the left and right (i.e., those of \"the other 2 colors\") would widen the
    subpixel, as Nicks image shows.\r\n\r\nThe very best explanation, with loads of
    examples, is on [[http://www.grc.com/ctwhat.htm]]."
  created: '2009-07-02 22:43:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The pixel blow-up is not an accurate representation of the screen, I should
    really take a photo through a loupe.\r\n\r\nHowever, to explain a bit, the phantom
    serif on the \"e\" in ClearType is a result of the Green and Blue sub-pixels at
    that point being \"turned off\", and the Red sub-pixel on either side being quite
    bright. So, high contrast between sub-pixels, therefore sharp image. In the greyscale
    \"e\", the relevant RGB sub-pixels are fairly evenly semi-illuminated, across
    two pixels, causing a smoother and softer effect.\r\n\r\nBut I could be talking
    nonsense here, as I haven't actually looked at ClearType on a PC, so I'll refrain
    from further comment until I do! "
  created: '2009-07-02 23:09:20'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "Yeah, subpixel art!\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/typo-icon1_3493.png]\r\nNotice
    how you see a white dot inside the small circle, but it really isn\u2019t there.
    Just blue and red\u2026\r\n\r\n(btw, it maybe helps that I have a little higher
    screen PPI)"
  created: '2009-07-02 23:44:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: for the sake of clarity, note that the 'in InDesign on an iMac' rendering
    you show in your screenshot is not Apple Quartz; it is Adobe's InDesign rendering,
    which differs not only from the Apple system rendering but also from Adobe's Photoshop
    rendering and Adobe's Acrobat rendering (the latter employs CoolType, which is
    Adobe's subpixel rendering for LCD screens).\r\n\r\nThe variety of rendering engines
    and models in use today is large. And now we're beginning to see greater diversity
    of screen display models too, after a long period of relative stability around
    the RGB LCD devices for the past ten-to-fifteen years. I spent some of yesterday
    looking at a bewildering variety of display models, sizes and resolutions, and
    the design of these devices is being driven by a variety of factors, such as power
    consumption and battery life -- i.e. it is not all about attaining higher physical
    resolution --: diagonal pixels; chevron-shaped pixels; RGBW (white) pixels; organic
    fluorescent systems; 'eInk' systems; and more.\r\n\r\nThe resolution of small
    device screens -- notably telephones -- is going up considerably. The resolution
    of computer monitors is not (and having looked into the attrition rates in high-res
    display manufacture, I'm not as down on the monitor makers as I used to be). Subpixel
    rendering is primarily a technology for increasing apparent resolution (at least
    in one direction), and as such I see it mainly as a technology for what we might
    consider medium-resolution screen. It produces too much fuzz at lower resolutions
    (say, less than 110ppi) and it becomes steadily less necessary as resolutions
    increase upwards. There is a resolution at which I think good greyscale antialiasing
    becomes the best option, a resolution at which you don't need to use subpixel
    rendering any more because the full pixel is sufficient to render both shapes
    and positioning well. I'm not sure where that resolution is. 200ppi? 300ppi? It
    is going to depend on the reader, just as the resolution at which subpixel rendering
    becomes preferable to b/w rendering varies according to differing colour sensitivity
    and visual acuity ... and distance from the screen.\r\n\r\nThat last factor --
    distance from the screen -- is hugely important. To save my back and shoulder
    I switched to a 30\" monitor a few months ago. The size allows me to sit further
    back, even when doing detailed work on font outlines. And of course sitting further
    from the screen increases the perceived resolution. So even though my 30\" monitor
    has a considerably lower physical resolution than my old 17\" 145ppi laptop screen,
    my eyes are on average about 10 inches further away than they used to be, so the
    perceived resolution is increased.\r\n\r\nI like ClearType, but then I've been
    using either medium-resolution screens or achieving medium perceived resolution
    through distance for some time. That is, I'm operating in the range of resolutions
    in which increasing apparent resolution in the x-direction through use of subpixels
    has benefit. I have high visual acuity but only medium colour sensitivity (yes,
    I went and got tested because I wanted to understand my response to ClearType);
    that's a good combination for ClearType, because I'm not bothered by the colour
    artefacts. Periodically, I turn off ClearType in order to remind myself that I
    prefer it: at the resolutions and distance-from-screen at which I work, the b/w
    rendering of text is spindly and the letter shapes are crude (which is what I
    get for having high visual acuity).\r\n\r\nNow, this is all highly personal. And
    that's the point. I should be able to tailor my reading experience to what works
    best for me, with the full expectation that it might not be what works best for
    you, either in terms of the hardware in front of you or the hardware in your head.\r\n___\r\n\r\nThe
    only other thing I'll mention, vis a vis ClearType, is that it isn't a static
    technology so when making comparisons it can be important to identify the particular
    version or implementation of ClearType you are looking at or talking about. Shipped
    versions, that I know of, are the original MS Reader implementation, Windows XP,
    Windows Vista, and WPF/DWrite. I'm not sure how the Windows 7 implementation might
    differ from the Vista version.\r\n\r\nThe most interesting, I think, is the WPF/DWrite
    version, which employs ClearType subpixel rendering and colour filtering in the
    x-direction and (5-level?) greyscale antialiasing in the y-direction.\r\n\r\nHere's
    an image to add to your comparison of Verdana renderings.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/verctwpf_4638.gif]\r\n\r\nAt
    this size, you're not seeing the y-direction greyscale that you would at larger
    sizes, but you are seeing the significant difference between these two versions
    of ClearType. Interestingly, in light of your comments about sharpness, the WPF
    version is less sharp (and hence has notably lower stroke density in some letters).
    Here's a close-up:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/verctwpf2_5134.gif]\r\n\r\nYou
    wrote: <em>It is an axiom of ClearType that precise spacing of differently rendered
    vertical stems (by sub-pixel positioning) is better than irregular spacing of
    similarly rendered stems...</em>\r\n\r\nThis is not an axiom of ClearType per
    se: the majority of shipping ClearType implementations do not use subpixel positioning.
    The WPF implementation does."
  created: '2009-07-03 07:17:41'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "@KevinLarson!?\r\n>...there are several apparent knockoffs of ClearType including
    Apple\u2019s Quartz and Adobe\u2019s CoolType.\r\n\r\nIf you really mean knocked
    off, your history is completely sdrowkcab. \r\n\r\nI am going to assume that you
    are just parroting something that you heard wrong... you heard that MS got knocked-up?
    As in, Adobe's 1989 introduction of desktop anti-aliasing impregnated MS with
    the idea of anti-aliasing, and Apple's 1999 upcoming release of Quartz was MS's
    wake-up call for a 1998 announcement of what turned out to be ClearType's circa
    1999-2007 multiple caesarean?\r\n\r\n>Hi David, I don\u2019t really know what
    you are saying, so I\u2019ll guess.\r\n\r\nYou don't I'm afraid, generally know
    what either of us are talking about but I appreciate how hard you try. \r\n\r\nJohn
    said someone else said:\r\n>You wrote: It is an axiom of ClearType that precise
    spacing of differently rendered vertical stems (by sub-pixel positioning) is better
    than irregular spacing of similarly rendered stems...\r\n\r\nWho ever decided
    we have to choose... should be boiled. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-07-03 11:40:25'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "If I understand the objection to my hypothesis correctly, coloured subpixels
    are so small that almost nobody, including protans and deutans, perceives the
    colour.\r\n\r\nI could go either way on this. The fringing and blurriness of subpixel
    rendering is invisible to some people and visible and distracting to others. The
    question here is: Which of those categories do colourblind people fit into? Then
    the next question is: Do they have it worse than, the same as, or better than
    colour-normals? \u201CHaving it worse\u201D\_can be defined in many ways, as by
    testing performance or asking their preferences. \r\n\r\nAlthough I know Microsoft
    prefers to compare aliased or \u201Cbi-level\u201D\_letters against ClearType
    so that ClearType always wins (instead of testing other smoothing methods against
    ClearType), I will not unanxiously await publication of genuine research involving
    colour-deficient subjects. I think Kevlar is perhaps overaccustomed to having
    his predictions borne out by the research his company funds, but he should be
    prepared for a surprise. It could, you know, actually happen.\r\n\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe
    Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-07-03 20:24:22'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Presumably the reason that MS prefers to compare aliased letters to ClearType
    is that at the sizes in question, for TrueType under GDI, the fonts typically
    turn off standard anti-aliasing anyway. So the \"smoothed\" (grey-scale anti-aliased)
    fonts are aliased at those size ranges anyway.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-07-04 05:21:15'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Thomas, you must have an amazingly impressive Presum\xE9. ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-07-11 12:39:01'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: Just wanted to point out this [[http://windowsclient.net/wpf/white-papers/wpftextclarity.aspx|Text
    Clarity in WPF]] article. (via [[http://blogs.msdn.com/text/archive/2008/08/18/wpf-text-clarity-doc.aspx|Windows
    Text Blog]])
  created: '2009-07-13 20:55:24'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Tracking.
  created: '2009-07-13 20:58:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: The 'font comparison' appendix to the article to which Miguel linked is painful.
    There's way more colour fringing than I ever see in ClearType on my own system.
  created: '2009-07-14 17:50:51'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">...way more colour fringing than I ever see in ClearType on my own system.\r\n\r\nGet
    bigger dots, Join the multitudes! ;)\r\n\r\nAnd Speaking of Dots, I was curious
    in skimming the article sited for this thread, at the illustrations. The samples
    marked as '10point' looked odd, and I also got a wisp of odd motive in the showing
    of 11point for another font. \r\n\r\nAs the article says though, the graphics
    may not look the same size on your screen, and as has been pointed out, this rendering
    may not look the same as the users' rendering of the same font in their versions
    of Windows. \r\n\r\nI count 13 pixels tall and given one more for clearance we
    have an em of 14 x 7.2 (number of 10 pt fonts per inch) = 100.8 dpi. So what it
    could say, to be as informative to the widest audience as it wishes to be authoritative,
    is that this 10 point is shown at a higher-than-average resolution or, alternatively
    that it is '12point', to the widest swath of the ClearType audience. The best
    thing overall for a 96 dpi audience, perhaps.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/'scuzecrudegrap_5157.gif]\r\n<em>(top
    is setting sizes on Mac, bottom is sample from article)</em>\r\n\r\n(this of course's
    piled on top of the fact that a screen font's rounded pixel size is  never a whole-numbered
    point size, unless the resolution per inch is a multiple of 72, which only John
    has, as far as I know)\r\n\r\nIt all could take us to a discussion of 'size' we
    already had. (and I wish we had meta-Thread mongers in this forum of the quality
    of the meta-Font-ID mongers we have:-) But the point is, if one is to represent
    values in points alone, the disturbingly de-educational is not only possible,
    but likely.\r\n\r\nOverarching this minor issue, and as we all should know in
    general, is that judging individual sizes of type for excellence in screen font
    performance (and in particular for the one-size-fits-some use of type on the web),
    is not entirely dissimilar from judging automotive excellence by a car's performance
    on one kind of road at one speed. And judging ClearType against b&w fonts is like
    judging a suburban off-road vehicle against a 5th century apple cart, when a Hummer
    is standing by, looking for a race...\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/'scuzecrudegrap_5157.gif]"
  created: '2009-07-15 14:33:47'
- author:
    name: Skeletor
  body: Kudos on calling them out on shoddy research. Personally, I find any form
    of font smoothing to cause severe eye strain and headaches, but Microsoft doesn't
    seem to want to hear that sort of thing after spending so much on ClearType.
  created: '2009-08-09 03:54:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>Get bigger dots, Join the multitudes!</em>\r\n\r\nI've got bigger
    dots now: I traded my 17inch 144 ppi screen for a 30inch 96ppi screen. But I'm
    sitting further away, so the dots are perceptually about the same size as they
    used to be. :)\r\n\r\nStill, the screenshots Miguel linked to have massively more
    colour-fringing than any ClearType rendering I've seen at any resolution."
  created: '2009-08-09 04:07:28'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "> I find any form of font smoothing to cause severe eye strain and headaches....\r\n\r\nYou'll
    !ove Trixie!\r\n\r\n>But I\u2019m sitting further away,..\r\n\r\nYou'll !ove a
    floor mat!\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-08-09 12:02:01'
date: '2009-06-30 19:29:25'
title: Article on ClearType in Windows 7

---
