---
author:
  name: abattis
  picture: 112245
body: "Jonathan Kew of XeTeX fame is now working at Mozilla, and <a href=\"http://markmail.org/message/wuhycuhwzxuwboua\">on
  the www-font@w3.org mailing list posed a simple poll</a>:\r\n\r\n<em>(A) FONT VENDORS:\r\n\r\nIf
  there is a W3C recommendation for web fonts that specifies\r\n\r\n* internal compression
  of the font data (presumably based on MTX or ZOT ideas, but details TBD), and\r\n\r\n*
  same-origin checking, with CORS to allow controlled relaxation of restrictions,
  similar to how Firefox 3.5 deals with TTF/OTF fonts,\r\n\r\nwould you be willing
  to license your fonts for use in accordance with such a standard?</em>\r\n\r\nPlease
  post your thoughts here :-)"
comments:
- author:
    name: scannerlicker
    picture: 130346
  body: Well, screen fonts are screen fonts. If they're build with that purpose, shouldn't
    their license approve it? I would let people use it for embedding on websites.
  created: '2009-07-03 21:04:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "It would help people make a decision about this if the implications of 'same-origin
    checking' were explained. In practical terms, how would this work and what would
    it mean for fonts on the web.\r\n\r\nTo put it another way, in what way would
    using 'same-origin checking' make linking a font for use in a website unlike,
    say, my just posting the font on a warez site and inviting all and sundry to download
    and use it in whatever way they like?"
  created: '2009-07-03 21:22:09'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>To put it another way, in what way would using \u2019same-origin checking\u2019
    make linking a font for use in a website unlike, say, my just posting the font
    on a warez site and inviting all and sundry to download and use it in whatever
    way they like?</cite>\r\n\r\nIt doesn't prevent the distribution of the fonts,
    but it makes the prosecution of illegal uses easier, because the fonts have to
    be uploaded to the website using the fonts and not just linked from a .ru domain. "
  created: '2009-07-04 09:16:40'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Thanks, Ralf. That is helpful.\r\n\r\nNow, what is CORS and how does that
    affect things?"
  created: '2009-07-04 21:11:20'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "\"<a href=\"http://www.w3.org/TR/access-control/\">Cross-Origin Resource
    Sharing</a>\" is like \"referrer checking\" - it is a way for webservers to refuse
    to send files to browsers, such as when the browser is loading a page from another
    site that links to files on your site. \r\n\r\nFor fonts, it means that if foo.com
    publishes a page with a @font-face font linked, bar.org cannot say in its CSS
    for its pages to be displayed using the font available from foo.com - well, bar.org
    CAN say that browsers should download the font from foo.com, but foo.com won't
    send it to them. \r\n\r\nHowever, for a site like openfontlibrary.org, it is possible
    to configure the webserver so that it allows cross-origin resource sharing with
    other sites.\r\n\r\nI hope the difference between this and EOT root strings is
    obvious; the effect is nearly the same, but the means are starkly different."
  created: '2009-07-04 23:17:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Thanks, David. So what we're looking at is what H\xE5kon Lie described here:\r\n\r\nhttp://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-style/2008Nov/0412.html\r\n\r\nTo
    fill out my understanding further, what does it mean to 'XOR a few bits'? And
    what are the options being considered for compression (MTX, ZOT, gzip) and what
    might their relative merits be?"
  created: '2009-07-05 01:43:50'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@all\r\n\r\nBy all means, get the technical issues out on the table. They
    can all be well-explained in non-techie, plain English.\r\n\r\nBut I'd like to
    repeat here what I posted on\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/59489\r\n\r\nFont-makers
    as a group need to swiftly move towards a consensus and begin to speak - at least
    publicly - with one voice on this issue.\r\nThose who don\u2019t quite understand
    the technical barriers to unlicensed use need to defer to trusted colleagues who
    do.\r\nJust as in a labor dispute - say, the Writers Guild of America strike a
    few years ago that stopped TV and Film production - fragmentation is enemy number
    one.\r\n\r\nJust my humble, but informed, opinion.\r\n\r\n@john hudson\r\n\r\n\"XOR
    a few bits\" refers to the obfuscation (scrambling) scheme that EOT uses. Part
    of the EOT spec that's been derided as \"DRM\".\r\nAs far as compression, ZOT
    seems to give the most impressive results so far. Vlad Levantovsky of Monotype
    has suggested a combination of MTX and ZOT, I believe. Another algorithm, LZMA
    has also been discussed.\r\nIt's been demonstrated that compression will result
    in much smaller file sizes and therefore faster page load times; or at least that's
    the goal. Expecially important for fonts going into mobile devices.\r\nCompression
    would also, today, have a barrier effect to unlicensed use in that no operating
    system would recognize the compressed font file. Someone who downloads the file
    wouldn't be able to just pop it into the Windows font folder, for instance, and
    use it. But that's part and parcel of what developing a web-specific font file
    format is all about."
  created: '2009-07-05 06:08:07'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Please post your thoughts here :-)\r\n\r\nI'm not sure what \"internal compression\"
    means. But I think compression of font files should be driven by external factors
    like, is it required? what's the document need? and what can the UA use? ...and
    then compress that (that being a font with no additional glyphs or tables), as
    required.\r\n\r\nCORS sounds pretty good, but I'm concerned that nearly every
    week (besides a new format being proposed), a new linking technique surfaces.
    \r\n\r\nI, and many others now, feel that the only way to address all of these
    issues at the foundries is to describe permissions and recommendations in an OT
    table, (where the w3c is not required to act), but I'm having a devil of a time
    finding all the existing linking possibilities, documenting then in terms of their
    capabilities and requirements and putting fields in the table proposal to allow
    their inclusion in our excellent scheme. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-07-05 12:32:30'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">but I\u2019m having a devil of a time finding all the existing linking possibilities,
    documenting then in terms of their capabilities and requirements and putting fields
    in the table proposal to allow their inclusion in our excellent scheme. \r\n\r\nYou
    could post a working draft here and have the community help complete it. Alternately
    perhaps you could organize an ad-hoc session at TypeCon. "
  created: '2009-07-05 15:00:40'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Richard: <em>Part of the EOT spec that\u2019s been derided as \u201CDRM\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nAs
    I understand it, the aspect of EOT that has been objected to as DRM is rootstrings,
    not bit obfuscation. I've not heard any objections to obfuscation on that basis
    and, tellingly, it is something that even H\xE5kon is leaving 'on the table',
    although he thinks that compression is sufficient."
  created: '2009-07-05 17:37:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, while we're talking about permissions, Microsoft, Mozilla, Google,
    Opera and others are engaged in a browser market dominance struggle in which web
    fonts are apparently the new front line. In the past few days, there have been
    almost 300 messages on the W3C font discussion list -- after an average of about
    two messages per year for the past decade --, much of it acerbic, accusatory or
    simply hostile. If there's going to be a consensus, I suspect it will involve
    two web font formats: both EOT and TTF/OTF. The former necessary for compatibility
    with existing versions of Internet Explorer, and the latter probably becoming
    the more common format. What's necessary to get that consensus is for MS to support
    the TTF/OTF solution alongside EOT, which I'm not currently holding my breath
    on, but it is possible. [I suppose MS might succeed in holding out for other browsers
    to support EOT, but we'd still end up with dual formats, since the other browsers
    would continue to support raw TTF/OTF with or without the kind of mechanisms being
    discussed in this thread.]\r\n\r\nThe TTF/OTF implementations that already exist
    (Opera, FireFox 3.5, ?) link to raw TTF/OTF font files and presume that only freeware
    or other fonts with open licenses will be used, i.e. fonts for which protection
    is not considered necessary. What is now being discussed are mechanisms to make
    this format palatable for font owners (not just font vendors but also e.g. publishers
    with custom fonts). These are optional mechanisms that could be added to the existing
    TTF/OTF format solution without breaking existing implementations for raw fonts,
    and introducing no new data that browsers would be obliged to handle, while providing
    some safeguards (e.g. compression and/or obfuscation) and limitations (single-origin
    linking, i.e. the font must reside on the same server as the webpages that use
    it).\r\n\r\nSomething like your 'perm' table seems to fit nicely within this scheme,
    in that it provides permissions information while not requiring the browser to
    do anything with this new data.\r\n____\r\n\r\nThat's what's happening on the
    web font format standards front, which seems to me the most important thing to
    watch because its the only front on which we have any hope of a limitation of
    the possible implementations (instead of a format war in the market, \xE0 la HD
    video formats).\r\n\r\nThen there are the independent solutions being put forward
    by TypeKit, Kernest and presumably others lurking in the wings. But I think these
    need to be considered in terms of services rather than formats per se. The format
    used by these services may have some impact on whether one chooses to license
    fonts for use by these services, but ultimately this is going to be a matter of
    contractual agreement rather than format permission.\r\n____\r\n\r\nBack to the
    original survey question:\r\n\r\nI'm not a font vendor, i.e. the distribution
    licensing terms or permissions of the fonts I make are generally determined by
    my clients, not by me. So the question as originally posed doesn't really address
    me. But if it is rephrased as 'Would I advise my clients for or against such a
    web font format?' then I think the answer is positive: I would advise in favour
    of this format. The single-origin checking is the kicker. If the main defence
    against illegitimate use of web linked fonts is going to be licensing policing,
    then there has to be a mechanism that makes it possible to determine whether a
    usage is legitimate or not, i.e. to identify who is using the font and where.
    Compression is probably in everyone's interest in a web font format, just as it
    is in graphics, video and audio formats."
  created: '2009-07-05 18:18:11'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "<cite>As I understand it, the aspect of EOT that has been objected to as
    DRM is rootstrings, not bit obfuscation.</cite>\r\n\r\nActually, obfuscation has
    been objected to as DRM as well, by a noticeable minority on the list. But those
    folks seem to have decided it's not really DRM after all.\r\n\r\nIn fact, pretty
    much *EVERY* move to do anything that User Agents would have to comply with, beyond
    downloading a font, has been objected to by somebody.\r\n\r\nThat being said,
    I agree that some sort of compromise is close at hand. I tend to expect that its
    protections will be weakened enough that many font vendors will not like it much.
    Which is a good reason to try to get consensus within the font development community.
    Then again, I'm not sure the browser vendors will agree to anything that would
    make the majority of font vendors reasonably happy.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-07-05 19:46:50'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "@jh: <em>what are the options being considered for compression (MTX, ZOT,
    gzip) and what might their relative merits be?</em> MTX and ZOT are \"inside font\"
    compression schemes, where a font is split up table by table and compressed with
    a algo suitable for that specific table; gzip is a widely implement general purpose
    compression algo already in http servers and browsers. \"in font\" compression
    effectively obfuscates web fonts so they can't be drag'n'dropped to local operating
    systems fonts folders, and can make fonts 30% smaller than GZIP. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-05 22:04:30'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Thanks, David. Yes, I like the idea of in-font compression as an option, i.e.
    not something that would be needed in all web fonts but something that a font
    vendor could specify as a license requirement or a publisher could opt to use
    to limit exposure of a font used online.
  created: '2009-07-05 22:55:44'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "@jh: This idea that obfuscation (via compression, or expressly for its own
    sake) will limit exposure of a font seems wishful thinking to me.\r\n\r\nNothing
    will stop graphic designers and everyone else who loves fonts and who do not respect
    font licenses - which is most people, from what I can tell - from not installing
    inevitable \"web font vacuum\" browser extensions that will automatically install
    every font they happen to browse across into the OS system folder, and using these
    fonts in their print design work. I would also expect such \"vacuums\" to do what
    non-paying web publishers want, too, automatically stripping the watermarks, XUIDs
    and so on so that running a web-spider to search out unlicensed fonts doesn't
    spot them. \r\n\r\nIf font vendors try to proscribe the behavior of paying users
    in an attempt to annoy non-paying users, they will only hurt their own sales by
    annoying their paying users. \r\n\r\nPolicing web fonts is going to be a total
    nightmare for those clients you just described on www-font, faced with the dilemma
    of having a font asset they wish to send to everyone who visits their website,
    yet not wanting anyone to use it. Perhaps Monotype and Adobe's legal teams will
    have time and money in the recession to write takedown notices to people publishing
    their fonts without licenses, as it makes more sense for them to bet their existing
    revenues (from print based publishers, who are in decline) on the chance that
    new revenues from web publishers (who have pent up demand, and are growing) will
    be more profitable than sticking with the declining market. But for clients as
    you've described, they paid all the costs and will not offset their loss of exclusivity
    through incoming revenue from the font assets. "
  created: '2009-07-06 06:05:16'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@all\r\n\r\nI'm glad to hear Thomas Phinney getting the same vibe as I do
    - that a solution is within reach.\r\nAll the more important that font-makers
    come together, and soon.\r\nI chose to use the analogy of a labor dispute because
    it highlights that <strong>this is a quid-pro-quo negotiation</strong>.\r\nThose
    browser-makers with reservations about a web-specific font file format are looking
    to font-makers for assurance that web fonts will get the time and attention that
    they deserve. Just offering up print fonts for web use is not going to get the
    job done. (I've done a lot of testing. Taking the bulk of fonts as they exist
    today, and readying them for the screen will require work, and lots of it.)\r\n\r\nAnd
    these fonts will need to be accompanied by simple, plain-English EULAs and reasonable
    pricing.\r\n\r\nActually, I <strong>do</strong> think of the font-making community
    in the same way as I do, say, professional baseball players. When the pro ball
    players go out on strike there's no replacing them; there <strong>is no</strong>
    professional baseball, period.\r\nAnd I think some of the folks involved in the
    discussions at the W3C have come around to sensing the issue in this light as
    well: that without enthusiastic and active participation by the pros, a dark cloud
    is cast on the future of typography on the web.\r\nNow, one ideologically thorny
    flaw in the analogy is that the business model for fonts looks to copyright and
    not strictly to pay-for-performance as in sports.\r\nSo, as I said to Vlad Levantovsky
    on another thread, \"Stop waving the EULA flag\". Stop going on about your \"rights\".
    Not because you're wrong, but because it's counter-productive.\r\nOn the web,
    the extent of your rights, as well as your opportunities, will be defined not
    by legalities, but by a file format implemented through an agreement among the
    major browser-makers.\r\nAnd these browser makers, web authors, and the browsing
    public sorely need and have a right to expect performance in exchange for this
    file format insofar as it provides reasonable protections against unlicensed distribution.\r\n\r\nAnd
    so the bottom line question that many await an answer to is this: <strong>if</strong>
    you are given these protections, will you perform?\r\nThat's the deal, yes or
    no?\r\n\r\n@dberlow\r\n\r\nAs per Sii's suggestion we can ad hoc 'til the cows
    in Georgia all come home, but politically, I think your proposal stands the same
    chance at the W3C as a snowball in hell.\r\nIt's similar in some respects to Thomas
    Lord's proposal, which many, myself included, find reasonable and intriguing.\r\nHowever,
    there is clearly no interest in making this new font file format into an experimental
    poster-child for a new labeling/wrapper scheme. There is a clear preference for
    a timely solution targeted narrowly at the problem at hand.\r\nI think your horse
    is dead, and the time to stop flogging it is soon. (Don't mean to be snide, it's
    just the way I see it. I don't think I'm alone.)\r\n\r\nRespectfully,\r\n\r\nRichard
    fink"
  created: '2009-07-06 06:39:51'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Dave, so basically what you're saying is that there is no way to use fonts
    on the web that isn't de facto giving the fonts away to anyone who wants them.
  created: '2009-07-06 08:04:46'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "John: Speaking plainly, yes. I think selling web fonts means kissing rents
    for desktop use (ie, print publishers) of those fonts goodbye, for all but handful
    of loyal print designers who WANT to send type designers money, and are lucky
    enough to still be in business. Perhaps this will be more than offset by the money
    made selling web fonts. Maybe it won't, and like everyone else in this depression,
    type developers will be earning significantly less money in 5 years time. \r\n\r\nPersonally,
    I think that all this talk about \"fence posts\" seems like wishful thinking about
    how the world really works, and in a couple of years these 200-emails-in-a-day
    discussions are going to be looked back on as a total waste of time that was costly
    and counterproductive. I mean, the guys who run thepiratebay.org got a <b>jail
    sentence,</b> and <b>the site is still up.</b> \r\n\r\nTom Lord and I spent a
    lot of time talking over this issue 9 months ago, and we really think that the
    best win-win-win situation for font developers, free software developers, and
    users  is something like his MAME proposal - something to get people reading licenses.
    \r\n\r\nPeople who love fonts really need to know what the license terms of the
    fonts they are downloading are. If the licenses are not <a href=\"http://river-valley.tv/ingimp-a-smorgasbord-of-usability-adaptive-uis-and-visually-arresting-graphic-design-for-2009/\">made
    available in a way people actually pause to read</a> - which is possible as that
    link demonstrates - then they will be ignored. \r\n\r\nCORS has a precendent in
    Firefox, and no one objects to it. Compression is a good idea, Jonathan Kew's
    ZOT is a fine free implementation, and no one objects to it. Neither of these
    things will stop the deflation of the print font market as I've described. More
    than these things isn't going to work in the real world - except better licensing
    visibility.\r\n\r\nThis does NOT mean machine-readable licenses - that invite
    DRM features in programs and DMCA-style lawsuits. I think that hammering out the
    details of how to do this is the only discussion that is good value for time/effort
    long term. "
  created: '2009-07-06 08:42:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Richard: <em>All the more important that font-makers come together, and soon.</em>\r\n\r\nWe've
    already been told on the W3C list, by a representative of the W3C, that the only
    opinion that counts is that of the browser makers and everyone else's is \u2018pragmatically
    irrelevant\u2019 except insofar as as it influences the browser makers. So far,
    I've seen precious little evidence of font makers influencing any browser makers,
    and I'm not sure what you think we should do once they've \u2018come together\u2019.
    Microsoft is the only browser maker that has expressed any interest at all in
    protecting fonts, and even then I can't help wondering if this isn't simply a
    stance that happens to fit with their strategy in the browser war.\r\n_____\r\n\r\nre.
    David Berlow's \u2018perm\u2019 table proposal:\r\n\r\n<em>I think your proposal
    stands the same chance at the W3C as a snowball in hell.</em>\r\n\r\nThe proposal
    doesn't ask anything of the W3C: its a font table that expresses specific license
    permissions in a font. It ain't the W3C's remit."
  created: '2009-07-06 09:01:55'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "<em>I can\u2019t help wondering if this isn\u2019t simply a stance that happens
    to fit with their strategy in the browser war.</em>\r\n\r\nRecalling the slashdot
    thread about this a year ago or so, I think many see it as a slippery slope to
    introduce DRM to the web."
  created: '2009-07-06 10:40:09'
- author:
    name: ChrisLilley
  body: "@John Hudson: <em>We\u2019ve already been told on the W3C list, by a representative
    of the W3C, that the only opinion that counts is that of the browser makers and
    everyone else\u2019s is \u2018pragmatically irrelevant\u2019</em>\r\nJohn, which
    representative of W3C told you that? I know it wasn't me ... pointer please?\r\n\r\nNice
    to see your contributions on www-font, by the way, especially the point about
    publishers with licensed, exclusive fonts which they do want to use on (their)
    websites."
  created: '2009-07-06 12:34:55'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@john_hudson\r\n\"<em>We\u2019ve already been told on the W3C list, by a
    representative of the W3C, that the only opinion that counts is that of the browser
    makers and everyone else\u2019s is \u2018pragmatically irrelevant\u2019 except
    insofar as as it influences the browser makers.</em>\"\r\n\r\nI didn't see this
    anywhere. I, too, would like the source of that quote. \r\nBut outside of it's
    harsh phrasing, essentially true, I would suppose.\r\nAnd that's why I wrote:\r\n\"<em>On
    the web, the extent of your rights, as well as your opportunities, will be defined
    not by legalities, but by a file format implemented through an agreement among
    the major browser-makers.</em>\"\r\nThis pretty much sums up the situation for
    anybody wishing to present anything on the web. That's why the standards movement
    started up in the first place. If the browser doesn't support the format you need
    on the client side, you're screwed.\r\nSo the mission becomes: influence the browser
    makers.\r\n\r\nAs far as David Berlow's permissions table:\r\n\"<em>The proposal
    doesn\u2019t ask anything of the W3C: its a font table that expresses specific
    license permissions in a font. It ain\u2019t the W3C\u2019s remit.</em>\"\r\n\r\nWrong.
    What the browser makers choose to support is very much their remit, as we've just
    established. You can't have it both ways. You can add ten tables, but what are
    you going to do if the browser makers choose to ignore them on implementation?
    \r\nYou are most definitely asking something of the browser makers, certainly,
    even if there is no formal spec from the W3C, otherwise the table is an exercise
    in pointlessness. You are asking them to display, or act upon, the table.\r\nSo,
    please, by all means ask them if they want to be bothered with it at this time?"
  created: '2009-07-06 16:01:58'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Chris Lilley -- <cite>... pointer please?</cite>\r\n\r\nThe comment was by
    Aryeh Gregor at 3.7.2009 with subject \"Re: Fonts WG Charter feedback\":\r\n<cite>Because
    the browser implementers are the ones who decide what formats they'll support.
    \ All other parties are therefore pragmatically irrelevant except insofar as they
    can get the browser implementers to agree with them.</cite>\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-06 16:40:21'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "@Daniels>You could post a working draft here\r\n\r\nThe second draft has
    gone to tool developers. The third will be posted by TypeConTime.\r\n\r\n>Alternately
    perhaps you could organize an ad-hoc session at TypeCon.\r\n\r\nI wish, and I
    thank you for the idea, but my goal here is to do the best possible presentation
    of as much knowledge as I can, to the most powerful people in the path of this
    thing. That means my lawyer, my tool developers and the committee to re-elect
    OT/OFF president and dictator for life. Besides which I have 3rd degree burns
    on my fingertips from unknowingly stepping into ad hoc audiences, like the new
    fellow I respond to down below.\r\n\r\n@Hudson>Microsoft, Mozilla, Google, Opera
    and others are engaged in a browser market dominance struggle...\r\n\r\nThat's
    one way of putting it. And what is the revenue of that market?\r\n\r\nAnother
    way of putting it is that the W3C has had an unnatural sometimes not so secret
    user agent struggle on its hands for 15 years and so fonts are going to blow the
    web to smithereens if someone doesn't do something 3 years ago. \r\n\r\nYet another
    way of putting it is that the OS/UA manufacturers have the non-OS/UA manufacturers
    by the throat and because one of them is a W3C headman, they are all unhappy.
    \r\n\r\n> I suspect it will involve two web font formats: both EOT and TTF/OTF.
    The former necessary for compatibility with existing versions of Internet Explorer,
    and the latter probably becoming the more common format.\r\n\r\nWith all due respect,
    if old versions of user agents do not work or cannot be made by the web developer
    to work with OT@F-F, the user whose agent it is will need to upgrade. Besides
    which, if a PERM table solves 'the problem', EOT can vanish as fast as a speedo-ing
    bullet.\r\n\r\n@Phinney>In fact, pretty much *EVERY* move to do anything that
    User Agents would have to comply with, beyond downloading a font, has been objected
    to by somebody.\r\n\r\n... beyond downloading a font, installing a font and deleting
    a font, I hope...:) That's all I want them to do.\r\n\r\n>@abattis\r\n\r\nI'm
    not going to quote you, but, I can read that you are misinformed. You think e.g.
    people \"love\" their User Agents more than they \"love\" their fonts;  Do you
    know how much bigger the revenue stream is for fonts than for W3C-compliant User
    Agents? (come to think of it, you think they are jealous?).\r\n\r\n\"Print people\"
    license if they need to, \"web people\" will license if they need to. Your opinion
    seems based on a misunderstanding of the place of IP in developing unique visual
    identities, (a force much more powerful than the web).\r\n\r\nBut if you've talked
    it all over with a Lord (whoever he is), that makes it all the more authoritative.
    \r\n\r\n>We\u2019ve [...] been told on the W3C list [...) that the only opinion
    that counts is [...] the browser makers and everyone else\u2019s is \u2018pragmatically
    irrelevant\u2019...\r\n\r\nNice to know, thanks and thanks for the compression
    terms. What happens if they are not of one opinion? What happens if they are not
    of one good opinion? What happens if they are not of one good legal opinion? \r\n\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-06 17:55:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Do you know how much bigger the revenue stream is for fonts than for
    W3C-compliant User Agents? </em>\r\n\r\nMaybe we should pass the hat round, and
    buy them out?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-06 21:41:13'
- author:
    name: ChrisLilley
  body: "<em>The comment was by Aryeh Gregor at 3.7.2009 with subject \u201CRe: Fonts
    WG Charter feedback\u201D:</em>\r\n\r\nThanks. Aryeh Gregor is not \"a representative
    of the W3C\". I'm puzzled why John Hudson thinks that to be the case."
  created: '2009-07-06 23:08:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Chris, sorry, I see that now. Aryeh's email address confused me, but I see
    that it is probably a list-specific e-mail; previously, I just spotted the \u2018w3c'
    in the email address and jumped to conclusions. So I withdraw my statement about
    \u2018a representative of the W3C'.\r\n\r\nActually, I've decided I'm probably
    riding the \u2018pragmatically irrelevant' statement too hard. It stung at the
    time."
  created: '2009-07-07 00:21:45'
- author:
    name: cfynn
    picture: 112122
  body: "This seems to me a bit like climate change. The time to act to accomplish
    a meaningful solution and prevent unfortunate consequences may have passed years
    ago, but we've mostly been talking since then. Now changes we don't like are upon
    us and, at this last minute, we start scrambling around trying to patch together
    a solution suggesting things like EOT many didn't want to have anything to do
    with a few years ago - and that, at best, may afford only temporary shelter, easily
    blown away.   \r\n\r\nI'm not suggesting nothing should be done - but let's be
    realistic about what can be accomplished at this late stage. TTF/OTF linking is
    already starting to happen - it's not going to go away.\r\n\r\nAdding something
    like David's PERM table or an EEULA table to the OTF spec should not be that difficult
    - though I think there needs to be a fairly immediate deadline for specifying
    the layout of this. Font developers and vendors could then, without too much difficulty
    start adding this table to their fonts - and begin trying to persuade at least
    some browser vendors to make use of the additional embedding bits etc. contained
    in the table. This table would be useful whatever the eventual font format(s)
    browser vendors decide to support.\r\n \r\n - CF  \r\n"
  created: '2009-07-07 08:57:21'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">...though I think there needs to be a fairly immediate deadline for specifying
    the layout of this\r\n\r\nI am not afraid to do this, but because having such
    a deadline will target the effort for those who are intent on all solutions failing,
    other people should be afraid...\r\n\r\nDon't forget that this problem, in my
    humble opinion, has resulted from unregulated development by a non-legislative
    unelected body of people who seem unable recuse or explain themselves in the presence
    of either unfair competition, or conflict of interest.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-07 11:37:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "...and who while on the one side refusing to have anything to do with DRM-like
    protections on the grounds that failure to respect them might open the browser
    makers to DMCA lawsuits, are already ignoring the embedding bits that are part
    of the format that they have chosen to implement. Since they don't own that format,
    and since that format is extensible under an ISO standard, they can't know that
    new linking permission bits or tables won't be added to that format.\r\n\r\nComing
    to TypeCon, David?"
  created: '2009-07-07 16:36:34'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "...but \r\n>Chris, sorry, I see that now. Aryeh\u2019s email address confused
    me\r\n\r\nBut on the other hand, HL/UA developer/w3c menber, did say this:\r\n\r\nPersonally,
    I'm not comfortable with formats that add more licensing\r\ninformation, even
    if the corresponding standard says it can be\r\nignored. It seems quite easy to
    construct a case where the browser, by\r\nignoring digital rights in the files,
    breaks DMCA-like laws and is\r\ntherefore a \"circumvention device\". I'm not
    convinced that the\r\nstandard would trump the law in court.\"\r\n\r\nSO000oooo.....
    I think perhaps it should work like this?\r\n'we' make a table (perm) proposal
    and assuming it survives, or it will survive, for having been designed so browsers
    can easily Present 100% of the Permissions to Users, (both web dev. and end using
    people) and Enforce 0%. Presentation will include all ness. links to ownership
    lic. options and future auto lic. options as they become available. This is on
    our current path I believe, though One developer is resisting immediate Internationalization
    capabilities, and that is concerning me. What to do? \r\n\r\nPresenting Recommendations
    to users, then should be icing on the cake that the browsers can take credit for
    and may compete on typographically with an open std via which they can help users
    design and employ type more effectively. \r\n\r\nI am happy with that. But we
    have to add more lic. info... there's more divers licensing to do. And the spec
    for the table is growing exponentially entertaining.\r\n\r\nI'm also sorry that
    I'm tempted to explain to another person, much less from the w3c, that this is
    <em>not</em> like photography we are licensing here, (or music, or text, or graphics).
    . . but I don't seem to have time. \r\n\r\nTypeCon is getting close is it?\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-07 18:28:28'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>It seems quite easy to construct a case where the browser, by\r\nignoring
    digital rights in the files, breaks DMCA-like laws and is\r\ntherefore a \u201Ccircumvention
    device\u201D.</cite>\r\n\r\nTherein lies your big problem: the needs, desires,
    and intention of font designers will probably never trump potential abuse of DMCA-likw
    laws in the eyes of software developers. Given that web font formats and the related
    issues will probably remain a morass for years, it might help those want web font
    protections and whatnot to join the cause of DMCA reform as a gesture of goodwill."
  created: '2009-07-07 21:38:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "James, while I'm no great fan of the DMCA, I'm not yet convinced that a gesture
    of goodwill is what is necessary in the current situation. There is a time for
    such gestures, and I hope that such a time will come, but there is also a time
    to demonstrate that one is willing to make a fight out of something.\r\n\r\nOn
    the other hand, H\xE5kon ('twas he) may be bluffing or simply mistaken in his
    concerns about DMCA. See also\r\nhttp://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-font/2009JulSep/0266.html\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-07 23:36:37'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "@ Richard: \"this is a quid-pro-quo negotiation.\"\r\n\r\nI'm not at all
    convinced of that. The browser vendors aren't really giving up anything, have
    nothing at risk really. Any change is good for them. The font vendors are worried
    about losing their entire livelihoods.\r\n\r\n@Chris Fynn: \"TTF/OTF linking is
    already starting to happen - it\u2019s not going to go away.\"\r\n\r\nIt's not
    going to go away, but it isn't a huge deal until/unless Microsoft starts to support
    it in IE (on top of the other browsers doing it).\r\n\r\nThe converse is also
    true: any other solution needs to be supported by at least MS/IE and Mozilla/Firefox
    (and arguably Apple/Safari) to become a real standard in the practical sense,
    which sees people using it widely.\r\n\r\n@ abattis: \"I think selling web fonts
    means kissing rents for desktop use (ie, print publishers) of those fonts goodbye\"\r\n\r\nIf
    everybody will have the font, why won't they use it for web use as well? It seems
    to me inescapable (with any of the options being discussed) that if it destroys
    the retail market for desktop fonts, it stifles any such market from even emerging
    for web fonts. What am I missing here? \r\n\r\n@ John Hudson: \"H\xE5kon (\u2019twas
    he) may be bluffing or simply mistaken in his concerns about DMCA\"\r\n\r\nI believe
    that some of the Mozilla/Firefox folks expressed similar concerns. Not saying
    those concerns were justified, just that they had them.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-07-08 02:28:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>\u201CTTF/OTF linking is already starting to happen - it\u2019s not going
    to go away.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nTrueDoc started to happen, and it went away (heck,
    the whole Netscape browser as it then was went away). I expect several startup
    web font services like TypeKit and Kernest will start to happen and then go away.
    Raw TTF/OTF could easily be replaced by a format that is as easy to implement
    and with no greater obligations of digital rights management on browsers, but
    which would include numerous optional gates between using fonts and giving fonts
    away. I think TTF/OTF linking happened because nothing else was happening, the
    non-MS browsers didn't want EOT, and they went for the easiest option, in part
    to force the issue. Okay, the issue is forced. W3C is possibly interested in defining
    a standard, let's start making some proposals. But <em>not</em> as additional
    formats alongside raw TTF/OTF linking. I think we should be totally clear that
    raw TTF/OTF linking is unacceptable <em>even for fonts with unrestrictive licensing</em>
    because font formats should resolve technical and usage problems, not licensing
    discrepancies. If a difference in licensing requires separate font formats, you
    know there's a basic error in thinking. A font with unrestrictive licensing might
    have open gates, but it should still have the same gates as another font. There
    is no need for multiple formats. [And if there were to be multiple formats, the
    one associated in users' minds with unrestricted licensing or \u2018free fonts\u2019
    shouldn't be the TTF/OTF format. That is just inviting every TTF/OTF in the world
    to be uploaded onto the new filesharing -- sorry, web publishing -- system.]"
  created: '2009-07-08 07:19:17'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "> http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-font/2009JulSep/0266.html\r\n\r\nForgetting
    about whether Opera has done their due diligence on their own software, if browser
    makers were going to be sued over font linking, who in their right minds would
    sue Opera, Mozilla or Firefox first?\r\n\r\n>And if there were to be multiple
    formats, the one associated in users\u2019 minds with unrestricted licensing or
    \u2018free fonts\u2019 shouldn\u2019t be the TTF/OTF format\r\n\r\nThat's already
    done. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-07-08 10:36:51'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>That\u2019s already done.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm not convinced that it can't
    be undone. The only reason I see that \u2018it won't go away\u2019 is that there
    are people saying so, and no one has yet come up with an acceptable alternative.
    But Thomas makes a good point: so long as Microsoft hold out against TTF/OTF linking,
    it isn't a big problem. The browser makers are very, very keen in interoperability,
    which is why Opera et al are trying to make their possible support of a second
    webfont format conditional on Microsoft supporting TTF/OTF linking. I think Microsoft
    should just say no.\r\n\r\nOne of the lines along which I am thinking is something
    like this: the sfnt format is extensible, so extend it to include the gates and
    bulkheads necessary to make it an appropriate format for web fonts. I have no
    objection to TTF/OTF being the web font format if TTF/OTF fonts come with optional
    gate and bulkhead systems, of which something like your perm table or an embedded
    electronic EULA table would be one example (others would be compression, domain-linking,
    single-origin linking, etc. What I object to is putting these gates and bulkheads
    into a <em>different</em> web font format but still supporting TTF/OTF as the
    \u2018free font\u2019 format."
  created: '2009-07-08 16:01:55'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@thomas phinney who wrote:\r\n\r\n&#8220;<em>The font vendors are worried
    about losing their entire livelihoods.</em>&#8221;\r\n\r\n&emsp;Firstly, do you
    know if 401K's will be exempt from this? Or are web fonts going to wipe those
    out, too? After all, for those planning on a forced retirement due to web fonts,
    this is important information! (Just a little gallows humor, Thomas. My Israeli
    friends are getting inside my head.)\r\n&emsp;I'd like to know if you agree with
    this assessment:\r\n&emsp;If it is anyone's firm belief that Web Fonts will bring
    about a world where, because of unrestricted access to font files on web servers,
    font makers will no longer be able to get paid for their work, then it's important
    to realize that the process has already begun and there's no stopping it. It's
    a process that can be influenced and modified, but not reversed.\r\n&emsp;IE has
    supported @font-face using EOT files for many years. I can already convert any
    TTF file into an EOT and it will display in IE. I can use \"free\" fonts, retail
    fonts, it doesn't matter. And as long as I'm willing to ignore copyright considerations
    I can do anything I like. And those that believe that font makers will no longer
    be able to get paid are implicitly acknowledging that I can do what I like and
    get away with it.\r\n&emsp;Otherwise, why the worry?\r\n&emsp;Plus, I can pick
    up the retail fonts I need at no charge on the darknet. No money down.\r\n&emsp;Now,
    recently, Safari and FireFox have both begun supporting font-linking as well,
    but they support linking to \"raw\" font files that I don't have to pre-process
    to use.\r\n&emsp;So you would figure that I'm all ready to roll. Time to start
    using web fonts today. Not quite.\r\n&emsp;The one thing that's stopping me is
    lack of @font-face support in older versions of FireFox and, to a lesser extent,
    Safari. If I want to get a uniform result across browsers, I have to wait the
    couple of years for enough FireFox users to upgrade to version 3.5 to bring my
    expectation of cross-browser uniformity to an acceptable level.\r\n&emsp;But once
    that threshold is reached, web fonts are a completely practical proposition.\r\n&emsp;So,
    if there is a firm, rational basis for the worry, then it would be wise to start
    looking for a way to replace that lost income starting today.\r\n\r\nRight?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-08 19:56:50'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "It seems like the fear is based on the assumption that graphic designers
    hate paying for fonts and only do it because...well, I'm not sure why in that
    scenario.\r\n\r\nAs it is  now, I assume that graphic designers and print shops
    are the primary purchasers of fonts. I also assume (from experience as a graphic
    designer) that most designers know how to very easily get fonts if they want to
    without having to pay for them.\r\n\r\nSo it seems like this already exists. I'm
    not sure how @font-face will make the problem any worse. I suppose grandma, not
    knowing any better, could accidentally or purposefully install a font from a web
    site to use on her own computer, but she wasn't really a paying customer before
    anyways, was she?\r\n\r\nI'd like to believe that it could work out like the music
    industry...make the asset easily available and usable to the consumer and many
    will buy it (even if many do not)."
  created: '2009-07-08 20:12:35'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "@TP: <em>If everybody will have the font, why won\u2019t they use it for
    web use as well?</em> Because it is far easier to spider the web and send takedown
    notices."
  created: '2009-07-08 20:32:11'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@abattis\r\n\r\nAre independent font makers in a position to do this? To
    spend a lot of time and money on takedown notices?\r\n\r\nMy opinion is that font
    makers might prosper in spite of all this.\r\nJust asking if the boogeyman is
    for real, that's all.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2009-07-08 22:36:26'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: '@Richard: I expect a "font-police.com" business will be started shortly. '
  created: '2009-07-09 00:08:00'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "@Richard:\r\n\r\nI agree with almost everything in your epic post above,
    except the final conclusion. Until/unless all the major browsers agree on and
    implement a single format for web fonts, web fonts won't take off (or any take
    off will be only via those vendors offering hybrid solutions, such as TypeKit
    and Kernest).\r\n\r\nUnfortunately, most type designers don't have a 401K. Folks
    like me who have worked for large companies are the exception.\r\n\r\n@abbatis:\r\n\r\nRichard
    is correct. Sending takedown notices is a time-consuming thing, and potentially
    a full-time job in itself. Many foundries already ignore all but the most flagrant
    violations because it just isn't cost-effective, or because attempting to police
    the web is a quick route to insanity. I don't see that having a couple of orders
    of magnitude more fonts on web servers will help that situation.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-07-09 04:47:56'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: '@tp: sure, but isn''t that a business opportunity for a savvy law firm?'
  created: '2009-07-09 08:26:47'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: And who, pray, will pay them? Not me.
  created: '2009-07-09 10:52:57'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> And who, pray, will pay them?\r\n\r\nWhy, they will work for free, over
    the Internet. Everything on the Internet is free. <sarcasm off>"
  created: '2009-07-09 13:04:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Some measure of font piracy is built in to DTP and the promiscuous font formats
    that we've been using for over 20 years, during which time the present digital
    font industry has grown and diversified, especially during the last few years.
    \r\n\r\nIn professional circles it is endemic, due to the peripatetic nature of
    design employment, and yet \"above\" a certain level, legit companies also form
    the best clients/customers.\r\n\r\nAs long as there is some indication of what
    is allowed and not allowed, there will be a variety of legal and non-legal font
    use.\r\n\r\nRecently in science news, it has been noted that virtuous behavior
    in one area of a person's life may be compensatory for transgressions elsewhere.
    And vice versa, which could be called the Spitzer Effect.\r\n\r\nSo the sky isn't
    falling, but at the same time we have to send a clear message, create a magnetic
    field against which people can set their moral compasses, whatever course they
    choose to take.\r\n\r\nNo doubt we are clothing our self interest in the garb
    of ethics, but that's the way everyone plays the game.\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2009-07-09 16:39:45'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Here's a random idea out of the blue that may have merit or may be ridiculous,
    but I'll toss it out there...\r\n\r\nWhat if the browser manufacturers implemented
    some sort of colophon feature? It's long been standard in pro web design to have
    a copyright block at the footer of the page. What if the browser, itself, rendered
    such a block in, say, the browsers bottom status bar?\r\n\r\nThe web site author
    could use a copyright tag, perhaps:\r\n\r\n[copyright]All Contents (c) 2009 megacorp[/copyright]\r\n\r\nAnd
    then perhaps the browser, supporting @font-face would know how to grab the font's
    copyright data from the file itself (provided such a tag would exist in the font
    file format).\r\n\r\nSo in the browser's status bar, something like this could
    be displayed:\r\n\r\nSite: All Contents (c) 2009 megacorp; Fonts: Font X (c) 2008
    Adobe Systems, Font Y (cc) 2007 freebie font corp.\r\n\r\n(or maybe it could be
    rendered in a slide-down panel ala Firefox's pop-up blocker or password remembering
    windows)\r\n\r\nOn top of that, perhaps the browser could intercept any call to
    a font file directly with a pop-up dialogue window that also explains the copyright
    info. Something like:\r\n\r\nYou are about to access a font directly: [font-name]
    [copyright] [brief license overview] OK/CANCEL\r\n\r\nThe basis of the idea is
    to ensure licensing/EULA information is communicated (in the name of educating
    the naive) rather than burdening the web devs and/or browser devs with various
    forms of DRM or DRM-lite/esque features. \r\n\r\nJust a thought..."
  created: '2009-07-09 17:58:03'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Any kind of mandatory credits feature is a bad idea as things tend to pile
    up and become unmanageable. The free software world ran into trouble with this
    early on when all the little code snippets that required credit ended up creating
    huge lists of contributors that had to be dealt with and people got sick of it
    really quickly. Complex web sites would have to credit themselves, the CMS system,
    the plugins to the CMS system, the Flash stuff that powers their image zooming,
    fonts, images, etc. and the list would never end. \r\n\r\nAnd nobody is going
    to use web fonts if it involves the users seeing a popup and a clicking through
    licenses. People hate that kind of annoying interaction. Remember when Microsoft
    had to put a popup block in IE, hampering it\u2019s own popup ad network?  Even
    if they do, the users won\u2019t read the licenses anyway; they\u2019ll just install
    some plugin that automatically agrees to them without displaying them. "
  created: '2009-07-09 18:05:33'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "James is right.\r\n\r\nBut for what it's worth, pretty much all fonts have
    copyright notices built in already in a standard place. There's no technical reason
    one couldn't do such a thing.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-07-10 01:18:33'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@thomas phinney who wrote:\r\n\r\n<em>&#8220;Until/unless all the major browsers
    agree on and implement a single format for web fonts, web fonts won\u2019t take
    off (or any take off will be only via those vendors offering hybrid solutions,
    such as TypeKit and Kernest).&#8221;</em>\r\n\r\nTake off to the extent it would
    if there was that single format, no, it won't. I agree.\r\nBut enough said, epic
    or otherwise. Web font fatigue. \r\nGotta go do other things before Atlanta.\r\nLater...\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://readableweb.com\">Richard Fink</a>\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-10 05:10:55'
- author:
    name: gferreira
    picture: 110517
  body: '@aluminium: <a href="http://blog.fontembedding.com/post/2008/08/04/Introducing-the-Colophon-to-the-Web-a-New-Business-Model-for-Fonts.aspx">A
    similar idea was proposed by Bill Hill last year.</a>'
  created: '2009-07-10 07:55:17'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "<em>The basis of the idea is to ensure licensing/EULA information is communicated
    (in the name of educating the naive)</em>\r\n\r\nWhat licencing information should
    be displayed for \"restricted\" (as in not available under a free licence) fonts?
    There is no licence agreement between the foundry and the reader of the web page,
    nor would the foundry usually be interested in entering one."
  created: '2009-07-10 13:06:19'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">What if the browser manufacturers implemented some sort of colophon feature?
    \r\n\r\nLook! Users (and I don't mean 'end' users, but web developing users),
    do not want to 'read' licensing information. They just want clear statements of
    their permissions, should they seek then. The only other thing that can get them
    and browser bowsers drooling is if you have quality information in the font pertaining
    to its best uses, i.e. recommendations. \r\n\r\nEnd users are just not in this
    loop unless the browser developers are sloppy font pigs.\r\n\r\n> A similar idea
    was proposed... last year.\r\n\r\nAnd? It was useless last year too. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-07-10 13:45:07'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Well, it looks like we're siding with it being more of a 'ridiculous' idea,
    and I really don't disagree. ;o)\r\n\r\nBut I guess that does still leave me scratching
    my head a bit as to what kind of solution the industry is looking for. \r\n\r\nBut
    maybe there isn't 'one' solution that the industry is looking for.\r\n\r\nIt seems
    like there are maybe a few camps:\r\n\r\n - those that think @font-face means
    that all people will just download the fonts they want from various web sites
    and never ever pay for another font again as long as they live.\r\n\r\n - those
    that want/hope for a DRM system that somehow--unlike every DRM system before--will
    actually work as intended and not annoy the paying customers\r\n\r\n - those that
    are going with the flow and just see it as another venue for both sales and illicit
    use\r\n\r\n - those that want some sort of web font format that is compressed,
    subsetted, and slightly munged. Not DRM, but definitely a different file format.\r\n\r\nSeems
    like the last 2 are the likely scenarios going forward, eh?\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-10 15:46:59'
date: '2009-07-03 20:14:37'
title: Web Fonts Poll

---
