---
author:
  name: grid
  picture: 110160
body: "Hello Type Folk,\r\n\r\nI know someone here has a succinct answer to this question.
  Please lend your expertise.\r\n\r\nA designer I work with has a project that is
  set in multiple languages. She's using InDesign on a Macintosh, and has set all
  of the Chinese in the System font STHeiti. It's license does not permit the font
  being embedded into a PDF, which is how the job will go to press. She made some
  inquires, but did not make much headway in finding a substitute that could be embedded.\r\n\r\nTo
  publish the document as a PDF requires turning the font to outline, which if you
  only had to do it once would be no big deal, but it hampers sending files out to
  the end client and translators for corrections. And it jumps the file size.\r\n\r\nDoes
  anyone know of a similar font that can be purchased in the US, preferably over the
  Internet at an English language website? Or is this a fact-of-life with double-bit
  Chinese fonts that we're just going to have to live with?\r\n\r\nBill Lomax"
comments:
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "On my Adobe CS3 installation DVDs, there is a folder Goodies/Fonts containing
    in particular a font called AdobeHeitiStd-Regular.otf (and other fonts that look
    Chinese to me, AdobeKaitiStd-Regular.otf, AdobeMingStd-Light.otf etc). Did you
    have a look there?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-07 00:10:32'
- author:
    name: WType
    picture: 116173
  body: "The problem you mention sounds strange to me. I never have any problem with
    embedding any chinese font into PDF from any of the Adobe software. \r\n\r\nIs
    your designer friend using Mac or PC? Is she using the original Adobe software?
    If you are using any Mac machine with original Adobe softwares you shouldn't have
    such problem, because logically speaking, any system font came along with Mac
    OS would be covered by the licensing.\r\n\r\nA lot of designers in developing
    countries (including those in mine) like to install Mac OS in PC and use pirated
    softwares. Once you do that, you would have a lot of problems.\r\n\r\nweng"
  created: '2009-07-07 03:14:52'
- author:
    name: grid
    picture: 110160
  body: "Thank you both for taking time to respond. \r\n\r\nI work on a Macintosh,
    and so does the designer who has the font issue. I don't know if she's running
    Tiger or Leopard, we're a few hundred miles apart, and I don't generally do house
    calls.\r\n \r\nThat might work Michel. I opened AdobeHeitiStd-Regular.otf  and
    Apple's STHeiti.ttf in FontLab, and although I see Adobe's version has a somewhat
    smaller glyph count, it has \"Editing of the document allowed\" which should allow
    it to be saved into the PDF. Bravo.\r\n\r\nOne would think that Weng. The font
    software is licensed to Apple and supplied with the System install disk,  I can
    open it in FontLab and see that it's from Changzhou SinoType Technology Co., Ltd.
    and that \"Embedding of this font is not allowed.\" That is where our problem
    resides. I think substituting AdobeHeitiStd might resolve the issue, IF all the
    glyphs used are present. If memory serves, when we were using MacOS 9, there was
    also a \"simplified\" version of the supplied Chinese font that had a reduced
    glyph set.\r\n\r\nMakes design more complicated when you're not fluent in the
    language.\r\n\r\nThanks again, I'm going to try a font substitution and see if
    the line endings change.\r\n\r\nBill Lomax"
  created: '2009-07-07 03:59:07'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Bill --\r\n\r\nKen Lunde, who is the CJK guy at Adobe, sometimes comes around
    the Typophile forums and could probably offer some insight or direction. But since
    he hasn't shown up in this thread yet, so you might contact him directly: http://lundestudio.com/"
  created: '2009-07-07 12:58:50'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite> \u201CEmbedding of this font is not allowed.\u201D That is where our
    problem resides. </cite>\r\n\r\nYes, but it also says \"allow subsetting\" and
    I don't see why InDesign refuses to \"subset\"."
  created: '2009-07-07 14:15:17'
- author:
    name: grid
    picture: 110160
  body: "I don\u2019t know Michel. It should allow subsetting. Up until this morning,
    I had not tried saving text set in STHeiti as a PDF. I copied an article written
    in Chinese this morning from worldjournal.com into TextEdit, changed the font
    to STHeiti and saved it as a PDF. It worked fine, no issues. I tried it using
    the same text in InDesign, and got this error message. \"This font could not be
    embedded due to restrictions in the font file. The font must be installed to view
    or print this file properly with Adobe Acrobat. View additional errors?\" \r\n\r\nSince
    we're working in a Mac and PC environ, it's not a given that the client or the
    translators will have that font installed. I believe the final form will be posted
    as a PDF on the Internet, as well as being printed.\r\n\r\nThank you for the pointer
    Kentlew, after checking into this further, I will contact Ken directly if I cannot
    resolve this.\r\n\r\nBill Lomax\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-07 17:45:29'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>it\u2019s not a given that the client or the translators will have
    that font installed.</cite>\r\n\r\nI tried a step further: I went on the <a href=\"http://www4.bmo.com/chinese/\">Bank
    of Montreal Chinese homepage</a>, selected Traditional Chinese, copied some text
    there, pasted it in InDesign with STHeiti selected, exported the text as pdf (without
    STHeiti being embedded), and copied the resulting pdf file <a href=\"http://www.iro.umontreal.ca/~boyer/typophile/STHeitiTrial.pdf\"><strong>here</strong></a>;
    I then tried to read it from my PC using Internet explorer. Internet explorer
    (in fact some Adobe plugin) complained that a resource was missing, went to fetch
    the missing font and could eventually display the text.\r\n\r\nMy guess is that
    if you use Adobe applications to access the pdf file, the font STHeiti will be
    properly displayed even if it is not embedded  (provided the application accessing
    the file can connect to the internet to get the missing resource).\r\n\r\nMichel "
  created: '2009-07-07 19:32:50'
- author:
    name: grid
    picture: 110160
  body: "(Provided the application accessing the file can connect to the internet
    to get the missing \r\n\r\nThat probably is true Michel. The place it's likely
    to fail is at press, and it could potentially be an expensive fix. Remember the
    bad ol' days when PostScript printers would set Courier when a font could not
    be located? That sort of thing still happens. Think your solution of using AdobeHeitiStd
    instead of Apple\u2019s version, STHeiti, is going to be the ticket, ...if the
    brochure text doesn\u2019t use one or more of the 2,200 odd glyphs that are not
    mutually shared.\r\n\r\n- Bill Lomax"
  created: '2009-07-07 20:49:14'
- author:
    name: grid
    picture: 110160
  body: "I\u2019m going to consider this issue resolved. I substituted AdobeHeitiStd-Regular.otf
    for STHeiti.ttf in the IDCS3 file and was able to generate a PDF without error
    messages.\r\n\r\nMy sincere thanks to all who took the time to respond.\r\n\r\n-
    Bill Lomax"
  created: '2009-07-08 00:18:47'
- author:
    name: lunde
    picture: 111902
  body: "As the person at Adobe who built AdobeHeitiStd-Regular.otf, I can tell you
    with much confidence that its design is the same as STHeiti.ttf. Substituting
    the fonts as you did was the right solution. The OS/2.type value of STHeiti.ttf
    is set to 2, which explicitly denies embedding. The value in AdobeHeitiStd-Regular.otf
    is set to 8, which allows embedding.\r\n\r\nDr. Ken Lunde\r\nSenior Computer Scientist,
    CJKV Type Development\r\nAdobe Systems Incorporated\r\nlunde@adobe.com"
  created: '2009-07-08 05:45:22'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "I've noticed that as well after the publisher used \u6C49\u4EEA\u4E2D\u7B49\u7EBF\u7B80.OA
    / \u6C49\u4EEA\u4E2D\u9ED1\u7B80.OA with no problem."
  created: '2009-07-08 10:51:02'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>The OS/2.type value of STHeiti.ttf is set to 2, which explicitly denies
    embedding.</cite>\r\n\r\nKen\r\n\r\nIf I run the Mac Fonttools command <code>ftxdumperfuser
    -A d -t 'OS/2'</code> on STHeiti, I get in the resulting <code>&lt;filename&gt;.OS_2.xml</code>
    the following\r\n<code>\r\n&lt;!--&nbsp;Microsoft&nbsp;version&nbsp;1&nbsp;'OS/2'&nbsp;data&nbsp;--&gt;\r\n&lt;OS_2Table&nbsp;version=\"1\"&gt;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&lt;xAvgCharWidth&nbsp;value=\"481\"&nbsp;/&gt;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&lt;usWeightClass&nbsp;value=\"Normal\"&nbsp;/&gt;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&lt;usWidthClass&nbsp;value=\"Medium\"&nbsp;/&gt;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&lt;fsType&gt;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&lt;bit0_Reserved&nbsp;value=\"FALSE\"&nbsp;/&gt;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&lt;bit1_RestrictedLicense&nbsp;value=\"TRUE\"&nbsp;/&gt;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&lt;bit2_PreviewAndPrint&nbsp;value=\"FALSE\"&nbsp;/&gt;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&lt;bit3_Editable&nbsp;value=\"FALSE\"&nbsp;/&gt;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&lt;bit8_NoSubsetting&nbsp;value=\"FALSE\"&nbsp;/&gt;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&lt;bit9_BitmapEmbedOnly&nbsp;value=\"FALSE\"&nbsp;/&gt;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&lt;/fsType&gt;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&lt;subscript&gt;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&lt;ySubscriptXSize&nbsp;value=\"100\"&nbsp;/&gt;\r\n...\r\n</code>\r\n\r\nI
    am curious; what does NoSubsetting value=\"FALSE\" mean?\r\n\r\nMichel\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-08 12:43:59'
- author:
    name: lunde
    picture: 111902
  body: "From the OpenType Specification: \"No subsetting: When this bit is set, the
    font may not be subsetted prior to embedding. Other embedding restrictions specified
    in bits 0-3 and 9 also apply.\" In other words, if this bit is *not* set, the
    font can be subsetted prior to embedding.\r\n\r\nDr. Ken Lunde\r\nSenior Computer
    Scientist, CJKV Type Development\r\nAdobe Systems Incorporated\r\nlunde@adobe.com"
  created: '2009-07-08 15:45:54'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "And, given the Opentype <a href=\"http://www.microsoft.com/typography/OTSpec/os2.htm#fst\"><strong>fsType</strong></a>
    spec, the value\r\n<code>\r\n    &lt;fsType value=\"00000000 00000010\"/&gt;\r\n</code>\r\nreturned
    by <code>ttx -t 'OS/2'</code> on STHeiti says indeed unequivocally (since the
    only bit to be 1 is bit one)\r\n<dl><dt>bit 1 (mask 0x0002)</dt><dd>\r\nRestricted
    License embedding: <BR>\r\nFonts that have <strong>only</strong> this bit set
    <strong>must not be modified, embedded or exchanged in any manner</strong> without
    first obtaining permission of the legal owner. \r\n<em>Caution</em>: For Restricted
    License embedding to take effect, it must be the only level of embedding selected.\r\n</dd></dl>\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\n\r\nMichel\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-08 17:32:03'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Yet, if I paste some text in TextEdit, change the font to STHeiti, generate
    the pdf (with print), open it with acroread or acrobat, select \"File &gt; Properties...\",
    I see this\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/textedit_3449.jpg]\r\nwhich
    says a subset of STHeiti has effectively been embedded. \r\n\r\nThe pdf generated
    by InDesign (with export) gives a font info that looks different.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/indesign_5943.jpg]"
  created: '2009-07-09 00:06:52'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "This is generally not too surprising. Historically there were a bunch of
    Mac system fonts set to \"no embedding.\" My impression is that some of them have
    been changed to allow embedding in more recent versions of Mac OS.\r\n\r\nThere's
    a valid question as to why Apple or their vendor set the font to \"no embedding\"
    in the first place. There's an even better question as to why creating a PDF at
    the system level would embed such a font.\r\n\r\nI'd say InDesign is behaving
    as it ought to from what we know of the situation. Luckily you've found a good
    substitute font. IIRC, Heiti was produced by a sort of consortium and there are
    lots of different vendors' versions of what is basically the same design.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-07-10 00:48:50'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>I\u2019d say InDesign is behaving as it ought to from what we know
    of the situation. </cite>\r\n\r\nI wonder if InDesign could not do it in a more
    user friendly fashion. If Acrobat Professional or Acrobat Reader use AdobeHeitiStd-Regular
    to display pdf files for which STHeiti has not been embedded (that's what I deduce
    from the fact that Adobe Reader installed that font in its <code>Contents/MacOS/Resource/CIDFont</code>
    resource folder when I tried to view the pdf file for which STHeiti had not been
    embedded), why would InDesign not propose users that same substitution when exporting?
    Why are the resources available to Acrobat not available to InDesign? That would
    have saved time to Bill since he eventually did exactly that substitution. Of
    course, I would never propose that InDesign do a substitution without asking the
    user.\r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2009-07-10 01:59:11'
- author:
    name: jabez
    picture: 112785
  body: "This is timely, I'm having the same problem with STHeiti in exported pdfs
    (ID CS2 / OSX 10.4.11).\r\n\r\nFrom what I can see from my client's scans, STHeiti
    automatically gets substituted with Hei on their PCs, with missing glyphs.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/stheiti_4735.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\nLooks
    like getting my hands on AdobeHeitiStd-Regular.otf might be the only solution?\r\n\r\n<cite>Posted
    by Michel Boyer 6.Jul.2009 4.10pm:\r\nOn my Adobe CS3 installation DVDs, there
    is a folder Goodies/Fonts containing in particular a font called AdobeHeitiStd-Regular.otf\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nBefore
    I ask my boss to look for the CS2 installation DVD (we can't find it in the studio,
    I'm guessing she might have it at home), is anyone able to confirm if the same
    advice applies to CS2?"
  created: '2009-07-10 04:15:34'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "The CS2 Resources and Extras disc has Goodies > InDesign CS2 > Adobe Fonts,
    but I don't see Adobe Heiti.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-10 13:18:33'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "According the the <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Myriad_Pro#Adobe_Heiti\"><strong>Myriad</strong></a>
    Wikipedia entry:\r\n\r\n<cite>Adobe Heiti is a simplified Chinese typeface that
    borrows its Latin glyphs from Myriad.</cite> <cite><strong>It is included with
    Adobe Illustrator CS3, Adobe Reader 8 Simplified Chinese font pack, Adobe Creative
    Suite 4.0.</strong></cite>"
  created: '2009-07-10 13:44:46'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Michel asked: <cite>If Acrobat Professional or Acrobat Reader use AdobeHeitiStd-Regular
    to display pdf files for which STHeiti has not been embedded (that\u2019s what
    I deduce from the fact that Adobe Reader installed that font in its Contents/MacOS/Resource/CIDFont
    resource folder when I tried to view the pdf file for which STHeiti had not been
    embedded), why would InDesign not propose users that same substitution when exporting?
    Why are the resources available to Acrobat not available to InDesign? That would
    have saved time to Bill since he eventually did exactly that substitution. Of
    course, I would never propose that InDesign do a substitution without asking the
    user.</cite>\r\n\r\nI think you're making a few tacit assumptions, and missing
    some information.\r\n\r\nIf Acrobat/Reader needs a Japanese or Chinese font for
    substitution, and you don't have the East Asian language support for Reader installed,
    it will offer to download it. Acrobat/Reader uses Adobe Heiti to substitute for
    just about *any* Chinese font not embedded in the PDF. The fact that in your case
    it *happened* to be another version of Heiti was just a happy coincidence.\r\n\r\n\r\nNot
    knowing that it's a similar font, there's no particular reason that InDesign would
    choose to substitute it on export. And for that matter, why embed the generic
    substitution font, when anybody viewing that document will get that font anyway?
    It would be like embedding Adobe Sans in a PDF.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-07-11 07:25:13'
- author:
    name: tupper
  body: "> And for that matter, why embed the generic substitution font, when anybody
    viewing that document will get that font anyway?\r\n\r\nThe PDF might not be going
    (just) to Acrobat Reader."
  created: '2009-07-11 10:55:04'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>I think you\u2019re making a few tacit assumptions, and missing some
    information. [...]  Acrobat/Reader uses Adobe Heiti to substitute for just about
    *any* Chinese font not embedded in the PDF.<cite>\r\n\r\nI was missing information
    indeed.  I thought that a user that would be asked if he wants his nice font to
    be replaced by Abobe Sans would click on \"No\". What are the fonts with <code>fsType
    AND 0x0002</code> equal to <code>TRUE</code> that a professional using InDesign
    is likely to have to live with?\r\n\r\nMichel\r\n\r\n[edit 1] [edit 1 removed]\r\n[edit
    2] If I rely on <a href=\"http://www.fontembedding.com/local/documents/EULA-embedding.pdf\">this
    document</a> on the font embedding site, only Enschede and Letterhead would have
    fonts with nothing allowed. To that I guess we need to add some Mac system fonts.
    What else?"
  created: '2009-07-11 13:21:09'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I don't have a complete list, but other then those few Mac system fonts,
    fonts set to \"no embedding\" are fairly uncommon.\r\n\r\n> The PDF might not
    be going (just) to Acrobat Reader.\r\n\r\nTrue.\r\n\r\nI should have mentioned,
    if you want to substitute a font in InDesign, just use the \"Find Font\" mechanism
    to replace it, before making the PDF. In most other apps you could search and
    replace the formatting to change the font.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-07-11 20:44:04'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "InDesign's \"Find font\" works fine indeed and having Chinese fonts grouped
    together in the replacement menu makes life easier.\r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2009-07-12 23:03:55'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>My impression is that some of them have been changed to allow embedding
    in more recent versions of Mac OS. [Thomas]</cite></cite></cite> \r\n\r\nI just
    looked on a Mac with OS 10.5 and the font info given by FontBook says indeed that
    STHeiti is embeddable."
  created: '2009-07-13 19:49:33'
- author:
    name: gabriel00
    picture: 120118
  body: "Hi, this discussion was extremely usefgul to me, but I am still having some
    problems. I started a new thread about it at http://typophile.com/node/71159.
    Thought you guys might be interested. The original post is below:\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nHello
    fellow typophiles,\r\n\r\nI am having a problem embedding chinese fonts on PDF
    to print and view. This topic has been discussed before on http://typophile.com/node/59688,
    but I have hit another roadblock and would like to ask if anyone with the same
    problem found a solution.\r\n\r\nI designed a magazine (260+ pages) on InDesign
    CS3 on a Mac running OS 10.4 in mandarin, using the native mac font STHeiti. When
    it was time to send the piece to the printers, I discovered that the font was
    blocked and could not be embedded on a PDF.\r\n\r\nIn the above mentioned post,
    I discovered that Adobe has a font (Adobe Heiti) which is identical to STHeiti
    and can de embedded. But then ran into another problem. In the publication (remember,
    260+ pages) I used STHeiti <i>Light</i> and the Adobe mentioned font - at least
    the one I have in my system which came from my CS3 package - only has a <i>Regular</i>
    set.\r\n\r\nThis slight change will force me to redesign most pages, since they
    are mostly running text.\r\n\r\nI also noticed that in Snow Leopard, Apple has
    changed the native chinese font to a similar Heiti family. Therefore STHeiti no
    longer exists in the system.\r\n\r\nI have 3 questions I hope you can help me
    with:\r\n\r\n1- Do you know of any system upgrades that could allow access to
    STHeiti Light in a format that can be embbeded?\r\n\r\n2- Do you know if Adobe
    Heiti exists as a <i>Light</i> font and where I can get it?\r\n\r\n3- (And this
    is not really related) How do I substitute STHeiti for Adobe Heiti in 50 separate
    InDesign documents at once?\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nGabriel Attuy"
  created: '2010-06-09 00:38:07'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "On my MacBook Pro with OS X 10.5.8, STHeiti Light (which is in fact STXihei)
    is embeddable:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/STHeitiLight_4557.jpg]"
  created: '2010-06-09 02:42:29'
- author:
    name: gabriel00
    picture: 120118
  body: Thanks Michel, today I was able to get my hands on an iMac with OS 10.6 and
    found that Heiti SC Light (new font name, same family) is also embeddable and
    almost identical to STHeiti Light, which solved my problem.
  created: '2010-06-09 18:43:32'
- author:
    name: suepek
  body: "Hi, \r\nThanks for those explanation. \r\nI had the same issue: I'm using
    STKaiti in an Indesign document. \r\nI chose this font because it appears as \"embeddable\"
    on my MacBook Pro (OS X) font library. \r\nThe thing is: I can't save that document
    in PDF with this font (I still get the message saying that font is protected)...
    when I'm switching to STHeiti it works though...\r\nI don't really get why Indesign
    PDF export tool doesn't behave the same way with those two fonts.\r\nAny clue?\r\nThanks"
  created: '2013-07-09 19:33:56'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Even if  FontBook says Kaiti is embeddable, the font file itself contains
    \ <a href=\"http://www.microsoft.com/typography/otspec/os2.htm#fst\">fsType equal
    to <code>0x0002</code></a> which means, according to the specification on the
    Microsoft site\r\n<blockquote>\r\nRestricted License embedding: \r\nFonts that
    have <strong>only</strong> this bit set <strong>must not be modified, embedded
    or exchanged in any manner</strong> without first obtaining permission of the
    legal owner. \r\n</blockquote>\r\nThe hex value <code>0002</code> means exactly
    that bit 1 and only bit 1 is set. InDesign complies with what is written (without
    asking if you got permission).\r\n\r\nAdded: To answer completely your question,
    I should have added that the fsType of ST Heiti is not the same as that of ST
    Kaiti.\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-09 23:05:40'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: There are now many open-source and free Chinese fonts, and so using one of
    those would solve your problem, I would think.
  children:
  - author:
      name: ahyangyi
      picture: 120032
    body: Err.. Do we have free-but-not-open-source Chinese fonts at all?
    created: '2013-07-10 09:57:48'
  created: '2013-07-10 01:57:03'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Here are the fonts with fsType equal to <code>0x0002</code> on OS X 10.8
    in <code>/Library/Fonts</code>\r\n<PRE>\r\nFull Name                      fsType
    (16 bits)          (hexa)\r\n\r\nAyuthaya                       0000 0000 0000
    0010       0x0002\r\nKrungthep                      0000 0000 0000 0010       0x0002\r\nSathu
    \                         0000 0000 0000 0010       0x0002\r\nSilom                          0000
    0000 0000 0010       0x0002\r\nSongti SC Black                0000 0000 0000 0010
    \      0x0002\r\nSongti SC Bold                 0000 0000 0000 0010       0x0002\r\nSongti
    SC Light                0000 0000 0000 0010       0x0002\r\nSTSong                         0000
    0000 0000 0010       0x0002\r\nKaiti SC Black                 0000 0000 0000 0010
    \      0x0002\r\nKaiti SC Bold                  0000 0000 0000 0010       0x0002\r\nKaiti
    SC Regular               0000 0000 0000 0010       0x0002\r\nSTKaiti                        0000
    0000 0000 0010       0x0002\r\nSTFangsong                     0000 0000 0000 0010
    \      0x0002\r\n</PRE>"
  created: '2013-07-10 03:15:35'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "All that being said about the possible reasons InDesign does not embed the
    fonts, Microsofts' own Word 2011 embeds them all without problem (except that
    I had to enter \u534E\u6587\u4EFF\u5B8B to select STFangsong).\r\n\r\nCorrection:
    I see that I have to enter \u534E\u6587\u6977\u4F53 to get the Chinese characters
    in ST Kaiti. Putting the English name to select the font does not give access
    to the Chinese characters in Word; the other fonts fail the same way; I have not
    checked if selecting something other than the English name solves the problem
    for those other fonts."
  created: '2013-07-10 14:48:26'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "I had to deactivate the font SimSun in the folder /Library/Fonts/Microsoft;
    it was causing a name clash with Songti. Now I have that Word embeds all four
    Songti SC fonts, all three Kaiti SC fonts, using their English names, as well
    as STSong, STKaiti and STFangsong, but I had to use the Chinese name to get them.
    On the left is the name chosen in the fonts menu, on the right the Chinese (PRC)
    fullname written in that font, and the translation when the English name was giving
    problem\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ChineseFonts20130710_4526.png]\r\n\r\nThat
    is a grab of the pdf produced by Word 2011 for Macintosh. Here are the last three
    names for those that may need them for a copy-paste.\r\n\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp; \u534E\u6587\u5B8B\u4F53&nbsp;&nbsp;
    \ (STSong)\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp; \u534E\u6587\u4EFF\u5B8B&nbsp;&nbsp;  (STFangsong)\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;
    \u534E\u6587\u6977\u4F53&nbsp;&nbsp;  (STKaiti)"
  created: '2013-07-11 03:44:41'
date: '2009-07-06 21:23:58'
title: Embedding Chinese into a PDF

---
