---
author:
  name: dberlow
body: "So a lot of people can tell you the optimum line length for reading text is,
  63 to 72 characters. \r\n\r\nWe know this is not a 'fixed' number for all readers
  and all compositions, but is this a fixed value for all fonts? \r\n\r\nNo... clearly
  it refers only to text faces. \r\n\r\nWhat's a text face?\r\n\r\nGood question!
  Let's assume it is a face that is in a particular range, numerically, in its relationship
  between primary stem thickness, and alphabet length-to-cap height, (or l.c. ht.
  to alphabet length)\r\n\r\nNow, can one assume all faces fitting into that mathematical
  description of 'text' are good at 63-72 characters per line?\r\n\r\nPerhaps... but
  then what are the best line lengths for non-text faces, if there is such a length-per-design?
  \r\n\r\n<em>Is that one number of characters per line actually hiding a continuum
  waiting to be applied to all alphabets?</em>\r\n\r\nNow I'm tired of talking to
  myself, does anyone know of any studies, theories or ideas of their own? :-)\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "\r\nDo you know this one?\r\n\r\nDyson, M.C. and Haselgrove, M. (2001) 'The
    influence of reading speed and line length on the effectiveness of reading from
    screen.' International Journal of Human-Computer Studies, 54, 585\u2013612\r\n\r\nI
    don't know whether this answers your specific question, though.\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-16 13:47:07'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "Is there a link to that study, Tim? I'd like to read it.\r\n\r\nTo David:
    \r\nInteresting concept. I suspect that line length would be effected by all caps
    text. A line of Industria all caps of 70 characters is going to be much harder
    to read than one in Times. I suspect that leading can also extend the potential
    length of a line ... if you have additional leading equal to the typesize, as
    opposed to something set solid.\r\n\r\nUnfortunately, these are just guesses,
    and not substantiated by any studies (that I know of)."
  created: '2009-07-16 14:27:09'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I always assumed that when people talk about line lengths and text faces
    what they really mean is a non-condensed typeface in the 8 \u2013 12 point range.
    But I really think that rules like this are given because people like books that
    just give them easy to follow rules instead of telling them to actually think
    about the problem, create many potential solutions, test them, refine, repeat.
    It\u2019s just like those rules about not using transitional/modern type for text
    and never mixing sans faces. "
  created: '2009-07-16 15:00:43'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: 'David, the old rules for typewritten copy follow this too: if you leave about
    an inch for the page margins (A4), you will fit 63 pica or 76 elite characters,
    the rule of thumb used to be 66, I think. Whether this is a pragmatic coincidence
    or research-based number, I do not know. These rules and the number of lines (30
    double spaced) were meant to leave space for editors to write corrections, rather
    than anything to do with reading.'
  created: '2009-07-16 15:15:51'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>Is there a link to that study, Tim? I\u2019d like to read it.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes,
    <a href=\"http://www.psychology.nottingham.ac.uk/staff/mxh/Papers/Dyson%20&%20Haselgrove%20(2001).pdf\">here</a>,
    on <a href=\"http://www.psychology.nottingham.ac.uk/staff/mxh/\">Haselgrove's
    site</a>.\r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2009-07-16 15:19:37'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@ Boyer: How did you make it so that \"here\" link downloaded a PDF? Thank
    you. That's really handy.\r\n\r\n(Although next time, you might want to put (PDF)
    after a link like that. I thought it was a broken link so I just kept clicking.
    I now have 36 copies of Dyson & Haselgrove ;)"
  created: '2009-07-16 15:33:13'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "I was taught the optimal linewidth being 10 to 12 WORDS a line for books
    (lenghty texts). In Dutch the average word is 6-point-some characters. Adding
    a space after each word (sic)  results in 70 to 84 characters a line. Using this
    rule, linewidths would differ for each language, but I have a hunch that the presence
    of spaces in a line of text sets the pace for readers, which makes my version
    of the rule-of-thumb with words instead of characters making more sense. Or not?\r\n\r\n.
    . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-07-16 15:33:20'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I suspect that line length would be effected by all caps text.\r\nGood point.
    So a recommendation should be for mixed case or all-caps. And I also know size
    is a factor in some designs between text and display, particularly on the display
    side of 'text and display' of designs.\r\n\r\nAlso, I understand that there is
    a lot of information on text, and I know that 'external' factors like leading
    and margin are appropriate concerns when taking composition into account. And
    thanks for that, but I'm mostly interested here in what can be recommended based
    solely on the design of the font itself. . .\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-07-16 15:58:17'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite> I now have 36 copies of Dyson & Haselgrove</cite>\r\n\r\nSorry for
    that; next time I will say it is a pdf and give its size. \r\n\r\npdf files may
    be used as links the same way as html files. The format is \r\n\r\n<code>&lt;a
    href=&#x22;link&#x22;&gt;some text to click on&lt;/a&gt;</code>\r\n\r\nFor the
    link itself, I just right clicked on the link to the pdf in Haselgroves' page
    and pasted it between the double quotes.\r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2009-07-16 16:34:49'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> I now have 36 copies of Dyson & Haselgrove ;)\r\n\r\nGood for virtual wallpaper.
    A trick I use when a link appears to fail is to look at the status line in the
    browser, which does indicate that the file is a pdf. (Although there would be
    nothing wrong with a person putting a file identification after the link, if it
    is not HTML.)\r\n\r\nAnd thanks to Michel for the link. (I felt so lazy afterwards
    for not just Googling it.)"
  created: '2009-07-16 16:38:40'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>And thanks to Michel for the link. (I felt so lazy afterwards for not
    just Googling it.)</cite>\r\n\r\nWelcome. I did not expect to find it accessible
    to everyone though (I have access to that journal)."
  created: '2009-07-16 17:07:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Shortest # 1: Maurice Williams and the Zodiacs, \"Stay\", 1:37.\r\nLongest
    #1: Guns and Roses, \"November Rain\", 8:57.\r\nAverage #1 song length: 3:21. "
  created: '2009-07-16 17:18:27'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "Nick:\r\n\r\ndid you ever have a chance to be in the same room with Maurice
    Williams & the Zodiacs when they performed \"Stay\"? Absolutely riveting. I'll
    never forget it. When that's in my brain I cannot think about words or characters
    per line. \r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2009-07-16 18:51:45'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: "<cite> I now have 36 copies of Dyson & Haselgrove </cite>\r\n\r\nThat's why
    you should install <a href=\"http://www.pdfdownload.org/\">PDF Download</a>"
  created: '2009-07-16 21:30:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Will, the only "Stay" I know was by the Hollies, and I never heard them live.
  created: '2009-07-16 21:53:23'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>Shortest # 1: Maurice Williams and the Zodiacs, \u201CStay\u201D, 1:37.</cite>\r\n\r\nDoes
    anyone have statistics on books written in Chinese? "
  created: '2009-07-17 01:37:27'
- author:
    name: dishdesigner
    picture: 111471
  body: "Just to chime in back on the line length thoughts...\r\n\r\nI've often thought
    that it makes sense to think of the fundamental measurement unit of type as THE
    SACCADE instead of fixed measurements like pica. The reason is that the saccade
    is the fundamental unit of READING.\r\n\r\nAcademics have pretty much put to rest
    the debate about letterwise versus wordshape recognition, in favor of the composite
    \"parallel processing\" model. But, the saccade is still the primary unit of visual
    apprehension of type, regardless of how it is visually processed.\r\n\r\nNow,
    obviously, this isn't a precise measuring system in the sense that every reader's
    saccade is of different physical size, with more practiced and trained readers
    being able to acquire a larger saccade at higher speeds. But on the other hand,
    it is a very practical MINDSET since it: (1) orients the text designer to the
    service of reading rather than abstract & formalist aesthetics, (2) demands visual
    logic and reader testing to rule type decisions instead of math, (3) accounts
    for differences in setting various languages due to word lengths, (4) differentiates
    among text categories (dense hard sciences texts filled with formulas & numbers
    versus breezy magazine editorials) by bringing intended reading speed into the
    foreground of criteria.\r\n\r\nSo to get back to the line length questions, perhaps
    we shouldn't really ever worry or care about character counts per line as rules-of-thumb,
    but instead think in terms of how many saccades per line are appropriate for the
    text and reading experience in question. It's a reductive system, yes, but also
    quite practical and fast in terms of gut reaction to a text setting. The number
    of saccades taken per line is always a round whole number (your eye can't jump
    a fraction of a saccade...it either does or doesn't).\r\n\r\nAs a side note, I've
    often thought it would be an interesting experiment to design a typeface based
    on a standard workhorse that adds a small red dot just above the x-height on each
    line as \"fixation points\" for the intended saccades based on reading speed (kind
    of like a karaoke dot) for training / diagnostic testing purposes to the end of
    employing this kind of thinking among designers & students...."
  created: '2009-07-17 11:38:10'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: I think the fundamental unit of measurement should be comprehension. [[http://www.sr-research.com/|Eye
    tracking equipment]] can provide interesting correlational data, but measuring
    saccades/fixations doesn't really tell us anything about comprehension.
  created: '2009-07-17 17:26:06'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Measuring comprehension is going to fall outside the time and money budgets
    of most design projects. And comprehension is dependent on many factors outside
    of design. No amount of typesetting address the limits of readers vocabularies,
    make readers familiar with niche material, or make bad writing comprehensible.
    I think that many of the people who are typesetting advanced science, medical,
    technical and financial material lack the years of study and experience needed
    to comprehend the text, but it still has to be set by someone who knows how to
    set type.
  created: '2009-07-17 17:42:57'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">the saccade is still the primary unit of visual apprehension of type\r\n\r\n>I
    think the fundamental unit of measurement should be comprehension.\r\n\r\nThanks
    for the good avenues of thought. \r\n\r\nSince I'm out to help composers, who
    are trying to satisfy readers, only Alphabet Design is able to effect the rule-of-thumb
    parameterization of this value. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-07-18 12:35:13'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Are you asking about reading comprehension, or pleasure. And as I say this,
    I realize the two are not unrelated. That's a theory, of course. Moreover, I believe
    (more theory) that the content of the text also plays a role in optimum line length,
    for both ease of comprehension and aesthetics.\r\n\r\nAt some level, I come back
    to the notion that if all these things could be quantified, we could come up with
    a computer program to specify them. While eliminating a need for graphic designers
    is an intriguing notion -- with it's own pleasure component -- I suspect we're
    not going to get there.\r\n\r\nOn thing I have noticed: most texts will set better
    with some \"number of characters\" or equivalent value, and that value changes
    with the text. \r\n\r\nFor example, when we used TeX for book composition and
    I was designing, it was easy to change the type size, measure, spaceband values,
    whatever, and run the whole book. TeX could be set up to write off to a separate
    file the number of lines that did not fit within the values affecting the horizontal
    space you'd selected (overfull hbox). Of course, this includes spaceband values
    as well as measure and type size.\r\n\r\nGrep \"overfull\" in that file, pipe
    it to another file, and the number of lines in that file would be the number of
    lines which would not set within the given parameters. The whole deal took less
    than five minutes; changing a parameter, running the book, grepping the overfull
    hboxes & taking a look.\r\n\r\nHere is the interesting part: Within reason, the
    values that gave the best mechanical setting (fewest overfull hboxes) were usually
    the values that made the text the most comfortable to read. Nor was this always
    the smallest type/longest measure, given the obvious restriction that (1) you
    just wouldn't go larger or smaller than a certain type size, (or essentially the
    equivalent, longer/shorter than a certain measure), and (2) you shouldn't change
    the spaceband values much.\r\n\r\nWith these restrictions, the technique amounts
    to tweaking rather than designing per se, but it was interesting how often it
    proved useful, and for me, showed that the text itself is a factor in choosing
    certain parameters.\r\n\r\nSadly, AFAIK, you can't set up InDesign to give such
    a report; in effect, it always has \"emergency stretch\" turned on."
  created: '2009-07-18 13:47:04'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "\"grep\"?\r\n\r\nThat's a new term to me, Charles. Explain?\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2009-07-18 19:37:19'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Will, go to the command line and type \u201Cman grep\u201D."
  created: '2009-07-18 19:39:39'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Will, the only \u201CStay\u201D I know was by the Hollies, and I never
    heard them live.</em>\r\n\r\nIt's the same song, Nick. The Hollies were doing
    their cover of the Zodiacs. Jackson Browne also covered it on his <em>Running
    On Empty</em> album, with David Lindley hilariously doing a line in falsetto.
    (The liner notes read, \"The Zodiacs don't mind.\")"
  created: '2009-07-18 20:18:32'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "You're giving me a hard time, right Will?\r\n\r\ngrep:\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grep"
  created: '2009-07-18 22:11:48'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Charles said: At some level, I come back to the notion that if all these
    things could be quantified, we could come up with a computer program to specify
    them. While eliminating a need for graphic designers is an intriguing notion...\r\n\r\nI'm
    not talking about reading comprehension or pleasure. It's only hard if you try
    to say the value you give to a single parameter must \"design to a specific aesthetic\"
    of a display type, or to \"design to a specific comprehension level\" as a text
    type, much less design for a specific aesthetic as a text type, or the most obscure
    which is to design for a very particular comprehension in display type. \r\n\r\nThese
    things are beyond the scope of this, particularly when applied to web type. Because
    coming networked choices in font selection will be presenting uneducated users
    unfamiliar choices \"we\" already know answers to... taking the 'duh' out of some
    of some of graphic design, is what I'm asking. \r\n\r\nBut in the mean time, while
    you all were trying to read, I've done it. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-07-20 11:27:53'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "Charles:\r\n\r\nNope: I'm not giving you  hard time. I had indeed never heard
    the term before reading your post. I did look at the wikipedia article moments
    after I posted the query here. But I wanted you or someone else from the trade
    also to respond as a check against that source.\r\n\r\nBut now I now and thanks
    for expanding my vocabulary by another word. Even though it is one I'm not likely
    to use very often if ever.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2009-07-20 12:33:31'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "Nick:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o1Z_hskvz1M\r\n\r\nBut it is
    nothing like being 18 in 1964 and hearing them at a dance in a hall in North Carolina.
    They were really on that night.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2009-07-20 12:35:04'
- author:
    name: jveetee
    picture: 117664
  body: "Rules of thumb are just that \u2013 averages or typicals based on common
    assumptions.  Obviously, each font is going be read and comprehended in a unique
    way.  The practiced eye of an experienced and properly trained designer is the
    only mechanism that should be used to define characters per line in actual practice.
    \ Common sense trumps statistical studies every time.  \r\n\r\nJames Tocco \r\nDesigner,
    Detroit, Michigan USA"
  created: '2009-07-20 14:16:36'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "To what James Tocco wrote, I'd like to add this:\r\n\r\nExperience, training
    and common sense do more than trump statistical studies. They very often confirm
    statistical studies. As an apprentice compositor I was trained by blue-collar
    men and women who had never been in the same room with a statistical study of
    typography. Nor had they ever read any legibility/readability studies. They passed
    on two things to me: what they had learned from others like them, and what they
    had absorbed by working on book designs cooked up by masters of that craft. We
    talked about line length, leading, type size (nominal and visual), word space,
    and all the other factors noted above. I learned from them how to make simple
    layouts and set the type in metal. Many years later decided I could try to design
    books.\r\n\r\nIn the interim I read some of those reading studies (with my eyelids
    propped open by toothpicks and good shot of No-Doze). Virtually everything I read
    in those books I had learned on the shop floor. & had a lot more fun absorbing.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2009-07-20 14:35:59'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "Amusingly, the line length of the Dyson & Haselgrove article itself is, er,
    somewhat longer than that optimum... Wonder if anyone at the publisher noticed
    that?\r\n_______________________________________________\r\nEver since I chose
    to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2009-07-20 15:54:07'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "<<  Maurice Williams and the Zodiacs, \u201CStay\u201D, 1:37. >>\r\n\r\nSO:\r\nI've
    been on hold with the clinic, trying to make an appointment. & just what song
    is on the Muzak? Of course, \"Stay.\" What the hell else am I supposed to do,
    not stay? Hang up and call back for more perma-hold? \"STAY\" indeed.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2009-07-23 17:49:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Display uses and sizes bring other things in to play. The actual text--what
    it means, and all the stuff around it like images and graphics, can make us stop
    and ponder. A heading by its nature implies that continuous reading is not going
    to happen. \r\n\r\nMy untested theory would be that shorter lines that break the
    text at meaningful places read better that the usual text length.\r\nContent is
    more relevant here.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-07-23 21:10:19'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "For the fray: [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Visual_angle|Visual angle]]\u2026"
  created: '2009-07-23 22:24:46'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "David, I heard Bill Hill, recently of Microsoft, say at TypeCon a few years
    ago that the reason for the 2 1/2 alphabet maximum rule for single columns is
    that after that angle, the reader has to move his or her head, instead of just
    moving the eyes, and more easily loses place when dropping from line to line.
    \r\n\r\nIt seems that's Hill's own theory, to me plausible, based on eye physiology.
    There have been also some studies done at Reading, on line length.  "
  created: '2009-07-24 01:27:56'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Thanks Bill Bill. I changed the variable to 'text length', because it's much
    much clearer and I'm thus avoiding discussing it further in the presence of the
    statistically threatened.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-24 11:52:59'
date: '2009-07-16 12:07:43'
node_type: forum
title: line length

---
