---
author:
  name: evanbrog
  picture: 129873
body: "I've been a member of typophile for a couple of years now. I love the quality
  of the feedback, the willingness to help, the sense of community. It's a website
  that I trust.\r\n\r\nHowever, after a recent forum post for a logo I was creating,
  I was approached by my boss after our legal dept. contacted him. They were not happy,
  it seems, with me posting a forum discussion on our logo. As usually happens though,
  we got a better logo because of it. \r\n\r\nThey were afraid someone would steal
  the wording that we were using, and hoped to trademark. Maybe they also worried
  someone would steal the logo itself.\r\n\r\nI don't know too much about words themselves
  and how they are protected, I suppose it's possible for someone to decide to \"trademark\"
  a term before we get around to it. As far as the logo goes, it's copyrighted, always,
  as our own creative piece--or so my understanding has always been. Therefore the
  logo would be protected (though, I must admit if our terminology was stolen, the
  logo is useless).\r\n\r\nAs I said, I trust those on this website. The problem was
  that entering the terminology on Google lead to the first result being this thread
  (that's how legal found it). So...anyone out there could read the thread, and decide
  to try and steal my work.\r\n\r\nNow I feel this is all highly unlikely. BUT does
  anyone have any tips on how to keep using this site as a resource (as so many ppl
  do for identity projects), without risking the work/the terminology? \r\n\r\nWhat
  can I say to my employer? To our legal dept?\r\n\r\nIf there is a definite risk--Would
  ppl in our community be obliging if I asked them not to explicitly write out the
  words in question in their responses? For example, if I show the words next to the
  mark in a logo as a JPG, and ask that people refer to them as words, in general,
  not in specific (\"blue lantern fisheries\")--wouldn't that forum not show up on
  a google search? Would people mind? \r\n\r\nBut what if someone did write out \"blue
  lantern fisheries\"--telling me it should be centered, or rag right--and now google
  hits this thread, and I get in trouble.\r\n\r\nSo you see the problem, there must
  be a way to be protected without having to annoy people by telling them how to frame
  their responses. Or maybe their isn't.\r\n\r\nCould anyone offer me some advice,
  share experiences, etc?"
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "If you don\u2019t want any person on Earth to see what you do, don\u2019t
    post it on the internet. Not under a fake name, not on private forums, not at
    all. "
  created: '2009-07-17 17:02:38'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: Perhaps you should use gibberish words in place of the real thing, I think
    that's been done before.
  created: '2009-07-17 17:13:28'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: "Your profile identifies you as a freelance designer. When you refer to your
    boss, do you mean a client?\r\nIf you're a full-time employee of a company, you
    may have signed an intellectual property agreement when you were hired, making
    anything you create in the course of your 9-to-5 job effectively a work for hire.
    This may not be fair, but if you signed one of those, your best course of action
    is to tell your boss, <em>Oops, my bad. It won't happen again.</em>\r\nIf this
    is a logo you're designing for a freelance client, your contract with them may
    have some non-disclosure clause in it, in which case the <em>my-bad</em> approach
    is advisable. \r\nIn either case, point out that you acted in good faith with
    the goal of getting the best outcome for your client/employer, and with no intent
    whatsoever to harm or deceive them. \r\nIt's an unfortunate fact of life that
    businesses base their rules on worst-case scenarios, and therefore eliminate many
    valuable opportunities because they have a minuscule but real risk attached to
    them. You are in the awkward position of someone who might have to choose between
    being <em>right</em> and being <em>employed</em>. "
  created: '2009-07-17 17:30:29'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> if I show the words next to the mark in a logo as a JPG, and ask that people
    refer to them as words, in general, not in specific\r\n\r\nYou could ask, but
    there would still be a chance of someone missing that, or it being posted several
    days after your request. Your best bet would be to do as mili says, and use fake
    text, which could even be something badly misspelled. (Although there are some
    type As around here would see that as a challenge to correct they spelling and
    defeating your purpose.) :)\r\n\r\n> What can I say to my employer? To our legal
    dept\r\n\r\n\"Sorry\" is the the best response I can think of. Tell the legal
    dept to hustle on registering the mark, now that it is out on the web."
  created: '2009-07-17 17:31:02'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Tracking.
  created: '2009-07-17 17:35:23'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: What Messrs. Mojo and McCahill said.
  created: '2009-07-17 17:55:32'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: "Mojo, I've forgotten all about my account settings on here--i'll have to
    change that. i am employed as of a few weeks ago(non-freelance).\r\n\r\nluckily,
    my boss applauded the effort, and i think is happy that we got a better product.
    but, it's his responsibility to tell me i did wrong.\r\n\r\nso with that type
    of person, maybe i can convince him to allow me to use this site when i need criticism.
    \r\n\r\nusing alternate words sounds like a good idea, i'll do that. sounds like
    an challenge--explaining concepts and how they pertain to a logo that doesn't
    use the real wording--which should make the whole post, firstly, non-searchable,
    and secondly, obviously, the terminology will not be at risk.\r\n\r\nthe logos
    aren't in jeopardy, though, correct? if someone uses something of mine that i
    posted on here, i can prove that i had first use by virtue of the time-stamp. "
  created: '2009-07-17 18:21:50'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> the logos aren\u2019t in jeopardy, though, correct\r\n\r\nWell, they can
    be stolen. Even though you have proof that you produced them first, it would be
    a major, expensive hassle to get the exclusive rights to them. \r\n\r\nBut I can't
    think of a way to ensure that they can be protected, and allow others in the group
    to comment on them.\r\n\r\nI'm glad your boss is being sensible about this. The
    fact is, there is little chance that either the logo or the wording could have
    been stolen. What probably happened is that the lawyers were searching the net
    to see if the wording was unique. They typed it into Google, and surprise, they
    found your message.\r\n\r\nBut in reality, a person looking to steal a good slogan
    would not be able to do this, because they wouldn't have known what to search
    for. The image, which is even harder to search for, would be even harder to steal,
    based solely on its appearance here."
  created: '2009-07-17 19:59:20'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "I've never heard of anyone \"stealing\" work from others on Typophile, though
    I can imagine plenty of people are inspired and perhaps borrow ideas seen here
    (This does not include any instances of ripped-off intellectual property in the
    greater type design community). \r\n\r\nThe majority of our users are honest and
    respectful people, but this is the world wide web. Anyone and everyone has access,
    so really, there is no guarantee that your work is safe from copy-cats. (I should
    also mention that legally, Typophile cannot be held responsible in this case).\r\n\r\nPosting
    client work should always be done with great discretion and yes, Google loves
    Typophile, so chances are your posts here will get on the first page of any search
    result. There have been dozens of situations where a designer's client has contacted
    us to remove content - usually from the logo/identity critique section. We have
    also been contacted by legal departments on a few occasions. I've seen it get
    ugly and I've also seen people lose their jobs.\r\n\r\nIt has already been said
    here, but I recommend removing any proper names associated with the business.
    Remove it from the threads text and remove it from the file name."
  created: '2009-07-17 20:03:33'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "In my book there is no way anyone can steal something that has been published
    and get away with it. If you described a wordmark or logo on a public forum that
    counts as publishing and is therefore protected by copyright. In case someone
    would steal the idea and trademark it (or any other way of registration), you
    can prove previous use and win litigation.\r\nEspecially with a lot of Typophiles
    as witnesses : )\r\n\r\nWhat your legal dept. is afraid of is the cost of litigation
    and the possibility of getting some dumbass judge who doesn\u2019t get it, resulting
    in years of drawn out and expensive court cases. But that\u2019s the American
    Way, I guess (highest ratio of lawyers to general pop., right?)\u2026\r\n\r\nA
    historic event comes to mind, where a Brazilian trademark was established for
    the wordmark \u2018Coke\u2019 by an outsider (because the C-C people kinda forgot
    to get there first) and that guy had to be bought of for a couple of mil.\r\n\r\n
    . . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-07-17 20:34:01'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: I'd always assumed that Bert's argument stands...if I publish something publicly
    here it'd be hard for someone else to claim copyright, no?
  created: '2009-07-17 21:43:13'
- author:
    name: Matt Steel
    picture: 114830
  body: "I think it's unlikely that people will steal as long as you only post jpegs.
    I once posted a PDF of a logo in progress on another design forum, and someone
    directly stole a \"k\" from my totally-drawn-from-scratch logo. I know this only
    because he asked for a critique on his own studio logo a month or two later, and
    I recognized the very unique \"k\" I had drawn. Thankfully he was cool about it
    when I confronted him, and he changed his logo sufficiently. So: lesson learned,
    don't post PDFs.\r\n\r\nI can't add anything to what others have suggested about
    how to approach your boss and the legal dep't, except to stress the fact that
    you never know who might be watching. \r\n\r\nI once posted in another design
    forum about my unhappiness with the pay at a former job. I didn't mention the
    name of the firm I worked for; I didn't even say anything bad about them. I only
    mentioned that with a new baby, my wife and I needed more income than I was getting,
    and that the salary freeze we'd all been subject to was putting a financial strain
    on me. All I wanted was input from the people who knew me on the aforementioned
    forum, regarding whether they thought I was ready to make the move to self-employment
    or if I should stay put.\r\n\r\nMy former boss somehow found me on there, not
    sure how because she doesn't exactly hang out on design forums. She didn't fire
    me per se, but she did give me 2 hours notice with a couple months worth of severance.
    She said she was \"going to tell people the decision is mutual, and is giving
    me the wings I needed to start my own studio\" (read: I've realized you're not
    loyal to me anymore, and I can't stand the idea of having someone on staff who's
    looking to make a move). Moral of the story: just don't broadcast what goes on
    at work... that is unless it's been months since you've left and are now happily,
    gainfully self-employed and couldn't care less about whether said former employer
    is still stalking you or not.\r\n\r\n;)"
  created: '2009-07-17 22:21:12'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: For logo concepts and branding in general, it's good to remember that copyright
    does not protect ideas, copyright only protects the artwork itself. Registering
    designs and trademarks can protect any aspect of the brand but that has to be
    done officially, and it takes time and money too. Best to keep confidential projects
    close to your chest, even if you did not sign any non-disclosure agreements.
  created: '2009-07-18 00:40:38'
- author:
    name: FrankSmith
    picture: 113578
  body: 'With logos, it might help a little if one puts a TM on everything from the
    start.  It''s a good habit, even though the client should investigate registering
    it.  '
  created: '2009-07-18 06:31:22'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: 'A point to note: While this site is a great resource, and we all like helping,
    and extra eyes are always a good thing... you shouldn''t think of it as something
    you <em>need</em> in order to do the job you''re being paid for. If confidentiality
    restraints mean that you unfortunately have to design something all by yourself
    without showing it to the internet, then do it, if you''re a designer.'
  created: '2009-07-18 11:46:20'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "I've only posted one logo on Typophile (<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/5414\">here</a>,
    with the permission of the client), though I've commented on many. I have no experience
    with stolen work from Typophile, but if you're working with pre-copyright/pre-trademarked
    stuff you shouldn't put it on the web. Period. Sounds to me like you want the
    quality critique you get here (most of the time), but are running up against very
    real client constraints. I don't know if you're on sound legal ground or not,
    but I have to imagine it is more trouble than it's worth.\r\n\r\nIn the end, you
    have to bow to their needs or you risk creating a huge problem for both you and
    them. Again, I suggest you ask them to file the appropriate legal docs before
    you post here. Also you should notify them that you plan to expose the development
    of their logo/ tagline/ identity freely online. I bet many of them would not want
    the process work up online and would be angry that you did, legal issues aside.
    Additionally, you have the risk of someone seeing your work get critiqued on the
    web. If a potential client don't understand the design process, they may perceive
    the thread as showing that your work isn't good, or the client whose logo it is
    may believe that you didn't show them all the options.\r\n\r\nI think Typophile
    is a great resource for logo input, but I don't think it's always the right choice,
    given its completely open nature."
  created: '2009-07-20 16:40:27'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> With logos, it might help a little if one puts a TM on everything from
    the start.\r\n\r\nCan you do that? I thought that symbol was only for registered
    copyrights. I know you can put the (c) mark on anything, but as some else said,
    that is because copyright is automatic as soon as something is published (in many
    countries).\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-20 19:00:44'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: "I'm glad to see this discussion is growing. It's very helpful to me (and
    many others I imagine) as to how to approach the business and all it's nuances.
    \r\n\r\nAs a designer I dont require outside critique, but when it comes to identity
    work, sometimes I get stuck--and other minds and opinions usually help. In all
    other areas, I dont post examples online. Yet, the nature of identity work does
    indeed make it a very touchy, very risky subject in this case.\r\n\r\nIf I have
    to do any other logos for this company I will be sure have a discussion as to
    the potential risks and benefits involved (thank you for enumerating them), and
    whether any of the prescribed treatments (such as using nonsense words) would
    make this a viable option.\r\n\r\nTM--my company has used it before actually registering
    a phrase/motto, as an instance of intent to register.\r\n\r\nAs far as \"can you,\"
    I'm not sure if that is the correct thing to do or not--it doesn't seem like that
    practice would be illegal....and hopefully would be a deterrent from stealing."
  created: '2009-07-20 19:42:07'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: 'Don: The circled R is for registered trademarks. TM, in turn, is for unregistered
    trademarks, and is pretty much just an expression of intent to defend something
    as a trademark. Companies often stick it on common words and phrases as a deterrent,
    even when they know that there are low odds of such an ownership being upheld
    in court if it came to that.'
  created: '2009-07-20 23:42:05'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "I'll go with Cerulean and others here: I'd rather send a 'work in progress'
    logo I'm feeling stuck on with friends of mine on private emails, and for sure
    not be foolish enough to post it on the Internet - that actually seems insane,
    and I think you are lucky not to have been fired. Also, as it has been written
    elsewhere, it definitely makes you look like an incompetent designer who needs
    input from others in order to have a good logo. Well at least, that's what I would
    think of you if I was your boss and I came across a thread like this - and by
    the way, I hope you realize that your legal dept. and boss are very much probably
    still reading this thread.\r\n\r\nIn my opinion there is only ONE rule: do not
    post anything as long as the product is not out on the market. Even if it has
    been protected in terms of copyrights (name, visual, etc), it may destroy strategic
    efforts deployed to launch a brand or a concept, by showing it too early. What
    you did is a HUGE mistake, and you better try not to do it again, ever. I know
    it, because I did almost the same mistake some years ago, at a time I was not
    completely aware of the power of Internet; I posted a finished job on my portfolio,
    not even a forum, and it was not even accessible without knowing the proper address.
    Unfortunately, Google found it, and this product was not yet out on the market.
    The customer was spending $$$ to prepare its launch. It is my only mistake of
    this kind so far, but it is one I learned a great deal from.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2009-07-21 09:07:53'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: "I dont believe my employer would be upset to find me trying to learn more
    about the legalities of my business. I'm not trying to prove that what I did was
    right--that's defined by the employer, obviously. So I was wrong. I'm just trying
    to see all the angles--for MY future as a designer, regardless of where or for
    whom I'm working for--these are things I ought to know.\r\n\r\nYou guys are absolutely
    right that seeing the process in a forum, to a non designer, may make very well
    make us look incompetent. \r\n\r\nVery interesting example about google finding
    a needle in a haystack! That's pretty scary."
  created: '2009-07-21 13:27:08'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > The circled R is for registered trademarks. TM, in turn, is for
    unregistered trademarks</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd, for clarity, let me add to Cerulean's
    concise explanation that Trademark is a different category of intellectual property
    protection than Copyright. (And Trademark is indeed the more generally applicable
    one in the case of logos and wordmarks.)"
  created: '2009-07-21 17:09:07'
date: '2009-07-17 16:58:18'
node_type: forum
title: Stealing From Typophile

---
