---
author:
  name: agisaak
  picture: 115092
body: "The attached sample is of a typeface that has somehow evolved out of my efforts
  to learn OpenType feature coding and which didn't begin with any serious goal of
  creating a complete font (especially given that I really have no artistic or typographic
  background as I fear is probably reflected in this sample). Now that I have a complete
  alphabet, though, I find myself wondering whether it might be worth expanding this
  into a full character set. Unfortunately, I'm not the most objective critic, so
  I was hoping for some feedback. I'm worried that the uppercase is slightly too heavy
  for the lowercase and may need to be redrawn.\r\n\r\nAny feedback would be appreciated.\r\n\r\nTIA,\r\nAndr\xE9"
comments:
- author:
    name: anhng
  body: "I agree with you that the uppercase is heavy compare to lowercase. I can
    read the alphabet lines, but couldn't read the paragraph because the letter are
    intertwine with each other, look like Thai script/ language. Or some kind of scifi
    out of space language in a movie. I think this is a fun experimental typeface
    to explore more.\r\n\r\nYou said you didn't begin with any serious goal of creating
    this typeface, do you have any goal now? I'm just curious. If you create another
    typeface, what would you do differently based on what you have learned? (My instructors
    asked me that all the time?)"
  created: '2009-07-28 21:08:05'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "responding to anhng\r\n\r\nlegibiility wasn't really a goal, but perhaps
    next time I should choose a sample in English rather than gibberish since context
    is important here.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure how to answer your questions. I'm not a
    designer, simply someone interested in the more technical details of fonts, and
    had originally created glyphs as little more than placeholders to allow me to
    explore a variety of opentype coding issues (hence the very uniform and simple
    geometric forms). However, I liked the effect created by the uniform internal
    spacing created by the letters I had, so I completed the alphabet. It actually
    works better IMHO for the condensed version, but I didn't post a sample of that
    since I'm still working on the glyph variants and calt code necessary to create
    the intertwining. I'll likely post a sample of that, though, in the next few weeks.\r\n\r\nIf
    I were to create another typeface, I'd want to spend more time trying to conceptualise
    what I wanted from the overall alphabet before I started actually drawing glyphs.
    When I did opt to complete the basic alphabet here, I had to rethink lots of things
    to get the glyphs to work together. I'm not really sure though if that is what
    you are asking.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2009-08-01 15:48:44'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: Really interesting effect. While there are plenty of techno/futuristic typefaces
    out there, the exploitation of the power of Open Type give yours a edge that I
    think could be appreciated by designers.
  created: '2009-08-01 16:20:15'
- author:
    name: anhng
  body: You are now a certified designer agisaak (hehehhe), because you're learning
    an understanding the technical aspect of creating letters. If you have a concept
    and know what you want it's more easy to focus, instead of wandering around (it
    could be fun sometimes). I think it's worth expanding into complete font, on the
    way you will learn a lot of thing and know what to do for the next typeface.
  created: '2009-08-01 23:55:03'
- author:
    name: DizajnDesign
    picture: 113344
  body: "Hi Andr\xE9.\r\nI am looking at your typeface, and even the shapes are not
    so original, the opentype features make's it quite worth to have it finished.
    So if you have plenty of free time, just continue :)\r\n\r\nOnly some comments:\r\n\"lover\"case:
    looks nearly finished. the small caps forms of f, g and q are bothering me a little.
    You can keep these as backup and try some true lowercase variants.\r\nlook at
    k and x, maybe there is a way to make them fit the rest of letters better. maybe
    disconnect the shapes?\r\n\r\nuppercase: i only like the normal version (i am
    not sure if the alt version makes much sense with this typeface, because it makes
    the typeface a little boring). So i recommend you to work much more with the upper
    row. You can try to use the same principle as in the lowercase and look at the
    letters like B, D and try to disconnect them. K and X fits here more than in lowercase.
    Work also on R, probably the version from the second row will be more clear. But
    anyway, lowercase looks much more complete than uppercase, so you can play more
    to make the uppercase some sort of mixed upper-lowercase.\r\n\r\nligatures - are
    quite hard to read, but i dont like some of \"a with something\" ligatures.\r\n\r\nGood
    luck.\r\n\r\nJano"
  created: '2009-08-08 22:16:27'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "As mentioned earlier, I'd been working on a condensed version as well. The
    connections are still under construction, but I thought I'd post the basic alphabet
    here. There's also some preliminary cyrillic glyphs shown. The mixed-case forms
    don't translate well to cyrillic, but I thought I might be able to create a similar
    effect by using cursive letterforms, but I'm not sure if that works for a sans
    serif -- feedback from anyone more familiar with Russian than I (which means pretty
    much anyone) would be appreciated.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AGIByzCndSmp_5141.gif]\r\n\r\nJano:
    I appreciate your comments and suggestions. I will definitely consider them. The
    upper-row 'majuscules' were intended as the basic uppercase -- the second one
    is available as a stylistic alternate. I agree that R in particular needs some
    work.\r\n\r\nTIA\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2009-08-09 20:50:27'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "Here's a revised uppercase (only B, D, and R have been changed)\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AGIByzCndRevBDR_4802.gif]"
  created: '2009-08-10 19:03:28'
- author:
    name: johnnydib
    picture: 116018
  body: "I like the overall colour, the negative space created between and within
    the letters is pretty nice.\r\nLet's see some numerals.\r\nObviously one big concern
    is legibility, I'd say since you're exploring the possibilities of open type,
    give the user a conventional legible alternate just in case they need it for setting
    certain words that would otherwise be too ambiguous. My first suggestion is the
    J to look something like the L.\r\nThe uppercase G in the second line in the previous
    post, I don't like that, I get the point that it lines up with the S and the Z
    but otherwise it doesn't look like a G.\r\nBut I like that typeface. So you have
    some good language support there, just add Greek and Arabic (Arabic: that's some
    coding isn't it?)\r\nOh and I just realized how this typeface is crying for a
    Hebrew companion, that squarish look!"
  created: '2009-08-12 04:42:47'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "Here's a slightly revised sample which includes some figures for Johnny Dib.\r\n\r\nThe
    first line is the regular uppercase, whereas the second is intended as a 'legibility
    alternate'. I've also shown a few alternates at the end. The alternate capital
    F, R, Z and lowercase z and possibly g and q will probably become the 'standard
    forms'. The others I'm still thinking of as alternates.\r\n\r\nI may end up ditching
    the oldstyle figures and just keep the small figures since I don't think they're
    really appropriate for this sort of face.\r\n\r\nAs for Greek, Arabic, and Hebew,
    I think I work on the basic roman before introducing new scripts... I did play
    with greek for awhile but had problems visualising a decent lowercase.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AGIByzNumerals_4210.gif]"
  created: '2009-08-13 11:08:17'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "In general I'm no fan of this style, but I must say this is really great!
    I wouldn't be too concerned about legibility, I think what is really interesting
    here is the texture your typeface weaves, especially with the OpenType tricks
    turned on. This gives an almost textura-like quality, which I have never seen
    in such a typeface. The internal white space-pattern in the text-setting is a
    thing of great beauty.  \r\n\r\nI guess the basic idea is the same as with textura,
    few but very distinct shapes repeated and combined, with the white even more important
    than the black. \r\n\r\nYour typeface immediately reminded me of the famous blackletter
    calligraphy of Rudolf Koch: \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Koch_MEvang_6419.jpg]\r\n\r\n(Sorry
    for the small image, couldn't find anything larger online.)\r\n\r\nI don't have
    time for a detailed critique now, but I'll get back to this. Keep up the excellent
    work!"
  created: '2009-08-13 14:34:41'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "Jano had complained about the lowercase x and k and suggested opening them
    up like the b and d. I don't like the results of a pure 'stenciled' form like
    the second example below, but what about the third form? I think it works much
    better than the original form. Do others agree?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AGIByzAxle_4826.gif]\r\n\r\nFor
    some reason, though, this doesn't seem to work as well for the k (at least to
    me, but I'm starting to lose objectivity)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AGIByzTake_3722.gif]\r\n\r\nAlso,
    I'm wondering whether maintaining the original uppercase (which Jano felt worked
    better) still makes sense, or if it should adjusted to match\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AGIByzAxleUC_5133.gif]\r\n\r\nI've
    been working on the connected forms a bit -- still nowhere near complete (anhung
    had asked at the beginning of this thread what I had learned from this -- answer:
    if you're creating lots of connected forms don't go overboard with the diacritics.
    At least I never had the masochistic urge to add Vi\u1EC7tnamese), but I thought
    I'd give an example here. It also I think shows that having multiple different
    forms of the letters, including the more boring standard uppercase ones, leads
    to a fair amount of flexibility.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AGIByzAffable_6387.gif]\r\n\r\nAs
    always, feedback is most welcome and appreciated.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2009-08-16 04:55:57'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "What's in a name?\r\n\r\nI'd started off with the working title of 'Byzantium'
    because the patterns formed by the negative space reminded me somewhat of a maze
    (I hadn't thought of the textura analogy which Sindre raised, though I quite like
    it -- the negative space was very much focal for me). However, I'm starting to
    rather dislike that name since the letterforms themselves clearly bear no relation
    to anything Byzantine. I'd thinking of 'Miasma' as an alternative. But I'll probably
    come to dislike that as well...\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2009-08-16 05:02:39'
- author:
    name: anhng
  body: "It's interesting that today, as we know that it is digital age, media everywhere
    and all that. When people read something, they want to get the information right
    out of it right away and don't pay any attention to the typeface. If they do,
    they'll expect it to look legible and look kool. If they can't read it or not
    appealing, they'll close the window.\r\n\r\nAnyway, there is a chinese artist,
    Xu Bing. In 1994, he did a project re-inventing roman letter with chinese aesthetic
    and written in english, all the letter are intertwine to each other. Below is
    the link to his project.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.xubing.com/index.php/site/projects/year/1994/square_calligraphy_classroom\">Xu
    Bing/ Square Calligraphy Classroom</a>\r\n\r\nAt first, nobody can read it, but
    if you pay more attention to little detail, form, and understand the system, you'll
    understand it, it's very beautiful.\r\n\r\nWell, this is more about fine art academic
    work, not commercial marketing base work. It is maybe something for you to consider
    to, either academic fine art or popular commercial marketing design. \r\n\r\nAnother
    thing, as far as the legibility concern, i can't read the word \"LAZY DOG\" and
    \"AXLE\""
  created: '2009-08-17 22:02:04'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "I've been working on my OpenType features and now have a more complete set
    of connecting forms, though the algorithm still has some kinks that need to be
    worked out. While this face isn't really designed for long texts, I've provided
    several samples below simply because they are more illustrative than a few words
    in isolation (and also are more useful for finding those kinks...).\r\n\r\nThe
    following is a passage from Jules verne. The sample below is a reference sample
    without any OpenType goodies active:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AGILabyVerne_5814.gif]\r\n\r\nThe
    two samples below are the same passage using the OpenType features. The first
    is exactly what the font itself generates, whereas the second has undergone a
    bit of manual tweaking, especially wrt lowercase 'r' which needs some rethinking.
    Lowercase <em> i </em> and <em> l </em> are also causing me massive headaches
    because they have the annoying properties of having a left vertical stem and a
    right vertical stem which are the <em> same </em> stem, and this keeps introducing
    interesting bugs into my features.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AGILabyVerne2_6063.gif]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AGILabyVerne3_5476.gif]\r\n\r\nSome
    of the forms illustrated here will probably be removed from the final font since
    they don't work very well, but I won't say which since I'm hoping others will
    be able to offer some unbiased opinions on which connections work well and which
    are truly heinous.\r\n\r\nI've also included the Verne text in French, along with
    a passage from Karel \u010Capek to illustrate some diacritics (since Czech would
    be Greek to me were it not written in the Latin script, the \u010Capek passage
    was chosen completely at random and may be something incredibly dull). -- there's
    some spacing issues with the ha\u010Dek which I am aware of.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AGILabyVerneFr_3996.gif]\r\n\r\nFinally,
    I created a Q-variant which sits directly on the baseline rather than descending
    below it to allow for very tight all-caps settings which preserve the texture
    of the face vertically as well as horizontally, but I'm not sure if this alternate
    works very well.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AGILabyCapsSetting_6178.gif]\r\n\r\nFeedback
    appreciated,\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2009-08-27 02:08:13'
- author:
    name: anhng
  body: "Surprisingly, I can read the English version, when OpenType isn't active,
    then it get harder to read with some of the word because letter are intertwine
    to each other.\r\n\r\nI like this typeface because it seem relate to some of other
    culture, like Thai script, Arabic, some of it look like Korean script. I think
    as far as the legibility, you should print it out, giving out to other ppl, ask
    them to read, and see what they'll say. Or ask little kid to read it, might be
    a fun experience. It might be great if you can find and asked a Thai, Korean,
    or Arabic people, they might give you some interest idea or inspiration."
  created: '2009-08-27 10:05:04'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: Any development on this?
  created: '2010-02-01 14:47:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I just saw this. (Thanks, Sindre.)\r\nAndr\xE9, this is awesome - please
    do finish it!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-01 17:45:24'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: Awesome indeed. The world needs this typeface. And I want it.
  created: '2010-02-01 19:08:49'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I was skimming through this thread and when I saw Anh's comment about some
    of this looks like Korean, I was puzzled. But then I saw:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/inging_3586.gif]\r\n\r\nThat's
    \uC789 in Korean! But I have no idea what it's supposed to represent originally,
    although I can tell the surrounding text is in French."
  created: '2010-02-01 20:59:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ampersand?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-01 21:03:45'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: It's also what my face looks like when trying to read this font! ;-)
  created: '2010-02-02 13:47:25'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: Wow, very interesting project. Obviously legibility is a concern, but since
    that is not the important aspect of this project, I suppose I could call this
    a thorough success. I've never seen such use of OpenType before. I also find it
    interesting that you have no background as a designer, yet you've designed a typeface
    that seems to fascinate full-fledges typographers. Great work here.
  created: '2010-02-12 10:32:01'
- author:
    name: Bernard B
    picture: 119257
  body: "The funny thing is that when I looked at this topic for the 1st time, I closed
    the window as soon as I saw the first preview, I tought \"d\xE9j\xE0-vu\".\r\n\r\nBut
    I've been a little further today, and then I looked at a whole paragraph, and
    I love it, it makes a very nice combination of lines.\r\n\r\nBut I think ligatures
    on the last preview (Mme de Villars) makes it really too hard to read, It took
    me maybe 2 minutes to read.\r\n\r\nAlso, maybe it's because of my quite poor english,
    but I was really surprised by the difference of time needed to read between english
    & french."
  created: '2010-02-23 02:42:19'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "Sindre writes:\r\n\r\n<cite> Any development on this? </cite>\r\n\r\nI'd
    taken a bit of a hiatus from this project and didn't even realise that this thread
    had continued. However, I am getting back into the swing of things and hope to
    post some additional samples at some point in the near future.\r\n\r\n@Jongseong:\r\n\r\nThe
    'Hangul' <em> ing </em> (I think that's what that syllable that would be) was
    in fact an ampersand."
  created: '2010-02-23 20:38:02'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: Great! Looking forward to it. By the way, I agree that "Byzantium" might not
    be a very suitable name for this typeface. "Miasma" sure sounds great, and while
    that word's connotations are largely negative, there's a very suitable mysterious
    ring to it.
  created: '2010-02-23 23:03:15'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "For a variety of reasons I took some time off from this, but I'm trying to
    get back into the swing of things now. One major problem I was facing earlier
    was that I wasn't really thinking ahead when I developed the earlier version and
    had rather foolishly added fairly comprehensive international support before I'd
    actually finalized the basic letterforms and the calt routine. The result: changes
    to the calt routine were both time consuming and error-prone since because of
    the large number of glyphs in all of the classes which I'm using. Adding and removing
    glyphs from classes would often result in classes with the wrong number of members,
    or with members which were misaligned, and tracking down these problems was becoming
    rather time consuming (plus the fact that FontLab's error-reporting isn't usually
    very informative wasn't making things any easier).\r\n\r\nI've created a new version
    without any accented characters and want to focus on just getting the basic algorithm
    down before adding the accented characters back.\r\n\r\nI've uploaded a new .pdf
    file which contains some samples (the text is the first paragraph of Alice in
    Wonderland which contains all 26 letters). Note that this is still very much a
    rough draft. The connected samples represent the 'raw' output of my current joining
    algorithm, and there are many joins which are somewhat ugly as things stand.\r\n\r\nMy
    current goal is to come up with a general algorithm which produces as few problematic
    forms as possible before I start adding code to deal with specific exceptions
    (I suspect there will be quite a few of these even once I finalize the basic algorithm,
    but hopefully I can arrive at an algorithm which minimizes the number of special
    cases needed).\r\n\r\nThe new font includes both the interleaving joins found
    in the previous version, as well as more 'script-like' connections. I'm not 100%
    sure how well the latter work though, and would appreciate feedback. It clearly
    needs refinement, but that refinement is only worth the effort if it actually
    'fits', so to speak.\r\n\r\nCurrently, I think that there are far more problems
    with the lowercase joins than the uppercase ones. There are quite a few lowercase
    joins which I am not comfortable with. I'm curious to see if people here dislike
    the same one that I do.\r\n\r\nI'm also rethinking what the basic uppercase should
    be -- Currently, the font has a 'biform' uppercase with a more standard majuscule
    one available as a titling alternate. I think the biform works well in all-caps
    settings, but less well in mixed-case settings. I'm debating between two options
    here: (i) simply swap the two sets of caps so the biform becomes the titling form,
    or (ii) make the biforms accessible via the 'case' feature so it becomes the default
    in all-caps settings, and then using the 'titl' feature to restore the standard
    majuscules, but only in all-caps settings.\r\n\r\nTIA,\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2010-03-16 20:38:10'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "Just a quick addendum to my previous post:\r\n\r\nI've illustrated three
    different connection algorithms here. The one I've labelled 'Connected III' is
    intended to be a stylistic alternate. I'm debating between 'Connected I' and 'Connected
    II' as the basic 'calt' algorithm. The other will likely also end up as a stylistic
    alternate.\r\n\r\nConnected I favours interleaving joins over fully connected
    ones.\r\nConnected II favours fully connected joins over interleaving ones.\r\nConnected
    III favours interleaving in the opposite direction from Connected I.\r\n\r\nThere's
    also a stylistic set which allows one to 'tweak' the results by mapping numerals
    onto non-printing 'joining directives'. I haven't used this, though, to correct
    any problematic cases in the attached .pdf.\r\n\r\nThe reason I'm using full paragraphs
    to illustrate something which clearly isn't intended for text is simply because
    it illustrates a greater number of character combinations than a single word or
    pangram does. Also, picking new random passages for different test runs makes
    it more likely that I'll be able to identify the problematic cases."
  created: '2010-03-16 20:48:39'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "I've been working on superiors to use in fractions etc. I was wondering if
    anyone has opinions on the optical correctness of the two versions below. I don't
    have a good eye for such things.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Numerals2010MR16_6222.jpg]\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2010-03-16 21:12:39'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "In working on the joining behaviour, I wanted to allow the lower bar of letters
    like 'E' to join to the character to the right, but I didn't want to simply extend
    the bar out horizontally since that would create huge amounts of whitespace which
    would destroy the overall texture of the font. I've opted instead to lower the
    center bar. In the image below, the second example shows what the font would previously
    produce, and the third example shows the new joining 'E'.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AGIBeadTest_4199.jpg]\r\n\r\nI'm
    wondering whether this 'E' looks OK, and how acceptable it is to have the joining
    form make such a major departure from the basic 'E' form. One option would be
    to make available a similar unjoined E as a stylistic alternate, but if I do that
    I'd probably need to add similar variants for A, \xC6, B, H, K, \u0152, R, X and
    possibly P, S, Y and Z. I'm a bit reluctant to add so many new alternates (along
    with their corresponding joining forms -- and some of these characters require
    a substantial number of those) unless this actually looks reasonable.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2010-03-24 10:03:52'
- author:
    name: johnnydib
    picture: 116018
  body: "I like the last E. Don't bother with too many variants, all the letters don't
    necessarily have to have similar alternates, and all the combinations don't necessarily
    have to exist. And if you can avoid a bit of coding it's better.\r\nAfter all
    this typeface has a concept that paves the way for endless derivative work. You've
    made it so easy for a designer to expand the outline and create custom titles,
    headings and logos that any extra Open Type features are really extras.\r\nAnd
    for text setting the texture in the PDF looks really good everywhere. And page
    5 of the PDF has some particularly useful variants, I can think of pull quotes
    or captions set in these fonts.\r\n\r\nI think everyone here loved the idea behind
    this, you figure out the last bits of execution on this but don't go crazy either
    :P\r\n\r\nAnd yeah Byzantium is a great name release it before someone else takes
    the name :D"
  created: '2010-04-25 20:36:10'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "Thanks for the feedback.\r\n\r\nMy question about the E's isn't just about
    matching other letters, but also about matching itself, so to speak. Right now,
    there are three versions which might appear depending on the following character.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AGIEngETest_5837.jpg]\r\n\r\nThe
    first appears when E can't join to the following character, the second when it
    can, and the third when the second can't be used.\r\n\r\nThere are a variety of
    other joined forms which are causing me headaches, so I thought I'd take a bit
    of a break from thinking about them so I can come back with a fresh mind. In the
    meantime, though, I sketched out some ideas for expanding this into an actual
    family with additional weights. Unfortunately, if I want to maintain the same
    sorts of behaviours across weights, the design imposes some rather severe restrictions
    on the weight of horizontal stems, so in trying to make bolder weights, I've ended
    up with a situation where the contrast increases with the weight. I'm not sure
    how unnatural that is. Anyways, I've just done basic alphabets, but here's what
    I have so far.\r\n\r\nregular weight (for comparison sake -- this is the one I've
    been working on all along)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AGIEngRTest_5657.jpg]\r\n\r\nmedium
    weight:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AGIEngMTest_6077.jpg]\r\n\r\nbold
    weight:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AGIEngBTest_6311.jpg]\r\n\r\nThe
    black departs a bit from the progression above:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AGIEngUTest_5036.jpg]\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2010-04-29 18:15:51'
- author:
    name: intermalte
  body: The characteristic changes totally for the black version and even the bold
    one has a different feel. It does not seem to be the same family.
  created: '2010-04-29 22:48:24'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "Yes, that was my concern (not so much for the black one, where that was rather
    intentional, but for the medium and bold).\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2010-04-30 03:05:47'
date: '2009-07-17 17:21:32'
files:
- filename: Alice2010MR16_0.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Alice2010MR16_0.pdf
node_type: forum
title: 'Byzantium: wondering if worth expanding into complete font'

---
