---
author:
  name: sandrosandro
  picture: 112363
body: "I need some advice regarding designing a poetry book. Except standard book
  issues regarding book design and prose, what should I pay attention and think while
  designing a poetry book.\r\n\r\nThis is my first time dealing with designing a poetry
  book so please help and write some advices regarding this subject. \r\n\r\nThanks\r\n\r\np.s
  Added first mock-up sample pages"
comments:
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: "<li>Before you pick your trim size, type size, and margins, look at <em>all</em>
    the poems in the book and see how long the longest lines are. You may not be able
    to avoid line breaks altogether, but design to avoid frequent line breaks.</li>\r\n<li>Pay
    careful attention to leading.</li>\r\n<li>Look at the lengths of the poems, and
    design your trim size and margins to avoid either excessively short pages or too
    many page breaks. When you do have a page break, put the break where it makes
    sense in the poem, not just where you run out of room.</li>\r\n<li>You'll have
    a lot of paper showing, so choose a good quality paper, off-white rather than
    bright white.</li>\r\n<li>Don't use running heads at all, and don't use folios
    (page numbers) unless the book is longer than 40-50 pages. Pages of poetry usually
    have a lot of white space, so running heads and folios are much more conspicuous--and
    distracting--than they are in books of prose. </li>\r\n\r\nMy first book design
    assignment was a book of poems. Good luck, and please post some sample pages here
    when you're done."
  created: '2009-07-18 12:16:45'
- author:
    name: sandrosandro
    picture: 112363
  body: "Victor thanks, this is also my first book design assignment in business.\r\n\r\nI'll
    post soon with some sample pages and also cover lettering."
  created: '2009-07-18 13:08:56'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "Let me add a few things to Mojo's very sensible comments. \r\n\r\nPAGE SIZE
    is very often dictated by the publisher. Even publishers most sensitive to poetry
    will often tell designers what the page size is to be. Publishers have their own
    arcana on this matter, which they consult during s\xE9ances. When the publisher
    tells the designer the page size it almost inevitably creates difficulties (OOOPS:
    I mean \"challenges and opportunities\") for the designer and/or compositor.\r\n\r\nPAPER
    is also often chosen by the production manager at the publishing house. If this
    book will be printed by a book printer, paper choice will be further limited by
    papers the printer keeps in stock. Few books of poetry will have sales enough
    to warrant a special order of paper. Mojo's right: natural or off-white is best.\r\n\r\nFOLIOS
    need to be discreet in size and placement. Head to the library and look at a lot
    of poetry books and folio placement. This can be a tough nut to crack with poetry
    books, thanks to the white space Mojo mentions.\r\n\r\nRUNNING HEADS cannot be
    automatically dismissed. A poetry anthology may require them. Even at times a
    book by a single author may require them. This may be more of an editorial call
    than a design call.\r\n\r\nDesigning poetry books can be a lot of fun. In my current
    job I miss doing poetry. At times designers get lucky and end up collaborating
    with editors and poets, engaging them in discussion and showing alternate examples
    of settings. It often reduces the profit margin on design & composition even further
    than its already low state. But you may find some excellent writing and you may
    make a pal of a poet who gets a good design. I'm eager to see what you come up
    with. Good luck; have fun.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2009-07-18 19:26:54'
- author:
    name: iamcorey
  body: Once you decide on a nice typeface, I would say pay close attention to ligatures.
  created: '2009-07-19 08:20:18'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "good suggestions were given above.\r\n\r\nif you encounter difficulties with
    any aspects of the book,\r\nsee if you can communicate with the poet to resolve
    them.\r\n\r\nyou might find s/he is more than willing to do rewriting\r\n-- e.g.,
    to choose a linebreak rather than have you force\r\none -- and this will make
    both of you feel much better...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-20 08:04:58'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> Publishers have their own arcana on this matter, which they consult during
    s\xE9ances. \r\n\r\nHa, ha. However, for those who might not see this as a quip,
    I want to point out that the publishers dictate page size based on press specifications.
    If you add even a quarter inch in dimension to a page, you make it too large to
    be printed economically on a certain press. The result is that the job has to
    be printed 8 pages at time instead of 16, effectively doubling most of the production
    costs.\r\n\r\nIt may seem like arcana if you don't know the procedure, but in
    fact it is simple math. And economics."
  created: '2009-07-20 13:36:43'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "Don:\r\n\r\nI was indeed attempting a quip. But there's a bit more to it
    than the purely math and economic aspects of paper size and press size. Why, for
    instance, do many publishers reckon the \"right\" size for a book of memoirs is
    to be 5.5\" x 8.5\"? Why not 6\" x 9\"? Why must academic books be 6\" x 9\" instead
    of 5.5\" x 8.5?\r\n\r\nWhy cannot a book be an \"odd\" (say, tall, and slender)
    size if the economics are not negatively affected? Trying to get these notions
    changed for a book that may need a special treatment can be a tough nut to crack.
    I've been exposed to these decisions for decades now, and I'm often flabbergasted.
    Especially with poetry, some works call out for a different size, but publishers
    cannot be convinced. Often the discussions do take on the aspect of a s\xE9ance.\r\n\r\nIt
    should also be noted that bookstore shelf size is also a factor in deciding the
    size of many books.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2009-07-20 14:45:08'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "I'll echo what Will said. Having also been involved in some of these \"calculations\"
    when I was Creative Director at Storey Publishing, I will say that there are a
    number of factors which make up the \"arcana.\" \r\n\r\nProduction economics are
    an important factor. Those being met, then design considerations and suitability
    to the content may come into play. But market expectations and trade considerations
    will also play a key part. (Even down to what will fit on the shelves in a particular
    section of a bookstore, as Will pointed out; some sections will have taller or
    shorter or deeper or shallower shelf sections -- think art books vs. fiction.)\r\n\r\nYou
    could theoretically have the exact same book (same title, same content, same production
    costs and price point) but markedly different proportions -- say, one tall and
    slender, the other nearly squarish (remember, I did say \"theoretically\") --
    and one will be deemed more sellable than the other.\r\n\r\nAs with any design
    destined for the marketplace, there is a delicate dance to be found between going
    with the flow and standing out from the crowd."
  created: '2009-07-21 16:19:20'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: "Paper can comprise half the cost of manufacturing a book, so publishers and
    printers are keen not to waste any. 6 by 9 inches is an economical size because
    most book papers are manufactured in a 25-by-38-inch size, which just fits 16
    pages (four 6's out of 25 and four 9's out of 38, with just enough left over for
    folding and trimming). \r\nIf you're printing a quarter-million copies of <em>Harry
    Potter and the Dingbats of Doom</em>, it makes an enormous difference whether
    your trim size is 6 or 6-1/2. \r\nBut this ain't Harry Potter, it's poetry, and
    if the print run is more than 1000, I'll eat my Haberule. \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Haberule_5976.jpg]\r\n<em>(My
    Haberule)</em>\r\n\r\nPoetry lives on the fringes of the publishing world, where
    you don't enjoy economies of scale, but you're not subject to the tyranny of scale,
    either. Random House can't afford to let a designer suggest a different trim size
    or kind of paper, but most poetry publishers are small, independent operations
    who are more likely to engage in a dialogue. "
  created: '2009-07-21 17:39:39'
- author:
    name: whoneedselectricity
  body: 'Quick poetry related question. Would anyone ever consider placing folios
    centered on the sides of pages? Just something that crossed my mind. '
  created: '2009-07-21 17:41:17'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: "Mr. Electricity, folios centered north-south on the outside edge of the page
    can be an elegant and distinguished look, but remember that most poetry is ragged
    right. The pages have a clearly defined left edge and no visible right edge, so
    your left-hand folios will have a very different relation to the mass of type
    on the page than your right-hand folios will.\r\n\r\nBut maybe that's the effect
    you wanted."
  created: '2009-07-21 17:53:43'
- author:
    name: whoneedselectricity
  body: "Thanks for the quick reply. I'm fairly new to all this and the idea just
    sort of popped into my head. \r\n"
  created: '2009-07-21 17:54:32'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "speaking as a poet here, i find most books of poetry are\r\ndeadeningly boring...
    \ i suggest adding pictures to pages,\r\nwith the poet or an art-director choosing
    which ones to uses,\r\nutilizing creative commons pictures if that's all you can
    afford.\r\n\r\ni'm just sayin'...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-21 22:56:04'
- author:
    name: omeld
    picture: 116750
  body: "I agree with bowerbird about the majority of poetry books being rather uninteresting
    in terms of typesetting.\r\n\r\nTo me, careful and individual placement of poems
    is the most important aspect; each poem must relate to the page as a whole. This
    fails miserably in the case of short poems clinging to the upper left corner of
    the text block. The most pleasing -- but also the most functional -- placements,
    which allow the poems to breathe, are (visually) centered on the horizontal and
    have maybe a generous vertical indent, too.\r\n\r\nI've seen many books where
    the poems were set so that their last line was always at the bottom of the text
    block -- what was changing was the vertical position of the first line. This doesn't
    always work, though, and sometimes too much jumping around can also become distracting.
    You have to figure it out accordingly.\r\n\r\nThere's an example of a poetry book
    in Hochuli's Desining Books with the title on the verso and the poem on the recto.\r\n\r\nNothing
    fancy, no poetic cliches, but make sure that individual poems don't look like
    they were falling down or out of the page. Don't make them look ashamed of their
    existence, place them in a way that will underline their self-sustained aesthetic
    importance."
  created: '2009-07-22 08:32:25'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "excellent input, omeld...\r\n\r\ni'm a performance poet, who no longer even
    bothers\r\nto output pieces to the page, but back when i did that,\r\nand cared
    about what they looked like on paper, i'd\r\nadjust the _leading_ of each piece
    so that top lines and\r\nbottom lines always fell at page-top and page-bottom.\r\n(my
    lines are always centered, if it helps you visualize it.)\r\n\r\nit worked for
    me; i liked its sensibility.\r\n\r\nso if the poet has interest or input on how
    s/he would\r\nlike the poems to look on the page, i'd listen carefully...\r\n\r\nas
    for graphics, a friend and i designed his chapbook\r\nusing maps as graphics on
    most of the pages, which\r\nwould be extremely simple today with google maps...\r\n\r\ni'm
    also constantly on the lookout for the poet who\r\nwants to hand print her chapbook
    in her own writing,\r\nbecause i sense that i'm going to find her _eventually_.\r\n(that's
    how i know it's a woman.)  however, if you should\r\nfind her first, do please
    go ahead and suggest it to her...\r\n(she'll know immediately it's what she wants
    to do, and\r\nshe will thank you then and there, and later, repeatedly.)\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-22 09:50:50'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> Why must academic books be 6\u201D x 9\u201D instead of 5.5\u201D x 8.5?\r\n\r\nBecause
    publishers charge a fortune for them, since adopted texts are a captive audience,
    and the larger size is a rationale they can use for the higher fee. (Like a unit
    price of 4.27 for the smaller size, and a unit price of 4.59 for the larger price
    justified selling the book for $40 more).\r\n\r\nComputer books in the 90s were
    other books that would sell at any price, and thus were overpriced. They also
    tended to be a slightly larger format.\r\n\r\n(I just got a book from the college
    bookstore yesterday for a course I am building. 1 inch thick (500+ pages) 9x12
    hardcover format, and a price tag of $142.75 Canadian. Something tells me that
    the poetry book that this thread is about will cost closer to 10% of that.)"
  created: '2009-07-22 13:26:09'
- author:
    name: omeld
    picture: 116750
  body: "<cite>&gt; i\u2019m a performance poet, who no longer even bothers\r\nto
    output pieces to the page</cite>\r\n\r\nWith me it's the opposite: that's how
    I got into typesetting ;-)"
  created: '2009-07-22 13:36:58'
- author:
    name: crazig
  body: "I also came to typesetting and book design through poetry and I can't stress
    the importance of materials and size when making these things enough. I work on
    a lot of pamphlets and I always go pocket size, nice cover boards and endpapers.
    Length of poem to page as well. I do like folios but placement can be tricky -
    I centre on the longest line in [ ].\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-22 15:01:53'
- author:
    name: sandrosandro
    picture: 112363
  body: "Here are some sample of first mockup pages:\r\n\r\nhttp://umas.hr/~sandro/nevio.pdf\r\n\r\nWhole
    book is mixture of all kind of styles, themes, subjects, varying in extremes from
    very short to very long poems, but in the end sea and life at the sea is most
    frequent subject and that gave me an idea... Author of the book is old sailor,
    bohemian, man that has free spirit. He had ideas about pictures, colors, crazy
    typographic compositions that can't go thru because of the costs.\r\n \r\nAnd
    now to elaborate my approach, i created horizon line that all poetry aligns thus
    creating dynamic movement thru whole book that resembles waves and sea. So that
    is why titles are beneath poems.\r\n\r\nAnd numbers are not numbers of the pages,
    they are numbers related to songs. \r\n\r\nAlso sometimes poems become horizontal
    if they are too long or if I have opportunity to place them on a spread.\r\n\r\nShould
    I use running heads? To even these numbers position or something.\r\n_\r\nAny
    constructive critic is welcomed. \r\n\r\nThanks\r\n\r\nS."
  created: '2009-07-23 21:11:27'
- author:
    name: whoneedselectricity
  body: 'What exactly are the numbers for? Is there and accompanying musical composition?  '
  created: '2009-07-24 01:53:49'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "ravel said:\r\n>   He had ideas about pictures, colors, crazy typographic
    compositions \r\n>   that can\u2019t go thru because of the costs.\r\n\r\ndo an
    e-book for him.  pictures and colors cost absolutely nothing!\r\nand he can distribute
    the thing freely, throughout the entire planet...\r\n\r\n\r\n>   And now to elaborate
    my approach, i created horizon line \r\n>   that all poetry aligns thus creating
    dynamic movement \r\n>   thru whole book that resembles waves and sea. \r\n>   So
    that is why titles are beneath poems.\r\n\r\nvery creative!  good for you.  i'll
    take a look at the .pdf tomorrow.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-24 05:36:03'
- author:
    name: sandrosandro
    picture: 112363
  body: "E-book is not an option. He want real, solid book, that will be given as
    a present mostly, maybe some copies would be sold. \r\n\r\nAlso there are about
    ten photos in whole book that has about 120 pages. \r\n\r\nAbout the numbers,
    they told me just that numbers are numbers of poems, and yes some of them are
    lyrics for songs."
  created: '2009-07-24 09:56:14'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "I like the titles at the bottom, in this type of work. Very creative, and
    it fits well with the constant baseline for the works. I browsed the book before
    seeing you explanation ... the waves didn't register for me, but there was nothing
    negative about the placement.\r\n\r\nI think running heads would be a distraction.
    \r\n\r\nI did feel the amount of margin at the bottom was a bit much. What do
    others think?"
  created: '2009-07-24 14:13:12'
- author:
    name: sandrosandro
    picture: 112363
  body: "Printed, bottom margin is optimal, especially because format and margins
    are built on golden ratio of format itself.\r\n\r\nUploaded new version of sample
    with different kind of style for horizontal layout poems. \r\n\r\nWhat do you
    think of notes on first page, author wanted place and date with that poem?\r\n\r\nnew
    one http://umas.hr/~sandro/nevio.pdf\r\nhttp://umas.hr/~sandro/nevio%20old.pdf"
  created: '2009-07-24 15:04:48'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "ravel said:\r\n>   E-book is not an option. \r\n\r\nit's always an option,
    because it doesn't foreclose other options.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   He want real, solid
    book, \r\n>   that will be given as a present mostly, \r\n>   maybe some copies
    would be sold.\r\n\r\ni understand.  but he also had \"ideas about pictures, colors,
    crazy \r\ntypographic compositions that can\u2019t go thru because of the costs.\"\r\nso
    creating a second electronic-only edition will nudge his creativity.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\np.s.
    \ the layout looks great.  but the type could be a bit bigger...      ;+)\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-24 21:15:04'
- author:
    name: sandrosandro
    picture: 112363
  body: "Running text is set in 9 pt with generous leading at 12 pt, and titles in
    14.56 pt. \r\n\r\nI think that 10 pt would be little to much, and with the same
    leading wouldn't be the same feel, and because of lenght of some poems and layout
    I cannot afford to set leading 13 pt or higher.\r\n\r\nE-book creation is also
    matter of time and budget... :) Budget that is pretty limited\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-25 12:47:01'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: ">What do you think of notes on first page, author wanted place and date with
    that poem?\r\n\r\nI like the idea how and where the note is placed, but i'm not
    sure that you need a itaiic, for me it looks a tick too colorful. Did you try
    the regular weight instead?"
  created: '2009-07-25 14:25:20'
- author:
    name: sandrosandro
    picture: 112363
  body: Yeah, had the same doubt, but wanted do differentiate from the poem type style,
    notes have same size as running text, so tought italic would make that difference.
    But I think that you are right that is tick too colorful.
  created: '2009-07-25 16:10:46'
- author:
    name: sandrosandro
    picture: 112363
  body: What about horizontally placed poems? Centered or aligned left on horizon
    line?
  created: '2009-07-25 16:22:02'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "ravel said:\r\n>   Running text is set in 9 pt \r\n>   with generous leading
    at 12 pt, \r\n>   and titles in 14.56 pt.\r\n\r\ni'd use 10-point, or even 11-point,
    (or 10.7-point),\r\nand still feel 12-point leading gives enough spacing.\r\n\r\ni
    also feel comfortable changing the leading of pieces.\r\nso i'd go with a generous
    leading for most of the book,\r\nand tighten it up only on the few pieces when
    needed.\r\n(oftentimes i'll make sure the leading matches for the\r\ntwo pieces
    that compose a facing-pages spread, but\r\ni don't think readers notice a change
    between pages.\r\nand even if they do, what difference does it make?\r\ni've known
    poets who set every poem in its own font,\r\nspecifically chosen for it, and i
    liked that just fine, so\r\ni see no problem with doing intelligent copy-fitting.)\r\n\r\ni'd
    also size the titles down, and count on bolding and\r\ntheir separation/appearance
    to make their role clear...\r\nthat would give you a touch more room, when needed.\r\n\r\ni
    also didn't care for the horizontally-placed poems...\r\nbut maybe that's just
    me, which brings up the disclaim:\r\nthis feedback is given solely because you
    asked for it.\r\nyou're the one doing the job; the decisions are yours.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-25 22:55:34'
- author:
    name: sandrosandro
    picture: 112363
  body: "No problem bowerbird, I like to hear toughts of others.\r\n\r\nWouldn't changing
    leading confront the baseline and feel of reading, grey blocks appearing on back
    of the page?"
  created: '2009-07-26 14:08:38'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "i'm assuming no bleed-through\r\nfrom the other side of the page,\r\ndue
    to thick-enough paper...\r\n\r\nmost poetry books are slight,\r\nso one can afford
    thicker paper,\r\nwhich will help fill out the spine.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\np.s.
    \ also, since you do not have\r\nthe same number of lines on each\r\npage, bleed-through
    will be bad\r\nfor you anyway.  the fact that it's\r\n\"on a grid\" will be of
    little solace.\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-26 21:43:49'
- author:
    name: sandrosandro
    picture: 112363
  body: "Had a little comment from the poet, and in the end, and it seems odd, he
    thinks that this solution is too experimental and he doesn't want to be experimented
    on. With these kind of poems, style, theme and everything in the end that seems
    pretty odd and experimental he thinks that is not for him. \r\n\r\nGoing back
    to \"classic\" drawing board."
  created: '2009-07-27 10:34:14'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: ">   too experimental\r\n\r\nah well, i hope you had fun while it lasted.
    \       :+)\r\n\r\nif it's any consolation, i thought your layout was very imaginative,\r\nand
    did a good job of hinting at the lilt of the underlying content.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-27 18:20:30'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "I am sorry that you have to go back to the drawing board, for you have something
    really nice here. I'm pretty stodgy, but this does not seem \"too experimental\"
    to me.\r\n\r\nI had meant to post some comments when you posted the first sample
    on the 23rd, but I got too busy. So I'll give them here anyway.\r\n\r\nI really
    like the titles at the bottom, and the varying line lengths of the poems moving
    up. The undulation is very nice. I think I would have gone with italic for the
    poem titles. For some contrast, and to keep the idea of \"flow\" going.\r\n\r\nThe
    folios bother me a bit. At the risk of getting too fussy, I might have looked
    at a light sans for them.\r\n\r\nIn the poems on pages 11 and 12, how about tracking
    out the all-cap lines a bit? And then you'll need to adjust some pairs, such as
    RA to get even latter spacing throughout those poems.\r\n\r\nThe horizontal poem
    looks fine. A nice jolt there.\r\n\r\nType size and lead are fine; don't mess
    with them, especially differential leading among poems. The note at the first
    poem looks very nice; italic is right for that element. & don't worry about show-through.
    Unless you print the thing on cover paper you'll always have some show through.
    And for this book (if this is the whole extent of it) you will want a nice, flexible
    book.\r\n\r\nAs I say: I\u2019m sorry to see you need to re-work this. We\u2019ll
    be interested to see what you come up with.\r\n\r\npowers\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-27 18:38:36'
- author:
    name: sandrosandro
    picture: 112363
  body: "Bowerbird and Will thanks for comments, I really appreciate it. \r\n\r\nSadly
    this solution didn't go thru, I will try to do my best within given constraints.\r\n\r\nWill
    I did some tracking, it's values are about 50 i think, without kerning or adjusting.
    Didn't want to go thru details at this stage. \r\n\r\nCurrently, author and his
    associate are trying to find sponsors for print so that they can print and put
    photos back in. Other side of this story is that visually, these photos are pretty
    bad, sometimes no motive or theme, just snapshots. What to do with these requests?"
  created: '2009-07-28 11:33:00'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "Some people would hold their noses, do the job, and take the check to the
    bank. many wold make sure they were not listed in the credits for the project.
    Others would decline to be part of the project any further. Every circumstance
    is individual. I designed and composed a poetry book a while back. The publisher
    and author wanted things I did not like. I sent them the files, told them to do
    as they wished with them, and told them to keep my name out of the book. It was
    a pro bono job so I was not going to get any loot anyway. The files had been done,
    they were of no use to me. \r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2009-07-28 12:07:33'
- author:
    name: sandrosandro
    picture: 112363
  body: "My name in the book could give me some further reference and possibly more
    projects. Maybe I could do some safe net and write credits of photos directly
    to author of poems.\r\n\r\nOther side of the story that these photos will downgrade
    visual quality of final product. "
  created: '2009-07-28 12:21:02'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "welcome to the flaky world of poets.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-28 22:58:45'
- author:
    name: sandrosandro
    picture: 112363
  body: "http://umas.hr/~sandro/nevionew.pdf\r\n\r\nFinally, we came to aggrement,
    no photos, no colors. I agreed on smaller format, now 14x23cm, with 10 pt poem
    text with side folios.\r\n\r\nIn the pdf are also centered folios. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-04 11:59:35'
- author:
    name: Pablo Trabajos
    picture: 118162
  body: I've been looking at your layouts and I preferred the first design rather
    than the last. What's your own opinion about the changes?
  created: '2009-10-07 18:08:35'
date: '2009-07-18 10:07:58'
files:
- filename: b5 zlatni.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/b5 zlatni.pdf
node_type: forum
title: Setting poetry book

---
