---
author:
  name: Michael Hernan
  picture: 111011
body: "I would very much appreciate the following paragraph to be translated to enable
  a clearer insight of Emil\xE9 Javal's finding on the relationship between type design
  (width?) and legibility...\r\n\r\nThis is for my MA thesis: Compact Typography:The
  design of typefaces conceived for small size applications.\r\n\r\nYour help is greatly
  appreciated. I intend to post my specific findings on Javal and Dreyfuss's experiment
  here on Typophile.\r\n\r\nHere is the text...\r\n\r\nOn voit que la longueur des
  lignes diminue en m\xEAme temps que la hauteur des lettres, mais que la diminution
  de largeur est bien plus lente que celle en hauteur, parce que les graveurs ont
  reconnu, sans bien s\u2019en rendre compte, que la diminution de lisibilit\xE9 est
  attribuable principalement \xE0 la diminution de largeur des lettres. C\u2019est
  l\xE0 un fait capital que nous avons signal\xE9 depuis longtemps.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\n\r\nMichael
  Hernan"
comments:
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "We see that line length diminishes at the same time as the height of the
    letters, but that the decrease in the width is much slower than that of the height,
    because the engravers have recognized, without fully realizing, that the decrease
    in readability is mainly attributable to the decrease in the width of the letters.
    That is an important fact that we have noticed for a long time.\r\n\r\nETA: <em>graveur</em>
    probably should be taken as 'typecutter' in this context. Whether <em>lisibilit\xE9</em>
    is translated as 'readability' or 'legibility' depends on how you're using the
    terminology..."
  created: '2009-07-19 14:03:49'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: "Thanks Jongseong, this is much better than my previous Bablefish translation...
    but am trying to make it clearer...\r\n\r\nBy tweaking this a little would this
    still be an accurate translation.... (or have I gone too far...)\r\n\r\nUpon a
    first glance, it is seen that line length decreases in direct proportion to the
    diminishing height of the letters. However under closer scrutiny, the line width
    decreases at a slower rate than to that of the height. The punch-cutters have
    recognised that by allowing the letters to become proportionally wider as the
    text becomes smaller maintains legibility. They understood that a negative impact
    in legibility is mainly attributable to the decrease in the width of the letters
    resulting from a 'natural' reduction in scale.\r\n\r\nI have included the Fig
    from the Book however - it doesn't follow the rule observation above very consistently!\r\n\r\n_________________________________\r\nMichael
    Hernan\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Javal-Fig-60_5369.png]"
  created: '2009-07-19 14:23:48'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: I would probably describe that as an expanded paraphrase of the original rather
    than a translation. Having said that, I think it's an accurate depiction of the
    intent of the original. The original doesn't spell out that the letters are made
    proportionally wider, just that the decrease is slower than the decrease in height,
    but that comes out to mean the same thing.
  created: '2009-07-19 14:37:40'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: "@Jongseong Thanks for that.\r\n\r\n>expanded paraphrase\r\n\r\n-will do.\r\n\r\nYes,
    it was the 'slower' that was throwing me.\r\n\r\nTask done - Next....\r\n\r\n_________________________________\r\nMichael
    Hernan"
  created: '2009-07-19 15:05:27'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>I have included the Fig from the Book however - it doesn\u2019t follow
    the rule observation above very consistently!</cite>\r\n\r\nFirst, I don't think
    that \"en m\xEAme temps\" is to be interpreted as meaning \"directly proportional\".
    I read it as meaning that if point size decreases, so does the length of the line
    displaying a full alphabet. I would rather translate as follows: \"The line length
    (in fig 60) is seen to decrease with point size\" (which is a weird way of saying
    that the line length is an increasing function of the point size). The citation
    also means that if character height is decreased by some percentage, then the
    width will be decreased by a smaller percentage. That seems to be true except
    for the lines at 5 and 4 points. Indeed 4 points 20% less than 5 points but the
    length at 4 points seems to be about 24% less than that at 5 points."
  created: '2009-07-19 17:02:21'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: "Michel, You are right, I have introduced \"directly proportional\" as a layman
    assumption, so as to make the next sentence make more sense. i.e so it follows
    : However under closer scrutiny, the line width decreases at a slower rate than
    to that of the height.\r\n\r\nI like the way you describe the relationship by
    assigning percentages to each the length and height - so I can lose the \"slower\"
    description - Cool.\r\n\r\nIts funny that at 4 and 5 points the rule breaks. I
    wonder if this is because such small text is not supposed for extended text and
    therefore can be made to become narrow again?\r\n\r\n_________________________________\r\nMichael
    Hernan"
  created: '2009-07-19 19:31:37'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Michael, Maybe I was too categorical in my statement.\r\n\r\nSince all the
    lines are equally spaced vertically with a constant increment of 1 point, the
    line length would in fact be directly proportional to the point size if all lines
    ended on the diagonal red line in the following figure (since both vertical and
    horizontal scales are then linear). \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Javal2_5539.jpg]\r\nThis
    would happen if the width of each character was proportional to its point size
    i.e. if incrementing height by a certain percentage would correspond to incrementing
    width by the very same percentage.  Now, most characters are taller than wide.
    For a character that is twice taller than wide, if proportions are always kept
    that way, the rate of increase of the height of that character will always be
    twice the rate of increase of its width; that is a trivial mathematical fact,
    having nothing to do with the skills of punchcutters; I thus can't image this
    is the kind of speed Javal had in mind and that is why I took for granted that
    he was comparing relative changes instead of absolute changes. If my interpretation
    is correct, then the line ends are not on the red diagonal (I guess they should
    be on some convex curve) and the line at 4 points should be much longer.\r\n\r\nAfter
    looking at other threads and links concerning that book, I now feel like  having
    a look at it. I guess I'll do that tomorrow.\r\n\r\nMichel\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-19 22:33:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>One sees that line length decreases with letter height, but the decrease
    in width is much slower than that of height, because engravers recognized, instinctively,
    that decrease in readability is mainly attributable to decrease in letter width.
    Therein is a major effect which we </em>[I] <em>have long pointed out.</em>\r\n\r\nIn
    the chart, letter height decreases from 14 to 4, a factor of 3.5.\r\nLine length
    decreases by a factor of 3.\r\nAll he's saying is that 3.5 is bigger than 3.\r\nI
    don't think he intends there to be any exactitude in his demonstration, if one
    takes \"sans bien s'en rendre compte\" quite literally, i.e. \"without properly
    committing themselves to counting\"."
  created: '2009-07-19 23:58:29'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '@ Hernan: Can you cite the article you are referencing?'
  created: '2009-07-20 00:50:32'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "\r\n[edit] removed.\r\n\r\n[edit] \"se rendre compte de\" means \"to realize\".
    \"Je me suis rendu compte qu'elle \xE9tait ravissante d\xE8s que nos regards se
    sont crois\xE9s\" should have nothing to do with counting!"
  created: '2009-07-20 01:10:31'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>All he\u2019s saying is that 3.5 is bigger than 3.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou
    say it in terms of factors, I said it in terms of percentages. Both approaches
    are equivalent."
  created: '2009-07-20 01:18:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "\u201Cse rendre compte de\u201D means \u201Cto realize\u201D.\r\n\r\nIf that
    is so, what does \"recognize without realizing\" mean?!\r\n\r\nThe text in question
    was written over 100 years ago. Words and phrases have many meanings, which change
    according to time and context; dictionary translations also change, and writers
    can indulge in word play. \r\n\r\nWith that in mind, I translated \"sans bien
    s\u2019en rendre compte,\" as \"instinctively\", <em>taking into account</em>
    that the word \"compte\" may perhaps contain at least a trace of its discrete
    meaning. \r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nInterestingly, the word \"capital\" (French) would
    have translated very nicely into \"capital\" (English) 100 years ago, although
    now that is an archaic usage (e.g. \"Capital idea, Watson!\" -- Sherlock Holmes).
    Is \"capital\" (French) in the Javal usage similarly archaic?"
  created: '2009-07-20 02:48:03'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Nick, translating \"sans bien s'en rendre compte\" by \"instinctively\" seems
    quite fine to me. I was just astounded by your literal translation.  I never thought
    that Baudelaire, who died in 1887, sounded oldish, but maybe I am getting old
    myself (I even studied Villon (who died in 1463) and texts in sixteenth century
    French when I was in high school). \r\n\r\n[Added] I think I could indeed use
    the word \"capital\" in class the same way Javal used it and I am quite sure my
    students would understand.\r\n\r\n[Added] I just Googled \"fait capital\" and
    found it on recent blogs. I am not getting that old after all!"
  created: '2009-07-20 03:35:54'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@ Boyer: [[http://www.iro.umontreal.ca/~boyer/|Is this you?]] You both appear
    to be academics from Montr\xE9al\u2026"
  created: '2009-07-20 03:48:28'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: '@ Dean: Yes this is me. '
  created: '2009-07-20 03:57:47'
- author:
    name: johnnydib
    picture: 116018
  body: "I found the first translation by Jongseong very accurate and to the point,
    there's no need in over analyzing the syntax.\r\nBut I think it's important to
    note that the punchcutters didn't work in vectors and so scaling up and down was
    not available. In fact they didn't even think of it that way they had no intention
    of scaling the shapes they were cutting, because they were not executing architectural
    drawings. What they were doing were size specific fonts (size specific fonts were
    a technical limitation here, not a readability or aesthetic issue) then it made
    sense that all the sizes have the same style or be on \"typeface\"\r\n\r\n:D I
    just finished reading Counterpunch by Fred Smeijers and became an expert on punchcutting!"
  created: '2009-07-20 07:10:43'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: "To clarify the source:\r\n\r\nCompact Typographie (Section 3) (page 219)
    from:\r\n\r\nJaval, \xC9mile. Physiologie de la lecture et de l\u2019\xE9criture.
    Biblioth\xE8que scientifique internationale, 105. Paris: F. Alcan, 1905. (p219)\r\n\r\nReprinted
    Edition Published by Les Classiques des Sciences Humaines, Paris, 1976\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-20 09:05:37'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: "@Michel, \"instinct\"- perfect.\r\n\r\nOf interest: Looking at how the cascade
    is working, I suggest it might be that three drawings were made and used on a
    pantograph (Assuming c.1900 at Deberny Foundry) to create multiple type size:\r\n\r\nA.
    LARGE used for 14, 13, 12, 11\r\nB. MEDIUM 10, 9, 8, 7, 6  (and 4)\r\nC. SMALL
    5pt only\r\n\r\nby using the medium drawing for the smallest size means that a
    narrower set is achieved.\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-20 09:42:15'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: "@Nick, @Michel, \"The punch-cutters instinctivly knew\"- perfect.\r\n\r\nOf
    interest: Looking at how the cascade is working, I suggest it might be that three
    drawings were made and used on a pantograph (Assuming c.1900 at Deberny Foundry)
    to create multiple type size:\r\n\r\nA. LARGE used for 14, 13, 12, 11\r\nB. MEDIUM
    10, 9, 8, 7, 6  (and 4)\r\nC. SMALL 5pt only\r\n\r\nby using the medium drawing
    for the smallest size means that a narrower set is achieved.\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-20 09:50:24'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: "For me this is one of those black art - secret knowledge things, - that continue
    to bug me.\r\n\r\nA properly performing optical cascade is a rare thing. It would
    be an interesting project to compare from different foundries who were considering
    such things up until the beginning of the 20th century. I think by the time we
    get to Univers, new rules are in place and old ideas have gone (lost). We are
    now grappling for this insight.\r\n\r\nWhere cascades are irregular (such as this
    one), it is really interesting to try and work out what was going on in-terms
    of intention, limitations and practical approaches to achieving intended results.
    Odd discrepancies such as the narrow set 4pt add added intrigue also reminding
    us that rules are to be broken when necessary.\r\n\r\nWhy I have been fascinated
    in Javal, is that he is a lay person with a keen interest in optics. My imagination
    has him in correspondence with M. Tegu (perhaps actual meetings) where the secrets
    of type manufacture are being explained to him (Javal is blind), then they are
    being recounted in the book but only as half facts because Javal doesn't quite
    have the right knowledge to know for instance, if the punch-cutters (engravers)
    actually knew what they were doing!\r\n\r\nBut it is precisely this outside position
    (mentality) which gave him permission to create with M. Dreyfuss radical designs
    solving optical problems.\r\n\r\n/m"
  created: '2009-07-20 12:22:10'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> a constant increment of 1 point\r\n\r\nIs that correct? Or would a constant
    increment be a fixed percentage of size. Going from 9 point to 10 point is 111.11%,
    while going from 10 to 11 is 10 percent, etc. (5 to 6 is 120%)."
  created: '2009-07-20 13:21:36'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "@Don: <cite>Or would a constant increment be a fixed percentage of size.</cite>\r\n\r\nIf
    you do that, you get what is called a logarithmic scale. That seems to be the
    right scale indeed because the word \"slower\" used by Javal does not apply to
    width versus height but to the log of the width versus the log of the height (the
    \"speeds\" that are compared are the rates of change of those logarithms, i.e.
    \ <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Logarithmic_derivative\">logarithmic
    derivative</a>s)."
  created: '2009-07-20 13:46:25'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "@Michael: <cite> I suggest it might be that three drawings were made and
    used on a pantograph</cite>\r\n\r\nCorrect me if I am wrong but I thought a pantograph
    would just scale down proportionately the given pattern like a postscript font
    is scaled down when we select the point size. If so, the line ends for a fixed
    design should be aligned like what occurred to Adobe Garamond Pro in this grab:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gara14_6055.jpg]\r\nFor
    Fig 60, we rather get\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Javal14_5010.jpg]\r\nand
    the line at 13 points looks shorter than it should for the pattern to be the same
    one scaled proportionately.\r\nMichel"
  created: '2009-07-20 14:16:34'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: "@Michel\r\nEssentially you are correct - a pantograph (punch-cutting machine)
    will make very strict reductions as shown in your top diagram.\r\nHowever I am
    finding that in some instances and perhaps with this example (fig. 60) that artistic
    licence might be taken with the pantograph drawings. Perhaps tracing the drawing's
    outlines with adjustments being done on the fly. The operator of the machine acting
    with the same sensitivities as the traditional punch-cutter? I can't confirm this
    but open this hypothesis up...\r\n\r\np38 Letters of Credit, Walter Tracy\r\nSays
    of Updike:\r\nI have sometimes questioned whether a machine can be so managed
    that it will ever produce those fine and imperceptible qualities of design given
    to it by the hand of a clever type cutter... That there has been an improvement
    of late [he was writing in 1922] in type cut by machine is undeniable... This
    improvement, I learn, has come to pass through a more sympathetic and subtle manipulation
    of the machine itself, and by the rules by the eye of the workman who operates
    it.'\r\n\r\nTracy says no more on the matter.  =(\r\n\r\n\r\n_________________________________\r\nMichael
    Hernan"
  created: '2009-07-20 15:17:27'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: There is considerable variation in the letter details for the different sizes
    in this sample. Take a look at the descender of the y through the different sizes,
    for example.
  created: '2009-07-20 15:59:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Javal-Fig-60_5369_NS1_5597.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Javal-Fig-60_5369_NSb_3520.png]\r\nI
    don't think there's much to be gained by detailed analysis of the measurements
    of Javal's specimen.\r\nFor the purposes of his argument, he was quite satisfied
    to consider the \"hauteur des lettres\" to be the nominal point size of the type.\r\nHowever,
    to this day there is still no standard, objective way of defining type size.\r\nThe
    problem is fundamental, as was discussed in a recent Typophile thread about the
    definition of the em.\r\nStill more recently, another thread discussed the design
    of \"small\" type, and the adjustments that type designers make to scale a style
    up or down (and by \"scale\" I don't mean in a strictly mechanical sense).\r\n\r\nThese
    are some of the things that may be modified:\r\n* x-height relative to cap height\r\n*
    descender length relative to x-height\r\n* serif width relative to stroke width\r\n*
    sidebearings relative to letter width\r\n* horizontal-to-vertical proportion of
    letter\r\n* size on the body (i.e. how close extenders come to the edge of the
    em)\r\n* contrast between thick and thin strokes\r\n* weight\r\n\r\nI don't think
    this is a longer list for the designer of digital type than for the punchcutter,
    it's just that considerations which were once absolute are now relative.\r\n\r\nThe
    amount of press gain in play (or anticipated) is hugely significant. A type which
    has an even scaling of weight, such that different sizes appear to be the same
    weight on coated stock, will, on uncoated stock, appear to be a heavier weight
    the smaller it gets. \r\n"
  created: '2009-07-20 17:28:25'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "The rule expressed by Javal is equivalent to saying that the width divided
    by the height of an \"m\" should increase as the point size decreases. Another
    way to say it is that if we scale all the \"m\" to the same height, the m width
    should increase as the point size decreases. I went to the library and took pictures
    of all the \"m\" from 14pt to 4 pt and scaled them proportionately so that they
    all be of the same height. Here is the result:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/11m_6493.jpg]\r\nI
    fail to see an increase in the width as the point size decreases.\r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2009-07-20 20:03:46'
- author:
    name: philippe_g
  body: I've got Javal's original, and if you look at it, you clearly see that it's
    not the same typeface used for all the sizes (I would say there are at least 4
    or 5 different typefaces here), so the inconsistencies in the cascade are not
    really surprising.
  created: '2009-07-20 20:26:24'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "It guess I should have taken the l height to scale. Here is what that gives.
    One can now see how the m (I guess the x height) grows, but for me that gives
    no convincing evidence for the law expressed by Javal.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/11lm_4251.jpg]\r\nMichel\r\n\r\nAdded
    remark: if the point size is proportional to the l height, then the law expressed
    by Javal  becomes (I guess) that the m width divided by the l height should increase
    as the point size decreases."
  created: '2009-07-20 21:42:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...the law expressed by Javal.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat law?\r\nHe made a general
    observation, with a single typeface (or several, as it transpires?!) as example.\r\nAnd
    his definitions of distance-- \"hauteur\", \"largeur\", and \"longeuer\"--are
    non-typographic with no mention of point size, x-height, letterspace, or picas.\r\nFurthermore,
    line-space (leading) is fudged by equalization.\r\n\r\nNonetheless, there is some
    truth in his observation, that display sizes tend to be more condensed than regular
    text, and micro-sizes expanded horizontally. \r\nHe attributes this to the demands
    of readability, however, my theory is that it is because in toto, there is more
    room for letter details to be heavied up in the vertical axis--which they must
    be when reduced in size, to avoid disappearing from sight-- by expanding into
    \"ascender space\", than along  the x axis. Therefore in the smaller sizes, extra
    proportional \"heft\" is accomodated in the vertical space of the type body, by
    increasing x-height, but that produces a condensed letter shape, so to maintain
    letter proportions, the character width is increased."
  created: '2009-07-20 23:03:08'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: "Re rules: I transcribed (by hand) the Compacte Typographie Chapter and translated
    it though BabelFish.\r\nI counted approximately 16 Rules which I agree are more
    like observations.\r\nJaval didn't list these observations in an easily accessible
    way but weaved them into the text.\r\nMost are to do with resemblance or quite
    obvious stuff as Nick listed a couple of posts up. I have diagramised the resemblance
    rules and complimented these with 'Grant and Legros'' and Weidmann's obsevations
    to be included in my essay.\r\n\r\nJavals observations: @Nick: Javals observation
    is a good one, it is a shame about the \"fraudulent\" figure that discounts his
    case!\r\n\r\nTypographic FAIL?"
  created: '2009-07-20 23:41:26'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: "@phillipe_g My copy unfortunately is a stereotype. =(\r\n\r\nHowever not
    *all* the fonts are different...\r\nThe top end of the scale sees 12 and 14pt
    from the same family (more Didot in appearance)\r\n13 pt is doing its own thing!
    It has the open gait in-between the legs of the m and quite wide p and q making
    the set alot wider.\r\n\r\nHowever from 11 to 4 pt looks like its the same font,
    and this is the focus of interest anyhow.\r\n\r\nEven though the figure in this
    instance is a bit of a mash-up. I hope to see other cascades and deconstruct some
    more punch-cutters intentions.\r\n\r\n/michael"
  created: '2009-07-20 23:46:08'
- author:
    name: philippe_g
  body: "I don't think you can say the figure is fraudulent : it is more than probable
    that the typefounder did not have all sizes in the same typeface, so Javal had
    to do with it. It was a common practice at the time to have to use a different
    typeface for each font size.\r\n\r\nConcerning how many typefaces there really
    are, I'll let you judge by yourself from this 1200dpi scan of my book:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/javal_fig60_1_5757.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/javal_fig60_2_6700.jpg]\r\nIt
    seems quite clear to me (judging from the a, the g as well as the y) that the
    fonts from 14pt to 11pt are all different. For the smaller sizes, it's more difficult
    to judge: some of the typefaces seem alike, but between the letters a, g, y, f/j
    and t, there's always one which is quite different."
  created: '2009-07-21 12:27:20'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Here is what happens with the font Computer Modern which has opticals for
    12, 10, 9, 8, 7, 6 and 5 points. The line corresponding to 4 points is obtained
    by scaling 12 point to 4 points. The blue line is thus where the lines would end
    if the the 12 pt font had been scaled instead of using the optical. I guess this
    is the kind of figure Javal hoped would appear in his book (if he was blind, he
    never saw how the figure came out).\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/computermodern_6415.jpg]\r\nMichel"
  created: '2009-07-22 02:18:59'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Well, I might be completely off the trail, but how was the original figure
    done? Was it actually typeset or engraved? It would be very hard to achieve the
    desired outcome in metal ... just a thought.
  created: '2009-07-22 03:04:32'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "The paragraph that comes before the figure is: \"Note that usual typographical
    characters don't give specimens that would come out if we simply scaled down the
    letters. Here is a series of types\". The figure was thus clearly typeset with
    available characters. I think Javal expected the available fonts would behave
    in such a way that when the lines are typeset with them, the right ends would
    make about the same curve as CM does here (of course, at 4 points, it was also
    an optical that was to be chosen). I don't know how many fonts were available
    at the time but it is my feeling the typesetter may have chosen the fonts to get
    a figure to his liking; he did not understand what Javal had in mind. Don't forget
    that Javal graduated in 1860 from <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/\xC9cole_nationale_sup\xE9rieure_des_mines_de_Paris\">Ecole
    des mines de Paris</a> before studying medicine. He had an excellent background
    in mathematics and physics.\r\n\r\nNote: the straight blue line corresponds to
    the imaginary line the reader would have traced from the end of the line at 14
    points to 0 points, at the bottom of the figure."
  created: '2009-07-22 11:57:12'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Here is a graphical representation of what I think Javal expected:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fig60_3958.jpg]"
  created: '2009-07-22 12:15:25'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: It is the line at 4 points in the scan that upset me. It seems to have been
    chosen so that the 0 aligns with the end of the 14pt line and I felt it was a
    cheat. Remove that line and the feeling left by the rest of the figure that appeared
    in the book it not that bad.
  created: '2009-07-22 12:29:33'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>It would be very hard to achieve the desired outcome in metal </cite>\r\n\r\nReally? "
  created: '2009-07-22 13:01:42'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Contrary to the sample in Javal's book where it seems the x height divided
    by the l height increased as the point size decreases, heights are kept fixed
    in CM. Here are F, x, f and g in 12, 10, 9, 8, 7, 6 and 5 points (just to better
    see what is involved in the above CM grab):\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CRMopticals_4884.jpg]\r\n\r\nEdit:
    I should of course have said \"Here are F, x, f and g in CMR12, CMR10, CMR9, CMR8,
    CMR7, CMR6 and CMR5.\""
  created: '2009-07-22 14:09:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...heights are kept fixed in CM. </em>\r\n\r\n...because two parameters,
    horizontal scaling and \"swell\" are varied with optical size in that typeface.\r\nIt
    is possible to also vary x-height and other parameters, using Superpolator, or
    by eye.\r\n\r\nIn CM, it looks like a mechanical interpolation.\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-22 14:44:12'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: "@paragraph\r\nare you asking asking if it is engraved because of the original
    transcript with the use of the phrase \"les graveurs\"? \r\nIt is likely that
    the Javal figure either way was made to approximate set type.\r\nI believe the
    irregularities have been valuable to fuel this discussion regardless of the figures
    manufacture.\r\nIt is leading and exposing us to other examples (most recently
    with CM) and other *known* intents by designers.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-22 16:45:03'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: "I was surprised to see Computer Modern used as an example! However upon reflection
    I realise that it is a great model to continue the argument because it forms an
    ideal to which to contrast against.\r\n\r\nWithout undermining the sophisticated
    algorithms used by Computer Modern, it is still (to me) a very single minded and
    inflexible approach which is insensitive to broader or task specific usage.\r\n\r\nThe
    original (Deberny) Javal (Fig.60) example is a more sophisticated model. (If we
    can assume that the figure *was* broadly the intention of the author)... Where
    we see a single arch in Computer Modern, in Fig 60 three arches can be seen which
    correspond to broadly accepted typographic usage's; Text, Footnote and Caption.\r\n\r\nI
    have an open agenda in promoting such a 'range' concept or 'size specific' design
    as I believe high quality typography comes out of such considered usage.\r\n\r\nMultiple
    approaches (non exclusive) have been revealed so far:\r\n\r\nA: CM - Design changes
    algorithymically where interpolation between a big and small size affects the
    with of a type to become wider the smaller it gets.\r\n\r\nB: Size Specific (Type
    I) - Litterally size specific with out attributed task. Each size has a slightly
    different design at the discretion of the punch cutter or designer seen with the
    18c Caslons (seen also in Miniscule (inspired by Javal/Dreyfuss experimental designs))
    without a specific task attributed to the design\r\n\r\nC: Size Specific (Type
    II) What I will call the AdobePro model (is there a more accurate term for this)
    which assigns a names use to a design.\r\n\r\nD: ??\r\n\r\nNote: I think it is
    worth mentioning for clarity for anyone new to this topic that what is not obvious
    until someone is made aware of the fact (was so in my case) that all the above
    conditions are in contrast to much of what exists in out digital type Library,
    which I can state confidently are types for the most part developed to work best
    at 9-12pt.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-22 17:13:29'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Here is a grab of a pdf produced by XeTeX using the Utopia Std opticals.
    The fontspec package chooses Display from 21 points above, Subhead from 20 to
    14 poionts, Regular from 13 to 8 and Caption from 8. I checked in Acrobat to be
    sure the point sizes and the fonts are as indicated and so they are. This is a
    font I use a lot for mathematics (with the Fourier package) and that I like.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/utopia_5201.jpg]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-23 03:45:48'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "I just found the FontShop <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fontlist/applications/optical_sizes/\"><strong>Optical
    Sizes</strong></a> link. It misses Kobayashi's <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/fontfont/ff_clifford/\">FF
    Clifford</a> (with FF Clifford Six) as well as Adobe fonts. The link nevertheless
    allows seeing that the widening of characters as font size decreases that Javal
    promotes during three pages in his book actually occurs with <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fontlist/families/eldorado/\">Eldorado</a>
    (with Eldorado Micro), <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fontlist/families/itc_bodoni/\">ITC
    Bodoni</a> (whith Bodoni Six), <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fontlist/families/mvb_sirenne/\">MVB
    Sirenne</a> (with Sirenne Six) and <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fontlist/families/times_new_roman/\">Times
    New Roman</a>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/timesnewroman_5380.jpg]\r\nwhere
    the middle font is called \"Times New Roman Seven\" and the top is \"Medium and
    Small Text\". \r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2009-08-03 13:34:35'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Just to add something to the discussion I have made a rough example of the
    waterfall with line-transport corresponding to the typesize (eg diminishing transport).
    It looks quite different, I think:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/waterfall_tryial_bert_6479.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nLess
    of a variance, right?\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-08-03 17:02:20'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "And here is Computer Modern set solid 10/10, 9/9, 8/8, 7/7, 6/6 and 5/5.
    \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cmscaled_4534.jpg]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-03 20:07:24'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "I added cmr17 and cmr12 to the picture. The text is still set solid, as above.
    The yellow lines are obtained by scaling. The first three lines are cmr17, the
    next three cmr12, the next two cmr10 and then cmr9, cmr8, cmr7, cmr6 and cmr5,
    always set solid. The scaling is always proportional, as usual; cmr17 scaled at
    15 points gives about the same length as cmr12 scaled at 14 points. We also see
    that cmr17 gives a shorter line than we would have expected from the rule of thumb
    we could have been tempted to induce from the above examples.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cmr5to17_6346.jpg]\r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2009-08-03 21:30:45'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "The more I look at the fit for sizes under 10 points with the CM font, the
    more I am surprised. If I rely on Haralambous 1993, <em>Parametrization of PostScript
    fonts through METAFONT \u2014 an alternative to Adobe Multiple Master fonts</em>
    (<a href=\"http://omega.enstb.org/yannis/pdf/epodd-93.pdf\">pdf, 552K</a>), sizes
    under 10 points are to be treated differently from those above 10 points. This
    thread being concerned with small sizes, we may just forget what happens above
    10 points. It is also said that, from the 62 parameters used to generate a CM
    font, two are relevant for this scaling, \"cap-stem\" and \"slab\", shown here.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/stemandslab_5159.jpg]\r\nOn
    page 155 (Section 7, optical scaling) Haralambous goes on to say:\r\n<dd>\r\nTo
    achieve optical scaling we will apply general rules (again quadratic approximations
    to known examples) to create distinct fonts for every point size. The task of
    making the necessary measurements has been done by D. E. Knuth on Monotype Modern
    8A (cf. [6, p. vi]). We will take his results and apply them to our case, since
    optical scaling coefficients have more to do with the properties of human vision
    than with the style of the font. \r\n</dd>\r\n\r\nJust for the record, those values
    are (cmr17 size being actually 17.28 points)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/parameters_3769.jpg]\r\n\r\nWhat
    I find surprising is that those values supposedly obtained after actual measurements
    have no direct obvious relationship with the line length. On the other hand, if
    all the lines in the grabs above end on the blue line, then that means that the
    length L(s) of the line at s points (for s less than 10) satisfies the formula
    L(s) = ms(s-1)+b where m and b are constants to be found by measurement. I wrote
    a XeLaTeX program that outputs the exact value of <strong>Length</strong> for
    each size <strong>s</strong> and then used Excel to find m and b (by linear regression
    of <strong>Length</strong> vs <strong>s(s-1)</strong> . \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/regression_3426.jpg]\r\nI
    get that the length <strong>Length</strong> at size s is 0.5427s(s-1)+71.5982
    with an error that is less than 1% in all cases but one, and less than a quarter
    of a percent in all cases but two.\r\n\r\n\r\nHow could such a precise relation
    (quadratic in the size s) hold for Monotype Modern 8A, or even for any CM family
    whose parameters would have been filled by inspection and measurement?\r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2009-08-05 01:50:00'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Haralambous' paper (<a href=\"http://cajun.cs.nott.ac.uk/compsci/epo/papers/volume6/issue3/ridt2.pdf\">pdf,
    341K</a>) is now to be found in <a href=\"http://cajun.cs.nott.ac.uk/compsci/epo/papers/epoddtoc.html\">EPODD</a>,
    Volume 6, Issue No. 3, September 1993, pp 145-158.\r\n"
  created: '2014-04-02 21:09:15'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Since in French, \"On\" is used to replace the passive voice, I would have
    been tempted to put \"It is seen that\" in place of \"We see\" or \"One sees\".
    But Jongseong's translation is accurate and insightful - beyond my limited knowledge
    of French.\r\n\r\nThe point seems to me to be this:\r\n\r\nthe old gravers, realizing
    (though not in a fully conscious manner) realized that legibility was lost, when
    letters were shrunk, principally through the reduction in the width of the letters.
    Therefore, they tried to retain as much legibility as they reasonably could in
    the smaller point sizes by (making them proportionally wider)/(shrinking them
    more slowly in that direction).\r\n\r\nGiven that, I'm not sure that the paraphrase
    presented by the original poster, where the viewer is presented as making an assumption
    of fully proportional shrinkage, and then revising it, makes the point clearer.
    It might, or it might make something more explicit that only distracts from the
    point."
  created: '2014-04-02 23:36:02'
- author:
    name: andrewavilla
  body: Nice post.
  created: '2014-04-04 02:49:54'
date: '2009-07-19 13:44:17'
title: French to English translation required for 1 paragraph about legibility

---
