---
author:
  name: jonathanhughes
body: "How do you deal with a client like this? \r\n\r\nI'm designing a CD cover for
  a friend, and after I sent him a sample, he immediately sent it out to everyone
  on his mailing list to ask for feedback. Then he tells me that \"a lot of people\"
  think the font should be bigger and the text should be moved down.\r\n\r\nThe font
  is exactly the right size. I didn't randomly select a type size. I know what I'm
  doing.\r\n\r\nAs far as its positioning on the cover, I guess that's a judgment
  call, but why would you ask a bunch of strangers where they think something on your
  CD should be placed???? He certainly wouldn't ask these people if they thought the
  guitars had an appropriate amount of distortion, or if the background vocals were
  loud enough.\r\n\r\nSo how do you politely tell a client like that that \"a lot
  of people\" don't know what they're talking about, and that there's a reason that
  designers are hired to design things? "
comments:
- author:
    name: Pieter van Rosmalen
    picture: 109564
  body: "Send your client a link of this topic will work\u2026\r\n\r\nPieter"
  created: '2009-07-20 15:25:05'
- author:
    name: begsini
    picture: 110929
  body: "<cite>why would you ask a bunch of strangers where they think something on
    your CD should be placed????</cite>\r\n\r\nIt's called a focus group."
  created: '2009-07-20 15:34:44'
- author:
    name: jonathanhughes
  body: "I guess I share Henry Ford's view on focus groups:\r\n\r\n\"\"If I had asked
    my customers what they wanted, they would have said faster horses.\""
  created: '2009-07-20 15:40:34'
- author:
    name: begsini
    picture: 110929
  body: "\r\nDesigners typically don't like focus groups, because they\r\nusually
    don't tell us what we want to hear.\r\n\r\nYou can either tell him you don't respect
    focus groups and\r\nwon't make those changes, or you can swallow your pride \r\nand
    try to satisfy your client. "
  created: '2009-07-20 17:17:51'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: "<em>I\u2019m designing a CD cover for a friend</em>\r\n\r\nFriends can be
    difficult clients, because friendship blurs the lines of professional conduct.
    Are you doing this work at a reduced fee (or no fee at all) because he's your
    friend? Some clients don't ascribe much value to work that they got free or cheap.
    \r\n\r\nIf this were just some jerk who found you on Craigslist, you could tell
    him, <em>If all these folks on your mailing list know so much about design, get
    one of them to design your freakin' CD!</em> But he's not some jerk, he's your
    friend, so maybe you'll say to him, <em>You know, I appreciate the feedback, but
    I had good practical reasons for making the choices I did. Let's go grab a couple
    of beers and I'll tell you what I mean.</em>\r\n\r\nOr maybe you'll let him change
    your design anyway, because in the long run you care more about his friendship
    than you do about this CD cover. It's the kind of choice you have to make sometimes
    when you do business with friends. "
  created: '2009-07-20 17:23:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...he immediately sent it out to everyone on his mailing list </em>\r\n\r\nIt's
    nice to know that he took the focus group seriously enough to print out all those
    high res color proofs, fold and trim them, slip them into jewel cases, and mail
    out.\r\n\r\nI'm guessing he didn't do that.\r\nSo perhaps your mistake was to
    send him a digital proof?\r\n\r\nSo make the type a quarter point larger and drop
    it a smidgeon, then get together with your buddy for a brew and a smoke to present
    the hard copy."
  created: '2009-07-20 17:44:37'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "Now I want to see the cover...\r\n\r\nIf he's your friend, be honest with
    him. That's the upside to friends as clients. If you have a reason for it, tell
    him the reason. If these people are as wrong as you say they are, then you should
    be able to convince him, or at least present him with a cogent reason why you
    disagree. Ask him why they want it bigger. Is it because it actually looks better
    to them or because they think it was hard to read? And how did he present it to
    them? A tiny screen image or a full-size printout? Also, what did he ask them?
    If he asked them \"what do you think?\" he'll get a different response than if
    he asks \"would you buy this?\" \r\n\r\nUse this as a chance to draw him into
    the process and help him understand why you're good at what you do and why your
    decisions make sense. If you treat this as the first shot in an argument, it will
    be exactly that.\r\n\r\nI believe you can tell a client that you disagree and
    want to discuss it further. It doesn't mean you won't do it if they insist. But
    they are paying you/ trusting you to use your judgement as a skilled professional.
    Pushing back is part of that process."
  created: '2009-07-20 17:53:33'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: "you probably don't want to hear this if you're set in your design (as you
    sound like you are), you could just change the font. \r\n\r\ni'm not sure exactly
    what you mean by the right size, but if, like a lot of designs, that is determined
    by the horizontal space on the paper, between two rules that you have created
    as part of a layout, perhaps finding a font with a larger x-height will satisfy
    you and the client's concerns simultaneously. "
  created: '2009-07-20 20:07:50'
- author:
    name: James Deux
  body: "<cite>Designers typically don\u2019t like focus groups, because they\r\nusually
    don\u2019t tell us what we want to hear.</cite>\r\n\r\nSocial scientists don't
    like them either, I'm happy to say. They suck though if that's what your supervisors
    want you to facilitate. :("
  created: '2009-07-20 21:36:10'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Send the songs on the CD to your friends and forward their feedback to the
    client.\r\n\r\nThat should do the trick.\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-07-20 22:09:45'
- author:
    name: ofisia
    picture: 128351
  body: I'm tracking this thread.
  created: '2009-07-21 17:16:11'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>Send the songs on the CD to your friends and forward their feedback to
    the client.</em>\r\n\r\nBrilliant! :-)"
  created: '2009-07-21 17:53:22'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: "<cite> How do you deal with a client like this? ... I\u2019m designing a
    CD cover for a friend</cite>\r\n\r\nIs this for a friend or a client?"
  created: '2009-07-21 19:02:24'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "<em>Send the songs on the CD to your friends and forward their feedback to
    the client.</em>\r\n\r\nHahahaha .. this is cunningly smart and funny."
  created: '2009-07-21 21:31:40'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: ">   \u201Ca lot of people\u201D think the font should be bigger\r\n\r\nwell,
    they probably want to actually read the words,\r\nand don't realize that the design
    is more important.\r\n\r\nthat's why real designers always use lorem ipsum...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-21 23:16:27'
- author:
    name: Caleb Ramsey
  body: "Nick Shinn gave some good advice there. \r\n\r\nI listen to the client. They
    are responsible for paying for printing, getting albums distributed, blah blah
    blah, and the huge loss if these people don't buy them. It would be to their benefit
    to look good. They just did a small demographic study. People pay for that information.
    You should buy him a beer. He made your job easier. Now, if things don't work
    the friend has only himself to blame for running a poor demographic study. \r\n\r\nIf
    your design idea is better show them the design they asked for and then a design
    that you think is good they will see that your solution is best. I would provide
    4 more solutions at least. I am assuming you are getting paid here or that you
    care enough about the client to satisfy them. Then, have him do the same demographic
    study. You need a contract that stipulates you have the rights to all work until
    payment is made otherwise they just got 5 new covers. "
  created: '2009-07-22 01:03:36'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> I\u2019m tracking this thread.\r\n\r\nAnd why do you think it is important
    that we know this? I track a lot of threads, and to this point have managed to
    not post messages telling everyone.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-22 13:46:14'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: 'Don: if you do post a message like this in the thread, you can use "My Account/Track"
    to find them later, see?'
  created: '2009-07-22 13:51:26'
- author:
    name: jonathanhughes
  body: "Thanks for the input, everyone. There was some valuable stuff here, not just
    for this specific situation, but others, as well.\r\n\r\nI would disagree that
    focus groups or demographic studies are useful for a project like this (see my
    Henry Ford quote above). If it were a product that was dependent on being eye-catching,
    it might be useful, but (and maybe I should've stated this in the original post),
    this isn't a major label artist, so it's not going to be in record stores (record
    store? what's that?). Getting input of people whose opinions you trust is one
    thing, but asking random strangers and then trying to please them just leads to
    mediocrity. Plus, if the feedback was based more on whether the design was appropriate
    for the musician, rather than the trite \"make it bigger,\" I'd take it more seriously.\r\n\r\nSure,
    there are instances where you're just paid to do a job, and it makes sense to
    go with the flow and collect your check. But I'm a firm believer in trusting the
    people you hire to do what you've hired them to do. If you don't like what they
    do, do it yourself, or get someone else to do it.\r\n\r\nI love Bert's suggestion!\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    back to the situation:\r\n\r\nI took some of the advice found here, told him that
    the type size was not randomly selected, and that it was made that size for several
    reasons. I also pointed out that the response he received (i.e. \"make it bigger\")
    is what everyone always says, and that it's probably safe to assume that the response
    comes without taking into account other factors. Plus, if everything were as big
    as what everyone wanted, well, EVERYTHING would be REALLY big. He agreed, and
    the cover looks really nice (it's just a close-up photo of his face, with the
    text flush right (the CD title set in one weight of DIN and his name in a heavier
    weight of DIN)."
  created: '2009-07-22 15:55:58'
- author:
    name: Kirs10
  body: I had a situation once with my Father as the client. He needed a map and other
    graphics for his company website. With each revision he kept asking me to make
    the map and text bigger. I kept advising against it but it's my Dad so I ultimately
    made the changes he wanted. Finally I asked what size monitor he had, at the time
    mine was 20", and I couldn't make the image any larger with out having to scroll.
    He said he wasn't looking at it on the computer, he had someone in the office
    print it out for him. Turns out they chose scale to fit and printed it on 8.5
    x 11 paper. When he looked at it on line he said oh that's way too big. After
    gritting my teeth and holding back the I told you so, we had a good laugh.
  created: '2009-07-22 16:37:07'
- author:
    name: begsini
    picture: 110929
  body: "@jonathan\r\n\r\nI don't think you can compare the entrepreneurial vision
    of a genius (Henry Ford) to the size of type on a CD cover. There are very, very
    few consumers who can articulate their unmet needs and desires, or envision new
    technology and its applications. Pretty much everybody can look at a CD cover
    and say whether they would like the font bigger or smaller. \r\n\r\nOn a more
    philosophical note, if the preferences of one's whole audience differs from the
    designer's idea of \"good\" design, is the design still good?"
  created: '2009-07-22 18:07:46'
- author:
    name: E.Jacobson
    picture: 114464
  body: "Many good points.\r\n\r\n\r\n\"Make it Bigger\" is always a tough one. It
    may mean, \"There is a legibility issue\" but it can also mean, \"I need to have
    an opinion and all I have to go off is what I think I know about advertising.\"\r\n\r\nIf
    it's free work you are providing, my creed is you get what I think looks good.
    I will take your feedback into consideration but that's really where it stops.
    I have abandoned projects altogether that turned into too much hassle and heartbreak
    over terrible suggestions. \r\n\r\nIf you are charging, then give him what he
    wants but explain your disapproval of the amendment. If you can intelligently
    justify your reasoning then he will respect your educated decisions over the uneducated
    criticisms of the vulgar masses. Focus groups are not a bad idea, but learning
    to decipher them is more important.\r\n\r\nI always base my defense on Appropriateness.
    \"Sure the text is small, but this is a CD not an advertisement for a Day Spa.
    CD artwork follows its own rules.\"\r\n\r\n@begsini:\r\nGood design is a contextually
    dependent wormhole of a philosophical debate. Challenging/Appropriate/Obvious/Boring.
    In that order. What we should seek is to blur the line between Challenging and
    Appropriate. Tibor Kalman was challenging, but from a marketing standpoint, a
    failure. United Colors was still good design though. "
  created: '2009-07-22 18:26:57'
- body: "Here's what we need. Seriously, it will solve all our problems:\r\n\r\n[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qgcX0y1Nzhs|Make
    My Logo Bigger Cream]]"
  created: '2009-07-23 21:54:28'
- author:
    name: Kirs10
  body: LOL, that was great!
  created: '2009-07-23 23:43:24'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "kirsten said:\r\n>   Turns out they chose scale to fit and printed it on
    8.5 x 11 paper.\r\n\r\nand your dad undoubtedly kept wondering why \r\nyou would
    never make it bigger like he'd asked...       :+)\r\n\r\nthat's a good one.  i'll
    remember that one.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\np.s.  i'd really love to see this
    c.d. when it's done, so i can make the\r\nfinal-and-absolute-really-i-mean-the-real-deal-decision
    about\r\nwhether that type needs to be bigger or not...\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-24 05:44:48'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: "I empathize with anyone in this situation. I did some logos for my father's
    remodeling business. The one that was most appropriate to his intended wealthy
    audience, he didn't choose because of a number of \"problems\" he saw--all of
    which I addressed and rationalized. Then he said his wife didn't like it--ohhhh
    the clients wife!\r\n\r\nI came to find out a year later from her that she never
    wanted to get involved, but that this particular concept was her favorite--turns
    out he just thought it was too feminine. (Which he never told me, but that type
    of criticism there's not much you can do about, so I could have moved on to other
    concepts MUCH earlier)."
  created: '2009-07-24 14:05:14'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: 'I think we''ve all been in similar situations. It does strike me as odd though
    that no one here actually thought of doing a demographic study yourself. I''m
    not talking about Bert''s advice (which btw I loved), but posting the cover on
    a site like typophile & get ''educated'' feedback. That could help you convince
    your friend/client better than arguing over what''s more important: having a design
    that looks good or meeting the focus group''s expectations.'
  created: '2009-07-24 17:01:11'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "evanbrog said:\r\n>   turns out he just thought it was too feminine\r\n\r\nbut
    he attributed it to someone else,\r\nso he wouldn't have to take the hit\r\nfor
    telling you he himself didn't like it.\r\n\r\ni suspect that the friend/client
    with the\r\nc.d. cover is doing the very same thing.\r\nhe says \"other people
    think that\" the type\r\nshould be bigger, and placed differently,\r\nbecause
    that is what _he_ wants done...\r\n\r\nso do it for him, and make the guy happy.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-26 07:42:34'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"On a more philosophical note, if the preferences of one\u2019s whole audience
    differs from the designer\u2019s idea of \u201Cgood\u201D design, is the design
    still good?\"\r\n\r\nFocus groups lead to this:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/800px-the_homer_by_carlos_bisquertt_4942.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
    think bleachmilk's advice is spot on: \"If it\u2019s free work you are providing,
    my creed is you get what I think looks good.\""
  created: '2009-07-26 08:01:04'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "does someone have a picture of\r\nthe camel that was designed by\r\nthe committee?\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-26 21:45:33'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: "Here you go, bird.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/camel_3717.jpg]"
  created: '2009-07-26 22:10:01'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "that wasn't designed by no committee...\r\nthat was designed by a savvy ad
    agency.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-27 01:55:20'
- author:
    name: "Tor L\xF8vskogen Bollingmo"
    picture: 114582
  body: A camel is a horse designed by committee. "It need more humps!"
  created: '2009-07-27 10:33:25'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: I think Homer Simpson was rather forward-thinking when he designed "The Homer."
    Lots of space? Entertainment system to distract the kids? Oversized cupholders?
    Terrible gas mileage? Sounds like Homer inadvertently invented the modern SUV.
  created: '2009-07-27 17:34:20'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Hey, I just realize that one of my messages in this thread was deleted. anybody
    know why and how?\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2009-07-28 08:41:16'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Bear in mind too that the people he sent it too may have been casting about
    for something to say, to appear useful. \"Make it bigger\" is an easy one. It
    might be interesting for you to see the email he actually sent and whether his
    language steered the comments a certain way. As in \"here's the design for my
    CD, do you think the type is big enough?\" would get the make it bigger comment.
    If it was a neutral \"what do you think?\" then the comments might carry more
    weight, so to speak.\r\n\r\nAlso, your comment: \"the type is the right size\"
    is exactly the wrong approach to take with your client and will likely just piss
    him off. Whoever suggested following his advice and showing him the bigger type
    along with the original had the right idea. When I present a revised pdf, I always
    include the original for comparison, especially if I want them to see it's better.\r\n\r\nWow
    I haven't seen the dickhead camel in a LONG time."
  created: '2009-07-30 21:09:57'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: David it might have been me that deleted it. :/ There was also a spam comment
    and I was distracted as I was moderating. (Yes, I know that sounds insane.)
  created: '2009-07-31 00:35:22'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: 'If you don''t follow Sabine Lenz (of the [[http://www.paperspecs.com/mainblog/|Paper
    Specs blog]]) on LinkedIn, you missed her Daily Update for July 31, which says:
    <em>Design Tip: One of the most important to do--ask someone who knows little
    or nothing about your business to give their critique.</em> Apparently Jonathan''s
    client has at least one supporter.'
  created: '2009-07-31 14:52:11'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: "Focus groups are great if you're appealing to the masses. For an independent
    CD not so much. \r\n\r\nMany years ago the band I was playing in recorded an album.
    We asked the person mixing it if we could sit in and give our advice. Against
    their better judgement they let us. Each person in the band wanted their instrument
    louder. The engineer tried to explain why this wasn't a good idea, but everyone
    insisted. The result was a terrible sounding mix."
  created: '2009-07-31 17:25:19'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: ">   Each person in the band wanted their instrument louder.\r\n\r\nchris,
    just a guess, but i'm guessing your band didn't last very long.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-31 22:51:41'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: Bowerbird, thx. That made me laugh. How could you guess. It was fun though
    while it lasted.
  created: '2009-08-01 02:30:28'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I used to produce records and play in bands.\r\n\r\nI remember playing a
    great mix super loud over incredible speakers (that's a good trick when you're
    playing back mixes to a band) and the drummer saying \"where's the tambourine?\".
    The tambourine was meaningless in the context of the song and not played very
    well at that. Everyone else loved it. Musicians can only hear themselves for some
    ego-based reason.\r\n\r\nBeing in a band is like being a polygamist, except you
    don't get the usual advantage of dominating those you are married to.\r\n\r\nGlad
    I did it, glad I'm done.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2009-08-01 07:06:52'
date: '2009-07-20 15:18:15'
title: How do you deal with a client like this?

---
