---
author:
  name: James Deux
body: "The most peculiar thing happened to me this past May. \r\n\r\nI was reading
  Brad Land's <cite>Goat: a memoir</cite>, an autobiographical entry about Mr. Land's
  experience with the Kappa Alpha fraternity at Clemson University. Interesting and
  engaging. Unique style of writing as well.\r\n\r\nBut what was the most interesting
  part of the book was when after I turned the final page, to my surprise I found
  a page that discussed and explained the choice of type! The choice was Sabon, and
  it was a tiny little paragraph explaining  the type, as well the reason it was used.
  \ For the highly curious: I have the book. I can scan in the spread if you desire.\r\n\r\nCan
  anyone here fathom why this was done? I'd actually like to see it more often, as
  I found it interesting, and a great way to expose the layperson to type. But it's
  the first\u2014and only time\u2014I've seen such attention given to the choice of
  typeface. "
comments:
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: I've seen a short introduction to the type used at the end of the book. Could
    be the same publishers, because if my memory serves me right, it was Sabon, too.
    Designer's name, the history of the typeface etc. I think it's a wonderful idea
    and might make the non-typophiles to think about type a bit.
  created: '2009-07-20 21:51:33'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: it's called a [[colophon]].
  created: '2009-07-20 21:52:20'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: That's called a colophon, and they've been around in one form or another for
    hundreds of years. You see them nowadays on those books--all too rare--that are
    so well-made that their designers and printers want to put their names on them.
  created: '2009-07-20 21:57:15'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: I've seen colophons before but having a full history of the typeface is unusual,
    no?
  created: '2009-07-20 22:02:00'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Makes the designer look sophisticated (although Sabon is a quite nondescript
    choice).\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-07-20 22:07:59'
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Colophon_(publishing)
  created: '2009-07-20 23:03:38'
- author:
    name: James Deux
  body: Quite interesting. Thank you.
  created: '2009-07-20 23:18:38'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "Often the use of colophons in 20th-century American books is credited to
    book and type designer William Addison Dwiggins (WAD). Among large American publishers,
    the house of Alfred Knopf has most frequently included colophons in their books,
    with info about the type, the name of the book designer, and the name of the printing
    company.\r\n\r\nBut if you want to see some colophons, go to a library that has
    a good collection of American \"fine printing\" of the 60s, 70s, 80s. Colophons
    in these books often ramble on, telling who made the paper, who designed and cut
    and cast the type, who set the type, what press the book was printed on, when
    the press was made, what the weather was like, when the cat died. On and on. &
    I'm not joking about the cat; I cannot recall book or publisher, but the colophon
    told about the cat's passing. Some are like short stories. Some are pretentious
    as hell. Some have useful info.\r\n\r\n*******\r\nIn our era, when everyone has
    or \"knows about\" \"fonts,\" more people are taking notice at least of typeface
    mention in colophons.\r\n\r\nAt this press, we put colophons in most of our books.
    This helps our freelance designers get their names out into the world, and thus
    get more jobs. I can attest that happens. It also allows, us when appropriate,
    to note anything special about the paper we use.\r\n\r\nMany people think colophons
    are pretentious, glorifying matters no one cares about. I feel they help acknowledge
    good work.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2009-07-21 14:45:04'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "I like to see them, though as Victor says, they aren't as common as one might
    like. I seem to remember that they're quite detailed in the backs of some O'Reilly
    computer books (I have several at home but can't check as I'm at work!), detailing
    both the fonts and the editing/layout packages used...\r\n________________________________________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2009-07-21 15:04:55'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "The old Adobe PostScript manuals (the famous \"Red\", \"Green\", and \"Blue\"
    books) and the huge PostScript Reference had nice colophons.\r\nIt introduced
    itself by explaining the term 'colophon', and went on (and on) with a list of
    software, fonts, and hardware used to produce the books.\r\n\r\nFrom the Blue
    book:\r\n\r\n\"Camera-ready copy for this book was created entirely with POSTSCRIPT
    and printed on a Linotron 101 at Adobe Systems Incorporated. The book was created
    with the aid of the Scribe Document Production System (a product of UNILOGIC,
    Ltd.) as a Scribe document definition. The illustrations were POSTSCRIPT program
    segments which Scribe integrated and placed on the pages along with the formatted
    text portions.\"\r\n\r\n[etc. etc.]"
  created: '2009-07-21 16:49:56'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: I am rarely able to convince a publisher who does not normally include full
    colophons to do so, but I am sometimes successful in getting a credit/mention
    for the typeface included on a copyright page along with other credit information.
    I know some others do the same. So those readers who are curious might also develop
    a habit of looking there as well.
  created: '2009-07-21 17:17:07'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: I like those copyright page mentions, too. A Virago book I'm currently reading
    states "Typeset by M Rules in Caslon".
  created: '2009-07-21 17:29:55'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Here are a few ones from my computer science books\r\n<dl><dt>1978</dt>\r\n<dd>This
    book was typeset in Times Roman and Courier 12 by the authors,using a Graphic
    Systems phototypesetter driven by a PDP-11/70 under the UNIX operating system.</dd>\r\n<dt>1984</dt>\r\n<dd>This
    book was typeset in Times Roman and Courier by the authors, using a Mergenthaler
    Linotron 202 typesetter driven by a VAX-11/750 running in the 8th Edition of the
    UNIX operating system.</dd>\r\n<dt>1999</dt>\r\n<dd>This book was typeset (<code>grap|pic|tbl|eqn|troff
    -mpm</code>) in Times and Lucida Sans Typewriter by the authors.</dd></dl>\r\nBut,
    in the meantime, TeX was supplanting troff. I find this one quite interesting:\r\n<dl><dt>1986</dt>\r\n<dd>This
    book was set in TeX by Sarah Fliegelmann at the Weizmann Institute of Science
    and printed and bound by The MIT Press in the United States of America.</dd></dl>\r\n\r\nOf
    course, useless to say that the Weizmann Institute is in Israel and that the font
    is Computer Modern. Though shouldst know!\r\n\r\nMichel\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-21 18:13:41'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "<<  \u201CTypeset by M Rules in Caslon\u201D.  >>\r\n\r\nTo which I would
    ask \"WHICH Caslon?\"\r\n\r\nI see colophons that list such things as \"A Garamond\"
    or \"Dante MT.\" We here at Typophile may well know what \"A\" means in this context,
    and what \"MT\" means. But the general reader does not, and will likely not go
    to the trouble to dig up that info. These sort of attributions give readers both
    too much info and not enough info, all at the same time.\r\n\r\n******\r\nLet
    me add to my earlier post: in our colophons we give the typeface name and almost
    always the name of the typeface designer. I think it has helped draw some attention
    to new types (which we try diligently to use).\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2009-07-21 18:19:06'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "here's the colophon from \"the elements of typographic style\":\r\n\r\n>
    \  this book was designed by robert bringhurst.\r\n>   it was edited and set into
    type in canada,\r\n>   then printed and bound by c&c in hong kong.\r\n>   \r\n>
    \  the text face is minion pro, designed by robert slimbach.\r\n>   this is an
    enlargement and revision of slimbach's original minion type\r\n>   issued by adobe
    systems, mountain view, california, in 1969.\r\n>   \r\n>   the captions are set
    in scala sans, part of a family of type\r\n>   designed in the netherlands by
    martin majoor.  the face was issued\r\n>   by fontshop international, berlin,
    and its affiliates in 1994.\r\n>   \r\n>   the paper is glatfelter laid, made\r\n>
    \  at the spring grove mill in pennsylvania.\r\n>   it is of archival quality
    and acid-free.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-21 23:08:54'
- author:
    name: gillo
    picture: 113901
  body: "Harry Potter books (Hard-covered North American ones at least) have colophons
    too. From The Half-Blood Prince: \r\n\r\n\"This book was art directed by David
    Saylor. The art for both the jacket and the interior was created using pastels
    on toned printmaking paper. The text was set in 12-point Adobe Garamond, a typeface
    based on the sixteenth-century type designs of Claude Garamond, redrawn by Robert
    Slimbach in 1989. The book was typeset by Brad Walrod and was printed and bound
    at RR Donnelly in Harrisonburg, Virgina, on paper that is free from fiber from
    ancient forests. The managing Editor was Karyn Browne; the Continuity Editor was
    Cheryl Klein; and the Manufacturing Director was Angela Biola.\""
  created: '2009-07-21 23:11:15'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>here\u2019s the colophon from \u201Cthe elements of typographic style\u201D:</cite>\r\n\r\nIndeed.
    That colophon is great, as is the book."
  created: '2009-07-21 23:14:41'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "In Latin America we have the opposite situation: almost every book has a
    colophon, and naming the typeface is a growing practice. Most of them are not
    very special, but some are masterpieces. \r\n\r\nHere is a curious example by
    Selva Hern\xE1ndez and Jos\xE9 Luis Lugo. The LM is because the book talks about
    Leopoldo M\xE9ndez, one of the finest Mexican engravers of twentieth century.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/LM_5222.jpg]"
  created: '2009-07-21 23:26:00'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "A colophon that is quite informational about a font and that also feels personal
    is the one in  Lawson's book (copyright 1990):\r\n\r\n<strong>Anatomy of a Typeface</strong>
    was set in Galliard, a typeface designed by Matthew Carter and introduced in 1978
    by the Mergenthaler Linotype Company. Based on the types created by Robert Granjon
    in the sixteenth century, Galliard is the first of its genre to be designed exclusively
    for phototypesetting. A type of solid weight, it possesses an authentic sparkle
    that is lacking from current Garamonds. The italic is particularly felicitous
    and reaches back to the feeling of the chancery style, from which Claude Garamond's
    italic departed.\r\n\r\nI don't know if what follows is to be considered part
    of the colophon or not (set in italics).\r\n\r\n<cite>Printed by the Maple-Vail
    Book Manufacturing Group, Binghamton, New York, on Glatfelter Offset Smooth Eggshell.</cite>\r\n\r\nMichel\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-21 23:58:44'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: A friend of mine sent me a copy, back in the nineties, of an article by Bruce
    McCall in <em>The New Yorker</em> called "About the Font". It was sort of making
    fun of colophons, but very funny. It was written as an unusually long and detailed
    colophon that told you way more than you ever wanted to know. I wish I knew what
    I did with it.
  created: '2009-07-22 00:06:15'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Does Knopf still put colophons in every book it prints?
  created: '2009-07-22 00:23:44'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Mark, did it say that it was set in "Bimbo Monotone"? I remember a funny one
    like that, that went on to say about the making of the paper something along the
    lines of "whole forests were leveled, and thousands of little furry animals lost
    their homes".
  created: '2009-07-22 00:47:30'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > here\u2019s the colophon from \u201Cthe elements of typographic
    style\u201D:</cite>\r\n\r\nExcept that in the original book capitals were included
    in the normally expected places.\r\n\r\n@James -- I think that Knopf does indeed
    still include a colophon with every title."
  created: '2009-07-22 00:54:40'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: '@paragraph: Yes, I think I remember those references.'
  created: '2009-07-22 04:08:32'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>It was sort of making fun of colophons, but very funny. It was written
    as an unusually long and detailed colophon that told you way more than you ever
    wanted to know.</em>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Mans-Book-Essential-Guide-Modern/dp/0316033642/ref=pd_sim_b_2\">This
    book</a>, believe it or not, has an extremely detailed colophon. It's almost a
    parody of a colophon: the author starts off saying that he designed the book himself
    (\"He is a man!\"), and then goes into extreme detail about the typeface, page
    layout software, and book design theory as well (with diagrams!).\r\n\r\n[EDIT]
    Mark, I found an abstract of the Bruce McCall article <a href=\"http://www.newyorker.com/archive/1997/10/06/1997_10_06_128_TNY_CARDS_000379294\">here</a>."
  created: '2009-07-22 04:21:09'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Yes, that's the article. Thanks!
  created: '2009-07-22 05:13:55'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "kentlew said:\r\n>   Except that in the original book \r\n>   capitals were
    included \r\n>   in the normally expected places.\r\n\r\nyeah, except for that...
    \           ;+)\r\n\r\nbobbie bringhurst had on his typographer hat at the time\r\n--
    you know, the funny one that looks kinda like a boat,\r\nfolded out of newspaper
    -- instead of his poet beret...\r\n\r\nbut i rescued him from respectability and
    whisked him\r\nto lowercaseland, the second-happiest place on earth.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-22 10:04:45'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "several things:\r\n\r\nColophons in Latin America may be a legacy of Spanish
    colonial laws that required the printer be named in all printed books. This was
    not to give credit where credit was due, but was one more way for authorities
    to try to keep track of who was writing what. I'm not sure how long these laws
    were in place in which countries, but I'm fairly sure of the origin. maybe some
    of our friends in Latin America can help us. \r\n\r\nBimbo Monotone was featured
    in a colophon written by the one-and-only Alastair Johnston of Poltroon Press
    in Berkeley. I do not know the book in which it appeared. I have it taped to te
    back of office door. In the cool months I see it every day as I hang up my jacket
    in the morning and again as I leave at night. It is a good reminder to take very
    little seriously.\r\n\r\nKnopf still puts a colophon in most of its books.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2009-07-22 13:55:20'
- author:
    name: James Deux
  body: "<cite>\u201CThis book was art directed by David Saylor. The art for both
    the jacket and the interior was created using pastels on toned printmaking paper.
    The text was set in 12-point Adobe Garamond, a typeface based on the sixteenth-century
    type designs of Claude Garamond, redrawn by Robert Slimbach in 1989. The book
    was typeset by Brad Walrod and was printed and bound at RR Donnelly in Harrisonburg,
    Virgina, on paper that is free from fiber from ancient forests. The managing Editor
    was Karyn Browne; the Continuity Editor was Cheryl Klein; and the Manufacturing
    Director was Angela Biola.\u201D</i>\r\n\r\nWHAT?! I never noticed this! And unfortunately,
    I left my entire series back home. :(\r\n\r\nI will have to make it a note to
    check these in the library. Thank you for the tip. "
  created: '2009-07-22 14:45:05'
- author:
    name: Artboy34
    picture: 115388
  body: "\"It is a good reminder to take very little seriously.\"\r\n\r\nWell said,
    Will. A printing rep once told me of a client whose response to her apology for
    a late deadline was, \"Well, we're not doing brain surgery here; no lives were
    lost because of a day or two.\" \r\n\r\nOh, that there were more clients with
    <strong>that</strong> perspective...\r\n\r\nMartin Bentley Krebs\r\nDesignosaur
    since 1980"
  created: '2009-07-22 14:46:56'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "in full:\r\n\r\n\"This book is set in 12-point Monotone Bimbo, with chapter
    headings in Basketball Overextended. Both faces were designed by the great Adolf
    Pfl\xFCpfl and are characterized by noble, full-bodied proportions with complex,
    slightly fruity serifs. It was printed by upset lithophagy on 70-lb. Tropicana
    Ivory mislaid Cowabunga Slipshod Overcoat. The ink came out of a can.\r\n\r\n\u2022\r\n\r\nThis
    paper is 100% unrecycled. Whole forests were leveled, thousands of small furry
    animals left homeless, and vast virgin landscapes devastated, to make this book.\"\r\n\r\nNow
    THAT's a colophon!\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2009-07-22 15:26:34'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: the above colophon is from <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Science_Made_Stupid"><em>Science
    Made Stupid</em></a> by Tom Weller.
  created: '2009-07-22 18:12:33'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "OOOOOOPS!\r\n\r\nPaul made me check on the authorship of that colophon. I
    asked Alastair. He says he did not do it. Must have been Weller himself. Both
    are witty Bay Area jokesters.\r\n\r\nI thought I had gotten the copy of the colophon
    from Alastair, so I assumed he had written it. Oh, well.\r\n\r\n\"Science Made
    Stupid\" and its companion \"Cvltvre Made Stvpid\" are excellent antidotes for
    taking things too seriously. \r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2009-07-22 18:46:55'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I am really happy that I can include the typeface information in the books
    I do. However, we don't do a formal colophone, but we listed the fonts, foundries,
    and designers on the copyright page.
  created: '2009-07-22 23:37:57'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Thanks, Will. I shall never lose this gem again.
  created: '2009-07-23 00:51:23'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "tom weller said:\r\n>   Monotone Bimbo\r\n\r\ntoo funny.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   The
    ink came out of a can.\r\n\r\ntoo too funny.       :+)\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-23 08:07:48'
- author:
    name: jb_tubman
    picture: 114559
  body: "O\u2019Reilly Media Inc., the computer book publisher, puts colophons in
    its books. I grabbed the one closest to me at the moment (<em>Twisted Network
    Programming Essentials</em> by Abe Fettig) and found that its colophon was two
    pages long.\r\n\r\nThat particular colophon described the picture on the cover
    (an engraving of a ball of snakes in a mating frenzy), including a lot of biological
    details that would appeal more to a herpetologist than an computer scientist.
    It then listed the production editor, copy editor, proofreader, quality control
    staff, index writer, cover designer, cover design software, and cover typeface.
    It then went on to list the interior designer, text font, heading font, and code
    font; then the illustration artists and the software they used. Finally it named
    the author of the colophon itself.\r\n\r\nAbout all they seemed to leave out was
    the blood types and shoe sizes of the people involved. :-)\r\n\r\nJim Tubman\r\nCalgary,
    Alberta, Canada\r\n\"The Stampede City\""
  created: '2009-08-01 23:14:41'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "On a related note, do designers get annoyed by type licenses that require
    the designer to list a typeface on the copyright page of a book if it doesn\u2019t
    have a colophon?"
  created: '2009-08-01 23:19:09'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I love the Colophon! At the publisher I used to work for, we didn't do a
    formal colophon but we always credited the designer, typesetter (if separate),
    editor, production editor, and production manager. We also listed the fonts but
    that was a practical consideration. Often the book was reprinted many years later
    and it was a useful reference for what font(s) had been used.\r\n\r\nI have never
    noticed a license that requires the designer to list the font, that seems like
    chutzpah to me. OTOH I don't read most licenses to the letter (sorry Tiff!). "
  created: '2009-08-03 15:46:21'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite>You agree to identify the Emigre fonts by name and credit Emigre's
    ownership of the trademarks and copyrights in any design or production credits.</cite>
    \u2014 <a href=\"http://www.emigre.com/EULOptions.php\">Emigre</a>\r\n\r\n<cite>The
    user of this House Industries font software agrees to credit House Industries
    as the trademark and copyright owner of the House Industries fonts and list the
    font names, wherever and whenever design, production, or any other credits are
    shown.</cite> \u2014 <a href=\"http://www.houseind.com/fonts/licensing/eula\">House
    Industries</a> (<a href=\"http://www.letterror.com/catalog/fontlicense.html\">Letterror</a>
    uses the same phrase)\r\n\r\n<cite>If your printed publications contain an imprint,
    the names of the font and the foundry have to be mentioned, e.g. \u2018Type set
    in \u201CFontname\u201D from LucasFonts\u2019.</cite> \u2014 <a href=\"http://www.lucasfonts.com/support/license-agreement/\">LucasFonts</a>\r\n\r\nIMHO,
    these clauses are rather wishful thinking. I wouldn\u2019t take them too serious.
    At least, I haven\u2019t heard of a case where this claim was enforced. <em>If</em>
    there is a colophon, I will gladly mention the fonts and give credit to the type
    designer \u2013 irrespective if the EULA asks for it or not."
  created: '2009-08-03 16:33:50'
- author:
    name: "Tor L\xF8vskogen Bollingmo"
    picture: 114582
  body: James Deux, did you scan the colophon? Would be nice to have a look. Cheers
  created: '2009-08-03 20:50:00'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite> [...] in any design or production credits [Emigre]\r\n[...] wherever
    and whenever design, production, or any other credits are shown [House Industries]\r\n[...]
    If your printed publications contain an imprint [...] [LucasFonts]\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nThat
    means that <strong>if</strong> there is a colophon <strong>then</strong> you should
    not forget to mention their font in it. That makes sense. There is no requirement
    that there be a colophon.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-03 21:55:19'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "After previously saying I'd never seen a font note in a colophon, I came
    across this the other day:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ElectraColophon_6354.gif](from
    <cite>Made to Stick: Why some ideas take hold and others come unstuck</cite> by
    Chip and Dan Heath.)\r\n\r\nThe font gets a page of its own, separate from the
    colophon.\r\n\r\nDoes Electra really avoid contrast??"
  created: '2009-08-03 22:38:42'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>The font gets a page of its own, separate from the colophon.</cite>\r\n\r\nNow,
    I am wondering what meaning you are giving to the word \"colophon\". The Wiki
    definition <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Colophon_(publishing)\"><strong>Colophon
    (publishing)</strong></a> includes production notes where it is said they are
    often titled <cite>A note about the type</cite>. "
  created: '2009-08-03 23:14:19'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Gosh, now I'm confused too!\r\n\r\nI'd always believed a colophon was the
    page at the front of the book where you see the publishing date, edition, copyright
    notice, ISBN, designer, printer/binder and paper source/type, and sometimes the
    font name and point size/leading.\r\n\r\nThe font note above appears at the back
    of the book and struck me as more than a colophon.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-03 23:34:14'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Bendy, that's called the copyright page. It can appear either on the verso
    immediately following the title page (in other words on the reverse of the title
    page) or on the last page of the book. \r\n\r\nColophons nearly always appear
    at the back of the book.\r\n\r\nGeez, now I have to start forcing my clients to
    credit the foundries, let's see how that goes over."
  created: '2009-08-04 03:42:39'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: 'Copyright page: here it is called the "imprint", and is usually on p. iv
    (i: half-title, ii: blank, iii: title, iv: imprint)'
  created: '2009-08-04 06:41:37'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: "Page xxv of <em>The Mystery Science Theater 3000 Amazing Colossal Episode
    Guide</em>:\r\n\r\n\"<strong>About the Typeface</strong>\r\n\r\nThis book uses
    a particular typeface.\""
  created: '2009-08-04 08:28:26'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "The longest colophon I've got into a book so far. It's illustrated :-)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/kolophon_4120.jpg]"
  created: '2009-08-04 08:53:29'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Here's another one of Electra, from a book published by Chatto & Windus,
    London, in 1995. It too has a whole page after a whole page about the author,
    both at the end of the book.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/type_Electra_4026.jpg]"
  created: '2009-08-04 13:13:44'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > I\u2019d always believed a colophon was the page at the front of
    the book </cite>\r\n\r\n\"Colophon\" derives from the Greek, meaning \"finishing
    touch.\" So it typically refers to a statement at the very end of a book which
    gives information about its production.\r\n\r\n\"A Note about the Type\" was a
    typical heading used by A. A. Knopf, which was/is probably the most prominent
    publisher to regularly include a colophon in trade editions (as opposed to fine
    print editions, where the practice is practically <em>de rigueur</em>). Even so,
    Knopf would usually include information about the design, composition, printing,
    and binding in the statement also.\r\n\r\nKnopf has continued to include Type
    Notes, but pretty much dropped the crediting of other aspects of production in
    the colophon.\r\n\r\n\"About the Author\" statements are usually considered distinct
    from a colophon, even though they often appear in a similar position at the end
    of a book. But sometimes the two types of statements are combined.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-04 13:23:51'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: "<em>This face cannot be classified as either modern or old style. It is not
    based on any historical model; nor does it echo any particular period or style.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    quite a weighty claim to make. Is Electra really that unique and/or original?"
  created: '2009-08-04 18:30:00'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Some aspects of those colophon statements about Electra seem to be paraphrased
    directly from Mergenthaler's original promotional copy. That's very likely where
    Knopf's note originated, which was then passed on from title to title through
    generations of editors, designers & production managers.\r\n\r\nFrom the original
    Electra specimen:\r\n\r\n\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\r\n\r\nADVERTISEMENT\r\n\r\nThis
    pamphlet is the announcement of a new Linotype face to be called \u201CElectra,\u201D
    cut from designs drawn for The Mergenthaler Linotype Company by W. A. Dwiggins.
    The face \u2014 at this stage completed in twelve point, roman and italic \u2014
    provides a new type texture for book-page composition. In the larger sizes now
    in preparation it will furnish the printer with a new note in advertising typography.
    \r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The face, as may be seen from this specimen,
    falls within the \u201Cmodern\u201D family of type styles, but is drawn to avoid
    the extreme contrast between \u201Cthick\u201D and \u201Cthin\u201D elements that
    marks most \u201Cmodern\u201D faces. The design is not based upon any traditional
    model, and is not an attempt to revive or to reconstruct any historic type. What
    the letter-draughtsman aimed to do is indirectly developed in the following:\r\n\r\n\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014"
  created: '2009-08-04 18:54:12'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: Sorry I didn't close the em properly. Thanks to whomever corrected it.
  created: '2009-08-04 19:10:40'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Thanks for the correction, Patty :)
  created: '2009-08-05 10:14:24'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Remind me to look up how Dwiggins worded his EULA!
  created: '2009-08-05 23:31:47'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Dwiggins never needed to write a EULA because he was on contract with Linotype.
    ;^)
  created: '2009-08-06 23:23:43'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: Well, Electra avoids contrast compared to "most modern typefaces", by which,
    I presume, Bodoni, Didot, and Scotch Roman are meant.
  created: '2011-02-03 05:24:18'
- author:
    name: wlbwlb
    picture: 115800
  body: "What an interesting thread.\r\n\r\nHere is my only attempt at devising a
    colophon, which appeared at the end of Multimedia Language Teaching, Logos international
    (1996).\r\n I edited and typeset the book as well. Self-glorification, perhaps,
    but many people commented on it and had never seen a colophon before.\r\n\r\nI
    used Columbus, a font just released by Monotype, at the time still producing high
    quality fonts, but ultimately doomed to perish in the digital era. Once a great
    foundry; now just a faint memory for  most people.\r\n\r\nMy use of the font had
    a purposeful connection with the book, as I explain in the colophon.\r\nOh, and
    the little ship is one of the very elegant ornaments included with the typeface.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/MMLT_colophon_sm_3985.gif]"
  created: '2011-02-03 07:16:27'
date: '2009-07-20 21:41:29'
title: I had never seen this before. Why was it done? Colophons

---
