---
author:
  name: Miss Tiffany
  picture: 110563
body: "Many of you may have already seen the <a href=\"http://tr.im/sF8B\">growing
  list</a> of foundries and type designers who support, and/or at least like the idea
  of, the <a href=\"http://tr.im/txMm\">.webfonts proposal</a>. I'd also like to get
  a list together of foundries that support EOT and/or EOT Lite. (I can't find a link
  to the current propsal.) And while we're at it what about foundries who are going
  to use Typekit? \r\n\r\nThis is a lot to ask. But if you could just list your name,
  foundry, and which format you support. And if you are going to use the Typekit service."
comments:
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "I am involved with the Typekit trial, do not understand enough of the other
    proposals to decide yet. At the moment I rely on my vendors EULAs (MyFonts and
    Monotype/Linotype/ITC/Faces).\r\nJan Schmoeger, Paragraph"
  created: '2009-07-23 00:46:09'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: Ascender's EOT Lite proposal is [[http://blog.fontembedding.com/post/2009/06/29/Revised-Web-Fonts-Proposal.aspx|here]].
    Adobe supports it -- which is to say, we like what we read about it and we're
    giving it a good look.
  created: '2009-07-23 01:46:03'
- author:
    name: jeffveen
    picture: 117398
  body: We're putting together a blog post introducing some of the foundries and designers
    participating in Typekit's pilot program. We'll publish it soon - likely by the
    end of the week.
  created: '2009-07-23 01:56:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Personally, I support proposals which reasonably protect the font from theft
    and do not burden users or browsers with excessive roadblocks. Both EOT and EOT
    lite \"seem\" to do this. The proof is in the pudding though. We will have to
    see what becomes of the Monotype offer of release of compression sourcecode and
    the Microsoft offer to release its wrapper. The major browsers need to all be
    on a level playing field.\r\nAs far as type designers go, I wonder what the new
    deal will do for the hinting regimen.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-07-23 15:22:13'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: (<cite>As far as type designers go, I wonder what the new deal will do for
    the hinting regimen.</cite> -- This is unrelated to the wrapper format question
    and depends on different platforms' rasterizers.)
  created: '2009-07-23 15:46:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks, Karsten--one more issue :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-07-23 17:49:34'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > Microsoft offer to release its wrapper</cite>\r\n\r\nI believe the
    EOT code and specification are already public. I just can't find the link right
    now.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-23 18:32:14'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: 'Okay, found it: http://www.w3.org/Submission/EOT/'
  created: '2009-07-23 18:35:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks, Kent!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-07-23 21:02:26'
- author:
    name: outrasfontes
    picture: 112120
  body: "Tiffany,\r\n\r\n<cite>(I can\u2019t find a link to the current propsal.)</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    EOT Lite proposal is here: http://www.typophile.com/node/59489\r\nOfficial announcement
    here: http://www.ascendercorp.com/pr/2009-07-15/\r\n\r\nI'll be certainly with
    my resellers' positions on that issue (MyFonts, Monotype/Linotype/ITC, AscenderFonts).\r\n\r\nBut
    I'm open to analyze any other model that is proposed, except to put raw fonts
    on the web.\r\n\r\nRicardo Esteves, \r\nOutrasFontes"
  created: '2009-07-23 23:59:25'
- author:
    name: billdavis
    picture: 109965
  body: "Ascender supports the ideas in the .webfont proposal (and also the .zot proposal).
    Unfortunately those will take years to achieve widespread adoption. So the only
    opportunity that we see for a single web font format across all browsers in the
    short term is EOT Lite.\r\n\r\nWe proposed EOT Lite to address the two features
    of EOT that the browser makers objected to: MTX font compression and URL binding.
    If the browser makers take up [[http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-font/2009JulSep/0599.html|Monotype's
    offer for MTX]], then EOT Lite would be an even better solution.\r\n\r\nRegardless,
    EOT Lite provides an achievable solution that would give web designers a single
    web font format, and access to a large collection of commercial fonts that they
    desire (and that we want to offer!)."
  created: '2009-07-24 04:14:18'
- author:
    name: outrasfontes
    picture: 112120
  body: "<cite>If the browser makers take up Monotype\u2019s offer for MTX, then EOT
    Lite would be an even better solution.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt seems that Monotype is
    making a great offer to the type comunity, giving MTX compression technology to
    the public domain. With generous actions like that, everybody wins, I think.\r\n\r\nI
    really hope that Mozilla guys can show their positions in a more clear way at
    W3C forum. I'm spending too much time reading arguments there that seem to be
    looking for a perfect (impossible) solution. Too platonic for me.\r\n\r\nI think
    the proposals of Ascender (EOT Lite) and Letteror/Typesupply (.webfont 2.1) are
    much more pragmatic and productive for us all."
  created: '2009-07-24 04:54:27'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "The Font Bureau supports the ideas in the .webfont proposal (and all other
    proposals). Unfortunately those will take years to achieve widespread adoption
    by which time they will offer no more protection than any other format. In the
    mean time we are publishing fonts with permissions and recommendations included,
    unique file naming for the web to distinguish them from uses calling by font name,
    and one other thing. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-24 12:03:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"and one other thing.\"\r\n\r\nA huge guy named Nunzio who knocks on your
    door with brass knuckles if you rip off the fonts? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-07-24 15:02:43'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Please excuse my self-promotion, but I do think my explanation of the new
    EOT format is the most concise and easily understandable treatment I've read so
    far:<br />\r\n<a href=\"http://readableweb.com/jeffrey-zeldman-questions-the-eot-lite-web-font-format/\"><strong>Jeffrey
    Zeldman Questions The EOT Lite Web Font Format</strong></a><br />\r\nTo bring
    readers of this site up to date:<br />\r\nSo far, even though the new EOT is a
    reasonable interim solution which would bring web fonts to the most people in
    the shortest amount of time, the folks from Mozilla FireFox and Opera have said
    they are \"not interested\" in deploying it, despite this one great advantage.
    I'm not sure where Apple stands.<br />\r\nSince it would appear unreasonable to
    not give reasons for declining to support the new EOT, bullshit reasons have been
    put forth, in public, in the main forum for these discussions so far, the W3C
    Web Fonts mailing list.<br />(Don't have the link handy... anyone?)\r\nFailure
    to deploy the new EOT means delaying any kind of reliable cross-browser support
    <strong>for perhaps as long as ten years</strong>.\r\nPlease note that there is
    nothing to prevent a more mature and comprehensive spec such as .webfont or .zot
    from being developed either alongside or on the heels of an EOT solution.\r\nMe,
    I guess I'll be boning up on my Adobe Flash skills because the way things are
    going, that's the only way I'll be able to see what I want to see inside a browser
    window for the foreseeable future. A shame. Really."
  created: '2009-07-24 16:34:54'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@dezcom\r\nBTW - the \"Nunzio\" proposal, too, has been rejected. Unanimously,
    I'm afraid. ;)"
  created: '2009-07-24 16:44:21'
- author:
    name: outrasfontes
    picture: 112120
  body: "<cite>Since it would appear unreasonable to not give reasons for declining
    to support the new EOT, bullshit reasons have been put forth, in public, in the
    main forum for these discussions so far, the W3C Web Fonts mailing list.(Don\u2019t
    have the link handy... anyone?)</cite>\r\n\r\nThe sad arena:\r\nhttp://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-font/2009JulSep/"
  created: '2009-07-24 17:19:17'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The funny thing about the bullshit reasons given not to support EOT Lite
    is that 'It smells like Microsoft' seems to me a valid reason and I don't know
    why Mozilla and Opera are making themselves look foolish coming up with obvious
    red herrings to try to justify their objection on supposedly technical grounds.
    :)\r\n\r\nMicrosoft's resistance to naked font linking isn't supported by technical
    reasons: it is supported by IP and strategic reasons. As such, it is a much stronger
    position than the pseudo-technical case that Mozilla and Opera are trying to make
    against EOT Lite. Microsoft are not trying to invent technical reasons why they
    won't support naked font linking: they're just stating it as a policy."
  created: '2009-07-24 17:52:53'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: Can anyone provide a link to the ZOT proposal?
  created: '2009-07-24 18:54:51'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "It's here:\r\nhttp://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-font/2009JulSep/0018.html\r\nIn
    essence, each of an OpenType font's table is compressed individually."
  created: '2009-07-24 19:38:34'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "The veil of reasonableness, I believe, has now been pierced. It's an open
    brawl.\r\n\r\nOver the past couple of years, in what could be described as an
    \"unseen revolution\", the developers of the FireFox browser have acquired an
    enormous amount of power. With no check on that power - not the \"market\", surely
    - that I can see.\r\nI've asked them to whom they consider themselves responsible,
    but have never gotten an answer.\r\n\r\nIn a larger sense, the web fonts debate
    is about accountability."
  created: '2009-07-24 22:25:22'
- author:
    name: billdavis
    picture: 109965
  body: "At the top of this post Tiffany asked about a starting a list of type designers
    and foundries that have come out in support of EOT Lite. Here are the ones I know
    of:\r\n\r\nAdobe\r\nMonotype \r\nMicrosoft\r\nAscender\r\nBigelow & Holmes\r\nRay
    Larabie / Typodermic\r\nURW++\r\nBoutros International\r\nMark Simonson\r\nChank\r\nGarrett
    Boge / LetterPerfect\r\nRicardo Esteves Gomes / OutrasFontes\r\nTour De Force\r\nRonald
    Arnholm\r\nDalton Maag\r\nBerthold\r\nParaType International\r\nShinnType \r\nMota
    Italic (<em>Added on August 4th</em>)\r\n\r\nI'm sure there are others - hopefully
    they will add their names to this post.\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-31 20:22:12'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Bill, if you can babysit me a bit, you can ad me and my free fonts.
  created: '2009-07-31 20:32:46'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Interestingly, the W3C discussion of EOT Light as a possible interim format
    has gotten increasingly reasonable and in-depth in recent days. The Mozilla/Firefox
    people seem to be seriously entertaining the idea.\r\n\r\nI had originally thought
    that having EOT Lite as a stepping stone towards another format was kind of redundant
    and that nothing else would probably happen. But the non-Microsoft browsers have
    a strong interest in something \"better,\" for the long run, and even Microsoft
    seems amenable to a two-stage solution, so who knows?\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-08-02 21:11:08'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "That's Great Thomas! It is not embedded, it's not opentype, and it sure isn't
    lite anymore, why not have a 2-stage solution, if one won't work!?\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-02 21:18:37'
- author:
    name: davidmarshall
    picture: 117748
  body: "> I\u2019m sure there are others - hopefully they will add their names to
    this post.\r\n\r\nI'm delighted to add Dalton Maag to this list.\r\n\r\nWhile
    we would be happy to offer our support to any format which ticks all the right
    boxes, EOT Lite is the one which we believe has the highest chance of cross-platform,
    cross-browser, and cross-device success. And the only realistic proposition for
    fast roll-out.\r\n\r\nWe'd also like to see an easy-to-use and thorough subsetting
    tool (but that applies to font files in general) and ideally opposition to MTX
    fall - both on grounds of keeping the file compact to deliver real benefits over
    raw fonts.\r\n\r\nIf MTX doesn't gain traction, I would advocate an, if you like,
    extension to EOT Lite which allows the whole content to be compressed using LZMA.
    Obviously no out-of-the-box IE support for that, but there's no IE support for
    CFF either, so once it's in the spec, that may come.\r\n\r\nDave"
  created: '2009-08-03 21:13:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Bill, I supported EOT lite in the first thread you proposed it.\r\n\r\n_Nick
    Shinn, Shinntype.\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-03 21:58:31'
- author:
    name: billdavis
    picture: 109965
  body: "Thanks Nick! Sorry I missed that.\r\n\r\nAlso Christopher Fynn has expressed
    his support.\r\n\r\nBill"
  created: '2009-08-04 13:17:45'
- author:
    name: rob keller
    picture: 109886
  body: "Our new foundry [[http://www.motaitalic.com|\xBBMota Italic\xAB]] is in favor
    of solutions along the lines of .webfont and EOT Lite. The idea of subscription
    and javascript options are not very interesting.\r\n\r\nWe are happy to allow
    users to be able to host their licensed fonts on their own servers. For the time
    being this means modified .ttf fonts, but in the future, we would likely move
    to a web-specific format.\r\n\r\nIn regards to EOT Lite, have I missed something
    or has there been any announcement as to when Ascender will share their EOT-Lite-font-making
    capabilities?\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nRob"
  created: '2009-08-04 21:41:35'
- author:
    name: billdavis
    picture: 109965
  body: "Hello Rob,\r\n\r\nWe are pleased to announce our tool for qualified type
    designers and foundries to create EOT Lite fonts from their TTF or OTF fonts.\r\n\r\nMore
    information about what this tool does is available on our website:\r\nhttp://www.ascendercorp.com/info/eot-lite-wrap-tool/\r\n\r\nIf
    you are are interested in a copy, just fill out the contact form on the site to
    send us a note.\r\n\r\nBill"
  created: '2009-08-06 15:51:50'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Hello again, Bill. Do you want me on board or not?\r\nJan Schmoeger, Paragraph"
  created: '2009-08-06 16:23:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks for providing this tool, Bill!\r\nI will contact you soon to get a
    copy.\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-06 18:31:59'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"for qualified type designers\"\r\n\r\nIf EOT is, at least in part, an attempt
    to add some layer of 'security' isn't that arbitrary EULA clause a weak point? "
  created: '2009-08-06 18:47:49'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "There's not *much* protection in EOT Lite, but it is a tad more than for
    raw/naked desktop fonts.\r\n\r\nWhat with the .webfont and ZOT proposals having
    merged, I am reasonably sure I like the direction of that proposal and think font
    vendors and type designers should back it. This does not preclude also supporting
    EOT Lite as well, however.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-08-07 06:45:37'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Link to the new proposal, ZOT + .webfont = WebOTF:\r\nhttp://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-font/2009JulSep/1238.html\r\nThis
    is an elegant solution, combining ZOT's file structure with .webfont's xml metadata
    file. Worth supporting. So there is EOTL to serve the past and WebOTF for the
    future.\r\n\r\nIt seems that foundries are \"updating\" their support:\r\nhttp://typegirl.tumblr.com/post/142912558/most-of-the-important-foundries-are-supporting-webfont\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2009-08-07 08:47:50'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">There\u2019s not *much* protection in EOT Lite, but it is a tad more than
    for raw/naked desktop fonts.\r\n\r\nI think what you mean, is the OpenType format,
    is a little older. \r\n\r\nSo, EOTL's protection is Time, as in \u2014 the time
    between when the tools get into the hands of 'qualified' designers, until those
    tools are in everyone's hands, after which EOTL is naked as Adam.\r\n\r\n>This
    is an elegant solution, (= WebOTF:)\r\n\r\n...and I will fully support it when
    is allows its vast swath of meta-data to include the hinter's uncle's dog. \r\n\r\nAnd,
    WebOTF's protection is Time, as in \u2014 the time from when the tools get into
    the hands of 'qualified' designers, until those tools are in everyone's hands,
    after which WebOTF is as naked as Adam <em>and</em> Eve. \r\n\r\nDon't ever be
    fooled; unless the format you're supporting the serving of has Electronic Permissions
    and Recommendations, being on these support-the-format lists is for the improperly
    informed, just properly afraid. \r\n\r\nOr, do people out there actually think
    I, who quantitatively need more protection than most of that WebOTF list (combined),
    don't want protection too? ;-o\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-07 12:11:05'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">There\u2019s not *much* protection in EOT Lite, but it is a tad more than
    for raw/naked desktop fonts.\r\n\r\nI think what you mean, is the OpenType format,
    is a little older. \r\n\r\nSo, EOTL's protection is Time, as in \u2014 the time
    between when the tools get into the hands of 'qualified' designers, until those
    tools are in everyone's hands, after which EOTL is naked as Adam.\r\n\r\n>This
    is an elegant solution, (= WebOTF:)\r\n\r\n...and I will fully support it when
    is allows its vast swath of meta-data to include the hinter's uncle's dog. \r\n\r\nAnd,
    WebOTF's protection is Time, as in \u2014 the time from when the tools get into
    the hands of 'qualified' designers, until those tools are in everyone's hands,
    after which WebOTF is as naked as Adam <em>and</em> Eve. \r\n\r\nDon't ever be
    fooled; unless the format you're supporting the serving of has Electronic Permissions
    and Recommendations, being on these support-the-format lists is for the improperly
    informed, just properly afraid. \r\n\r\nOr, do people out there actually think
    I, who quantitatively need more protection than most of that WebOTF list (combined),
    don't want protection too? ;-o\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-07 12:11:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...for the improperly informed, just properly afraid...</em>\r\n\r\nNo,
    it's just a business strategy.\r\n\r\nThe reason I endorse a fragile wrapper is
    that it will alert those who are mostly honest or don't know better that copying
    is prohibited, not because it will provide an impediment to those who are determined
    to steal."
  created: '2009-08-07 19:01:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Right, Nick. There is no protection against deliberate theft, there is only
    protection against casual misuse. I've lost track of how many times that has been
    clearly stated, and I'm surprised if anyone is still confused about this.\r\n_____\r\n\r\n<em>Don\u2019t
    ever be fooled; unless the format you\u2019re supporting the serving of has Electronic
    Permissions and Recommendations, being on these support-the-format lists is for
    the improperly informed, just properly afraid.</em>\r\n\r\nSince your EP&R proposal
    is for a font table, it can be included within any wrapper that wraps an sfnt
    font. The latest WebOTF proposal used the ZOT compression model, which compresses
    individual tables rather than the whole font, so a tool could efficiently decompress
    just the EP&R table to check permissions and recommendations, without needing
    to decompress and load the whole font first.\r\n\r\nI'm still far from clear who
    you think is going to look at this table and what you think they are going to
    do with the information in it."
  created: '2009-08-07 19:31:46'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"There is no protection against deliberate theft, there is only protection
    against casual misuse.\"\r\n\r\nHow big of a problem is that, really?\r\n\r\n\"I\u2019m
    still far from clear who you think is going to look at this table and what you
    think they are going to do with the information in it.\"\r\n\r\nSame here. That's
    the one part that (from what I've read) really hasn't been explained yet. "
  created: '2009-08-07 22:36:30'
- author:
    name: rob keller
    picture: 109886
  body: "Thanks Bill! Looking forward to trying out your tool soon!\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nRob"
  created: '2009-08-07 22:51:23'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "JH>there is only protection against casual misuse. \r\nJH>I\u2019ve lost
    track of how many times that has been clearly stated,\r\n\r\nThen let's have at
    it!\r\n\r\nLet's first assume we are no longer sitting in class at the organic
    free-range typographic charter school, so I'm not interested in a lesson that
    says; 'it's like if you leave your money on the ground outside your car, vs. in
    the car unlocked' little boy.  Let us talk fonts instead. \r\n\r\nUsers place
    a font on a server, and then write javascript and/or html/css to refer to that
    file. Just exactly what in any format is going to prevent that? Now, John... please....
    define Casual Misuse, Today, and 5 years after any new format is released.\r\n\r\n>I\u2019m
    still far from clear who you think is going to look at this table and what you
    think they are going to do with the information in it.\r\n\r\nYou would need to
    task yourself seriously to thinking the development of web font business over
    time, technology and (especially) users from; \"I don't know anything\" to; \"the
    web site is up'.\r\n\r\nOr... are you going to claim casual misuse is a major
    issue, then not think about or satisfy, the needs of casual users? :-(\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-08 12:06:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "David, have you been skipping school for 20 years?\r\nThe lesson of DTP is
    that despite the ease of font copying and the lack of punishment for transgression,
    not to mention the corrupting influence of font bundling and freeware, an indie
    font industry has emerged based on retail purchases. Please explain how that was
    possible, and why would things be different for web fonts, or go stand in the
    corner.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-08 12:33:22'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@nick\r\n\r\nTough to argue with an \"existence proof\". But if anyone can
    do it, I believe Mr. Berlow can!\r\nThe way things are playing out, with a little
    bit of luck and, I'm assuming, the continued good faith of those parties so far
    participating, I believe we'll see an outcome similar to the one you describe
    with DTP, with web fonts.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-08 17:02:04'
- author:
    name: outrasfontes
    picture: 112120
  body: "BTW, I've been testing EOT Lite fonts (generated by Ascender's EOTLiteWrap\r\nsoftware)
    and it looks fine in IE and in Firefox test build. I hope that Mozilla\r\ncan
    release this version soon as a Firefox update.\r\n\r\nIn the case we have more
    than one specific web format (WebOTF, EOTL, WTF, whatever) working in different
    browsers, that seems not to be real a problem.\r\n\r\nLet's supose that we have
    Format 1, that works in Browser A, B and C and\r\nFormat 2 that works in Browser
    B, D and E.\r\n\r\nSo Foundry/Vendor X can analyze the pros and cons involved
    and decide\r\nto licence its fonts using Format 1, Format 2, or both maybe, or
    even none of them. \r\n\r\nFor now, I'm beta-testing everything that is possible.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-08 19:38:33'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>Users place a font on a server, and then write javascript and/or
    html/css to refer to that file. Just exactly what in any format is going to prevent
    that? Now, John... please.... define Casual Misuse, Today, and 5 years after any
    new format is released.</em>\r\n\r\nTypical example of casual misuse of naked
    font linking: user has a font on his or her system and wants to use it to display
    text on web page. User has no clue where the font came from or what license terms
    may apply to it, only that it is available and he or she likes it. So the font
    is uploaded to a server and linked to as you describe. This is the first casual
    misuse. The second casual misuse happens when someone writes to that user and
    says 'Cool font! Where can I get it?' and the first user says 'Oh, you can download
    it from my server'. The third misuse happens when another user links to the naked
    font on the server to display text on his own website. The presence of a permissions
    and recommendations table in the font to which no browser pays any attention and
    that the user never sees seems to me to have no impact on this scenario.\r\n\r\nNow
    consider the impact of a format distinction between desktop and web fonts: the
    existing fonts on the user's system are not useful on the web because they don't
    offer cross-browser interoperability. The user has to either get a new license
    and a new (customised, serialised, PERM'd) font, or has to figure out a way to
    make a web font. Either way, the very fact that some action is required raises
    the question 'Why?' which is directly answerable in terms of the existing license
    agreement. Simply put, the format distinction provides an opportunity to educate
    the user about the license, which is the distinction between casual and deliberate
    misuse."
  created: '2009-08-09 02:09:34'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Typical example of casual misuse of naked font linking: user has a
    font on his or her system and wants to use it to display text on web page. User
    has no clue where the font came from or what license terms may apply to it, only
    that it is available and he or she likes it. So the font is uploaded to a server
    and linked to as you describe.</cite>\r\n\r\nDo you honestly think that people
    will casually sift through their browser cache looking for interesting fonts to
    use in their web designs?"
  created: '2009-08-09 05:49:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'I''m not talking about browser caches, I''m talking about the fonts that
    people have installed on their systems, most of which most people have no idea
    where they come from: fonts that come with the system, fonts that come with applications,
    fonts that some friend installed on their machine, etc. Most people have no idea
    that font licenses even exist, let alone what these licenses permit or do not
    permit. This leads most of the font makers I know to be concerned that naked font
    linking is basically just an invitation to give away all existing TTF/OTF fonts.
    Moving forward, with a viable interoperable format and appropriate license metadata
    etc., font makers can provide web fonts and earn some money from this use, but
    only if they''re not competing against massively widespread unlicensed use of
    existing desktop fonts on the web.'
  created: '2009-08-09 06:06:03'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Sorry, I misunderstood you.
  created: '2009-08-09 06:30:07'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Yes James, Now you understand! Nobodies are stealing our fonts, and we have
    to do nothing to stop them, never. \r\n\r\nJH> Typical example of casual misuse
    of naked font linking: user has a font on his or her system and wants to use it
    to display text on web page. [etc through 3 examples where obvious 'nobodies',
    casually copy, serve and link unlicensed font IP, supposedly because it's 'naked'
    (OpenType)]\r\n\r\nBought your red herring argument at the red herring argument
    store?\r\n\r\nJohn's 'casual users' are either Fired by Legal eventually, or they
    are Nobodies we'd never get a license fee from... ever. All three 'casual misuse'
    examples are happening soon-as-can-be in another format, just as \"casually\".
    Users will send each other EOTL. Users will serve each other EOTL, and users will
    link to fonts on other's servers, in EOTL.\r\n\r\nJH>The presence of a permissions
    and recommendations table in the font to which no browser pays any attention and
    that the user never sees seems to me to have no impact on this scenario.\r\n\r\nIf
    no browser can pay any attention to, and no user can ever see anything from EPAR
    or metadata of a truly useful nature, ever... is that the better scenario then?
    \r\n\r\nA lot that was impossible, becomes possible with EPAR, for all formats
    'downstream' and as OT is...\r\n\r\nJH>This leads most of the font makers I know
    to be concerned that naked font linking is basically just an invitation to give
    away all existing TTF/OTF fonts. \r\n\r\nOT is a web font format recommendation
    of the w3c. If a founder does not have a licensable OT font for the web, and there
    is nothing else for a developer's browser(s), (for years) what is that an invitation
    to do? \r\n\r\nSo... this fear is not resolved by the means most of the font makers
    I know are being ponded into. And as you can see, the demonization of EPAR has
    begun! \"It will never do anything for anyone ever, so why do it?\"\r\n\r\nIronically,
    I said the same a long time ago about any new format, then talked to 100's of
    clients and types, looked at thousands of types on clients, read a mozillion words
    from users, developers, permitters and recommendor's, confirmed that no new format
    will work, and that's how I got to EPAR. \r\n\r\nHow'd you get here, John? What's
    your motive? Who do you represent?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-08-09 19:13:20'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Nick> The lesson of DTP is that despite the ease of font copying [...]\r\nTrue...\r\n\r\n>...and
    the lack of punishment for transgression, \r\nFalse...Some bodies have paid aplenty
    \u2014 Nobodies rarely get caught, big deal.\r\n\r\n>Please explain how that was
    possible, and why would things be different for web fonts, \r\n\r\nWell why not...
    if 99.9% of all DTP prepress clients suddenly wanted only a single sheet, full
    color, four fold, brochure, overnight for free... wouldn't that change the DTP
    four-fold brochure prepress industry? The market for pre-press print and web publishing
    are totally different dynamics, inhabitants and habits, except that they overlap
    in some tiny proportion, and they all want words. Don't be confused by the fact
    that fonts have word-making capabilities, or that some people use them casually
    on the web and in print. \r\n\r\nMore globally, the triangle of legal, technical
    and design issues forming this bermudaization are very very different, print to
    web.\r\n\r\n>or go stand in the corner.\r\n\r\nPart of what we must do, is make
    up for the past of format neglect and pathetic hacking at it. Part of what we
    must do is look into the future and 'help', It's a bigger problem than we should
    need to solve, alone, because it's taken so long for all the others to get their
    ducks in line. Sorry for them, is not sorry for us.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-09 19:17:16'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@outrasfontes\r\n\r\nDo you have the capability of testing in IE6? And IE7?\r\nI
    haven't had a chance yet, but there's been some questions raised as to the reliability
    of EOTL in those versions. I don't know if it's the CSS syntax or what.\r\nIf
    you see anything amiss in IE6 or 7, please post!\r\nThanks.\r\n<a href=\"http://readableweb.com\">Richard
    Fink</a>\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-09 23:16:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, I represent me, and I also try to represent fairly and accurately
    what other people have said to me. So when the great majority of font makers are
    a) refusing to license for naked font linking and b) vocally supporting distinctive
    web font formats, I think that should be acknowledged and I'm not about to suggest
    that all those people are idiots who just don't get it or are being \u2018ponded\u2019
    into a solution, i.e. that they can't figure this out for themselves.\r\n\r\n<em>Nobodies
    we\u2019d never get a license fee from.</em>\r\n\r\nSo that makes it okay for
    them to take your fonts for free? Come on, David, you know the value of typefaces
    and you know how much of that value resides in either absolute or relative exclusivity.
    Are your customers going to want to invest in fonts that every \u2018nobody\u2019
    on the planet might be using on his website? Protecting the customer's investment
    is job one if we want them to continue spending money on font licenses and commissions.\r\n\r\n<em>And
    as you can see, the demonization of EPAR has begun!</em>\r\n\r\nI don't intend
    to demonise the EPAR table idea. But when you say things like\r\n\r\n<em>A lot
    that was impossible, becomes possible with EPAR</em>\r\n\r\nI'm still left asking
    What? What?\r\n\r\nMaybe you should hire someone to explain this to the rest of
    us, \u2019cause you\u2019re doing a lousy job. So far, all you've done is convince
    me that you think you're right and everyone else is wrong, but I still don't what
    you think EPAR makes possible and <em>how</em> it makes it possible."
  created: '2009-08-10 03:39:35'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Really the question here is not whether I can explain something, but rather,
    whether one should support the EOTL format without industry developed meta-data
    included.\r\n\r\nBerlow Said: A new web font wrapper will not protect web fonts
    beyond a week or two after publication. \r\n\r\nHudson said: It will protect them
    from casual misuse like OpenType fonts will not.\r\n\r\nBerlow asked: Define casual
    misuse.\r\n\r\nHudson defined: Casual misuse is when someone places an OT font
    on a server, sends an OT font to another user, or links to an OT font on someone
    else's server.\r\n\r\nBerlow said: This is exactly what will happen to any font
    format for the web. People who do this, are not concerned with IP issues, and
    are not likely licensees.\r\n\r\nHudson said: So that makes it okay for them to
    take your fonts for free?\r\n\r\nBerlow Asks: Free possession will not be possible
    with a new web font wrapper?\r\n\r\nI'm sorry John wants to ask something so circular
    in the course of honest dialog. \r\n\r\nSome of us long ago supposed each foundry
    could have it's own wrapper and un-wrapper each day to protect just against everything.
    But if a stupid idea is no good 365 times a year it's smart just once then?;)
    \r\n\r\nHudson says: Maybe you should hire someone to explain this to the rest
    of us, \u2019cause you\u2019re doing a lousy job. \r\n\r\nBerlow Asks Politely:
    Will your definition of casual misuse be prevented by a new wrapper, by EOT or
    any other likely action no win discussion?\r\n\r\nHudson also Asks: I\u2019m still
    left asking What? What?\r\n\r\nBerlow says: There is no point in you going further
    without Your answer to the question above.\r\n\r\nWill John's definition of casual
    misuse be prevented by a new wrapper? Or will Rocky meet the Squirrel of his dreams?\r\n\r\nStay
    Tuned!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-10 21:33:23'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "None of the web font format proposals do much for casual misuse from one
    web site to another. This is not for lack of interest by type designers and font
    vendors, but because the browser makers are simply unwilling to accept anything
    that does much in that regard.\r\n\r\nHowever, all of these proposals do have
    some degree of format barrier (garden fence) against casual misuse from as desktop
    fonts. This is the existing revenue stream that font makers are most worried about
    losing/threatening/whatever.\r\n\r\nI'm not necessarily against David Berlow's
    EPAR table, but I do agree with John that it seems compatible with any other proposal
    that maintains the existing tables in a font, including WebOTF, EOTL, naked fonts,
    and just about anything else. However, if David wants to specify that he is really
    proposing not just \"add an EPAR table\" but \"only naked fonts with an EPAR table,\"
    and explain why having an EPAR table inside a dedicated web font format is a Bad
    Idea, I'm all ears.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-08-10 22:13:24'
- author:
    name: outrasfontes
    picture: 112120
  body: "@ Richard Fink\r\n\r\nI did not have any problem with IE7 and IE8, but I
    didn't test it in IE6 yet."
  created: '2009-08-10 23:10:10'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "First off, let me say that I think EOTL sucks and the only reason it is likely
    to become at least an intermediary interoperable web font format is that it enables
    foundries who do not want to license for naked font linking, i.e. almost all of
    them, to immediately start licensing TTF-derived web fonts that will work right
    now in the majority of browsers in use (IE) and can work tomorrow morning in Firefox
    etc. as John Daggett has demonstrated with his test code. Part of me wishes EOTL
    would suck more than it does, so that we could ignore it and concentrate on a
    better format like .webOTF. But I think we're going to be stuck with EOTL, so
    the question becomes how to make the most of it.\r\n\r\n<em>Really the question
    here is not whether I can explain something, but rather, whether one should support
    the EOTL format without industry developed meta-data included.</em>\r\n\r\nI've
    never suggested that that EOTL should be supported without such meta-data, and
    in all my discussions I have presumed that foundries will be adding such meta-data,
    either in a standardised table if we can agree on that or in private tables. I
    do know that things like the EEULAA have been under discussion for at least two
    years, your EPAR table is currently only an outline of what a table might contain
    not a technical spec, there is already disagreement in feedback from other foundries
    about whether all this belongs in a single table or in multiple tables (separate
    tables for licensing/permissions and for recommendations), standardisation in
    the OT/OFF spec will take time, and still we're missing the explanation of who
    is expected to make use of this metadata and how.\r\n\r\nI understand some of
    the things that EPAR makes possible <em>in theory,</em> but I'm wondering how
    you see it working in practical terms. What are the usage scenarios, if this isn't
    just a bunch of bytes that everyone ignores? [And I don't ask that because I'm
    trying to 'demonise' the EPAR table, but because I've seen just how keen the browser
    makers are to ignore anything that implies they have to do something other than
    or in addition to displaying the linked font. Not to mention the 'libre' font
    zealots who want to ignore even the rootstrings in existing EOT fonts.]\r\n\r\nRe.
    casual misuse, it's as Thomas says: a distinct format draws a line between fonts
    used on desktops and fonts used on the web such that a font licensed for use in
    one environment won't be casually used in the other environment. As I wrote above,
    the primary concern expressed by multiple font makers is casual misuse of existing
    desktop fonts on the web, contrary to existing licenses; other forms of casual
    misuse, including downloading and use of those fonts on the desktop, extend from
    that first misuse. The question is not, as you suggest, whether parallel kinds
    of misuse will also apply to EOTL or another web font format, but whether this
    particular kind of casual misuse of existing fonts can be to some degree prevented,
    such that the market for web font licensing is viable and font makers trying to
    sell such licenses are not competing against misuse of their own existing desktop
    fonts. I believe a format distinction can significantly affect this scenario,
    and apparently so do most of our colleagues."
  created: '2009-08-10 23:16:44'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I wrote: <cite> casual misuse from as desktop fonts</cite>\r\n\r\nHmmm. Something
    got lost in my editing prior to posting. Should have read something like \"casual
    misuse of web fonts as desktop fonts.\"\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-08-11 04:21:40'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "To be honest, I'm tired of the \"a web font format won't protect anything\"
    meme.\r\n\r\nIf we want to discourage the use of web fonts on the desktop, there
    is significance in creating a separate file type. The protection is twofold: First,
    the user has to confront the problem of \"getting the font to work\" on their
    desktop. This will not guarantee that they understand that they are violating
    a license, but it increases the likelihood of publicity and awareness of font
    licensing. (They Google it to find out why it's not working, and find out why.)
    Second, it's a legal tool, which gives lawyers (in the unlikely event the case
    goes to court) evidence of a deliberate act. The mere awareness that such an act
    would make a legal case more convincing in court is a deterrent for some.\r\n\r\nThink
    about the copy protection on most DVDs. With a bit of knowhow, a user can work
    around it. But the very existence of that copy protection (which, btw, to most
    people first translates to \"this isn't working when I try to copy it\" as opposed
    to \"I am not allowed to copy it\") subsequently creates awareness of the licensing.
    If DVDs were easy to copy, I think there would be many more duplicates floating
    around by now.\r\n\r\nSo, to summarize, a web font format creates an opportunity
    for license awareness, and a \"trail of evidence\" threat to possible violators.
    I don't want to overstate the degree to which this helps, but I think it's non-trivial.\r\n\r\nThere's
    plenty of other features which would offer more, and better, protection. URL binding
    would be nice (but we won't get that). Same-origin checking would be nice (if
    it could be relied-upon consistently). License info metadata would be nice (and
    at least is relatively easy to imagine)."
  created: '2009-08-11 07:36:10'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@outrafontes\r\nThanks for your input re IE7 and IE8. I've been pulled away
    with some family health emergencies and can't devote any time to testing for another
    5 days or so. If you have any pages posted publicly, please post links - visiting
    them in IE6 would be an easy matter.\r\n\r\n@christopherslye\r\n\r\nThe \"level
    of safety\" that type designers are going to get with web fonts is pretty well-settled
    at this point, right? So, to move on to the question that concerns people like
    me: does EOTL and .webOTF free things up? Are type designers ready to move on
    to the next phase?\r\n(Partly rhetorical, yes. It's August. But soon decisions
    have to be made. New EULAs drafted, etc.)"
  created: '2009-08-12 14:57:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "...and MUCH more hinting to be done.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-08-12 15:08:21'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@dezcom\r\n\r\nHey, at least *somebody* gets it! Congrats, you win first
    prize.\r\nIn fairness, display manufacturers and rasterization software makers
    have much to do, too.\r\nLike I said, it's August. But by October we should have
    it all straightened out.\r\n(The only question is October of what year.)\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2009-08-12 17:33:47'
- author:
    name: hoefler
    picture: 128166
  body: "> License info metadata would be nice (and at least is relatively easy to
    imagine).\r\n\r\nChristopher, do you feel that EOT Lite offers more in this regard
    than WebOTF?\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-12 18:37:38'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "TP> None of the web font format proposals do much for casual misuse\r\nJH>
    First off, let me say that I think EOTL sucks\r\n\r\nWell... you each started
    well.\r\n\r\nBut--->\r\n\r\n> a distinct format draws a line between fonts used
    on desktops and fonts used on the web. . .\r\n\r\npoint2 - OpenType is not going
    away, as a DeskTop format. It is not being replaced as a Web format. OpenType
    is what web fonts are today, working right now in a majority of browsers in use...
    \r\n\r\n(...and can work tomorrow morning in IE.) \r\n\r\nPlease draw real line
    between two things, not talk line through two things.\r\n\r\npoint3 -  new format
    does not prevent casual misuse. Users will do everything with new format they
    did with OpenType. In most cases, OT web font users will not even know the difference,
    simply pointing to OT fonts on disk and never seeing resulting .web font files.
    \r\n\r\n('Slightly' less 'casual' users, will need to move result to own server.)
    \r\n\r\npoint1 We need to put meta data in existing open and published font format.
    \r\n\r\nWe can't all hold three points in head and draw useful line through them?\r\n\r\nI
    make you big list. \r\n\r\nCS>To be honest, I\u2019m tired of the \u201Ca web
    font format won\u2019t protect anything\u201D meme\r\n\r\nThat is not a meme.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-08-12 20:29:30'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>OpenType is what web fonts are today, working right now in a majority
    of browsers in use... (...and can work tomorrow morning in IE.) </em>\r\n\r\nThis
    simply isn't true. The majority of browsers in use are IE (approx. 62%, a market
    share that is falling but will probably remain above 50% for at least another
    couple of years). In case you missed the memo, Microsoft's rejection of naked
    font linking in IE appears to be a high level policy decision, i.e. it isn't something
    that an IE group engineer is just going to reverse. And even if MS were to change
    their mind about this, IE's version cycle rate is long (approx. 18 months) and
    its market penetration for new versions is even longer. IE can't do anything by
    \u2018tomorrow morning\u2019, but Firefox have demonstrated that they can (or,
    at least, sometime next week). [And let's be clear that in terms of market share
    IE and Firefox are the only two browsers that count. Everything else is a niche
    product.]\r\n\r\nThe simple, ugly fact is that EOT is the only web font format
    supported in the majority of browsers in use, which is precisely why an EOT-derived
    format looks unavoidable. You should also note that the people pushing most vociferously
    for EOTL on the W3C list are neither font makers nor browser makers: they're people
    who make websites. They understand that EOTL is the only option on the table that
    is already supported in the majority of browsers, is the the only option that
    doesn't require waiting >18 months for a new IE version, and is the only option
    that offers a fast route to interoperability.\r\n\r\nSo I reject your point2 as
    invalid. Your point3 is debatable, probably endlessly: you think Chris, Thomas
    and I are wrong (along with most of your other colleagues) and we think you are
    wrong. But the fact that your point2 is incorrect makes point3 moot. There's going
    to be a distinct web font format, and I don't see any grounds to think that there
    won't be. Firefox are busy testing code for both EOTL and .webOTF; they co-developed
    the proposal for the latter; Microsoft are agreeable to both; font makers have
    indicated that they are willing to license for one or the other or both. Meanwhile,
    MS has said no to naked font linking in no uncertain terms, font makers have said
    they will not license for it, and it is dead-in-the-water as an interoperable
    format.\r\n\r\n<em>point1 We need to put meta data in existing open and published
    font format.</em>\r\n\r\nQuite probably. But I'm still waiting for your explanation
    of <em>how</em> this helps, in practical terms, of what kind of scenarios you
    envision in which this data is used.\r\n\r\nThere's no point in trying to draw
    a useful line through three points if one of those points is factually incorrect
    and another is open to reasonable disagreement. But one only needs two points
    to make a line, so why don't we consider the two realistic points:\r\n\r\na) There
    is going to be a distinct web font format\r\n\r\nb) There is meta data that needs
    to travel in or with a font\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-12 21:20:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>OpenType is what web fonts are today,</em>\r\n\r\nHowever, a two-format
    appeals to me as a font manufacturer because I will be able to produce and market
    two kinds of OpenType font: one (.otf) for print and online display in bitmapped
    gif/png/jpeg files, that will be feature rich--and another (.eotl) that will have
    fewer features but more nuanced screen hinting. \r\n\r\nAlso, the licensing would
    be different, prohibiting using the .otf format online, or adapting web-format
    fonts from the .otf fonts.\r\n\r\nHaving different file format suffixes is a good
    way to signal the different capabilites and licensing requirements. \r\n\r\nSure,
    OpenType features such as small caps and figure alternates are web-viable, but
    I don't believe there's a market for that yet."
  created: '2009-08-12 21:26:59'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>Christopher, do you feel that EOT Lite offers more in this regard than
    WebOTF?</cite>\r\n\r\nNo, I do not. In fact, WebOTF is attractive because it has
    made a very clear allowance for it by design. But I should add that I'm still
    digesting the proposals, and there's no particular Adobe position on it yet. So
    for me personally, license metadata is attractive in a conceptual way, but that's
    very different than however Adobe decides it wants to use it, officially.\r\n\r\n<cite>
    That is not a meme.</cite>\r\n\r\nFor some it is. Maybe not for you. I can appreciate
    anyone who wants to discuss it with intellectual honesty, but there seems to be
    a tendency for some to toss it out as an ideological matter."
  created: '2009-08-12 21:27:19'
- author:
    name: hoefler
    picture: 128166
  body: "Thanks, Christopher.\r\n\r\nBill Davis wrote above that Adobe has \"come
    out in support of EOT Lite.\" In light of your comment here,\r\n\r\n> But I should
    add that I\u2019m still digesting the proposals, and there\u2019s no particular
    Adobe position on it yet.\r\n\r\ndo you think you could clarify what \"support\"
    means? If it means that Adobe supports the discussion, which is what I inferred
    from your post at the top of this thread (#3), would it be fair to say that Adobe
    also supports webOTF?"
  created: '2009-08-12 22:20:46'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>If it means that Adobe supports the discussion ... would it be fair
    to say that Adobe also supports webOTF?</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, particularly since
    it is something that is a maturation of preceding proposals. As you would probably
    guess, there is a pretty substantial leap between concepts and models that Adobe
    supports (by discussion) and business decisions it makes. This is not to say they're
    unrelated, but that there are a lot of meetings and tests which precede the latter.
    :)"
  created: '2009-08-12 23:20:26'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Hmmm. Thanks for the excellent input guys!\r\n\r\nTo revise: point2 - OpenType
    is not going away, as a DeskTop format. It is not being replaced as a Web format
    or by a Web format. OpenType is what web fonts are all deriving from now, and
    most likely for a generation, for all browsers.\r\n\r\nTo not revise point3 -
    a new web format will not prevent casual misuse. Users will do everything with
    the new format they did with OpenType. In most cases, OT web font users will not
    even know the difference, simply pointing to OT fonts on disk and never seeing
    resulting .web font files.\r\n\r\nJohn, you have been drawing an imaginary line
    with words, \"simply a new format will protect\". I say you are wrong, and am
    drawing the line in the OT font ahead of this nonsense. I have been on the right
    side, at the right time, for the format changes from Paper to Bitmap to Ikarus
    to PostScript to TrueType to OpenType. I have never been so accountable. \r\n\r\nBecause
    founders were not given a choice between these EOT, and whether to just add metadata
    to OT, and license that, they now are faced with two bad choices, (or one excellent
    good non-choice). Why? Because MS doesn't support their own format, and when it
    was 'our turn\" to add to that format, well it wasn't our turn. So long and thanks
    for the petite caps?\r\n\r\nAnd maybe because John says (to people who don't know
    better), things like ;\r\n\"What we're looking for is a format that is interoperable
    in terms of widespread browser support [good] and suitability to various kinds
    of licensing, rather than suitability only to free licensing [bad boy].\" \r\n\r\nCS
    reprise>To be honest, I\u2019m tired of the \u201Ca web font format won\u2019t
    protect anything\u201D meme.\r\n\r\nBut Chris, that is why we are here. MS 'said'
    \ \"Our OT format is Raw, as a web font format, won\u2019t protect anything and
    is not improvable by us, or anyone else.\" (although I will never get the memo).
    And John says OT as a web font is Naked, suited only to free licensing. ;)\r\n\r\nSo
    once again I am doing the 'right thing'. Because there is an us in users, we are
    putting meta data in our OT fonts. Though I am not working alone on this I can
    only speak for myself and say, I am looking at near-omega lists and post-alpha
    tools. \r\n\r\nWe will be putting this meta data into our fonts in the early fall.
    This meta data and the tools that read it, will address outstanding and new licensing
    issues, initially. Later, when it can demonstrated to the <em>interested</em>,
    much more interesting uses will come forth. \r\n\r\nThe only other brief brief
    I'll give you all, is that those who support the EPAR and its meta data, do so
    <em>entirely</em> without a herd to embolden them. Those who oppose the addition
    of this data to the OpenType format, might just say <em>anything</em> going forward.
    So, Heads-Up and My Advice is to follow those who \"are accountable.\" \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\nP.S.
    Chris, after this little tempest, the dedicated web font development community
    has to go on to repairing the latin readability meme-plex in low resolution screen
    typography, so you'll get clearer definition of a meme then. As this is 'the heart
    of the letter', the beta presentation of this will be at ATypI. You who've been
    present here over the years, know the alpha.\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-13 14:24:25'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@nick\r\n\"<em>However, a two-format appeals to me as a font manufacturer
    because I will be able to produce and market two kinds of OpenType font: one (.otf)
    for print and online display in bitmapped gif/png/jpeg files, that will be feature
    rich\u2014and another (.eotl) that will have fewer features but more nuanced screen
    hinting.</em>\"\r\n\r\nMarket-oriented thinking!\r\nI like it."
  created: '2009-08-13 16:30:28'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@john hudson\r\n\r\nJohn - the following paints a very wrong picture:\r\n\r\n&#8220;[And
    let\u2019s be clear that in terms of market share IE and Firefox are the only
    two browsers that count. Everything else is a niche product.]&#8221;\r\n\r\nJust
    because a browser\u2019s share of market is below a certain percentage doesn\u2019t
    mean it\u2019s not going to figure into the equation when a web site\u2019s creators
    decide on using web fonts or not.\r\nThere is a strong, strong pull towards authoring
    for the lowest common denominator (at the cost of not providing a superior, optimal
    experience for those using more recent and capable browsers - a philosophy I\u2019ve
    always found frustating.)\r\nIn this respect, Safari is no niche product. If web
    fonts can\u2019t be delivered to Mac users, many sites will pass on it until they
    can.\r\nSimilarly, Chrome hasn\u2019t got any market share worth talking about
    but because it\u2019s a Google product and has a higher share among developers,
    what it does and doesn\u2019t support has a far greater impact than it\u2019s
    numbers would suggest.\r\nShould Firefox support EOTL and .webOTF, that will be
    a very, very influential factor for the developers of Safari and Chrome. (IMHO)\r\nItty
    bitty Opera (which really is a niche product in every sense) has already signaled
    it has no choice but to follow where Firefox (and IE) lead.\r\nBut Safari is a
    big problem. Until they sign on to these formats, web fonts are still a very iffy
    proposition for web devs.\r\nThose who manage web sites - especially shopping
    sites where dollars are on the line - have an almost irrational fear of leaving
    users behind. Damn near phobic.\r\nSite managers will tend to shy away from new
    techniques far longer than it is rational for them to do so.\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-13 17:20:28'
- author:
    name: Vlad Levantovsky
    picture: 117231
  body: "@dberlow\r\n<em> To not revise point3 - a new web format will not prevent
    casual misuse</em>\r\n\r\nA new web format *will* prevent casual misuse, but it
    will not protect against a deliberate act of misuse \u2013 this is very important
    difference. \r\nBringing back a \u201Cgarden fence\u201D analogy \u2013 once in
    a lifetime everyone of us may find oneself trespassing on someone\u2019s private
    property if the property has no signs and no fence around it. Simply posting the
    sign \u201Cno trespassing\u201D, or putting a fence that can be easily jumped
    would prevent many people from trespassing. And I absolutely agree with Christopher
    Slye that a simple fact that web font format is different from one used on a desktop
    would require people to do something to web fonts to get them to work on a desktop.
    Many will stop right there and do nothing, some will be curious enough to find
    out why web fonts are not working on a desktop and what needs to be done to make
    them work \u2013 I am sure many will choose to not do it when they learn what
    they wanted to know. As a result, a web font format will significantly reduce
    casual misuse, and will require an informed decision for someone who is going
    to commit a deliberate act of converting a web font into a desktop format.\r\n\r\n<em>point1
    We need to put meta data in existing open and published font format </em>\r\n\r\nI
    agree, but this is something we can do today, without anybody\u2019s permission.
    What I particularly like about WebOTF proposal is that it offers opportunity for
    extensible metadata. There can be many reasons for this to be useful, and there
    can be many circumstances when the metadata included in the existing font may
    need to be different from what you want web users to see. For this reason (and
    compression, and other things) I have no doubt that WebOTF is a better long-term
    alternative to EOT-Lite.\r\n\r\nOn EOT-Lite:\r\nI agree that EOTL is not an ideal
    solution, and we do not have much flexibility in defining what EOTL is, because
    of the backward compatibility with legacy IE implementations. However, it\u2019s
    this very compatibility that makes it an attractive short-term solution, one that
    can bring web fonts to authors and all web users *today* and make web fonts a
    market reality for all of us tomorrow. Web authors are our potential customers,
    I don\u2019t see why we should tell them to wait another five years before we
    can agree on (and develop implementations for) an ideal solution. Rather, I would
    give them something they (and I) can live with today, and present them with much
    better solution five years from now. I am sure that it will benefit everybody
    \u2013 I consider EOTL a full-scale web font trial that will provide us with valuable
    feedback.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nVlad\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-13 17:36:31'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@Vlad\r\n\r\n&#8220;<em>I consider EOTL a full-scale web font trial that
    will provide us with valuable feedback.</em>&#8221;\r\n\r\nThank you for sharing
    this opinion. (This is one aspect of EOTL that's occurred to me and I've hesitated
    to write about it because I thought it might be construed as a bit of a reach.
    But I guess I'm not alone.)\r\nI absolutely agree. What deployment of EOTL <strong>is
    going to teach us about web fonts</strong> - implementors, web designers, web
    devs, type designers, all of us - is tons more valuable than years of debate and
    best-guesstimates at the W3C could ever give us. That we can so easily take an
    existing real-world solution and expand it to reach so many users in so short
    a time is a great stroke of luck in that regard.\r\nOne hell of a trial run, indeed.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nRich "
  created: '2009-08-14 00:49:43'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>The only other brief brief I\u2019ll give you all, is that those
    who support the EPAR and its meta data, do so entirely without a herd to embolden
    them. Those who oppose the addition of this data to the OpenType format, might
    just say anything going forward.</em>\r\n\r\nBut, David, as far as I know <em>no
    one</em> is opposing the addition of meta data to the OT format, at least in principle.
    There's going to be plenty of debate about what that meta data should contain
    and how it should be structured, but I think you'll find most font makers supportive
    of the idea.\r\n\r\nEPAR is not being opposed; rather, you've been asked two questions,
    neither of which you have answered:\r\n\r\nMy question: How do you see EPAR practically
    being used, i.e. in what kind of scenarios do you see this data being accessed
    and what actions result?\r\n\r\nThomas' question: do you think that \u2018having
    an EPAR table inside a dedicated web font format is a Bad Idea\u2019 and if so
    why?\r\n_____\r\n\r\n<em>Users will do everything with the new format they did
    with OpenType.</em>\r\n\r\nAnd some new things too. As explained multiple times
    by multiple people: a distinct format is a barrier to casually doing those new
    things to existing OpenType fonts. this is what various foundries have indicated
    that they want to protect against: widespread, casual and unthinking use of existing
    TTF and OTF fonts as web fonts, so that when entering the web font market they
    don't have to compete against unlicensed use of their own products."
  created: '2009-08-14 04:33:34'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Richard: <em>In this respect, Safari is no niche product.</em>\r\n\r\nOr,
    rather, the nature of its niche makes makes it more important than its mere market
    share would. This is a fair point, and I accept your analysis."
  created: '2009-08-14 04:35:05'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "An excellent observation. \r\n\r\nVlad>A new web format *will* prevent casual
    misuse, but it will not protect against a deliberate act of misuse \u2013 this
    is [a] very important difference.\r\n\r\nMost users have never served a font.
    So... if doing something entirely new is not a deliberate act, I'm not sure what
    is \"a very important difference\"?\r\n\r\nMost users have never converted a font.
    So... if doing something entirely new is not a deliberate act, I'm not sure what
    is... either. \r\n\r\n>Thomas\u2019 question: do you think that \u2018having an
    EPAR table inside a dedicated web font format is a Bad Idea\u2019 and if so why?\r\n\r\nI
    assume by 'dedicated web font format' you mean a font format intended exclusively
    to be served by file name at the ends of urls, to user's machines with full interoperability,
    a format devoted to being served via linking?\r\n\r\nIt depends on the format.
    In the case of EOT, I have consistently expressed that if the font format is called,
    Embeddable OpenType, then the EPAR inside could say that the font is not for embedding,
    I won't support that. The format is dedicated to linking served fonts to described
    contents, and we have enough educational problems left from this font war. Also,
    as expressed much earlier, if this dedicated font format uses 'meta-data' intended
    for the permitting of actual embedding, I would not like to support it's repurposing
    of that meta-data for serving or linking permissions ... at all. \r\n\r\nIf these
    things are solved, and if MS doesn't want EPAR in OT, but it's arms're open to
    EPAR in EOT or EOTL, why not? But then again, does that make sense to you? \r\n\r\nAs
    for the other font format proposal, how would anybody know that having an EPAR
    table inside would be good? But... if I hear \"let's do this .webfont conversion
    thing, take it to the streets ASAP, and then add whatever into this marvelous
    extendable format\" I'd be against that. We have a marvelous extendable format,
    and that must be the source of all of the new format with exception perhaps of
    some point-of-license microdata. Otherwise, there will so much expense in this,
    no one will like it. \r\n\r\nSo, as EOT stands, there are two things in the way?
    As .webfonts stands, there's nothing in the way yet? But they both stand in the
    way of OT, which is not going away.\r\n\r\nJohn, I know the question. I'm gathering
    time. \"Casual misuse\" was introduced . . . \"unthinking use of existing TTF
    and OTF fonts\" and \"only freely licenable\" ...it all takes so much time. :-)\r\n\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-14 19:59:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>It depends on the format. In the case of EOT, I have consistently
    expressed that if the font format is called, Embeddable OpenType, then the EPAR
    inside could say that the font is not for embedding, I won\u2019t support that.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat's
    in a name? I agree that it would make no sense to call something 'Embeddable'
    and at the same time have a table in the font, or even simply the license agreement
    in the name table, say that the font is not embeddable. It would confuse people.
    But EOT was never short for \"Embeddable OpenType\", it has always been short
    for '<em>Embedded</em> OpenType\", and if a font is embedded but the tables say
    it must not be embedded then that isn't confusing at all: it's a clear violation.\r\n\r\nIt
    should also be noted that EOT Lite is only a working name, and various people
    on the W3C list, not least H\xE5kon Lie, have already insisted that if this proposal
    is to become a recommended format then the name must be changed to something that
    does not reference EOT, so as to avoid confusion and to avoid the suggestion that
    browsers supporting 'whatever EOTL will end up being called' need to do something,
    anything with EOT files.\r\n\r\nSo maybe its helpful to think not in terms of
    EOTL but instead of a distinctly named similar format that happens to be backwards
    compatible with EOT support in IE.\r\n\r\n<em>Also, as expressed much earlier,
    if this dedicated font format uses \u2019meta-data\u2019 intended for the permitting
    of actual embedding, I would not like to support it\u2019s repurposing of that
    meta-data for serving or linking permissions ... at all.</em>\r\n\r\nThe terms
    'embedding' and 'linking' are used confusedly and interchangeably and without
    clear definition. This is why no one seems quite sure whether the OS/2 embedding
    bits relate to web use in any way; apparently they were originally conceived of
    as relating to such use, but now seem to imply something quite different, despite
    Microsoft historical use of 'embedded' in the context of web linked EOT files.
    And then there is embedding within an application or a game, etc., whether online
    or on disc, and that is quite different from document embedding or web linking.
    Terminologically, its a mess.\r\n\r\n<em>If these things are solved, and if MS
    doesn\u2019t want EPAR in OT, but it\u2019s arms\u2019re open to EPAR in EOT or
    EOTL, why not? But then again, does that make sense to you?</em>\r\n\r\nIs this
    what you've heard from anyone at MS? I can sort of imagine the argument that adding
    EPAR to OT implies possible widespread system and application updates to do something
    (what?) with that data, whereas if EPAR is limited to a specifically web font
    format then only browsers are, possibly, on the hook to do something (what?) with
    the data. That looks to me like the kind of MS argument I'm familiar with.\r\n\r\n<em>We
    have a marvelous extendable format, and that must be the source of all of the
    new format with exception perhaps of some point-of-license microdata.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    basically agree with that, and I think a distinction between font level metadata
    and 'point-of-license' microdata is probably a useful one, given that it looks
    like we're going to need criteria to determine what belongs in font data and what
    belongs at the header level.\r\n\r\nBut you are going to have to move <em>Real
    Fast</em> if you want EPAR to be into OT/OFF before an interoperable web font
    format is becomes a reality. The browser makers have got it into their heads to
    come up with an interoperable solution to using more fonts on the web, and the
    factors pushing them -- <em>and the degree to which they are pushing each other</em>
    -- are well outside of the control of font makers."
  created: '2009-08-15 00:08:34'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "John Hudson wrote: <cite> this is what various foundries have indicated that
    they want to protect against: widespread, casual and unthinking use of existing
    TTF and OTF fonts as web fonts</cite>\r\n\r\nI would have said it is the other
    way around, the foundries have indicated they want to have a distinct format to
    protect against widespread, casual and unthinking use of the new web fonts as
    desktop fonts.\r\n\r\nBut maybe I've missed some discussion of the converse being
    true as well? (Note: I don't accept Thomas Lord's assertion as evidence.)\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-08-15 07:50:52'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Thomas, the point about the vulnerability of existing desktop fonts to use
    as web fonts, due to ignorance of licensing terms, was made by Christopher during
    the pre-panel meeting at TypeCon, and I believe Ivo and others concurred. I think
    it is a valid concern, and in some respects more immediate than the casual and
    unthinking use of web fonts as desktop fonts. Without the format distinction,
    there isn''t really any such thing as a web font: there is just a desktop font
    being used on the web and then downloaded and used on someone else''s desktop,
    and without any way of telling where the font came from.'
  created: '2009-08-15 19:33:37'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John>  So maybe [] think [] of EOTL[,] but instead of a distinctly named
    similar format [one] that happens to be backwards compatible with EOT support
    in IE.\r\n\r\nDoes this 'backward compatibility' <strong>still</strong> include
    ambiguously 'web serving' fonts permitted by founders only for embedding in a
    document?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-08-16 15:29:42'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>Does this \u2019backward compatibility\u2019 still include ambiguously
    \u2019web serving\u2019 fonts permitted by founders only for embedding in a document?</em>\r\n\r\nBackwards
    compatibility means that a newly defined web font format with the same file header
    and fontdata arrangement as an EOT font and a recognised <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magic_number_%28programming%29\">magic
    number</a> will be displayed in IE6, IE7 and IE8 using existing EOT handling.
    Because the newly defined format is specifically a format for web font linking,
    it shouldn't be used for any font that is only licensed for embedding in a document.
    Where's the issue?\r\n\r\nHistorically, there's a terminological and practical
    disconnect that renders the OT embedding bits virtually meaningless. The EOT spec
    relates them specifically to font linking on the web, only refers to such linking
    as embedding and to linked fonts as embedded fonts: <a href=\"http://www.w3.org/Submission/EOT/#EmbeddingLevel\"><em>Applications
    that implement support for font embedding must not embed fonts which are not licensed
    to permit embedding. Further, applications loading embedded fonts for temporary
    use (see Preview & Print and Editable embedding below) must delete the fonts from
    the device when the document containing the embedded font is closed.</em></a>
    Sure, terminologically it is confused, but this was the spec for a font file format
    specifically intended for linking in web pages using @font-face: 'embedding' in
    this context can only mean web linking.\r\n\r\nBut in the long period during which
    EOT was largely ignored by font makers and web designers (outside of complex script
    countries), the embedding bits came to be associated with document embedding rather
    than web linking, to such an extent that the browsers now implementing naked font
    linking feel justified in simply ignoring the embedding bits entirely as if they
    have\u2014and have never had\u2014any relevance to web font linking.\r\n\r\nThis
    is where, theoretically, something like EPAR comes in, to clarify what the embedding
    bits now only obscure or confuse. But <em>if</em> the existing embedding bits
    had retained in peoples' minds their EOT-specified relationship to web linking,
    and <em>if</em> the Monotype vs. Adobe court decision over PDF embedding had not
    determined that these bits did not constitute a technological protection under
    the terms of the DMCA, <em>then</em> I don't think we'd see any naked font linking
    of TTF and OTF fonts, because the non-IE browser makers have indicated that they
    refuse to get involved in any enforcement that might make them liable under DMCA,
    and more generally just don't want to get involved in anything that looks like
    rights/permissions management. In other words, naked font linking is only possible
    for them because they consider the embedding bits completely ignorable.\r\n\r\nSo
    this is why I'm wondering how EPAR is supposed to affect any of this? It seems
    to me that either EPAR is ignorable, in which case these browsers will ignore
    it as they ignore the embedding bits, or it is not ignorable, in which case they
    will refuse to touch fonts that contain it, as they refuse to touch EOT fonts
    that contain rootstrings."
  created: '2009-08-16 22:20:33'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Whew! So ask a simple question...\r\n\r\nJohn's answer, is that EOT cannot
    be changed, (except to provide less protection as the 'other' browser-makers see
    fit). So if one browser maker (MS) wants to repurpose our permissions, and the
    rest want to ignore them completely, we have to make sure a competent and dedicated
    format is developed so users at least can be informed if they choose. \r\n\r\nMaybe
    EPAR is ignorable, designed that way to suit the needs of browsers, but it is
    apparently without competition in this area, and as such, it is already irreplaceable.\r\n\r\nFrom
    the EOT spec: \r\n\r\n<strong>\"There exists a need for a mechanism to allow people
    who have licensed the font for use with their documents a way to also use the
    font for their web content without violating the EULA agreement which they have
    accepted.\" </strong>\r\n\r\nEOT is not only not solving this problem: it makes
    a single permission, into a double permission, without permission.\r\n\r\nSo my
    position remains that without having one permission (at LEAST), dedicated exclusively
    to \"serving\", a font format is not a web font format. \r\n\r\nEOT was made as
    a PDF competitor. Precisely because it failed to do that, I'd rather not allow
    it to become a killer of PDF font embedding. It's not really good at anything,
    and that's why we ignored it John. \r\n\r\nThis week, let's count actual heads
    on this. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-08-17 13:14:45'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: '[How to close the "strong" tag? Just the end tag does not seem to work.]'
  created: '2009-08-17 14:21:17'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: Hmmm.</strong> You're right, it doesn't. <strong> Guess we need a moderator
    in this case.</strong>
  created: '2009-08-17 18:28:36'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "</strong></strong>\r\nI just saw there were actually 2 open ones. Seems to
    be OK now. Carry on :)"
  created: '2009-08-17 19:02:17'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Guess we need a moderator in this case.</em>\r\nthis is always the best
    and probably simplest (if not the most immediate) option."
  created: '2009-08-17 21:09:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, why are you talking about EOT?\r\n\r\nEOT is irrelevant. We're not
    talking about licensing fonts for EOT, we're talking about licensing fonts for
    new formats, one of which has the practical benefit of being recognised by EOT
    implementations in existing IE browsers. From a licensing perspective, its something
    distinct from EOT, and hence what EOT did or did not permit isn't an issue. You
    specify in your license agreement for the new format web fonts what is allowed
    and what is is not allowed, and the fact that it is a new format clarifies the
    scope of the license agreement, i.e. the license applies to this file format,
    not to any other.\r\n\r\nAmong the points agreed by the browser makers on the
    W3C list is that under \u2018EOT Lite\u2019 implementation \r\n\r\n1) the new
    EOTL fonts will need to be recognisably distinct from EOTC (\u2018EOT classic\u2019)
    fonts, such that\r\n\r\n2) EOTL fonts will be backwards compatible with EOTC handling
    in IE7\u20138 but EOTC fonts will <em>not</em> be forwards compatible with EOTL
    handling in browsers.\r\n\r\nThere's also generally agreement that EOTL should
    be renamed in some way that does not reference EOT, specifically so that browsers
    are not led to believe that they need to do anything with existing EOTC fonts.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-18 02:16:12'
- author:
    name: TheOtherNick
    picture: 117624
  body: "I was contacted a few weeks back by a web developer who wanted permission
    to convert one of my freeware fonts into the Cuf\xF3n format for web display.
    After receiving a bit of \"edumacation\" on the subject, I said OK. Cuf\xF3n is
    NOT a font format, <em>per se</em>: it uses Javascript to build the font outlines.\r\n\r\nThe
    Cuf\xF3n \"system\" uses one Javascript file to perform swaps with HTML tags (&lt;h1&gt;
    through &lt;h6&gt;, &lt;p&gt;, etc.), and separate Javascript files contain the
    font data. Theoretically, you can domain-restrict use of Cuf\xF3n font data but,
    since the Javascript file can be edited in any simple text editor, it's not a
    terribly secure system; on the other hand, Cuf\xF3n can ONLY be used on web pages,
    so that's an upside."
  created: '2009-08-18 03:17:32'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "KL>[How to close the \u201Cstrong\u201D tag? Just the end tag does not seem
    to work.]\r\n\r\nI coded it properly, previewed it as per my way. Saw no problem
    and went back to the beach. \r\nSorry for any apparent neglect on my part for
    the perfect appearance of my post.\r\n\r\nKent>... Guess we need a moderator in
    this case.\r\n\r\nKent you ignorant stencil, I think we only need moderators when
    two or more members erupt into personal, rather that issue-related spitballing.
    ;)\r\n\r\n John>David, why are you talking about EOT?\r\n\r\nJohn you ignorant
    bitmap, ;) I am talking about EOT because your last post linked to the W3C's/EOT
    specification without warning, exposing my gentle nature to the aggravated assault
    of their logo, colors and fonts, not the mention the EOT specification itself.\r\n\r\n<em>I
    am also talking about EOT because it's only proposal on the table that, (correct
    me if I'm wrong),  makes 10s of 1000s, perhaps a 100,000 fonts in the field today,
    legal to serve without the IP owners permission, and with no options, I'm disagreeing
    with it's further development without substantial change.</em>\r\n\r\nAre any
    of these fonts with embedding set to any form of \"yes\" yours by the way?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-08-18 11:16:51'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, I linked to the EOT spec in order to point out that the OS/2 embedding
    bits were explicitly specified in terms of what we now call web linking, not document
    embedding. You can say that EOT incorrectly interprets these embedding bits as
    permitting web linking, but one could just as easily say that font makers have
    incorrectly interpreted them as permitting document embedding as something distinct
    from web linking. Best, perhaps, to say that the embedding bits were poorly and
    ambiguously specified in both the OT and EOT specs.\r\n\r\nI think this ambiguity
    should be addressed in the new EOT-derived web font format. But how to do this?
    The easiest way would be to simply state that the OS/2 embedding bits are irrelevant
    to web linking in the new format, and should be taken neither as permission to
    link nor as denial of permission. In other words, for the purpose of web linking,
    these bits are ignorable. This is easiest because it is what the non-IE browsers
    are already doing with regard to embedding bits in naked font linking.\r\n\r\nHow
    about if the text of the EOTL proposal is changed to specify that the embedding
    bits are not indicative of permitting web font linking, and that fonts should
    only be converted to EOTL -- i.e. whatever it ends up being called -- if the license
    explicitly permits this. Does that resolve the problem? So long as the <em>functional</em>
    compatibility of EOTL, i.e. the ability of these new format fonts to function
    like EOT in IE6\u20138, is not affected (because that would render the format
    pointless), there is nothing in the EOTL proposal that isn't open to revision."
  created: '2009-08-18 22:50:02'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "<cite>Kent you ignorant stencil, I think we only need moderators when two
    or more members erupt into personal, rather that issue-related spitballing. ;)</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    remember a TypeCon where Kent and I tied for second place in the Type Quiz. I
    don't think that one can reasonably call him ignorant, even if a wink is involved.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-08-19 06:35:20'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "John: Your proposal sounds reasonable to me.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-08-19 06:37:16'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John> Best, perhaps, to say that the embedding bits were poorly and ambiguously
    specified in both the OT and EOT specs.\r\n\r\nAgreed. What's in a name, you asked?
    What sin a name, I answer. TrueType became TrueType Open, became OpenType, became
    Open Font Format (did I miss TrueOpen, somewhere). All are extensions to one expendable
    format. When I ask(ed) MS people about why: \"We know its confusing,\" they said,
    period, i.e. no but, no sorry, nothing. It all makes perfect sense to me now.
    I just have to explain to everyone else, costing extra time and money, and that
    must suit someone, right? The world is massively confused about his format. That
    must suit someone, right?\r\n\r\nJohn>I think this ambiguity should be addressed
    in the new EOT-derived web font format.\r\n\r\nI think this long-running history
    of ambiguity should be snuffed out. It is a strategy based, IMHO, on a childhood
    that's over. \r\n\r\nThomas> John: Your proposal sounds reasonable to me.\r\n\r\nFunny,
    so did 'your' proposal of around 2002, Thomas, to use these bits for document
    embedding permissions. Actually, we had no choice, PDF was a loaded gun, put to
    our heads, and founders were 'given' an offer we couldn't refuse. But it must
    seem funny now to someone.\r\n\r\nI, at least however, went on stage, and gave
    a presentation called, \"Email; Type into the breach\". I said we were missing
    a mechanism. Now, I can't wait anymore for the names to be straightened out, I'm
    doin' it myself. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-20 11:22:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "David, I've found it useful to upgrade my typefaces as OpenType (.otf).\r\nThat
    way, it signals users that they're getting something with different capabilities.\r\nMore
    features and characters, hence the higher price.\r\nAn alternative would be to
    give the fonts version numbers or big cat names.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-20 16:00:22'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@davidberlow\r\n\r\n\"<em>TrueType became TrueType Open, became OpenType,
    became Open Font Format (did I miss TrueOpen, somewhere). All are extensions to
    one expendable format. When I ask(ed) MS people about why: \u201CWe know its confusing,\u201D
    they said, period, i.e. no but, no sorry, nothing. It all makes perfect sense
    to me now. I just have to explain to everyone else, costing extra time and money,
    and that must suit someone, right? The world is massively confused about his format.
    That must suit someone, right?</em>\"\r\n\r\nI'm always entertained, but when
    I can actually figure out what you're trying to say, I usually disagree with you.\r\nNot
    with this. Pawns on a chessboard we are, for sure.\r\nCrafters of the software
    components like you and guys with the rubber mallets trying to get them to work,
    like me.\r\n\r\nThat said, there are decisions to be made regarding font-linking.
    It's been reported that Font Bureau is going to be offering web font licenses
    shortly. True?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-20 17:25:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>I think this long-running history of ambiguity should be snuffed
    out. It is a strategy based, IMHO, on a childhood that\u2019s over.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    agree. My concern now is that since EOTL seems to be moving toward at least interim
    support as an interoperable web font format <em>whether we like it or not,</em>
    it should not, in your words, get in the way of something like EPAR. So I want
    to figure out how to revise the EOTL proposal such that the ambiguity over embedding
    bit meaning is removed. And the best way to do that seems to be to explicitly
    state that the embedding bits should <em>not</em> be regarded as either permitting
    or denying web font linking, i.e. that they should be ignored for this purpose.
    This seems to me to suit everyone: it gives the okay to the non-IE browsers to
    do what they are going to do anyway, while removing the ambiguity that causes
    concern to font makers, and pointing users toward the license agreement rather
    than possible misinterpretation of the embedding bits. Does this make sense to
    you, David? Is this something I can usefully push on the W3C list as a means to
    ensure that EOTL doesn't get in your way?"
  created: '2009-08-20 18:25:22'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Pawns on a chessboard we are, for sure.</em>\r\n\r\nIt must be a <a href=\"http://www.chessvariants.com/historic.dir/chaturang4.html\">chaturanga</a>
    board, because there are definitely more than two players. :)"
  created: '2009-08-20 18:31:07'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@johnhudson\r\n\r\n\"<em>definitely more than two players</em>\"\r\nThat's
    for sure. Let's check with Phinney, I just discovered he's a <a href=\"http://www.boardgamegeek.com/collection/user/tphinney?own=1&ff=1\">board
    game</a> aficionado and collector."
  created: '2009-08-21 04:28:34'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Speaking of Thomas, the point he has just raised on the W3C list should be
    given some attention:\r\n\r\nhttp://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-font/2009JulSep/1328.html"
  created: '2009-08-21 06:13:02'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "There aren't any grand conspiracies here, I'm pretty certain.\r\n\r\n@David:
    At the time, in 2002, it seemed more reasonable to use the embedding bits to determine
    Acrobat behavior than to just let Acrobat embed any and all fonts. I don't think
    that was much of a gun at anybody's head, though. Almost all foundries were okay
    with preview/print embedding, while form field fill-out and more exotic options
    were pretty far from commonplace in PDF at the time.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-08-21 06:49:28'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Nick> David, I\u2019ve found it useful to upgrade my typefaces as OpenType
    (.otf).\r\n\r\nYeah, granted, but the same upgraded-ness could be signified by
    saying your new fonts were TT4 vs. TT3.\r\n\r\nRich >...Font Bureau is going to
    be offering web font licenses shortly. True?\r\n\r\nIn essence, clients willing
    today to choose the format recognized by the majority of browsers, may get a custom
    licensed web font to serve, but only during business hours can the 'shortly' occur.
    \r\n\r\nThomas> I don\u2019t think that was much of a gun at anybody\u2019s head...it
    seemed more reasonable to use the embedding bits to determine Acrobat behavior
    than to just let Acrobat embed any and all fonts.\r\n\r\nThomas... I switched
    the sentence order, that's all. You were saying? ;)\r\n\r\nSo that being said,
    I think I should change the discussion vector slightly.\r\n\r\nJohn> It must be
    a chaturanga board, because there are definitely more than two players. :)\r\n\r\nIt's
    just 2-d.\r\n\r\nJohn>  the point he has just raised on the W3C list should be
    given some attention...\r\n\r\nFont families, is one of about, 30 points, in my
    opinion. Nearly each and every category of the developing EPAR table, will need
    a subset of a working group working on it. It's just 30-d.\r\n\r\nMy understanding
    has always been that this discussion was towards the formation of a W3C working
    group on fonts (better perhaps on typography). We have too many formats, and not
    enough reasons for them.\r\n\r\nJohn> I want to figure out how to revise the EOTL
    proposal such that the ambiguity over embedding bit meaning is removed. And the
    best way to do that seems to be to explicitly state that the embedding bits should
    not be regarded as either permitting or denying web font linking, i.e. that they
    should be ignored for this purpose.\r\n\r\nI think the best way is to remove the
    format, not ignore it's parts. A standard format should not have additional 'features'
    hidden by lack of documentation, or documented to be unused. Layering ambiguity
    does not help. Some tests are being run on this with us and Ascender. \r\n\r\nJohn>...it
    gives the okay to the non-IE browsers to do what they are going to do anyway,
    \r\n\r\nNo different than if they were using OT. \r\n\r\nJohn> Does this make
    sense to you, David?\r\n\r\nWhat makes sense to me, is that EOT is no longer dressed
    to solve the problem for which MS proposed it. So, I don't think it is a good
    candidate for temp or full time employment into the future. \r\n\r\nI'd like to
    know from MS, how to revise <em>their OT spec</em> to suit their needs, regardless
    of how expensive they want me to get in revising <em>their OT font format</em>.
    What would it take? if they continue to say NO, then I'm done, because OT is not
    going away from the desktop, or the web, so it's the new gun to our heads and
    no one can change that position, we can only change what's in the chamber. That's
    my plan, that's been my plan, that remains my plan. \r\n\r\nI do appreciate how
    hard you too are working this problem. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-21 12:10:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, again:\r\n\r\n<em>If</em> EOTL were not to go away, currently looks
    like the case, do you agree that it would be best for the format spec to explicitly
    state that OS/2 embedding bits are not to be used to determine permissions for
    web linking?\r\n\r\nI want to get this right, in case we do end up stuck with
    EOTL for at least some period as the most widely supported interoperable fotrmat."
  created: '2009-08-21 18:32:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>OT is not going away from the desktop, or the web, so it\u2019s
    the new gun to our heads and no one can change that position...</em>\r\n\r\nSee,
    we disagree about this. Microsoft have already changed that position by saying
    that naked font linking will not be supported in IE, which means it won't be an
    option for most browser users. At that point, it hardly matters whether the other
    browsers support it or not, because a non-interoperable web font format is not
    a web font format with any future. The non-IE browser makers appear to understand
    this, which is why they are busy testing code for both EOTL and WebOTF.\r\n\r\nBecause
    of the compatibility benefit of EOTL, I'd say that this is very much the gun to
    our heads at the moment or, rather, the gun currently being pushed with the most
    pressure. So I think it is important to get it as clean as possible, to avoid
    infection if the gun goes off. :)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-21 18:38:25'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Microsoft have already changed that position by saying that naked font linking
    will not be supported in IE\r\n\r\nChanged? What are naked fonts? They and you,
    have not changed a bit. \r\n\r\n> At that point, it hardly matters whether the
    other browsers support it or not, because a non-interoperable web font format
    is not a web font format with any future. \r\n\r\nMaybe! But then again, maybe
    MS just likes the networked user, is not involved in the world wide web the same
    way as others and that sticks out as time goes by, even more than it has on this
    issue. \r\n\r\n>The non-IE browser makers appear to understand this, which is
    why they are busy testing code for both EOTL and WebOTF.\r\n\r\nBut perhaps they
    simply are ignoring the legal eye of the needle they can't squeeze their camel
    through, because MS can. \r\n\r\n>I\u2019d say that this is very much the gun
    to our heads at the moment\r\n\r\nNice, thanks. I can see why they can't speak
    for themselves. But if they want to, I'll be <em>right here</em> no matter how
    many times that gun goes off.  ;)\r\n\r\n>do you agree that it would be best for
    the format spec to explicitly state that OS/2 embedding bits are not to be used
    to determine permissions for web linking?\r\n\r\nSo a developer would have to
    read the font specification in order to learn how to legally font serve? Yum!\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-21 22:23:30'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>So a developer would have to read the font specification in order
    to learn how to legally font serve? Yum!</em>\r\n\r\nNo, the web developer reads
    the EULA or, maybe one day, has an EPAR reading tool that tells him whether a
    font may be legally served on the web. The point of making an explicit statement
    re. embedding bits in the format spec is to make it <em>legally</em> unambiguous
    that these bits are not to be taken by user agents, font conversion tools etc.
    as permitting web linking for fonts.\r\n\r\nActually, the more I think about this,
    the less it appears to be in any way limited to an EOT-derived format: the ambiguity
    of the possible interpretation of embedding bits is an OT problem and affects
    any use of fonts on the web, including TTF/OTF. Simply adding an EPAR table without
    clarifying the status of the embedding bits doesn't resolve this ambiguity: it
    just adds the possibility of embedding bits and EPAR fields being contradictory.\r\n\r\nSo
    here's a suggestion for a two-pronged clarification:\r\n\r\n1. Revise text re.
    embedding bits in the OT spec to make clear what is and is not meant by 'document
    embedding'. State that embedding bits henceforth do not apply to web linking.\r\n\r\n2.
    Revise the text re. embedding bits in the EOTL proposal to explicitly state that
    embedding bits do not apply to web linking. [I still think this is necessary,
    even if the OT spec is revised, because this interpretation of embeddding bits
    is directly contrary to the old EOT spec, and hence needs to be explicit in the
    new format proposal.]"
  created: '2009-08-22 00:03:17'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@david berlow et al:\r\n\r\n\"<em>My understanding has always been that this
    discussion was towards the formation of a W3C working group on fonts...</em>\"\r\n\r\nUmm,
    no. My sources tell me the aim is to create a defacto standard with, at least,
    Mozilla and MSFT on board. A working group would, hopefully, follow. Certain W3C
    members have made it clear that they have no interest in going down this path.
    No matter how common-sensical and beneficial to end users it might be.\r\nThis
    gibes with my overall impression of the situation as it's evolved, as well.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-22 19:39:55'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "My understanding is the same as Richard's on this. I am told that this is
    in fact the way the W3C usually works: a working group ends up rubber-stamping
    some standard that has already been created, rather than creating a standard itself.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-08-23 06:29:42'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Too bad. \r\n\r\nAdios Amigos e Amigas e et al!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-23 13:32:09'
- author:
    name: outrasfontes
    picture: 112120
  body: "Meus amigos, minhas amigas,\r\n\r\nMiss Tifanny originally asked also who
    are going to use Typekit.\r\n\r\nWhile this productive discussion is going on
    (and I'm leaning a lot with it), I'm trying middle-way solutions like that. Some
    of my fonts is already working in their beta. \r\n\r\nhttp://www.outrasfontes.com/typekit1.htm\r\nhttp://www.outrasfontes.com/typekit-samples.htm\r\n\r\nUnder
    Windows you'll notice that hintings is still far from perfect, but you'll also
    see that these fonts was originally designed for headings, not for running texts
    in small body sizes. Opinions from the respected type jedis and from web designers
    are always very welcome. ;-)"
  created: '2009-08-24 17:40:09'
- author:
    name: Vlad Levantovsky
    picture: 117231
  body: "With so many discussions going on multiple different threads about different
    web font formats, I just realized that Monotype Imaging is not mentioned as a
    supporter of the .webfont/WebOTF/WOFF format. For the sake of clarify and full
    disclosure - we do like and support this format.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nVlad\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-13 21:16:05'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@vlad\r\nI was reading Monotype's EULA just two nights ago, are you saying
    you've added WOFF to it along with EOTL?\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nRich"
  created: '2009-10-14 04:24:35'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: " >I was reading Monotype\u2019s EULA just two nights ago, are you saying
    you\u2019ve added WOFF to it along with EOTL?\r\n\r\nThis is a bit unfair. How
    many of the WOFF \"supporting\" vendors have adjusted their EULAs? Also and how
    many browsers currently support WOFF? My guess the number is the same. \r\n"
  created: '2009-10-14 04:38:41'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Why is it unfair? Reading into things and a bit touchy, methinks, Si.\r\nMaybe
    someone will take Vlad's statement, make some asumptions, convert a Monotype font
    with WOFF and post it on a web server in violation of Montype's EULA.\r\nDon't
    you want to prevent such a thing?\r\nWhat's wrong with clarity?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-14 04:57:08'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Touchy, moi?\r\n\r\n>Maybe someone will take Vlad\u2019s statement, make
    some asumptions, convert a Monotype font with WOFF and post it on a web server
    in violation of Montype\u2019s EULA.\r\n\r\nThe same is true for every vendor
    that claims to \"support\" WOFF. AFAIK no one has clarified what \"support\" means
    for any of the vendors on the supporters list. I think it's valid to ask everyone
    what support means, not just Monotype - hence the unfair comment.   "
  created: '2009-10-14 05:10:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Richard, considering that this entire thread was predicated on support statements
    of support in the sense of 'We like this idea and encourage its development and
    adoption by browsers', I see no reason why anyone of good faith would try to interpret
    Vlad's comments as implying some other kind of support.
  created: '2009-10-14 06:41:41'
- author:
    name: Vlad Levantovsky
    picture: 117231
  body: "First of all, to make things clear (again ;) - nothing has changed in my
    position wrt WebOTF/WOFF. I liked this technology back then (http://typophile.com/node/60220#comment-361492),
    and I still like it today. \r\nThe reason for my post was the realization that
    the list of foundries maintained by Tiffany (http://tr.im/sF8B) didn't mention
    Monotype, and I figured I should make it clear. We do support WOFF in the same
    context as it's defined on that page: \"The term \u201Csupport\u201D is understood
    to be general approval of the proposal and its intentions, not an exclusive commitment
    to it, or a formal endorsement of it.\"\r\n\r\nVlad\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-14 17:39:59'
- author:
    name: Vlad Levantovsky
    picture: 117231
  body: "WebFonts Working Group is approved by W3C!\r\n\r\nThe announcement went out
    yesterday to all W3C members, and the public announcement is coming soon to the
    News section of the W3C website. For detailed information about the group and
    how to join (if you are interested to participate) please see [[http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-font/2010JanMar/0044.html|the
    announcement on www-font list]].\r\n\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nVladimir\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-18 18:21:20'
date: '2009-07-22 23:58:07'
title: Foundries! .webfonts, EOT, or EOT Lite? And Typekit?

---
