---
author:
  name: Tim Brown
  picture: 110622
body: "Hi all,\r\n\r\nWeb licensing issues aside, what do you think of this type review
  I wrote recently, and my typeset example?\r\n\r\nBlog post:\r\nhttp://nicewebtype.com/notes/2009/07/24/nice-web-type-likes-bello-pro-and-proxima-nova/\r\n\r\nExample:\r\nhttp://nicewebtype.com/fonts/bello-and-proxima-nova/\r\n\r\nIf
  you\u2019re not sure where to start, consider (from the text in the example page
  itself) any of my opinions about the two faces and how to use them on the web. Do
  you agree? Do you disagree? Why? Also, please criticize the typesetting of the example
  itself.\r\n\r\nIf we want web typography to be respected as a part of our art and
  craft, web typesetting deserves our fullest criticism \u2013 judging the work on
  aesthetic merits while accounting for available technologies.\r\n\r\nTim"
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: 'Proxima Nova makes one hell of a good web text face. '
  created: '2009-07-24 18:31:06'
- author:
    name: Tim Brown
    picture: 110622
  body: Word.
  created: '2009-07-24 18:35:09'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The headline type looks good. The rendering of the Proxima Nova text is terrible
    (Windows, Firefox). This is, as Si Daniels put it, the 'elephant in the room'
    that no one is talking about: fonts look different in different browsers and on
    different platforms, and once one strays beyond well-hinted TrueType the quality
    can vary immensely. A font that looks good in one browser on one platform may
    be almost unreadable elsewhere. This is something that would-be web typographers
    are going to need to anticipate and test.\r\n\r\nThe so-called 'web safe' fonts
    like Verdana are safe not only in being installed on almost all computers, but
    also safe in the sense of being readable under a wide variety of different rendering
    systems and browsers, i.e. they are safe in a way analogous to web safe colours."
  created: '2009-07-24 18:54:30'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Scrolling presents occasional missing bottom parts of some lines: \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_5680.gif]\r\n(Safari
    on OSX)"
  created: '2009-07-24 19:00:40'
- author:
    name: Tim Brown
    picture: 110622
  body: "Excellent point, John. I'm cooking something up to help web typographers
    with that....\r\n\r\nI noticed that too Craig, thanks for showing others in case
    they didn't notice. It's a pretty big annoyance and it affects legibility \u2013\_especially
    for a geometric sans like Proxima Nova."
  created: '2009-07-24 19:08:49'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>his is, as Si Daniels put it, the \u2019elephant in the room\u2019
    that no one is talking about: fonts look different in different browsers and on
    different platforms, and once one strays beyond well-hinted TrueType the quality
    can vary immensely.</cite>\r\n\r\nSomething that\u2019s been on my mind lately
    is that Microsoft needs to rethink how it helps type designers with designing
    fonts that will render well on Windows. I realize that there\u2019s already a
    great deal of information, and VTT, available to us at Microsoft.com. And I realize
    that there are some strong arguments in favor of manually-hinted TrueType fonts
    with deltas for different sizes. But wading through the documentation and the
    software is not easy and takes a <em>lot</em> of time, especially compared to
    Adobe\u2019s autohint-it-and-forget-it approach. Something along the lines of
    <em>Using Fontlab to hint TrueType fonts for use on Windows for Dummies</em> would
    be a really big help right now."
  created: '2009-07-24 19:20:34'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Wrong way, James.\r\nApple gave proof of concept that type can be rasterized
    in readable way (\"Proxima Nova makes one hell of a good web text face.\"), and
    it does not matter if your font is TTF, CFF-OTF, hinted or not. I am particularly
    unfair now, but compare an unhinted TTF rasterized in Windows and in OSX. In Windows,
    with standard greyscaling you get a washed-out grey at text sizes (the thing Windows
    users blame OSX rasterization of) and with ClearType rasterization your horizontals
    cause problems at text sizes. Not so in OSX -- there you can even recognize the
    original design.\r\nThere's nothing wrong with fonts. Something's wrong with some
    rasterizers.\r\n\r\nWith @font-face and arbitrary fonts rather than a handful
    of especially adjusted fonts, perhaps Windows users will come to appreciate Safari's
    own rasterizer?"
  created: '2009-07-24 20:07:02'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Karsten, I agree with you, but I doubt we\u2019ll see Microsoft rethink it\u2019s
    rasterization strategy any time soon, and I don\u2019t want to start another argument
    about it. But if MS is going to dump TrueType hinting on tyoe designers, it could
    at least do a better job explaining things to a gang of Mac enthusiasts."
  created: '2009-07-24 20:15:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Microsoft needs to rethink how it helps type designers with designing
    fonts that will render well on Windows.</em>\r\n\r\nRight on James.\r\nBut don't
    blame type designers for not being up to speed on the technology.\r\nIt's Microsoft's
    business model that's to blame, which leads to complex technology that optimizes
    the performance of its own font solutions, to the detriment of the majority of
    font producers who don't have its margins of scale.\r\nApple, on the other hand,
    makes everyone look good.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-24 20:19:23'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: It looks crappy in any browser i'm running on WinXP. I get descender clipping,
    fuzzy type, &c. Different issues in Safari and Firefox. So are designers going
    to start creating websites for Mac users only?
  created: '2009-07-24 21:16:35'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>So are designers going to start creating websites for Mac users only?</cite>\r\n\r\nNo,
    but I expect that web designers will very quickly find that some of the fonts
    they want to use for text are only going to be worthwhile if they want to pay
    for custom work. Which might happen now that there will be some working cross-platform
    web font solutions. Even with custom font work big web campaigns will still be
    less expensive than running print campaigns. "
  created: '2009-07-24 21:33:16'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: I can see the bello and PN in safari - not in firefox. default font in firefox
    - am using the latest version. any idea why?
  created: '2009-07-24 23:23:41'
- author:
    name: Tim Brown
    picture: 110622
  body: "<cite>I can see the bello and PN in safari - not in firefox. default font
    in firefox - am using the latest version. any idea why?</cite>\r\n\r\nJoshua,
    I've seen that as well on some machines running the latest FF 3.5 (not a beta).
    No idea!\r\n\r\n<cite>It looks crappy in any browser i\u2019m running on WinXP.
    I get descender clipping, fuzzy type, &c. Different issues in Safari and Firefox.
    So are designers going to start creating websites for Mac users only?</cite>\r\n\r\nPaul,
    the descender clipping is an issue the Typekit folks have told me they're looking
    into. Might be correctable. However, your question about whether web designers
    will design primarily for Safari users (or Mac users) and let other folks \"see
    what they see\" ... that is an excellent question. More people need to be concerned
    about this.\r\n\r\nThe CSS disparities between Safari and other browsers are so
    monumental, and it is so tempting to think only of Safari, that unless other browsers
    start catching up fast ... well ... Joe Clark is going to have to write another
    book about the value of accessible design. And why not to design solely for one's
    most ideal visitors."
  created: '2009-07-25 02:47:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Using Fontlab to hint TrueType fonts for use on Windows for Dummies</em>\r\n\r\n1.
    Set up PS style blue zones to control vertical alignment and overshoots; be sure
    to provide blue zones for anything that you want to align.\r\n\r\n2. Apply FL
    auto PS stem hints, Adobe FDK auto PS stem hints, or FL manual PS stem hints to
    glyphs.\r\n\r\n3. Set PS standard stem values to average stem values; typically,
    you want just a couple of values for x and y stems capturing the main vertical
    stems for I/i and the top or bottom section of the O/o.\r\n\r\n4. Make sure that
    TT generation exports are set to autohint unhinted glyphs; this autohint function
    will make use of the blue zones, stem hints and stem values that you have set
    up in the font.\r\n\r\n5. Generate font and install.\r\n\r\nClearType handles
    this kind of hinting pretty well for most Latin font styles. Greyscale antialiasing
    in Windows will not look as good, although the alignments should be fine. Black
    and white rendering will not be good, but still the alignments will be fine."
  created: '2009-07-25 03:53:03'
- author:
    name: Tim Brown
    picture: 110622
  body: "Amazing. All that, just to have a vector outline look <em>less horrible</em>
    when forced onto a grid of pixels.\r\n\r\nThis doesn't have to be done at each
    possible font size, does it? Instead, the \"hints\" are like educated guesses
    helping rasterize a font in a relative way, right? If so, that's probably why
    web designers notice that a font that looks great at 13px looks oddly fuzzy and
    uncoordinated at 15px. Its hints might not be lining it up as well at 15px because
    the combination of hinting instructions and available pixels might not be as suitable
    (as the same hints at 13px). "
  created: '2009-07-25 04:14:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Amazing. All that, just to have a vector outline look less horrible when
    forced onto a grid of pixels.</em>\r\n\r\nActually, alignment zones and standard
    stem widths are a pretty good infrastructure for designing and building a typeface.\r\nWhen
    teaching type design to students in a graphic design course, I've found that explaining
    the principle of alignment zones prioritizes the importance of x-height and extender
    length, as well as the function of overshoots.\r\nThis does tend to homogenize
    letterforms, however.\r\n\r\nAlso, I wonder if desktop publishing and the ensuing
    emergence of the Internet would have played out quite as broadly, had it not been
    for adequate screen representation of type through global hinting. And that began
    with TrueType, with ATM being developed and released in a rush by Adobe, which
    saved Apple. So you could say that alignment zones and stem hints are fundamental
    to the digital graphic culture we now have.\r\n\r\nNonetheless, a lot of the new
    typography of the digital era, that got the indie font scene started with grunge
    and deconstructed type designs, studiously avoided this kind of thing, despite
    the fact that Fontographer had the necessary hinting tools. "
  created: '2009-07-25 05:15:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick, Fontographer did not have the necessary hinting tools for TrueType.
    It performed a pretty crude PS to TT conversion, and the results were never very
    good. Also, bear in mind that the kind of semi-automatic approach I described
    above -- which is very short of what one can achieve with manual TT hinting in
    FontLab, and very, very short of what one can do in VTT -- depends on the latest
    anti-aliasing models. With b/w and greyscale rasterisation, the results are not
    nearly so good.\r\n\r\nFontLab's auto hinting for TT is pretty smart, and the
    nice thing is that it makes use of whatever level of information you put into
    a font, as I explained above. You can go further, and convert the PS stem hints
    to TT instructions and manually edit them, and you can do this for individual
    glyphs, letting the autohinting look after the others.\r\n\r\nHowever, there are
    things you need to look out for. If your font contains zero-width glyphs with
    outlines, such as combining marks, FontLab will round these off the origin point
    at some sizes, causing the width to explode. In that case, you need to convert
    the PS hints to instructions and manually remove the links to the origin point."
  created: '2009-07-25 19:20:04'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@tim and all:\r\nIn light of the ins and outs of creating a screen-readable
    cross-platform, cross-browser font (thanks for the mini-lesson, Nick, John, etc...),
    your page looks very good, Tim.\r\n\r\nI know I've commented on this before, to
    no avail, but it would be great if you would take the time to create EOT's for
    these examples. Ascender has just released a tool for creating these \"DRM-Free\"
    EOT Lite files. (Haven't gotten my hands on it yet. But I'll have it shortly.)\r\n\r\nTo
    be pesty about it: your answer to me, on this site, was that you'd prefer to let
    Typekit handle IE. Well, Typekit is now in Beta preview, I will look to see if
    these fonts are available. But what if they aren't?\r\nYour examples would be
    more <strong>effective</strong> if they were more inclusive. If your intention
    is to advocate, and that seems to be your intention, I don't think there's a single
    site among the Alexa top 1 million that would even dream of excluding IE in this
    manner.\r\nJust me 2 cents... \r\n\r\nCheers, \r\n\r\nRich"
  created: '2009-07-26 15:26:12'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "To just build on what Nick wrote... Yes, the age-old PostScript font hinting
    model is really one of the miracles of the desktop publishing age. John Warnock
    had to think up a way to get letters to look good at low resolution, because Adobe
    would have crashed and burned without it. So he came up with the appropriately-named
    font \"hints\". They just provide general information about font and glyph features
    which can be interpreted by any rasterizer. It's a very practical approach --
    even today, when we're coming back around to \"medium resolution\" environments
    (high-res LCD screens and such) which became largely irrelevant in printers years
    ago, but were the primary concern in 1984.\r\n\r\nOne can look at all this and
    say, \"So much technological complexity for something as simple as type!\" or
    one can acknowledge that building digital fonts has always been a task for knowledgeable
    and skilled professionals -- for whom good ol' Type 1 hints are fairly straightforward,
    and an easy way to ensure a digital font is something better than a plain rasterized
    PostScript path.\r\n\r\nI did some extensive TrueType hinting back in the day,
    and it was brain-numbing but very cool in its way. I don't mean to disparage that
    approach -- but I think everyone knows it's a lot of work, and difficult to apply
    to every font that comes down the pike.\r\n\r\nBy the way, I am on OS X/Safari,
    and Proxima Nova looks very nice!"
  created: '2009-07-27 01:32:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "This is how the Proxima Nova on this page looks to me:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pronov_5544.gif]\r\n\r\nI
    consider this unacceptably fuzzy and of uneven stroke density for text readability,
    quite apart from the clipped descenders."
  created: '2009-07-27 04:13:13'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: Yeah, that doesn't look so great there.
  created: '2009-07-27 06:50:38'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I\u2019ve seen that as well on some machines running the latest FF 3.5 (not
    a beta). No idea!\r\n\r\nSearch previous threads on \u2019vertical metrics\u2019
    or \u201Cchopped off\u201D.\r\n\r\n> you could say that alignment zones and stem
    hints are fundamental to the digital graphic culture we now have...\r\nNick...
    I and other designers want to add the intra and inter glyph white-space to that
    fundamental list to make possible an end to typographic \u201Cx abuse\u201D (we
    see a lot in this site). But the two main owners of TT/OT think the list is long
    enough at 2 things, alignment zones and \u2019page color\u2019. And though ISO,
    the web\u2019s users, and I \u2019want it\u2019 otherwise, \u201Ctype scaling\u201D
    is set up that way by MS and Apple. Though all of the technology to handle readable
    web type exists, basically \u201Cit\u2019s resolution\u2019s fault\u201D that
    you can barely ever have optimal quality for your needs.\r\n\r\nThen, One could
    say that this web site\u2019s apparent use of @font-face suffers from low resolution
    typographic x abuse the site developer has absolutely no control over with these
    or most outline fonts, now or ever.* And the site suffers @font-face abuse from
    the user\u2019s perspective. I.E. the definition of the top 3/4 of the page as
    2 assets, for the foreseeable future, does the user absolutely no good in transmission
    speed, and may in fact end up with that lovely script text appearing as Verdana,
    likely doing the publisher of the website nearly no good. Render unto pixels,
    that which is their due.\r\n\r\nThat covers text and display type on this type.
    But the sub heads, they are very nice and I like the color scheme.\r\n\r\n@Hudson>
    This is, as Si Daniels put it, the \u2019elephant in the room\u2019 that no one
    is talking about.\r\n\r\nThanks John for repeating a not entirely completely untrue
    statement. Since 2004 when the final hinting/fontformat/OS environment was being
    described for its eventual 2007 release from Longhorn into Vista, I and quite
    a few others have never called this issue an elephant in the room. ;)\r\n\r\nOtherwise,
    \u201Cweb text readability\u201D has been a rather huge topic here and elsewhere.
    Search on that instead of \u2019elephant\u2019 if anyone is interested. The fact
    that learned type people are supposing an emergency availability situation, and
    are supporting a new font format to utterly exacerbate the beast raw into a naked
    and raging elephant, is what surprises me.\r\n\r\n>The so-called \u2019web safe\u2019
    fonts like Verdana,\r\n\r\n...are, as John correctly points out, safe by availability
    and by contour design, and at 13ppx Verdana is particularly safe because it was
    drawn to fit that size, (delete the hints and it works about the same at 13, when
    anti-aliased). But mostly, web safe fonts are safe simply from their original
    selection as part of a class of published digital outlines to accompany everything;
    as Courier, Times and Helvetica (et al), are familiar enough for users to \u201Cfill
    in the blur\u201D of the bad sizes, they just barely work. While Verdana et al
    are by contour design, made to minimize the blur by maximizing critical font-wide
    type design features, also in familiar forms people are used to.\r\n\r\n>...I\u2019m
    cooking something up to help web typographers with that....\r\n\r\nI call help,
    \u2019recommendations\u2019. When taken from groups of fonts, a data-base of recommendations
    will provide a web typographer with a \u2019ball park\u2019 to start testing,
    or just go with the recommndation, for any particular use. I\u2019d love to see
    what you cook up but people think adding this meta data to the OT font specification
    is the quickest and only way to begin addressing web text readability education
    on the scale required.\r\n\r\n>...Microsoft needs to rethink how it helps type
    designers with designing fonts\r\n\r\nSee what happened on this forum when I quested
    for a clear cleartype specification in \u201905? Search on \u201Cgiant pile of
    excrement\u201D, as far as I recall.\r\n\r\n>I realize that there are some strong
    arguments in favor of manually-hinted TrueType fonts with deltas for different
    sizes...\r\n\r\nYou must mean Variations for different sizes. :) Deltas, they
    may be, that term has been demonized to an evil size-specific blot. Search on
    \u201CSuperpolator\u201D\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n*Unless e.g. you set your OT/@FF-friendly
    browser\u2019s text size to medium, then go to:\r\nhttp://www.fontbureau.com/test/franky/\r\n...there
    you can futz with the site\u2019s typographic size and weight controls outside
    of the evil grip of everyone but me and some of my crazy ideas for \u201Celephant
    training.\u201D\r\n\r\nRemember, set your OT/@FF-friendly browser\u2019s text
    size to medium, set your OT/@FF-friendly browser\u2019s text size to medium. Don\u2019t
    forget, set your OT/@FF-friendly browser\u2019s text size to medium.\r\n\r\nAlso:
    You can steal these fonts now if it suits you. Or you can wait, and steal better
    ones later. Or you can wait until the new font wrapper everyone is so hot for,
    is thoroughly undressed by time as it surely must be to be accepted, and then
    you can steal these fonts from that format. See!? Lots of choices! Sorry for the
    L.P.\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-27 10:57:21'
- author:
    name: gferreira
    picture: 110517
  body: "Franky is impressive.\r\n\r\nDoes it have a serif companion?"
  created: '2009-07-28 07:29:02'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Thanks, gferreira and Yes, there is a serif, but it is not to be so small.
    I'll tell everybody when and where one can start licensing the serif font in the
    raw naked undressed OT format soon. ;) Our plan is to give away all sans fonts,
    because they are so simple, but (I'm) to charge a vast fortune for licenses to
    (just) serif faces (kidding;) \r\n\r\nThis demo is 'even better than bitmaps'
    down to the bottom sizes, perhaps? and this is what elephant-aware type designers
    assumed (1994-98), then hoped (1999-2007), but now can only wish user's type looked
    like down to small sizes. Momma Apple and Daddy MS didn't get along on the TT/scaler/rasterizing-thingy,
    with each other, or with type's more industrious developers, and uncle Adobe didn't
    care then \u2014 so now, they get most of you design types, ISO, W3C and the biggest
    text-composing user-community, quality-puzzled. I get the rich who need solutions
    ahead of most other users, which might sound vile to you, but it makes this time
    possible. Speaking of which...\r\n\r\nFranky and the type it produces, was a 2007,
    31-day, 45-style, font lab beating on a demo agate for screens to counter the
    contention that there is no alternative to the 'well-studied' OS-default scaling
    techniques when deployed via default web font-sizing and then applied to small
    font sizes on computer screens. If type developers (e.g. me), can't control completely
    enough, the size-specific x dimension variation via hinting because of MS' scaler,
    e.g., and can't give users size-specific x dimension variation via any other means
    besides changing the contour, font name and forcing its use at only one ppm size,
    then that's what I had/have to do. It allows me, as I explained to Greg Hitchcock
    at Sota Seattle, to avoid all the format, scaler, rendering and web composition
    barriers to type quality \u2014 all I need is a baseline, a pixel-per-em, (a tiny
    user interface, @font-face and repeated warnings to set your browser to the medium
    fonts size, which I didn't have then, but I have now), and I can undress CT and
    Quartz quality for this purpose.\r\n\r\nOne sub-thing I also had to deal with,
    as your exploration of Franky benefits from, was people saying 'it's too light'
    or 'it's too heavy'. This has nothing to do with the detailed problem at hand,
    while having everything to do with the general problem at hand. Thus one can play
    with the text weight in this demo, but with a severe limit on the expansion of
    the text as the goal. Smaller sizes could get heavier, but as each pixel becomes
    proportionally larger at small sizes they would get really wide, so the smaller
    sizes don't get really wide in this demo, and some sizes get too tight.\r\n\r\nIf
    a lot of people agree on this realm of quality for small sizes (8-12 ppm), then
    we can move on to the middle sizes (13-26), where less of the same thing is required
    but variation for size is still required. And if everybody agrees then that text
    and agate is better this way, then much less of this kind of work and much more
    kerning, is required for display types. So, don't get me wrong, it's not all the
    scaling OS' fault, that browsers are just not OT-table-aware enough yet is clearly
    an up-n-coming issue. \r\n\r\nI'm reminded always to remind you, with the PERM
    table, (unless it's called EPAR), part of this elephantine issue can be addressed.
    Without EPAR, there is little chance, in my humble opinion, of anything but a
    typographic idiocracy followed by more generalized idiocracy, far more idiotic
    than we now have. I don't think a few billion computers not knowing what year
    it was, was a problem compared to this. Back then, we all knew what year it was,
    and if not we could pick up a newspaper and (delighting subliminally in the quality
    of the text), read all about it. :-)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-07-28 14:29:38'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: "No sure I get this. The only browser I can get Franky to show up in, is Safari,
    and when the antialiasing is set to Windows Standard, I cant get anything to look
    good. If I set Safari to use Mac rendering, it is just like any other font rendered
    without hints.\r\n\r\nDavid, can you post a screenshot of what Franky is supposed
    to look like? Like your best shot?"
  created: '2009-07-28 14:47:11'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I answered Mike's excellent point directly. But don't forget, I'm not trying
    to solve the quality issue this way, it's way too hard on type and web designers,
    not to mention getting end users away from W3C's horrible font sizing solution.
    I'm just trying to display the quality issue in the only way I know that 'everyone'
    can see it on their own screens in the comfort of their own OS, rendering, size
    and weight preferences. This is just a test, but thank you @fontface.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-07-29 12:15:53'
- author:
    name: gferreira
    picture: 110517
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.hipertipo.org/stuff/webfonts/ModularSerif.html\">Here</a>
    is another example of a ppem-specific screen typeface design. (It works in Firefox
    and Safari on MacOSX)\r\n\r\nDavid, following your PERM proposal, how would you
    set the \"Scaling\" recommendations for a design built on a 13ppem grid, but delivered
    as a CFF font with 1000 upm, to be used at 8px size and its multiples? :-/\r\n\r\nI
    feel the need for a field to say how many emUnits correspond to one pixel, but
    maybe I'm just doing something wrong.\r\n\r\nDoes the emUnits/pixel ratio change
    across the different sizes of Franky, or is it constant?\r\n\r\nThanks!\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-29 13:49:20'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: I love the proxima and bello combination!
  created: '2009-07-29 19:47:11'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Here is another example of a ppem-specific screen typeface design. (It
    works in Firefox and Safari on MacOSX)</em>\r\n\r\nAnd doesn't work -- at least
    not in any way that is readable -- in Firefox on Windows Vitsa:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/modserb_5701.gif]"
  created: '2009-07-29 20:38:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>I\u2019m just trying to display the quality issue in the only
    way I know that \u2019everyone\u2019 can see it on their own screens in the comfort
    of their own OS, rendering, size and weight preferences.</em>\r\n\r\nIs there
    some way in which I can see the Franky test in Firefox on Windows? I went to look,
    but get my default browser font instead:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/confrank_3984.gif]"
  created: '2009-07-29 20:42:25'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: Also on Windows here and I get the same result as John in Firefox, but (seemingly)
    the correct 'Franky' font with Safari.
  created: '2009-07-29 20:48:09'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Ironically, in light of <a href=\"http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-font/2009JulSep/0821.html\">this</a>...\r\n\r\nIn
    downloaded and installed Safari for Windows, then took myself off to the Franky
    test page. I had about three seconds in which to look at the nice typeface, and
    then my entire system crashed. Blue screen of death crashed.\r\n\r\nMaybe I'm
    hysterical because of the heat, but I found this very, very funny.\r\n\r\nI'm
    going to try it again now. Wish me luck."
  created: '2009-07-30 02:17:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Phew. No crash this time. I'm willing to blame something other than Franky
    for the previous experience.\r\n\r\nThis is what I see:\r\n\r\n1. Franky left,
    Verdana right, with Windows 'Standard' i.e. non-CT smoothing:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/franky1_6465.gif]\r\n\r\n.\r\n2.
    Franky left, Verdana right, with Windows Cleartype smoothing:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/franky2_3899.gif]\r\n\r\n.\r\n3.
    Franky left, Verdana right, with Safari's own smoothing:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/franky3_4966.gif]"
  created: '2009-07-30 02:32:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'This is weird: if I use the little minus button on the Franky test page to
    reduce the size of the text, the CT display of Franky looks much better, and I
    wonder what is the ''correct'' size, but the linespacing massively increases (but
    not for Verdana). However, if I switch to Safari''s full fuzz rendering at this
    size, the linespacing reverts to the normal tighter spacing; back to CT and it
    increases again. Funky, Franky.'
  created: '2009-07-30 02:41:01'
- author:
    name: gferreira
    picture: 110517
  body: "<cite>And doesn\u2019t work \u2014 at least not in any way that is readable
    \u2014 in Firefox on Windows Vitsa.</cite>\r\nYes, but I think this can be fixed.
    To be continued..."
  created: '2009-07-30 11:00:46'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Maybe I\u2019m hysterical because of the heat, but I found this very, very
    funny.\r\n\r\nI bet not nearly as funny, to me, as sitting at 144 dpi with a yellow
    background waiting for a new aesthetic. ;) Does that help cool ya down? I just
    heard yesterday that the NW is baking, and I hope it passes soon, in the meantime,
    it's funky, raw, and naked time.\r\n\r\n>Does the emUnits/pixel ratio change across
    the different sizes of Franky, or is it constant?\r\n\r\nIt changes, because the
    units per em was kept constant. This is not important unless something does want
    to react to pixels per units, as the Perm table, and my proposed Size table are
    designed to slightly enable.\r\n\r\n>David, following your PERM proposal, how
    would you set the \u201CScaling\u201D recommendations for a design built on a
    13ppem grid, but delivered as a CFF font with 1000 upm, to be used at 8px size
    and its multiples? :-/\r\n\r\nThe first half if easy, but why exactly would one
    want to deliver for the wrong size? I.E. if it's for 13 ppm, it should not be
    used at 8, 16 or 24?\r\n\r\nTomorrow, I'll try to republish the expanding list
    of requirements to make Franky Quality happen, hopefully without Franky Quantity
    ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-07-30 11:45:04'
- author:
    name: gferreira
    picture: 110517
  body: <a href="http://www.hipertipo.org/stuff/webfonts/ModularSerif.html">Updated.</a>
  created: '2009-07-30 19:34:33'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I can\u2019t see modular serif b actually getting used as a text face. It\u2019s
    heavy and chunky which makes letters glob together at text sizes. The tight, uneven
    spacing makes matters worse. What\u2019s really annoying is the way that <strong>s</strong>
    always appears to be dry-humping the next letter, this really mucks up the rhythm
    of the text. "
  created: '2009-07-30 19:44:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Your test now appears to render correctly, Gustavo. Can we see a specimen
    with black text on white? And some actual text?
  created: '2009-07-30 22:32:04'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "This looks nice Gustavo, but it is unreadable for me at least, beginning
    in the design; much of the 'shape contrast' (e.g. between the truly round 'o'
    and the mostly square 'n'), has been eliminated, (for the sake of simpler rendering?).
    It's nice for display though, as it is...\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-07-31 12:30:46'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Rendering of Proxima Nova and the other fonts look good for me (running Windows
    Vista + Firefox 3.6). And my captures look different than John's ones. Probably
    this is due to some update Firefox got in between, as the other posts have some
    months now:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Prox01_6634.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Prox02_5974.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Modular_4595.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Franky_5627.png]\r\n\r\n.\r\nIf
    the improvement in rendering is due to a Firefox update, this is a good new. Anyway,
    there are fonts in TypeKit site which render poorly in my screen:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/TypeKit_5490.png]"
  created: '2010-02-13 19:56:50'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: It's because Typekit has made improvements since this discussion first started.
    I don't think the browsers are doing anything different.
  created: '2010-02-13 20:43:34'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Mark, what style is to be the \"Bold\" of Proxima Nova's Regular?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-02-15 14:35:31'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Proxima Nova Bold.
  created: '2010-02-15 14:50:53'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "It looks like it's the same width as Regular, as though it was a \"grade\"
    or 'duplexed'...\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-02-15 20:09:13'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: It's not. Do you have a link or something so I can see what you're looking
    at?
  created: '2010-02-15 20:24:32'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Oup! nevermind, I was looking at http://www.ms-studio.com/FontSales/proximanovacond.html,
    and seeing the composition was not changing width from weight to weight, but I
    didn't notice the composition was changing instead. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-02-16 20:45:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: ".\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-05 02:47:05'
date: '2009-07-24 18:23:55'
node_type: forum
title: Nice Web Type likes Bello Pro and Proxima Nova

---
