---
author:
  name: Joe Pemberton
  picture: 110420
body: Who are the moderators and people behind Typophile? <a href="http://typophile.com/moderators">Say
  hello</a>.
comments:
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Tracking.
  created: '2009-07-29 01:33:19'
- author:
    name: zevbiz
    picture: 115672
  body: Can someone tell me what the little icons on the top-left of some of the avatars
    represent? (Probably a dumb question I realize)
  created: '2009-07-29 04:18:24'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: http://typophile.com/membership
  created: '2009-07-29 04:55:47'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "What is \u201CTypophile Books?\u201D"
  created: '2009-07-29 05:30:31'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Typophile books is a great list of books in Typography and Type Design, with
    some reviews, but it''s going into hiding for two or three years. Like the tracker:
    www.typophile.com/tracker, you can get to it by www.typophile.com/books, but there''s
    no link to it. Why is that, moderators?'
  created: '2009-07-29 05:41:38'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "This information, hitherto almost concealed, is still unavailable from the
    mostly-Flash, unindexable monstrosity that is the homepage or from any obvious
    other place. It was completely unknown to me (and, admit it, to you) until today.\r\n\r\nAnd
    it\u2019s posted here to pre\xEBmpt a discussion of doing what the most successful
    online forum, MetaFilter, does: Run a separate forum just for discussions about
    the forum.\r\n\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-07-29 06:03:44'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "_Joe: I will admit that your e-mail did prompt us to try and make these people
    a little more visible to everyone, I don't think there is anything wrong with
    that. Maybe we should say \"thank you\" for getting us to do something about it,
    even with this small step.\r\n\r\nTypophile has never kept the identities of administrators
    or moderators concealed. Sure, perhaps we didn't surface our biographies to the
    \"monstrosity\" that is our home page, but this site is about the people who make
    up the larger community, not about us.\r\n\r\nI'm actually very interested in
    the discussion that you propose, but I must remind you that we are not MetaFilter
    and do not try to be. There are a number of ways we can enhance the site - we
    know this - and we'd like to find ways to make it a better experience for everyone
    (finding the time is our biggest obstacle). As a matter of fact, for months now
    we have been re-designing and building what will eventually become Typophile 2.0,
    or 3.0 - or whatever version we are on :)\r\n\r\n\r\n_William: Unfortunately Books
    has not gotten the attention it deserves in recent years, but it is still linked
    under \"Resources.\"\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-29 18:55:02'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "Joe, this page entitled <a href=\"http://typophile.com/readme\">PLEASE READ</a>
    (which has been fixed to the top of the 'General Discussion' page) has housed
    information about moderators and  how to contact them for several years now. This
    is hardly what I would call 'almost concealed'.\r\n\r\nEdit: oops, It seems to
    me you were, in fact, referring to the 'Books' section being buried, if this was
    the case I do apologize."
  created: '2009-07-29 19:03:31'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">still linked under \u201CResources.\u201D\r\n\r\nThanks, Zara, I stand corrected.
    Would it be possible to have a more prominent place? Then I think it might be
    more active, with new posts and reviews. "
  created: '2009-07-29 19:21:37'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: I think for the time being we might be able to find somewhere to surface books,
    but I believe this has been addressed in the new/future site architecture.
  created: '2009-07-29 19:33:08'
- author:
    name: tmac
    picture: 117522
  body: "This site is great. But I do hope that something is fixed with the tracking
    so that Christopher Dean doesn't have to write the word Tracking in every single
    thread. I mean, imagine if that caught on and everyone wrote the word Tracking.\r\n\r\nIf
    I do a search with the word Tracking, I find every single thread in which he has
    listed the word Tracking. What if I was looking for information on Tracking, as
    in letterspacing? I would be forced to sift thru all of his Tracking posts.\r\n\r\nI
    therefore propose that Christopher use a different word, unrelated to typography
    itself, such as \"disruptive,\" or \"selfish.\"\r\n\r\nThanks."
  created: '2009-07-29 22:53:54'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "<cite>I therefore propose that Christopher use a different word, unrelated
    to typography itself, such as \u201Cdisruptive,\u201D or \u201Cselfish.\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\nLOL.\r\nAnd
    a lot of concurrance (if that is a word).\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-07-29 22:57:48'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "tmac: Great feedback, and we'll address this issue specifically, but let's
    try not to turn this thread into a feature wish-list or bug report. Feel free
    to e-mail us directly, or start another thread :)\r\n\r\ntypophile [at] punchcut
    [dot] com"
  created: '2009-07-29 23:02:41'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: Now I finally understand why Dan is carrying that C around ;)
  created: '2009-07-29 23:04:10'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "How about a big round of applause for the Typophile moderators and the Punchcut
    crew who keep this forum up and running, everybody?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/applause1234363884_5474.gif]\r\n\r\n:-)"
  created: '2009-07-30 05:13:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Yay crew! Nice one, Ricardo. '
  created: '2009-07-30 05:16:31'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Thanks, William. I did a Google image search for "applause" and... :-)
  created: '2009-07-30 05:23:07'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > How about a big round of applause for the Typophile moderators and
    the Punchcut crew who keep this forum up and running, everybody?</cite>\r\n\r\nHear,
    hear!"
  created: '2009-07-30 14:33:33'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Absolutely, thanks to all the moderators and Punchcut people. This site is
    great :)
  created: '2009-07-30 16:53:23'
- author:
    name: Kirs10
  body: 'Your time and expertise are well appreciated. '
  created: '2009-07-30 18:49:22'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: '*clapping*'
  created: '2009-07-30 19:36:49'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Ricardo, that is fantastic!\r\n\r\nAnd the rest of you can just rattle your
    jewelry."
  created: '2009-07-30 19:51:22'
- author:
    name: barkeep
    picture: 111198
  body: "<cite>\"This site is great. But I do hope that something is fixed with the
    tracking so that Christopher Dean doesn\u2019t have to write the word Tracking
    in every single thread. I mean, imagine if that caught on and everyone wrote the
    word Tracking\",</cite>\r\n\r\nI think Christopher should use a different word
    or phrase, possibly one of the following; \r\n\r\n\"custard mmmmmmm\"\r\n\r\n\"The
    girl is wetter than a haddock's bathing costume\"\r\n\r\n\"We could go back to
    Dallas in November 1963, stand on the grassy knoll, and shout 'Duck!'\"\r\n\r\n\"So
    this is really me? A no-style gimbo with teeth druids could use as a place of
    worship?\"\r\n\r\n\" Last night, Darth Vader came down from planet Vulcan and
    told me that if I didn't take Lorraine out that he'd melt my brain.\"\r\n\r\nMartin"
  created: '2009-07-30 20:55:11'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>And the rest of you can just rattle your jewelry.</em>\r\n\r\nHeh-heh.
    Good ole <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Lennon\">Dr. Winston O'Boogie</a>!"
  created: '2009-07-30 23:56:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "While Ricardo takes first prize for applause and Patty rattles her jewelry,
    all I can do is fling my bling :-)\r\n\r\nGreat job to moderators one and all!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-07-31 00:56:36'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "This will be redundant for many but I'll post this set of links all the same
    for anybody might not know\r\n\r\nBTW - Regarding the books section*,  have a
    look here:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/books\r\n\r\nThere are other things
    to be found here:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/resources\r\nhttp://typophile.com/projects\r\n\r\nNote
    also that having this URL as a book mark can be handy\r\nhttp://typophile.com/tracker\r\n\r\nYou
    may want to bookmark a tracker of your own threads as well\r\n\r\nAnd don't forget
    the Wiki\r\nhttp://typophile.com/typowiki\r\n\r\nAnd for fun\r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/groups/typophile/\r\n\r\n*
    this is seriously out of date at this point but far far better than nothing!\r\n\r\n\r\n
    \ "
  created: '2009-07-31 01:03:32'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Using Safari, I have the Tracker as the first bookmark in my bookmarks bar
    so I can literally hit command-1 and I''m viewing the latest on Typophile. :) '
  created: '2009-07-31 01:13:06'
- author:
    name: Ed_Aranda
    picture: 117416
  body: I just discovered the tracking feature a few days ago. Before that, I found
    it odd that Christopher Dean seemed to state his presence in every thread.
  created: '2009-07-31 04:30:39'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: I "bookmark" threads of interest that way. Preferably with something meaningful
    to contribute. If I can't, rather than make noise, and/or want to be a silent
    observer, I just post "tracking." When I log in the next day, I go to my account,
    then click tracking, and it gives me a list showing me the threads I'm following
    and if there have been any new comments. I find it very helpful for my memory.
  created: '2009-07-31 07:03:30'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "@Dean: the objections are to the use of the word \"tracking\", which is typographically
    meaningful, and therefore potentially resulting in false matches. Let's use something
    else, only meaningful to you, eh?\r\n@Schmoeger"
  created: '2009-07-31 09:07:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Perhaps:\r\n\r\nH\r\nH\r\nH\r\n\r\n:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-07-31 15:25:17'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Christopher, I had not seen what there was to object to myself but this comment
    about the word tracking being a typographically important for search seems like
    a good argument. My suggestion is to post a period on its own. That will do the
    job without diluting the semantic value of the value of the word "tracking" in
    searches of Typophile.
  created: '2009-07-31 15:53:35'
- author:
    name: begsini
    picture: 110929
  body: "I find any meaningless, contentless post to be annoying, regardless\r\nof
    whether it contains a typographically important word. "
  created: '2009-07-31 16:09:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Christopher, if you use the typophile.com/tracker  url, you will get all
    the active threads, and probably feel less need to mark those you are particularly
    interested in. \r\n\r\nModerators, can a link to the tracker be restored, and
    to a prominent place, labeled clearly eg. \"recent posts\"? That will make life
    easier for the newer users. The tracker, bookmarked, is what many veteran typophilers
    like myself use regularly as the entry to this great site. "
  created: '2009-07-31 17:07:21'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Yup, I've been using the tracker page since someone mentioned it a few months
    ago, a most useful page :)\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-31 17:56:22'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "While I can understand the ease of using Typophile\u2019s tracking functionality
    (and I second the request to be able to track a thread without having posted oneself),
    there are alternatives:\r\nBookmark the thread in question. Most browsers let
    you organise your bookmarks in folders, thus you could set up your Typophile folder.\r\nEvery
    thread has an RSS feed, see the little \u2018rss\u2019 link at the end of the
    original post. If you use a Feedreader, you can subscribe to the thread and keep
    track of new posts. In some browsers, you can store the RSS feed as a dynamic
    or \u2018live\u2019 bookmark.\r\nF"
  created: '2009-07-31 20:32:22'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "if you want to track a thread, just make a post.\r\n\r\na real post.\r\n\r\nit's
    not really all that hard to say something creative.\r\nor entertaining.  or interesting.
    \ or just plain on-topic.\r\n\r\nthen include, as a p.s., your magic word.\r\n\r\n(which
    should _not_ be \"tracking\", or \"kerning\", or \r\nanything else people might
    reasonably search for.)\r\n\r\nstep out from the shadows, you lurkers.  take part.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-31 22:48:40'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'I agree that using "track" or "tracking" on Typophile isn''t a good idea,
    but what is the big deal beyond that? You''re tripping over minutiae. '
  created: '2009-08-01 00:13:50'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: if people could at least give us some interesting ASCII art when they want
    to follow a thread, that would maybe not be less obtrusive, but at least more
    enjoyable :^D
  created: '2009-08-01 01:04:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "In an attempt to swing this thread back to the moderators who run it, Here
    is a picture of Eben tracking in a former life (how am I doing, Paul? It even
    has Arizona in it)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/EbenRRtrack_4302.jpg]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-08-01 01:20:52'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: The thirteen <a href="http://www.wsh.dmhmrsas.virginia.gov/historic.htm">original
    moderators</a> of Typophile.
  created: '2009-08-01 01:35:57'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "miss tiffany said:\r\n>   You\u2019re tripping over minutiae.\r\n\r\nactually,
    none of it bothers me a bit.\r\n\r\ni was merely responding in consideration for
    begsini, who said:\r\n>   I find any meaningless, contentless post to be annoying,
    \r\n>   regardless of whether it contains a typographically important word.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\np.s.
    \ but i send out big love to the moderators!\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-01 07:05:19'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Miss Tiffany has diffused many difficult situations on this board, as well
    as the rest of the moderators.\r\n\r\nIt has calmed down a bit, either that or
    I am not here to witness quite as much.\r\n\r\nCheers Mods!\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2009-08-01 07:24:13'
- author:
    name: ofisia
    picture: 128351
  body: "Tracking.\r\n\r\nYes, until there's an alternate way to track a thread other
    than by marking it while I'm using Google reader, I'll stick to this method. Plain
    old browser bookmarking is only available to people who browse the internet via
    their own personal computer, which is I'm not. Should I replace the word \"tracking\"
    with \"clapping\" instead. :D\r\n\r\nBig thanks to all the kind moderators."
  created: '2009-08-01 20:17:18'
- author:
    name: Ed_Aranda
    picture: 117416
  body: I just downloaded a free RSS reader for my iphone. Very cool to be able to
    track threads on the go.
  created: '2009-08-02 02:19:12'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Unfortunately, this is getting into You People Suck territory real fast.
    The fact remains that this site is not per se \u201Cmoderated\u201D\_and the so-called
    moderators have done nothing to make themselves conspicuous or available. A \u201CPLEASE
    READ\u201D sticky thread about <em>how to post</em> is no substitute for a properly
    managed and open advisory of who runs this site. (It\u2019s \u201Ca Punchcut gig.\u201D\_What?)\r\n\r\nLet
    me just ask one question here: More than half a decade in, why is it only now
    we are \u201Cmeet[ing]\u201D our \u201Cmoderators\u201D?\r\n\r\nTypophile is not
    MetaFilter, but MetaFilter works better than Typophile and you should steal their
    ideas. I already have a list of suggestions from MetaFilter\u2019s admins. A later
    thread will be posted.\r\n\r\n \u201CI think Typophile is just great!\u201D\_is
    not an argument against improvement, including the improvement of adding a MetaPhile
    section for discussions <em>of</em> Typophile.\r\n\r\nTypography is a field that
    requires a long apprenticeship just to develop an eye. Well, guess what: The Internet
    has been around a long time (longer than the Web), and many online fora predate
    Typophile by years. Your own limited experience, and your gloss that things are
    just <em>fabulous</em> here, are no substitutes for a rationally managed and continuously
    improving Typophile.\r\n\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-08-03 20:17:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "While there is always room for improvement in any site or forum and I agree
    that Typohile could use some fixin' for sure, it is far easier  to spot flaws
    than it is to fix them. We all have to remember that there is no paid staff or
    moderators here. This is a \"for the love of it\" group of volunteers who work
    here--they also have full-time jobs, full-time families, and the need for a few
    hours sleep on occasion. They are doing well more work than they are thanked by
    us to do. let alone paid by us to do.\r\n\r\nWe all know it isn't the most perfectly
    done site on earth and we would all like to see constant improvement. Since it
    is a\"for the love of it\" free gig, that only happens when more people volunteer
    their private time to do it.  The point is, any of us who has a problem with the
    site can also volunteer not just a verbal solution but pitch in the sweat off
    their brow to make it happen.  Pony up or be willing to live with the bumpy ride.
    Give the moderators the slack that you would want if you were doing it as a freebe.\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-08-03 20:45:52'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "<cite>Unfortunately, this is getting into You People Suck territory real
    fast.</cite>\r\n\r\nJoe, your angry soul needs a little therapy. Perhaps getting
    outside and enjoying life beyond the internet would help. Or, maybe you'd like
    to volunteer your personal time to a community that you have been taking advantage
    of for over 4 years? Griping about it all the time is the easy part.\r\n\r\nI
    have said this more times than I would like to admit, but we are well aware of
    areas on the site that could use improvements. To the development, the architecture,
    and the need for new and improved features. We do what we can - <cite>when we
    have the resources</cite> - but as a design firm that has full time clients, and
    with a small handful of people that have families and real lives outside of their
    careers, making these changes can be very difficult to achieve. But we try and
    we do what we can and we are making progress on the next generation of the site.\r\n\r\nModerators
    have <strong>always</strong> been present and known throughout the community,
    and have always been actively involved - for 9 years now. So making the claim
    that \"\u2026so-called moderators have done nothing to make themselves conspicuous
    or available\" is absolute rubbish.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-03 20:51:46'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Joe Clark is a troll. Just ignore him.
  created: '2009-08-04 05:26:03'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "joe clark, you suck.          ;+)\r\n\r\nseriously, folks, joe clark is not
    \"an angry soul\",\r\nand he's not \"a troll\".  he's a person who cares,\r\na
    lot, sometimes too much, and he speaks up...\r\n\r\nhe's the kind of spice that
    makes life interesting.\r\n\r\nplus, since these are just electrons on the internet,\r\nit's
    easy to ignore him if that's what you wanna do.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-12 21:20:45'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>if people could at least give us some interesting ASCII art</em>\r\n\r\nGood
    idea! Here's an ornament from Arno Pro:\r\n<code>\r\n..................................######.....\r\n...............................###########...\r\n.............................###.......####..\r\n............########........###.........###..\r\n.........################..##...........###..\r\n.......#####################............##...\r\n......###...........############.......##....\r\n.....##.................################.....\r\n....##.................###...#######.........\r\n...##..................##....................\r\n..###.................###....................\r\n..##..................###....................\r\n..##..................##.....................\r\n..##..................##.....................\r\n...#...........###...###.....................\r\n............########.###......####...........\r\n..........##############....########.........\r\n.........###......######..###########........\r\n........###........#####.###.....####........\r\n........#..........#######........####.......\r\n.......##...........#####..........###.......\r\n.......#.............####..........###.......\r\n......##.............###...........##........\r\n......##.............###...........##........\r\n......###............###..........###........\r\n......####...........###..........##.........\r\n.......####..........##..........##..........\r\n.......#######.......##........###...........\r\n........########.....#........###............\r\n..........########..........####.............\r\n............#######.......####...............\r\n...............#####...#####.................\r\n.................#########...................\r\n..................#####......................\r\n..................###........................\r\n.................##..........................\r\n.................#...........................\r\n................##...........................\r\n................##...........................\r\n................###.......##.................\r\n................###########..................\r\n.................#########...................\r\n...................####......................\r\n</code>\r\n\r\nI
    am now tracking this thread!"
  created: '2009-08-12 23:09:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "HAPPY BIRTHDAY, Miguel!!!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-08-13 04:04:54'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "The kind of heavy-handed moderation that Joe Clark seems to favor is not
    where I want to see this forum going.\r\n\r\nI recently left my other prime forum
    site (Adobe Forums) due to the disastrous changes that they made, causing an exodus
    of the best and brightest of the posters, I don't want to see Typophile follow
    that same route to disaster.\r\n\r\nThe level of moderation here is gentle and
    fair. You really can't ask for anything more."
  created: '2009-08-13 13:27:57'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "don said:\r\n>   The kind of heavy-handed moderation \r\n>   that Joe Clark
    seems to favor \r\n>   is not where I want to see this forum going.\r\n\r\ndoes
    joe clark favor heavy-handed moderation?\r\n\r\nhe cites metafile as an example,
    which -- to the\r\nbest of my knowledge -- isn't \"heavy-handed\"...\r\n\r\nbut
    i'll let joe speak for himself...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-13 20:17:43'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: http://blog.fawny.org/2009/07/20/unobservant-printing/
  created: '2009-08-14 00:22:14'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: Good gawd I didn't realize people *actually* pillow-embossed Zapfino - in
    purple.
  created: '2009-08-14 01:15:39'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "the ad hominem by insinuation (with \r\n_no_ actual merit, mind you) continues...\r\n\r\nit'd
    be funny if it weren't so amazing.  \r\nit'd be amazing if it weren't so funny.\r\n\r\noh
    wait, it's both funny _and_ amazing.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\np.s.  but hey, one
    reason i like typophile\r\nis that it is one place where joe clark is\r\n_not_
    the most outrageous one around...\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-14 06:33:34'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: That would be you, right?
  created: '2009-08-14 11:21:37'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "the kids in med school never cease to be amazed\r\nthat -- no matter how
    many times they use their\r\nlittle hammer -- the knee reflex keeps jerking...\r\n\r\nwhich
    means that their amazement is also a reflex.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\np.s.  i
    love the moderators here...\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-14 20:48:18'
date: '2009-07-28 23:19:30'
node_type: forum
title: Meet Typophile's Moderators

---
