---
author:
  name: jdaggett
body: "On the www-font list, John Hudson stated:\r\n\r\n<cite>If someone does want
  to start a Typophile thread on this topic, I'll be happy to explain why the OT 'size'
  feature is a lousy hack that breaks the OT layout model, is unlikely ever to be
  implemented in much software, and why a more robust and sensible approach is needed.</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm
  interested in understanding this statement."
comments:
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Although the OT 'size' feature is implemented in an odd way in terms of where
    the data goes in the font, this does not bother me so much.\r\n\r\nWhat *does*
    bother me is that the 'size' feature deals strictly with point size, and not pixel
    resolution. In a world where the most important use of optical size is on screen,
    this is problematic. If one wants something for use at text sizes on an unspecified
    \"average\" screen of today, a design optimized for perhaps 6-8 points in print
    is likely to be a better choice than one optimized for 10-12 points in print,
    even if the screen size nominally matches 10 or 12 points.\r\n\r\nIdeally one
    would be able to express in the font family some sort of function using a combination
    of ppem size (number of pixels high the font is at the current sizing) and resolution
    of the user's screen to determine which distinct optical-size font to use.\r\n\r\nFor
    so-called pixel fonts, a type designer would want to be able to express things
    purely in terms of ppem size.\r\n\r\nFailing all that, for a web browser to have
    an automatic function like \"take the current ppem x2/3 and look for a font optimized
    for that point size\" would be better than nothing.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-07-29 16:24:20'
- author:
    name: gferreira
    picture: 110517
  body: "related threads <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/60281\">here on Typophile</a>
    and on the <a href=\"http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-font/2009JulSep/0793.html\">www-fonts
    list</a>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-29 16:31:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Everything Thomas said, and then...\r\n\r\nThe OT size feature is nominally
    a GPOS layout feature, despite the fact that is does not perform any glyph positioning
    function. It also does not conform to any of the normal characteristics of a GPOS
    feature. It also requires implementing software to process this feature outside
    of the normal chain of OT Layout processing.\r\n\r\nGiven this, it is hard for
    me to see it as anything but a hack enshrined within the OTL feature descriptions.
    The fact that not even Adobe, who defined the feature and implement it in their
    optical master fonts, have implemented support for it in any of their applications
    suggests that it is not only a hack but even fails the typical justification of
    a hack: that it is useful.\r\n\r\nThe normal processing order for OTL is cmap
    then GSUB then GPOS: first you get the default glyphs for the characters, then
    you substitute other glyphs as appropriate to GSUB features, then you apply positioning
    to those glyphs. The 'size' feature needs to be processed completely outside this
    chain, despite being nominally a GPOS feature. The 'size' feature actually needs
    to be applied prior to any glyph layout processing, since it affects font selection.\r\n\r\nI
    believe this is one of the reasons why the feature isn't supported in applications:
    many implementers struggle to get normal GSUB and GPOS layout right -- given the
    absence of a clear OTL implementation spec, as distinct from the font format spec
    --, and it is no wonder that they have simply ignored this eccentric 'size' feature.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    in order to build 'size' feature data into a font, one needs to use an Adobe FDK-based
    tool for OpenType Layout tables. A tool such as VOLT, used by pretty much everyone
    making fonts for complex scripts, which is based around the normal structures
    of GPOS lookups, has no way to build a 'size' feature. Since it is not currently
    possible to mix-and-match tools for GSUB and GPOS development, this contributes
    to poor support for the 'size' feature on the font side as well as the application
    side.\r\n_____\r\n\r\nA couple of ideas have been put forward for better methods
    of implementing size-specific font selection.\r\n\r\nOne idea is a new SIZE table
    in the font. At its simplest, this could present the same information as the 'size'
    feature but in a more appropriate location and with better implementation guidelines.
    David Berlow drafted a description of a more complex SIZE table during the OT
    1.6 discussions; this sought to address more complication font family relationships
    including ppem-specific designs. I'm not sure how this relates to his new permissions
    and recommendations table idea, or whether some of the concepts in the SIZE table
    proposal have now found their way into the new table.\r\n\r\nA second idea is
    to use the new composite font format (currently under development as an mpeg-OFF
    standard) to enable multiple size-specific fonts to be packaged as a single virtual
    font with the composite font XML wrapper including information to enable applications
    to select the appropriate component font for specific sizes or size ranges. In
    theory, this could be expressed in point size or ppem size, or some combination
    (allowing a single component font to be used for one size in print and wysiwyg
    situations but another for reading on screen).\r\n\r\nThis last idea brings me
    back to the web font format discussion. On the W3C list, I suggested that size-specific
    fonts were orthoganal to the web font format question, which is why I suggested
    that we continue the discussion over here. My thinking is that this is a font
    data matter, and hence something that would be within a potential web font wrapper.\r\n\r\nThe
    only situation in which I think it at all likely to be otherwise would be if indication
    of a ppem-specific font were to be included in the .webfont info.xml meta data.
    But presuming this information is also in the font data in some format, then one
    runs into the problems of duplication, redundancy and potentially differing data
    for the same font.\r\n\r\nFinally, there is the point that Karsten alluded to
    on the W3C list: as real resolutions of screens increase, text at pixel-specific
    sizes gets smaller. In order to be able to serve ppem-specific designs that are
    also of appropriate size for reading, you need to know the resolution of the reader's
    device. Ideally, you also want to know how far away from the screen the reader
    is sitting.\r\n\r\nSomewhere in here, heads start exploding. I'm still trying
    to figure out whether David Berlow is the only person who can hold all this stuff
    in his head, or if his head exploded a long time ago and he just hasn't noticed
    yet. :)"
  created: '2009-07-29 19:24:26'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>Somewhere in here, heads start exploding. I\u2019m still trying to
    figure out whether David Berlow is the only person who can hold all this stuff
    in his head, or if his head exploded a long time ago and he just hasn\u2019t noticed
    yet. :)</cite>\r\n\r\nDavid's head has clearly exploded. :D"
  created: '2009-07-29 19:46:17'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Carrying over something I wrote to the www-font list, with a little addition,
    this adds to Gustavo's comment rather than the original post:\r\n\r\nOn the www-font
    list, Gustavo raised the issue of \"size-specific\" outline screen fonts -- with
    a specially designed font per each ppem-size -- which brought up the question
    how to tell UAs for which ppem-size a font is designed.\r\n\r\nI think that first
    of all one needs to make a fundamental distinction between two types of \"specific-ness\"
    that should not be mixed up:\r\n\r\n1. <em>size-specific design</em>\r\nThe \"one
    outline for all sizes\" approach that outline fonts brought with them results
    in a compromise since one design needs to serve both very small and very large
    sizes.\r\nSize-specific design refers to special versions of a typeface, each
    serving a specific <em>range</em> of type sizes -- which are measured in pt, mm,
    or other. Size-specific-ness belongs to the \"higher-level\" realm of esthetics/legibility
    and is agnostic of the \"lower-level\" realm of this or that rasterization technology,
    output device, resolution (if rasterized at all).\r\n\r\n2. <em>ppem-specific
    design</em>\r\nIn brief, it means designing along the pixel grid. A font per ppem-size.\r\nThis
    approach addresses the \"lower-level\" realm of rasterization technology, output
    device, resolution.\r\n\r\nThomas Phinney: <cite>\"What <em>does</em> bother me
    is that the 'size' feature deals strictly with point size, and not pixel resolution.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nSize-specific
    design and ppem-specific design serve different purposes and hooking in at different
    level: esthetics/legibility vs technology. They do not even overlap.\r\nTherefore
    I think that the information for which ppem-size a font was designed does not
    belong into the current 'size' feature.\r\nThis single ppem-size value per font
    is still more than just an on/off, so cannot be a single bit in 'head' table's
    'flags'.\r\nPerhaps an update OS/2 version with a ppem value appended at the end.\r\nOr
    a 'ppem' table with a single value in it? Presence of the table signals to the
    UA that this is a ppem-specific design, and for which ppem-size. Then activate
    specific behavior. But if, as John suggests, even the current size-specific 'size'
    feature should be a table rather than a feature, then this may indeed inform if
    the font is either size-specific or ppem-specific -- in my current understanding,
    options are none/either/or.\r\nOr of course David Berlow's 'perm' table which
    has a section \"Scaling\" with both point- and pixel(=ppem)-related min/optimum/max
    size entries.\r\n\r\nI am sure I have missed something in my considerations."
  created: '2009-07-29 21:05:15'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@johnhudson\r\n\"<em>as real resolutions of screens increase, text at pixel-specific
    sizes gets smaller. In order to be able to serve ppem-specific designs that are
    also of appropriate size for reading, you need to know the resolution of the reader\u2019s
    device.</em>\"\r\n\r\nI had a brief discussion with <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/user/4431\">kevlar</a>
    about this at TypeCon. It goes beyond \"resolution\" - which is used to refer
    to both the virtual grid imposed by software AND the \"native\" resolution of,
    say, LCD screens which exists physically.\r\nAs a developer, I never understood
    that I could query for the screen resolution and yet be left totally in the dark
    as to the physical dimensions of the display. Without this knowledge, I fail to
    see how optical resolution can be set. I also have reservations about Thomas Phinney's
    \"right for a majority of circumstances\" approach.\r\nI mean, what the hell good
    is/was the Plug'n'Play spec if it doesn't supply this info?\r\nMy understanding
    is that display manufacturers are now beginning to supply such info to the OS
    starting with Win7 and that interest in optical resolution is on the rise.\r\nWe
    shall see.\r\n[Some info for the novice as to the fuzzy mess resulting when these
    two resolutions are in conflict on LCD screens:\r\n1) <a href=\"http://billhillsblog.blogspot.com/2009/05/confusion-over-screen-resolution-causes.html\">Confusion
    Over Screen Resolution</a>\r\n2) <a href=\"http://readableweb.com/screen-resolution-and-me-clarity-begins-at-home/\">Screen
    Resolution And Me</a>]\r\nKevlar tells me the problem I describe fixing in Screen
    Resolution And Me, goes unfixed among appr. 60% of users.\r\nAn incredibly big
    problem being swept under the rug. Supposedly Win7 addresses the issue.\r\n\r\n\"<em>Ideally,
    you also want to know how far away from the screen the reader is sitting.</em>\"\r\nI
    believe there's a product that uses a display mounted cam to determine this distance.
    But the problem of optical size has to be solved before we can refine it in this
    way and add the additional variable of user-distance.\r\nI would like to be able
    to specify 1 inch and have it be 1 inch no matter what display is being used.\r\n\r\nrich\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-30 00:07:19'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "TP>What *does* bother me is that the \u2019size\u2019 feature deals strictly
    with point size, and not pixel resolution. In a world where the most important
    use of optical size is on screen, this is problematic.\r\n\r\nWhat actually could
    bother you, if you were me, is that neither point or pixel is a true measure on
    screen, so that as things stand now, in a craft that was once concerned with the
    effects of one human breath on the type, type designers seeking remedy for readers
    must choose only what's <em>closest to useful</em>, point or pixel. \r\n\r\nAlso,
    I hear what you are saying, but I don't consider the design of fonts for screen
    to be optical sizing. I divide font variation into; for style, for size and for
    device. So, though the style and size heavily influence the decisions (e.g. in
    the Franky designs), if the coarseness and multiplicity of pixel colors doesn't
    overwhelm my per-size decisions, (remembering that I'm only talking about the
    bottom 18-24 sizes or so for Latin, 67 or so for Chinese), the user's preferred
    choices (of style or weight) might overwhelm my per-size decisions. So, if one
    must prepare a web font, then pixels, or the concerns of the device (and how I
    perceive this effect on the user), must lead the way, and the size and style issues
    <em>should</em> follow in a broad fan of choices suiting the size and style preferences,
    satisfying all possible css and end-user choices. That is, if you're making web
    fonts for the bottom end of resolution. (Franky would stylistically represent
    a feather in the fan, but not the way I done drawd and engineared that particular
    feather, I'd hope.) \r\n\r\nJH>I\u2019m not sure how this relates to his new permissions
    and recommendations table idea, or whether some of the concepts in the SIZE table
    proposal have now found their way into the new table.\r\n\r\nThe size table would
    be used to inform the recommendations after permissions define the possible uses.
    Remember that this is not just conceived for the web; permissions can query the
    size, or other tables to inform recommendations for print, sky-writing or film-making.
    It all depends on how cooperative composition agents and devices want to be, versus
    how cooperatively the incoming user market wants these same agents and devices
    to be. On the web, of course, it's harder because of the dynamic natures of the
    media and users, and made nearly impossible by the creeping and various description
    languages that live there. But it's not impossible if one considers all the things
    a type designer can do, and if doing those things impresses people enough, maybe
    they'll listen, and the web will move more considerately, and thus considerably
    on type and typography.  \r\n\r\nThis reminds me, that some large number of people
    have told me that actual everyday web users do not want to do anything, not even
    change the font size, they just want the site to show up all nice so they they
    can read it, wherever, and whatever. If I was your average web designer, which
    means I have absolutely few typographic skills whatsoever, I'd be wondering where
    I am too. ;)\r\n\r\nCS>David\u2019s head has clearly exploded. :D\r\n\r\nYou obviously
    didn't start Chinese web type sensitivity training in 2004, did you? Start thinking
    about Chinese ClearType web fonts for 2 seconds a day, and square those seconds
    each month. Then, after a few years, Latin web fonts, according to any scaler,
    won't make your head explode, clearly or otherwise, which is more likely, surely.
    :E\r\n\r\nJH>A second idea is to use the new composite font format (currently
    under development as an mpeg-OFF standard) to enable multiple size-specific fonts
    to be packaged as a single virtual font\r\n\r\nAnd yet a first idea would be to
    use the existing var tables which are perfectly-suited for just exactly this problem,
    multiple size-specific fonts to be packaged as a single virtual font. Is the public
    asking for GX-like Variations yet or what, John? They never will, it's up to 'us'
    to figure it out and get it served so they never do.\r\n\r\nKL>Size-specific design
    and ppem-specific design serve different purposes and hooking in at different
    level: esthetics/legibility vs technology. They do not even overlap.\r\n\r\nI
    guess I'm going to have to remove overlap surgically then. I hope not to turn
    you all into Spinal Tap drummers by September 1st, but I told you so. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-30 14:19:33'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: I think if systems (Oses) could more reliably convey what ppem they are really
    displaying with, we'd have a much more useful foundation to deal with optical
    size on screen... but I hear you David. One thing you might or might not have
    mentioned is the style of screen rendering. The well-known, opposing camps --
    Windows crispness versus Mac smoothness -- would quite possibly prefer different
    designs for those two styles, all other technical aspects (ppem, etc.) being equal.
  created: '2009-07-30 18:55:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>And yet a first idea would be to use the existing var tables which
    are perfectly-suited for just exactly this problem, multiple size-specific fonts
    to be packaged as a single virtual font. Is the public asking for GX-like Variations
    yet or what, John? They never will, it\u2019s up to \u2019us\u2019 to figure it
    out and get it served so they never do.</em>\r\n\r\nIf size-specific glyph variants
    are all in the same font -- as I understand the case would be using GX-like variations
    --, then size could be handled as GSUB substitutions, which would the addded benefit
    that it would plug easily into existing OTL implementations and not require any
    parsing of any new table. Or is it the axes aspect of GX variations that you are
    thinking about?\r\n\r\nBut such an approach also means completely rebuilding all
    the size-specific fonts that various type designers have been making for the past
    twenty years, rather than just adding some size meta data that identifies at which
    sizes these existing fonts should be used. With the composite font approach, intelligent
    users could create their own virtual fonts of size-specific designs, opt to follow
    foundry recommendations or not, and even make separate composite fonts using the
    same design for different sizes depending on purpose."
  created: '2009-07-30 19:12:15'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "DB -- <cite>[...] I don't consider the design of fonts for screen to be optical
    sizing. I divide font variation into; for style, for size and for device. [...]
    So, if one must prepare a web font, then pixels, or the concerns of the device
    [...], must lead the way, and the size and style issues should follow in a broad
    fan of choices suiting the size and style preferences [...] That is, if you\u2019re
    making web fonts for the bottom end of resolution.</cite>\r\n\r\nDespite \"overlap\"
    was the wrong term ... Do we disagree? Your \"for size\" is my \"size-specific\",
    your \"for device\" is my \"ppem-specific\". With fonts made \"for the bottom
    end of resolution\", the \"for size\" category evaporates -- it's hard to make
    serifs <em>a bit</em> fatter for smaller sizes if a pixel more would constitute
    another style, e.g. a bold. So effectively one ends up, \"for style\", with a
    bunch of fonts, some (or none) of them with \"for size\" flag and others (or none)
    with \"for device\" flag. If there is none for both categories, there is one \"size\"/\"device\"-independent
    \"for style\" font.\r\n\r\nSo based on\r\n<em>a)</em> screen resolution given
    as 144ppem (not as 1024*768 pixel count) and\r\n<em>b)</em> desired type size
    (like 12pt, i.e. resolution-independent)\r\nthe rasterizer could determine which
    font ppem-size is required and then\r\n<em>1)</em> check if the according \"for
    device\" font variation \"for [requested] style\" is present and if yes, use it,\r\n<em>2)</em>
    else check if the according \"for size\" font variant \"for [requested] style\"
    is present and if yes, use it,\r\n<em>3)</em> else use the present \"size\"/\"device\"-agnostic
    \"for style\" variant.\r\n\r\n(This is a summary of how I understand your description.)\r\n\r\nQuestion
    is how to package the \"for size\" and \"for device\" fonts (which I consider
    to be sub-categories of \"for style\") -- I mean: in terms of font naming.\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-31 10:37:09'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "CS>The well-known, opposing camps \u2014 Windows crispness versus Mac smoothness
    \u2014 would quite possibly prefer different designs for those two styles...\r\n\r\nAbsolutely.
    The OS have expressed their 'preferences' for how dark a given shape should render.
    Adobe is the darkest, MS is the lightest and Apple is in between leaning towards
    Adobe. Establishing this in 2007 was job 1, job 1101, was making Franky with \"all
    weights possible.\" This weight choice takes care of whatever preferences clash
    in this area between user and web site developer, user and font vendor, or user
    and OS rendering. Good?\r\n\r\nI don't think users should have their text type
    color decided for them by anyone but themselves, especially when the 'opposing
    camps' are doing it for reasons divorced nearly entirely from user preferences.
    \r\n\r\nKL>Question is how to package the \u201Cfor size\u201D and \u201Cfor device\u201D
    fonts (which I consider to be sub-categories of \u201Cfor style\u201D) \u2014
    I mean: in terms of font naming.\r\n\r\nI worship variations so I don't have to
    name every possible style. I worship the web because it's a place where users
    can make choices based on appearance alone, and because I don't have to 'deliver'
    anything. \r\n\r\nJH>But such an approach also means completely rebuilding all
    the size-specific fonts that various type designers have been making for the past
    twenty years, rather than just adding some size meta data that identifies at which
    sizes these existing fonts should be used...\r\n\r\nWhy is it either or? If a
    font is made for one size, add a little data that indicates it. If a font is made
    for a lot of sizes, add a lot of data to indicate it. But everything beats the
    one-size-fits-all outline that can't do so in reality. We rebuilt all the per-size
    designs into outlines in the 70's and 80's, nobody seemed to mind then. ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-07-31 12:18:00'
- author:
    name: sergeym
  body: " understand arguments towards having ppem-specific fonts. Goal is to choose
    font optimal for readability by automatically choosing font based on calculated
    ppem size. However, there are scenarios where you will have same variation to
    be displayed at different ppem sizes, even ones it is not intended for. \r\n\r\nFor
    example, if you read PDF on various devices you have to display text using font
    chosen by document creator. Or you are just zooming in document in Word. For dynamic
    document scenario, many of you are using optical zoom in Safari on iPhone. All
    these scenarios do not change resolved font while ppem changes, which means choice
    is ppem-independent. For all these sizes font should be displayed as good as possible.\r\n\r\nFor
    me as layout applications developer, it means that this may be better to have
    different ppem sizes in one physical font, using same glyph index and changing
    glyph proportions as less as possible. Of course, it places restrictions over
    how font can achieve this and hinting is the way it is done now. \r\n\r\nOf course,
    font variants can include ppem axis to choose from. But there should be a way
    to choose ppem-independent variant. This will be application\u2019s choice to
    use ppem-independent variant if scenario is using fixed layout or optical zoom.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nSergey\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-31 18:50:23'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">All these scenarios do not change resolved font while ppem changes, which
    means choice is ppem-independent.\r\n\r\nAll 'page scaling scenarios' mean choice
    is ppem-independent, all 'font sizing scenarios' are another thing. Zoom scales
    pages. Print scales pages. Graphic designers size fonts. Web users size fonts.
    \r\n\r\nIf one lumps them together as Serge does, and then says, \"all sizes should
    be displayed as good as possible\", well, that's where we've been. \r\n\r\nWhat
    I did was make what would it look like if  \"each size would be displayed as well
    as possible?\" Then, I made a list of how to get that to a user. Then, I made
    a list of who's stopping it. Now, I'm writing a blog on why I think this sad state
    exists. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-08-02 11:04:52'
- author:
    name: gferreira
    picture: 110517
  body: "I am not very enthusiastic about a GX or GSUB approach with all size/ppem-specific
    glyph variants inside the same font. I think it would make things more complicated
    and create problems, for example: How to handle vertical metrics? What about backwards-compatibility?
    File size? etc.\r\n\r\nIt might be useful to make a parallel with interpolation
    technology. I find the Superpolator approach more powerful than MultipleMaster
    because it gives me more control on the topography of the variation space. I wish
    size/ppem-specific variations could follow a similar pattern.\r\n\r\nI like Karsten's
    ab123 procedure, but on b I would like to be able to specify a ppem-size instead
    of points. It should be possible to forget about points and paper altogether and
    deal only with serving ppem-specific designs for screen (step 1).\r\n\r\nIdeally,
    the infra-structure to package variations should be more generic than just a ppem
    axis and host other kinds of variations (there are many possibilities, specially
    if we finally embrace movement and color). The ppem axis should not expect proportional
    scaling of the design: higher ppem means only that glyphs get taller, not necessarily
    wider. And however sophisticated this system becomes, it should work with the
    lowest resolutions and plain b&w rasterization \u2013 screen resolution is increasing,
    but access to the web is not restricted to desktop computers.\r\n\r\nTo put my
    ideas in context, here is an article about the <a href=\"http://www.hipertipo.org/pdfs/ElementarTYPO27.pdf\">Elementar
    bitmap font system</a>, published in 2007 on TYPO magazine 27. Thanks to Pavel
    Zelenka for giving me permission to make it available on my website."
  created: '2009-08-03 12:43:58'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I agree that trying to stuff many different sizes in the same font seems
    crazy.\r\n\r\nI wonder about the limitations of ppem specific sizes without also
    accounting for resolution. Do you think that the same pixel pattern is equally
    good for 24 ppem at 72 dpi and 144 dpi? I have suspected for a while that there
    ought to be some interplay with resolution.\r\n\r\nAnd what about the monitor
    type? Wouldn't your ideal pixel pattern differ between, say, the same LCD monitor
    in portrait and landscape modes? (I'm typing this on a 24\" monitor currently
    in portrait mode with ClearType turned off.)\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-08-04 06:37:34'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I agree that trying to stuff many different sizes in the same font seems
    crazy.\r\n\r\nI think 64 is the max. Any more than that, yah, just crazy. \r\n\r\n>Do
    you think that the same pixel pattern is equally good for 24 ppem at 72 dpi and
    144 dpi?\r\n\r\nyes, but that problem is nothing when compared to the reading
    comfort of millions of my fellow humans in the real world of resolution. \r\n\r\n>And
    what about the monitor type? \r\n\r\nIt's called the weight axis. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-04 11:10:06'
date: '2009-07-29 16:10:00'
node_type: forum
title: OpenType size feature

---
