---
author:
  name: nina
  picture: 111699
body: "This might be a tough call, but I'm looking for examples of typefaces (preferably
  text faces) featuring very slightly slanted italics \u2013 ideally, something like
  the 3\u20134 degree range. Bonus points for slightly slanted italics that also don't
  show an excessively cursive flavor. Patria is one face I can think of off the top
  of my head that does this quite successfully. Any others?\r\nCheers!"
comments:
- author:
    name: til
    picture: 117251
  body: Eric Gill's Joanna has fairly upright italics.
  created: '2009-08-01 00:03:26'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Mark Simonson lists Trump Medi\xE6val and Vend\xF4me <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/29998\">in
    this thread</a>. But both of those seem more sloped. What about <a href=\"http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/adobe/joanna/\">Joanna</a>?"
  created: '2009-08-01 00:11:12'
- author:
    name: Gerry K
    picture: 111480
  body: Goudy Old Style
  created: '2009-08-01 00:16:39'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Well I'm not sure whether this is too cursive or not italic enough (only just
    off vertical) but [[http://www.fonts.com/findfonts/detail.asp?pid=202752|ITC Cerigo]]
    might fit the bill. It was created as a 'vertical italic' so quite interesting
    just in itself. The italic version is probably far too sloped.
  created: '2009-08-01 00:37:10'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Joanna works nicely. I've never liked it, so it seems to have been effectively
    excluded from my type radar :-). Very interesting in this context though! Thanks.\r\nSame
    with Goudy, which I do think has a bit more slant though.\r\n\r\nThanks also for
    the link to the Slanted Roman thread Tiffany. I suspect slanted romans might need
    more slant than I'm looking for \u2013 although I wonder if it couldn't work if
    all the other constituents of \"italicness\" are in place (like narrowness, lighter
    color, different serif structure maybe).\r\n\r\n*\r\n\r\nLooking at Letters of
    Credit, I just came across JvK's Roman\xE9e (page 108). Too calligraphic for my
    taste, but that's the sort of angle I'm looking for (Tracy quotes it as 4 degrees).
    It seems that much of its \"italicness\" (which really is uh, a bit much) is achieved
    by its narrowness \u2013 and am I crazy, or do the vertical proportions differ
    between its roman and italic? "
  created: '2009-08-01 00:54:34'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: '[[http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/fontfont/ff_seria_ot/|Seria]],
    [[http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/singles/fontfont/ff_quadraat_ot_regular_italic/|Quadraat]]'
  created: '2009-08-01 00:57:07'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Ben, that's a strange font! Looks like an upright italic with an\u2026 italic
    italic :-). \r\nWhat I'm looking for (sorry if I wasn't very concise) are italics
    designed to complement an (upright) base cut, which succeed in being differentiated
    enough from said base cut in spite of their steep angle, and if possible also
    without resorting to too much calligraphic trickery.\r\n\r\nKent: Thanks! Nice
    examples."
  created: '2009-08-01 01:03:20'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "This too slanted, Nina?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/novar_4571.png]"
  created: '2009-08-01 01:43:26'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Uhh, I'm so no fan of cancellaresca-esque folded-in ascenders. But the slant
    doesn't look too bad. Thanks! Goes on the list.\r\n\r\nAnyone got any more?"
  created: '2009-08-01 10:37:34'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "What about Caecilia?\r\n\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/search/caecilia/fonts/"
  created: '2009-08-01 10:57:37'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">(sorry if I wasn\u2019t very concise)\r\n\r\nNo you were concise, you've
    just specified something, slight of angle and light on calligraphic style, which
    in combination are not terribly effective to a purpose, so far. As a companion
    italic it sounds like not enough contrast to the roman, and it's not sounding
    particularly interesting as a stand-alone italic to have little or no italic or
    angle, so no one has made one that I have ever seen.\r\n\r\nSimilar missing fonts
    of this kind might include SuperUltraBlack Agates, Egyptian Humanists and Monospaced
    Connecting Scripts, or maybe not. ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-08-01 11:02:50'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"slight of angle and light on calligraphic style, which in combination
    are not terribly effective to a purpose, so far\"</em>\r\nAnd that's exactly why
    I'm looking for them: I'm curious if/how they can be (have been) made to work.
    I wonder if other constituents of \"italicness\" &ndash; such as narrower width,
    lighter color, gentle structural changes (like the treatment of joins and/or serifs),
    and possibly even different vertical proportions &ndash; can't pull the italics
    far enough away from the roman even without a heavy slant, or full-on chiro/calligraphic
    action. \r\nAnd before somebody says \"Why not try and see if you can make it
    work\": I will. But I'm sure this has been attempted before, so I'm trying to
    dig up some examples to learn from. Bad/non-working ones also welcome BTW.\r\n\r\n<em>\"Monospaced
    Connecting Scripts\"</em>\r\nHey, you don't think anybody ever wanted to type
    love letters on typewriters? ;->"
  created: '2009-08-01 11:59:51'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: mili &ndash; How did Caecilia not occur to me? Great, thank you!
  created: '2009-08-01 12:01:33'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>Monospaced Connecting Scripts</cite>\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/fonts/bitstream/script-12-pitch/\r\n(not
    too slanted either, but maybe a little too cursive ;-)"
  created: '2009-08-01 13:24:02'
- author:
    name: Gerry K
    picture: 111480
  body: Goudy's Village looks a little less slanted to me than Goudy Old Style.
  created: '2009-08-01 19:33:25'
- author:
    name: omeld
    picture: 116750
  body: "How about [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/adobe/itc-cerigo/book/|Cerigo book?]]\r\n\r\nTrinit\xE9's
    italic slopes at 3 degrees (and roman at 1).\r\n\r\nedit: I see Cerigo has already
    been mentioned"
  created: '2009-08-01 21:09:38'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: <a href="http://www.fountaintype.com/typefaces/eason">Eason</a>
  created: '2009-08-01 23:20:32'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "If you want a Goudy example, then [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/lanston/ltc-deepdene/|Deepdene]]
    is the one that fits the bill. But you'll find there's quite a bit of cancelleresca
    in it, inspired as it was by JvK's Roman\xE9e."
  created: '2009-08-02 15:20:38'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thanks guys. Deepdene is interesting (though for the record, I'm generally
    no fan of Goudy's work). Trinit\xE9 I should have known. Cheers.\r\nRandy: Eason
    is nice! Hadn't seen it before I think. I like the italics a lot actually."
  created: '2009-08-02 15:51:04'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Hi Nina,\r\nI don\u2019t have any typefaces to add, but a few links to older
    threads you might be interested in:\r\n<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/4088\">Sloped
    roman and italic in the same family</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/29998\">The
    Sloped Roman</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/49550\">What makes an
    italic belong to its family</a>\r\nF"
  created: '2009-08-02 18:19:45'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Hi Florian, and thanks. I'd read these previously, but it's good to look
    through them again in this context. (I'm probably rather lonely in this corner
    of the room, but the Nour Latin sample that Hrant posted in that last thread you
    mentioned is pretty much exactly the thing I'm looking for. Delicious. Isn't there
    more like this out there?)\r\n\r\nBTW, now I'm terminologically confused: Is it
    \"Sloped Roman\"? I've always said \"Slanted Roman\". Same thing?"
  created: '2009-08-02 18:33:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Have you experimented with slanting?\r\nIt is possible to mechanically adjust
    tilt in your layout application; you never know how faux that will look for a
    particular face till you try it, but I would suspect that taking an italic with
    a fairly ordinary slant of 7 or 8 degrees and modifying it to 3 or 4 would not
    distort it noticeably."
  created: '2009-08-02 19:05:13'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > BTW, now I\u2019m terminologically confused: Is it \u201CSloped
    Roman\u201D? I\u2019ve always said \u201CSlanted Roman\u201D. Same thing?</cite>\r\n\r\nSame
    thing. The concept pretty much arises from Morison, as put forward in \"Toward
    an Ideal Italic.\" I believe he used the phrase \"sloped roman,\" which is why
    it tends to get used preferentially. But I don't have a copy of the article to
    confirm."
  created: '2009-08-02 20:27:10'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Ah ok, thanks Kent (I admit I haven't read Morison's article yet, just read
    about it). \r\nAnd Nick \u2013 no, that hadn't occurred to me, but it might be
    a nice way to quickly try and see how much slant a given design needs in order
    to work. Cheers. "
  created: '2009-08-02 23:20:26'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "BTW Nina, turns out Dwiggins himself, in discussing the concept of Electra
    Italic (\xE0 la Morison's ideas) with Griffith, used the phrase \"[[http://typophile.com/node/4088#comment-30418|slanted
    roman]]\" in his letters.\r\n\r\nSo you're in fine company."
  created: '2009-08-03 13:17:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The Morrison's idea seems to have been a spectacular flop, in spite of some
    really great talents trying to execute it: Dwiggens, Van Krimpen.  Even Morrison
    abandoned it for Times New Roman. \r\n\r\nSo before putting work in such a direction,
    I'd want to have a strong response to the objection, of Griffith to Dwiggins in
    Kent's link, and by David above, that such efforts have too little contrast to
    the roman to serve as a satisfactory companion for emphasis. "
  created: '2009-08-03 14:26:15'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "You want that strong response from me? OK, here goes:\r\n\r\nFirst off, in
    my world both the \"pure\" slanted-roman, and the \"true italics\" are to be seen
    as abstract extremes on a continuous axis &ndash; in this case, the axis of minimal
    to maximal chiro/calligraphic influence in the italics, or maybe the chiro-\"delta\"
    between a given roman and italic cut (in terms of an additional chirographic influence
    on the italics causing structural differences between it and the roman). It's
    possible that Morison (and I'm speculating here, because as I've said before,
    I haven't actually read his text) was too extreme on this scale, too dogmatic.\r\n\r\nBut
    I wonder, might not a position on the non-chiro end of that axis still be workable
    if other factors were weighed differently? Simply stated, I'd say you can't (usually/easily)
    take chiro-ness out of \"the italics equation\" and not add \"italicness\" back
    in some other form without the result becoming, well, less italic! And thus less
    differentiated. But \"italicness\" can come about by different variables, and
    the chiro/calligraphic \"tone\" is just one of them.* There's slant as well, there's
    color, there's width/narrowness, there's possibly different vertical proportions;
    and I'm sure there's more too. So reducing both the slant and the chiro-value
    would probably mean that one would have to consider making the italics notably
    narrower, possibly lighter, and maybe smaller. And might that not work?\r\n* I
    could swear I've read a similar discussion on Typophile before, but my recollection
    of it is too fuzzy to quote or even find it.\r\n\r\nSo there's counter-weighing,
    and then I'd personally argue against the idea of the \"pure\" slanted-roman too.
    I think it should be possible to make very subtle differences in tone that don't
    need to escalate into too \"literal\" references to chirography. Things like different
    treatment of serifs and/or joins, or a subtly different flavor of the curves\u2026
    maybe.\r\n\r\nThe question really is, what do we need an italic to be, and can
    that be achieved both without borrowing excessively from chirography, and without
    an exaggerated slant? I would go out on a limb and say that I think it can very
    well. I'm not sure it will be pretty, but I'm pretty sure it can work.\r\n(And
    I'm well aware of the fact that now, I'll be expected to try and prove that. ;-)"
  created: '2009-08-03 19:03:31'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: <a href="http://store1.adobe.com/cfusion/store/html/index.cfm?store=OLS-US&event=displayFontPackage&code=1311">MVB
    Celestia</a>
  created: '2009-08-03 19:27:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Ok, I see you've got an idea that something else can substitute for the more
    written aspects of italic, such as the hook like serifs, and for the slant as
    a distinguishing feature. I have no idea what you have in mind, but if you have
    something, sure, go for it with a handful of characters, and see what happens.
    \r\n\r\nSlant is such an elemental thing, that I'm skeptical that you can substitute
    for it, but I'll be delighted to be proven wrong. We know that upright scripts,
    such as the recent beauty from Underware, can work, but removing both indications
    of motion, and slant and making it a companion to the roman--that will be some
    trick. \r\n"
  created: '2009-08-03 19:36:29'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "<em>\"\u2026what do we need an italic to be\u2026\"</em>\r\n\r\nTo assist
    in establishing a [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Salience_%28neuroscience%29|salient]]
    typographic hierarchy.\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-03 19:45:27'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: 'Nina, are you thinking of a non-cursive non-sloped italic for a particular
    font you''re working on? '
  created: '2009-08-03 20:10:46'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"MVB Celestia\"</em>\r\nPoint in case for the \"make it smaller\" variable.
    Also calligraphic, though.\r\n\r\n<em>\"To assist in establishing a salient typographic
    hierarchy.\"</em>\r\nYeah well that's the very short version. :-)\r\nJust two
    things: I think notions of \"standing out\" and \"hierarchy\" are tricky with
    respect to italics; they're not as simple/straightforward as bolds: They make
    their content stand <em>apart</em> rather than stand <em>out</em>; they're more
    emphatic, but not necessarily louder. So they need to pull away, but who said
    <em>how</em> they're going to pull away? So yes, I'd question if for their pure
    functionality, they need a strong* slant, and the chiro ductus.\r\n(* Note that
    I'm not advocating doing away with the slant altogether &ndash; in this case however
    I prefer/need it to be slight. So Ben it's not going to be <em>non-</em>sloped,
    and probably not entirely <em>non-</em>cursive either.)\r\n\r\nI will try what
    I have in mind, and will get back with that. I don't know if it will work, and/or
    if I can pull it off! But it's going to be a moment because I need some other
    stuff to be in place first. Just testing the waters for the moment, and seeing
    what's out there. Thanks all for the input!"
  created: '2009-08-03 20:13:38'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Nina -- Help me out: Do you make a distinction between \"chirographic\" and
    \"cursive,\" or do these terms signify the same thing for you?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-03 22:14:18'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Kent, I may well have been muddling up terminology.\r\nThe way I understand
    things, I'd say that \"chirographic\" is a much broader term generally meaning
    (in the context of type design) \"informed by handwritten forms\" or \"borrowing
    from the aesthetic of handwriting\". \r\n\"Cursive\", in my book, refers more
    concisely to a historically-informed way of shaping italics influenced by / based
    on a certain calligraphic style distinct/separate from the roman.\r\n\r\nIn terms
    of the \"broadness\" of the terms, it's probably something like\r\nchirographic
    > calligraphic > cursive.\r\n\r\nGlancing over my long post above, I could probably
    have used \"cursive\" in lieu of \"chirographic\" a couple of times\u2026 but
    the looser term wasn't quite unintentional: It appears to me that some current
    fonts have a <em>chirographic</em> quality to the italics that is absent (or not
    as pronounced) in the roman, but doesn't necessarily follow the \"classic\" <em>cursive</em>
    model. But I might be wrong \u2013 I'm not very calli-savvy.\r\n \r\nLet me know
    if I have the terminology mixed up (or this stuff doesn't make sense)."
  created: '2009-08-03 22:46:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nina, chirographic I think is more or less a 'typophile' word. I think it
    was invented by John Hudson to refer to the aspects of type that derive from or
    are influenced by handwriting. He prefers this to \"calligraphy\", as that means
    \"beautiful writing\", and so has a narrower meaning of decorative writing. The
    formal hands of scribes were more utilitarian, and these had the biggest impact
    on the development of printer's types. \r\n\r\nHrant picked up the term, and has
    used it more or less as a curse word against what he regards as the baleful influence
    of writing on type. But what exactly he objects to about writing's influence has
    never been entirely clear to me, so I generally avoid the term.   "
  created: '2009-08-03 23:07:47'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I understood Hrant's point was that although reading and writing need to
    use the same alphabet, the chirographic forms inherent in writing should not be
    assumed to be optimal for readability. (Because they are physically/physiologically
    different processes)\r\n\r\nPerhaps that wasn't the main focus of his logic but
    it did stick with me and makes sense. However, I would also think that more conventional
    chirographic stress would improve recognisability just through familiarity...maybe
    that's something not directly related to readability, I'm not sure. \r\n\r\nI'm
    sure Hrant will correct me (if he's around at the moment) :)"
  created: '2009-08-03 23:20:54'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"chirographic I think is more or less a \u2019typophile\u2019 word\"</em>\r\nReally?
    \"Chirography\" is the first entry in my thesaurus under \"handwriting\". \r\n(Collins
    Paperback Thesaurus, 2nd ed 1990)\r\n\r\nBen, I agree in hoping Hrant will correct
    us if we got him wrong, but I understood his stance pretty much the same way you
    did \u2013 that *type* (which is not written) should strive to be optimal for
    *reading* \u2013 which necessitates questioning if the shapes that used to be
    optimal for *writing*, and the aesthetic that stems from writing (comfortable
    and familiar as it is), is really relevant in type. And I think there was something
    about chirography being directly opposed to good notan, but I'll admit I don't
    get that part.\r\nI see his point on the necessary emancipation of type design
    from written forms. Actually, if one considers that books have been printed not
    written for more than half a millennium!, I find it rather strange that this demand
    would still seem so exotic to many. \r\nAnd this is a true Typophile-grade topic
    deviation. :-)"
  created: '2009-08-03 23:59:34'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chirography|Chirography]], not to be confused
    with [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Graphology|graphology]], both of which are
    subsets of [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Orthography|orthography]].'
  created: '2009-08-04 00:25:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I will use the term \"Italics\" as used by editors to describe the typographic
    form things like book titles should be set in. Italics have a different need than
    bold although both are attempts to separate some parts of text from the normal
    roman book face. Bold text set inline with the book face stands out indeed with
    weight being the primary driving force for contrast. Italics have a subtler use.
    They are not meant to leap out at you and make a jump in color like bolds do,
    they just make enough of a distinction for a person to see them as \"different
    than roman\" but not be emphasized above roman. You might call this a non-hierarchal
    difference or separation without dominance. \r\nBy removing weight change as an
    option, slant is one of the few remaining players that cuts across all type families.
    There are other things possible such as the degree of cursive form historically
    used. The earliest use of italic type mixed inline with upright roman texts were
    not from the same type family and a pairing was made based on how closely the
    x-heights matched when set as neighbors. Shortly after that, foundries took the
    opportunity to design a so-called matching italics to be sold as a companion to
    the upright. We can debate at this point, hundreds of years after the fact, how
    closely matched the early italics really were. Today, italics are IMO better matched
    as family than the older ones were. We have trained ourselves to accept the variance
    over the past centuries. Whatever we come up with as a substitute for the current
    use of slant with a strong cursive influence and use of entrance and exit strokes,
    we will also require several years before the reading public begins to \"get it\".\r\nI
    would be the last person on earth to say, \"don't even try it\" and I welcome
    the opportunity to see your attempts as you proceed. I would only say do not throw
    out the tools people are accustomed to--or at least do not curse them as evil.
    \ It is a good thing to boldly go about and create an alternative to current italics
    as long as you do not then make it a crusade to rid the world of other useful
    tools.\r\n\r\nIf you build it, they will come.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-08-04 00:48:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I see his point on the necessary emancipation of type design from written
    forms. \"\r\n\r\nI might agree to \"worth trying\" or \"seems plausible\" or \"will
    add greatly to our typographic vernacular\" but I have a tough time seeing your
    headlong leap into \"necessary emancipation\".\r\n\r\nPlease explain the imperative?
    What is the great tragedy that we might face if we all don't rid ourselves of
    the demon italics as we know it?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-08-04 00:59:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks for the correction, Nina, I didn't realize it was a standard English
    word. \r\n\r\nBen in the form you put it, \"the chirographic forms inherent in
    writing should not be assumed to be optimal for readability,\" I would agree,
    and think few would disagree. From Jenson on, type designers have modified joins,
    weights, and sizes for greater readability.\r\n\r\nBut Hrant's position has been
    far stronger than that. If I have understood him, he thinks that written forms
    are inherently less readable, because of following the stroke or \"moving front\"
    of a pen. When they show a moving front, where the two extremes of the stroke
    are linked as in a pen, that prevents a proper \"notan\" or balancing of black
    and white. And this messed-up notan of necessity makes the type less readable.
    \r\n\r\nThat more extreme view, which implies that type having more influence
    of the pen is inherently less readable, is what I don't buy. In my view, some
    features of pen writing help, and some hurt. Containing noticeable pen-like features,
    such as in Jos Buivenga's new Calluna, doesn't necessarily hurt readability.  \r\n
    \    "
  created: '2009-08-04 01:26:45'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "\r\nJoining in a bit late here but Giovanni de Faccio and Lui Karner's Rialto
    might interesting:\r\nhttp://www.tdc.org/news/2002Results/Rialto.html\r\n\r\nHope
    this helps."
  created: '2009-08-04 08:04:36'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Chris, no crusade in sight on this end, just a desire to see what italics
    are and what they do, and if they need to be what they usually are in order to
    do that job. \r\n\r\nLike you say, italics were usually separate types and only
    later were culturally \"adopted\" to be a subordinate \"style\" to complement
    a given upright font. And my view is, just because it was culturally \"learned\"
    to do it this way doesn't necessarily make it the Only True Way. \r\nSometimes
    today secondary fonts are used inline for a different way of adding gentle emphasis
    or denoting other layers of meaning, for example the sans variant of the text
    face or maybe a different typeface altogether &ndash; much like the old guys used
    cursive fonts as secondary \"italic\" ones. It's a great effect if done well,
    and shows IMO that the point is not that such an emphasis-mark needs to be cursive
    and/or slanted, but that it simply needs to be <em>different enough while still
    belonging</em> to the regular cut.\r\nBeyond that, it's a question of flavor:
    Setting a word in a matching sans within a body of serif is a <em>differently</em>
    \"flavored\" emphasis than using cursive italics &ndash; and that's where it gets
    really interesting: It means that if we only accept the cursive-italic form of
    \"italic\" emphasis, we accept that it automatically comes with a certain flavor,
    i.e. a specifically chirographic one; and I don't see how that is necessary, or
    even needs to make sense in many cases. Think about what you'd usually use more
    cursive/calligraphic fonts for: wedding invitations? Now why exactly would I want
    a book title highlighted in running text to look more festive, or more personal,
    than the running text &ndash; more hand-written? I only want it to stand apart!\r\n\r\n<em>\"I
    have a tough time seeing your headlong leap into \u201Cnecessary emancipation\u201D.\"</em>\r\nShort
    version (sorry, lots of work ahead): By \"emancipation\" I didn't mean to say
    that I'd want type design to break from centuries of handwriting tradition and
    history just for the sake of it, and crusade for that, and fight the pen, armed
    to the teeth, burning calligraphic type designers at the stake. My point is (and
    it *is* a rather benign one, much like William says) that type needs to stop being
    dependent on the pen and holding its hand, but continue \u2013 and a bit more
    boldly, perhaps \u2013 to search for its own, functional aesthetics from within
    \u2013 and ideally based on functionality, rather than tradition. Which isn't
    limited to italics, but also means asking questions like the one above.\r\n\r\n<em>\"That
    more extreme view, which implies that type having more influence of the pen is
    inherently less readable, is what I don\u2019t buy.\"</em>\r\nAnd I don't get.
    Looks like we need the man to get back here!"
  created: '2009-08-04 08:37:33'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: 'On the origin of the word "chirographic" in typography contexts: http://typophile.com/node/41687#comment-257944'
  created: '2009-08-04 13:34:13'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Nina, I wasn't criticizing your use of the two terms interchangeably above.
    I don't think either have clear, universally accepted definitions, so it's not
    a question of right or wrong, or even \"muddling\" the terms. I was just trying
    to understand how you are intending to use them. I admit to still not being quite
    clear.\r\n\r\nI think you've outlined the parameters of distinction (at least,
    within the context of what we commonly understand to be \"italic\") -- slope/slant,
    width, weight, relative vertical proportions, and form structure. You've expressed
    an interest in minimizing the first: the angle from the vertical. \r\n\r\nWidth
    and weight are typically fine-tuned when developing an \"emphatic companion\"
    to the roman -- typically slightly narrower and slightly lighter. Sometimes relative
    vertical proportions are adjusted when the angle is great.\r\n\r\nTurning attention
    to form structure, and the reason for my question about terms, I'm trying to understand
    which components constitute \"chirographic\" and/or \"cursive\" in your assessment.\r\n\r\nTaking
    sloped roman as a point of reference, which changes to the structure would make
    it necessarily \"cursive\"? Take the lowercase <em>n</em> for instance. If you
    remove the left serif of the right stem, have you made it cursive, since this
    one-sided structure typically arises from the motion of writing? What about if
    you remove both of the serifs on the right stem, now is it \"cursive\"? Does it
    matter whether the transition is soft & round or hard & angular? What about how
    high or low the join from arch to stem is; since a lower join typically arises
    from a single motion of the hand, does that play a defining role in \"cursive\"?\r\n\r\nWhen
    you object to (or question) \"cursive/chirographic,\" what are you directing your
    attention at?"
  created: '2009-08-04 14:10:38'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em><a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/41687#comment-257944\">http://typophile.com/node/41687#comment-257944</a></em>\r\nThanks
    for this, Kent. I will admit I'm not quite getting the difference you see between
    the definitions of the term as used by John and Hrant; they sound very similar
    to me. Or do you mean that John essentially introduced the term to structurally/aesthetically
    describe letterforms that are actually written by hand, whereas Hrant transposes
    it to typographic letterforms that borrow, structurally/stylistically, from handwriting?\r\n\r\n<em>\"Hrant
    used \u201Cchirography\u201D in a different discussion on the same list, and essentially
    as a slightly broader substitute for \u201Ccalligraphy,\u201D meaning an approach
    to letter formation that relies upon the logic of the hand.\"</em>\r\nFor the
    record, that's exactly the way I understood the term, and/or intended to use it.
    It seems like a very useful term to have, too.\r\n\r\nYour question about what
    exactly constitutes chirographic-ness (I know that's not a word :-) ) in italics
    is very interesting. I'll have to think about that for a moment (and finish a
    couple of other things on my desk). Will be back.\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-04 14:53:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Kent, thanks for the link, my above summary on the term \"chirographic\"
    was my mangled memory of your post. \r\n\r\nNina, I am uneasy about the philosophy
    I hear--maybe wrongly--in your phrase \"ideally based on functionality, rather
    than tradition.\"\r\n\r\nTo me this sounds like the radicalism of post WWI \"functionalists\"
    in architecture, who were opposed to ornament on the supposed grounds of improving
    function.\r\n\r\nFirst of all aesthetics is functional, because human beings want
    to live with beauty, if we have a choice. \r\n\r\nSecond, radicalism in type is
    misguided. I am not politically a conservative, at least the way Americans use
    that word, but I do agree with Stanley Morrison that type has an element that
    is inherently conservative: we are tied to letter forms that we inherit from the
    past, because if we go too far in altering the traditional forms people can't
    read them. \r\n\r\nThird, when talking about functionally and readability in italics
    you are facing a tricky situation. Probably all noticeably slanted letters are
    less readable, and certainly slanted letters in the midst of vertical ones slow
    you down. But they are *meant* to slow you down, and draw attention to the word
    or phrase. That is their function. So here you have slightly less readability
    as more functional for communication!\r\n\r\nI absolutely don't want to discourage
    your experiments, but I think that the history of radical functionalism in architecture
    shows that while it inspired a lot of interesting work, it is too narrow and restrictive
    as a philosophy.\r\n\r\nSo I am all for chirographic italics, and non-chirographic
    ones. Let a hundred flowers bloom.    \r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2009-08-04 15:00:11'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Bill, your post is thoughtful so forgive me if I do a little nitpicking.\r\n\r\n<em>Nina,
    I am uneasy about the philosophy I hear\u2014maybe wrongly\u2014in your phrase
    \u201Cideally based on functionality, rather than tradition.\u201D\r\n\r\nTo me
    this sounds like the radicalism of post WWI \u201Cfunctionalists\u201D in architecture,
    who were opposed to ornament on the supposed grounds of improving function.\r\n\r\nFirst
    of all aesthetics is functional, because human beings want to live with beauty,
    if we have a choice.</em>\r\n\r\nThe three things being opposed to functionalism
    here - tradition, ornament, and beauty - are all quite different. I don't think
    the slippage from one to the others is warranted. \r\n\r\n<em>if we go too far
    in altering the traditional forms people can\u2019t read them.</em>\r\n\r\nWouldn't
    that be a functionalist's foremost concern?\r\n\r\nAnd if there's a problem with
    radical functionalism in architecture, maybe it's its radicalism and not its functionalism.
    (Wouldn't radical traditionalism also tend to be \"too narrow and restrictive
    as a philosophy\"?)"
  created: '2009-08-04 16:09:34'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">necessary emancipation of type design from written forms\r\n\r\nI don't
    remember reading that...and I'm not sure whether you (or Hrant) are saying type
    design *needs to* move away from written forms or simply that it doesn't need
    to be limited by them. \r\n\r\nI can visualise the chiro- end of the spectrum
    more clearly than the fully 'notan' end...the chiro- end would surely have to
    involve traditional stress, some cursivity, stems with edges linked in a way consistent
    with hand movement. Does that mean the notan end would need to a) ignore these
    restrictions and do simply whatever makes readability best b) invert all these
    requirements resulting in independent countershapes, un-linked stem edges, reversed
    stress, no cursivity??? I wonder if both a) and b) could result in beautiful,
    readable designs.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-04 16:21:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Craig, you're right I wasn't precise. The problem is that \"functionalism\"
    has meant different things to different people. \r\n\r\nSullivan, who coined \"form
    follows function\" actually loved ornament. But if I remember rightly Mies van
    der Rohe was opposed to ornament as anti-functional. I don't know if he thought
    all ornament was ugly, but he was opposed to it. Also in type, Bayer's alphabet
    was I think also pared down of all ornament, breathing of this same ideology.
    \r\n\r\nSo I'm only really talking about one strand in functionalism, but I do
    think it's the one that made the most noise in the last century--at least what
    I remember of it, which is the second half.\r\n\r\nBy radicalism I mean that view
    that in any field we have to tear up the past and start again. So radicalism and
    traditionalism, in the senses I am used to using them, are opposed to each other.
    \r\n\r\nI certainly think type should be functional, but I think \"functionalism\"
    has been used for some ideologies that are too narrow and restrictive.\r\n\r\nActually,
    the italics are a good example showing why it is simplistic to identify functionality
    with lack of ornament and simple geometrical forms. \r\n\r\nThe lack of simplicity
    of italics, and their slower reading, helps provide a contrast, and so is functional
    in a different way from the companion roman.  \r\n \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-04 17:08:13'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"I\u2019m not sure whether you (or Hrant) are saying type design *needs
    to* move away from written forms or simply that it doesn\u2019t need to be limited
    by them.\"</em>\r\nFWIW, I think the two are connected: It should move away, and
    it will, in part exactly because it's not limited by them anymore. But since I'm
    now approximately tasting one snowflake on top of the tip of the iceberg that
    is all this stuff, maybe ask me again in a year, or ten. :-)\r\n\r\n<em>\"Nina,
    I am uneasy about the philosophy I hear\u2014maybe wrongly\u2014in your phrase
    'ideally based on functionality, rather than tradition.'\"</em>\r\nWilliam, to
    be honest, I don't see how the phrase above is all that radical. What I meant
    was quite simply: let's do things *because* they work, because they get the job
    done \u2013 not *because* they have previously been done that way. Note that that
    doesn't mean \"let's generally do things differently now, because the old ways
    don't work\". It means that the <em>reasons</em>, the <em>motivation</em> for
    doing things a certain way should not be based solely on precedent, but on a functional
    analysis. \r\nI do believe that, and I do try to work that way when I can. \r\n\r\n<em>\"if
    we go too far in altering the traditional forms people can\u2019t read them.\"</em>\r\nTake
    the example I quoted above: A typographer using a matching sans for emphasis inside
    a body of seriffed type. Are people not going to be able to read that, and understand
    that it's a subtle way of setting the \"sansed\" words apart?\r\nI'm not saying
    that's what I aim to do; I'm saying it's another (uncommon) way of doing something
    similar to the (common) italicization, and I'd maintain that people would \"understand\"
    it just fine.\r\n\r\n<em>\"I certainly think type should be functional, but I
    think \u201Cfunctionalism\u201D has been used for some ideologies that are too
    narrow and restrictive.\"</em>\r\nBut I didn't use the term \"functionalism\"."
  created: '2009-08-04 17:33:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think when we apply doctrine to things so severely, we can error on either
    side.\r\n\r\nIf ornament is OK, then lack of ornament must be equally OK\r\n\r\nWe
    can have a continuum without excluding the poles at either end. We can indeed
    bend the continuum into a mobius band and let be an unjudgmental field of endeavor.\r\nI
    don't think ornamentation or its absence is codependent on functionality. There
    are cases where poorly done ornament can inhibit function but that is a function
    of it being poorly done, not that it should not exist in any form. \r\nLikewise,
    there are cases where poorly done lack of ornamentation may inhibit function but
    again, this is an issue of quality, not omission.\r\n\r\nIt is not so much what
    you as how well you do it that makes it more or less functional, it is how well
    you do it.\r\nIt is also a case of personal taste coloring our judgement of function.
    I know I would puke every day if I had to live in Versailles but would love the
    Square Glass House. The beauty of the house is that it became an undeniable participant
    in the surroundings while inviting the surroundings of nature to play their daily
    changes to the inhabitants indoors. Absence of ornament was the key to letting
    Mother Nature (the true master of ornament) to do her best work.\r\n\r\nThe buildings
    of Mies are quite a bit better than the utter crap the long line of wannabes created
    who followed in later years.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-08-04 17:45:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nina, as I said, I wasn't sure whether you were advocating the narrow functionalism
    that I think is restrictive. I'm glad to hear you're not. I was responding further
    to Craig. \r\n\r\nI think we may have some difference in that I think that traditional
    forms have an edge on functionality just because of their familiarity. So I think
    they are one variable to think of when designing with an eye to functionality,
    though other things might override tradition. \r\n\r\nChris, I agree with you
    about Mies vs his imitators. I think that his style was very difficult and expensive
    to design in, and a lot of bad work was done, but though at its best it can be
    beautiful, and functional. I admit that even at their best I prefer Sullivan and
    Frank Lloyd Wright to Mies. \r\n\r\nI think that in type that this similar spirit
    of simplifying had better results: it led to using sans for text, which opened
    up the options and variety in type. Not exactly what was intended, but it ended
    up being good. "
  created: '2009-08-04 18:06:23'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Getting back to Kent's highly interesting formal question:\r\n\r\n<em>\"When
    you object to (or question) \u201Ccursive/chirographic,\u201D what are you directing
    your attention at?\"</em>\r\nThe overall atmosphere, I'm afraid. I wish I had
    a formula that exactly weighs the factors needed to achieve that effect, but I
    don't:\r\n\r\n<em>\"Taking sloped roman as a point of reference, which changes
    to the structure would make it necessarily \u201Ccursive\u201D?\"</em>\r\nAgain,
    I think it's an axis. There's no \"cursive switch\" that is either on or off\u2026
    there are some factors that are more deciding maybe, but all in all, I'd say cursivity
    can be achieved via a cocktail of a number of factors, such as the ones you mentioned
    (moving away from a full-serif treatment, softening terminals; lowering joins
    [and thus moving closer to a 'single stroke' structure]; softening connections);
    softening the stroke itself (like by tapering); softening curves; and then there
    are some structural features that are very typical of cursive treatments (like
    the ubiquitous descending \"f\"). \r\nI find some of the constituents of cursiveness
    are hard to express in words, such as a certain \"flow\" of the curves reminiscent
    of calligraphy. Then again, shapes can also be quite rigid and still be calligraphic,
    such as in Joanna \u2013 that \"g\" is structurally a dead giveaway, while the
    rest of the font doesn't seem very calligraphic to me at all.\r\n\r\nI'd suspect
    that any* combination of these points (and probably more) can play a part in making
    a letterform appear more or less cursive. I actually wish I had the time for a
    full structural analysis \u2013 but certainly that has been done before?\r\n(*
    Maybe not really \"any\" though.)\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nFWIW, a raw sketch from when
    I started trying to figure out how to do my italics: \r\n(Pardon the ugly antialiasing.)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cursiveness-f_5200.gif]\r\n\r\n#1
    is the original upright design.\r\nA purist might argue that via the concept of
    \"forward motion\", #2 is already a chirographic design. I don't think it is.
    The way #3 plays with the bottom terminal starts to feel chirographic to me, but
    still subtly enough so. \r\n#4 obviously doesn't work but starts out in the overall
    direction that #5 and #6 take: There is an overall different structure/concept
    to the lettershape. That descender I might object to, because is there really
    a cogent reason for such a deep structural difference to the roman \u2013 besides
    historical background? (As opposed to something like the \"a\", where at least
    to my eyes, the slope almost necessitates a one-storeyed structure on a purely
    visual level \u2013 I think a slanted double-storey \"a\" just rarely looks good.)\r\nBTW,
    note the taper in #6 too. #6 is a design I would probably not be crazy about making
    in my own font, exactly for its \"cursiveness\".\r\n\r\nI admit the \"f\" is a
    very obvious example\u2026 your \"n\" would have been more subtle.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nBTW,
    William, I'm really not sure how well the analogy of functionality in [text] type
    vs. architecture works \u2013 at least if you discuss its effects on a formal
    vocabulary. In architecture, functionalism has generally led to a sort of simplification/streamlining
    of the formal language, which in type would correspond to something like a minimal
    geometric sans \u2013 hardly \"functional\" for text."
  created: '2009-08-04 18:32:17'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite>Thanks for this, Kent. I will admit I\u2019m not quite getting the
    difference you see between the definitions of the term as used by John and Hrant;</cite>
    \r\n\r\nBriefly: The distinction is admittedly subtle and probably involves differences
    of \"description\" vs. \"prescription.\" A more complete answer would probably
    require getting embroiled in the whole discussion about Noordzij's theories, which
    I'm not interested nor qualified to get into.\r\n\r\nVery busy right now and won't
    be able to comment on other points until later. Carry on."
  created: '2009-08-04 19:18:48'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Nina, isn't there a missing link between #1 and #2: a simple sloped roman
    perhaps slightly condensed and optically corrected? To me, the curve on #2 seems
    to start quite much lower than on #1...losing its rigidity and turning already
    a bit cursive??\r\n\r\n[of course there are possibilities between all these examples
    :^)]"
  created: '2009-08-05 18:03:00'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"To me, the curve on #2 seems to start quite much lower [\u2026] turning
    already a bit cursive??\"</em>\r\nYou purist, you! ;-)\r\nBut yeah, looking at
    it again, maybe #2 already has too much forward lean/reach in the curve. I had
    a full-serif, simply sloped version of #1 too, and the same thing as a semiserif,
    but I couldn't get either of them to work. OK, under that aspect I should have
    left out #4 too.\r\nBut this is really very rough &ndash; you're right that between
    any two of those (plus branching out from this one-dimensional axis) there are
    many more possibilities\u2026 it's pretty complex once you start thinking about
    it. (Not that I'm surprised\u2026 ;-) )\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-05 18:55:25'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "haha, no, there should be no surprises at the complexity all these multidimensional
    balancing acts in type design ;)\r\n\r\n>You purist, you! ;-)\r\nAs you probably
    guessed I'm a bit playing devil's advocate now...I wanna see the 2-degrees-sloped-roman
    with whatever features you can come up with to make it distinct enough from the
    upright! There's all sorts of variables you could play with, as you have noted,
    cursivity is only one.\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-05 19:25:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nina, perhaps one between 4 and five with the ball terminal replaced by the
    same exit stroke treatment mirrored as used on the bottom of the f in 4?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-08-05 19:41:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Your example to me shows difficulty of pinning down what exactly is \"chirographic\".\r\n\r\nYour
    roman f already has a lot of very pen-like features: the asymetrical foot serif,
    the slight rise of the left part of the cross bar, the heavy terminal on the top.
    \r\n\r\nSo your progression to italic is not more chirographic, but just more
    \"cursive\", as I think of it, more of a running hand--written more quickly, as
    John Hudson has pointed out is a feature of italics. \r\n\r\n> In architecture,
    functionalism has generally led to a sort of simplification/streamlining of the
    formal language, which in type would correspond to something like a minimal geometric
    sans \u2013 hardly \u201Cfunctional\u201D for text.\r\n\r\nWell, you won't get
    an argument from me on the utility of geometric sans for text, but I do think
    that historically you probably would have gotten an argument from the Bauhaus
    folks, and from Renner, creator of Futura, and perhaps even from Tschichold in
    his radical modernist phase. My impression from not very systematic reading is
    that historically the pursuit of the \"neutral\" sans for text was due to the
    various movements in functionalism and modernism. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-05 21:44:46'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"difficulty of pinning down what exactly is \u201Cchirographic\u201D\"</em>\r\nOh,
    absolutely. Even this is a continuum. Maybe any font that is designed as \"strokes\",
    rather than areas of black and white, has a bit of chirography in its heart. And
    this one is monoline!\r\n\r\n<em>\"Your roman f already has a lot of very pen-like
    features\"</em>\r\nHrm.\r\nThe asymmetrical foot serif, it seems, needs to be
    there, for stability. If I make it symmetrical, the glyph falls over.\r\nThe left
    part of the crossbar is tapered on top for consistency with x-line serifs; and
    the font has tapering (wedge-slab) serifs overall. Not sure how that's a pen feature.
    \r\nAnd would you say ball terminals are by definition \"pen-like\"? How about
    Archer \u2013 is that a deeply chirographic font?\r\n\r\nIt's not that the idea
    of my font being chirographic makes me run away screaming \u2013 it just surprises
    me to hear that, because I wasn't working from that basis. Actually I even dropped
    my calligraphy class at that time\u2026\r\n\r\nAnd to wrap that up, I am certainly
    not a \"functionalist\" in the historical sense. But in my design work I [try
    to] value functionality more highly than prettiness.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\n<em>\"I
    wanna see the 2-degrees-sloped-roman with whatever features you can come up with
    to make it distinct enough from the upright\"</em>\r\nBen, I'm curious too. ;-)\r\nIt's
    going to be a little while though. I'm only collecting ideas at the moment\u2026
    \r\nhave a bunch of stuff to finish before I can seriously get to work on the
    italics.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nChris, do you mean something like this? (Please forgive
    the crudity of the curves.)\r\nIf I make the top curve shorter it stops looking
    like an \"f\".\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/f-new_4412.gif]"
  created: '2009-08-05 22:22:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "YES! exactly! You have dropped the device used in the roman but retained
    in-and-out curve yet kept it reasonably monoline. This is the typical contemporary
    pinnings of the humanist sans italic.  There are many out there (including a couple
    of mine).  I assume you are looking for some more radical departure than this
    though since this has recently become pretty mainstream.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-08-05 23:16:21'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"This is the typical contemporary pinnings of the humanist sans italic.\"</em>\r\nHey
    nice, learned something new again! Thanks.\r\n\r\n<em>\"I assume you are looking
    for some more radical departure than this though since this has recently become
    pretty mainstream.\"</em>\r\nNah not because it's mainstream, but because my font
    isn't a hum-sans. I feel the need to put something on that curve\u2026 it's feeling
    naked in a slab. And I think I need it to be less lyrical/flowy. More stable,
    essentially. But hey, this is an interesting tangent:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/f-more_4847.gif]\r\n#5
    is the one from just before. How about a serif/beak on that (#4 &ndash; instead
    of the ball in #6 from before)? I like the hard/soft balance in that. Or maybe
    one could even eliminate that descender again and put the semiserif back on (#3).
    But that might be a bit too serious. Ahh endless possibilities! :-)"
  created: '2009-08-05 23:40:58'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "This is perhaps veering into a critique-style thread. I'd like to pull back
    a bit to probe the philosophical aspect of your inquiry (which I find much more
    interesting than design-by-committee -- no offense intended).\r\n\r\n<cite> >
    And I think I need it to be less lyrical/flowy. </cite>\r\n\r\nI take this statement
    to basically summarize your principal objection to the cursive form structure.
    \r\n\r\nPreviously, we were beginning to inquire into the functional justifications,
    if any, behind cursive adaptations to form structure when creating an emphatic
    companion for an upright roman style. \r\n\r\nSo let me turn this inquiry back
    around now: Why would you include the ball terminal in your roman, but reject
    it as \"lyrical\" in the companion? What is your functional purpose in deviating
    between the two in this stylistic detail?\r\n\r\nBTW, \"because I like it better\"
    is perfectly fine with me. I'm playing Devil's advocate. You've set up your approach
    as being a functional, deep inquiry, so I'm probing with you.\r\n\r\n<cite> >
    I had a full-serif, simply sloped version of #1 too, and the same thing as a semiserif,
    but I couldn\u2019t get either of them to work.</cite>\r\n\r\nHow are you defining
    \"work\"? Aye, there's the rub. \r\n\r\nIt's difficult to judge the <em>f</em>&nbsp;
    in isolation, but I'm going to assume that for this inquiry we've accepted the
    value of a semiserif form structure to accompany the slight angle. So, the question
    becomes: if this half-serif termination works for other letters, including other
    long-stemmed letters like <em>d</em> and <em>l</em>, then why does it not work
    for <em>f</em>&nbsp;? \r\n\r\nIf we go on to accept that it doesn't, then does
    this mean that there is in fact a purpose to extending the stem below the baseline
    (which others have argued before is a \"cursive/chirographic\" affectation)? Does
    this extension need a terminal? Why? If so, what kind is called for?\r\n\r\nYes,
    it might have been easier to start with something other than <em>f</em>. This
    character may in fact be the most stubborn challenge. ;-)"
  created: '2009-08-06 13:45:36'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks for a thought-provoking thread, Nina. After turning this over, I'm
    convinced that there is no problem with having some cursiveness in a companion
    italic. The reason, as I have said, is that a companion italic, when in the context
    of the roman, should read a bit more slowly than the roman. \r\n\r\nI do think
    there is a lower boundary on readability of a companion, beyond which it starts
    to be dysfunctional. And I do think some old style italics fall below that minimum,
    including Caslon's original italics, in text sizes. But so long as the italic
    design is above that boundary, I think the decision of how cursive to make the
    italic is an aesthetic one, rather than a question of functionality.\r\n\r\nFor
    example, Adobe Jenson roman is a highly readable text font, with a lot of pen
    touches. And the highly pen-influenced italic, based on Arrighi, to me is just
    great, and highly functional.    \r\n\r\nThe fact that some of the features of
    your f which are similar to pen-drawn f's can be justified on grounds other than
    being chirographic to me just goes to show: many, though not all, of the features
    of the way expert scribes wrote letters with a pen were highly functional, and
    still work in type. "
  created: '2009-08-06 14:16:12'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: I'm intrigued. Nothing more to add at this stage ;)
  created: '2009-08-06 14:43:06'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>\"This is perhaps veering into a critique-style thread. I\u2019d like
    to pull back a bit\"</em>\r\nThank you! That's a good thing.\r\n\r\nI think one
    issue at the core of my search is that I object to a too-strong stylistic break
    &ndash; in terms of the \"feel\", or \"voice\" &ndash; between a (my) roman and
    its italic. \r\nI admit that this purpose is more aesthetic than functional (except
    that in type, aesthetics automatically take on a function in communication): Finding
    a tone, for the italic, that speaks on a similar level as the roman. And that
    means it can't be all swirly-girly when the roman is stable and somewhat rigid.
    Except maybe when you make it exactly for occasions that call for swirly-girly
    type of emphasis, but that should be pretty rare. :->\r\n\r\nSo it's a lot about
    the overall \"tone\", and that's how my objection to that ball terminal came about:
    I have nothing against ball terminals per se, but in the context of this font,
    their tendency to feel \"ornate\", or \"pretty\", or \"flowy\" has to be reined
    in by rigidity in other features. In the roman, I have a very stable and serious
    overall architecture. In the italic, *if* the structure gets more cursive, that
    seems to call for a harsher terminal to get some sort of hard/soft balance back.
    Conversely, in a slanted/semiserif italic that has more inherent rigidity, I can
    absolutely see the ball terminal work.\r\n\r\n<em>\"if this half-serif termination
    works for other letters [\u2026] then why does it not work for f?\"</em>\r\nSorry,
    I realize I was unclear there. I do actually think the semiserif structure can
    work for the \"f\" (as in #2 in the last picture I posted); the sentence you quoted
    was from my reply to Ben, who asked about a sloped-roman without the changes to
    the top curve (hood?), thus referring to a semiserif version of the slanted roman
    with an uncorrected curve. (Is this thread getting confusing? &%-) )\r\n\r\n<em>\"How
    are you defining \u201Cwork\u201D? Aye, there\u2019s the rub.\"</em>\r\nYep. I
    should probably have started this thread in a couple of weeks, when I will actually
    be working on the italics in-depth. I'm still theorizing\u2026\r\nThen again,
    I was only going to ask about examples to look at. Ah well. :-)\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\n<em>\"I\u2019m
    convinced that there is no problem with having some cursiveness in a companion
    italic. The reason, as I have said, is that a companion italic, when in the context
    of the roman, should read a bit more slowly than the roman.\"</em>\r\nBut cursive
    isn't just slower, it smells different! That's my main objection to the idea (see
    my post of 4.Aug.2009 12.37am above), and I don't think it can just be dismissed.
    \r\nLooking at the sort of usage that is common for italics today &ndash; say
    book titles or maybe foreign words in running text &ndash; why would I want to
    say that in a \"scriptier\" tone? A more \"handwritten\" one? That highlighted
    book title is not a personal note to the Dear Reader.\r\nAnd we must agree that
    this \"scriptiness\" of cursive italics, like the \"tone\" or feeling of any font
    really, gets through to the reader and communicates something besides raw content,
    and pure function (\"oh, it's highlighted\") \u2013 it communicates an atmosphere,
    a tone, a <em>voice</em>. If we don't believe that gets through to the reader,
    we might as well stop designing type.\r\n\r\n<em>\"The fact that some of the features
    of your f which are similar to pen-drawn f\u2019s can be justified on grounds
    other than being chirographic to me just goes to show: many, though not all, of
    the features of the way expert scribes wrote letters with a pen were highly functional,
    and still work in type.\"</em>\r\nOf course: Scribes were experts when it comes
    to letterforms, and some of these features are solutions to problems inherent
    in the lettershapes. I'd think that anyone who produces letters and has a reasonably
    good eye is going to see that an upright, serifed \"f\" (like an \"r\") needs
    a little extra help to not fall over, and will compensate for it with maybe a
    longer right-side foot serif, no matter if they're working with a pen, or beziers,
    or mosaic stones. "
  created: '2009-08-06 19:35:04'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > Looking at the sort of usage that is common for italics today \u2013
    say book titles or maybe foreign words in running text \u2013 why would I want
    to say that in a \u201Cscriptier\u201D tone? A more \u201Chandwritten\u201D one?</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    think you're exaggerating and over-generalizing here. \r\n\r\nAnd this is why
    I think it may be important to get to the bottom of what is \"scripty\" about
    the cursive form structure -- is it inherent in the structure or is it more a
    by-product of certain interpretations and implementations of that structure?\r\n\r\nThat
    is to say, if a semiserif structure (i.e., the in- and out-stroke structure generally
    associated with italic forms), when combined with slant, is inherently \"scripty\"
    in tone, then you're thrust back toward the option of a purely sloped roman.\r\n\r\nPart
    of the challenge in your quest is that you're trying to minimize both of the most
    distinctive and defining parameters of the typical \"emphatic companion\" -- angle
    *and* form structure. \r\n\r\nIf you wish to eliminate as much cursive structure
    as possible from your \"italic,\" yet still have it differentiate from the roman
    adequately to perform the distinguishing role, then you may want to allow greater
    angle than 3 or 4 degrees.\r\n\r\nConversely, if you're set on a very modest slope,
    then you may find you need to admit greater deviation in form structure (admit
    more cursive structure), and then find a way to divorce it from whatever \"scripty\"
    associations.\r\n\r\nYes, I realize that brings us back to where you started with
    your request for exemplars. And I fear I'm just repeating myself. So, good luck
    in your quest. I'll be interested to hear/see your conclusions.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-06 21:48:11'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Sorry to disturb that discussion that is way beyond my understanding but
    I have always liked Coline's \"Italic\" and now, in the <a href=\"http://www.typefacedesign.org/2009/\">works
    from the 2009 class at Reading</a>, there is \xC9milie Rigaud's \"Coline cursive\"
    and \"Coline extr\xEAme\" and I would be curious to know where they fit in your
    discussion. They look quite upright to me, yet \"italic\".\r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2009-08-06 22:20:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Nina, now I think I understand where you're coming from, and it makes perfect
    sense. If I get it right, you're concerned that doing the more usual stuff with
    an italic will make the italic too sweet or cute, and be of too different a character
    from your roman. So you're looking for a different way. Good luck with it!
  created: '2009-08-06 22:52:30'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: ":-D&nbsp;&nbsp;William, thanks for summing up what is probably the gist of
    what I've been trying to say in so many words now. Heh.\r\nAnd Kent: Thank you
    for your concise questions. Thinking about them is confusing and illuminating
    at the same time. :-)\r\n\r\n<em>\"I think you\u2019re exaggerating and over-generalizing
    here.\"</em>\r\nWell, I was trying to make a point. :->\r\nSofter version: I would
    claim that italics that follow a cursive model/structure tend to have a more \"handwritten\"
    flavor than their accompanying romans. And that this more chirographic flavor
    is, at the very least, not a required attribute from a perspective of what the
    style is required to do &ndash; and at most, detrimental, say to credibility,
    or to a constant \"tone\" throughout a text. \r\nMaybe there's something I'm not
    seeing here \u2013 but I will continue to believe this unless/until somebody convinces
    me it's wrong / incomplete / \u2026\r\n\r\n<em>\"if a semiserif structure (i.e.,
    the in- and out-stroke structure generally associated with italic forms), when
    combined with slant, is inherently \u201Cscripty\u201D in tone\u2026\"</em>\r\nI
    actually think that can be very scripty, and pretty non-scripty (depending to
    a great degree on what you call \"semiserif\" \u2013 I wish words were as specific
    as curves\u2026).\r\nI'll be trying to stay as close to the non-scripty end as
    I can, for as long as it appears to make sense. In the end, I'd rather have the
    thing be a bit more cursive in character than not differentiate enough. Well maybe.
    :-)\r\n\r\nThanks everyone for your input. This has been quite an exciting discussion!\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nBTW,
    thanks Michel for pointing out Coline. That's actually a prime example for the
    \"chiro axis\" I was trying to talk about somewhere above."
  created: '2009-08-06 23:29:43'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: How about slanting your italics leftward?
  created: '2009-08-06 23:42:48'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: 'Um, that would likely be way too unusual to do its job, no? Like, I''d expect
    readers to notice, stop and wonder, consciously. '
  created: '2009-08-07 00:07:10'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I suppose that's true. :-) They'd probably be wondering why this italic isn't
    more chirographic! ;-)
  created: '2009-08-07 01:40:58'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Nina -- To add to your exemplars, be sure to look at the italic in Jeremy
    Tankard's [[http://www.typography.net/type/font/kingfisher|Kingfisher]]. It's
    not slightly slanted (in fact, about 12\xB0 from vertical) but it is a notable
    expression toward the sloped roman ideal.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-07 13:40:00'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thanks for reminding me of Kingfisher, Kent. I'd looked at its italic previously,
    and find it quite interesting in terms of structure, the way it combines slanted-roman
    and cursive influences.\r\n\r\nBTW, I just realized that <a href=\"http://www.typotheque.com/fonts/fedra_serif_a\">Fedra
    Serif</a> has a pretty slight slant \u2013 makes up for it by being quite narrow,
    and more chirographic than the roman."
  created: '2009-08-07 13:58:43'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > depending to a great degree on what you call \u201Csemiserif\u201D
    \u2013 I wish words were as specific as curves\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nOkay, an illustration
    of what I mean for purposes of clarification. Taking a relatively neutral, linear
    design in order to focus on structure:\r\n\r\nA) the typical upright roman serif
    structure\r\nB) a common approach to semiserif structure\r\nC) roman, slanted
    6.34\xB0 (1:9 slope)\r\nD) semiserif, slanted\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/SemiSlopItal_6000.png]\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\nIs
    the B structure inherently more informal than A? Why? Does it seem more \"handwritten\"
    simply because people don't write like A? \r\n\r\n(At least, not anymore. They
    used to, of course -- that's how we got this roman structure!)\r\n\r\nWhen people
    stop handwriting altogether a couple generations from now, thanks to texting,
    will they completely lose the informal, handwritten association with this semiserif
    structure also?\r\n\r\nWhen you add slant to the semiserif structure, D, is this
    more inherently \"scripty\"? Festive? Personal? Suited more for a wedding invitation? "
  created: '2009-08-07 15:35:35'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>Is the B structure inherently more informal than A? Why? Does it seem
    more \u201Chandwritten\u201D simply because people don\u2019t write like A?</em>\r\n\r\nIt
    seems more handwritten I think because approximating it with a pen would require
    lifting the pen less often. (Or, from the other direction, people don't write
    like A because it requires lifting the pen more often.)\r\n\r\n<em>(At least,
    not anymore. They used to, of course \u2014 that\u2019s how we got this roman
    structure!)</em>\r\n\r\nMy sense (provided mostly from the Twomey <em>Fine Print</em>
    article I cited at my Typecon talk) is that the bidirectional serif on minuscules
    was actually a relatively short trend in later humanist scripts, influenced by
    inscriptions. I think your B is the structure closest to the way people wrote
    during most of that development. In other words, I might see B as a variant based
    on A today, but historically it might be more accurate to call A a variant based
    on B.\r\n\r\n<em>When you add slant to the semiserif structure, D, is this more
    inherently \u201Cscripty\u201D? Festive? Personal? Suited more for a wedding invitation?</em>\r\n\r\nIn
    addition to whatever implications of writing the semi-serifs might offer the slanted
    letters, of course they also help rebalance them. Which of those 'l's could stand
    on its own? A and D. "
  created: '2009-08-07 16:23:05'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Nina, where can I see a sample of this Patria that keeps popping into different
    threads? Do I e-mail Hrant?
  created: '2009-08-07 16:33:47'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > Which of those \u2019l\u2019s could stand on its own? A and D.</cite>\r\n\r\nPrecisely."
  created: '2009-08-07 21:15:15'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Quickly, Ben, the Patria sample Hrant usually links to is here: \r\nhttp://themicrofoundry.com/ad/CR.pdf\r\n\r\nI'll
    get back in full length later today."
  created: '2009-08-08 07:14:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "More thoughts--interesting topic! I think for your goals, solutions not so
    radical as trying to minimize both slant and cursiveness will work. If you do
    away with both traditional markers of a companion italic, I fear that it will
    just \"read\" as a different roman font. \r\n\r\nThe slant seems to be particularly
    useful. For example, Hebrew, which traditionally did not use slanted characters
    for emphasis, I believe use them now. They don't use cursive Hebrew as a companion--it
    has very different forms--but just use slant.\r\n\r\nThe problem with sloped romans
    of serif faces has been that for some reason they have tended to look very dull
    and flat footed. Maybe this just has to do with expectations about italics, but
    I don't know. The sloped roman of sans designs do work, so maybe it has something
    to do with normal roman serifs in the lower case not being happy with the rest
    of the character sloped, as in Kent's illustration.  "
  created: '2009-08-08 14:27:08'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > the bidirectional serif on minuscules was actually a relatively
    short trend in later humanist scripts, influenced by inscriptions.</cite>\r\n\r\nCraig,
    sorry, glossed over this earlier. First, we have to realize that writing was still
    mostly limited to the scribal tradition, as literacy was not widespread. You're
    right to point out that this \"roman\" structure certainly wasn't a majority style
    within that tradition, with plenty of counterexamples, especially up north. One
    wonders whether we'd be using this as a primary structure today if it weren't
    for the success and popularity of the thoughts that it was used to express. \r\n\r\nAnd
    I wonder if the scribes up north didn't react to these letterforms as being too
    \"petragraphic\" ;-) But that's a side topic for another day."
  created: '2009-08-08 14:37:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Kent, on the spread of the roman as opposed to blackletter styles, Harry
    Carter's account in \"A View of Early Typography\" is worth reading, if you haven't
    already. While his labored prose is a bit off-putting, the story is fascinating.
    \r\n\r\nThe roman style was associated with printing Latin classics, and contemporary
    writings of humanists. The battle of scripts got mixed up with the Reformation,
    with roman style being Catholic and blackletter being Protestant. According to
    Carter, the patronage of King Francis I of France was crucial for the spread of
    roman as the dominant script. Of course it wasn't until the 20th century that
    Germany, the last hold-out, switched to roman as dominant, though interestingly
    scientific writings in German were often in roman in the 19th century.\r\n\r\nI'm
    sure Carter's account could be filled out to a whole book, following the story
    after the early years of printing.  "
  created: '2009-08-08 14:53:06'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">Hebrew, which traditionally did not use slanted characters for emphasis,
    I believe use them now. \r\n\r\nInterestingly, the same is true of Thai, which
    now uses bold and italic in much the same way as roman type systems. Traditionally,
    Thai had up to five 'styles': classic (monoline), craft (calligraphic), tail (swashed
    and slanted), modern (kind of Western looking) and script (cursive and slanted).
    Combining these in text would be like mixing up Helvetica, Ondine, Avant Garde,
    Zapf Chancery and Comic Sans, so although they are all still in use, they don't
    normally complement each other for emphasis. I guess bold and italic came along
    with the arrival of word processors?"
  created: '2009-08-08 15:47:34'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Bill, I was actually thinking about the bilateral serif structure of Italian
    humanist miniscule vs. the semiserif structure of various insular miniscules,
    which is more germane to Nina's line of inquiry, leaving aside the completely
    alternate tradition of various blackletters for the purposes of this discussion.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-09 00:01:17'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Kent, I was just expanding on your "success of the thoughts" comment.  What
    I should have added is that the italic spread with the formal roman, not with
    blackletter, which was letter spaced--including lower case!--for emphasis. That
    argues to me that they are not so far off in spirit after all. '
  created: '2009-08-09 01:34:20'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Kent, very briefly (impending deadline eating my time, sorry): Thanks for
    the visual example, that clears up a lot. I'd say on my \"cursivity\" or \"chirograpic-ness\"
    scale, even your #D (which is actually pretty close to what I'm going to use at
    least as a starting point) is still very moderate. It does look slightly more
    \"informal\" to me than the roman (which may come down to some apparent inherent
    \"ease of writing\" in these shapes \u2013 what Craig said) but not \"scripty\"
    yet. But I'd argue most italics in text fonts don't stop there: Add more \"cursive\"
    features like curved in- and out-strokes, lower joins, more \"directed\" and narrower
    curves, and it becomes more what I'd call scripty \u2013 essentially, these classic
    constituents of cursive structure are inherently chirographic.\r\n\r\n*\r\n\r\n<em>\"If
    you do away with both traditional markers of a companion italic, I fear that it
    will just \u201Cread\u201D as a different roman font.\"</em>\r\nWilliam, you may
    well be right. I'm prepared to fail, and adjust my ideas/goals accordingly. But
    there are so many variables in this (on such a fine-grained scale no less) that
    I feel I can't predict what'll happen (and what'll work) until I actually try.
    This thread has been massively educational though! (Thanks all.)"
  created: '2009-08-09 08:27:50'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Here's one I just came across: <a href=\"http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/burodunst/novel-pro/\">Novel
    Pro</a>. I like the way the italic looks more like a condensed slightly cursive
    roman. Would be interesting to see it in text settings.\r\n\r\nI think you're
    probably done with this question though?"
  created: '2010-05-18 18:54:30'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Dunno, I don't think questions like this are ever \xABdone\xBB.&nbsp;&nbsp;:-)\r\nI
    find Novel quite strongly cursive btw, in terms of structure no? Looks to me like
    cursive structure and narrowness are mainly what pulls it away from the Roman.
    But it really is quite upright, which I hadn't realized."
  created: '2010-05-24 00:29:14'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "I don\u2019t suppose anybody is going to mention Eras?"
  created: '2010-05-27 21:33:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: What would you suggest as a Roman to use with Eras as "italic", Joe?
  created: '2010-05-27 22:10:33'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Wasn't there an upright Eras at one point, optimised for low-fi screen rendering?
    Well in any case Eras is more oblique than italic, no?
  created: '2010-05-27 22:28:12'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Just popping back in (what a cool thread this was!) to show the results of
    this search. \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ernestine-italics_3818.gif]\r\nThe
    angle is 3.58 degrees (which works out as an 1/16 slant) and the structure not
    very cursive (at least to my understanding), though the curves are tighter, and
    it uses a semi-serif structure. \r\nBoth these restrictions (slight on slant and
    cursiveness) seemed desirable due to the pairing with the Armenian part of the
    family, which shares the same slant and overall structure (so the Italic doubles
    in function as a very harmonious companion to the Armenian \u2013 see the \xABFamily
    Concept\xBB graphic here: http://ernestinefont.com/about-the-design/). \r\nThe
    challenge then was to still make it work as a companion Italic to the Roman; which
    is why I started this thread. To my eye it works \u2013 it's a fairly subtle Italic,
    but it reads nicely, and the upside of it not being excessively cursive or slanted
    is that it can also work for longer passages without becoming too tiring to read
    (I've actually used the Italic as a standalone font, too)."
  created: '2011-12-18 10:10:57'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "I see you maintained the \u201Citalic is narrower than roman\u201D convention.
    Was it to further differentiate from the Roman or to harmonise with the Armenian?
    (or both?)"
  created: '2011-12-18 13:02:43'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Mostly the former; width turned out to be crucial in differentiating the
    Italic from the Roman. \r\nIn this respect the Armenian could follow the Italic
    to some degree (we drew the Italic and the Armenian simultaneously)."
  created: '2011-12-18 13:25:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "To be continued from here:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/88224\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-18 16:35:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The following is based on posts in another thread, starting from:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/88224#comment-487778\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\n>
    I would have thought you might be critical of how upright the Ernestine italic
    is.\r\n\r\nCritical of it? Here's a clue: the slant is <em>exactly</em> the same
    as in Patria...  :-)\r\nBut I know what you're getting at: I've said -and maintain-
    that an Italic doesn't need\r\nto be cursive, and should not have a very different
    voice than its Roman. That might\r\nimply I that believe in strong slant, but
    actually I like seeing it only as strong as it\r\nneeds to be based on the other
    characteristic; in fact characteristics such as width,\r\nweight and even x-height
    are typically sufficient in decent repro conditions even at\r\nsmaller text sizes,
    so all that remains is that the slant be visible. When I made\r\nNour&Patria I
    arrived at 1/16* (~3.5 degrees) as a good place to be, but to be honest\r\nthis
    did take into account that the slant of the Latin-Italic was to match the slant\r\nof
    the \"non-Italic\" Armenian design, which I didn't want to be too slanted (for
    reasons\r\nof readability, and to leave room for an \"Italic\" in the future).
    Now, Ernestine has\r\nan Armenian too** so can follow that logic; a font that
    is unlikely to end up with an\r\nArmenian (like, most of them :-) does not need
    to be so stingy in terms of slant.\r\n\r\n* It only makes sense to use integer
    slopes.\r\n\r\n** It's interesting that although Ernestine's Italic is\r\nin fact
    influenced by another writing system I don't think\r\nit's possible to glean that,
    and certainly not as having had a\r\nnegative effect. Probably due to the wonderful
    \"speculative\"\r\ndesign that Latin type has enjoyed, it feels quite acceptable.\r\n\r\nAs
    for using Italic structures (like for the \"a\" and \"g\") I can think of three
    reasons:\r\none that Nina already mentioned which is that some Roman structures
    just don't look\r\ntoo happy when slanted; the other is to pull the Italic just
    a little but further away from the Roman (so nothing to do with cursiveness per
    se*); and the third could be as a\r\nruse, to make people accept it (although
    this smells of peer acceptance).\r\n\r\n* You will notice that Nina and I avoid
    the hokey descending \"f\".\r\n\r\nBTW, I'm happy you like Ernestine.\r\n\r\nAs
    to John's and Nick's valid questioning of calling Ernestine's Italic a \"slanted-\r\nRoman\",
    I would say (as I did at TypeCon-LA) that -at least until the style becomes\r\na
    valid, mainstream way of making Italics (as I think it was before WWI)- it's most\r\nuseful
    to see it as a loose spectrum, unifying the various ways people can go with\r\nits
    spirit, in contra to the traditional Italic philosophy. So sure, Ernestine's\r\nItalic
    is not a mechanical (and not even a subsequently-tweaked) oblique, but it\r\nhas
    the spirit of the slanted-Roman. To me even something like Adelle's does.\r\nhttp://www.fontshop.com/fonts/singles/typetogether/adelle_italic_ot/\r\n\r\nI
    guess the \"Roman\" in \"slanted-Roman\" is a two-edged sword: it reinforces the\r\nItalic's
    [typically] subservient role, but on the other hand it might create too\r\nstrong
    an association in terms of how it was designed. What I was getting at\r\nabove
    is that once enough slanted-Romans have been made we can tighten/expand\r\nthe
    terminology. I would hate to see a fragmentation of effort that terminological\r\ninfighting
    can lead to.\r\n\r\nWould I have made Ernestine's Italic exactly like that? No.
    For one thing\r\nI would have made the diagonals straight. But maybe for that
    reason it\r\nwould have ended up less successful on the market...\r\n\r\nBTW Nick,
    this discussion naturally pertains less to sans fonts,\r\nalthough I certainly
    do appreciate what you've done with S&S.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-18 18:55:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Going back and actually reading [most of] the posts...\r\n\r\n> The concept
    pretty much arises from Morison\r\n\r\nActually there are a number of older -and
    better- precedents.\r\nEven ATF's stuff is older (although it suffers from the
    same\r\nextremeness*) although in their case they had a mechanical\r\nexpedient
    (in the form of the pantograph).\r\n\r\n* See below.\r\n\r\n> Morrison's idea
    seems to have been a spectacular flop\r\n\r\nThat's because -as Nina suggest-
    he was too extreme.\r\nDeberny and G&S did much better.\r\n\r\n> Chris, no crusade
    in sight on this end\r\n\r\nSpeak for yourself, lady.  :-)\r\nI'm on my horse,
    flail and shield at the ready.\r\n\r\nNina, your 7-\"f\" illustration (Aug. 5,
    2009) is great.\r\nCan I re-use it?\r\n\r\n> a companion italic, when in the context
    of the roman,\r\n> should read a bit more slowly than the roman. \r\n\r\nThat
    makes no sense. The only way to slow\r\ndown immersive reading is to break it.
    Bad.\r\n\r\n> you're concerned that doing the more usual stuff\r\n> with an italic
    will make the italic too sweet or cute\r\n\r\nFrom my Daidala interview:\r\n\"\r\nIf
    you believe that a typeface carries emotional associations in its forms*, then
    you have to conclude that the conventional practice of having only italics for
    emphasis is one-dimensional. There can be many kinds of emphasis, many nuances
    a discerning typographer might want to give snippets of text. So what would be
    nice is a system of fonts than can nest into each other and convey various emotions,
    such as stress, sensuality, whatever. What do italics convey? Mostly informality
    and motion \u2013 not necessarily what the text being marked is about.\r\n\r\n*
    And if you don't, how do you justify making yet more fonts?\r\n\"\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-18 20:47:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nina, in response to your points in the other thread: <em>John, I'm glad
    you like it. And surprised about your assessment of the Italic! When you speak
    of \xABconventional Italic\xBB letter shapes I assume you must be looking at things
    like the a and g? ... But if you look at the whole thing in terms of construction,
    they're interrupted (? not continuous) strokes, the curves are quite rigid, and
    rather than pen-reminiscent instrokes and outstrokes this one has flat serifs
    (ok, half ones) in the placement typical of a Roman; all characteristics that
    to me make it more of a slanted-Roman than a classic cursive-infused Italic.</em>\r\n\r\nNot
    just the a and g, but also the related bowl shapes in the b d p q, and the uninterrupted
    construction of the e. Note that I was responding to the top line of <a href=\"http://ernestinefont.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/11/specimen_sale2.gif\">this
    image</a>, which perhaps biases things by including only one n and no m or h.
    These letters are closer to what I think of as slanted-roman forms.\r\n\r\nI entirely
    agree with you that this is something other than \u2018cursive\u2019, but it probably
    deserves some better term than slanted-roman. I'd be inclined -- following my
    analysis that all literary cultures produce both formal (slow, interrupted, <em>formata</em>)
    and informal (fast, cursive, <em>corsiva</em>) styles -- to call this a \u2018formal
    italic\u2019."
  created: '2011-12-18 20:47:45'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Oh sorry, I was going to move my post over but thank you John for quoting
    it.\r\n\r\n<cite>\xABI entirely agree with you that this is something other than
    \u2018cursive\u2019, but it probably deserves some better term than slanted-roman.
    I'd be inclined -- following my analysis that all literary cultures produce both
    formal (slow, interrupted, formata) and informal (fast, cursive, corsiva) styles
    -- to call this a \u2018formal italic\u2019.\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nHm, I see what
    you mean. Oh yes, the e, of course \u2013 I've certainly made some details <em>softer</em>
    than in the Roman too, like those curves in the diagonals that Hrant never liked
    but I insisted on :-). I spontaneously quite like the \xABformal italic\xBB term
    the way you propose it."
  created: '2011-12-18 21:17:56'
date: '2009-07-31 22:55:57'
title: Slightly slanted italics

---
