---
author:
  name: P A Hardy
body: "Dear People,\r\n\r\nAs a lay enthusiast I would like to ask for your advice
  please.\r\n\r\nI have been given a short diary written by my great-uncle Charlie
  in the First World War, accounting his experiences. He was a conscientious objector
  who served as a stretcher-bearer. Largely for my own interest I plan to transcribe
  the diary. However I may donate a copy to the regimental museum of the King's Own
  Yorkshire Light Infantry, the regiment he served with. \r\nI would like to choose
  a typeface which complements the material, so if people have thoughts on what might
  be a good choice please let me know. As a healthcare worker and amateur grnealogist
  with zero design skills I would be grateful for any ideas. It also follows that
  I can't really justify an expensive professional typeface suite for this project
  for my own amusement, as it would be unfair on my family. I am ashamed to admit
  in this company that truetype would be better for my word processor.\r\n\r\nAs a
  further aside, I should perhaps add that Charlie was a conscientious objector because
  of his Communist leanings/ affiliations, so perhaps the typeface doesn't want to
  look too \"official\" or \"establishment\"!\r\n\r\nThanks in advance,\r\n\r\nP Hardy"
comments:
- author:
    name: Kristian M
    picture: 111606
  body: "When in Doubt, Set it in Caslon\u2026\r\n\r\n(Sorry, to mutch brandy today\u2026)"
  created: '2009-08-02 21:06:08'
- author:
    name: Kristian M
    picture: 111606
  body: "I can\u2019t even spell\u2026 ;-("
  created: '2009-08-02 21:08:16'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: "Great-uncle Charlie was in good company. Stanley Morison was a C.O. during
    WWI as well, and his gift to typography is the [[http://typophile.com/node/54148|most
    ubiquitous of TrueType fonts, Times New Roman]].\r\n\r\nI'll be banned from this
    forum if I advise you to use Times, but you might take a look at Perpetua, also
    available as a TrueType font. It's roughly contemporary (1928), and it's the work
    of another English iconoclast, Eric Gill. (Full disclosure: Some designers avoid
    Gill's work because of his [[http://typophile.com/node/58166|bizarre private life]].)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-03 01:54:53'
- author:
    name: jb_tubman
    picture: 114559
  body: "Mr Hardy, that sounds like a fascinating and worthy project. It may be of
    interest to more people and institutions than you might expect. (The Imperial
    War Museum comes to mind.) My cousin did a similar project with letters sent home
    from family members and friends who were serving with Canadian forces during the
    Second World War.\r\n\r\nYou say that you can\u2019t afford a professional typeface.
    Here are a question and a suggestion.\r\n\r\nThe question is: what typefaces are
    available to you on whatever system you are presently using? The experts on Typophile
    (I\u2019m not an expert) may be able to help you better if they know what you
    have at hand.\r\n\r\nThe suggestion is: if you think that you may be doing other
    such projects in the future, it might be worthwhile to purchase a typeface to
    use for them. The price may not be as high as you think. For example, someone
    suggested Perpetua; Monotype (at www.fonts.com) sells the Perpetua Complete Family
    Pack for $121 in Canadian dollars; that would be about \xA368. That gives you
    standard (Roman), italic, bold, and bold italic.\r\n\r\nGood luck with your project!
    We would be interested in knowing what your final choice is.\r\n\r\nJim Tubman\r\nCalgary,
    Alberta, Canada\r\n\"The Stampede City\""
  created: '2009-08-03 02:49:54'
- author:
    name: P A Hardy
  body: "Thanks to you all for your comments. I can see Perpetua has good credentials
    for my idea - and Gill's \"Lifestyle\" avoids the establishment feel :) .\r\n\r\nYou
    can't live in the UK and shun Gill's work -- Gill Sans is almost as all-pervasive
    as Helvetica here!\r\n\r\nMy currently available serif faces are;\r\n\r\nTNR (well,
    yeah!)\r\nLinux Libertine (available with genuine small caps, which is something
    at least)\r\nLiberation serif\r\nGentium (wouldn't suit a book, I think?)\r\nCardo
    (too venetian?)\r\nLido STF\r\nMgOpen Canonica  -- this is one of four free Magenta
    fonts; they look like copies of more famous fonts (Helvetica, Optima, Avant Garde,
    Times). \r\n\r\nYou will probably have guessed I am a linux user. With the exception
    of Frantisek Storm's contribution they're a bit of a motley crew I admit, so it
    wouldn't hurt to look at a decent quality addition."
  created: '2009-08-03 07:54:59'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: Unfortunately, I think that <a href="http://klepas.org/openbaskerville/">Open
    Baskerville</a> is still at a too early stage...
  created: '2009-08-03 10:36:11'
- author:
    name: jb_tubman
    picture: 114559
  body: "Mr Hardy, if you are a Linux user, you are probably undaunted by the prospect
    of installing the TeX system on your machine. You don\u2019t have to use TeX to
    take advantage of the fonts that come with it. The list of those fonts can be
    found at http://www.tug.org/fontname/html/Standard-PostScript-fonts.html\r\n\r\nIf
    you don\u2019t want that hassle, have a peek at Latin Modern:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.tex.ac.uk/tex-archive/fonts/lm.zip\r\n\r\nIt
    is basically Knuth\u2019s Computer Modern in OpenType, with a comprehensive set
    of diacritics added for all the European languages that use the Latin alphabet.
    \r\n\r\nComputer/Latin Modern is not too popular with the Typophile crowd (for
    completely valid reasons) and is really designed for mathematical and scientific
    work, but it wouldn\u2019t hurt to take a look at it.\r\n\r\nAll that said, the
    suggestion of Perpetua still looks good to me.\r\n\r\nJim Tubman\r\nCalgary, Alberta,
    Canada\r\n\"The Stampede City\""
  created: '2009-08-03 17:54:35'
- author:
    name: P A Hardy
  body: "Thank you Jim (BTW my name is Paul)\r\n\r\nI used LaTeX to type my wife's
    MSc dissertation (sans serif, as specified by the Univ) so I have that option
    available, but I have had a play with Perpetua on the vendor sites & it does look
    rather good. I find myself leaning that way...\r\n\r\nPublishingMojo: it seems
    the design community had more scruples than the Church of England in this area,
    as the CoE used Gill Sans quite widely until very recently!\r\n\r\nThanks for
    the everyone's help -- I feel the Perpetua suggestion is calling to me."
  created: '2009-08-03 19:17:57'
- author:
    name: jonathanhughes
  body: "For something a little more \"out there\" you could try Gill's Joanna:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fonts.com/FindFonts/Detail.htm?pid=243306&/cgi-bin/MsmGo.exe?grab_id=0&page_id=4599&query=JOANNA&SCOPE=Fonts\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-03 19:28:45'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: <em>Times</em> (not Times New Roman) is bundled with XFree and <em>URW Palladio
    L</em> is bundled with Ghostscript.
  created: '2009-08-03 21:51:58'
- author:
    name: P A Hardy
  body: "\"Times (not Times New Roman) is bundled with XFree ..\"\r\n\r\nYou're absolutely
    right but I have the MS webcore fonts including TNR & Arial from a legit source.
    I added them because my family are luke-warm about the linux thing.\r\n\r\nWell
    my children are pretty sanguine, my wife is more sceptical. But hey, she can use
    the laptop! :)"
  created: '2009-08-04 11:50:58'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Let me come down on the anti side with Perpetua, for setting text. In Metal,
    the 14-point master was considered OK, other sizes, no. When first photocomp then
    digital type became the norm, Perpetua suffered; no attempt was made to adjust
    the fonts for the different printing technology. The possible exception would
    be if all you are going to print will come off a laser or ink-jet printer -- i.e.,
    no offset printing will be done. If your lasers look fine -- not too thin -- then
    you are safe on that issue.\r\n\r\nMoving from the purely technical to the aesthetic,
    many of us don't consider Perpetua a good font for text. Gill's two best known
    fonts for text are Joanna and Pilgrim, with the latter being the best. Having
    said that, there has always been a faction that liked Perpetua for text, as well
    as the side that thought it dreadful. Whatever your personal feelings, one aspect
    of a *professional* designer is to consider how your decisions affect an audience.
    Be aware there are decidedly strong feelings about Perpetua.\r\n\r\nI would add
    that you can do a wonderful book with just two fonts, a roman and an italic. Purchase
    price for two fonts, if that is a factor, is quite small these days. As to free
    fonts, you will need the advice of others; I am afraid I don't know much about
    free fonts, save those bundled with Adobe software. \r\n\r\nIt is always hard
    to pick a typeface without reading the material. Given your description of the
    man, his time, and the project, I would take a long look at Matthew Carter's Miller,
    an modern implementation/interpretation of the Scotch Romans. If the purchase
    price -- about U.S. $70 for two fonts -- is too high, then you are back to selecting
    from the myriad of free fonts out there. I would pick a simple font; let the words
    come through, they are far more important than the typeface. "
  created: '2009-08-04 13:33:54'
- author:
    name: P A Hardy
  body: "Thank you charles_e.\r\n\r\nOddly I had wondered about Scotch Moderns, but
    as the more erudite people here hadn't mentioned them I said nuffin'. I will look
    into Miller as well (I was also coveting Storm's Hercules recently). In so far
    as I have a preference it is for type designed for digital use by newer designers,
    ahead of digitisations of established fonts.\r\n\r\nIf I am honest with myself
    I don't really <em>need</em> a typeface for this, but I probably just want one.
    What is abundantly clear is that the quality of the type will far exceed the quality
    of the typesetting & design.\r\n\r\nBut once again thank you to all for your comment
    and suggestions -- it is great to have access to such expertise.\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-04 19:43:03'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Paul,\r\n\r\n<cite>What is abundantly clear is that the quality of the type
    will far exceed the quality of the typesetting & design.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, I
    should have added that the choice of typeface usually pales in importance beside
    the choices of the page size, line length, leading (linespacing) and margins.
    If you get these proportions in a pleasing manner, most would forgive using, say,
    Times Roman.\r\n\r\n<cite>In so far as I have a preference it is for type designed
    for digital use by newer designers, ahead of digitisations of established fonts.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis
    one I don't quite understand. There are slavish digitizations of metal fonts,
    and for technical reasons, they usually give poor service. Too, there are designs
    of type that appear dated. Their design was of a period of time, and as that passed,
    so too did the attractiveness of the fonts. Revivals of such can be used, I suppose,
    in an effort to recall those times, but one is usually better served by other
    choices. There are fonts that seem to span generations, to span *fashion*.\r\n\r\nThere
    is also the phenomena of (graphic) designer boredom (\"I've used that before\";
    or \"I've used that too many times before\"). This couples with typeface designers
    desire for \"something new.\" IMSLTHO, new is fine as long as it doesn't get in
    the way of the primary purpose, which is still communication between a writer
    and an audience. But new is hard. Type is not art, you do not use type to ask
    an audience to view something in a new light. If you want to ask that of an audience,
    you must write the words yourself, perhaps changing not only the words, but the
    form by which you present them. \r\n\r\nGood luck with it,\r\n\r\nCharles "
  created: '2009-08-04 20:40:04'
- author:
    name: Dr Strangelove
  body: "\"There is also the phenomena of (graphic) designer boredom...\"\r\nPhenomena
    is plural, like media, criteria, and data. This data does not meet that criteria,
    which is really a phenomena for this media. Makes me cringe each time I see it.
    Sorry for the rant. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-05 03:11:39'
- author:
    name: terenaam
  body: "Here's a good Naskh font for free, having Arabic, Urdu & Persian support;\r\nhttp://fonts.qurancomplex.gov.sa/download/UthmanTN1_Ver07.otf"
  created: '2009-08-05 08:49:05'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "I would definitely check out www.fontmarketplace.com. This is a legitimate
    outfit that probably has a special contract with Monotype to offer good fonts
    for very cheap money.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fontmarketplace.com/category/serif-fonts.aspx?show=all\r\n\r\nFor
    example you can get the excellent Joanna system (another font from the freaky-deeky
    Eric Gill) for under $20 USD:\r\nhttp://www.fontmarketplace.com/font/joanna-family.aspx\r\n\r\nBTW...
    Gentium would look lovely set in a book.\r\n\r\nMikey :-)"
  created: '2009-08-05 10:33:59'
- author:
    name: rvavruch
  body: "I'm an amateur as well as a GNU/Linux user. :) I recently laid out a magazine
    ([[http://exhibitmag.co.za/|Exhibit]]) using Scribus.\r\n\r\nFor financial reasons
    I also only had free fonts available. Originally I intended to use Gentium for
    my serif font but I found it too busy in body copy for my own taste, so I used
    Linux Libertine instead. I was mostly satisfied with it, I liked the small caps
    as well.\r\n\r\nThanks for the heads up on Open Baskerville, definitely something
    I'll keep my eye on."
  created: '2009-08-05 13:31:09'
- author:
    name: P A Hardy
  body: "<cite>In so far as I have a preference it is for type designed for digital
    use by newer designers, ahead of digitisations of established fonts.\r\n\r\nThis
    one I don\u2019t quite understand. </cite>\r\n\r\n\r\nThat's because you're expecting
    a sensible rationale :) What I mean is if it came to a choice between buying from
    a large house who have a digitised classic, say, Bodoni or Garamond, or an independent
    foundry which made a new all-digital face which gave a nod to historic forms then
    I might lean to the latter, for purely emotional reasons. Call it the woolly,
    liberal well-meaning, small-producer-supporting viewpoint. On this side of the
    pond I could say \"Guardian reader\" & people would say \"Ah, yes\".\r\n\r\nThe
    folly of this position of course is that someone like Matthew Carter has covered
    both sides of this divide with work for Linotype, Bitstream, Carter & Cone etc.
    But then for me this is an indulgence, so I reserve the right to be irrational
    :)\r\n\r\nI like Gentium but like rvavruch I would find it distracting in a book."
  created: '2009-08-05 19:58:04'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>The folly of this position of course is that someone like Matthew Carter
    has covered both sides of this divide with work for Linotype, Bitstream, Carter
    & Cone etc. But then for me this is an indulgence, so I reserve the right to be
    irrational :)</cite>\r\n\r\nWell, the other folly of the position is, with someone
    of Matthew Carter's age, in the metal era, working for a large foundry such as
    Linotype was all there was. When digital type became viable, he did break off
    & form a smaller foundry. Twice.\r\n\r\nThe three RDI's I know are Matthew, George
    Mackie, and the late Richard Eckersley. Richard was a \"Guardian reader.\" I'm
    not going to start telling George Mackie stories, but he surely has his outrageous
    side(s). Matthew Carter is more of an enigma, at least to me, but I'd not confuse
    a sure hand with simple conventionality.\r\n\r\nBut I do understand. For several
    years, I avoided Miller because it was first recommended to me by someone whose
    instincts I did not like or trust. My loss."
  created: '2009-08-05 20:44:16'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2009-08-08 02:02:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I recommend Coldstyle by Ephemera, based on Oldstyle No.7.\r\nWith the subtle
    distress that is built in, it will evoke the letterpress typography of the era.\r\nIt
    is also relatively inexpensive.\r\nI just took a glance at a copy of \"The Common
    Cause\", a suffrage publication, from 1912, and the text is printed in an \"oldstyle\"
    face.\r\n\r\nI would also say that if you keep the layout simple and not overly
    ambitious, any putative lack of design skill will be offset by your good taste."
  created: '2009-08-08 02:36:18'
- author:
    name: P A Hardy
  body: "Well, may I say a big thank you for everyone's helpful comments. Having had
    to put Charles straight about my lack of reason, I now have to contend with accusations
    of good taste from Nick! I'm from Leeds, Nick -- need I say more? :)\r\n\r\nI
    looked at all your suggestions, and thought a good deal. Coldstyle is of course
    a fantastic value proposition with roman, italic and small caps combined for $20.
    But in the end I have plumped for Miller, principally for this reason; a diary
    will of course have dates peppered throughout the text, and as far as I can tell
    it's the one with oldstyle numerals, which I think would be better.\r\n\r\nI plan
    to buy the roman this month (26GBP via ITC which is very good) & start writing,
    adhering strictly to paragraph styles. Then next month I will get the italic &
    slot it in for the date tags. A brief unsystematic survey of Google's look inside
    feature suggests this is more contemporary for diary datelines than small caps,
    which seem to have been used later.\r\n\r\nThanks again to you all,\r\nPaul\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-09 09:19:22'
- author:
    name: P A Hardy
  body: "\". A brief unsystematic survey of Google\u2019s look inside feature\"\r\n\r\n..of
    course this should say Amazon's, not Google's. Apologies"
  created: '2009-08-09 09:54:58'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > I plan to buy the roman this month (26GBP via ITC which is very
    good) [.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.] Then next month I will get the italic </cite>\r\n\r\nI'll
    just point out that if you license directly from [[http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/Miller/styles|Font
    Bureau]] and get three or more styles at one time, you will be entitled to a discount
    of $5 USD per style. (I believe that's about \xA33 GBP right now.)\r\n\r\nSo you
    could invest in MillerText-Roman, Italic, and Roman Small Caps at once for $105
    (~\xA363). Save by buying in bulk! ;-)"
  created: '2009-08-09 14:04:23'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "As an iconic American figure often said, \"hold on thar.\"\r\n\r\n<cite>But
    in the end I have plumped for Miller, principally for this reason; a diary will
    of course have dates peppered throughout the text, and as far as I can tell it\u2019s
    the one with oldstyle numerals, which I think would be better.</cite>\r\n\r\nAs
    far as I know, the numbers in Miller are aligning, about 3/4 cap height. In this
    regard, similar to Monotype Bell. Nice enough, but not oldstyle.\r\n\r\nAgain
    as far as I know, the oldstyle numbers for Miller haven't been generally released.
    I bought the roman os figures from Carter & Cone after a few email exchanges.
    I believe M.C. said he hadn't yet drawn up oldstyle italic figures; I made something
    serviceable (with permission) for my own use.\r\n\r\nI believe that generally,
    Miller is sold through FontBureau, and FontBureau has had other designers work
    on some aspects of the Miler family. Whether or not <cite>they</cite> have gotten
    around to the OS figs or not, I don't know. In any case, the OS figs would be
    an extra purchase in Type 1 format, or, if included in the OT format, it may be
    the OT format has a higher price.\r\n\r\nThere is nothing wrong with the shorter,
    aligning figures of Miller, unless, of course, you have your heart set on oldstyle.
    If you do, please check thoroughly on what is available, and at what price.\r\n\r\nEdit:\r\n\r\nOne
    of the oddities of modern life is that I can offer to set the diary for you at
    no charge, but I cannot offer to lend you the fonts at no charge. I imagine this
    is a project you want to do yourself, but if it comes down to it, after all this
    internet talk, I'll offer the composition for free, from your keystrokes. Final
    product to be a PDF file, the same as we would give any publisher."
  created: '2009-08-09 14:23:50'
date: '2009-08-02 20:17:49'
node_type: forum
title: Lay newbie seeks right typeface

---
