---
author:
  name: zlatko.gudasic
body: "I'm working on a personal photography web site project, in my spare time, so
  it's unlikely it will be out anytime soon, but nevertheless I'd like it to have
  recognizable identity.\r\n\r\nI\u2019d like to put couple of personal collections,
  like seascapes (examples 1 and 2), subtle suburban shoots (example 3), there\u2019s
  one nostalgic grunge collection I\u2019m working on, etc. and there\u2019s one ongoing
  project I\u2019m working on with local photo club that includes on location people
  shoots like example 4 (it should be interesting locations and use of external strobes).\r\n
  \r\n [img:sites/default/files/old-images/example1_3731.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/example2_4647.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/example3_6693.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/example4_6130.jpg]\r\n
  \r\n \r\nI\u2019m attaching the logo I like best of those I\u2019ve played with
  until now (so far i like light gray, blue, orange combo):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/identity_5536.jpg]\r\n\r\nI've
  also played with logo from letters GZ, I'll post best what I came up until now (by
  my opinion) a little later, because I don't have it with me right now.\r\n \r\nI\u2019d
  like the logo, type and color used to say:\r\nvision in photography (hence my idea
  for the stylized eye)\r\nurban\r\nart\r\nprofessional (as in high quality)\r\ngrunge
  (eyelashes and pupil on the eye are sort of grungy to communicate that)\r\npositive
  (by the use of blue, green colors, maybe put pupil in orange for accent).\r\n\r\nI'd
  like to attract young crowd.\r\n\r\nI was looking for type that would not be to
  strict, but not too loose either, and that has sort of \"artsy\" feel to it (possibly
  countered by word \"photography\" in sans serif). You can see on the logo what I
  thought might be a good idea, but I'd really like more input from experienced people.\r\n\r\nAny
  help and input appreciated!\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "What a broad amount of things to convey in a poor single little logo! ;-)\r\nThe
    overall composition isn\u2019t bad (which it\u2019s not easy given the many different
    elements. I suppose being a photographer helps :-)\r\nSome random thoughts:\r\n-
    I would revise the colour palette (they seems too many and don\u2019t blend well
    together). Also, if you think of the logo in a portfolio website, too many colours
    could distract away from the photographs.\r\n- I don\u2019t like the slanted light
    grey \u201Cphotography\u201D. You could try an upright light (as in font weight)
    black version.\r\n- Compared with the serene samples you provided, the eye in
    your logo appears almost menacing..."
  created: '2009-08-04 11:29:28'
- author:
    name: zlatko.gudasic
  body: "lol, i have to agree with almost everything you've said and suggested (last
    part really made me laugh).\r\n\r\n   I have couple of versions of the eye, actually
    I have one that I like more than the one posted (but it's not incorporated in
    complete logo just yet), which is indeed much less intimidating and more soothing,
    which should make it in tune with most of the portfolio.\r\n\r\n   Would it be
    a good idea to reduce color palette to white, shade of gray and one color (I kinda
    prefer light green or blue)?\r\n\r\n   What would be the font you'd suggest for
    \"photography\", and more importantly, what about the font for name?\r\n\r\n   There's
    an interesting adjective you've mentioned, \"serene\", really has me thinking
    about different concepts.\r\n\r\nThanks for your feedback, appreciate it!"
  created: '2009-08-04 12:12:48'
- author:
    name: Special-K
    picture: 117327
  body: "I thought of the Incredible Hulk's eye...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/images-1_3589.jpeg]\r\nI
    would agree with riccard0, use 1 or 2 colors. A good idea is to make black, white
    and gray only versions, before colorizing. Look at it upside down too. It'll help
    you balance the shape and air around the logo. Hope that makes sense."
  created: '2009-08-04 15:50:48'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Why are you forcing your logo to say all of that? That's what your photography
    is for.\r\n\r\nLooking at your sample work, which is great, I get a sense of serenity,
    simplicity, focus. The logo seems way to busy and contrasts too much with the
    style of your work, IMHO.\r\n\r\nSimplify.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-04 15:59:31'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "<cite>Why are you forcing your logo to say all of that? That\u2019s what
    your photography is for.</cite>\r\n\r\nExactly.\r\n\r\nLook at the identity for
    this photographer: http://www.behance.net/Gallery/Donald-Graham-Photographer-Identity/162567\r\n\r\nIt
    doesn't have to be completely black and white, and use Helvetica, but something
    like that is much more subtle and clean, and gives people a much more secure feeling
    about who you are as a photographer. \r\n\r\npenn"
  created: '2009-08-04 17:32:44'
- author:
    name: zlatko.gudasic
  body: "Rookie does rookie mistakes.\r\n\r\n For starters I got rid of literal eye
    in logo and I've played with concept of circle that would represent it instead.
    I also got rid of color, till I find satisfactory gray scale result, which I may
    or may not colorize.\r\n\r\nWell here's one of the versions I like so far (although
    I feel logo of letters doesn't balance well alone, without full name and \"photography\"):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logo_zg_4010.jpg]\r\n\r\nThanks
    all for help!"
  created: '2009-08-05 13:40:42'
- author:
    name: picard102
    picture: 112137
  body: Mark has some promise, the type choice though is awful imho.
  created: '2009-08-05 14:59:11'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: Agreed there. I think a very simple type treatment would be much more in line
    with the mark.
  created: '2009-08-05 16:27:00'
- author:
    name: zlatko.gudasic
  body: "I'd really appreciate more info on what you might think is suitable font?
    What should I look for..\r\n\r\nAnyway, with mark unchanged for now, I came up
    with this:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/zg_dot_6681.jpg]"
  created: '2009-08-05 19:12:49'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: i'm wondering if a lower case g, with two especially round counterspaces,
    could be turned 90 degrees counterclockwise and give the impression of two eyes--which
    could refer to seeing and therefore photography. Or that could be lame-o...  try
    it i say
  created: '2009-08-05 19:32:11'
- author:
    name: Special-K
    picture: 117327
  body: "I'd make the mark smaller too. It seems heavy on the left. Maybe:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/zg_dot_6681-2CX_6384.jpg]\r\n
    I like how the Z's are on the same baseline. You still needs some work on it.
    I keep seeing it as a stylized mouse with the small hole as the eye and the bottom
    of the g as a tail though."
  created: '2009-08-05 19:55:53'
- author:
    name: zlatko.gudasic
  body: "@evanbrog I tried that, but what I get reminds me of eye glasses and seems
    more like oculist logo.\r\n\r\n@Special-K  -> amazing, there's even small triangle
    from g that looks like mouses legs. Talking about validity of critique, I didn't
    even see that. First thought is to differentiate letters by tonality.\r\n\r\nI'll
    post when I have something to get more constructive criticism.\r\n\r\nthanks"
  created: '2009-08-05 20:17:46'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "I see the side of a guy's face who has a huge nose.\r\n\r\nWhat's the \".\"
    in the name for? It makes it look like one of those cheap website logotypes. The
    fact that the font is rounded and the mark is not also doesn't work for me. Try
    a font that's a bit less of a novelty/cartoony\r\n\r\npenn"
  created: '2009-08-05 21:18:22'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "OMG, a mouse! Now I can't not see it. \r\nBefore the mouse, it kind of looked
    like handcuffs to me.\r\n\r\nI thought the \"g\" in the mark must come from <a
    href=\"http://www.linotype.com/892/kabel-family.html\">Kabel</a>. Have you tried
    Kabel for the name? Or maybe that's too obvious. But your current type looks a
    bit too soft / roundy / Web 2.0 / nondescript to my eyes. Especially next to that
    angular mark. But maybe that's just me\u2026"
  created: '2009-08-05 22:34:05'
- author:
    name: zlatko.gudasic
  body: "I'd like to point out that nothings too obvious :). \r\n\r\nActually, I didn't
    pick that last font by taste. It was listed in \"21 most used fonts by pro designers\".
    It's gotham rounded and I used rounded instead of normal because rounded had appropriate
    letter c. What started as, \"let me pick a font that others use frequently\",
    ended up like cheap web 2.0 look a like, all by accident, and not much consideration
    from my side.\r\n\r\nLastly, if you have some comments please drop them, they
    help me tremendously."
  created: '2009-08-05 23:28:09'
- author:
    name: Ed_Aranda
    picture: 117416
  body: "<cite>Why are you forcing your logo to say all of that? That\u2019s what
    your photography is for.</cite>\r\n\r\nMan, I gotta remember that line. Good stuff.\r\n\r\nAs
    for the logo, I think you\u2019re heading in the right general direction, but
    perhaps down the wrong road. I like the simplicity, but not crazy about the type
    choice, super-tight letter spacing or mark.\r\n\r\nTake a look at [[http://38one.com/cleverblog/kristy-harrison-wedding-photography|this
    photography logo I found on Google]]. I think its pretty awesome. The whole shutter/aperture
    thing might be overdone, but it\u2019s geometric qualities make it well-suited
    for a logo, and this particular one I think was extremely well-executed.\r\n\r\nHave
    you thought of a typeface as simple as Frutiger? Maybe something along these lines:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/photo_6369.png]\r\n\r\nLooking
    at your photos, something simple and contemplative seems more your style. Just
    a thought."
  created: '2009-08-05 23:48:46'
- author:
    name: Will Stanford
    picture: 114286
  body: Squeeek!
  created: '2009-08-06 00:57:22'
- author:
    name: zlatko.gudasic
  body: "Tell me how you like this other concept I've been working on, that's simple
    stylized eye, and simple font:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gz_eye_logo_small_6410.jpg]"
  created: '2009-08-06 06:47:00'
- author:
    name: manofscience
    picture: 117603
  body: "Great work Zlatko, the new mark is much better. Stylised and very simply
    drawn, but communicates instantly, and could also be interpreted as a camera lens
    or lens flare.\r\nThe type is a bit heavy, get that right and I think you're done.\r\n\r\n--\r\nHenry
    Hadlow - <a href=\"http://work.dlow.org\">Graphic Design / Art Direction</a>"
  created: '2009-08-06 16:28:56'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: Big improvement. Nice and clean and lets the work speak for itself. I agree,
    I could stand to see the a bit thinner weight typeface with the mark.
  created: '2009-08-06 18:44:01'
- author:
    name: microspective
    picture: 111866
  body: "Agreed with the last two comments. Nice to see the evolution of this logomark.\r\n\r\nI
    wonder, though: the type will work so nicely; is the icon really necessary for
    this logomark's purpose?"
  created: '2009-08-06 18:53:27'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: What if you use uppercase G in [[http://typophile.com/files/zg_dot_6681.jpg|this
    version]] ? The amalgamation of Z and G (and that extra small circle) make for
    a very unique symbol. Somewhat heavy, but that can be countered with color selection
    and the line widths.
  created: '2009-08-06 23:22:57'
- author:
    name: zlatko.gudasic
  body: "thanks all for comments. I'll need more opinion about type in a day or so
    (I'll showcase different versions). I also have another concept for your critique
    (or more precisely another version of the same concept).\r\n\r\n@epsilicon ->
    the only difference between uppercase and lowercase in appropriate type is their
    weight. What you see in symbol was actually the uppercase g. I'm not sure I wanna
    use this symbol. Although I could somehow workaround mouse trap, g really reminds
    me of handcuffs like altaira said, and if I can't use that g, I don't see the
    point, because it was main attraction of that symbol in the first place."
  created: '2009-08-07 00:16:51'
- author:
    name: zlatko.gudasic
  body: "Tell me do you think these logo from letters concepts are worth additional
    exploration (last one is gz)?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/zg_ideas_4605.jpg]\r\n\r\nAlso,
    what would you pick for type for name for previous logo (I've removed \"photography\"
    not to interfere with my/yours judgment):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/circle-font
    tryout_6461.jpg]"
  created: '2009-08-08 11:35:49'
- author:
    name: sandrosandro
    picture: 112363
  body: "Love the first zg mark but without the grey parts. Reminds me of original
    Futura typeface: http://www.p22.com/Lanston/twentiethcen.html\r\n\r\nLook at the
    letter g."
  created: '2009-08-08 14:21:02'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "I like your new marks. The one youre working with here is creeping me out,
    because it looks like an eyeball. For the name, my favorites are number 13 followed
    by number 5. I would like 5 better if it were a bit smaller (since it's all caps)
    in relation to the mark.\r\n\r\npenn"
  created: '2009-08-08 17:56:08'
- author:
    name: picard102
    picture: 112137
  body: I like the first ZG mark as well. Drop the eye and go with it.
  created: '2009-08-08 21:47:01'
- author:
    name: jsml
    picture: 116357
  body: "i like #7 of the above and the one you posted on august 5th.  i might suggest
    considering color on #7, though...???\r\ni think you've done a lot of good work
    since your first two postings--the first couple seem completely different from
    the later ones."
  created: '2009-08-09 03:36:51'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Type: I like #8, but I generally adore Kabel Heavy. Might want to make it
    smaller. #1, #2, and #7 work nicely too. Or #9, but that's maybe a bit mannered.
    I'd prefer something with a round \"o\" to go with the circular mark.\r\n\r\nI'm
    also somewhat intrigued by the third (\"gz\") mark \u2013 it doesn't read, but
    it looks interesting and fresh. A bit of \"camera\" in there, and \"pedigree\",
    maybe.\r\n\r\nYou may have reached the \"ask 5 designers, get 6 opinions\" stage.
    :-)"
  created: '2009-08-09 08:09:50'
- author:
    name: zlatko.gudasic
  body: "thanks for words of encouragement. I've been only listening advices I got
    here, so drop them in, they help me allot.\r\n\r\nThose new marks are crude versions
    of ideas I draw on paper, or have in my head, and I've found that my illustrator
    (I basically only now how to correctly use type and pen tool from photoshop) knowledge
    is way to restrictive to transform ideas to something useful. So, right now I'm
    watching tutorials on Illustrator and I'll be back in a week or so with hopefully
    more refined marks."
  created: '2009-08-09 08:20:15'
- author:
    name: Special-K
    picture: 117327
  body: "I'm still liking the one from August 5th the best. It looks strong, yet with
    it as all lowercase it has a pleasant friendly appeal. The lowercase g looks like
    a subliminal smile. It's not really noticeable or distracting, but I like it a
    lot. I like how the \"holes\" of the o, g & c resemble the circle of the lens/eye,
    so the type looks like it belongs to the mark. Nice! I like the thickness of the
    outer circle of the lens/eye, cause it matches the thickness of the letters. I'd
    maybe play the lens/eye some more and see if you can make more resemble a camera
    lens. Myself, I don't mind it al all.\r\n\r\nIn the other versions, the type doesn't
    especially balance with the thickness of the mark, except maybe #8 & #10. On #5
    as all uppercase, the name seems to long to me for all uppercase. I think it would
    be painful reading on a large scale sign for your studio. Like emails \"shouting\"
    being all uppercase. \r\n\r\nSome of the letters stand out badly to me in certain
    versions: The s in 3 & 4, the i in 3 & 9, the accents in 13 & 14, the t in 14,
    the g in 3 & 4 will look like an 8 at small sizes\r\n\r\nThe first zg logo is
    interesting, and is worth some exploring - it might not be recognizable unless
    you repeat or resemble those characters in the name. The gray makes it look like
    a hour glass to me.\r\n\r\nThe second looks like 29. The 3rd, well... not seeing
    anything.\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-10 17:29:13'
- author:
    name: zlatko.gudasic
  body: "I now have couple of concepts I'm refining. I think I'll have them ready
    by the end of week.\r\n\r\nIn the mean time I want your opinion about this logo:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/concept1-revisited_5638.jpg]\r\n\r\nIt's
    Polaroid inspired, and I feel it looks very professional. "
  created: '2009-08-10 21:12:09'
- author:
    name: sandrosandro
    picture: 112363
  body: This is a bit too complicated, think how it will look at small sizes. And
    also think when will you use it so big.
  created: '2009-08-11 11:50:38'
- author:
    name: paulstonier
    picture: 114324
  body: "I would argue that it's not too complicated depending on how he uses it.\r\n\r\nZlatkoGudasic
    can sit on its own in some cases. While depending on what he is doing \"PHOTOGRAPHY\"
    can change and just keep in at widely tracked Futura light as part of the branding.\r\n\r\nI
    would give a little more space between the \"icon\" and the nameplate."
  created: '2009-08-11 14:20:52'
- author:
    name: Special-K
    picture: 117327
  body: "I like it too, but as said above, It will probably be cumbersome for studio
    signage. I didn't recognize it as polaroid at first, but as a Pantone chip. That
    may be just because the printing industry is my vocation.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/PantoneChipSymbolSet2_4309.jpg]\r\nIsn't
    Polaroid instamatic photography obsolete now? Is that a connection you want?"
  created: '2009-08-11 18:00:33'
- author:
    name: sandrosandro
    picture: 112363
  body: "In the end, as i see it, it comes to two frames - white one(that will be
    questionable for applying on white) then the grey one. \r\nSymbol inside that
    is trapped inside that grey frame, that can survive pretty on its own without
    one or two frames with decent wordmark. \r\n\r\nName set in Futura displaying
    the name is too tight spaced, and photography beneath too wide, thus creating
    not so pleasing contrast. Photography looks to light and zlatkogudasic to thick.
    So that tells that there is a problem with typesetting in the beggining, selection,
    coloring, composition, and proportions and spacing itself generating too much
    contrast and negative dynamics (note too tight set nameplate, and too light and
    wide spaced photography). "
  created: '2009-08-11 18:36:00'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: I'm looking at your sample photos again and I'm going to repeat what I said
    earlier. Your photography is great, and, from what I can tell, tends to have a
    serene and somewhat minimalistic vibe. I really think that should be carried into
    the logo. I'd spend some time doing some very simple text lock ups and see if
    something comes out of that.
  created: '2009-08-11 18:44:17'
- author:
    name: zlatko.gudasic
  body: "An update on progress. Since I have a web site and portfolio to finish first,
    I've decided that if I don't find something that would satisfy me, I'll give it
    a rest for a couple of weeks.\r\n\r\nYou'll be amused to know I've managed to
    get some unbelievable shapes combining z and g letters, including cow's portrait:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cow_wink_6382.jpg]\r\n\r\nOf
    all the concepts I came up with, I found only two worth considering. The first
    one you already saw. I've contacted author of type and he approved me using it
    in logo, which is a big plus. It's inspired by polaroid, but that doesn't mean
    it associates on it. I also have to say I don't agree with type weight critique,
    since I've experimented with all possible combinations, and this one seemed to
    do the trick (and it was deliberate juxtaposition). I've also tried printing it,
    and it's legible, and for web 100 and 200 px version seems fine too (without words).\r\n\r\nThere's
    also this other concepts, and tell me what you think about it:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/concepts_5623.jpg]"
  created: '2009-08-14 22:51:17'
- author:
    name: microspective
    picture: 111866
  body: "I think the bottom one (Trajan) would work excellently if the icon was \"kerned\"
    to complement the tracking of the type.\r\n\r\nYour persistence impresses me."
  created: '2009-08-16 06:38:09'
- author:
    name: zlatko.gudasic
  body: "I'd like your opinion on this logo. I'm attaching color, bw and small version.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/zg_logo_pantone_5500.gif]\r\n\r\nThanks"
  created: '2009-08-18 22:34:56'
- author:
    name: Lefty
    picture: 117342
  body: "i agree with microspective, i think the bottom row of your previous post
    is very promising and original and have much more personality than the other one.\r\nThe
    rounded box version make me think of a iPhone apps icon IMHO.\r\nBut i am also
    very impress by your persistantce, keep digging!! :)"
  created: '2009-08-18 22:51:28'
date: '2009-08-04 10:59:23'
title: Photography logo - directions and input appreciated

---
