---
author:
  name: ebensorkin
  picture: 109987
body: "Do you recall who first used italic set with roman*?\r\n\r\nWas it someone
  like Claude Lamesle, Claude Garamont, or Pierre Simon Fournier in the mid 16th C?\r\n\r\nWhat
  source do you have?\r\n\r\n*And by \"with\" I mean as emphasis or to illustrate
  semantic difference as opposed to being an alternative style of type.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I don't know who was the first to combine roman and italic in this way typographically,
    but the concept of using different type styles to indicate semantic or other kinds
    of textual distinction, like much else that we think of as typography, was exploited
    by scribes long before the dates you note. There's a nice example illustrated
    in JP Gumbert's brilliant essay \u2018\u201CTypography\u201D in the Manuscript
    Book\u2019 (<em>Journal of the Printing Historical Society</em> No.22 1993): a
    manuscript dictionary of difficult Latin words, with the words in uncial and the
    definitions in minuscule. It was written probably at Amiens c.800 AD.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-04 18:11:05'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "I doubt the typographic practice can be ascribed to Fournier, as his italic
    types do not harmonize well with the romans  -- different vertical proportions
    <em>(Nina, take note ;-) </em>\r\n\r\nI'll have to check my resources when I get
    a chance. Have you looked in Updike?\r\n\r\n-- K."
  created: '2009-08-04 18:42:18'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I'm probably going to get names wrong. Forgive me. \r\n\r\nI remember a small
    book, I want to say it was one of Aldus'. It used a roman cap at the beginning
    of each line and then the italic, Arrighi?, for the rest. "
  created: '2009-08-04 20:11:59'
- author:
    name: estienne
    picture: 111643
  body: The practice is usually credited to Robert Estienne the elder (c 1503-59),
    or at least it was when I was studying the history of letterforms back in the
    mid-1990s. See the biography of Estienne by Elizabeth Armstrong, who places the
    first usage with the 1532 edition of his French-Latin dictionary <em>La Maniere
    de tourner les verbes</em>, where the Latin is in roman type and the French in
    italic. (And, yes, he's the same 'Estienne' from whom I derive my user name...)
  created: '2009-08-04 20:54:13'
- author:
    name: Grrrben
    picture: 112992
  body: Eben, you might find some useful information in the dissertation I wrote two
    years ago, as it is all about italics. I guess the hard bound copy is still somewhere
    around at the department... or campus.
  created: '2009-08-04 21:55:20'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: FWIW Alan Bartram's <em>Typeforms, a History</em> (2007) says "it was Granjean
    at the end of the seventeenth century who first provided an italic conceived as
    a mate for the roman, when he cut his <em>romain du roi</em>." (p. 21)
  created: '2009-08-04 22:02:35'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Thanks Stephen ( estienne )! \r\n\r\nI suspect that Gerben's thesis is the
    gold mine that my pal is looking for. Thanks! \r\n\r\nApparently there is also
    an article on the subject in an article about it in the Journal of the PHS by
    Twyman. Thanks Gerard!\r\n\r\nAnd Paul Shaw has kindly reminded me that \"Harry
    Carter implies it was Simon de Colines and Christian Wechel c.1531 but it seems
    to have taken a decade or more for the combination to have become an accepted
    convention. See the supplemental section in his Early View of Typography at the
    back.\"\r\n\r\nFeel free to keep posting to the thread especially since there
    seem to be a few answers being offered.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-04 22:40:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Tiffany, I think the use you describe\u2014yes, it was Aldus\u2014would be
    what Eben would consider a merely stylistic use of roman and italic together,
    i.e. the two types do not signify different types of information or emphasis.\r\n____\r\n\r\nThe
    questions of who first set roman and italic together as Even describes and who
    first cut roman and italic types as harmonised type designs are separate. I'm
    not sure the second question is really answerable, since it depends on what you
    consider harmonised and on the perhaps unknown intent of the punchcutter or his
    customer."
  created: '2009-08-04 23:50:16'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "That is true. Disregard my contribution. :) \r\n\r\n(I love threads like
    this.)"
  created: '2009-08-05 00:01:06'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "John is right - setting a Cap in Roman isn't what I had in mind. And actually
    even setting a different language in italic vs roman, while it is a kind of limited
    indication of semantic difference, ( it is a broad kind of distinction in information
    types ) it isn't what I was getting at either. But setting setting quotes in italics
    or scientific names or titles etc is the far more fine grained distinction I was
    thinking of.\r\n\r\nJohn's second points are also quite good although I do think
    there are some more specific things you could make a case for. \r\n\r\nFor instance
    first example of an italic and a roman being marketed as a pair meant for each
    other in which case intent is stated - even if you disagree with the design choices
    they made.\r\n\r\nAs far as purely design based criteria I agree with John that
    putting forward a first example of an italic made for a roman might not be reliable,
    but if you acknowledge the subjectivity of the assertion it is not an unreasonable
    thing to do."
  created: '2009-08-05 10:22:39'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > For instance first example of an italic and a roman being marketed
    as a pair </cite>\r\n\r\nThis is potentially problematic. For most of the early
    period we're talking about, typefaces were identified by size name. Were all these
    \"marketed\" as companions or not?\r\n\r\nFor instance, picking just one random
    instance from Fournier (note: the italics are not named as such) -- Cic\xE9ro
    po\xE9tique; Cic\xE9ro po\xE9tique [italic]; Cic\xE9ro, petit \u0153il; Cic\xE9ro
    serr\xE9; Cic\xE9ro ordinaire; Cic\xE9ro, \u0153il moyen; Cic\xE9ro, gros \u0153il;
    Cic\xE9ro ordinaire [italic]; Cic\xE9ro, gros \u0153il, dans le go\xFBt Hollandois;
    and Cic\xE9ro, gros \u0153il [italic]. Each presented on a separate page. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-05 12:59:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: ".\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-08-05 19:44:34'
- author:
    name: frodrigues
  body: 'I think Stanley Morrison mentions this somewhere on his Tally of Types. He
    credits it to Granjon if I''m not mistaken. I''ve just shipped my type books,
    but if someone has a copy I think this is mentioned on the chapter about the Granjon
    Italic. I could be wrong tho. Sorry, this isn''t very helpfull.   '
  created: '2009-08-05 20:39:22'
- author:
    name: Peter Van Lancker
  body: Using roman for Latin and italic for French is maybe not too good an exemple
    of combining roman with italic as we see it, as roman was typically used for Latin
    also before printing existed, and italic seems to have been typical for French
    like fractura for German at some period in history. http://www.flickr.com/photos/petervanlancker/1777886082/
  created: '2009-08-05 20:41:51'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Morison's chapter on Granjon Italic does indeed contain a lot of pertinent
    information. Too much to try to summarize. I'm sure Eben can get his hands on
    a copy of <cite>Tally of Types</cite>.\r\n\r\nMorison doesn't ascribe the first
    practice to any particular printer or founder, but narrows the date & location
    down to the middle 16th century (prior to 1590) in Paris. \r\n\r\nA note in my
    1973 edition (added by Brooke Crutchley, not Morison) says \"According to Harry
    Carter, the need to mate roman and italic was first recognized by Fran\xE7ois
    Guyot in the 1540s. (<cite>A View of Early Typography</cite>, Oxford, 1969)\""
  created: '2009-08-05 21:15:38'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: "Check this joint:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/24829\r\n\r\nHamilton,
    Frederick W. (Frederick William), 1860-1940\r\nTitle\tThe Uses of Italic\r\nA
    Primer of Information Regarding the Origin and Uses of Italic Letters\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-06 10:37:50'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I should probably reiterate that I made this thread for a pal of mine who
    got curious about this question. I think it is a lovely question but it isn't,
    strictly speaking, mine.
  created: '2009-08-06 12:59:10'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: "Yeah, quite understand, I also have a <cite>\"friend\"</cite> who wants to
    know more about <cite>\"italics\"</cite>.\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-06 15:00:05'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Eben, you must be aware that enquiries made on friends' behalf are always
    treated with suspicion :)
  created: '2009-08-06 15:23:19'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I suppose that being suspicious depends very much on the idea that not knowing
    the answer is somehow a sign of weakness vs. seeing it as sign of a virtue - in
    this case of healthy thoughtful curiosity. So if I was misleading you was I shirking
    the blame or not taking the glory? I can't think it is that important either way...  :-P
  created: '2009-08-07 18:19:23'
- author:
    name: typogirl43
    picture: 117780
  body: "Hi. I think it was printer Aldus Manutius (Aldine PRess) who printed the
    first italic type, created by Francisco Giffo in the book \"Virgils Opera\" in
    \ 1501. It was based on the \"can-cellersca\" handwriting done by italian scribes
    at the time. Humanist in origin.\r\n\r\nThere was also a desiner Robert Granjon
    (french 1540ish) who created an italic script called \"Characters of Civility\"
    (characters de civilite) and this was published in a book entitled \"The first
    fabulous book of stories\" but was not a success because it was difficult to read.
    Granjon was inspired by Claude Garamond, who was the first punchcutter to work
    independently of a printer. :)[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Vergils_Opera_6489.jpg]"
  created: '2009-08-09 03:34:31'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "...[<em>civilit\xE9</em>] <em>was not a success because it was difficult
    to read.</em>\r\n\r\nSays who? Civilit\xE9 types enjoyed popularity in France
    and the Netherlands, and even found use in England. Apart from Granjon's original
    civilit\xE9 types \u2014 which were cut in a wide range of sizes, a fact that
    speaks to their popularity \u2014, types in this style were cut by at least seven
    other known punchcutters, and there are numerous anonymous examples. Harry Carter
    and HDL Vervliet's standard monograph, <em>Civilit\xE9 Types,</em> catalogues
    33 different civilit\xE9 types, the first of which is Granjon's mediane of 1557
    and the last of which is a copy of Breton's gros romain (original c.1570) cut
    in 1811. Most of these 33 types were cut between 1557 and 1601. Granjon's last
    civilit\xE9 was cut in 1587, so that's a 30 year period in which he found enough
    success with these designs to make them commercially viable.\r\n\r\nIn cutting
    types in the civilit\xE9 style, Granjon was simply doing what Gutenberg, Aldus
    and others had done before him: implementing typographically the popular writing
    style of his day. Civilit\xE9 types fell out of fashion in the 17th Century during
    the same period that civilit\xE9 writing fell out of fashion and split-nib styles
    became popular."
  created: '2009-08-09 04:03:29'
- author:
    name: typogirl43
    picture: 117780
  body: 'Wow. This was my first ever post on a blog. Just wanted to have some fun.
    Thanks for sharing your considerable knowledge on this fact. '
  created: '2009-08-09 22:13:32'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Welcome to Typophile Alexis!\r\n\r\nI have to admit to have become a big
    fan of Civilit\xE9 too. Civilit\xE9 is special I think because as type designer
    you are going to fall in love with it eventually - or so it seems to me. \r\n\r\nAnd
    you may even design one because you love it so much.\r\n\r\n But then the rest
    of the world ends up not seeing what you see - and having the \" it is difficult
    to read attitude\" and lo and behold - you don't sell many of that type design.
    Perhaps this is very wrong but it is how it looks to me at the moment.\r\n\r\nBTW
    - I intend to ask James Mosley about the primary question of this thread as I
    think his outlook is likely to be the best informed."
  created: '2009-08-09 22:59:25'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Welcome, Alexis. Sorry to pound you over the head re. civilit\xE9: it's a
    sensitive subject for me, due to things that have nothing to do with this thread.\r\n\r\nCivilit\xE9
    is one of those styles that looks like an oddity in the history of typography,
    but is so clearly not an oddity in the history of writing. So what does this tell
    us about the history of typography?"
  created: '2009-08-10 03:45:46'
- author:
    name: Peter Van Lancker
  body: "Civilit\xE9 was like bastarda a cursive gothic style and a competitor to
    italics for printing popular language. Roman within civilit\xE9 was used to quote
    titles, or used for titling or incipit above civilit\xE9 texts. Is was shortly
    used in France and Belgium, though roman and italic became popular there rather
    early. Difficult to say why it was given up: my guess is that people just found
    it too ugly."
  created: '2009-08-10 07:16:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Difficult to say why it was given up: my guess is that people just found
    it too ugly.</em>\r\n\r\nThere's no need to guess: just look what happened to
    writing during the 17th century. The broad nib pen and all the writing styles
    associated with it gradually fell out of fashion, to be replaced by split nib
    styles."
  created: '2009-08-11 15:10:47'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Now there's an interesting exploration -- what would Civilit\xE9 look like
    if the form structure had made the transition into a flexible split-nib paradigm?"
  created: '2009-08-11 22:17:22'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "*runs off to register the trademark for \"Bodonit\xE9\"*"
  created: '2009-08-11 23:01:08'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Rats, that leaves me with the amusingly diacritic'd Dido\xEFt\xE9."
  created: '2009-08-12 02:27:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Quick register it before you get a Civil suit :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-08-12 02:44:38'
- author:
    name: Peter Van Lancker
  body: But why did they change pens?
  created: '2009-08-14 09:01:31'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John, I think the theory that Civilit\xE9 was given up because of the change
    in pen styles has problems. Italic was also based on the broad pen, and survived.
    Old style roman was based on the broad pen and lasted until the late 18th century,
    and was then revived and become dominant again at the end of the 19th century,
    at least in English speaking countries. \r\n\r\nWhile I was spectacularly wrong
    in an earlier thread in underestimating the influence of the pointed pen on Baskerville,
    I don't think \"pen determinism\"--not that you have advocated it--can explain
    the history either. \r\n\r\nPeter's question on *why* they changed pens is a good
    one. "
  created: '2009-08-14 14:59:14'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Bill, could it be that italic per see had passed safely into the realm of
    type, Civilit\xE9 was the actual written hand of the moment, and that as fashion
    changed so did the need to simulate Civilit\xE9? When I see written documents
    from the time in question - not that I have done a big study - what I noticed
    was that english round hand using a split nib did seem to simply sweep the boards.
    It is an amazing thing. What I am getting at is not that there were no people
    writing in italic - that would be silly. But just that it was not the common hand
    of the day anymore at all, and that Civilit\xE9 as a written form suffered the
    same fate. If you follow what James Mosley says you will find that Cresci seems
    to have something to do with this. Check it out.\r\n\r\nIn any event, this is
    very off the cuff thinking - my apologies for that."
  created: '2009-08-14 16:22:01'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>John, I think the theory that Civilit\xE9 was given up because
    of the change in pen styles has problems. Italic was also based on the broad pen,
    and survived.</em>\r\n\r\nItalic is just what you get if you write quickly: your
    letters start to slant and they become horizontally compressed. The roman/italic
    distinction is just the same formal/informal distinction that you get in pretty
    much any advanced manuscript culture. Since the split nib lent itself particularly
    well to running hands (you can control the thickness of the inter-letter connections
    independently of letter strokes, regardless of direction; so, for instance, the
    connecting stroke coming off the top of an o can be the same thickness as a connecting
    stroke coming up from the bottom of an i, which is not possible with a translation
    broad nib connection), it was a natural tool to influence a new kind of \u2018italic\u2019.\r\n\r\nTypographically,
    this seems to me a key observation that almost everyone has failed to make: the
    written models of the Fournier, Baskerville, Didot and Bodoni italics precede
    the <em>models</em> of their roman types by more than half a century, and precede
    the cutting of e.g. Baskerville's types by more than a century. We're used to
    the idea of romans preceding italics, because that is the sequence in which they
    were developed <em>as type</em> in the renaissance. But there's nothing in the
    manuscript tradition to say that a formal letter always precedes a less formal
    or more cursive one.\r\n\r\nIn Barbedor's Paris writing exemplar of 1647, there
    is a fully realised unconnected and serif'd italic written with a split nib. It
    isn't until 1695 that we see the first printed engraving of an crudely attempted
    corresponding Roman -- by John Seddon, whom I believe is probably due credit as
    the inventor of the style --, and another few years before George Shelley perfects
    it.\r\n\r\nNow, you go find yourself a split nib pen and try to write civilit\xE9
    with it.\r\n\r\nPeter: <em>But why did they change pens?</em>\r\n\r\nThey liked
    the new shapes they could make.\r\n\r\nThe split nib pen requires more skill than
    the broad nib, but it is much more flexible -- literally and figuratively -- and
    you can create much more varied and dynamic shapes. The calligrapher <a href=\"http://www.paulantonioscribe.com/\">Paul
    Antonio</a>, who is a modern master of the split nib, ably demonstrated its capabilities
    at the St Bride conference earlier this year. Its relative difficulty, of course,
    inspires virtuosity, which is one reason why penmanship became so greatly admired
    in the later 17th and 18th Centuries (the other reason being that engraving made
    it possible to reproduce these letterforms in print, leading to the popularity
    of writing manuals and exemplars such as Bickham's <em>Universal Penman,</em>
    only the grandest of a long line of such books)."
  created: '2009-08-15 01:10:28'
- author:
    name: Peter Van Lancker
  body: Some type seems to show split pen caracteristics as early as 1539?
  created: '2009-08-15 06:53:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Of which types are you thinking? The split nib originated in the 16th Century,
    and was popularised by Cresci, but that is later in the century.\r\n\r\nIt is
    interesting to put the timelines of typographic styles and writing styles from
    1470 to 1870 side-by-side, and to realise that at either end of the period there
    is about a hundred years in which the styles reflect each other, in terms of stroke
    construction. But in the middle there is a period of two hundred years in which
    they increasingly diverge. Granjon's civilit\xE9 represents an attempt to accommodate
    the popular writing style of the day within the expanding typographic canon. But
    it isn't until the mid-18th Century that Baskerville and others bring type and
    writing back into alignment again by making types based on an expansion stroke
    construction."
  created: '2009-08-15 20:00:40'
- author:
    name: Peter Van Lancker
  body: "http://www.petervanlancker.com/index.php?eId=87\r\nSorry."
  created: '2009-08-15 21:10:41'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: The Lambrecht italic is certainly interesting, but I'm not convinced that
    it shows influence of the split nib, the most characteristic aspect of which is
    the dynamic transition of thin and thick strokes made possible by the expansion
    stroke model. Of course, in a type this size, it's hard to tell exactly what is
    happening at the stroke level, because the stroke contrast is necessarily reduced
    in order to maintain legibility (and admirably achieved, I think, based on the
    reproduction in Vervliet; thanks for bringing this to my attention). Are there
    any shapes in this type that couldn't be made with a broad nib, allowing for rotation
    as well as translation and also, of course, for an idiosyncratic punchcutter.
  created: '2009-08-16 00:01:04'
- author:
    name: Peter Van Lancker
  body: "I had it scanned myself, at Gent University, in high resolution, in two different
    copies of the same booklet \u2026 I think particulary the way the n or r are constructed
    is hard to explain as an imitation of a broad nip pen. Furthermore, Lambrecht
    himself stated that his roman (sic) exceded all bastard letters in cleanness,
    so he pretended to make his own typefaces it for aesthetic reasons.\r\n\r\nI would
    not consider Lambrecht \"idiosyncratic\": he was the last of a family of seal
    makers, so learned how to cut punches from his father, etc. I also found an upright
    italic carving on a grave nearby, some decades younger \u2026\r\n\r\nI think we
    are way out of topic. Sorry Eben."
  created: '2009-08-16 07:19:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "What seems to me to be happening in the Lambrecht <em>r</em> and <em>n</em>
    is simply a stroke direction reversal forming a stem as closed loop. This is very
    much consistent with a broad nib, and actually very uncharacteristic of a split
    nib, in which reversals are usually sudden and not looped. A similar loop stem
    construction is seen in Fred Smeijers' Renard italic.\r\n\r\nI played around with
    a broad nib this afternoon, and it is possible to very easily make forms similar
    to the Lambrecht italic."
  created: '2009-08-16 22:29:47'
- author:
    name: Peter Van Lancker
  body: 'Thank you. '
  created: '2009-08-17 07:08:18'
- author:
    name: Peter Van Lancker
  body: "As you guys seem to have some ideas on Civilit\xE9, would you consider French
    \"Rondo\" as an offspring of it?"
  created: '2009-10-05 08:24:40'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I think there is a kind of relationship, but it is one of underlying technique:
    if you can write civilit\xE9 you have a good portion of the techniques you need
    to write rondo.\r\n\r\nA parallel would be the development of the techniques necessary
    to build Gothic cathedrals in the late Romanesque period: everything you need
    for the radical new style is technically present in the the old style, but it
    is the application of these techniques in a new way that defines the new style."
  created: '2009-10-05 18:43:37'
- author:
    name: Peter Van Lancker
  body: "Thank you again.\r\n\r\nFound a rondo writing instruction dating from the
    late 1960.\r\n\r\nOn the other end, De Vechter, one of Plantin's foremen, attributes
    a civilit\xE9 to Lambrecht (though I never found one in Lambrecht's printing."
  created: '2009-10-06 09:43:34'
date: '2009-08-04 14:15:35'
node_type: forum
title: First use of italic with roman?

---
