---
author:
  name: bendy
  picture: 112931
body: "Hello Typophiles!\r\nQuick question about using asterisk...here is my sentence:\r\n\r\n\"In
  fact in the UK, coaching has already taken off in more than 70% of organisations*,
  inspiring staff to think creatively and know how to take action.\"\r\n\r\nUnfortunately
  when laying out I get a bigger gap between the asterisk and comma than between the
  comma and the next word. Should I just manually kern the comma closer to the asterisk?
  Or does the comma go before the asterisk?"
comments:
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Kern your example in the order you have it - that is the correct structure.
    The reason is that the asterisk belongs to the word.
  created: '2009-08-06 12:53:09'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: Kern the comma under the asterisk. Not so much as to be directly under. Use
    your eye.
  created: '2009-08-06 12:59:19'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Yay, the same as I was thinking! Thanks guys :)
  created: '2009-08-06 13:12:46'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>Kern your example in the order you have it - that is the correct structure.
    The reason is that the asterisk belongs to the word.\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\n?? I suppose
    this is an editorial issue, but I would assume the asterisk signals a footnote.
    If the footnote was about \"organizations\" only, such as the meaning or history
    of the word, then yes, the asterisk belongs with the word. On the other hand,
    if the note applies more to the whole phrase, (in the States at any rate,) it
    would fall after the comma. In that case, you'll probably have to kern the comma-asterisk."
  created: '2009-08-06 13:34:11'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I'm not a typographer but I deal with footnotes all the time, and the references
    go after the punctuation in the styles I usually encounter and use (like, I believe,
    the Chicago Manual of Style). \r\n\r\n(Of course, they may \"drive on the other
    side of the road\" in Bendy's world! ;-) )\r\n\r\nEdit: from Chicago Manual of
    Style online site:\r\n<em><strong>Q.</strong> It\u2019s probably in the book somewhere,
    but I cannot find it. Can you tell me the preferred way to place an asterisk when
    it appears adjacent to a period, or any other punctuation (especially colon and
    comma)? Inside or outside the punctuation mark? Thanks.\r\n\r\n<strong>A.</strong>
    Please see CMOS 16.30, which would apply to note symbols as well as note numbers:
    \u201CA note number should be placed at the end of a sentence or at the end of
    a clause. The number follows any punctuation mark except for the dash, which it
    precedes. It follows a closing parenthesis.\u201D</em>"
  created: '2009-08-06 13:45:23'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "The asterisk belongs to the phrase before the comma, as that was the conclusion
    of the survey mentioned in the footnote. The part after the comma is a description
    of how coaching works, and I wrote the copy (not from any particular reference
    point). Therefore I'm inclined to have the asterisk on the left of the comma.
    \r\n\r\nIf I split into 2 sentences would the asterisk go on the right of the
    full stop effectively appearing in the wrong sentence?\r\n\r\nBut hey, I'm glad
    the answer isn't straightforward! ;)"
  created: '2009-08-06 14:34:02'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: From my point of view, the comma/period is not the dividing line between sentences,
    it's a last part of the preceding clause/sentence. The next clause/sentence doesn't
    start there, but rather with the next word.
  created: '2009-08-06 14:48:44'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I agree with Charles FWIW,* and by the way\u2026\r\n\r\n(* Meaning, I would
    now explain why I agree with Charles.)\r\n\r\n------\r\n\r\nI agree with Charles
    FWIW*, and by the way\u2026\r\n\r\n(* I would now explain that \"FWIW\" means
    \"For What It's Worth\".)\r\n\r\n------\r\n\r\nThat's how I learned it. Kern to
    taste. :-)"
  created: '2009-08-07 00:32:57'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: I think it really is up to the author/editor and not the designer. Also, we
    might have found anoher example of the trans-atlantic chasm.
  created: '2009-08-07 00:51:29'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Arh. I can see the logic of having the asterisk after the comma; however
    I've never seen it that way and it looks a bit odd. I'll experiment. \r\n\r\nI'll
    also build asterisk/comma* and comma*/asterisk kerning into any fonts I design,
    that seems quite an important omission. \r\n\r\n*Plus other punctuation of course."
  created: '2009-08-07 09:53:14'
- author:
    name: leszczuk
  body: 'British practice is to set the asterisk after the comma. From <em>The Oxford
    Guide to Style</em> (OUP 2002): "Place in-text footnote cues outside punctuation,
    but inside the closing parenthesis when refering solely to matter within the parenthesis."'
  created: '2009-08-10 11:13:20'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'There is a reference to this question in the new Jost Hochuli book "Designing
    Books: Practice and Theory" if I am not mistaken. I''ll have a look. '
  created: '2009-08-10 11:39:51'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "@Eben: \xA91996 is \"new\"?! You've been studying too much Jenson ;-) \r\n\r\nUnfortunately,
    because the book does not have a subject index, it's hard to say whether it addresses
    this particular question or not.\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-10 13:18:06'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Maybe Eben is thinking of <em>Detail in typography</em>. :-)
  created: '2009-08-10 16:08:05'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Just to ge back on track . . .\r\n\r\n<cite>I\u2019ll also build asterisk/comma*
    and comma*/asterisk kerning into any fonts I design, that seems quite an important
    omission.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>*Plus other punctuation of course.</cite>\r\n\r\nNot
    to burst any bubbles, but don't forget the dagger and double dagger. Also don't
    forget the size. We have always set the size of the call the same as the size
    of the note. That is, if the text is 10-point and the footnote 8-point, we use
    an 8-point asterisk (dagger, whatever) in the text as a call. And so, it becomes
    a matter for comps, not designers.\r\n\r\nMore bubbles: the usual way of calling
    notes is with a figure. The number of fonts that have figures suitable for note
    calls approaches zero. For note calls, you need a set of superiors, 0-9. They
    need to be named something like zero.super, and be unencoded -- they are not scientific
    or mathematical superscripts. They usually need to be a bit smaller than numerators/denominators,
    and need to position to top align with the top of a lower-case letter with an
    ascender, which should match --pretty closely -- quotes and parenright, else a
    sequence such as\r\n\r\n(My pal\")^note_number \r\n\r\nwill make you a bit seasick.\r\n\r\nThey
    need to be properly kerned with each other. They also need to be kerned with quotes,
    periods, commas, exclamation points, question marks, and brackets. Usual lower-case
    letters to check are c,f,f_f,g,i,j,q,r,s,t,v,w,x, and y. A few other things, too,
    but if the basic ones are good, the comp can do the rest by hand without losing
    too much time.\r\n\r\nFWIW"
  created: '2009-08-11 03:57:19'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: 'Thank you, Charles. Good to get more detail from the comp side. '
  created: '2009-08-11 10:39:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>They need to be named something like zero.super, and be unencoded \u2014
    they are not scientific or mathematical superscripts.</em>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ModSups_5753.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
    went through that rigamarole with the Modern Suite, but please explain what's
    so terrible about having coded superiors, in practicality rather than principle.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-11 16:10:05'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>please explain what\u2019s so terrible about having coded superiors,
    in practicality rather than principle.</cite>\r\n\r\nWell, it depends. The publishing
    world is all agog today about ebooks, repurposed files, etc. If you assume the
    print product is the first product, and those files (PDF, XML, whatever) will
    be worked over by experienced people for other purposes, then I suppose the only
    potential downside is the cost. Part of the rub is no one knows for sure just
    what files people will start with for \"product 2.\" There is also some movement
    toward round-tripping XML with the first (print) version, but I'd not bet the
    ranch that will become popular.\r\n\r\nWhile no one knows for sure what the new
    workflows will eventually be, where I come down on all this is that it is unkind
    to lie about character names or encodings.  \"Looks OK in print\" with one particular
    font & encoding is potentially a mess in the making."
  created: '2009-08-12 11:55:42'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "charles_e said:\r\n>   The publishing world is all agog today about ebooks,
    repurposed files, etc. \r\n>   If you assume the print product is the first product,
    and those files (PDF, XML, \r\n>   whatever) will be worked over by experienced
    people for other purposes\r\n\r\num, i think it would be silly to assume the _first_
    product is _print_...\r\n\r\nmuch stuff -- perhaps the vast majority -- will never
    get printed at all\r\nin the world of the future.\r\n\r\nand when something _is_
    printed, it will be as an afterthought -- or as\r\na _byproduct_ -- with the primary
    version being the one up on the web.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   Part of the rub is no one
    knows for sure just what files people will \r\n>   start with for \u201Cproduct
    2.\u201D \r\n\r\ni can see your confusion, because you've started with \".xml
    and .pdf\"\r\nas the initial formats for your print product.  but if you start
    with a\r\nplain-text unicode file, and generate all versions from that \"master\",\r\nyou
    might be able to discern that the workflow can be quite simple...\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  There is also some movement toward round-tripping XML with the \r\n>   first
    (print) version, but I\u2019d not bet the ranch that will become popular.\r\n\r\nand
    that's what makes a horse-race, a good old difference of opinion,\r\nbecause i
    _would_ bet that round-tripping (albeit not .xml) will become\r\nnot just \"popular\",
    but a required and ultimately \"intuitive\" part of it all,\r\nstemming from that
    light-markup unicode file.  look at it from my view:\r\nif a particular workflow
    gives you a \"round-tripping\" capability, is there\r\nany reason why you wouldn't
    make use of it?  that is, if the output you\r\ncopied out of a .pdf were able
    to be automatically reformatted such that\r\nit could create an identical .pdf,
    wouldn't that be extremely valuable to us?\r\n(try reformatting the text you copy
    out of a .pdf today, using most tools,\r\nto grasp firmly how far we fall presently
    from that round-tripping ideal.)\r\n\r\nof course, given the sheer impossibility
    of that workflow using our current\r\ntool-chain (e.g., indesign, heavy markup),
    you might think that's fantasy...\r\nbut i assure you that it really isn't all
    that difficult...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-12 20:47:01'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Bowerbird:\r\n\r\nThere is another forum I participate on that lets you put
    someone on an \"ignore list\" -- You don't see what they write.\r\n\r\nWouldn't
    it be nice . . . you and I would never see what the other said."
  created: '2009-08-12 21:28:01'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Amen. I mean, tracking.
  created: '2009-08-13 00:44:02'
- author:
    name: qu1j0t3
    picture: 109648
  body: 'Such complicated answers! Here is how I approach this. First ask, "Should
    the asterisk disturb the relationship of the word and the comma?" -- Answer: No.
    Therefore simply set the comma after the word as normal, then set the asterisk,
    then resize and kern the asterisk (which has a separate and distinct relation
    to the word).'
  created: '2009-08-13 04:22:47'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "charles_e said:\r\n>   Wouldn\u2019t it be nice . . . you and I would never
    see what the other said.\r\n\r\nwhy would i want to stick my head in the sand,
    and not see what you said?\r\n\r\ni believe that a workflow that enables \"round-tripping\"
    would be great...\r\n(as that kind of workflow facilitates \"remixing\", which
    is very important.)\r\n\r\nso i thought what you said was interesting, and even
    _more_ so because\r\nyou have fallen into the kind of trap that _many_ people
    fall into nowadays,\r\none where you assume x.m.l. is the way to proceed, and
    .pdf is worthwhile.\r\n\r\nand that approach is never going to give us a round-tripping
    capability...\r\n\r\nso i took the opportunity to present you with a window of
    opportunity to\r\nengage in a discussion -- if you would like -- but it appears
    you do not...\r\n\r\nfine.\r\n\r\nperhaps someone else will have their curiosity
    stimulated...  perhaps not...\r\n\r\neither way, i'm not going to let the groupthink
    go unchallenged.  i'm sorry\r\nif that disturbs you.  in the meantime, however,
    i think it should be simple\r\nfor you to ignore my posts if you want to, as they
    are easily recognized,\r\nsince i eschew capital letters and introduce hard linebreaks
    at my pleasure.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-13 10:42:32'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>and that approach is never going to give us a round-tripping capability...</cite>
    Actually, it already does, already has.\r\n\r\nBut my general problem with all
    your posts that I have read, and I'll state up front that I don't read many and
    don't read them carefully, is they seem to take the following form:\r\n\r\n\"Fusion
    is the only long-term viable source of power. Anything else is a waste of time,
    because ultimately it won't serve our needs. We need to stop spending research
    money on how to remove/store \"carbon.\" Etc.\"\r\n\r\n(BTW, I happen to agree
    with the positive elements of the above.) \r\n\r\nIf that's unfair, so be it.
    That's how your posts strike me. \r\n\r\nI don't argue politics or religion, not
    because the subjects aren't interesting, but because I have never seen anyone's
    mind changed. All most people in such discussions are doing is looking for new
    arguments to bolster their own position. Anything else is rebutted or deflected.
    As time passes, the issues are ignored, and the new arguments either slip into
    minutia or assume an unspoken premise the other party doesn't accept.\r\n\r\nAnd
    that, my friend, is boring."
  created: '2009-08-13 12:58:07'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "charles_e said:\r\n>   my general problem with all your posts \r\n>   that
    I have read, and I\u2019ll state up front that \r\n>   I don\u2019t read many
    and don\u2019t read them carefully, \r\n>   is they seem to take the following
    form:\r\n\r\ni suppose nobody would blame me for ignoring how you\r\ncharacterize
    my posts, since you admit right \"up front\"\r\nthat you \"don't read many\",
    and \"don't read them carefully\".\r\n\r\ni mean, with those admissions, you hardly
    have credibility.\r\n\r\nbut, as i've said before, i don't like to willfully ignore
    stuff.\r\n\r\nstill, even with the administration of several grains of salt,\r\ni
    don't know if i truly understand your characterization, and\r\n-- to the extent
    that i do -- i would largely disagree with it.\r\n\r\nplus, even if there was
    some very small aspect of truth in it,\r\ni'm not sure what your objection to
    that small truth would be.\r\n\r\nlet me rewrite what you said in terms of the
    topic at hand:\r\n>   light-markup and remixable text is the only long-term\r\n>
    \  viable source of archival text.  anything else is a waste\r\n>   of time, because
    it won't serve our needs.  we need to\r\n>   stop spending research money on other
    archival forms.\r\n\r\ni believe the first of those three sentences is absolutely
    true.\r\n\r\nfurther, i think the second follows fairly closely from the first.\r\n(although
    there's certainly all kinds of wiggle-room there, eh?,\r\nbecause short-term needs
    often conflict with long-term stuff,\r\nbut let's dance around that little complication,
    ok?)\r\n\r\nbut that doesn't mean i would necessarily agree with the third;\r\nwe
    do research so as to test things so we will learn new stuff.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   If
    that\u2019s unfair, so be it. That\u2019s how your posts strike me.\r\n\r\nit's
    not that it's \"unfair\".  it's that it is _inaccurate_.  but perhaps\r\nyou don't
    care if your assessment is inaccurate, as you're going to\r\nassert it anyway.
    \ because, after all, if you cared about its accuracy,\r\nyou would do a better
    job of reading all of my posts, and carefully.\r\n\r\nbut, as you've said, you
    would rather just avoid seeing them at all.\r\n\r\nfine.  i don't give a damn
    if you read my posts or not.\r\n\r\nbut it strikes me as somewhat curious that
    you're willing to go\r\n\"on the record\" in such a public manner based on partial
    info,\r\nwith an attitude that's so callous it does not care if it's \"unfair\".\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  I don\u2019t argue politics or religion, \r\n>   not because the subjects aren\u2019t
    interesting, \r\n>   but because I have never seen anyone\u2019s mind changed.\r\n\r\nthis
    is disingenuous, and not just slightly so, but to the extreme.\r\n\r\nyou're the
    one who opened up the topic of \"round-tripping\",\r\nand i've done some research
    on that topic, so i engaged you\r\nin a \"window of opportunity for discussion\".
    \ discussion, charles.\r\n\r\nand i'm not necessarily looking to change _your_
    mind_, or _mine_,\r\nor anyone else's, but that's always a possibility with _discussion_...\r\n\r\nlike
    i said, i've done some research on the topic, so i can provide\r\nsome _actual_evidence_
    in favor of the things that i would say, so\r\nthis is _hardly_ a matter of \"politics
    or religion\".  i've got solid data.\r\ni'm certainly not asking anyone to take
    anything on \"faith\".  no sir...\r\n\r\nbut you don't want to see any data, do
    you?  you don't want to even\r\n_discuss_ the matter.  you just wish you could
    make all my messages\r\nbecome _invisible_.  you would like them to disappear
    into the ether.\r\ni'm sorry, charles, but i don't have a lot of _respect_ for
    that position.\r\n\r\nyou said:\r\n>   Actually, it already does, already has.\r\n\r\nok,
    fine, let's see your data in support of that assertion.\r\n\r\nshow us where an
    x.m.l.-based workflow outputting to .pdf has\r\ngiven us a round-tripping capability.
    \ i would love to see that...\r\n\r\nor do you just want us to believe what you
    say, to take it on faith?\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-13 20:57:33'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: (yawn)
  created: '2009-08-13 20:58:37'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: http://www.tei-c.org/Activities/SIG/Publishing/
  created: '2009-08-13 21:07:32'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "charles_e said:\r\n>   http://www.tei-c.org/Activities/SIG/Publishing/\r\n\r\noh
    please.  don't be ridiculous and stupid.\r\n\r\nthat is the _worst_ kind of combination\r\nof
    politics and religion and technology.\r\n\r\nhere is what \"round-tripping\" means:\r\nthere
    is a rough equivalence between\r\nthe input that creates a viewable-format\r\nand
    the output copied out of that format.\r\n\r\nso if you're gonna use .tei to create
    a .pdf,\r\nthen you need to get .tei _out_ of the .pdf,\r\nwhich can be used to
    create an identical .pdf.\r\n\r\nlet's see you do _that_, charles.  let's see
    you.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-13 22:59:40'
date: '2009-08-06 11:13:31'
title: Asterisk and comma

---
