---
author:
  name: fredcastle
body: "any ideas?  looks stretched, but I don't think it is?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/032c_15_content_5786.jpg]"
comments:
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "It is, for sure.\r\nDoesn\u2019t it look much more natural like this?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/0815_4231.jpg]\r\n\r\nLooks
    like Helvetica."
  created: '2009-08-07 22:18:24'
- author:
    name: fredcastle
  body: "I've seen it a few times like that lately.\r\n\r\nGuess its a new thing.
    \ or maybe someone out there made a stretched helvetica typeface?\r\n\r\nYou guys
    hate it?"
  created: '2009-08-07 22:21:00'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: You like it?
  created: '2009-08-07 22:23:51'
- author:
    name: fredcastle
  body: I think its interesting.
  created: '2009-08-07 22:43:02'
- author:
    name: paulstonier
    picture: 114324
  body: It's more of a thing that happens when a person that doesn't know anything
    about design, does design. Microsoft Word and several other programs just make
    it very easy to do it to fit a space. It hurts my eyes.
  created: '2009-08-07 23:09:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "There is nothing wrong with designing a reverse stress sans and doing the
    hard work to make it good. There is something wrong if you don't do any more work
    than vertically stretch some bundled type and create an ugly piece of camel dung
    though.\r\n\r\nSmells to me like Lawrence of Arabia travelled his entourage by
    that piece above recently.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-08-07 23:27:47'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "I suggest the guillotine for the \"designer\" : )\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-08-07 23:29:29'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: Yeah, a very tall and narrow one.
  created: '2009-08-07 23:41:10'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Jos\r\n\r\nHow is Calluna doing... now that we are taking a breather from
    frying the purveyor of scum type?\r\n\r\nNot you Fred!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-08-07 23:54:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I suggest the guillotine for the \u201Cdesigner\u201D '\r\n\r\nActually,
    it would be more appropriate to have his neck stretched on a gallows :-).\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-08-08 01:57:17'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "<cite>How is Calluna doing...</cite>\r\n\r\nThe positive responses are still
    overwhelming me every day. Of course I did hope for people to embrace Calluna,
    but for a fairly classical looking text typeface I didn't expect this. As for
    sales... it's selling well enough, but not like Museo (Sans). However the regular
    has already been downloaded lots of times from MyFonts and you never know how
    many people will come back for an italic or a bold :)"
  created: '2009-08-08 08:58:10'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "So you demand capital punishment for <a href=\"http://www.meireundmeire.de/projects/project/032c-1/event.html\">Mike
    Meir\xE9</a>?\r\nThe International Herald Tribune, in contrast, thought <a href=\"http://www.032c.de/\">this
    work</a> was worth being awarded the \u2018Best Magazine of the World\u2019 in
    2007. Bit of a stretch? This is was Meir\xE9 thinks about it:\r\n\r\n\u201CIf
    every magazine or every building or every brand or everybody tries to look appealing
    by using the same idea of being modern, it becomes interesting to go in the opposite
    direction, because life has different kinds of beauty to present. If people feel
    confused by it, it is because we are all so used to this kind of efficient, streamlined,
    correctness.\u201D\r\n\u201CI am always interested in the concept of evolution
    = harmony/break/harmony \u2026\u201D\r\n\r\nYou can read more about <a href=\"http://www.creativereview.co.uk/cr-blog/2007/august/the-provocative-mr-meire\">The
    Provocative Mr Meir\xE9</a> and <a href=\"http://www.creativereview.co.uk/cr-blog/2007/august/the-new-ugly\">The
    New Ugly</a> on Creative Review.\r\nF"
  created: '2009-08-08 11:00:30'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "Yer. Ugly can be interesting. And a little change in direction against the
    mainstream can be necessary now and then. But this kind of <em>provocation</em>
    merely reminds me of the early days of desktop publishing when having a mac with
    pagemaker made you a designer. Kings and Queens have been taken to the chopping
    block. Why not capital punishment for Mike Meir\xE9?"
  created: '2009-08-08 12:19:15'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: Or lower case punishment.
  created: '2009-08-08 12:52:13'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Jos\r\n\r\nWould that mean cutting him off at the knees thereby adjusting
    HIS x-height : )\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-08-08 19:31:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Making him fit lower on the body? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-08-08 20:40:08'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: LOL, guys!
  created: '2009-08-08 21:02:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: If you want ugly, you can find it everywhere. This is a cheap trick, sold
    to the gullible by the confused. Other than that, I like it :)
  created: '2009-08-08 21:14:34'
- author:
    name: sandrosandro
    picture: 112363
  body: "So basically it comes to this; ugly=statement=alternative. \r\n\r\nDesign
    observer had very good commentary about the new ugly, similar to CR's.\r\n\r\nhttp://observatory.designobserver.com/entry.html?entry=5867\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-09 11:22:02'
- author:
    name: paulstonier
    picture: 114324
  body: "Ugh. \"The New Ugly\"\u2026\r\n\r\nI see where he's coming from, but I can't
    stand to condone it. It's like the guy is trying to be David Carson, but knowing
    what he's doing wrong. Or trying to be Tibor Kalman without having a worthwhile
    message. I really hope this done not stick."
  created: '2009-08-09 12:47:02'
- author:
    name: sandrosandro
    picture: 112363
  body: 'David Carson had his five minutes. '
  created: '2009-08-09 13:24:20'
- author:
    name: paulstonier
    picture: 114324
  body: At least Carson did something worth appreciating.
  created: '2009-08-09 20:29:18'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: 'On the subject of the "New Ugly," and excuse the semi-self-promotion, but
    my boss posted an extended blog entry on the subject a while back: <em><a href=http://garciamedia.com/blog/articles/the_new_ugly_the_plain_ugly_the_not_so_ugly_how_do_we_define_beauty_in_our/>The
    New Ugly, the Plain Ugly, the Not-So-Ugly: How Do We Define Beauty in Our Craft?</a></em>. '
  created: '2009-08-10 05:53:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Fred - It's not interesting, it's pathetic. It has no artistic, aesthetic
    or creative merit whatsoever.\r\n\r\nIt's not even worth discussing. So ignore
    this post.\r\n\r\nNick Cooke"
  created: '2009-08-10 09:34:27'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "The Haus Der Kunst article is a discussion between Rem Koolhaas and Jaqcues
    Herzog. The debate is complex and I found it uncomfortable and challenging. That
    article is certainly not about empirical ideas of beauty \u2013 so why look at
    the magazine design in such terms? Have you read the article Nick? \r\n\r\nAs
    I recall I also found the Creative Review article a touch misleading by grouping
    together various non conformist platforms suggesting they were of the same origin.\r\n\r\nI
    don't think <em>ugly=statement=alternative sums</em> it up at all.\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-10 13:29:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Yes I have read the article. All that self-aware, ironic stuff gets right
    on my tits - \"hey look, I've done something really shite, aren't I brilliant?\"\r\n\r\nBut
    then I'm a type designer who spends hundreds of hours trying to create beauty,
    so it goes without saying that this goes against everything I stand for. After
    having spent so much time getting glyphs to look proportionally just right, then
    for some jumped-up motherfucker to come along and receive heaps of praise for
    bastardizing the shit out of it is particularly galling for most people who design
    type.\r\n\r\nBesides I remember it from the first time round, which wasn't that
    long ago, and it was bad then. So to my mind it's just a lazy rehash.\r\n\r\nAndrew
    - have you read \"The Emperor's New Clothes\"?\r\n\r\n\r\nNick Cooke"
  created: '2009-08-10 17:05:24'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Nick\r\n\r\nI don't know whether it is on line but the article by Heller
    \"The Cult of Ugly\" (Eye Magazine) pretty much sums it up. You will get a kick
    out of it. Especially when G. Swanson gets into the thick of it and starts calling
    it a visual Tourettes Syndrome  and design for design's sake that seems to say
    FU without really meaning it!\r\n\r\nIt is a hoot!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-08-10 19:12:46'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "The article \"Cult of the Ugly\" is on the web and here is the relevant Swanson
    material.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.gunnarswanson.com/old/writingPages/EmigreLetter.html\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-08-10 19:26:06'
- author:
    name: tearsforsappho
    picture: 115158
  body: "edgy? maybe. new? not really.\r\n\r\nUgly is still ugly to me."
  created: '2009-08-10 21:01:41'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Wow, Nick, keep your swearing tits on! I'd like to think I was a type designer
    too (yet to qualify really), but I don't let that inhibit my appreciation of this
    approach. I wanted to know what you thought about the <em>article</em> Built Ideology.
    As I recall the article is a discussion of how to rehabilitate a fascist monument.
    They don't tear it down, or tear down those who want to tear it down. They get
    beyond that kind of binary discussion. Any chance of that happening here?\r\n\r\nNow
    you are all lying on my couch, what are you so afraid of?\r\n\r\nThe New Emperor's
    New Clothes? The New Clothes of the Democratic People's Republic?\r\n\r\n<em>It
    has no artistic, aesthetic or creative merit whatsoever.</em>\r\nI think I read
    somewhere that it took MM a long time to get the right stretch, an amount that
    he was happy with.\r\n\r\nAnyway, I'm off to beat up some funny looking different
    people, then to the chip shop for a sh*g and some Michael Jackson flavoured news."
  created: '2009-08-10 23:16:10'
- author:
    name: paulstonier
    picture: 114324
  body: "You can tell he actually  has some design skill in the way he composes layouts,
    but he's reduced it to a Microsoft Word aesthetic that pisses me off. No matter
    how much time he put into getting the stretch \"right\", it's not acceptable.
    It still looks like crap and it's disrespectful to the design of the typeface.
    \r\n\r\nI understand where he is coming from in the sameness that he found in
    most editorial design, but he could have found a much better solution."
  created: '2009-08-10 23:40:49'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "\" think I read somewhere that it took MM a long time to get the right stretch,
    an amount that he was happy with.\"\r\n\r\nI find that really tough to swallow
    :>)\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-08-11 01:48:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "The Emperor\u2019s New Clothes\r\n\r\nA story by Hans Christian Andersen.
    An emperor hires two tailors who promise to make him a set of remarkable new clothes
    that will be invisible to anyone who is either incompetent or stupid. When the
    emperor goes to see his new clothes, he sees nothing at all \u2014 for the tailors
    are swindlers and there aren't any clothes. Afraid of being judged incompetent
    or stupid, the emperor pretends to be delighted with the new clothes and \u201Cwears\u201D
    them in a grand parade through the town. Everyone else also pretends to see them,
    until a child yells out, \u201CHe hasn't got any clothes on!\u201D\r\n\r\nNick
    Cooke"
  created: '2009-08-11 09:55:33'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "I know the story. I was trying to think of some way of advancing the allegory,
    hence <em>The New Emperor's New Clothes</em>. There is a double edged quality
    to the original tale that can make the person who invokes it a slave to it's logic.
    The Emperor is foolish because he is afraid. However people often call on the
    tale to besmirch things they are afraid of. They express the same rash quality
    as the Emperor, only it's inverted. The rush to accept things is easily exchanged
    for the rush to reject them.\r\n\r\nI will come back to your original comment
    <em>It has no artistic, aesthetic or creative merit whatsoever.</em> and link
    it to proof of my concept and also the subject of the article:\r\n\r\n'The inaugural
    exhibition was the Gro\xDFe Deutsche Kunstausstellung (\"Great German art exhibition\"),
    which was intended as an edifying contrast to the condemned modern art on display
    in the concurrent Entartete Kunst exhibition.'\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Haus_der_Kunst\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Degenerate_art\r\n\r\nAndrew\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-11 20:04:24'
- author:
    name: jarofmoths
    picture: 113378
  body: "I find it really difficult to look at. I wouldn't want to read it, no matter
    what it's about. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-11 21:06:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "I'm not in the least afraid of it - I just think it's crap.\r\n\r\n\r\nNick
    Cooke"
  created: '2009-08-12 10:19:51'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: Can I ask, out of curiosity for an example of something that isn't crap? Just
    to see where you are coming from. It would be good to end the debate on a high
    note!
  created: '2009-08-12 11:56:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Andrew, I have explained previously that I do not like bastardized type.
    It is never the designers' intention for the type to be distorted in appearance,
    if it hasn't been designed intentionally I really hate horizontals that are thicker
    than vertical stems. Why take Helvetica (yawn) and horizontally scale it like
    that? - it just doesn't look good. Why not use Helvetica Condensed? Yeah, but
    that would be too uncreative wouldn't it?\r\n\r\nThere are so many things that
    aren't crap. Right now we are living in a golden age of type design with so many
    wonderful beautiful designs out there. \r\n\r\nHere's something that I created
    a couple of days ago. It took me some time to design and artwork - I didn't just
    take something and mechanically scale it.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Massive_3936.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\nNick
    Cooke"
  created: '2009-08-12 12:30:47'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Whoa... that's massive Nick :>) But I would have... just kidding.\r\n\r\nNice
    work!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-08-12 14:00:46'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "I also agree we are in some sort of golden age, perhaps our definitions differ!
    I wasn't questioning your ability when I asked to see something that wasn't <em>crap</em>,
    it could have been anything.\r\n\r\nI don't think the aim of the modification
    is to look good, at least not in the way that your work looks good or Michael's
    work looks good, and I'm sure the designer is aware of this conceit \u2013 even
    if the type designer did not intend it, the art director did.\r\n\r\nOne definition
    of good is aesthetic, your own definition perhaps. Another way to define good
    might be appropriateness. As I said earlier I believe it is appropriate because
    it is uncomfortable and does not seek to pacify in the same way that some glossy
    magazines do. There is a deliberate tension there that has been \u2013 despite
    what you might think about the ease of the artworking \u2013 designed.\r\n\r\nAnd
    on the mention of Helvetica, recently we have seen the 'The New Emperors New Clothes'
    in action as Typophiles rushed to condemn it at the release of a film singing
    its praises."
  created: '2009-08-12 19:11:09'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Does Haus der Kunst call for tension? It is lost on me. In fact I think his
    choice of face was ill conceived to begin with: whether it was stretched, condensed,
    roughed up, beaten, obliqued or just muddled with.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-08-12 19:27:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "There is an image of a bunch of guys dancing around in Lederhosen. There
    is above it a stretched out line of sans type. How does this help communicate
    WHAT to the reader? This is purely a case of self-indulgence--the designer was
    having a bit of fun that day and got it published.  I assume the client was on
    holiday.  It is camel dung visually and functionally.  The requirement is first
    that it works as communication and this fails.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-08-12 21:00:24'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Chris, caaaan't weeeeeeee allllll jussssst ggeeetttttt aloonnnng : )\r\n\r\nOh
    hell, we are just going to have to agree that we disagree with the designer.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-08-12 22:15:57'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "They <em>were</em> having fun! They weren't trapped, or concerned about rules
    or bothered by some other bureaucracy!\r\n\r\nNick says he has read the magazine,
    have you Chris, and you Michael? What informs your judgement other than isolated
    typographic proofing? Just because it doesn't instantly convey something, that
    does'nt mean that it doesn't bequeath something in due time, upon a prolonged
    consumption of the content. It's not a road sign \u2013 immediacy is not necessity.
    It doesn't present some instantaneous avenue for you to travel down in your small
    (but ultimately comfortable) automobile of stereotypes.\r\n\r\n\"Now we celebrate
    the seductive in the commercial; we disinter the commercial in the seductive.
    We illuminate an axis of raw sincerity and sexed-up realism\u2026 \" \u2013 From
    the issue in question\r\n\r\n\"Maybe we only ever learn something when some form
    we think of as foreign provokes us \u2013 and we resist. But sometimes, many times,
    in the middle of the resistance, we end up loving this thing that has provoked
    us.\" \u2013 Mark Wigley, moderator of the <em>Built Ideology</em> discussion\r\n
    \r\n\"One option might be, as we have endeavoured, to find the old in the new,
    and the new in the old; to collide the banal with the sophisticated, the mainstream
    with the obscure. An agenda powered by an ultra-violent clashing of opposites\u2026
    \"\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-12 22:20:57'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: We can get along! Part of the golden age that Nick described is that ability
    to talk to one another.
  created: '2009-08-12 22:32:50'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "\"Nick says he has read the magazine, have you Chris, and you Michael?\"\r\n\r\nI
    have closed more than one magazine after a few pages, when they were typographically
    bereft. And I also dislike the sterile sans ethos that pervades most magazines
    today. As I have said, the only thing that saves most of the publications are
    the pictures. At least they are creative and well done. The type, well... I feel
    like I am on Xanex (sp.) when I see it. As to this particular instance, I would
    close the magazine before I got further agitated!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-08-12 23:17:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nick says he has read the magazine, have you Chris, and you Michael?\r\n\r\nnein.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-08-12 23:44:59'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "You read it nine times Chris> Wow : )\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-08-12 23:53:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "If the designers' aim was to create some bad-looking type why didn't he just
    use something like Badtyp by Font Bureau or the all-time classic pseudo-classy
    University Roman?\r\n\r\nWell, one thing that can be said for it - he certainly
    stirred up a debate! \r\n\r\n\r\nNick Cooke"
  created: '2009-08-13 09:32:17'
- author:
    name: paulstonier
    picture: 114324
  body: I understand where you're coming from, Andrew. I am often a proponent of concept
    over aesthetic. However, this is simply a lazy effort and says terrible things
    for design. Not only is it spitting in the face of those who designed the type,
    but also encourages other to do so. I don't have things off the top of my head
    that I can think of, but there are many better answers to his problem of the ubiquitous
    design of a "glossy magazine". With true care and love in his work, he could find
    an example to make a difference within the industry without making crap, but actually
    something worth experiencing.
  created: '2009-08-14 00:07:59'
date: '2009-08-07 21:59:14'
title: tall & narrow sans serif?

---
