---
author:
  name: cfig
  picture: 114258
body: "Hi all, I'm working on a mark for a contractor that installs high quality custom
  kitchen and bathroom counters, Stone & Wood Concepts. They lean towards a look that
  incorporates a monogram so I've been playing with these ideas based loosely on the
  \"counter\" idea with S & W, I like the concept but none of these seem to be quite
  working. Any thoughts/ideas to possibly tweak these or take it a different direction?
  Thanks.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sw_sketches01_5206.jpg]"
comments:
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "To me, these are a little too modular- and techno-looking to represent \"high
    quality\". I'd go in a different direction.\r\n\r\nIf I were creating a brand
    for a company with such a generic name, I'd have some fun with a (non-typographic)
    mark, and use very simple typography. But if they requested a monogram, then...\r\n\r\nTry
    playing with type that defies expectations. Granite is heavy and rigid, so maybe
    go with a thin, rounded sans. I don't know... just a suggestion. Let's hear what
    the others have to say.\r\n\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2009-08-11 06:46:11'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "Thanks Lex. They haven't specifically requested a monogram, but several examples
    they liked were marks incorporating monograms. I like the idea of a a mark with
    type, just a matter of finding a way to represent granite/counters.\r\n\r\nAgreed
    that it does come off as a bit too modular, this is one of those that looked much
    better as a napkin sketch than drawn mark :) "
  created: '2009-08-11 15:29:19'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: Ahem .. this may sound odd, but the Ws look quite a bit anatomical to me.
    Especially the bottom right one. As in "a view from within a toilet bowl" kind
    of anatomical.
  created: '2009-08-11 17:27:20'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'When I think stone and wood I think craftsmanship, fine details, etc. This
    mark doesn''t seem to hit that. '
  created: '2009-08-11 18:47:47'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "epsilicon, I hadn't thought that at all...and now I can't not see it :) back
    to the drawing board.\r\n\r\nGood point aluminum, thanks. Sketching and brainstorming
    more now."
  created: '2009-08-13 04:50:54'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "Playing with a bit of a dimensional concept...thoughts?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sw_sketches02_6375.jpg]"
  created: '2009-08-13 05:54:53'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "and a quick rough of the concept with both the S and W.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sw_sketches02b_5277.jpg]"
  created: '2009-08-13 06:09:57'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "I like the 3D 'S' on its own. The 'SW' looks a little too crammed in.\r\n\r\nSee
    if you can make the 'S' look like an 'S' when viewed from the southeast, and a
    'W' when viewed from the southwest.\r\n\r\nAlso, make sure you have a version
    that works in one colour.\r\n\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2009-08-13 20:42:46'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "<cite>See if you can make the \u2019S\u2019 look like an \u2019S\u2019 when
    viewed from the southeast, and a \u2019W\u2019 when viewed from the southwest.</cite>\r\n\r\nMy
    thoughts as well.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\npenn"
  created: '2009-08-13 21:05:59'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: Thanks guys. I'd actually starting working with a similar idea but couldn't
    figure out how to get it to read...think I might be onto something now.
  created: '2009-08-14 04:13:10'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "Ok, I'm not entirely sure it reads as the S and W on first look, but then
    again I don't know that it has to. Getting it to work without graytones may be
    difficult unless I want to introduce a hairline between the different planes.\r\n\r\nAny
    ideas on another way to possibly approach this, thoughts on if the concept is
    working, etc?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sw_sketches03_5797.jpg]"
  created: '2009-08-14 06:20:39'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "Another version with just the strokes that the two letter share.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sw_sketches05_5389.jpg]"
  created: '2009-08-15 16:51:46'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "It is a bit abstract, but that's not necessarily a bad thing. Optically,
    it looks like the part that's separated (the island) is closer to the middle section.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    to help with it reading as a 'w', you might consider cutting the left corner at
    a 45 degree angle. Could be a bad suggestion, but might be worth a shot. \r\n\r\npenn"
  created: '2009-08-15 17:04:48'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "The 2D version of the second mark (i.e. squished C with an underline forming
    an E) is in use by some designer as a personal mark. I think it was even discussed
    here several months ago.\r\n\r\nConcept-wise I don't think this approach's working.
    This logo seems to be about etching, or at the very least precise metal work.
    Certainly not the granite countertops.\r\n\r\nHave you considered abstracting
    a (round) lip of a countertop into a mark somehow ? "
  created: '2009-08-15 17:29:06'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "Yeah, I don't know that it's working either. And thanks for the heads up
    on the identity, didn't know that. I'm just having a hard time with this one,
    just can't seem to get a lot of variety in the directions I've been trying to
    come at it from.\r\n\r\nI've actually been sketching a variety of attempts on
    that (counter lip) for a while now. A few rough ideas, any of them grab you?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sw_sketches06_5813.jpg]"
  created: '2009-08-17 00:50:05'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "And, giving a bit more of the cabinet idea...now I think this might be getting
    somewhere.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sw_sketches06b_5312.jpg]"
  created: '2009-08-17 00:53:27'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: Umm...anyone?
  created: '2009-08-19 23:27:11'
- author:
    name: Marco
  body: "Hi chris,\r\nI think this is a really nice form, but I don't think it matches
    this client/brand.\r\nI still keep thinking about combining a S and W. \r\n\r\njust
    my 2c"
  created: '2009-08-19 23:35:47'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: Thanks for the thoughts Marco. can you elaborate a bit on what you're thinking?
  created: '2009-08-19 23:49:32'
- author:
    name: Marco
  body: Do you mind if I post a sketch? It's a little difficult explaining?
  created: '2009-08-19 23:59:42'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: Not at all, the more input the better :)
  created: '2009-08-20 00:35:49'
- author:
    name: RAWTYPE
    picture: 109949
  body: 'as for las Sw the S stroke is too  thick '
  created: '2009-08-20 01:16:42'
- body: "I agree with cirulis. I also think it's your best yet and with some refinements,
    it could be really great.\r\n\r\nIMO, it needs more breathing room overall. Those
    white slivers won't hold up, and currently it feels more crowded than it feels
    fitted together like cabinets. Have you thought about making the bottom of the
    s and the w feel more \"cabinet-like\" somehow? Perhaps subtle faceted corners?
    Or off-black inlaid panels? I might surf around on Home Depot and look at cabinetry
    a bit."
  created: '2009-08-20 01:58:20'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "I actually went walking around Home Depot this weekend for that very purpose
    :)\r\n\r\nI'm playing with some more more space, but I don't want the negative
    white lines to start reading as letters of their own. Still working with it, seeing
    what might work."
  created: '2009-08-20 03:35:17'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "And a different direction...brainstorming and sketching, looking at the countertop
    form as ampersand. Type is just a placeholder at this point.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sw_sketches07_6376.jpg]"
  created: '2009-08-20 03:56:40'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "Developing the ampersand and type a bit more.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sw_sketches07b_5014.jpg]"
  created: '2009-08-20 06:56:44'
- author:
    name: Marco
  body: "Hi Chris,\r\n\r\nThis is what I meant. It's just a quick sketch, but its
    an idea...[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Afbeelding14_4284.png]"
  created: '2009-08-20 08:23:15'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Your last one, sans the mark in the middle is likely a more appropriate solution
    for the problem.\r\n\r\nGoing back to my earlier comment, I think the mark's aesthetic
    should hint at craftsmanship. \r\n\r\nI like a lot of the SW monograms you created,
    but I don't think that approach makes as much sense as a nicely typeset mark.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not sure you need to literally represent countertops, either. Could a tagline
    along the lines of 'fine cabinetry and kitchen surfaces' work? "
  created: '2009-08-20 18:16:23'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "I agree on the aesthetic, I feel like the client really wants some sort of
    a mark go to with a typographic treatment, however. I do like the general feel
    of the type on these later ones, however, you think there's a way to integrate
    a mark into that? I think the craftsmenship/quality idea is on the right track,
    but I'm having a hard time visually representing that.\r\n\r\nWhen talking with
    the client, they were key to emphasize that they weren't the cheapest option out
    there, but they were quality and did things right the first time (as the contractor
    business here in Houston, post-hurricane, is filled with a lot of fly-by-night
    operations). A tagline might work, but their business is primarily in the countertop
    part of the job and not the cabinets/carpentry aspect.\r\n\r\nMarco, understand
    your thought there, thanks. Think I'm kind of looking away from that direction
    now though."
  created: '2009-08-20 19:05:47'
- author:
    name: Marco
  body: "Good thoughts Chris,\r\n\r\nLooking forward to the update!"
  created: '2009-08-20 21:22:25'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "Working more with a type only solution, as well as a simple icon to go with
    (that I don't think goes with too well yet).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sw_sketches08_6630.jpg]"
  created: '2009-08-21 14:37:03'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: Nudge "Concepts" in the top one to the left a bit and it will be excellent.
  created: '2009-08-21 17:46:44'
- author:
    name: Special-K
    picture: 117327
  body: "Liking it, but I think the ampersand looks a little frail/weak. \r\nMaybe?:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_2_6718.jpg]"
  created: '2009-08-21 19:46:46'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "epsilicon : I seem to have a knack for finding clients whose names don't
    like to center nicely :) I've nudged \"concepts\" back and forth trying to find
    the balance between the optical and actual centers, but I'll try nudging left.
    and thanks, glad you like.\r\n\r\nSpecial-K: I'm definitely not opposed to trying
    a different ampersand with a bit more visual mass, but that one is a bit too decorative
    for the overall identity I think.\r\n\r\nSounds like no one is big on the icon,
    which is at least good to know. I'd like to offer them a choice with a mark as
    well as just the type, however, we'll see what turns up with some more sketching."
  created: '2009-08-21 20:58:38'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "Final option as sent to the client, with a bit of kerning and alignment adjustments,
    along with my explanation of why a typographic option seemed to be the best choice:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sw_logo_bw_4480.jpg]"
  created: '2009-08-23 20:44:19'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "I think it's excellent. The & really captures the craftsmanship aspect and
    the type relates well to the heaviness and general feel of the stone.\r\n\r\nThe
    only nitpick would be the E-&-W being too tight, but I'm not sure if it'd be any
    better wider."
  created: '2009-08-24 18:46:15'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "Thanks, and I may tweak the spacing there just a bit.\r\n\r\nClient response
    was that they think they liked it (?) but wanted to see other options for the
    font, which is probably something I'll need to follow up on to get a bit more
    detail. That being said, any other type suggestions for this?"
  created: '2009-08-24 20:32:05'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "If you're still open to the idea of a mark, what about an axe and chisel
    arranged like a crossbones? Just small and simple.\r\n\r\npenn"
  created: '2009-08-24 20:54:42'
- author:
    name: Ed_Aranda
    picture: 117416
  body: "I would play with the kerning on \u201Cconcepts\u201D. To my eye, the \u201CEPT\u201D
    seems tighter than the \u201CCONC\u201D. Other than that I think its really nice.
    Love the ampersand.\r\n\r\nAlso, I want the word \u201Cconcepts\u201D to be centered
    with the ampersand, but \u201Cstone\u201D appears a bit wider than \u201Cwood\u201D
    making it somewhat impossible to optically center."
  created: '2009-08-27 00:38:15'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "penn, I think I'm at the point where (due to budget and since the client
    is more or less on board) I'm going to stick with the typographic approach and
    move on. Interesting thought though, thanks.\r\n\r\nEd, good observation, I'm
    still playing with the kerning a bit and will definitely tweak the final and get
    some feedback before moving on the business card and site design. And I've been
    back and forth on the optical center as well, I think it may be as close as I
    can get it there unless you've got ideas?\r\n\r\nThe client liked the ampersand
    and \"concepts\" but wanted to see a few more type options so I gave him a few,
    these do still have some kerning issues that I'll work on once we've chosen a
    final direction. Here's hoping he stays with the original.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sw_typeoptions_4562.jpg]"
  created: '2009-08-27 16:54:07'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I hate to toss out an idea like this so late in the process but...\r\n\r\nWhat
    if the ampersand was set inside a slice of log or carved into a stone (perhaps
    used interchangeably).\r\n\r\nThat might bring back the literal icon a bit.  \r\n\r\nBut
    I do like where you ended up. I think it very much fits with their line of business
    and the type of clientele they'd likely want to target. Nice work!"
  created: '2009-08-27 17:32:49'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: Have a look at [[http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/Hightower|Hightower]] type
    if you are considering serifs.
  created: '2009-08-27 17:35:47'
- author:
    name: bemerx25
    picture: 112539
  body: Trajan may actually work here, stone and all that...but then there's the Hollywood
    baggage to deal with...
  created: '2009-08-27 21:03:20'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "Actually, the ampersand on the original is Trajan :) I had the thought but
    refrained due to the Hollywood cliche, it's at least worth trying though, good
    thought.\r\n\r\nepsilicon, I do like the typeface but I'm not sure this project
    is worth the font price, but I'm going to try it and see if I can talk myself
    into the purchase. I do have another project this might work for too actually,
    thanks for the suggestion."
  created: '2009-08-27 23:02:51'
- author:
    name: Ed_Aranda
    picture: 117416
  body: "I hope they go with the top one. Is that Gotham? I think it works very well
    for this. It has a feeling of permanence, that when paired with the sharpness
    of the ampersand, makes it appealing in the same way a granite counter is appealing.
    \r\n\r\nHmm, I think I just sold the idea to myself."
  created: '2009-08-27 23:04:18'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: Correct in Gotham, good eye Ed. and you just convinced me too... I may borrow
    that for the logo pitch if needed :)
  created: '2009-08-28 16:28:36'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "The client hasn't committed to any of the options yet so I wanted to show
    him the mark applied on something with a bit of color. Thoughts? I like the idea
    but I think the type needs some tweaking.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sw_card01_4368.jpg]"
  created: '2009-09-03 07:00:52'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "I was picturing more slate greys and dark browns. Perhaps something with
    texture?\r\n\r\npenn"
  created: '2009-09-03 14:47:19'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: ^ great idea. White on dark gray, something like [[http://www.beastpieces.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2009/05/_0000_andrew_young_detail1.jpg|this]]
    for example.
  created: '2009-09-03 19:12:45'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: I love that idea, problem is I'm pretty sure he wants to keep a light colored
    card so as to be able to write info/quotes/etc. on the back. I guess I could always
    just reverse out the type on the font and print it on white stock. And I'd love
    to letterpress it but i KNOW that isn't in the budget :) Good ideas, thanks.
  created: '2009-09-03 19:28:22'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Yea, I'd consider the colors of classy kitchen interiors. Deep slates, deep
    cherry/oak, etc.\r\n\r\nI think the client is smart to go light colored for note
    taking and like your idea of 2-sided card (if budget allows, but b-card printing
    is so cheap these days one would think that would be doable).\r\n\r\nOr--if I
    may toss out even more ideas way late in the game (and this one might be very
    cheesy so take it with a grain of salt)--what if one side was set with some element
    of wood grain and the reverse some element of stone texture?"
  created: '2009-09-03 21:30:07'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "<cite>what if one side was set with some element of wood grain and the reverse
    some element of stone texture?</cite>\r\n\r\nOr you could have two versions of
    the card . . . one side would be textured on each - one wood grain and one stone.\r\n\r\npenn"
  created: '2009-09-03 21:51:03'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "<em> > so as to be able to write info/quotes/etc. on the back. </em>\r\n\r\nYou
    can always laminate black onto white. Black for presentation, white for the notes.\r\n\r\n<em>
    > what if one side was set with some element of wood grain and the reverse some
    element of stone texture?</em>\r\n\r\nWouldn't this look a bit cheesy though ?
    I mean it can be pulled off, but it is going to be rather hard."
  created: '2009-09-03 22:20:49'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "What about a line art representation of wood grain (letterpressed would be
    best)?\r\n\r\npenn"
  created: '2009-09-04 01:19:33'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: Oooh, the letterpress version of the grain is a great idea.
  created: '2009-09-04 02:13:12'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: Really fun ideas on the letterpressed texture but there's no way that fits
    into the budget unfortunately. I'm curious to see if the woodgrain idea could
    be accomplished some other way, but it seems like most of their business is granite
    (despite the name) so I don't know that they'd want to graphically emphasize it
    that much.
  created: '2009-09-04 19:06:06'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "How about business cards printed on slate then?\r\n\r\n(I don't think letter
    pressing would be an option anymore)\r\n\r\nAlso, I don't know what they charge
    for custom jobs, and I don't know how many cards you're looking at having printed,
    but this place seems to be pretty reasonable for their letterpress jobs: [[http://themandatepress.com/|The
    Mandate Press]].\r\n\r\npenn"
  created: '2009-09-05 02:17:43'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "They do actually look to have some decent prices, might be worth looking
    into, thanks.\r\n\r\nPlaying with a bit of a different color palette in the same
    format as the other card. Probably need to brighten up the tan color a bit.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sw_card02_5138.jpg]\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-09 19:23:47'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "> <em>Probably need to brighten up the tan color a bit.</em>\r\n\r\nYep.
    Or darken the gray a bit."
  created: '2009-09-09 22:15:00'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: That would work too, I'll play with the two. Think it's working otherwise?
  created: '2009-09-09 22:51:01'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "minor update:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sw_card02_5252.jpg]"
  created: '2009-09-10 17:17:32'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "Hmm .. I think keeping the padding around the card edges the same could make
    the card look more geometrically \"balanced\". At the very least, I'd make the
    crossed rectangle square:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/card_4886.png]\r\n\r\nAlternatively,
    start with the same padding on the left and at the bottom, right-align WOOD and
    .com and then set the top padding to that at the right edge.\r\n\r\nAlso, color-wise
    - I think the & is still a bit too dark, though the perception of it certainly
    depends on the calibration of the monitor."
  created: '2009-09-10 18:33:33'
- author:
    name: Lorem.ipsum
    picture: 117984
  body: "I agree with epsilicon: the logo would be bette placed if it's top padding
    was equal to it's right padding, even if it's wider than the bottom/left one.\r\nNice
    design btw, I'd like to see it printed..."
  created: '2009-09-10 20:55:24'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: Thanks guys, I actually started looking at that last night and moved up the
    logo a bit but it was a bit too late for me to be that analytical :) I'll adjust
    that a bit, and agreed that that's still a bit too dark so I'll look to make an
    adjustment there as well.
  created: '2009-09-10 21:39:13'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "Good news, after seeing the card the client is on board and likes the direction,
    they were having a hard time just seeing it in black and white but really like
    it in color. Going to tweak the card and colors and start on the site design.\r\n\r\nThanks
    for all the input guys!"
  created: '2009-09-15 16:21:28'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "I was not smart and had not yet registered this domain when I posted the
    business card design.\r\n\r\nTo the person who registered that domain, you are
    a sleazeball. You're also currently violating copyright law."
  created: '2009-09-17 17:15:46'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: "wow. that is just blatant.\r\n\r\nlet us know if you file suit, threaten
    to, or whatever--how it turns out.\r\n\r\nwhat a dick!"
  created: '2009-09-17 18:01:11'
- author:
    name: Simplicious
    picture: 117329
  body: "Since stoneandwoodconcepts.com is a very long (maybe too long) url try stonewoodconcepts.com
    which is still very long but at least it's available.\r\n\r\nNevertheless this
    is very outrageous but sadly not the first time something like this happend. I've
    read about domain-check websites which buy domains automatically if they were
    looked up via their interface."
  created: '2009-09-17 18:11:52'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "I can tell you exactly what happened...google \"granite countertop logo\"
    and check the bottom result on the first page.\r\n\r\nI am talking with my attorney,
    but the problem is all that can probably be done is force them to take the logo
    down. And I've already registered stoneandwoodconcepts.net and just did stonewoodconcepts.com,
    thanks."
  created: '2009-09-17 18:18:14'
- author:
    name: Simplicious
    picture: 117329
  body: "<cite>\"... the problem is all that can probably be done is force them to
    take the logo down.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nI guess so.\r\n\r\nUnfortunately it's kind
    of ironic since the google result is this thread here which was created by you.
    I hope the alternative domains are working for your client and this event will
    be one of those you can tell as an ancedote someday.\r\n:)"
  created: '2009-09-17 18:37:54'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "uhhh . . . yeah wtf happened? They slapped one of your sketch jpgs on the
    site???\r\n\r\nWhat's that phone number they have listed? Wow that's creepy.\r\n\r\npenn"
  created: '2009-09-17 20:34:32'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "The site was registered by someone on behalf of Alluring Stone (alluringstone.com)
    company of Irving, Texas. They are just trying to mislead visitors and steal the
    traffic that is going to be destined to the stoneandwoodconcepts.com. Where they
    did f#ck up is in placing your logo on the website and impersonating another company.
    This is fraud and it is typically sufficient to file a complaint with godaddy.com
    (their domain registrant) and have their registration nullified.\r\n\r\nIn short
    - take the screenshots of the website, archive them and file a complaint with
    godaddy.com, detailing the exact circumstances. Talk to your lawyer. \r\n\r\nAdditionally,
    send an email to abuse@privatesystems.net, which is the copyright/spam/DMCA contact
    email of the company that currently hosts the website, and demand to take the
    website offline as it is fraudulent in nature and it also contains your copyrighted
    material."
  created: '2009-09-17 20:51:30'
- author:
    name: iffy
    picture: 113881
  body: '^ Wow you''re awesome! '
  created: '2009-09-17 21:09:00'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "Yeah, I'd done a bit of the research already and found the DNS info. WHOIS
    lists the nameserver as something different though, as it's Dallas based I wonder
    if they're hosting the site themselves.\r\n\r\nAt this point I'm debating between
    trying to pursue this legally and simply buying the domain if it's offered reasonably.
    I've been talking with a good friend of mine who just happens to have recently
    graduated law school with a specialty in intellectual property (convenient). He
    directed me to this article, good read on the subject:\r\nhttp://www.chrisstewartlaw.com/domain.php?page=domain\r\n\r\nWere
    the name trademarked this would be a very simply legally remedied case, but the
    name unfortunately isn't."
  created: '2009-09-17 21:14:30'
- author:
    name: jonsel
    picture: 111354
  body: This is amazing, but a pretty good reason why we should all be careful about
    posting in-progress work for our clients. You potentially put your client at risk.
    I wish it weren't the case. I'd love to get feedback from the community, but if
    a client's competitor saw anything, I'd be fired instantly. As is illustrated
    by the above situation, it's not only designers and typographers who will see
    these threads.
  created: '2009-09-17 21:17:54'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: worst case? Swap the name to Wood and Stone.
  created: '2009-09-17 21:42:30'
- author:
    name: Simplicious
    picture: 117329
  body: "<cite>\"worst case? Swap the name to Wood and Stone.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nIt acutally
    sounds better :)"
  created: '2009-09-17 22:04:24'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "If you look now, the website is different (as of 8:00 est). They've altered
    the logo slightly too.\r\n\r\npenn"
  created: '2009-09-18 01:01:23'
- author:
    name: Simplicious
    picture: 117329
  body: It seems like they are getting serious now about abusing your logo. It's unbelievable!
  created: '2009-09-18 01:23:20'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "I noticed the logo and content change last night as well. Interesting that
    any reference to the business side is now removed.\r\n\r\nI'm actively discussing
    the legal options with my attorney so I'll refrain from any more comment on this
    for the moment. Thanks for the support, I'll let you guys know what happens."
  created: '2009-09-18 15:58:02'
date: '2009-08-11 06:31:55'
node_type: forum
title: Logo for granite countertop contractor

---
