---
author:
  name: Marco
body: "Hi everyone,\r\n\r\nCurrently I'm helping a friend out. She's an Interior Architect
  who recently started up up her own business. Her clients are (richer) private home
  owners and companies (mostly headoffices). The logo should both reflect being a
  small studio, as well as have a professional enough look for the bigger companies.
  \r\n\r\nI'm almost set on the logo, which represents a house, with a pencil inside
  (interior) and is a capital A > the first letter of the studio name. \r\n\r\nBut
  now having troubles with the lockup. The type is Univers, and not kerned yet.\r\n\r\nI
  would like to hear your reactions on the logo, and suggestions on the typography,\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\n\r\nMarco\r\n\r\nNEW
  DESIGN BELOW"
comments:
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: The rounded corners don't seem to fit.
  created: '2009-08-11 19:45:09'
- author:
    name: Marco
  body: "Thanks@Aluminium.\r\n\r\nDo you think it would be better to search another
    font (like rounded)? I have tried the mark with straight corners, but it somehow
    looses its flow, IMO. But I could use some fresh eyes...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Untitled-2_4488.jpg]"
  created: '2009-08-11 20:02:19'
- author:
    name: theplatypus
    picture: 115609
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/test_6196_5200.gif]\r\n\r\nI see what
    you're trying to do here.  I didn't pick up the figure-ground-reversal at first.
    \ I didn't even get it on the second or third time.  I believe you're trying to
    have that duality of image but frankly, it's not working because the balance isn't
    there.\r\n\r\nSome observations:\r\nThe rounded corners throw me off; makes me
    think \"children\" or \"immature.\"  There's no sophistication here.  Is there
    a reason you haven't ALL CAPS?  You have a lot of vertical movement with the House
    and Pencil illustration, which can be cool, but you need to follow it with the
    typography.\r\n\r\nQuestions to ask yourself:\r\nIf she's fun/funky, why not tilt
    the house?  Capitalize on the fun/funky 'cause that's what's going to set her
    brand apart from anyone else.\r\n\r\nArchitecture is about the 3D form, yes?  Why
    leave this as a 2D logo?  What would happen if you add depth to the illustration
    but kept the concept of the pencil within the house?\r\n\r\nbest regards,\r\ndaniel"
  created: '2009-08-11 20:22:34'
- author:
    name: Frambwaze
  body: "imo, trying to mix 3 different symbols might be quite difficult and trying
    too hard will get you a bad logo. I'ld stick on 2 symbols, like the A and the
    House, or the pen and the house, etc. If you ever succeed to get those 2 together
    well, maybe the third will fit if you're lucky enough.\r\n(excuse bad english)\r\ngood
    luck,\r\n\r\ni."
  created: '2009-08-11 20:53:36'
- author:
    name: Marco
  body: "Thanks,\r\n\r\nI think I feel the type is not working because maybe the mark
    isn't working...\r\nBut sometimes you just fall in love with your own concept...\r\n\r\nI'll
    try some more sketching... Maybe 3 ideas is too much. Will post more soon:)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-11 21:20:27'
- author:
    name: Marco
  body: "I've added some premature sketches (digitalised, not yet 'designed') in relation
    to the idea of combining either letter A with house, or pencil with the house.\r\n\r\nI'm
    hoping to hear some thoughts on this...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ideen_5017.jpg]"
  created: '2009-08-13 11:24:43'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "How about a combination of 3 and 4 ? Pencil on top of the house shape. First
    row is largely unremarkable. 6a and 6b look quite a bit military.\r\n\r\nI would
    most certainly drop 5a, 5b, 7a, 7b, 7d, 7e, 7f, 7g, 7h. There was a Little Johnny
    joke about this shape being someone fetching a soap from the floor.\r\n\r\n\r\nHmm
    .. actually 8a/8b are very nice. A bit too simplistic, but the A in a neg space
    is awesome."
  created: '2009-08-13 16:33:16'
- author:
    name: natalie_F
  body: "I think that number 2 is interesting because the angle makes it more dynamic
    and multi-dimensional. However the shape within throws it off because it's not
    at the same angle  as the outer shape. In most of your shape-within-a-shape designs
    you seem to be avoiding lining up the shape within to the shape outside \u2013
    is this on purpose? Some of them are off by just a little bit and perhaps would
    create more harmony if they were balanced. Be aware of the small details of the
    others... some of them are small on-screen and could potentially fill in when
    printing."
  created: '2009-08-13 16:33:59'
- author:
    name: picard102
    picture: 112137
  body: I liked 6a and 6b.
  created: '2009-08-13 17:27:31'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "8a. Definitely.\r\n\r\npenn"
  created: '2009-08-13 17:30:47'
- author:
    name: Marco
  body: "Thanks everyone, for the great help! \r\n\r\nMy own picks were 2/3/6a/8a.
    I will coninue on those. There is something else i want to try too, because of
    number 2. I really like the 2D vs 3D effect in this. Probably post new developements
    tomorrow.\r\n\r\n@epsilicon/penn > I really like 8a but in my sketches (on paper)
    I just couldn't make it more 'not simple', specific... Any ideas on this (or is
    that my job:))...? I tried with serifs, maybe i'll go that way.\r\n\r\n@natalie_F
    > please note that these are quick drafts, to visually order my ideas.But thanks
    for the heads up on the detailing, definitely a thing to always remember:). And
    for the offbalance > I didn't do it on purpose, but some felt to rigid hen centering
    everything. \r\n\r\nAnyone else care to chime in?\r\n\r\nMarco"
  created: '2009-08-13 21:40:31'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "Don't try to jazz it (8a) up. Play around with it with some fonts to get
    your ideas going on how the mark would fit with text. Make it interesting through
    how you use it.\r\n\r\npenn"
  created: '2009-08-13 23:54:23'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: Hold on a sec. Is (8a) supposed to look like a tip of a pencil ? If so, I'm
    just not sure if that's a correct concept for an interior architect (as opposed
    to a graphic designer, for example). I mean it is certainly relevant, but it's
    not 100% spot on.
  created: '2009-08-14 00:44:07'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "How about something like this to make the 8a/b a bit more interesting:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/arch-2_5253.png]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-14 06:02:57'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "Now it looks like a crayon. Though you might attract a younger generation
    of client :)\r\n\r\npenn"
  created: '2009-08-14 15:19:00'
- author:
    name: Frambwaze
  body: "@epsilicon: we're losing the A but it does look more like a pencil\r\n\r\nmy
    picks would be 3 and 8a\r\n:)"
  created: '2009-08-14 16:44:35'
- author:
    name: sandrosandro
    picture: 112363
  body: 3 and 8a
  created: '2009-08-15 11:53:44'
- author:
    name: Rafal Szczawinski
    picture: 117191
  body: "I think 8a combined with some better typography would be excellent. The way
    you use Univers looks a bit dated and unpolished. Try something different. Some
    slightly geometrical sans serif could do the trick\u2026 perhaps Avenir? Gotham?
    Futura?"
  created: '2009-08-15 13:04:34'
- author:
    name: Marco
  body: "A small update... Been a little busy with other clients, but will post more
    tomorrow.\r\n\r\nThanks for the input everyone![img:sites/default/files/old-images/Untitled-1_6160.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Untitled-2_5938.jpg]"
  created: '2009-08-16 21:38:02'
- author:
    name: sandrosandro
    picture: 112363
  body: "I think there is too much contrast between mark and type. Mark is pretty
    strong so you should distance type and make it more neutral and balanced because
    this great mark is losing its power because of type. Mark itself currently is
    way much better than with type.\r\n_\r\n\r\nSandro"
  created: '2009-08-17 11:15:29'
- author:
    name: Marco
  body: "@Sandro: Thanks for the input. Do you think the mark with straight lines
    is better?\r\nAgree on the type. Repalcing the 'A' with the mark isn't working..."
  created: '2009-08-17 12:36:17'
- author:
    name: sandrosandro
    picture: 112363
  body: "Yes, straight line is better choice. Solution lies in creating the space
    and enough distance and ratio between mark and type. Especially as mark is so
    black and strong.\r\n_\r\n\r\nSandro"
  created: '2009-08-17 13:53:57'
- author:
    name: Frambwaze
  body: Need a stronger type. Like bolder maybe? But i like the all caps.
  created: '2009-08-17 14:53:59'
- author:
    name: theplatypus
    picture: 115609
  body: "Try a sarif typeface!  Or a lower case \"a\" ... perhaps.  You'd lose the
    pencil though, so scratch that.  2 and 8a are good stuff.  Nice job thus far.\r\n\r\nbest
    regards,\r\ndaniel"
  created: '2009-08-17 18:30:59'
- author:
    name: Marco
  body: "Update:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/test_5802.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
    tried some bold type, but still unsure...\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-19 20:59:13'
- author:
    name: cslem1
  body: "Fitting a logo into a square is often a good choice. Try putting the mark
    above the type? and balance out the contrast between weight and size.\r\n\r\ncourtney"
  created: '2009-08-19 21:37:08'
- author:
    name: Marco
  body: "A simple variation. I'm going for trade gothic at the moment.\r\n(also a
    businesscard solution)[img:sites/default/files/old-images/test2_3590.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/card_4275.jpg]\r\n\r\nI'm
    liking where it's going, still need to kern kern kern:) "
  created: '2009-08-19 21:47:21'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: I think the 12.59pm type choice looks better. The condensed trade gothic doesn't
    really match the wide footing of the mark.
  created: '2009-08-19 21:53:36'
- author:
    name: Marco
  body: "@ epsilicon: I tried that... Maybe I'm tired :). For the sake of comparing.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/test3_6273.jpg]"
  created: '2009-08-19 22:00:06'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: I think it's better. Perhaps consider even wider typeface. Something like
    Gotham, Omnes or Locator.
  created: '2009-08-19 22:15:40'
- body: "\r\nFor no real logical reason, I want the white space between the lead and
    the pencil wood to match the weight of the typeface. \r\n\r\nOr, I want to add
    an s-shaped walking path up to the little pencil house .. and change the name
    to \"Appelo Studio\" to create the initials AS to match the mark. Ok, well, maybe
    not.\r\n\r\nBut my white space idea might unify the mark and type better...? \r\n\r\n:)"
  created: '2009-08-19 22:26:51'
- author:
    name: Marco
  body: "Thanks all!\r\n\r\nAnother set (already made previous to your comments).
    I tried to bring the 3d effect in the house... @Alaskan > I already tried to match
    the whitespace. I didn't think it was working:) Above post uses double. [img:sites/default/files/old-images/test4_4399.jpg]\r\n\r\nNotice
    as these were sketches, the centering is NOT optically correct."
  created: '2009-08-19 22:56:21'
- author:
    name: Marco
  body: "A variation where the lead of the pencil matches the X-height (and with Gotham).\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Afbeelding13_3482.png]"
  created: '2009-08-19 23:24:27'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "Last one is nice and solid.\r\n\r\npenn"
  created: '2009-08-20 02:29:18'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "Isn't the mark a bit too heavy in the last one ? It seems to be sitting on
    a type.\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-20 02:54:23'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "It all might depend on what sort of color treatment is applied. If its a
    nice light yellowish tan it might work ok. I do agree though on 2nd look that
    as a big black mark it does come off a bit heavy.\r\n\r\npenn"
  created: '2009-08-20 02:58:44'
- author:
    name: cslem1
  body: "hmmm, scale down the logo mark, and open up the kerning a bunch. It will
    give the logotype some more space, but also look clean and light. (this is why
    the logo type needs to scale down) I'm just seeing it in my head, so it might
    not work, but give it a shot.\r\n\r\ncourtney"
  created: '2009-08-20 03:18:15'
- author:
    name: cslem1
  body: "oh oh oh, Futura! Futura Medium. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/studioA_4620.jpg]\r\n\r\ncourtney"
  created: '2009-08-20 03:29:28'
- author:
    name: Marco
  body: "@cslem1 > thanks. Looks OK, but I really don't feel futura, mainly because
    of the differces in X-width. \r\n\r\nAnyone else has opinions on the mark itsself
    (the symbol)?"
  created: '2009-08-20 08:26:06'
- author:
    name: neverblink
    picture: 113022
  body: "I like the one with Gotham, looks like you almost have a really well constructed
    logo/mark (just a tad off here and there).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/appelo_6297.png]"
  created: '2009-08-20 13:01:53'
- author:
    name: cslem1
  body: "@neverblink > I'm not sure that works so well. There is an optical side that
    needs to be taken into consideration. The logomark is very blocky and heavy, it
    needs a typeface that can hold that weight. The latter is getting crushed. Even
    if he picks a heavier typeface, it won't help. There needs to be a bigger contrast
    in size to hold up that mark. \r\n\r\ncourtney"
  created: '2009-08-20 15:58:32'
- author:
    name: neverblink
    picture: 113022
  body: "I don't mind the mark being much bigger in relation to the wordmark. It gives
    it the feeling of scale - as big as a house - which seems fitting for an architect.\r\n\r\nOfcourse
    this wouldn't work in small sizes. But an alternate version with the text next
    to the logomark would solve that."
  created: '2009-08-20 17:00:03'
- author:
    name: Marco
  body: "@neverblink/cslem... \r\n\r\nIm thinking more the  leaning towards the futura
    option, only with the type slightly smaller... Next up is color. I know it has
    to be yellow. I really like black and yellow for this type of form/identity.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Afbeelding6_6100.png]\r\n\r\nAlso,
    I have another idea I want to present to the client (on monday we will have our
    first meeting and I will show her above option and below). I am wondering on your
    opinions on this direction also. Thanks alot so far... Fire away:)\r\n\r\n [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Afbeelding2_6064.png]"
  created: '2009-08-21 22:20:02'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "The alternative is certainly very unique. I am not sold on the details of
    its execution, but the concept of stretching a letter over a 3D surface and then
    dropping the 3D is rich and original. \r\n\r\nPS. Perhaps keep the plane edges
    in B/W version ?"
  created: '2009-08-22 01:40:27'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "The logo prior to the current one design reads: \u201Cschool house, church,
    art supply, education\u201D."
  created: '2009-08-22 02:06:28'
- author:
    name: Marco
  body: "@ Super: Thanks! I see what you mean. I think the school/education link is
    problably the combunation of Futura and the simple shape. I think this is why
    I hesitated on Futura. going to try something to get away from that.\r\n\r\n@
    epsilicon: yes I liked this concept to, but still struggeling in execution. Maybe
    you can eleborate more what you don't like about the execution? Would be cool
    to do a font this way. \r\n\r\nThanks!"
  created: '2009-08-22 07:57:44'
- author:
    name: sandrosandro
    picture: 112363
  body: "Tried with all lowercase and it makes it more calmer, not so dark as mark
    itself.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/apello_6268.png]\r\n_\r\n\r\nSandro"
  created: '2009-08-24 14:34:01'
- author:
    name: Lefty
    picture: 117342
  body: i think that your 3d attempt logo is very unique. i love the middle ones with
    box and color. You can vary this theme to the infinite, this is very rich. for
    the BW version, i prefer the second one because i looks less randomly deformed.
  created: '2009-08-24 16:40:20'
- author:
    name: mucha
    picture: 117545
  body: I would agree that the 3D sketches are more unique compared to the "pencil-tip"
    design. As SuperUltraFabulous said, the pencil-tip gives off a "school-house"
    or "education" vibe. It seems to me that 3D mark connects better with the client's
    business which is <em>interior architecture</em> while avoiding that educational
    feeling. Just my two cents. Keep up the good work.
  created: '2009-08-24 16:56:55'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "Just an idea:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Appelo_4338.jpg]\r\n\r\npenn"
  created: '2009-08-24 18:00:53'
- author:
    name: Marco
  body: "Penn, That's great! I'm going to work on that. \r\nWill post more tomorrow!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-24 18:17:16'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "<em>@ epsilicon: Maybe you can eleborate more what you don\u2019t like about
    the execution?</em>\r\n\r\nThe shape of the a doesn't look visually pleasing in
    B/W version. It looks crumbled and handicapped if you will. That's why I mentioned
    keeping the axis lines, to add a visual aid and assist in deciphering the shape."
  created: '2009-08-24 18:49:02'
- author:
    name: Marco
  body: '@epsilicon: I''m still working on the B/W version. I really like the concept,
    but its not working (yet) in B/W...[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Afbeelding7_6405.png]'
  created: '2009-08-25 20:06:39'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "What if you use 3 full copies of 'a', one per plane, and paint the parts
    that are (currently) invisible in a lighter color ? .. it will probably look like
    a royal mess, but there's a small chance it will look interesting :) \r\n\r\nAlso
    perhaps use just two planes instead of three to simplify the shape a bit ?"
  created: '2009-08-25 22:46:37'
- body: "I like the concept, it's much more exciting than the pencil house. \r\n\r\nHowever,
    it needs some tonality to work. Right now, it looks more melted than folded."
  created: '2009-08-26 03:53:52'
- author:
    name: Marco
  body: "A small update. I think this is really working quite well.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Afbeelding5_6360.png]"
  created: '2009-08-26 10:24:21'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Okay I\u2019m really digging the Helvetica usage... you\u2019re instantly
    going upscale.\r\n\r\nContinue to make variations with the \u201Ca\u201D. The
    metaphor is still not readily understood."
  created: '2009-08-26 10:55:23'
- author:
    name: cslem1
  body: "I don't know, I'm not feeling the \"a\" idea...as a logo. Also, red? really?
    There are a million colors out there, and red? I would think further. I will agree
    that it is better idea than the pencil house...but throwing away that concept
    because a shiny new car rode into town isn't always the answer.\r\n\r\ncourtney"
  created: '2009-08-26 15:39:57'
- author:
    name: picard102
    picture: 112137
  body: Love the new concept. I agree though that the shaping or formatting of the
    distortions could use some work. Much nicer then the pencil concept previously.
  created: '2009-08-26 23:04:57'
- author:
    name: Ed_Aranda
    picture: 117416
  body: What's wrong with red?
  created: '2009-08-26 23:52:55'
- body: "Nothing is wrong with red. At all.\r\n\r\nRed works better than the black,
    but I think charcoal gray or a dark, grassy green might be more architect-ish.
    The shadows are lost on black, and this ruins the 3D effect.\r\n\r\nI also think
    it needs significant tweaking, starting with making the north/south seam straight.
    The room is tilting left. I'd also position the a so the seam between the floor
    and the left wall doesn't appear to swallow a (missing) serif. "
  created: '2009-08-26 23:54:34'
- author:
    name: Ed_Aranda
    picture: 117416
  body: "I agree about the tilting axis. Something also seems a bit off to me about
    the entire top portion of the a. Maybe redraw it so that it extends further out
    onto the \u201Cwall\u201D and doesn\u2019t curl into itself at that funky angle."
  created: '2009-08-27 00:43:56'
- author:
    name: cslem1
  body: "I'm just saying that there are a MILLION different colors out there, and
    I recommend playing around a bit before settling. Also, in black and white, it
    will all look black, giving it no contrast...meaning it will probably look very
    heavy. That's all I was saying about red.\r\n\r\ncourtney"
  created: '2009-08-27 01:33:49'
- author:
    name: Marco
  body: "Hi everybody, \r\n\r\nI'm very grateful for all your help! Here are the 'final
    concepts' I'm going to show the client later today. Final concepts, meaning that
    after she chooses one over the other, I can tweak the design with more focus.
    I've eliminated color, which will come later on, to let her choose solely on concept.
    \r\n\r\n@Ed/Alaskan/Picard: Thanks for the vote of confidence, I too like the
    3d concept better, but it's just a little 'unconventional'. I will be tweaking
    the form, and try more variations. Alaskan, good call on the axis-thing. I've
    attached a variation on the perspective which I think would be stronger, and communicate
    the idea better.\r\n\r\n@Courtney: I really appreciate your input. I'm not letting
    go the pencil yet... :)\r\n\r\nFire away! (sorry for the bigger images)\r\n\r\nconcept
    1:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/concept1a_5253.png][img:sites/default/files/old-images/concept1b_6672.png]\r\n\r\n\r\nconcept2:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/concept2a_4763.png][img:sites/default/files/old-images/concept2b_5227.png]"
  created: '2009-08-27 06:57:35'
- author:
    name: cslem1
  body: "Ok, so it's kind of sad that it took this long to bring up this topic...but...what
    does everyone think about correlation? Is there too much detachment between the
    symbol and name? I like the very first one out of the bunch just because it is
    neither a pencil nor a house, it's both! and that's visual wit. On the other side,
    I fine myself asking \"Would anyone else get that?\" And the name doesn't help.
    Then I find myself asking \"What is the company even about?\" and that's bad.
    Any ideas?\r\n\r\nPS Great job btw, the hard work is paying off, it's getting
    much better :)\r\n\r\ncourtney"
  created: '2009-08-27 08:48:20'
- author:
    name: sandrosandro
    picture: 112363
  body: "Concept 2 is just trash. It's realisation is miles away from first concept.
    Think of black and white application, especially printing without shadows etc.
    In concept 1 you are making same mistakes as before, you have still too big mark
    in relation to type.\r\n_\r\n\r\nSandro"
  created: '2009-08-27 10:46:38'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: '...speak politely please..'
  created: '2009-08-27 11:30:37'
- author:
    name: David Ford
    picture: 115355
  body: "In terms of the issues that need to be solved, the second option reminds
    me a bit of the recent city of melbourne rebrand (which i initially wasn't sure
    about but it has definately grown on me).\r\nhttp://www.underconsideration.com/brandnew/archives/pieces_of_melbourne.php\r\n\r\nEdit:\r\nSome
    of the architectural inspiration behind it...\r\nhttp://images.google.com.au/images?q=Melbourne+Theater+Company\r\nhttp://images.google.com.au/images?q=federation%20square"
  created: '2009-08-27 13:19:14'
- author:
    name: sandrosandro
    picture: 112363
  body: "@Mik&Marco: Didn't have intention to be impolite.\r\n_\r\n\r\nSandro"
  created: '2009-08-27 13:31:25'
- author:
    name: picard102
    picture: 112137
  body: Try some different perspectives on the angles. Maybe something closer to the
    "floor".
  created: '2009-08-27 18:26:40'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "To me, the first concepts are about designing exteriors and the second interiors.
    Have you tried wrapping the little a around the outside of the house? Just a thought.\r\n\r\nSharon"
  created: '2009-08-27 18:29:56'
- author:
    name: Marco
  body: "@ Sharon: she does both (interiror and ex.) I don't understand your suggestion,
    do you mean top concept with a house as inner shape.\r\n@picard: will work on
    that!\r\n@ Sandro, no harm here, appreciate the feedback > I know the mark is
    still to big. But I wanted to get the feedback of the client before going further
    (that's also why it's helvetica).\r\n\r\nTo All: really appreciate all feedback.
    I really have the feeling that idea 1 is conceptually  better, but idea 2 is visually
    more exciting... \r\n\r\nAbout the name: I understand the feeling of wanting to
    know what 'studio A' does, that's why I came up with idea 1. "
  created: '2009-08-27 19:15:57'
- author:
    name: Marco
  body: '@ Sharon: I think you mean like this? (one of the prior sketches I did)..?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/concept1c_6598.png]'
  created: '2009-08-27 20:57:40'
- author:
    name: sandrosandro
    picture: 112363
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ideen_6673.jpg]\r\n\r\nTry to apply letter
    A into the shadow. \r\n\r\nThis latest sketch(relating to Sharon's post) is over-designed.\r\n_\r\n\r\nSandro"
  created: '2009-08-27 21:56:35'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "No, I meant the little a wrapped around the exterior the same way you bent
    it around the interior, but it was just a thought.\r\n\r\nSharon\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-28 00:45:21'
- author:
    name: Simplicious
    picture: 117329
  body: "I definitely second Sharon Van Lieu. Wrapping the 'a' around the exterior
    offers you some new possibilities to let the mark comunicate expansion instead
    of contraction.\r\n\r\nRegarding to concept 1 the mark looks best to me in those
    two versions although I'm not sure about the combination of mark and text and
    about the typographiy in special case. The icon is very generic in this versions
    and displays an 'A', a pencil and a house all at once. There is not too much special
    about it (which I really like) and so maybe the typography needs to be emphasized
    a bit more because I think that many people who don't know the story aren't instantly
    able to translate the meaning of the icon properly and just see it as some kind
    of geometrical shapes and then it would be nice to have a more 'special' typography.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/studio_appelo_6115.jpg]"
  created: '2009-08-28 16:32:07'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "Marco, I really liked some of the ideas you had with taking the mark to something
    a bit more 3d, what if you added a few elements to emphasize that depth bit more
    and took down the point of the pencil to give it a bit more of a roof shape? something
    like this, a quickie photoshop job on one of your sketches from above:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/applelo3d_5328.gif]"
  created: '2009-08-28 16:45:45'
- author:
    name: RalphSaunders
  body: "My two cents.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/studio appelo_6138.png]"
  created: '2009-09-15 23:47:55'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: ahhh kill the red. MITSUBISHI
  created: '2009-09-16 03:08:10'
- author:
    name: cslem1
  body: "@RalphSaunders \r\n\r\nReminds me of the pyramid on the dollar. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1018963718_85c5050c8d_6453.jpg]\r\n\r\nCourtney"
  created: '2009-09-18 04:06:19'
- author:
    name: cslem1
  body: "Do we get to see an update? I'd love to see the new an improved logo!\r\n\r\nCourtney"
  created: '2009-09-18 04:08:33'
- author:
    name: RalphSaunders
  body: 'Yeah it does kinda look like the pyramid on the dollar. '
  created: '2009-09-19 16:43:03'
- author:
    name: Bezier Abuser
    picture: 113727
  body: "Ralph's reminds me of the Angelini logo\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1178794050_angelini_520_5017.jpg]\r\nand
    i like the one chrisfig made! even if the roof is a little bit... strange.\r\nHave
    you tried to make an A out of a cube? It's... solid."
  created: '2009-09-23 23:51:43'
date: '2009-08-11 19:32:10'
node_type: forum
title: Architect logo > updated

---
