---
author:
  name: inkaxr
body: "Hello,\r\ni would like to give my students the digital version of '7 champions
  of typography', the essay by daniel updike, to set in book form as an assignment.
  this is the first time i will be teaching! if anyone knows how i can get this, i
  would be most greatful.\r\nthanks and regards,\r\ninka"
comments:
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: "If your local library doesn't have it (and can't get it for you), you could
    buy it off Amazon, though at $72 for 18 pages it's certainly not cheap: http://www.amazon.com/Champions-Typography-Daniel-Berkeley-Updike/dp/B0027OIR9S/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1250187666&sr=8-1.\r\n\r\nOn
    another note, I've never heard of this text; do you happen to know who the seven
    champions are?"
  created: '2009-08-13 19:23:24'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: Do you have a hard copy of the essay? If it's only 18 pages, it probably won't
    take very long to re-key it, especially since DBU liked big type and generous
    leading.
  created: '2009-08-13 22:58:59'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Reed \u2014 the seven champions aren't <em>Who</em>s.\r\n\r\n\"When I entitled
    this paper The Seven Champions of Typography I had in mind (being a lay person)
    the seven champions of Christendom, the seven wonders of the world, the seven
    seas, stars, deadly sins, liberal arts, and some other 'sevens.' But on counting
    up my champions, I was disconcerted to discover that there were but six [. . .].
    So I propose to make my title good by adding to six Champions of Typography \u2014
    Spacing, Leading, Indentation, Ink, Paper, and Imposition \u2014 one more \u2014
    the most important of all, without which (as is alleged of charity) the rest profiteth
    nothing. That Seventh Champion, dear Reader, is <em>You.</em> And it all depends
    on how seriously you take the following pages, whether my title turns out to be
    truth or falsehood! I assume for it no further responsibility.\"\r\n\r\nAnd No,
    sorry Inka, I won't key in the whole essay for you. Perhaps you could assign the
    task to one of your students for extra credit. "
  created: '2009-08-14 01:20:17'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: 'BTW, the essay is included in [[http://www.amazon.com/Well-Made-Book-Lectures-Berkeley/dp/097156874X/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1250209541&sr=1-1|The
    Well-Made Book: Essays & Lectures by Daniel Berkeley Updike]], which you might
    be able to find for less than the $72 quoted above.'
  created: '2009-08-14 01:30:43'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "You can get in electronic format <a href=\"http://www.questia.com/read/898347?title=In%20the%20Day's%20Work%20(1924)%20(%22The%20Seven%20Champions%20of%20Typography%22%20begins%20on%20p.%2051)#\">here</a>,
    page 51 of \"In the Day's Work\", 1924.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-14 02:07:56'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: A-ha! Thanks for the clarification, Kent.
  created: '2009-08-14 02:49:31'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "With the quote provided by Kent, I was able to track down this page:\r\nhttp://www2.hawaii.edu/~shenley/updiketext.html"
  created: '2009-08-14 06:47:18'
- author:
    name: inkaxr
  body: goodness! wonderful! thank you.... very much!
  created: '2009-08-14 18:31:08'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "and not one word uttered about respecting copyright?\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-14 22:09:14'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: 'That''s unsung hero #8 -- just didn''t make it into the list.'
  created: '2009-08-15 00:11:26'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "This is an exercise for students Bowerbird. They are not looking to publish
    for profit.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-08-15 02:46:06'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "D.B. Updike (1860-1941), In the Day's Work, Harvard University Press, 1924.\r\n\r\nNot
    to mention that this work might already be in the public domain.\r\nhttp://www.copyright.gov/title17/92chap3.html#304"
  created: '2009-08-15 09:41:02'
- author:
    name: inkaxr
  body: "of course this is only for educational purposes! i hope that there is no
    problem with that. and, unless the copyright was extended or renewed, yes it could
    be in the public domain. thanks for the link, paragraph. \r\nand thanks again
    for the help, others....\r\ninka"
  created: '2009-08-15 12:20:33'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "typerror said:\r\n>   This is an exercise for students Bowerbird. \r\n>   They
    are not looking to publish for profit.\r\n\r\nparagraph said:\r\n>   Not to mention
    that this work \r\n>   might already be in the public domain.\r\n\r\ni don't wish
    to get into a discussion about copyright.\r\n\r\n(i don't get the impression either
    of you know enough\r\nabout the topic for me to engage you productively, but\r\nif
    you want me to try, just let me know, and i'll do a bit.)\r\n\r\ni was merely
    pointing out that when someone comes here\r\nand talks about copying a font, everyone
    assumes the worst\r\nand jumps all over them with a copyright infringement lecture.\r\n\r\nyet
    when someone comes here and wants a copy of some text,\r\neverybody is very accommodating,
    and gives them no lecture...\r\nheck, you'll google it for them, and even offer
    to do o.c.r. on it.\r\n\r\ni have a single standard -- i don't care in either
    situation, and\r\nwouldn't get tied in a knot even if it were my font or my text
    --\r\nbut i do get a chuckle out of the double standard that exists here.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-16 20:59:01'
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: '"I would like to give my students" this is a dead giveaway that the doctrine
    of "fair use" applies to this issue. Copying for educational purposes is covered
    by different standards than regular copyright.'
  created: '2009-08-17 00:35:27'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "bojev said:\r\n>   I would like to give my students\u201D \r\n>   this is
    a dead giveaway that \r\n>   the doctrine of \u201Cfair use\u201D applies to this
    issue. \r\n\r\n[sigh]\r\n\r\nfirst of all, nothing is that cut-and-dried with
    copyright.\r\n\r\n\"fair use\" can be used as a _defense_ in court, certainly,\r\nbut
    the criteria are multifaceted, and it's up to a judge...\r\n\r\nfurther, some
    of the _other_ criteria would _not_ be met\r\nin this case -- e.g., the essay
    is being used in toto --\r\nconsiderations which complicate the issue substantially.\r\n\r\nthe
    fact that the property is being actively commercialized,\r\nas represented by
    its presence on amazon, is also relevant.\r\n\r\nplus it is telling that the content
    is applicable to the class;\r\nif it was a piece on physics, or fortune-telling,
    or football,\r\nand thus inapplicable to the coursework, that'd be different.\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  Copying for educational purposes is covered\r\n>   by different standards than
    regular copyright.\r\n\r\ni don't believe a lawyer would put it in exactly that
    manner...\r\nthen again, i'm not a lawyer, so i can't say.  are you a lawyer?\r\n\r\nbut
    educational institutions still have to respect copyright...\r\n\r\ni'll bet you
    dollars to donuts that if inka ran this question by\r\nthe school lawyers, they
    would advise against using the text,\r\nprecisely because landing in court is
    the last thing they want.\r\n\r\nthe problem with copyright in this computer day-and-age\r\nis
    that real people have to waste their real time and energy\r\nbeing concerned about
    penny-ante crap questions like this.\r\n\r\n(i originally wanted to say \"mickey-mouse
    crap questions\",\r\nbut that would've been a freudian slip of major proportions.)\r\n\r\nat
    any rate, i remind people that i don't care what inka does;\r\ni was pointing
    out the double-standard here on copyright...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-17 03:24:02'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "<em>real people have to waste their real time and energy</em>\r\n\r\nReal
    people have real names and identities. Go away."
  created: '2009-08-17 06:53:48'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@paragraph and all:\r\n\r\nAs I started reading this thread, as I progressed,
    my reaction was exactly the same as bowerbird's.\r\n\r\nIncidentally, some moons
    ago I asked BB what his real name was, and was told, \"bowerbird\".\r\nHey, if
    Wavy Gravy's name is Wavy Gravy what do I care?\r\n\r\nAnyway, bowerbird is a
    keen observer. We disagree on many things, but go away? No.\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2009-08-17 18:48:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Design students should write their own texts.\r\n\r\nThat would kill two
    birds (sorry, BB!) with one stone, as literacy is a useful skill for designers
    to have.\r\n\r\nHowever, if a common text is required, perhaps the teacher could
    write it, or each student could contribute one champion."
  created: '2009-08-17 19:09:54'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: 'It is also possible to use texts that are in the public domain. Some generous
    people have worked to make them available. Have a look at the link http://z-m-l.com/ '
  created: '2009-08-17 20:23:17'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "michel boyer said:\r\n>   It is also possible to use texts that are in the
    public domain. \r\n>   Some generous people have worked to make them available.
    \r\n>   Have a look at the link http://z-m-l.com/\r\n\r\nexcept the texts at z-m-l.com
    are just \r\nreworked e-texts from project gutenberg.\r\ni suggest you go to the
    source, where there \r\nare thousands more than at z-m-l.com.\r\n\r\n>   http://gutenberg.org\r\n\r\nmore
    to the point here, most digitization of project gutenberg \r\ne-texts these days
    is being done by \"distributed proofreaders\",\r\na collaborative system that
    allows collaboration on digitization.\r\n\r\n(and, in the process, wastes lots
    of the time and energy of its\r\ngenerous volunteers due to a workflow that is
    byzantine, but\r\nhey, let's not let that stand in the way for the time being,
    ok?)\r\n\r\n>   http://pgdp.net\r\n\r\nas people have noted here, this essay in
    question _might_\r\nbe in the public-domain.  it's extremely unclear, since it
    was\r\npublished in 1924, just missing the pre-1923 cutoff which\r\nwould ensure
    that it was public-domain.  but if it hasn't had\r\nits copyright renewed, it
    would indeed now be public domain.\r\n\r\nthus, if you can get someone at distributed
    proofreaders to\r\ndevelop an interest in the essay, they would do the gruntwork\r\nof
    seeing if it can be cleared, plus they would do the work of\r\nactually digitizing
    it.  it might take them a while -- years? --\r\nsince they are badly backlogged,
    but it could happen faster...\r\nno matter how long it takes, if it is public
    domain, you would\r\nhave comfort that project gutenberg is willing to take the
    heat\r\nfor making that decision (and defending it in court, if need be),\r\nso
    that you could proceed without fear of litigation in the future.\r\n\r\nagain,
    i think inka should just go ahead and proceed with using it,\r\nas the odds that
    anyone will clamp down on them are very slight...\r\ni was just remarking about
    the double-standard here on copyright.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\np.s.  and again,
    it's stupid that the law creates this field of obstacles.\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-17 21:39:07'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/12/technology/internet/12digital.html
  created: '2009-08-18 12:27:50'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "I still see no double standards at work here. Anyway, the text in question
    is officially public domain here in Oz:\r\nhttp://catalogue.nla.gov.au/Record/2424809/Copyright?&#copyright\r\n\r\nWhen
    the type designers on this forum* complain about copyright infringements they
    are still alive and kicking (not dead for more than 50 years), trying to earn
    a crust by designing typefaces, and bowerbird gleefully reminds them of their
    impotence to stop said infringements. And lo and behold he now emerges to defend
    text copyright, and spots double standards at the same time. Please give me a
    break, the creature is a troll.\r\n\r\n*Typophile\u2014a forum dedicated to type,
    eh?"
  created: '2009-08-18 14:52:24'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "if inka lives in australia, then the \"problem\" is probably solved!\r\n(project
    gutenberg has an australian contingent which will do\r\nthe books that're in the
    public domain there but not in the u.s.)\r\n\r\ni'm not \"defending\" -- or challenging
    -- any kind of copyright...\r\n\r\nmy tuning fork resonates most strongly to proudhon's
    assertion\r\n-- \"property is theft\" -- and \"intellectual\" property is very
    sticky,\r\nsince you can light a thousand candles from your own candle and\r\nit
    still remains lit, so what have you lost?  our entire species is a\r\ntestament
    to the value of sharing wisdom, and now some people\r\nwant to put a toll-station
    on _their_ output and make us all pay.\r\n\r\nand i'm most certainly not \"gleeful\"
    when i remind you of your\r\nimpotence to stop \"infringements\" of your little
    legal licenses...\r\ni'm just relating the facts.  there's nothing to be \"gleeful\"
    about.\r\n\r\nif inka would've just found the text and used it in the class, then\r\nthe
    odds that anyone would have found out would've been small.\r\nof course, once
    you announce something like this on the internet,\r\nyou've broadcast it to the
    world, and google can track it easily, but\r\nif it weren't for that, the owners
    of this \"intellectual property\" would\r\nhave been quite impotent in terms of
    detecting this \"illegal\" usage.\r\n\r\nso, mr. paragraph, if you can't see the
    double standard i point out,\r\nyou are blind, and probably willfully so.  so
    much for your insults...\r\nbut it's quite interesting to see how much effort
    you will expend to\r\nmisrepresent my position and misinterpret my motivation,
    all while\r\ndoing absolutely nothing to add any substance to the topic at hand.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-18 21:08:46'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Would you kindly check the topic at hand again? I was your remark (as usual)
    that derailed the discussion, not mine.
  created: '2009-08-18 23:50:00'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "OK, let me get this straight. It's OK to steal this guy Updike's stuff because
    he's dead. And anyway, it would be OK because it's educational. (This is cool,
    because all text is educational, isn't it?)\r\nLook, inka found where to get the
    essay. (What kind of name is inka?)\r\nSo this thread is up for grabs.\r\nAhoy,
    mateys!\r\n\r\nCheck this out - I'm going to do a blog post about it:\r\n\r\nThere's
    a font named Droid that was released under the Apache license. In other words,
    royalty free. (I'm sure BB knows about it - comes with the Android SDK.)\r\nNow,
    it seems Ascender was involved in creating it and has it on their web site and
    wants $90 for the three serif Droid fonts that I just downloaded for free. (Another
    $90.00 for the sans that I also got free.)\r\nWhat's the frackin' $180.00 for?\r\nThis
    gives me an idea, though. I'll become a free font vendor myself and see who's
    stupid enough to pay me. Why not? Justify the price as a \"download cost\". A
    service fee.\r\n\r\nOh, what a tangled web we weave.\r\n\r\nAs Supreme Court Justice
    Thurgood Marshall put it - \"It all depends on whose ox is being gored, doesn't
    it?\""
  created: '2009-08-19 01:56:39'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Sorry, got it wrong, there's an italic bold, too.\r\nAscender wants 120.00
    for the Serif set alone.\r\n\r\nThe more I look into this, the smellier it gets...\r\n\r\nIt
    seems what Ascender did was add some glyphs, rename the thing Droid Pro and make
    it an OTF.\r\n\r\nBut can't anyone do this under the open-source license?\r\nEverybody
    should get in on this racket, really."
  created: '2009-08-19 02:26:12'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Mr. Fink, no one has been advocating stealing anything. Both my posts contained
    links, the first one to the relevant US law on the US government website, the
    latter one to National Library of Australia, which is run by the federal government
    here. The bit about being dead is actually part of the duration of copyright definitions
    worldwide, roughly 50-70 years after the creators death. Why don't you have a
    read about copyright instead of quoting justices out of context?
  created: '2009-08-19 02:33:27'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "paragraph said:\r\n>   Would you kindly check the topic at hand again?\r\n\r\nthe
    topic at hand is someone wanted a copy of something...\r\n\r\nsurely, when someone
    wants a copy of something, it can't be\r\noff-topic to bring up the legality of
    obtaining a copy, can it?,\r\nbecause that happens often when the \"something\"
    is a font...\r\n\r\n(in fact, it's precisely because it happens so often in that
    case\r\nthat it was striking that there was not a peep in this thread.)\r\n\r\nso
    once again, your comment adds nothing to the thread, jan.\r\n\r\nmoreover, if
    i did ever want to derail a thread, i could be very\r\nconfident that -- due to
    your personal vendetta against me --\r\nyou'd help me do such derailing by responding
    so fervently to \r\nmy posts, each and every one of 'em.  mission accomplished!\r\n\r\ni
    don't get it.  why am i so important to you, mr. schmoeger?\r\nand don't you realize
    your vendetta makes you look petty?,\r\neven to people here who might be your
    friends?  puzzling...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-19 03:56:06'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "paragraph said:\r\n>   Both my posts contained links, the first one to \r\n>
    \  the relevant US law on the US government website, \r\n\r\nthat first link didn't
    address the question at hand.\r\n(or, if it did, please cite the particular paragraphs.)\r\nas
    i said, given a _1924_ publication date, the only\r\nsafe assumption is that it's
    still under u.s. copyright.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   the latter one to National Library
    of Australia, \r\n>   which is run by the federal government here.\r\n\r\nthe
    second link didn't address the question either,\r\nunless inka happens to be located
    in australia...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\np.s.  i certainly hope inka is planning
    to proceed...\r\n\r\np.p.s.  even if the copyright was renewed, this book\r\nmight
    be an orphan, in which case google will free it,\r\nat least if google books gets
    its \"settlement\" approved,\r\nin which case you will be able to purchase it
    from google.\r\nof course, we can also assume that google will sniff out\r\nall
    the \"illegal\" copies -- google knows where they are! --\r\nand shut them down,
    so as to protect their \"investment\"...\r\nso if you want a copy of that essay,
    you should get it now!\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-19 04:10:04'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: "Most educational institutions handle the copyright clearance for the instructor.
    They can tell you if you require permission and if so, how much it'll cost the
    students (sometimes pennies, sometimes more).\r\n\r\nIf the text you're looking
    for is too expensive, have your students set some of bowerbird's posts (it's not
    in English, but it'll be a challenge)."
  created: '2009-08-19 14:45:04'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@paragraph\r\n\r\nRelax, man. I'm a sinner and a hypocrite just like everybody
    at times. (And Mr. Fink is my father, he's in a nursing home, call me Rich).\r\nIt's
    the nature of the world we live in today. All I hear you advocating is living
    life, sharing information with other people. The problem we've all got is that
    we can't help but break the law when we do that. At least technically.\r\nThis
    is a bad situation. IP law has a long history and it's sanctioned by the US Constition.
    I don't have enough years left to see a resolution of this in the legislatures
    or the courts.\r\nBut the maxim, \"You can't sue everybody\", surely holds.\r\nAnd
    in some cases I would advocate civil disobedience.\r\nBut I can't tell you when
    I would advocate that lest I be accused of contributory infringement. (hah!)\r\n\r\nBTW,
    Thurgood Marshall wasn't talking about copyright, I just liked the phrase which
    was most surely not original with him. You're somewhat correct, I should have
    made that clear. Marshall also used to say, \"Hey, Chiefy Baby!\" when passing
    Chief Justice Warren Berger in the hall - because he knew it would make him squirm
    a little.\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2009-08-19 14:53:54'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Thanks, Rich. Best wishes to Mr. Fink. :)
  created: '2009-08-19 15:47:30'
date: '2009-08-13 19:01:47'
node_type: forum
title: 7 champions of typography essay by daniel updike in digital format?

---
