---
author:
  name: Sindre
  picture: 116197
body: "Dear fellow typophiles,\r\n\r\nCriticising Ben Mitchell's great [[http://typophile.com/node/60805|Eternal
  Italic]] made me realise how little knowledge I have of italics. For some reason,
  I've never been very fond of them. Even for calligraphy, I've always preferred upright
  romans. Probably something genetic. \r\n\r\nSo I thought it was time to put a little
  ink to that white spot on my typographical mind map. (Not literally. All my typefaces
  start with mouse in hand and no clear idea. I've found that construction by improvisation
  is the best method for me.)\r\n\r\nSo here is a rough draft of my first attempt
  at an italic. Simultaneously, I drew a roman companion, based on a few glyphs I
  made earlier this summer. Of course, I think the roman is vastly superior to the
  italic. I really need criticism and help. \r\n\r\nAlthough the roman is rather Didone
  in stress (but transitional in detail), I've made its italic with a slant of only
  10 degrees, just to make things a little easier. (And I must say I find extreme
  italic slant rather unappealing.) The capitals are even more upright, at approximately
  seven degrees. They are also deliberately much less italicised than the lower case,
  I want them to work in all cap settings. Perhaps I'll make some alternate caps later.\r\n\r\nThis
  definitely does not mean that I've abandoned work on [[http://typophile.com/node/59004|Ethos]].
  (But perhaps I've abandoned [[http://typophile.com/node/56025|Schola]]. I don't
  know if I like it anymore.) I just need to do something else for a while. Drawing
  more than 3000 sans serif glyphs is a little ... tiring.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mondegreen1_5552.jpg]\r\n\r\nSo
  please, I need your help on these two creations. They're both unpolished, and ready
  to go in new directions. The name is but a [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mondegreen|joke]],
  but it's a nice name, I think.\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Sindre! Amazing. I'd need more time for a fuller crit. But just wanted to
    say I really like the color and proportions of the roman, its sturdy & stable
    and yet friendly feel \u2013 it feels both harmonious (\"reliable\") and fresh
    I think. Quite exciting!\r\n(I'm spontaneously very fond of the \"k\" and \"J\".)\r\n\r\nRegarding
    the italics, I don't know anywhere near enough about italics\u2026 so go find
    a saltmine ;-).  But just staring at these alphabets, my partly-educated eye wonders
    if your italic lowercase (so soft/brushy/playful!) is a bit separate from the
    rest of the family? It seems quite different from the roman in character; so I'd
    be curious to see it in text, especially to observe how roman & italic work together.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    that's a funny asterisk. Reminds me of flesh-eating plants, or something from
    a 70s scifi movie. :-)"
  created: '2009-08-18 12:35:09'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thanks, Nina! Your kind words are fuel for my work ethos. It's very cool
    that you dig k and J, as those are amongst my favourites, too, while I'm very
    unsure about g, Q and r. \r\n\r\nThese uneducated eyes also share your doubts
    about the italic/roman relationship. One can possibly think of them as Lady and
    Lord Mondegreen, married to each other of political and economical reasons rather
    than of love. I need to work a lot on the spacing (and some basic kerning) before
    they can set a text together, but as soon as possible, I'll upload some text settings.\r\n\r\nThat
    asterisk is the World's First Seven-pointed Asterisk\u2122. I really hope it'll
    work. (I just bought myself a glorious [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Venus_flytrap|Dion\xE6a
    muscipula]], by the way, which probably has inspired me on a subconscious level.) "
  created: '2009-08-18 16:28:27'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Gee, I got severely stuck by force of nature, or rather lack thereof. Therefore,
    just a quick mock-up, using Illustrator's optical spacing algorithm. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mondegreentext_4226.png]\r\n\r\nI
    think the roman/italic relationship <em>might</em> work, but I'm wondering if
    the italic needs a slighter x-height. What do you think, Typophiles?"
  created: '2009-08-18 21:42:09'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Oh my goodness!! \r\n\r\nFirst up. Thanks for the compliment! I'm thrilled
    my experimentation is so inspiring! Second. Don't give up on Schola. I was at
    a stage with Eternal where I'd gone off it for a bit, thinking it unresolveable
    as my first (bad) font. I just needed a rest from it, and making the italic after
    learning to see details gave me better ideas about proportions and density that
    I could retrofit back onto the roman.\r\n\r\nThirdly, I am vastly impressed with
    this lovely (fast!) work! Your asterisk looks like a mischievous little alien,
    in a good way, it put a smile on my face :D\r\n\r\nWe seem to have gotten ourselves
    a great little learners group going here! I'm finding it very exciting.\r\n\r\nThis
    is terribly interesting! The shapes you've made are so nice. Traps, cupping, serifs,
    contrast all look really good. I like the way I'm not sure whether to resolve
    it as Clarendon, Baskerville or Georgia, lovely. \r\n\r\nI'll start with the roman
    uppercase.\r\nA is very clever. I like the slight thorn on the top left, the trap
    in the counter and the crossbar.\r\nC: I'm not sure if the lower serif works for
    me. Ask other people.\r\nD: well done.\r\nG: May need more weight on the stem.\r\nJ:
    That kind of taper makes me happy.\r\nK, M, Q, R: Really neat shapes. In fact
    all the others are great too. Z may need bevelling on it's vertices.\r\n\r\nlowercase\r\nh,
    k and m may be a bit wide, I'd need to see text to be sure.\r\nr: heavier beak/bigger
    ball?\r\nt: I don't understand its top.\r\ny: can the tail be darker than the
    right arm? I think it looks a bit light below.\r\nz: see Z.\r\n\r\nItalic\r\nCaps\r\nThere's
    maybe some optical correction needed. For example the M has a darker downhill
    diagonal than the right side vertical, probably from slanting. Check the other
    downhill diagonals esp RSVWXY, I think they're a bit heavy.\r\nQ and Z could be
    more exotic given the lowercase dynamism. Maybe K and R too?\r\n\r\nlowercase\r\nReminds
    me of Dolly, but somehow more classical looking. It's funny I was reading the
    other day that the italic should harmonise with the roman, but can be a cousin
    rather than a sibling...and I wondered how far that could be pushed. Eternal has
    only a few common elements between the roman and italic, and I think it's more
    in the balance between soft/hard than in the actual shapes that form the glyphs.
    Your roman and italic are quite distant cousins in structure, tone and stylistic
    influence, I would say, but I'm liking the contrast. I think the two could be
    reconciled, or perhaps developed into one of those families that has varying degrees
    of brushy-cursiveness instead of the normal roman/bold/italic branches*. I think
    it'd definitely be worth exploring a more upright italic. (Lord and Lady, Count
    and Countess?) \r\n\r\n*check out \xC9milie Rigaud's Coline typeface on the [[http://www.typefacedesign.org/2009/|Reading
    students' MA submissions]] if you haven't already.\r\n\r\nI like the name Mondegreen!\r\n\r\nKeep
    up the great work :)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-20 00:32:09'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Sorry, forgot to look at the italic lowercase glyphs!\r\nOn the whole I like
    the darkness as often italics go a bit spindly. This is really difficult as I'm
    only just starting to see how italics work. I like the way you're sure of your
    contrast. dgkowz look like they work best. s looks a bit too sloped. I'm least
    sure about r and x: they look a bit too 'just so' for the flowiness of the other
    glyphs, with their ball terminals. Right side of y might be a bit cloggy? \r\nI'm
    afraid I need to study italics more to be of much use! :S Still it's interesting
    to try!\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-20 00:45:44'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thank you for yet another very helpful critique, Ben. And thank you for your
    praise of my typeface-in-progress. \r\n\r\nI have little time now, so I'll just
    upload this new pdf. You'll see that I have redrawn almost every glyph, following
    your suggestions and my own second thoughts. I've thrown out all the ball terminals
    from the italic lower case. Do you think this works better? \r\n\r\nSome of the
    new glyphs are a little rough around the edges, I've spent too little time on
    this.\r\n\r\nI'll get back to your critique a little later, I have to spend an
    hour or two away from my laptop now. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mondegreen2_5103.jpg]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-20 17:18:34'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Wow, this is already so developed. Exciting work.\r\n\r\nI have to say I'm
    not yet convinced that these italic minuscules can read as a family member with
    this roman. The broad-brush construction of those italics seems very at odds with
    the didone premise of the roman. The roman reminds me of Century (I consider that
    a compliment) so looking at its italics might be helpful for seeing what kind
    of matches are traditional. Of course I'm not saying you have to do what's been
    done before just because it's been done; but there's a real divide between broad-brush/broad-nibbed
    pen forms and engraved/split-nib pen forms, and I think straddling across that
    divide with one typeface family might be quite difficult. (Did this divide come
    up in that recent italics thread that Nina started?) \r\n\r\nThese alphabets are
    all very nice, so maybe you should reinvent a different italic for this roman
    and a different roman for this italic! Or maybe see it through and prove me wrong
    - I think this match looks improbable but it may not be impossible.\r\n\r\nSome
    smaller-scale reactions:\r\n\r\nOverall your proportions are sure and your drawing
    is handsome. \r\nI'm envious of the curves of all your S's.\r\nRoman g is particularly
    nice and roman j is very well done.\r\nDid you consider more substantially bracketing
    the serifs on your thins? (southwest of AMNX; northeast of KNUXY and perhaps roman
    kvwxy)\r\nDescenders of italic p and q are wonderful.\r\nTail of roman and italic
    Q may be a bit too black.\r\nTop of roman c overhangs. Perhaps italic c, too,
    though I always find that letter difficult to judge.\r\nThin stroke of roman Xx
    and italic X looks unaligned and rather spindly, especially at the bottom.\r\nBowl
    coming into the stem at bottom of roman p looks weak. Perhaps same thing at top
    intersection of roman b and d.\r\nMaybe lower the crossbars of roman and italic
    F's.\r\nItalic s looks upside down.\r\nCan the whites eat a little more into the
    center of the asterisk - it looks quite a bit too dark relative to the arms.\r\nRoman
    and italic C and italic G: lower serif looks broken off.\r\nYou could extend the
    right side of P's lower serif for balance's sake.\r\nI would make the terminal
    serif at the top of your S's (and roman s) lower relative to the top curve. Similarly,
    the top of q's stem could be lowered relative to the top of its bowl.\r\n\r\nHope
    that helps."
  created: '2009-08-20 18:24:45'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'Maybe what you have here is Schola Italic! '
  created: '2009-08-20 18:49:35'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "<em>Maybe what you have here is Schola Italic!</em>\r\n\r\nMy thoughts exactly!
    (after an hour of deep existential crisis). Of course, it has to be remade, but
    it'll be a good starting point. \r\n\r\nThank you very much for your thorough
    critique and your encouraging words, Craig. I hadn't thought of the similarity
    with Century (a typeface I too happen to like, but I seem to be unable to use
    it to good effect, for some reason. It's better in metal, I think), but you're
    right. In fact, this is the first time I've drawn glyphs without looking extensively
    at other typefaces, I just tried to draw letters the way I want them to look,
    to put it na\xEFvely. I agree with all your criticism, although I want roman c
    to overhang just a <em>little</em>, while e should \"underhang\" (er ... what's
    the word?) ever so slightly. I'll make it less visible. \r\n\r\nI happen to <em>like</em>
    that broken C serif, but since you and Ben both found it weird, I guess I'll have
    to do something about it. I'll try and strengthen the thins by increasing the
    brackets, as you suggested, but I think the difference should be subtle. \r\n\r\nBen,
    I changed the proportions of hkm on your suggestion, do you think I got it right?
    I also de-weirdified the top of the t, bevelled the zeds, darkened the y, fattened
    the r and the G.\r\n\r\nAnd yes, I dig Coline.\r\n\r\nTomorrow, I'll update Mondegreen
    Roman following Craig's suggestions, and start on the new italic. The old one
    is archived along with your comments. Schola Roman and Italic will be my next
    project, after I've <em>completed</em> Mondegreen. \r\n\r\nThanks again for your
    fantastic help and support, Craig and Ben!\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2009-08-20 21:54:06'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "These are the first few glyphs of the new Mondegreen Italic. Thanks again
    for steering me in the right direction, Nina, Craig and Ben. It was quite hard
    getting started, I had to look at a lot of italics, but mainly Century's. That
    was a very helpful suggestion, Craig. \r\n\r\nDo you think I'm on the right track?
    (I don't want to draw another dysfunctional companion for the roman.) \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mondegreen-ital1_6551.png]"
  created: '2009-08-21 17:56:21'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Right track, I think.\r\nYour slanted verticals break in and out of curves
    too suddenly (or, they are straight for too long). You need less of this: \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/6-plumbers-pipes-lg--gt_full_width_landscape_4401.jpg]\r\nand
    more of this:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/GarterSnake_5869.jpg]"
  created: '2009-08-21 20:31:43'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: 'Thanks! That''s a great way of putting it -- you should teach type design.
    I''ll inject some snake venom to the curves. '
  created: '2009-08-21 20:50:49'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>you should teach type design</em>\r\n\r\nI should probably finish a font
    first! ;-)"
  created: '2009-08-21 21:10:31'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Well, Jan Tschichold was a great teacher, and he didn't finish many fonts,
    did he? Most of his early attempts are even rather dreadful. \r\n\r\nIs this snaky
    enough, do you think?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mondegreen-ital2_3653.png]"
  created: '2009-08-21 22:15:05'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "That's an improvement!\r\n\r\nI had the hardest time building these kinds
    of strokes for Emi Italic, so I'm looking forward to learning from watching your
    process..."
  created: '2009-08-21 22:46:42'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "This is off the top of my head. I'd have to see it all in context to know.
    But, I wonder if there couldn't be some different rules in place to keep all three
    of those tails from being the same. I for instance. IF a curve leads into the
    tail then only x-length or IF tail follows a stem then y-length?\r\n\r\nI only
    say this because that sure creates quite a pattern. Won't that lead to too much
    sparkle?"
  created: '2009-08-21 23:59:37'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Yes, I've been thinking about that too, Tiffany, but I haven't quite figured
    out a solution yet. I think I will draw the entire lowercase with identical tails
    and top serifs, and modify them later. I fell a little like stumbling in the dark
    on this, it is quite different from anything I've drawn before. \r\n\r\nYour rule
    suggestion seems like a very sensible one, that's the first thing I'm going to
    try. Thank you very much!"
  created: '2009-08-22 00:10:42'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "<cite>[...] these kinds of strokes for Emi Italic</cite>\r\n\r\nI can't find
    that typeface by searching for it, was it up for critique here?"
  created: '2009-08-22 01:58:19'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Sindre, Craig's Emi is here: http://typophile.com/node/50618\r\n\r\nThis
    thread is highly interesting to follow!"
  created: '2009-08-22 02:03:42'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thanks, Nina. I'm looking forward to read it -- tomorrow. Some sleep are
    very needed now.\r\n\r\nHere's the result of tonight's work, 12 glyphs of the
    new Mondegreen Italic, alongside with their roman companions. This is hard, but
    fun. Am I getting closer?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mondegreen-ital3_5982.png]"
  created: '2009-08-22 02:38:24'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"Some sleep are very needed now.\"</cite>\r\nUh, oh. :->\r\n\r\n<cite>\"Am
    I getting closer?\"</cite>\r\nWell I'm not sure I have italic-fu, but I think
    this is sweet! And definitely a much closer relative of the roman now (whose controlled
    spikiness I admire BTW \u2013 that is one sweet \"b\")."
  created: '2009-08-22 03:15:37'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: You're on the right track, no question!
  created: '2009-08-22 04:07:57'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Latin glyphs suck! :)\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2009-08-22 06:32:27'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: I assume you mean that my <em>roman</em> letters are no good, as every glyph
    I've drawn so far is part of the Latin alphabet? Well, I guess I have to remake
    my romans as well, then.
  created: '2009-08-22 15:10:30'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I really like the first brush-like italics, but I agree with others that
    it didn't fit with the didone style of the roman. It feels more like something
    that belongs to a renaissance like serif typeface (in other words, keep it and
    use it for some other project!).\r\n\r\nThe italics in your last image and in
    the 'nilo' image are working much better. Regarding the last image, I think the
    right arch of the 'm' could be slightly wider, the 'h' might be a bit narrow (looks
    narrower than the 'n', should optically look the same I think). I also think the
    'p' needs something on the descender... a serif or something else. The 'r' might
    be slightly too wide, the ear is quite prominent...\r\n\r\nOh, and the romans
    don't suck at all."
  created: '2009-08-22 18:10:47'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thanks, Jelmar, I've followed your advice on h, m, and r. I want to avoid
    serifs on the p and q descenders, if at all possible, so I've strengthened and
    tapered them a little. \r\n\r\nI'm almost finished with the italic lower case
    now, only k, x and z missing. Will post a new pdf and png when finished, possibly
    tonight, if I manage to stay awake another hour or so.\r\n\r\nNina, thanks for
    your encouraging words! I've spiked a few italic glyphs too, but I'm afraid to
    overdo that aspect of this typeface. "
  created: '2009-08-22 19:46:06'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Sindre, did you happen to see the preview of John Hudson's Brill italics?\r\nPDF
    [[http://brill.nl/downloads/brillText.pdf|here]] (linked from [[http://typophile.com/node/61141|this
    thread]]. \r\nHe's matching more flowy italics to a transitional roman. "
  created: '2009-08-22 20:21:27'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Yes, I saw it. Very interesting indeed. But his romans and italics match
    much better than mine did. \r\n\r\nHere's an update, pdf and png. Please ignore
    upper case italics, I haven't done anything with them. Lower case italic x and
    z not drawn, I need a little break now.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mondegreen3_4012.png]"
  created: '2009-08-22 20:48:25'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "lowercase italics notes:\r\na, d, g, p, q - bottom thin of bowl looks bent
    (p is worst)\r\nb - very nice\r\nc, e - I rather like the small aperture. Does
    the tail straighten out too much at the end?\r\nf - took too much off the slant
    angle? I'd have to see it in a text setting to judge\r\ng, q - I like that spiky
    finial (is that the right word?). Reminds me of a certain Type ID Pop Quiz!\r\nh
    - right vertical looks too \"pipe\" ish\r\nj - descender looks pinched where curve
    starts\r\nk - might the right side of this be a bit overcomplex?\r\nm - second
    counter too narrow relative to first\r\no - quite nice \r\nr - stem gets awfully
    thin (true in roman too)\r\ns - charming. Something a little Ernestine-ish about
    it!\r\nt - looks like it leans forward?"
  created: '2009-08-22 21:46:40'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thank you very much, Craig! I believe you're right in everything you wrote,
    and will correct my drawings accordingly. I think I've become temporary type-blind,
    I have spent far too many hours gazing at beziers the last couple of weeks. Is
    it only me, or do all you type designers work nonstop for countless hours? This
    can't be healthy.\r\n\r\nAnyway, I'm really impressed by your Emi. (What's the
    story behind that name, by the way?) I haven't read the whole thread yet, but
    I will do. Your way of working is very different from mine (much more organised),
    I'm envious of your ability to quickly draw a bunch of alternates. I hope you'll
    find time to finish the typeface, this really needs to be published.  \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2009-08-22 22:06:37'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "You seem exhausted, Sindre. You might need to go outside [more often] and
    look at things that don't have letters on them :-)\r\nFWIW, I've found that taking
    complete breaks (in one case with Ernestine, as long as seven\u2013eight weeks)
    can be extremely beneficial in terms of \"seeing\" my own design again \u2013
    and then also having the energy again to jump into the work.\r\n\r\nAnd your roman
    glyphs don't suck :)"
  created: '2009-08-22 22:23:52'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "You're right, Nina. Thanks for taking care of me ;-)\r\nI haven't done much
    today, but after a long and refreshing walk in the woods, I drew those two missing
    basic italic glyphs. The z was a major headache, no idea if this one works. New
    pdf up top, with some text settings. Upper case italic is not finished at all,
    I'll redraw most of the letters. Rather leisurely.\r\n\r\nChanges in roman:\r\nNew
    r. That glyph is turning into a problem child. Is this new one any better?\r\n\r\nChanges
    in italic:\r\nc opened slightly up, softer and a little shorter tail\r\nadgpq
    bowls now has smoother join to stem\r\nAll descenders made a little shorter, they
    were a little too long compared to the roman \r\nAll (?) ball terminals fiddled
    with\r\nf slants more\r\nj straightened \r\nnew k (better?)\r\nadjusted m bowls\r\nnew
    r\r\ntaller and straighter t\r\nsome tweaking on v and w\r\nx and z drawn\r\n\r\nAnd
    that carnivorous retro-sci-fi inkblob thingy is slightly more eaten by white now.\r\n\r\nEDIT:
    I forgot to say that the spacing is still <em>very</em> basic, and kerning as
    good as nonexistent. "
  created: '2009-08-23 20:19:37'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "With that rounded sharp counter at the top of roman r, could it eat a bit
    into the stem, too? - compare the bottom intersection of roman p. I think that
    would rectify the thickening of the stem there and the slight pinchedness that
    remains with the arm. (BTW when I said \"stem\" in my last comment about your
    r's, I should have said \"arm\" :-\\).\r\n\r\nWith the shortened italic descenders,
    do the ball terminals (gjy) come up too high? (Otherwise j is improved.) g's bowl
    is somehow looking a touch too tall and narrow to my eyes now; perhaps q's too.\r\n\r\nI
    might take off a bit off the slant of italic y. Maybe italic g too? \r\n\r\nPerhaps
    k's new leg flares a little much for this font, but I think the concept is improved.\r\n\r\nI
    think italic t could be even taller.\r\n\r\nIs the kink in the left curves of
    italic v and w intended?\r\n\r\nItalic x has the right concept. I wonder if you
    can get a little more white into the small counters top and bottom, especially
    bottom (i.e. raising the highest point of that triangular counter).\r\n\r\nThat
    italic z is cool. It's maybe too black at the southwest, but maybe a little inktrap
    in that acute counter will suffice to lighten it. \r\n\r\nAmazing work, keep it
    up.\r\n\r\nThanks for your kind words and encouragement about Emi (which is named
    after my daughter). I'm certainly committed to finishing it, though I'm currently
    enjoying one of those hiatuses (hiati?) that Nina was preaching about. Ambicase
    has monopolized my FontLab time of late. When I get back to Emi I hope you will
    join the critics who have helped so much so far."
  created: '2009-08-24 02:00:08'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thanks again, Craig.\r\n\r\nI've done quite a lot of polishing on the italic.
    \r\n\r\nUpper case is now a proper upper case. I've maintained my initial idea
    of avoiding all swashiness, the only glyph to differ structurally from its roman
    counterpart is G, that spike just doesn't look good slanted. Curve compensation
    is darned hard, and italic verticals is even trickier to get right than roman
    verticals, I've now learnt. Please tear it apart.\r\n\r\nAll lower case thin stroke
    terminals are strengthened slightly. \r\nDescenders are made a little airier,
    and descending glyphs slightly uprighted. \r\ng bowl is wider and shorter.\r\nk
    is less flamboyant.\r\nmnh is a little smoother on the right side.\r\nr is redrawn:
    Shorter ink trap, more substantial arm, slightly higher ball.\r\nt now reaches
    towards the heavens.\r\nu is narrower and generally tweaked.\r\nvw is de-kinked.\r\nx
    is airier.\r\ny is narrower and slightly deslanted.\r\nz has a lighter bottom,
    and slightly shorter top.\r\n\r\n<cite>I hope you will join the critics who have
    helped so much so far.</cite>\r\nI will.\r\n\r\nNew pdf attached.\r\n\r\nSpacing
    still sucks, like my roman.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mondegreen-ital4_6248.png]"
  created: '2009-08-25 23:28:04'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "It's such a handsome glyph that I hate to say it, but, italic s: it's a bit
    of a misfit in context of your other italic letters. (Look at it in the word \"phrase\".)
    I think it's too tightly wound. Perhaps raise the top terminal and lower the bottom
    one?\r\n\r\nI think italic u now looks too narrow.\r\n\r\nitalic z may be wide.\r\n\r\nAdd
    the italic caps to your specimen! From the .png, the thins look very thin, esp.
    the diagonal ones (AVWX), relative to the other thinner parts of letters (and
    relative to the serifs, even).\r\n\r\nThe outer contour of the bowls of italic
    gqa looks a little deflated to me at the northwest? (Most noticeable in g)"
  created: '2009-08-25 23:46:15'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: Er, some upload problem. New pdf up top <em>now</em>.
  created: '2009-08-25 23:47:36'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "So wait, the new PDF is the one that looks like the image you just posted,
    just that one page? In that case there is no \"t\".\r\nI'd love to see it in text
    too; I'm suspecting some weight issues (for instance the \"a\" looks like it *might*
    be a hint too dark) but I for one can't tell for sure by staring at huge glyphs.\r\n\r\nSalt
    ready?\r\n\r\nI like that little pimple of a spur on the \"G\". (No, really, that
    sounded worse than intended!)\r\n\r\n\"W\"/\"V\"/\"A\" look too slanted to these
    eyes. Maybe a case for optical correction? But maybe a case for more sleep on
    this end.\r\n\r\n\"C\"'s curve looks like it's trying to resist the slant \u2013
    top of glyph looks wider than bottom.\r\n\r\nI'd move the foot of the \"K\" out,
    it looks a bit unstable. \"X\" too.\r\n\r\n\"R\"'s foot has a sudden brushiness
    that's not found anywhere else (or I can't see it). I'd make it harder, probably.\r\n\r\n\"j\"
    still rocks. \"k\" is very cool \u2013 I'll be curious to see how it behaves in
    text.\r\nAnd I'm envious of your \"s\"!\r\n\r\n\"f\" is very retro in its ornateness\u2026
    maybe a bit too emphatic, but that's also something to be looked at in context
    I guess.\r\n\r\nSpike on \"g\" is very sexy. And on the \"q\". \r\n\r\nI wasn't
    sure about the seriflessness of \"p\"/\"q\" descenders, but that light flare is
    great!\r\n\r\nThis is going to be a really really nice font. Absolutely keep it
    up! :)"
  created: '2009-08-26 00:06:41'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thanks, Nina. Yes, the italic caps obviously need more work. I think I'm
    starting to hate italic caps, they're just too hard to draw. And I don't even
    like them, those bastards (in the right sense of the word) are just not suited
    to italic slant. I agree with all your criticism. Will try and fix that blasted
    upper case tomorrow.\r\n\r\nI'm afraid I've already redrawn that s slightly, following
    Craig's advice. (For some reason, I don't find drawing s-es very difficult, I
    have greater trouble with those at the end of the alphabet. And ampersands, that's
    sheer murder.)\r\n\r\nI insist on serifless p and q, as I want my lower case to
    be a <em>pure</em> italic, z being the only half-exception. And while I agree
    that f is slightly over-the-top in its roccoco-tendencies, I really want to keep
    it more or less as is, as it's based on the design of the f-holes of my beloved
    double bass. \r\n\r\nI'll upload some new text-settings after I've worked more
    on the upper case, done some spacing, and some very basic kerning. \r\n\r\nThanks
    for liking my typeface! I'll definitely keep working on this till it's finished
    (if a typeface ever gets finished). "
  created: '2009-08-26 00:47:13'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Adjusted agq, wider u, looser s, first appearance of taller t, redrawn z.
    Thanks again, Craig! Your criticism is invaluable.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mondegreen-ital5_4291.png]"
  created: '2009-08-26 01:14:06'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Or is this z better? I've also cut a notch in the top of the a stem, addressing
    Nina's concern of that glyphs body weight.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pizazz_4411.png]"
  created: '2009-08-26 01:44:58'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"I insist on serifless p and q, as I want my lower case to be a pure
    italic\"</cite>\r\nSo where is it written that \"pure\" italics don't have terminals
    on \"p\" and \"q\"? \r\n(I'm not trying to be facetious \u2013 I'm curious where
    that comes from.)\r\n\r\n<cite>\"I really want to keep it more or less as is,
    as it\u2019s based on the design of the f-holes of my beloved double bass\"</cite>\r\nAh,
    now that you mention it, it does look like an f-hole. \r\nWell nothing against
    the f-holes of your beloved double bass, but I do hope you make that decision
    based on whether the \"f\" works within this particular font, or not. This is
    supposed to be a text font right? I don't guess your double bass would be all
    that happy if the \"f\" it inspired ends up tripping readers\u2026"
  created: '2009-08-26 09:05:49'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "<cite>So where is it written that \u201Cpure\u201D italics don\u2019t have
    terminals on \u201Cp\u201D and \u201Cq\u201D?</cite>\r\n\r\nAh, absolutely nowhere
    (that I'm aware of). What I meant, was that I don't want to introduce serifs unlike
    the other lower case terminal on these two descending glyphs only, just because
    that's the way it's normally done. I should never have used that adjective. \r\n\r\n<cite>I
    do hope you make that decision based on whether the \u201Cf\u201D works within
    this particular font</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's a piece of good advice. I realise I
    have a tendency to make things (not just typefaces) from the top to the bottom,
    by imposing strict or arbitrary rules on the matter, and then by force make it
    work (or convincing myself that it works). But then again, I think a \"f\" like
    this <em>could</em> work. Extensive text settings will answer that.\r\n\r\n<cite>[...]
    did I really say something about the weight of the \u201Cz\u201D?</cite>\r\n\r\nYou
    didn't. The sentence that led to your confusion should have read like this: <cite>I\u2019ve
    also cut a notch in the top of the \"a\" stem</cite>. From now on, I'll take up
    your good practice of putting glyph names in quotes.\r\n\r\nI was very tired (blasted
    insomnia!) when I wrote those last two comments, and my accuracy level obviously
    rather appalling."
  created: '2009-08-26 09:38:38'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Heh, I did realize briefly after posting that you were talking about the
    \"a\" and not the \"z\" \u2013 I had misread that. I hear you on the insomnia\u2026
    but yeah, quotes help.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"then again, I think a \u201Cf\u201D like
    this could work\"</cite>\r\nOh absolutely, I wasn't meaning to say it doesn't,
    just that it'll need testing. I'll be curious too."
  created: '2009-08-26 09:48:13'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Numerals for the roman, first draft. These are deliberately rather plain
    and unornamented, I'm not too fond of ball terminals on numerals, as Didones often
    have. Can they still work? \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mondegreen_numerals_3898.png]"
  created: '2009-08-27 01:20:18'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "As Nina rightly pointed out, \"R\" is slightly out of character. Here's a
    new one. I've tried to make a relation to the \"Q\" tail, and I made the bowl
    slightly smaller. Is this any good?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/query_3815.png]"
  created: '2009-08-27 15:03:00'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">Is this any good?\r\nI love it, very attractive. \r\n\r\nThe numerals: they're
    quite unexpected, which could be a good thing or not, I don't know. Could you
    set them in text so we can judge better? I think you could have a few slabs here
    and there, if you don't like balls?"
  created: '2009-08-27 15:09:59'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "On the figs, they are very handsome. It's be helpful to see a setting alongside
    text to judge their fitness. I'd probably wonder about three the most, it might
    look a little too contemporary somehow? Stem of one looks a bit too fat and six
    looks like it's overreaching. Zero is interesting, is that contrast pattern something
    you've seen before?\r\n\r\nThe whole leg of the new R might be pulled out a bit,
    but the concept works pretty well. "
  created: '2009-08-27 15:14:44'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thanks, guys!\r\n\r\nNumerals in context. I've slimmed down the \"1\" stem
    a little, is it too thin now? The \"6\" ascender is more modest now, and I've
    introduced the slightest hint of a curve to the \"7\" stem. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/numeralscontext_5746.png]\r\n\r\n<em>Zero
    is interesting, is that contrast pattern something you\u2019ve seen before?</em>\r\n\r\nEr,
    I thought so, but I can't find any other zeros looking quite like that. \r\n"
  created: '2009-08-27 17:13:29'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I like the numerals. \"7\" is pretty snazzy, I like the not-quite-reversed
    contrast. Agree with Craig the zero is interesting. I don't think I've seen such
    a zero before.\r\n\r\nOne thing I'm a bit confused about is the \"5\" \u2013 it's
    sexy, but it seems more oldstyle in its slimness/elegance than the other numerals,
    especially in contrast with the \"3\", which is very round/\"full-bodied\"/sturdy,
    like the \"8\" et al. Dunno, maybe it's just me.\r\nThe bottom-left of \"2\" looks
    a bit fragile, like the join in the \"3\" \u2013 maybe that thinnest point is
    a bit too thin/pointy, compared to your alphabetic glyphs?\r\n\r\n(BTW, I think
    the \"R\" is better now.)"
  created: '2009-08-27 17:37:26'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Oh yes, hybrids could be great for this! Like in <a href="http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/Miller/charset">Miller</a>?
  created: '2009-08-27 17:47:22'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Stylewise I think they'll work nicely. I wonder if they bounce around a bit
    too much - you might consider a taller \"x-height\" and/or shorter ascenders/descenders.
    \r\n\r\nedit: Agree with Nina about the five.\r\n\r\nedit 2: Sorry moving posts
    out of order. I think Nina's hybrid comment referred to mine above."
  created: '2009-08-27 17:49:48'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em> Oh yes, hybrids could be great for this! Like in Miller?</em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    and like some [[http://www.typography.com/fonts/font_features.php?featureID=74&productLineID=100034|H&FJ
    fonts]]."
  created: '2009-08-27 17:52:44'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thanks, Nina and Craig. Here's an experiment with \"pseudo-hybrid\" numerals,
    their \"x-height\" is now 46 units larger than the x-height. This is just a desperate
    attempt to save the circular zero. I made a new, more suited \"5\" too. What do
    you think?  \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pseudohybride_5436.png]"
  created: '2009-08-27 18:20:06'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Phew ... I've made a first draft of that nightmarish ampersand. I just found
    out that it's much harder to draw an ampersand in this style than a renaissance
    one. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/amp_4368.png]"
  created: '2009-08-28 00:57:52'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Even taller figures. Not quite hybrid numerals (what a horrible name, by
    the way), but getting closer.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/numetamp_4677.png]"
  created: '2009-08-28 01:28:46'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I like these last figure proportions best, for sure. \r\n\r\nThe almost-an-eightishness
    of the ampersand is problematic, I fear."
  created: '2009-08-28 04:27:44'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "You're right about the ampersand. Here's another one, Bodonian in style.
    Numerals even more hybridised now.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ampetnum_4708.png]"
  created: '2009-08-28 06:27:06'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: I, for one, liked the more unusual shape of the former &.
  created: '2009-08-28 09:02:11'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Me too. I saw one like that just the other day.
  created: '2009-08-28 09:52:16'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "I still agree with Craig that my first ampersand is too eight-ish, but I
    also agree with you guys that it's probably more in character. So I've made a
    variant more different from numeral eight, while maintaining the style. Could
    this work? \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/numetamps_4150.png]"
  created: '2009-08-28 14:58:58'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Yes, great, definitely more in character, and those little changes are all
    improvements. I wonder if you'd want to add a little optical offset to the central
    intersection, the way you'd do with the thin of an X. The NE to SW stroke looks
    like it enters much higher than it leaves.
  created: '2009-08-28 18:20:14'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "New specimen uploaded. I have done Basic Latin, two sets of numerals (\"semi-hybrid\"
    proportional and tabular lining), a minor truckload of lower and upper case ligatures
    and general punctuation. This time I'm going to resist the temptation of huge
    Unicode support, and small caps will have to wait. I need to finish this typeface.
    \r\n\r\nSpacing is hard. The text setting on the first page of the pdf shows an
    early attempt. It is deliberately loose, as I want this typeface to work primarily
    at 9 and 10 point. Any kind of critique and advice on the spacing (and anything
    else) is very welcome indeed."
  created: '2009-09-01 14:08:31'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Outstanding work. Didn't have time to print it out and look too hard, but
    here are some reactions:\r\n\r\nI still think top of S's curve needs to be a little
    higher.\r\n\r\nThe A-half of AE (and the E-half of OE?) looks a little overwhelmed.\r\n\r\nShould
    the thinnest part of the bottom bowl of g be a tiny bit thinner? Does the spine
    of s get a tiny bit too dark?\r\n\r\nIs there too much bottom overshoot with v
    and w?\r\n\r\nNot an expert but I think your acute and grave placement could need
    adjustment - should the bottom of the accent be closer to the vertical centerline
    of the glyph? \r\n\r\nf-umlaut ligs are really great, but f\xED is not (partly
    because of the left-right placement I just mentioned). (f\xEC, I would think,
    would sooner warrant a ligature...)\r\n\r\nThree, especially top half, still seems
    somehow too contemporary for this font to my eyes.\r\n\r\nI might save the funky
    zero contrast just for the oldstyle set.\r\n\r\nBottom stem of denominator four
    might need to be a hair longer.\r\n\r\nYen needs lightening.\r\n\r\nLOL at the
    currency mark!\r\n\r\nSection (SS) might be a little long in the middle.\r\n\r\nKeep
    it up!"
  created: '2009-09-01 15:08:25'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Aaarrr! I accidentally deleted a long reply. <em>Incredibly</em> annoying.
    Anyway. Thanks again for another hawk-eyed critique. \r\n\r\nThat \"S\", yes,
    I plain forgot about it. It was five units too low, now it's fixed. Bottom curve
    of \"g\" is now thinner and smoother, and the waist of \"s\" is slimmer, too.
    \r\n\r\n<cite>The A-half of AE (and the E-half of OE?) looks a little overwhelmed.</em>\r\n\r\nEr,
    I'm afraid I don't quite understand what you mean, could you please elaborate?
    \r\n\r\nThere was indeed too much overshoot on v and w, I've now reduced it by
    eight units or so. Yen, section, lining zero and denominator four is also fixed.\r\n\r\nBoy,
    placement of diacritics is hard, even when you have them in your first language.
    I need to work more on this, for sure.\r\n\r\nDo you think an f\xED-ligature like
    this could at all work if the diacritic was better placed? I know it may seem
    odd that I want to make such an odd ligature, but it's very much needed in Old
    Norse, F\xE6roese and Icelandic, languages I am very keen to support.  \r\n\r\nIs
    this new \"3\" better?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Sagyentre_5666.png]"
  created: '2009-09-01 18:07:38'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>Er, I\u2019m afraid I don\u2019t quite understand what you mean, could
    you please elaborate?</em>\r\n\r\nIn AE, I might give more of the overall width
    of the glyph to the A-parts on the left, because they're all thins (and because
    the thick vertical reads as belonging to the E, since it's vertical). Similarly
    the O of your OE might use some narrowing. These are characters I have little
    experience of, though, so I may be way off on how they read to more familiarized
    eyes.\r\n\r\n<em>Boy, placement of diacritics is hard, even when you have them
    in your first language. I need to work more on this, for sure.</em>\r\n\r\nThere's
    a bit on that [[http://www.microsoft.com/typography/developers/fdsspec/diacritics.htm|here]].\r\n\r\n<em>Do
    you think an f\xED-ligature like this could at all work if the diacritic was better
    placed? I know it may seem odd that I want to make such an odd ligature, but it\u2019s
    very much needed in Old Norse, F\xE6roese and Icelandic, languages I am very keen
    to support.</em>\r\n\r\nI'd get the accent placement right first. Then it might
    be worth seeing if the f hood can come down to the bottom of the accent rather
    than the middle or top. It'd be cool if it could work, though perhaps it would
    require too much bending of the f.\r\n\r\n<em>Is this new \u201C3\u201D better?</em>\r\n\r\nI
    think it is.\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-01 18:36:19'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Kerning dilemma: Tw is a very common combination in English, Tv and Ty in
    North Germanic languages, and Tx in Basque (and possibly Nahuatl, not sure). But
    it's impossible to kern them, at least in typefaces with tallish x-heights. Which
    one of these are least unacceptable, the almost-touching tucked in \"Tw\" or the
    gaping white hole-leaving \"Tv\"?\r\n\r\n [img:sites/default/files/old-images/tw_3996.png]"
  created: '2009-09-02 01:10:00'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "New AE and OE. I know this OE construction really is too old-fashioned for
    this kind of typeface, but the newer solution looks like a CE-ligature (or a turned
    D+E) to me. Do they work better?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AEOE_6581.png]"
  created: '2009-09-02 02:12:07'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'Hi Sindre. Any more progress on this? '
  created: '2010-01-09 07:11:33'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Oh, yes please!?
  created: '2010-01-09 10:36:57'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thanks for asking, guys! Yes, I've made loads of variants and optical sizes
    and stuff, and even some titling alternates and indeed a Grotesque companion based
    on the base fonts' proportions. The whole project turned into Gargantuan proportions,
    really, while I started experienced rather severe exhaustion symptoms, as someone
    here at Typophile kindly pointed out. I think I got a serious type overdose. So
    I had to take a long break. Of course, I haven't stopped drawing type, but at
    some point I started thinking I have to reconsider most of my work. \r\n\r\nI
    started type drawing a little more than a year ago, and I found that I've learnt
    so much form drawing and redrawing and studying type that some or most of the
    work I did months ago just isn't up to standard anymore. So I've started over,
    in a way. Mondegreen will definitely survive in some form, as it is the first
    typeface I drew without emulating or quoting or even looking at anything else.
    But I have to lower my own ambition, one dilettante simply cannot take on the
    task of finishing a 20 font OpenType face with extensive language and script support,
    at least not when he has a family (well, sort of) and a full-time job and several
    musical projects on the side. \r\n\r\nAt the moment, I'm redrawing and reviving
    Schola, and reducing it to something approximating manageability. (Roman and Italic.
    No Russian, no Greek, no friggin' Runes. But Central and Eastern European support,
    of course.) The 8 point cut will be finished in both styles first. Later, I will
    add 10 and 24 point cuts. Maybe.\r\n\r\nThen Mondegreen is up for revision. I
    now have no idea what to do with its grotesque and titling variants, and I seriously
    doubt I will develop all the planned optical sizes (8, 10, 12, 18 and 60 points)
    anywhere soon or even ever. \r\n\r\nThanks for the interest, my friends! I feel
    ready to be a contributing Typophile again now, but perhaps a slightly less frantic
    one.\r\n\r\nSindre"
  created: '2010-01-14 01:38:41'
- author:
    name: neverblink
    picture: 113022
  body: "<em>Zero is interesting, is that contrast pattern something you've seen before?</em>\r\n\u2014eliason\r\n\r\nFF
    Nexus Serif, by Martin Majoor (in my mind a greatly overlook font family), has
    the same weight distribution on the zero."
  created: '2010-01-14 08:03:45'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Great to see you round, Sindre. I agree that growing type design projects
    are easy to get lost in\u2026 Thinking about what Lenin said about revolutionaries,
    maybe also for type designers a cool head is just as vital as a warm heart.\r\nLooking
    forward to seeing more of your wonderful work, if less frantically :-)."
  created: '2010-01-14 09:50:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The contrast in that zero is rare, but certainly not unique.\r\nIt is however
    highly intelligent.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-14 14:49:56'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Hello again, Nina, and thank you for your very, very encouraging words. I
    shall follow Lenin's wise advice. \r\n\r\nHello again, Hrant, and thank you for
    the nicest compliment!\r\n\r\nAnd Wouter, thank you for pointing that out. I didn't
    know FF Nexus, it is indeed a great typeface. I used Majoor's FF Scala to death
    a little more than a decade ago, when everyone else did. But this is much nicer!
    On my wish list."
  created: '2010-01-15 14:09:27'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Hmm, I see that Bodoni himself cut a zero like that! (One of his better Arabic
    figures!)
  created: '2010-02-03 17:48:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Really? I thought that was from the 19th century.\r\nDo you have a link?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-03 18:26:02'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Well, I was fortunate enough to be looking at the <em>Manuale</em> for real,
    so I don't have a link (and this library won't let me take pictures). But Google
    found this - http://www.flickr.com/photos/ekusupo/197097327/ - which at least
    shows the shapes.\r\n\r\n(This Manuale is dated 1818, so it IS from the 19th century.)"
  created: '2010-02-03 20:02:01'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thanks for that link, Craig. Very interesting. That \"8\" is great too. All
    those ball terminals are not. (\"Arabic numerals\" is a misnomer, by the way.
    The ancient Indians are the ones who should get the credit for that marvelous
    invention.)\r\n\r\nBoy, I'm looking forward to making Mondegreen again. But I
    must resist the temptation. "
  created: '2010-02-03 20:35:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The ancient Indians are the ones who should get the credit\r\n\r\nMostly
    true, although the Arabs added the zero,\r\nwithout which the decimal system is
    far less useful.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-03 21:14:12'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "<cite>the Arabs added the zero</em>\r\n\r\nI think that's a myth. Babylonian
    mathematicians understood the concept of zero around 1500 BC, and used an open
    space to represent it. The Sumerians used three hooks to notate zero 800 years
    or so later, and I'm pretty sure the Indians used a round shape to write zero
    around 500, and that the Arabs learned it from the Persians a couple of hundred
    years or so later."
  created: '2010-02-03 21:32:50'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Gosh, the things one learns here!
  created: '2010-02-03 23:18:17'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: "@eliason, err those would be my drawings you found on Google!\r\n\r\nYou
    can zoom in to look at <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/ekusupo/197097327/sizes/o/\">Numerals
    from Giambattista Bodoni (Manuale Tipographico)</a>\r\n\r\nI have tried to keep
    pretty faithful to the Bodoni's original forms - therefore the 6 and 9 look a
    bit odd."
  created: '2010-02-04 21:21:19'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "No new work, but I'd like your thoughts on these expansion plans: \r\nMondegreen
    Grotesque. Based on Mondegreen's skeleton, so the proportions are quite ungrotesque,
    possibly more like what they would have been if the Grotesque was invented in
    1820. Planned weights are regular (shown), medium and bold, and I've made some
    sketches for a regular italic. A slightly condensed and tightened bold headline
    version is also planned.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Mondegreengrot_4446.png]\r\n\r\nAnd
    this is Mondegreen Poster, with extremely exaggerated everything. Careful with
    those spikes!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Mondegreenpost_4659.png]\r\n\r\nThese
    are both early drafts, and they haven't seen paper at all. "
  created: '2010-02-07 13:31:20'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "And of course, here's the display version of the regular Mondegreen. Thought
    I'd shown that already. What's missing, is the display italic. That has the highest
    priority when I start working on this again. Then I'll make some intermediate
    sizes. I've planned the regular for use at 8 or 9 points, and the display for
    up to 60 or so. Intermediates will be 10, 12 and 18 points.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/MondegreenE_4431.png]\r\n\r\nI
    still haven't made a small cap, and won't until everything else is finished. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-07 15:43:20'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Was all this work a cause of your 1/13 realization that \"I have to lower
    my own ambition,\" or does it represent a \"relapse\" of overambitiousness? :-)\r\n\r\nIt's
    all very appealing work, as usual. The grotesque may be a bit redundant (my reaction
    perhaps colored by the fact that there are a few active grotesques on the crit
    forum now as well as recent releases), but it would be great to see those serif
    cuts developed (at a sustainable pace :-) )."
  created: '2010-02-07 17:21:50'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "I worked like a madman on all this for several months, until my friends started
    worrying if I had suddenly developed some kind of mania (or had become an amphetamine
    abuser). Haven't touched it for a long time now, no relapses, but I'm looking
    forward to working on it again. \r\n\r\nI kind of like that grotesque, but you're
    right, that's an overpopulated genre. I'll leave it. At least until everything
    else is finished. \r\n\r\nI'm thinking the Display cut (not the Poster variant)
    is a little low in contrast, or slightly too thin. What do you think?"
  created: '2010-02-07 17:35:13'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Jeepers! A relapse of overambitiouness indeed! I like the way you prefaced
    your post with 'no new work' and then presented three variants we haven't seen
    before! I'm feeling quite unproductive by comparison! ;)\r\n\r\nI'm loving the
    spikes of the Poster cut! Actually I think you've got a golden opportunity with
    Poster to go wild with more spikes. The top of t could be really spiky; and the
    z could have double serifs like the s? (But not everywhere of course.)\r\n\r\nThe
    display variant looks like it would work very well as a light weight, but I agree
    a regular or medium would be welcome too. (And I'm questioning myself whether
    I need to suggest <cite>more</cite> Mondegreen weights!)"
  created: '2010-02-07 18:32:12'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Er, all of this work (and then some) was done before I realised it was time
    to pull on the brakes. \r\n\r\nThanks for your kind words! Spiky it will be, thanks
    for those ideas. \r\n\r\nRead my lips: No new weights. So I guess I have to fatten
    up that display cut until it matches the small text cut. Will this be sufficient,
    do you think?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/MondegreenE_5783.png]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/MondegreenA_4424.png]\r\n\r\n(Note
    to self: This isn't working on Mondegreen. This is preparation for future work.)"
  created: '2010-02-07 21:58:19'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "That's new display above and text below, right? That weight's better. It
    might be helpful to mock up some fake magazine pages or posters at the target
    sizes and look at a printout. (Maybe you've already been doing that.)\r\n\r\nThis
    is going to be a thing of beauty!"
  created: '2010-02-07 22:16:40'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: I assume you're familiar with Storm's <a href="http://www.stormtype.com/typefaces-fonts-shop/typefaces-116-serapion-pro">Serapion</a>
    with its super spiked spurs?!
  created: '2010-02-07 22:29:21'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "*Blush* Indeed I am, Ben. Serapion and its <em>insane</em> spikes has been
    <em>tremendously</em> influential on my taste in type. I really, really dig the
    spikiness of Fleischmann too. \r\n\r\nThanks, Craig. No, I have a stupid habit
    of not printing anything until too late in the process. Probably a beginner's
    mistake. Very high on my priority list is a good printer, the printers at work
    just isn't good enough for looking critically at type. Any suggestions?"
  created: '2010-02-07 22:46:33'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: Yay! Page two! That's a first for one of my threads. (I'm easily amused.)
  created: '2010-02-07 22:48:13'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">I have a stupid habit of not printing anything until too late in the process.
    Probably a beginner's mistake. \r\n\r\nAah, I have that problem too. I'll be interested
    to see what printer you end up with."
  created: '2010-02-07 23:18:19'
date: '2009-08-17 16:36:08'
title: Mondegreen Roman and Italic

---
