---
author:
  name: nina
  picture: 111699
body: "Strange question maybe but has been bugging me for a while: Does anyone ever
  make different optical sizes of logos \u2013 not necessarily the type, but the mark
  itself? And if not, why not?\r\n\r\nBackground: I'm currently working on a logo
  (and I don't think I can post it at the moment, so I'd appreciate a discussion on
  the \"theoretical\" level) that needs some detail that makes it vivid at large sizes
  (think company car decal) but gets lost at business-card sizes (at least on my printer).\r\n\r\nSo
  do you think there are any cogent reasons against making a \"HD\" and a \"lo-fi\"
  version of the same mark, one finer, the other more sturdy?"
comments:
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Absolutely!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-08-18 12:06:57'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Yes. \r\n\r\nGetting the client to abide by the guidelines for use over the
    long haul will be an entirely different matter. (But should probably be considered
    before spending a lot of time of multiple versions.)"
  created: '2009-08-18 13:03:02'
- author:
    name: CreativeNRG
    picture: 117760
  body: "The only aspect I've ever adjusted in a logo has been the size of the \u2122
    or \xAE at a large or small size. One test I use during the design process is
    to make the logo an avatar size to see how it holds up. If you are losing important
    aspects something is wrong IMHO. A logo, by design, is suppose to be consistent
    and extremely flexible.\r\n\r\nNote: I will sharpen low-res bitmap versions intended
    for use on a website and will completely recreate 16px x 16px 'fav icon' sizes.\r\n\r\nBest
    of luck on your project.\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-18 13:05:04'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: It all depends on the details of the logo, but the short answer is yes.
  created: '2009-08-18 13:18:53'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Cool! Thanks all. Just out of curiosity (and for my client), does anyone
    have any good examples? I must admit I've never seen this done and/or discussed
    \u2013 maybe just been living under a rock\u2026\r\n\r\nCreativeNRG: Of course
    I'd agree, in principle, that logos are supposed to be scalable. BTW I would say
    that the logo in question works when scaled \u2013 no *crucial* detail is lost
    \u2013, it just doesn't look its best at all sizes equally; and that got me wondering
    \u2013 if we're talking about the importance of optical scaling in type, shouldn't
    we accept its merits for logos as well \u2013 in terms of making the \"HD\" and
    the \"lo-fi\" version *optically* consistent/optimized instead of just mathematically
    scaled?\r\n\r\nKent, in this case it looks like I'll be in charge of most (if
    not all) of their printed materials myself, and will also be advising them on
    use of the logo in other media, so I can luckily have an eye on proper usage."
  created: '2009-08-18 13:55:07'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: One example is the IBM logo. The number of bars changes when used very small
    or very large.
  created: '2009-08-18 13:59:18'
- author:
    name: CreativeNRG
    picture: 117760
  body: "@altaira: I completely understand your point but I've never seen a style
    guide specify the use of different logo files at different sizes. However, most
    guides restrict the use below a certain size in print. If anyone has an example
    of a style guide that requires different versions based on size I'd love to see
    it!\r\n\r\n@Don McCahill: Interesting point about the IBM logo. Does anyone have
    a visual example? I've only seen it used with 8 bars and couldn't find a deviation
    after an image search."
  created: '2009-08-18 14:45:53'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: We did a set of [[http://www.terminaldesign.com/Lettering/Logotypes/KateSpade/|optically
    adjusted logos for Kate Spade]] a few years ago. The space between elements was
    adjusted as were the fine details.
  created: '2009-08-18 15:23:27'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "Yes. An example is [[http://www.palgrave.com/home/index.asp|Palgrave]] \u2014
    see the 8-pointed star logo at the bottom of the sidebar. It appears on pretty
    much all Palgrave book and journal covers, and there are three versions of it,
    with less contrast in the arms for smaller sizes. In the smallest (for sub-5mm,
    such as spines), the little boxes at the ends of the arms are solid instead of
    open...\r\n________________________________________________\r\nEver since I chose
    to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2009-08-18 15:32:29'
- author:
    name: CreativeNRG
    picture: 117760
  body: "Thanks 'TerminalDesign' for proving that example. However, I'd expect most
    of the optical adjustments were made in the tiny versions in the third row.\r\n\r\nI'd
    like to clarify my previous point... Absolutely, you need to make those optical
    adjustments when you convert a vector logo (for print) into a very small bitmap
    logo (for web). To allow Photoshop to make your bicubic downsampling decisions
    for you would be insane.\r\n\r\nIf the logo stays in a vector format with a minimum
    size I don't see the need for another version. The version used on a business
    card can be scaled to go on the side of a semi trailer."
  created: '2009-08-18 18:01:02'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "Jeff, it's to do with print resolution: I've seen the \"large\" version of
    the Palgrave symbol printed at about 4mm wide by mistake, and the little squares
    were fuzzy & indistinct. Much the same as having a display version of a font with
    fine lines, and then a \"regular\" text vesion, and maybe a \"caption\" version
    where the \"thins\" are chunkier so they don't get lost at small sizes. Just like
    you wouldn't set Big Caslon at 6pt. I'll see if I can fish out the relevant page
    of the branding guidelines document if you like.\r\n\r\n_________________________________________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2009-08-18 19:49:27'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Wish I'd read this thread about 3 months ago, then we could have got the design
    agency to make the favicon, and include the (R) from the start. ;)
  created: '2009-08-18 20:04:03'
- author:
    name: CreativeNRG
    picture: 117760
  body: "@ DTW: Dave, I think we're all on the same page but with slightly different
    perspectives. Please forgive my 'old school' mentality. Twenty years slugging
    it out in prepress and printing will do that to a guy. I could talk chocks and
    spreads for hours. Still miss the days when etching film was an art. ;)\r\n\r\nI
    completely agree with everything you're saying but personally haven't seen a style
    guide that would allow you to use a logo at such a 'tiny' size. If you come across
    something I'd love to see how they deal with it.\r\n\r\nI think your point about
    them using the wrong version of the logo goes to the initial question as to the
    down side of having too many versions of the logo for different situations. KISS...
    or someone is bound to F it up beyond belief at a big cost to someone."
  created: '2009-08-18 20:07:35'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Agreed. I have never seen a style guide or encountered a company that had
    different logos for different sizes. Obviously it exists as some previous posts
    point out, but considering the chain of custody that happens between the logo
    designer and an end-user like myself I don't think it's a good idea - I'm lucky
    to even get vector.\r\n\r\n\"Just grab it off the web\u2026\"\r\n\r\nWhen I'm
    designing a logo I look at it from sub 1\" to very large and everything in between
    before I show it to anyone.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2009-08-18 22:35:31'
- author:
    name: manofscience
    picture: 117603
  body: "Hi Altaira,\r\n\r\nAn obvious example seems to me the current trend of 3D-ifying
    logos and adding subtle beveling and gradient to imply a slightly rounded look.\r\n\r\nWhen
    used small, however, the '2D' or simply two-colour version can be used. For example,
    Apple's logo is this glassy blob thing writ large, but they can fall back on the
    simple silhouette Apple when using it small. Other examples include most car manufacturers
    (e.g. Ford, GM) and UPS have '3D' updated versions of their logos as well as the
    original '2D' versions. The extra detail does add some extra interest at large
    sizes. A Google images search will demonstrate any of the above examples.\r\n\r\nWhether
    you agree with the trend is another matter. I heard a (possibly made-up) story
    that UPS commissioned Pentagram to explore possibilities for an update on their
    classic logo by Paul Rand. They racked up the allocated number of billable hours
    but eventually came back to UPS and presented them with all the reasons that their
    existing logo was a classic and shouldn't be fiddled with. UPS paid them but then
    went to FutureBrand to get their current 3D-effect shield with cliched swoosh
    and rounded-ish sans.\r\n\r\nOn a somewhat related note: 'How long should a logo
    last?' - Johnson Banks: http://www.johnsonbanks.co.uk/thoughtfortheweek/index.php?thoughtid=310\r\n\"Yellow
    Pages have cut the umbilical chord that held them to Futura and opted for one
    of those ubiquitous humanist soft sans serif solutions. Paradoxically, by opting
    to hit the more modern button they\u2019ve traded long term stability for short-term
    refresh, but if that notches up a few better points in tracking, that may be deemed
    a success. There\u2019s also a wry typographic twist there, as the typeface named
    after the future (Futura) is dumped for something of the present.\"\r\n\r\nH\r\n\r\n--\r\nHenry
    Hadlow - <a href=\"http://work.dlow.org\">Graphic Design / Art Direction</a>"
  created: '2009-08-18 22:57:06'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Optical size logo\u2019s are only feasible in an environment where there
    is really tight control over usage.\r\nIn other words: the concept is nice, but
    do not go there. Just set up some clear guidelines for usage with good/bad examples
    and hope for the best. There are a lot of uneducated (iow bad) socalled designers.\r\n\r\n.
    . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-08-18 23:07:12'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Please ignore this post if you do not want to be dragged back in time into
    the previous century.\r\n\r\nThe different version of logos in the past (IBM was
    mentioned above) had a lot to do with different scales of use, not just printing
    at different sizes. A (1) top-of-the-building sign visible from miles away, through
    (2) car/truck/plane decals down to a (3) business card or a post stamp. Then different
    considerations again: (1) not black, because it needs to be illuminated at night,
    but a black & white line (no tone) version was needed for newspaper ads in letterpress.
    (2) not too much detail so it can be cut from vinyl or sprayed on with a stencil
    on 1000 trucks reasonably cheaply, (3) business cards and stationery were mostly
    printed in 1\u20132 colours, not full colour as often happens today."
  created: '2009-08-19 00:40:29'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "Jeff, I quite agree about KISS. In any big company, almost as soon as an
    identity is in place, people <em>who are not </em>[<em>professional</em>] <em>designers</em>
    will need to use elements of it. Many of them will not be aware of branding guidelines,
    nor of official versions of the logos on specific intranet sites (or whatever),
    and, when they realize they need to put the logo on item <em>x</em>, will extract
    it from the first item <em>y</em> that they can. \"Different versions, what different
    versions?\" It's inevitable as death & taxes.\r\n\r\nFWIW, here's the relevant
    branding guidelines page:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/symbolguidelines_5872.gif]\r\n_________________________________________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2009-08-19 10:12:10'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Wow great. Thanks for the input and examples.\r\nInteresting, the elements
    in question in my logo are also thin-armed \"stars\", so structurally somewhat
    similar to the \"spikes\" in the Palgrave symbol.\r\n\r\nThanks Henry (zrenneh),
    good food for thought (being processed :-).\r\n\r\nBert:\r\n<cite>\"the concept
    is nice, but do not go there\"</cite>\r\nWouldn't you say that depends on the
    situation though? I wouldn't usually consider this, but like I said in this case
    it looks like I might have pretty good control over how the logo will be used,
    at least initially.\r\n\r\nI'll see the client today so will ask him if it might
    be okay for me to put the thing up for critique after all\u2026"
  created: '2009-08-19 13:11:23'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Another example would be the logo for the German bank Sparkasse, (re)designed
    by Otl Aicher.\r\nSee http://www.guidosworld.de/logos/Logos/Sparkasse/sparkasse.htm"
  created: '2009-08-19 13:50:11'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: ">Wouldn\u2019t you say that depends on the situation though? I wouldn\u2019t
    usually consider this, but like I said in this case it looks like I might have
    pretty good control over how the logo will be used, at least initially.\r\n\r\nInitially
    is the key word here. I don't know how the company you are designing for works,
    but usually the logos/style sheets I get are requested by a marketer and sent
    to them from another marketer. Have you ever dealt with marketers? A lot of times
    they cannot understand the difference between vector and \"grab it off the web\",
    especially now that the internet is such a focus. Yesterday I was sent a .png
    at 6.2K to \"pop\" in an InDesign presentation.\r\n\r\nThen you have to consider
    the designer at the other end, are they going to read the style guide? And when
    they don't are the people at your company going to be sharp enough to recognize
    a violation?\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2009-08-19 17:22:14'
- author:
    name: CreativeNRG
    picture: 117760
  body: "@DTW: Thanks much for providing the Palgrave example. Even at the 20 mm size
    it would present issues and I'd hate to see the results after it was printed in
    grayscale or color on newsprint at 85 or 100 lpi. Add in a touch of misregistration
    on press and you've got a major mess on your hands.\r\n\r\nDo you know why they
    allow the logo to be printed that small? The majority of style guides prohibit
    scaling the logo anywhere near that size.\r\n\r\nIn a flash of brilliance I just
    figured out how to print the Palgrave mark at 7 pt.\r\n\r\nHere it is ---> *"
  created: '2009-08-19 18:00:48'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "<cite>I wouldn\u2019t usually consider this, but like I said in this case
    it looks like I might have pretty good control over how the logo will be used,
    at least initially.</cite>\r\n\r\nAhh, I have had some clients for years, some
    for over a decade, but none forever. So, that\u2019s why I recommend to KISS.\r\nBut
    if *you* can, by all means go for specific files for specific usage.\r\n\r\n .
    . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-08-19 22:37:50'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "Yes, No - depends on the logo. If the logo has lot of details in it, one
    must optimize it for the small sizes. But then one should always avoid too many
    elements (details) in a logo, and have only one version so that it reduces the
    chances of its misuse in the future.\r\n\r\nWe (at Dalton Maag) made two versions
    for this logo* to make sure it works well also in the small sizes. You can see
    that all the thin strokes has been expanded a little in the second version so
    that they look same (optically) even at the different sizes.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/GS_6594.jpg]\r\n\r\n*This
    is just for the example purpose - not the final artwork."
  created: '2009-08-19 23:03:30'
- author:
    name: jabez
    picture: 112785
  body: "Here's another example: \r\n\r\n<cite>A major drawback of the original logo
    was that its fine details made it hard to reproduce in smaller sizes. In an effort
    to remedy this problem, Hayman devised three marks: a highly detailed version
    for larger uses, a simplified version for smaller print pieces, and a logotype-only
    version for especially small applications such as book and CD spines.</cite>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture-1_5659.gif]\r\n\r\nhttp://pentagram.com/en/new/2009/01/new-work-white-house-historica-1.php\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-20 05:27:16'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "@Jeff: re \"Do you know why they allow the logo to be printed that small?\"\r\n\r\nMost
    publishers will want some version of their logo to go on spines. The big version's
    OK for an inch-thick textbook, but Palgrave publish journals too. Consider the
    thickness of a 64-page issue. (About 4mm, as it happens.)\r\n\r\nLOL re that tiny
    version you typed. Find a font with an 8-pointed asterisk (I know I've seen a
    few) and that might be good idea!\r\n\r\n[edit: Unicode 2733 ... &#x2733;]\r\n________________________________________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2009-08-20 09:26:38'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">\u201Cthe concept is nice, but do not go there\u201D\r\n\r\nOoops.;) we
    do it all the time, have for several decades. Size masters for a logo depends
    on the logo and the user, and their concern for clarity. We've done versions for
    size, for color, for resolution and for device. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-08-20 13:50:10'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"I don\u2019t know how the company you are designing for works\"</cite>\r\nI'm
    beginning to realize how lucky I am with my client in this case:\r\n1) They're
    a very small company (less than ten people).\r\n2) They're in a design/media related
    field, so they have (a) good eyes and (b) respect for design (and (c) are well
    aware of cross-media/resolution issues & such).\r\n3) They love the logo.\r\nThat
    said, I can see how in most/many cases the optical sizing thing wouldn't be very
    practicable. I've gotten enough 72k GIFs as logos to print on posters myself\u2026"
  created: '2009-08-20 14:01:17'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: David, interesting! What does "for device" entail, assuming that it's separate
    from the resolution question?
  created: '2009-08-20 14:02:55'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: The Typecon logo (system) reduse the number of lines at small sizes.
  created: '2009-08-20 14:40:19'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Handpicked, hand tweeted. http://twitter.com/Typophile/status/3437414477
  created: '2009-08-21 01:44:10'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: For the last logo I did I provided two optical sizes and a special version
    for use in long, tight spaces (with DVD and CD spines in mind). The logo was done
    for a small business, so I felt pretty safe thinking that the owner would keep
    the variations in mind, and he has.
  created: '2009-08-21 02:22:04'
- author:
    name: hbeier
    picture: 116634
  body: "The best case I know is the Lloyd's logo. They've got 3 versions of their
    symbol for different sizes/production processes. You can take a look at their
    brand guidelines on their [[http://www.lloyds.com/Lloyds_Market/Tools_and_reference/Lloyds_brand_2/Brand_Guidelines.htm|website]]
    and clicking on the first PDF link. To be even more specific, the different versions
    are described on page 20.\r\n\r\nI hope it helps.\r\n\r\nHenrique"
  created: '2009-08-21 17:57:09'
- author:
    name: CreativeNRG
    picture: 117760
  body: "@hbeler: Thanks for the excellent example.\r\n\r\nOut of curiosity I animated
    the small-size version of their 'Arms' logo with the standard-size version. It
    illustrates pretty well why optimizing certain logos has it merit and my once
    hard line perspective has forever been changed.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Llyods-Arms-ANIM_6350.gif]"
  created: '2009-08-21 21:34:27'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Frode  is correct, and we also have encountered problems with complexity
    of contours that will not work on some devices. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-08-21 21:58:33'
- author:
    name: dinazina
    picture: 113020
  body: "The poplular Elliott Bay Brewery Pub in Seattle has an elaborate sign:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/elliottbay-sign_5355.jpg]\r\n\r\nWhich
    is somewhat simplified for print purposes:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/elliott_bay_brewery_5248.jpg]\r\n\r\nAnd
    further simplified as a small mark for use on napkins, website, etc. \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/elliott
    bay-small copy_6450.jpg]"
  created: '2009-08-21 22:05:38'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Back in the 90s when Novell first began they had a logo with optical sizes.
    I'm having d\xE9j\xE0 vu, I swear I wrote this already.\r\n\r\nThey had a logo
    with prongs on it. And the number of prongs was dependent upon the size of the
    logo. Building size had more prongs that back of package address size."
  created: '2009-08-22 00:03:19'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "@ Don, <cite>One example is the IBM logo. The number of bars changes when
    used very small or very large.</cite>\r\n\r\nCan you point to some examples of
    this?\r\n\r\nThanks\r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2009-09-17 15:00:59'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Here's one more I just came across:\r\n<a href=\"http://www.investorsinpeople.co.uk/Documents/Branding2009/IIP_CustomerGuidelines_VERSION2_24.08.09.pdf\">Investors
    in People UK</a>\r\n\r\nFollowing this thread, I've actually got our design agency
    to provide two versions of our company logo:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IMA-Optical-sized-logos_6666.gif]\r\nThe
    small size versions (right side) have INTERNATIONAL in a heavier weight, no (R)
    mark, and the monochrome version has less detail in the flower element. Thanks
    Nina for the useful thread! :D"
  created: '2010-02-17 12:39:40'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "The logo for the <a href=\"http://www.atypi.org/30_past_conferences/04_Petersburg\">ATypI
    conference of 2008</a> was created in three scale-optimised versions: \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AA-Sm_Md_Lg_3_6686.png]"
  created: '2010-02-19 00:04:12'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: I've tried to make logos to work in all sizes. More work making it, but less
    in implementing.
  created: '2010-02-19 00:15:05'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "There is no way the same artwork can do for a 5-metre-high sign perched on
    top of a building, silk-screened on fabric, posted on a Web site, used as a favicon
    on the browser navigation bar, or printed on a business card. It\u2019s obvious
    that you have to optimize the design\u2014among other things, for size."
  created: '2010-02-19 00:39:42'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">I've tried to make logos to work in all sizes. More work making it, but
    less in implementing.\r\n\r\nIf you can do that, great. But I think especially
    with a logotype the characters need beefing up for tiny sizes. And isn't it <cite>more</cite>
    work to create different versions of the logo rather than less?"
  created: '2010-02-20 11:19:26'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: We recently redrew the Barneys New York logo and provided them with [[http://www.terminaldesign.com/lettering/logotypes/barneys-new-york/|two
    versions]].
  created: '2010-02-21 14:35:30'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "One example that immediately comes to mind is the Fortis logo. There are
    two different versions (one with 23 shapes & one with 32 shapes; if I remember
    correctly, I didn't bother to count).\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Fortis_5463.jpg]\r\nGetting
    your client to follow the guidelines might be a bit tricky though. I didn't even
    realise there were 2 different versions of this logo untill after working with
    it regularly for a couple of years, I finally got the guideline from one of their
    banks."
  created: '2010-02-21 14:52:47'
- author:
    name: Jennifer E. Dahl
    picture: 110983
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screen-shot-2010-02-19-at-11_6463.51.36-AM.jpg]'
  created: '2010-02-23 14:41:13'
- author:
    name: serpt99
  body: "<div class=\"content\"> \r\n\t\t<p>There is no way the same artwork can do
    for a 5-metre-high sign perched on top of a building, silk-screened on fabric,
    posted on a Web site, used as a favicon on the browser navigation bar, or printed
    on a business card. It\u2019s obvious that you have to optimize the design\u2014among
    other things, for size.<a href=\"http://clatikrsk.ru/\"></a></p>\r\n\t\t\t  </div>"
  created: '2014-07-19 11:05:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "If it is not already possible, we are on the cusp of being able to put a
    colored logo into a font, and specify versions for rendering at speci\uFB01c sizes.
    This will be great for zooming on devices."
  created: '2014-07-21 19:34:05'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Apropos:\r\nhttp://responsivelogos.co.uk/"
  created: '2014-07-22 14:36:56'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "Most corporations I've done design work for don't have different versions
    for different sizes. \r\n\r\nMultiple versions sounds good in theory, but it complicates
    things and creates the possibility that vendors or employees will use the wrong
    version. \r\n\r\nMost employees can't even select the right fonts or colors, let
    alone pick the right logo version. And when working with an outside vendor they
    may send them the wrong logo version.\r\n\r\nI'd agree there are occasional instances
    where it makes sense, but most professional logos are designed to look good large
    or small, and are scalable vector files.\r\n"
  created: '2014-07-22 17:14:20'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "> Multiple versions sounds good in theory, but it complicates things and
    creates the possibility that vendors or employees will use the wrong version.\r\n\r\nAgreed
    100%.\r\n\r\nWhen I redesigned the Extensis logo a few years ago, I really wanted
    to do two optical sizes, maybe even three. The one for tiny sizes would use subtly
    bolder letters, and they would be just slightly more loosely spaced. The one for
    big sizes would use just subtle tighter spacing and thinner lines.\r\n\r\nBut
    I came to the conclusion that people would use the wrong ones sometimes, there
    was no way that I could stop that from happening, and the downside was bigger
    than the benefit."
  created: '2014-07-22 18:46:22'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> The one for tiny sizes would use subtly bolder letters...\r\n\r\nYears
    ago a new client emailed their logo. We thought it looked heavy, but she said
    it was correct. Found out after the job was printed that she sent the version
    intended for small sizes.\r\n\r\nClients aren't designers and they make mistakes.
    I've seen pasteup boards cut in 2 (cut right through the type) to fit into a filing
    cabinet. One client had a secretary who modified their logo with a felt-tip pen
    on a newsletter they mailed out (she said she was \"improving\" it)."
  created: '2014-07-22 23:23:32'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "<cite>Clients aren't designers and they make mistakes.</cite>\r\nThey should
    read the guidebook. I've made a few in my career so far. I designed the logo for
    a logistic company called Tunderman. The main logo is quite detailed and is presented
    in big on trucks. I knew it was going to be problematic at small sizes so I designed
    a secondary one with fewer details and described in the guidebook which logo should
    be used in which context and I put restrictions on the size for both optical variants.
    For extra clarity I put both designs in the same Illustrator file with information
    on the sizes. If the wrong logo is still being used, that's not a simple mistake
    anymore; someone has to be incredibly incompetent to make that happen."
  created: '2014-07-31 06:07:49'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "Martin, in the case you mentioned of a truck company, it does sound like
    a big mistake.\r\n\r\nBut I've found that most clients aren't knowledgable about
    their company's graphic standards manual. They've got a hundred other things on
    their mind and use the wrong colors, fonts, artwork, etc. I've seen it over and
    over again. \r\n\r\nOne of the frustrating things about graphic manuals (and I've
    designed several) is that professional designers generally don't need it other
    than basic info on fonts, colors, etc.; they already know what they're doing.
    And graphic amateurs like employees either don't read it or don't understand it."
  created: '2014-07-31 17:22:13'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: I'm quite surprised to hear this. I can completely understand most people
    won't know which optical variant of text to use and I can also understand mixing
    up RGB with CMYK, but selecting different fonts, artwork, entirely different colors
    or using the wrong optical logo is sheer incompetence. They should read the guidebook
    (which they didn't do or the mistake wouldn't be made) or ask if something isn't
    clear. I understand they have other things on their mind, but a company should
    hire people who are involved with how the company presents itself and so things
    like this shouldn't happen. The companies I worked for always have elaborate processes
    for checking mistakes involving several people. I still often spot typographic
    errors and at times grammar mistakes but I think that's quite forgivable. Some
    mistakes just slip in and go unnoticed. Using the wrong optical logo, a different
    font or different colors is much less forgivable. There's a big difference between
    making a human mistake and being incompetent.
  created: '2014-07-31 17:25:58'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "To be fair I should mention that a lot of the mistakes I see are in business-to-business
    pieces (for example materials prepared for a business presentation made to another
    company). These pieces are important and the rules should be followed, but frequently
    they aren't.\r\n\r\nMost corporate pieces seen by the general public are prepared
    by professionals who hopefully read the manual. But most manuals tend towards
    being straightjackets rather than guidelines. I remember once helping prepare
    a graphics guide for a corporation, and then the first piece we did for them we
    wanted to violate several of our own rules!\r\n"
  created: '2014-08-01 04:12:17'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "<blockquote>I remember once helping prepare a graphics guide for a corporation,
    and then the first piece we did for them we wanted to violate several of our own
    rules!</blockquote>\r\nOkay, that's probably not a good practice, though a guidebook
    is to guide you, not to enforce you. I think if you're a capable designer it's
    okay to break some rules at times. You obviously wouldn't want to mess up the
    consistency of the design, but following the guidelines exactly can be very restricting
    and may even restrict the quality of the design.\r\n\r\nI think essentially a
    guidebook should guide capable designers while it tells the non-designers or less
    capable ones what to do exactly. I think this is a general principle, too: amateur
    designers will probably fair better when they follow the principles of design
    while an experienced one may dare to break them. There's a great distinction between
    not following rules due to ignorance and breaking them consciously. The former
    often leads to bad design while the latter may be daring and ingenious."
  created: '2014-08-01 05:05:55'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Here\u2019s one of mine in three sizes:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/symbol-flat-liten_6234.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/symbol-flat-medium_4409.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/symbol-flat-stor_6126.png]"
  created: '2014-08-01 09:00:27'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<blockquote>They should read the guidebook [...] or ask if something isn't
    clear.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI remember the story of a designer who was supposed
    to do some christmas card or so and panicked when being confronted with half a
    thousand pages of a design manual and about as many fonts.\r\n\r\n(That famous
    designer's bureau clearly impressed the client, I am sure.)"
  created: '2014-08-01 11:05:55'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: Wow, I've never heard of such big design manuals. To some extent it seems
    ridiculous to define so many fonts for Christmas cards. I'm assuming with so many
    fonts there is barely any consistency to be noticed in the typography, so just
    define a few fonts and give the designer some liberties. I really can't imagine
    any company actually needs a design manual that big. Am I wrong in thinking that?
  created: '2014-08-01 18:28:56'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: Frode, nice logos. Who did you design this for?
  created: '2014-08-01 18:30:18'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Thanks. It\u2019s actually not the logo, but a supplementary symbol. It\u2019s
    for a small start-up. They haven\u2019t launched officially yet."
  created: '2014-08-01 20:59:46'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "I'm asking because I want to save it to my collection\u2014as I would consider
    myself a compulsive digital hoarder, as I save, rename and categorize just about
    everything I like\u2014and I don't know under which name to save it. If you're
    not comfortable giving the client's name I will just make up a name."
  created: '2014-08-01 21:27:18'
date: '2009-08-18 10:46:53'
node_type: forum
title: Optical sizes for logos?

---
