---
author:
  name: dan_reynolds
  picture: 110440
body: "Hello,\r\n\r\nI am considering removing the following glyphs from the character
  sets of fonts that I produce in the future (or not designing them at all for fonts
  I design in the future):\r\n\r\n1. Aringacute (U+01FA)\r\n2. AEacute (U+01FC)\r\n3.
  Oslashacute (U+01FE)\r\n4. aringacute (U+01FB)\r\n5. aeacute (U+01FD)\r\n6. oslashacute
  (U+01FF)\r\n7. dotlessj (U+0237)\r\n\r\nAside from the dotlessj, I had heard that
  the other glyphs were for Danish, but that they are not used in contemporary, written
  Danish. Can anyone point to references where they are used?\r\n\r\nAre any of these
  glyphs used in any other languages? If not, I do not feel that it is necessary to
  include them in standard character sets any further, as least as far as fonts that
  I produce go. I am not sure if their being in older character sets or in other fonts'
  character sets (from e.g., Microsoft? Adobe?) is a convincing enough argument. What
  do you think?"
comments:
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: AEacute/aeacute were used in Old English, though a macron is more common in
    modern renderings (and vowel length wasn't obligatorily indicated anyways). dotlessj
    exists, as far as I know, to provide support for floating diacritics.
  created: '2009-08-19 13:05:01'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: "Hi Dan\r\nI tried to get to the bottom of this one some years ago. The thing
    is that you have to call The Danish Language Council to get the info. The woman
    that was present at a conference in Iceland many years ago, where these lists
    were made, works there. The list I'm talking about is the one from Evertype [[http://www.evertype.com/alphabets/danish.pdf]].
    When I called she was on vacation, and then I moved out of the country. Try calling
    them and ask on +45 35 32 89 90. Office hours are mon-thur 10-12, and Friday 9.30-12.30.
    Let me know what they say. I have a feeling that those characters are redundant
    in Danish. I can't find any references of use in the Danish corpus [[http://ordnet.dk/ods/]]."
  created: '2009-08-19 14:05:39'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "I have never believed in the Aringacute and I have actually talked to a couple
    of danish people, they all say the same \u2013 it is NOT needed in the danish
    language. They have never seen it."
  created: '2009-08-19 15:07:39'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I\u2019m getting ready to kick 1 \u2013 6 out of the fonts I am working on
    right now and I don\u2019t have a clue about dotlessj. But I do think that some
    of these oddball characters raise an important issue that keeps coming up in conversations:
    font bloat. Why are font designers creating so many fonts with huge character
    sets to support languages we know nothing about? Are native speakers in northern,
    central, and eastern Europe using fonts from the US and Western Europe, or do
    they laugh at our wacky diacriticals and odd spacing? "
  created: '2009-08-19 15:14:50'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: 'I''ve had to set a j with an accent several times. From a comp''s point of
    view, we can make up anything needed (in setting the job) as long as we have the
    pieces -- so retaining the dotless j would be a plus. Otherwise, it''s FontLab
    & remake the font.  '
  created: '2009-08-19 15:33:57'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: "Aha, I had a hunch this was the case. A bit of extra research points to the
    characters being used for transliteration from other Nordic languages into Danish.
    It's described in <cite>Inter-Nordic group on Information Technology Standardization
    (INSTA/IT): Nordic Cultural Requirements on Information Technology. INSTA technical
    report STR\xCD TS3. Reykjavik: Icelandic Council for Standardization (STR\xCD)
    1992, ISBN 9979-9004-3-1, pp. 33-37</cite>"
  created: '2009-08-19 16:12:28'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: 'Sorry for the distraction: Charles, are the base glyphs (such as dotlessi
    and dotlessj) and diacritics which need to be kerned/moved over them useful to
    typesetters/compositors at all? What would you like to see included in fonts?'
  created: '2009-08-19 16:19:17'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "AEacute/aeacute and Oslashacute/oslashacute is used for modern scholarly
    transcription of Old Norse and Old Icelandic, marking distinctive opposition by
    quantity. The latter pair replaces the earlier OEacute/oeacute usage. Old Norse
    is still read and written by scholars and enthusiasts (myself included), and speakers
    of Icelandic and Faeroese (to some extent) can read it untranslated. \r\n\r\nEdit:
    [[http://www.edd.uio.no/perl/search/search.cgi?appid=86&tabid=1275|This]] shows
    a dictionary lookup for an Old Norse (\"norr\xF8nt\") dictionary hosted by the
    University of Oslo, with the \"weird\" characters available by input buttons.
    \ "
  created: '2009-08-19 16:25:14'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: So should these characters be supported in anything other than faces intended
    for text use? Does anyone ever buy display faces to use for Old Norse or transliterating
    Nordic languages into Danish? Or are people who use these languages doing small
    projects using system fonts?
  created: '2009-08-19 16:35:41'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Aw common, don't be so lazy!! The glyphs mentioned are about 2 minutes worth
    of work once you have your basic characters done.
  created: '2009-08-19 17:22:13'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "<em>Aw common, don\u2019t be so lazy!</em>\r\n\r\nMy thoughts exactly."
  created: '2009-08-19 17:27:37'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I try not to be lazy, James! But my colleagues and I are producing hundreds
    of fonts a year. So cutting out a few superfluous glyphs [if they are in fact
    not really necessary for our customers\u2026] from our character set would save
    some total testing time.\r\n\r\nPlus, we have to have some wacky ascender and
    line gap settings sometimes because of the Aringacute and its effect on a font's
    bounding box sometimes. So, I would not cry to see it go."
  created: '2009-08-19 18:09:10'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: You can leave out any character until a customer asks for it. :)
  created: '2009-08-19 18:21:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>are the base glyphs (such as dotlessi and dotlessj) and diacritics which
    need to be kerned/moved over them useful to typesetters/compositors at all?</em>\r\n\r\nNote:
    positioning of combining diacritics over bases is a GPOS anchor attachment lookup,
    not kerning. Kerning affects the position of all subsequent glyphs, while anchor
    attachment is mark-specific.\r\n\r\nThe value of supporting dotless variants of
    soft-dotted letters and combining marks depends on the target languages. There
    are lots of languages in the world that rely on such mechanisms, because Unicode
    only includes precomposed diacritic letters for backwards compatibility. In effect,
    this means that only major languages that were supported in pre-Unicode charsets
    get precomposed diacritics: everyone else relies on combining marks.\r\n\r\nMy
    clients request such things, but then they tend to be either involved in internationalisation
    or in scholarly publishing.\r\n\r\nOne thing I do strongly recommend is to include
    Unicode combining mark character support for any accents used in precomposed glyphs
    in your font, not just the subset spacing accents (which are also backwards compatibility
    characters) and use the combining mark glyphs as components in composites. This
    has two benefits: it means that all your diacritic components can have shared
    x,y coordinates, rather than having different offsets with some components based
    on spacing diacritics and some on non-spacing, and it means that if you do decide
    to add GPOS anchor attachments you can use the component offsets to give you a
    head start."
  created: '2009-08-19 18:29:19'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "I think it's pretty safe to let Aringacute go. I think it can be regarded
    as a hypothetical glyph, unlike Oslashacute and AEacute, which are both standard
    letters in Old Norse. All Danish vowels can in theory be emphasised by an acute,
    but I have never, ever seen \xC5 with an acute. In Norwegian and Swedish, only
    a, e and o can take acutes. "
  created: '2009-08-19 18:29:41'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: By the way, oogonek and oogonekacute (not oogonekmacron, as Unicode erroneously
    states) are also necessary to write Old Norse, so I guess it doesn't make sense
    to include oslashacute and aeslashacute unless your font support these glyphs.
  created: '2009-08-19 18:35:04'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "John -- <cite>There are lots of languages in the world that rely on such
    mechanisms, because Unicode only includes precomposed diacritic letters for backwards
    compatibility. In effect, this means that only major languages that were supported
    in pre-Unicode charsets get precomposed diacritics: everyone else relies on combining
    marks.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhich brings me back to my wish to avoid <em>all</em> precomposed
    diacritic letters (those that allow design-wise), play out the character/glyph
    distinction (rather than serving exactly one glyph per character and naming it
    so), and employ ccmp/mark/mkmk radically (rather than consider them as add-on).
    If only reality -- operating systems and applications -- were there yet ...\r\n\r\nGood
    to know about a/Aringacute."
  created: '2009-08-19 18:54:06'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "In addition to Dan's list, I wanted to know if anyone ever seen these signs
    in use too?\r\n\r\n8. \xA4 - Currency Sign (U+00A4)\r\n9. \u2030 - Permille /
    Per thousand (U+2030)\r\n\r\n\r\nPlus, a silly question: How do we access the
    Multiply Sign (\xD7) with a normal keyboard? :P"
  created: '2009-08-19 18:55:45'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I have seen the currency sign used in financial newspapers and <em>The Economist</em>
    a few times, but those publications are working with custom fonts. I can\u2019t
    find any evidence that Permille is ever used.  There was a conversations about
    these two on Facebook where Jonathan Hoefler pointed out that H&FJ had examined
    thousands of annual reports and never seen these characters used which is why
    they dropped them from their character set.\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-19 19:40:36'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: The per mille sign shows up a lot in scientific typesetting, for instance
    when talking about isotope fractionation.
  created: '2009-08-19 21:26:46'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>Sorry for the distraction: Charles, are the base glyphs (such as dotlessi
    and dotlessj) and diacritics which need to be kerned/moved over them useful to
    typesetters/compositors at all? What would you like to see included in fonts?</cite>\r\n\r\nIf
    you're a \"normal\" typesetter, yes, you need the base glyphs. All a typesetter
    can do is to laboriously make up the needed characters --  much as had to be done
    with a macron accent in the type 1 days.\r\n\r\nAt our shop, unless the occurrence
    of such characters is only once or twice in the job, we'll decline it if the designer
    insists on using a font where the EULA forbids modification. For fonts we can
    modify, our rule of thumb is the comps (both of them) are expected to make up
    such accented characters if they occur once or twice, otherwise, I'll make up
    the needed characters in the font, and write a ccmp feature if needed. It's all
    about what is fastest without leaving any little encoding or character lies in
    the final files."
  created: '2009-08-19 21:57:43'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: Blood alcohol content is always measured in per mille in Norway, and the per
    mille sign is quite often used in tables, statistics and news graphics about drunk
    driving. I <em>think</em> the same goes for Sweden and Denmark, but I'm not quite
    sure about that.
  created: '2009-08-19 22:01:19'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Concerning the general currency symbol: On French, Danish, Norwegian and
    Swedish/Finnish keyboards, \xA4 is accessible from any keyboard as shift-4, so
    it would be weird if that keystroke produced no character. Its supposed use is
    as a placeholder symbol when \u20A4 or \xA5 or \u20A1 or even weirder currency
    symbols are unavailable, as a sort of fallback symbol, right?"
  created: '2009-08-19 22:09:33'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "On the subject of units used in measuring small quantities, one good reason
    why the micro character \xB5 might sometimes benefit from being a distinct glyph
    from the Greek mu \u03BC is that it is combined with Latin g to indicate micrograms
    \xB5g. Less, commonly, it occurs with uppercase G in physics as an abbreviation
    for microgravity \xB5G."
  created: '2009-08-19 22:11:20'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: "<cite>I think the same goes for Sweden and Denmark, but I\u2019m not quite
    sure about that.</cite>\r\nYes, you most definitely need the 'promille' sign (as
    it is called in Danmark). It's used in statistics, physics, chemistry, economics,
    medicine and so on. That one can't be deleted."
  created: '2009-08-19 22:22:31'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Its supposed use is as a placeholder symbol when \u20A4 or \xA5 or
    \u20A1 or even weirder currency symbols are unavailable, as a sort of fallback
    symbol, right?</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, but how many people actually typeset that sort
    of thing? As I noted above, the only times I\u2019ve seen it used it was in newspapers
    that have custom fonts at their disposal."
  created: '2009-08-19 22:41:17'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The currency symbol (U+00A4) is a standard character in the Latin 1 character
    set and others; for that reason alone it should not be omitted from any font that
    claims to support that character set. Since the ANSI Latin 1 -- or a related codepage
    such as Windows CP 1252 -- is the first building block of pretty much any Latin
    script font, this character should be included in most fonts.\r\n\r\nIf you want
    to be discretionary in your support of characters that are not part of 8-bit codepages,
    and disagree with e.g. some inclusions in the WGL4 list (which deliberately errs
    on the side of inclusion), that's fine. But I recommend against cutting characters
    that are part of 8-bit codepages, if your font is going to claim support of those
    codepages in the OS/2 table."
  created: '2009-08-20 01:42:51'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "The currency symbol (U+00A4):\r\n\r\nI just love what Bringhurst (<em>EOTS</em>,
    p. 313) has to say about it: <em>Since the symbol is parasitic (it takes up space
    on the font but offers nothing in return), </em>louse<em> might be a better name.
    Having no true function, it has no authentic form.</em>"
  created: '2009-08-20 02:22:30'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Hmm... I'm going to have to be convinced that it is necessary to support Old
    Norse in 21st century fonts. Where is this language used, aside from scholarly
    publications? Are books still printed in it? How many websites out there are writen
    in the language? Are contemporary typefaces even appropriate for something like
    this?
  created: '2009-08-20 07:49:39'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: 'I agree, even if only for bad reasons: I am lazy and always in a hurry. Wouldn''t
    it be great if there was some reasonably authoritative table telling the lazier
    among us which glyphs can be skipped, say for faces that are not meant to be used
    for scholarly materials and such. For example, I have stopped putting the lozenge,
    product, integral and such into fonts that I myself would not want to use for
    a maths book, in spite of them being in MacOS Roman. Could someone more experienced
    and trustworthy provide such list? Is it worth starting a thread for this, and
    if so would someone please do it?'
  created: '2009-08-20 08:32:12'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Satyagraha, in a lot of fonts with a Finnish keyboard shift-4 brings out
    \u20AC, that weird currency ;^)"
  created: '2009-08-20 09:26:28'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Old Norse never really died out, as long as the written language is still
    understood by speakers of Icelandic and to a great extent Faeroese (even Norwegians
    and I think Swedes and Danes get the general idea when reading it, but the complex
    grammar is largely incomprehensible without some education). Written Icelandic
    is virtually indistinguishable from Old Norse, though the pronunciation is quite
    different and the vocabulary is vastly increased, almost exclusively building
    on Norse roots, not by importing loanwords. There is a huge body of literature
    written in Old Norse, the Kings' sagas (including the great works of Snorri Sturluson)
    and the Icelanders' sagas probably the most read today. These are still printed
    in their original language or in bilingual versions. I own several of them. \r\nOld
    Norse is still taught in the Norwegian equivalent of high school (at least, it
    was when I attended).\r\nThere are several web pages containing Old Norse texts,
    most of them suffer for lack of proper glyph support. \r\n\r\n[[http://etext.old.no|Just]]\r\n[[http://www.northvegr.org/language.php#norse|some]]
    \r\n[[http://www.onp.hum.ku.dk/litindex.html|very quick]] \r\n[[http://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Poetic_Edda/V%C3%B6lusp%C3%A1_I|links]]\r\n\r\nA
    Google search of \"hljo\xF0s bi\xF0 ek allar\", the opening stanza of Volusp\xE1
    in normalised Old Norse ortography, returns 927 hits, while a Google search for
    \"Mieleni minun tekevi aivoni ajattelevi\", the opening stanza of the Finnish
    national epos Kalevala, written in modern Finnish, returns 1200 hits.\r\n  "
  created: '2009-08-20 09:37:04'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "@mili: Yes, the placement of the glyph only refers to the Norwegian keyboard.
    My bad. But can you write the \xA4 with your Finnish keyboard? "
  created: '2009-08-20 09:40:54'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: Satyagraha, I can't find it straight on my mac, only through character or
    glyph palettes.
  created: '2009-08-20 10:25:51'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: OK, the dotlessj is going to stay in, but I think that the other six glyphs
    are coming out. Thanks for the input everybody!
  created: '2009-08-20 13:51:57'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Mili, [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Keyboard_layout#Finnish|a little research]]
    shows that Finland now has a new keyboard standard with \u20AC on Shift+4, whereas
    Finland and Sweden before the new standard used identical keyboards with \xA4
    on Shift+4.  "
  created: '2009-08-20 13:54:24'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: Thanks Satyagraha, there's always something new to learn!
  created: '2009-08-20 15:01:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "But do Old Norse scholars, and Old Norse publishers, actually buy commercial
    fonts?\r\n\r\nScholars and scholastic publishers, it seems to me, want every obscure
    character/glyph ever used, and if a character is not in a system font will make
    hacks or acquire freeware fonts made by other scholars, rather than buy fonts.
    \r\n\r\nI beg to differ with James: it can consume significant time to add a character
    to a typeface: upper case, lower case, small caps, all the weights, roman and
    italic--it adds up."
  created: '2009-08-20 16:11:20'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "There's a lot of truth in that, Nick. Twenty years of no choice has made
    and hardened that habit. I think the situation would have been quite different
    if scholars had ever had a choice. Medi\xE6valists today still don't, the only
    typefaces I know of to fully support Old Norse are Gentium and Junicode, both
    made by scholars, I think, and both freeware. \r\n\r\nHow do we chose what parts
    of Unicode not to support in our typefaces? Are all those weird and ugly African
    glyphs in Latin Additional 2 really needed? What about the archaic Greek and Cyrillic
    characters? Why do we still support Polytonic Greek, when that orthography is
    deprecated?"
  created: '2009-08-20 16:34:21'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>How do we chose what parts of Unicode not to support in our typefaces?</cite>\r\n\r\nBy
    focusing on users who actually buy our fonts and supporting languages we actually
    have a clue about. I really don\u2019t know why I keep worrying about Central
    and Eastern European character support, because I\u2019m not selling fonts there
    and I don\u2019t have the inclination to build a library of publications from
    those regions to compare my work to. As I said above, for all I know I\u2019m
    just wasting time building characters for people who are just laughing at the
    ignorant efforts of some guy whose knowledge of their alphabet was picked up entirely
    from four web sites."
  created: '2009-08-20 17:02:44'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'I would be inclined to map a $ sign to all of those code-points. Then if
    customers want them its pretty clear as to what they need to do. You could go
    a step further and draw a [$50] glyph, although the fee might change subject to
    inflation.  '
  created: '2009-08-20 17:56:45'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>I really don\u2019t know why I keep worrying about Central and Eastern
    European character support, because I\u2019m not selling fonts there</cite>\r\n\r\nIf
    you build it they will come!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-20 18:03:58'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Si, in our case, that would be a Euro sign\u2026 but I quite like the idea
    :-)\r\n\r\nJames (Puckett), I hear your pain! But CE and Eastern European language
    support is essential. Really, Cyrillic is too. These are languages and countries
    that cannot be ignored. The comparison with Old Norse is not apt. Of course, official
    Norwegian, Icelandic, Danish, Swedish, etc., are 100% essential to support. As
    are the official languages of all other European countries. But archaic, unofficial
    languages are another matter. Of course, we'd be happy to build in special support
    to any of our fonts if a customer would commission that. But I don't think that
    Old Norse (sorry, I don't want to pick on this language too much!) publishers
    represent a significant portion of our customer base.\r\n\r\nIt isn't just licensing
    to customers in Poland, Hungary, Romania, Latvia, Bulgaria, Russia, etc. It is
    licensing to companies down the street in Frankfurt who sell their products to
    consumers in those countries or do business there otherwise. I know that it might
    be a little different in New York, but we are long past the discussion-phase as
    far as these languages go. One can still decide not to support them at their peril,
    though."
  created: '2009-08-20 18:24:43'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>I\u2019m just wasting time building characters for people who are just
    laughing at the ignorant efforts of some guy</em>...\r\n\r\nwelcome to the world
    of typeface design\r\n\r\nDan, have you had a look at the Adobe Latin Extended
    character sets?\r\nhttp://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/2008/08/extended_latin.html\r\n\r\nIn
    these the first six of your glyphs are relegated to the AL5 glyph set. The dotless
    j belongs to AL4 set, which is used for families with extensive language support
    on the scale of Arno & Hypatia."
  created: '2009-08-20 18:55:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...the only typefaces I know of to fully support Old Norse are Gentium
    and Junicode...</em>\r\n\r\nWhat should be added to those characters listed in
    the wiki entry?\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Old_Norse_alphabet"
  created: '2009-08-20 19:18:45'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: Oogonekacute/oogonekacute and AEacute/aeacute.
  created: '2009-08-20 19:37:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "AEacute is in Latin Extended A, but not Oogonekacute.\r\n\r\nSo, Oogonekacute
    would be more useful than Aringacute...."
  created: '2009-08-20 20:51:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "re. Adobe character sets.\r\n\r\nLooks like there is no standard for fonts,
    just each foundry coming up with its own encodings, and the users having to cope
    with that.\r\n\r\nPerhaps Unicode could have done a better job of making its code
    pages practical."
  created: '2009-08-20 21:03:12'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Definitely. Aringacute is hypothetical, oogonekacute is not. In fact, Oogonekacute/oogoenacute
    is not in Unicode at all, they are erroneously rendered as Oogonekmacron/oogonekmacron
    (u+01EC/u+U1ED). Those characters have no use in any language I've ever heard
    of. Therefore, Private Use Area u+E20C/u+E60C have become unofficial standard
    encodings for Oogonekacute/oogonekacute amongst medi\xE6valist-hackers."
  created: '2009-08-20 21:06:02'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>These are languages and countries that cannot be ignored.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhy
    not? Why does it make more sense for me to try and support languages with no clue
    whether or not I\u2019m doing it right than to leave that level of language support
    to companies like Linotype that can employ designers trained in such matters?
    Why aren\u2019t I better off to spend my time doing a better job on languages
    I know about instead of burning up hours on stuff about which I\u2019m clueless?"
  created: '2009-08-20 21:14:03'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: I'd only remark that if you don't support certain languages, it becomes a
    self-fulfilling prophecy that those who use them won't by your fonts. Sadly, the
    reverse is not true . . .
  created: '2009-08-20 22:09:55'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>\u2026it becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy that those who use them
    won\u2019t by your fonts.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat much is obvious. My point is that
    if I\u2019m not doing the language support correctly in the first place, am I
    really doing anyone a favor by selling the font? "
  created: '2009-08-20 22:20:39'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: just do it correctly in the first place. typophile is a great resource that
    links in many cases to other resources that can help you educate yourself on such
    matters. for example, you might start with [[eth]] in the [[characters]] wiki...
  created: '2009-08-20 22:58:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Sindre--even if I were to include Oogonekacute in a typeface, would scholars
    buy it, or would they think that something else, such as insular g, was missing?\r\n\r\nI
    have actually included what I na\xEFvely assume to be support for Old English,
    Middle English, and Gothic Transliteration in the Modern Suite fonts (all weights
    and small caps), but AFAIK have not yet sold any fonts to the scholastic market.
    Admittedly, they might not be aware the Modern Suite exists, so how would I go
    about publicizing it?"
  created: '2009-08-20 22:58:16'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: 'hmmm, bad example on my part. i guess i have to more wiki-ing, but there
    IS a page for links to drawing international characters: http://typophile.com/node/20276'
  created: '2009-08-20 22:59:54'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Nick\u2014your first question is a hard one. I really don't know. Scholars
    and scientists are never satisfied with anything. That's why they're scholars
    and scientists. \r\n\r\nIf I were you, I would approach the relevant linguistic
    institutes of larger universities, the more prestigious, the better, and tell
    them I can solve their transcription problems once and for all. Make a highbrow-looking
    type specimen, with complex texts set in languages relevant to them. Send it by
    ordinary mail. Give them a telephone call subsequently. If you at all can stand
    being a salesman. \r\n\r\nWhen some prestigious language institutes all of a sudden
    starts publishing much better looking papers, word-of-mouth and academic envy
    will work its magic. Possibly.\r\n\r\nRegarding your wonderful Modern Suite, you'd
    have another selling point in that the Scotch Micro will make their notes <em>so</em>
    much more legible. \r\n"
  created: '2009-08-20 23:33:50'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Quick note on OpenType spec requirements. If a font claims "code page" support
    it should contain all the characters in that code page. If it claims "Unicode
    range" support then it should include functional coverage for that range, and
    what constitutes functional is at the type designers discretion.   '
  created: '2009-08-20 23:39:00'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "<cite>Scholars and scholastic publishers, it seems to me, want every obscure
    character/glyph ever used, and if a character is not in a system font will make
    hacks or acquire freeware fonts made by other scholars, rather than buy fonts.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    scholars generally won't buy them; they'll use Gentium. But the publishers do
    buy fonts, and they do take glyph coverage into account, as long as someone who
    knows typesetting has any say in the matter. For example, one publisher I've worked
    for a fair amount chose Minion Pro for their house style several years ago, specifically
    because they need a well-integrated polytonic Greek for a lot of their books.
    The same logic applies to Scotch Modern, but it's also more distinctive."
  created: '2009-08-21 02:19:09'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Sindre, I'm coming up on halfway through a two-year development of a set
    of fonts for the venerable academic publisher Brill. The current intent is for
    these fonts to be made freely available to scholars. They're the most extensive
    fonts I've made, and mediaevalist usage is one of the targeted fields.\r\n\r\nBrill
    recently made some information about this project public via their annual report.\r\nhttp://brill.nl/downloads/brillText.pdf\r\n\r\n[I'm
    not responsible for the sheep-stealer subhead settings.]"
  created: '2009-08-21 03:53:53'
- author:
    name: Chris_Harvey
  body: 'The oogonekmacron is used in Kaska Dene (northwestern Canada). That said,
    there are a bunch of other vowel-diacritic combos in that language which require
    combining diacritics: a-ogonek-macron-acute. The oogonek, however, is very important
    for many indigenous languages in the Americas, notably Navajo.'
  created: '2009-08-21 06:57:38'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: 'John, that''s fabulous news! That''s a <em>brill</em>iant typeface. Is there
    an approximate release date yet? '
  created: '2009-08-21 13:45:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Aringacute is a test for getting into the NBA.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-08-21 17:13:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: John, will Brill have small caps and optical sizes for footnotes?
  created: '2009-08-21 18:19:30'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I should complete work on the Brill types in October 2010.\r\n\r\nNick, yes,
    the Brill types will have full smallcaps, plus a range of different numeral styles,
    symbols for critical apparatus, fraktur, and a pile of other stuff either already
    used in Brill publications or anticipated. Also GPOS mark-to-base and mark-to-mark
    positioning for arbitrary diacritics.\r\n\r\nThere won't be an optical size for
    footnotes, because the budget wasn't available, but Brill's standard footnote
    size is not very small. Their standard text is 11 cicero points and their notes
    and captions are 9 cicero points. So I'm designing the type to work well at both
    sizes."
  created: '2009-08-21 18:45:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "That leaves a bit of a window for retail scholastic types: sans serif, and
    footnotes.\r\n\r\nBut otherwise, a blanket \"non-commercial\" licence for Brill
    will effectively kill any potential scholastic market for fonts, if freeware and
    Adobe and Microsoft bundling haven't already done so.\r\n\r\nHowever, distribution
    via  \"fonts on CD with book\" might play out differently."
  created: '2009-08-21 19:24:30'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>a blanket \u201Cnon-commercial\u201D licence for Brill will effectively
    kill any potential scholastic market for fonts</em>\r\n\r\nOnly among individual
    scholars. The market among publishers would remain.\r\n\r\nBrill have not finalised
    their plans for how to release the fonts."
  created: '2009-08-22 00:10:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "FWIW, certain types of street signs in LA have the \"i\" and the \"j\" sans
    dot.\r\n\r\nDan, contemporary?\r\nPeople set non-contemporary stuff all the time
    (pardon the pun).\r\n\r\nSatya, I've seen both of those in use.\r\n\r\n>> \"Having
    no true function, it has no authentic form.\"\r\n\r\nThat's b-s on so many levels.\r\n\r\n>
    I would be inclined to map a $ sign to all of those code-points. \r\n\r\nPlus
    an email address.\r\nOr better yet: when you try to enter a missing character
    you\r\nautomatically get hooked up to a live chat with the foundry!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-22 00:34:06'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>FWIW, certain types of street signs in LA have the \u201Ci\u201D and
    the \u201Cj\u201D sans dot.</cite>\r\n\r\nDo you mean as an effect or in support
    of a non-english languages?"
  created: '2009-08-22 01:26:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No, that's the standard they follow. I'm talking about\r\nlarge, official
    highway signs. I'll post an image soon.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-22 02:48:58'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">No, that\u2019s the standard they follow.\r\n\r\nMaybe the dots were stolen?
    \ "
  created: '2009-08-22 02:59:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Only among individual scholars.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's not the scholastic
    market!\r\nThe primary (potential) scholastic market for fonts is not publishers,
    but educational institutions, and the scholars are faculty and students, who could
    buy (licence) the fonts they use, just as they or their institution buy the books
    they use.\r\nA non-commercial licence of Brill fonts for students and faculty
    (assuming faculty are \"non-commercial\") would make Brill books a first-choice
    for mandatory text-books, but wouldn't Brill be ignoring a profit-centre in not
    charging for fonts? \r\n\r\nThis is difficult to think all the way through, but
    one would assume that other publishers will develop their own 6000-character non-commercial
    scholastic fonts, to stay in the game. If their fonts aren't as good as the Brill
    fonts, or are \"similar to\", then scholars (and institutions) who haven't bought
    Brill books will be able to use superior quality Brill fonts and not buy Brill
    books.\r\n\r\nHow about bundling \"fonts on CD with book purchase\"? That would
    consolidate everyone's understanding of the fonts' dual function in textbook and
    in student work."
  created: '2009-08-22 03:19:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Nick, I'll mention all these ideas as options when I meet with the Brill people
    later this year. Brill's idea in making fonts available to scholars would be a)
    to aid scholarship, something that they've been doing in various ways for 325
    years and b) to attract scholars to publish with Brill. Fonts on CD with book
    purchase adds a cost for Brill, and restricts legitimate use of the fonts in a
    way that Brill might not see as beneficial. Anyway, I think all ideas are on the
    table at this stage.
  created: '2009-08-22 03:51:06'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I tend to agree with Nick on this one. As a newbie font designer I find myself
    quite disinclined to go near large character sets if I have to compete not only
    with Robert Slimbach\u2019s bundled designs, but also with free fonts by Tiro.
    Of course, given the budget for scholarly work, that might be entirely irrelevant."
  created: '2009-08-22 04:46:55'
- author:
    name: farquart
  body: '...gravy sucking pigs...'
  created: '2009-08-22 06:03:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Well, scholars may get their fonts for free, but it's hardly their fault,
    and they are under no moral obligation to buy commercial fonts.\r\n\r\nSimilarly,
    small, independent foundries are under no moral obligation to become ragged-trousered
    philanthropists, providing character sets for markets that don't buy enough fonts
    to make a return on the investment required.\r\n\r\nThose who do support minority
    encodings in their fonts have their own agendas: Brill wants to prosper in the
    academic publishing market; Microsoft and Adobe want to help sell their big money-makers
    (systems and applications); SIL (Gentium) is a religious organization; and freeware
    fonts created by academics are done on company time, to facilitate their work."
  created: '2009-08-22 16:59:41'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "James, if you stick to display fonts, you do not have to worry about Old
    Norse or scholars IMHO. Then there is my rather naive assumption that if I include
    cyrillics in a font that becomes popular by some fluke, I'd be encouraging thousands
    more visitors for the pirate sites in Russia.\r\n\r\nNick, I agree with your position,
    but fear that the horse has bolted already."
  created: '2009-08-23 01:28:01'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "Is there any need for \u0138 kgreenlandic 0138 or \u0149 napostrophe 0149
    in display fonts?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-23 02:14:50'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: "<cite>Is there any need for \u0138 kgreenlandic 0138 or \u0149 napostrophe
    0149 in display fonts?</cite>\r\nNo"
  created: '2009-08-23 02:25:51'
- author:
    name: gaultney
    picture: 112764
  body: "<cite>But otherwise, a blanket \u201Cnon-commercial\u201D licence for Brill
    will effectively kill any potential scholastic market for fonts, if freeware and
    Adobe and Microsoft bundling haven\u2019t already done so.</cite>\r\n\r\nActually,
    the Brill fonts prove the opposite. We (SIL) have a number of freely available
    fonts (Gentium and others) that do a reasonable job of meeting most scholars'
    need for linguistic Latin fonts. Brill took a good look at them, and decided that
    there were particular publishing needs that our fonts did not attempt to meet.
    So Brill decided to spend good money to hire an expert designer to spend months
    creating a new type family, and make them available to the publishing community.
    The existence of free fonts did not harm the market, but rather stimulated more
    commissioned work to fill in the existing gaps. \r\n\r\nThis is a benefit for
    everyone. Scholars get a wider variety of 'standard' fonts to use for research
    and publishing. Brill gets great PR and goodwill, and very likely a richer base
    of authors. Typographers may get better-quality fonts to use when typesetting
    odd academic texts. Designers get more fonts to study as they try to figure out
    what rather odd letters are 'supposed' to look like. Overall, the typographic
    quality of academic publications gets a boost.\r\n\r\nNeither the Brill fonts,
    or ours, will meet all the needs. There will still be room for more work by professional
    designers. There may even be increased demand, as other publishers want to get
    into the game, and as the academic community grows in their appreciation for fine
    typography and fine type design.\r\n\r\nI never used to spend money on beer -
    a result of growing up around mediocre American stuff. I didn't even like it when
    it was free at a party. After a few friends here in England bought me pints of
    English Real Ale, I got used to how good a beer could get, and now find myself
    making special visits to my favourite brewery. A free bit of the Good Stuff can
    develop a habit of paying for more of it. "
  created: '2009-08-23 13:39:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>The existence of free fonts did not harm the market, but rather stimulated
    more commissioned work to fill in the existing gaps.</em>\r\n\r\nI was referring
    to the market for fonts, not commissioned work.\r\n\r\nThe idea that flooding
    potential consumers with free product somehow stimulates the market is erroneous:
    while a small percentage of users may be interested enough to go out and buy something
    different than the bulk of their peers, it's a minority sale achieved at the cost
    of surrendering the bulk of the market. This situation may seem to benefit consumers,
    but it impoverishes content production in general, channelling it into the hands
    of a small group of commissioned workers who may be well paid, but undermining
    the potential greater income to be made from creative work by spreading it around.
    After all, you can't make money from something you don't own. The real money is
    in the mass market. \r\n\r\nDo consumers benefit from the situation where content
    producers are not making mass sales? No, because they still have to pay for media,
    whether it be digital devices or internet access. So \"free\" digital product
    just shifts profit from the creative sector to the hardware sector (and that includes
    Internet access).\r\n\r\nAnd ultimately, all consumers are content creators. So
    if, as a consumer, you play the game where you get free creative content, you
    are endorsing a system that restricts your ability to derive income from creative
    work.\r\n\r\nBeyond that, creative work gets redefined, stripping its value, becoming
    craft and production work that is bought outright by manufacturers, rather than
    warranting \"points\".\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-23 16:35:36'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "<cite>Is there any need for \u0138 kgreenlandic [...]</cite>\r\n\r\nKgreenlandic
    (\"kra\") was deprecated in 1973, and replaced with q. "
  created: '2009-08-23 17:25:10'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "<cite>Brill gets great PR and goodwill, and very likely a richer base of
    authors.</cite>\r\n\r\nNot to spoil the party, but I would prefer that Brill lowered
    its excessive subscription prices for the poorer institutions in the Third World.
    THAT would be great PR.\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-08-23 21:20:34'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: Commission a custom font from a top designer, making this font freely available,
    <em>and</em> lower their prices? You think they won the lottery?
  created: '2009-08-23 22:14:14'
- author:
    name: David W. Goodrich
  body: "I'm with Mr. Gaultney.  We've had the font wars and the browser wars, now
    we're supposed to believe that Brill will squirrel the academic market for type
    if they do not charge for non-commercial use of their new font?  Or at least ruin
    that fraction of the market not already ruined by the big boys' bundling of high-quality
    fonts with operating systems and design apps?  I earn my living setting linguistically-challenging
    type, occasionally for Brill, and the appearance of this font will make it easier
    to replace my services.  Happily, not everyone wants their publications to look
    like Brill's.  Style still counts.\r\n\r\nDavid"
  created: '2009-08-24 16:20:07'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>A free bit of the Good Stuff can develop a habit of paying for more
    of it.</cite>\r\n\r\nI wonder how much good beer you would be willing to buy if
    the free stuff your friends turned you on to continued to flow from a tap in your
    kitchen, and never ran out?"
  created: '2009-08-24 16:34:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Some people don't drink lousy beer (like American, Canadian\r\nand Italian)
    even if it's free and flowing. Now, if you PAID me...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-24 17:05:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...the appearance of this font will make it easier to replace my services.
    </em>\r\n\r\nThen surely it would be in your interests if the font had to be sought
    out and purchased, a disincentive to cheap and cutthroat competition.\r\n\r\n<em>...not
    everyone wants their publications to look like Brill\u2019s.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    a point I've already made. The majority of users standardize on the free product,
    while a minority pay to be different.\r\nThe retail market is squeezed to the
    sidelines, the bell curve distorted."
  created: '2009-08-24 17:07:32'
- author:
    name: David W. Goodrich
  body: "Those involved in scholarly publishing have been hearing that the sky is
    falling so long now that we cannot help but take new threats with a certain equanimity.
    \ As for \"cheap and cutthroat\" competition, the usual strategy is to offer something
    better.  Of course, one of the things we all appreciate about the font John Hudson
    is working on is that it isn't cheap (assuming he isn't some weirdo \"ragged-trousered
    philanthropist\").\r\n\r\nAs for John's work ever becoming a \"profit center\"
    for Brill, I have my doubts.  It doesn't take a genius to suppose that Brill commissioned
    the font to simplify their production of scholarly material covering a very wide
    range of subject areas and languages (more subtle is the need control licensing
    for use in their on-line publications).  Limiting the font's free distribution
    to published authors isn't practical: authors of books and articles not yet written
    are just as deserving -- and one hopes there will be sufficient scholarly \"competition\"
    so that poorer mss. can be rejected.  Bert Vanderveen has already referred to
    Brill's prices as limiting readership, and many with access to an institutional
    subscription forego a personal purchase, especially when on-line is so convenient:
    does Brill want to look like they're trying to squeeze something extra out of
    individuals already accustomed to reading for free?  I suspect they'd rather enjoy
    the gratitude of having made a tool developed for their own benefit available
    to anyone interested (where most of that category is both a prospective customer
    and makes library recommendations).\r\n\r\nThen there's the current economic situation.
    \ But even here, beer offers us hope: according to this morning's <a href=\"http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=112164683\">National
    Public Radio</a>, here in the U.S. craft beer (less than 2 million barrels per
    annum) is doing better despite the downturn.  Anheuser-Busch may control much
    of the market, but there is room for competition based on quality.\r\n\r\nDavid"
  created: '2009-08-24 19:47:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> one of the things we all appreciate about the font\r\n> John Hudson is
    working on is that it isn\u2019t cheap\r\n\r\nWhat's cheap and not cheap?\r\nHow
    much is Brill paying for the font(s)?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-24 22:21:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW, I'm not trying to be too clever. If this information is supposed to\r\nbe
    confidential, please ignore my question (at least the second one).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-25 00:46:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...the usual strategy is to offer something better.</em>\r\n\r\nI'll
    play that game if I have to, but I don't like the way big business bends the rules."
  created: '2009-08-25 00:52:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Bends? Big business MAKES the rules.\r\nThe rest is carefully crafted illusion.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-25 01:41:59'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Of course this information is confidential, Hrant; however, as Mr Goodrich
    assumes correctly, I am not some weirdo ragged-trouser philanthropist.\r\n\r\nThere
    are plenty of economic benefits to a company like Brill commissioning its own
    typeface at this time, in terms of simplifying the author-editor-production workflow,
    standardising on Unicode text processing, etc. The new type is also more space
    efficient than the Baskerville they have been using for a long time, and based
    on testing to date we gain a line or two per page, which over the length of a
    book, size of a print run and number of books they publish every year will reduce
    their paper costs per annum. I suspect the folks at Brill who approved the project
    have a pretty good idea of how long it will take to pay for itself."
  created: '2009-08-25 04:37:08'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>The retail market is squeezed to the sidelines, the bell curve
    distorted.</em>\r\n\r\nThis seems to assume that the retail font licensing market
    is naturally the central business of type, and hence something that marginalises
    this market is a distortion. I'd counter that the retail market as we know it
    is a recent phenomenon, invented in the latter 20th century during the phototype
    period. Prior to that, the manufacturing costs led to a closer balance of custom
    and off-the-shelf type purchase, with even the latter necessarily calculated as
    an investment cost for most customers. I make my living designing custom typefaces.
    I don't engage in the retail market at all, and I make no apologies about that:
    I reject the notion that there is something normal or preferred in the retailing
    of fonts, or that this market deserves some kind of protection."
  created: '2009-08-25 04:55:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...the retail market as we know it is a recent phenomenon...</em>\r\n\r\nI
    was comparing revenue from the volume retail sale of pre-designed fonts with revenue
    from custom work for single clients.\r\nIn that sense, font retailing has been
    going on a long time, as founders sold their type to printers in the days of letterpress.\r\n\r\n<em>I
    reject the notion that there is something normal or preferred in the retailing
    of fonts, </em>\r\n\r\nI agree, I don't think either custom or retail work is
    more normal or preferred. BTW, I make a significant part of my living from custom
    work.\r\n\r\nHowever, is it fair that retail font manufacturers have to compete
    with custom fonts that are given away free (e.g. bundled) to help promote some
    other product such as computer operating systems (Microsoft), software applications
    (Adobe), and now books (Brill)? \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-25 05:52:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...or that this market deserves some kind of protection.</em>\r\n\r\nIt's
    not markets that deserve protection, but people, hence the fact that most governments
    have laws against unfair trade practices, to protect mom and pop shops from big
    business.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-25 05:53:48'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Nick,\r\n\r\nYou do realise the font is targeted at a very small and highly
    specialized market? I don't think Brill expects to see menus and business cards
    using their font. (OTOH, it seems they wouldn't be able to do <em>anything</em>
    against that.)\r\n\r\n.. if the IPA characters were supported in more fonts, like,
    say, Danish or Icelandic characters (not <em>too</em> outrageous), they wouldn't
    need to commission a specialty font .."
  created: '2009-08-25 09:59:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...the font is targeted at a very small and highly specialized market?</em>\r\n\r\nWhether
    or not a business practice is unfair has nothing to do with its scale."
  created: '2009-08-25 16:23:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>.. if the ... characters were supported in more fonts ... they wouldn\u2019t
    need to commission a specialty font </em>\r\n\r\nMy concern is that academics
    have no incentive to pay to licence my Modern Suite fonts, which contain support
    for at least one \"ancient\" language (Polytonic Greek), when they have ready
    access to Polytonic Greek fonts from large corporations that are not foundries
    (Adobe and Brill).\r\n\r\nAre Greek scholars (as opposed to publishers) a viable
    font market? Why shouldn't they pay for their fonts?\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-25 16:35:07'
- author:
    name: David W. Goodrich
  body: If they choose to do so, many academics can pay for your fonts, and a surprising
    variety of other things (such as espresso machines), with the funny money of research
    grants.  Style still counts.
  created: '2009-08-25 17:21:27'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick:<em>However, is it fair that retail font manufacturers have to compete
    with custom fonts that are given away free (e.g. bundled) to help promote some
    other product such as computer operating systems (Microsoft), software applications
    (Adobe), and now books (Brill)?</em>\r\n\r\nPlenty of fonts suitable for English
    text are available free or bundled, and that doesn't seem to have killed the market
    for retail font licensing. The market is relatively small, but then it always
    has been: the people who actually spend money on fonts are professional designers,
    typographers and publishers. Personally, I think cross-licensing and the subsequent
    commodification of retail <em>pricing</em> had a much greater impact than bundling.
    Small foundries are not competing in the retail market against the availability
    of free and bundled non-retail fonts: they're competing against companies with
    large libraries flogging each others fonts for peanuts.\r\n\r\nIs there a viable
    scholarly market for retail font licensing, i.e. is there a sufficient paying
    market to cover the costs of developing specialised fonts? I'm not sure that there
    is. Certainly, a company like Brill -- which is hardly a \u2018large corportation\u2019,
    Nick -- finds itself in need of commissioning custom types precisely because no
    off-the-shelf fonts support everything that they need to support. Having made
    the decision to invest a large sum of money in custom font development, you can
    hardly blame them for looking at ways in which to maximise the benefits of that
    investment. That said, I'm happy to raise your concerns when I go to Leiden in
    November and discuss plans for the fonts with Brill's director."
  created: '2009-08-25 18:40:01'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "I had a pleasure to advise an academic client on the question of fonts recently
    and they ended up with Andron Mega. The person in charge of the project wanted
    old style figures, and their old font TNR didn't have them. The glyph coverage
    was a major issue.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.signographie.de/cms/front_content.php?idart=215"
  created: '2009-08-25 19:41:12'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "<cite>Are Greek scholars (as opposed to publishers) a viable font market?
    Why shouldn\u2019t they pay for their fonts?</cite>\r\n\r\nAs someone who works
    with classical scholars, I think I can say that the answer is \"no\". There might
    be an odd individual here or there who has enough publishing or design background
    to care about fonts, but for the most part if Gentium or Cardo is out there for
    free, they see no reason to pay for Arno Pro or the Modern Suite. They use Word,
    not InDesign, and they use whatever fonts came installed on their system, except
    when they need special glyphs (thus Cardo, for example). Classical scholars, and
    university departments of classics, and especially classics students, tend not
    to have very much money. They'll spend it on books first, and considering how
    much books from Brill cost, there won't be any money left over for fonts ;)"
  created: '2009-08-25 20:41:29'
date: '2009-08-19 12:53:59'
node_type: forum
title: Are these glyphs *really* used in any languages?

---
