---
author:
  name: Raumschiff
body: "It's true. \r\n\r\nIKEA abandons ~50 years of Futura and Century Schoolbook
  for \u2026 Verdana. \r\nIn an interview with swedish design magazine CAP&DESIGN
  the reason for the change is to be able to use the same font i all countries, including
  asian countries. Also they want to be able to give the same visual impression both
  in print and the web. \r\n\r\nFor me it's a sad day. \r\nWhat are your thoughts
  on this matter?"
comments:
- author:
    name: sandrosandro
    picture: 112363
  body: "Stingy owner (Ingvar Kamprad), stingy solution :D.\r\n\r\n_\r\n\r\nSandro"
  created: '2009-08-21 11:19:53'
- author:
    name: Raumschiff
  body: "Here are some images to show before and after:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/beforeandafter_4103.jpg]\r\nFrom
    [[http://pleasecopyme.blogg.se/2009/august/nytt-ikea-typsnitts-val-forvanar-for-att-int.html|Please
    Copy Me]]"
  created: '2009-08-21 12:08:49'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">For me it\u2019s a sad day. What are your thoughts on this matter?\r\n\r\nAt
    least they are tracking it.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-08-21 12:13:09'
- author:
    name: Raumschiff
  body: Well, even if I'm no big fan of Verdana, I don't hate it. It's a well designed
    font for texts on monitors. But for a full out print catalogue, signs, print ads
    etc?
  created: '2009-08-21 12:26:44'
- author:
    name: Raumschiff
  body: 'ravel: He he! :D'
  created: '2009-08-21 12:27:50'
- author:
    name: sandrosandro
    picture: 112363
  body: "Font for monitor use should stay on monitors, generally speaking. It has
    its purpose and this applying to whole wide spectrum of use for print is pretty
    disputable.\r\n_\r\n\r\nSandro"
  created: '2009-08-21 13:10:06'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I got the new catalog last night and I was quite surprised at the change.
    It didn\u2019t occur to me that they were actually using Verdana, I thought it
    had to at least be a custom knockoff. Futura looked much better."
  created: '2009-08-21 14:39:38'
- author:
    name: schickele
    picture: 109579
  body: For those of you who read German, same discussion [[http://www.fontblog.de/ikea-katalog-2010-verdana-ersetzt-futura|here]].
  created: '2009-08-21 15:43:17'
- author:
    name: J-Gray
  body: I wonder if they are going to start selling furniture at Wal-Mart now too...
  created: '2009-08-21 16:07:06'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Verdana is the new Univers too ;-)\r\n\r\nhttp://fontfeed.com/archives/typographic-relaunch-for-audi/\r\n\r\n>I
    thought it had to at least be a custom knockoff. \r\n\r\nIt's the real thing.
    The agency working on the re-design checked in with us on this.  "
  created: '2009-08-21 16:38:39'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I really like Verdana...as a screen face...for body text.\r\n\r\nNo so much
    as a display face. "
  created: '2009-08-21 16:42:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...they want to be able to give the same visual impression both in print
    and the web</em>\r\n\r\nAt least they didn't pick Helvetica.\r\nHowever, they
    are undermining the uniqueness of their brand, and given the emergence of \"@fontface\",
    this solution to print/media divergence may soon be obsolete."
  created: '2009-08-21 17:17:21'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>No so much as a display face.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s what made me
    think it had to be custom work. I just couldn\u2019t imagine a serious catalog
    design employing a screen text face for printed display work. I really think that
    this is a nasty case of a business being cheap. Ikea is one of the world\u2019s
    largest and most successful corporations; the only reason the founder\u2019s family
    are not among the world\u2019s wealthiest billionaires is that Sweden\u2019s progressive
    taxation encouraged them to transfer ownership to a charity. For Ikea commissioning
    a complete international Futura family with optical styles would still be a drop
    in the bucket. For a company that constantly touts it\u2019s own staff designers
    to go this route is pretty pathetic."
  created: '2009-08-21 18:03:50'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "It's natural for members of this forum to want to see companies employ type
    designers to make custom fonts, rather than the bundled stuff they get for free.
    I actually referred the agency on to Ascender with a suggestion that they work
    on custom styles. But can we be critical of a company wanting to save money, and
    pass on those savings to their customers? That seems like the IKEA way. \r\n\r\n
    \ "
  created: '2009-08-21 18:17:44'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>But can we be critical of a company wanting to save money, and pass
    on those savings to their customers?</cite>\r\n\r\nThere\u2019s a difference between
    financial pragmatism and just being cheap. The value of the Ikea brand has got
    to be tremendous, and they\u2019ve spent decades and billions of dollars getting
    there. Changing to Verdana has given Ikea\u2019s catalogs a very different feel\u2014Verdana
    at large sizes simply does not have the warmth and cheer of Futura, a reaction
    that seems important in selling furniture to young people with tight budgets.
    I would argue that making such a dramatic change to the visual identity of such
    a valuable brand has potential costs that are much higher than the cost of extending
    Futura to cover more languages. If Ikea has to do one big ad campaign in the US
    and Europe to reinforce the new identity they might spend more than they would
    have to extend Futura."
  created: '2009-08-21 18:30:48'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Changing to Verdana has given Ikea\u2019s catalogs a very different feel\u2014Verdana
    at large sizes simply does not have the warmth and cheer of Futura, a reaction
    that seems important in selling furniture to young people with tight budgets.
    \r\n\r\nI'd have hoped they would have done some kind of study on that. But if
    not I'll be interested to see if their downward sales spiral is ever associated
    with the font change, and they change back, or change up. A grand experiment,
    to be sure. "
  created: '2009-08-21 18:43:09'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "James: <cite>\u2026 the only reason the founder\u2019s family are not among
    the world\u2019s wealthiest billionaires is that Sweden\u2019s progressive taxation
    encouraged them to transfer ownership to a charity.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe founder
    has moved to Switserland years ago, to one of these cantons where taxation is
    based on the value of your house and not on your income. Plus the brand has been
    put into a separate company that is also based in the land of chocolate and friendly
    bankers. The individual branches of IKEA have to pay for the use of the brand,
    which is just an inventive way to skim profits.\r\n\r\nMr IK has some other quirks:
    he was quite enamored by Hitler and Nazism, but that is not unique amongst Swedes.
    As a country Sweden profited immensely from trafficking in WW2 and trading natural
    resources and industrial products with the Nazi-regime.\r\n\r\nAnd then there
    is the policy of this company that chokes suppliers for the lowest possible prices
    and everything that results from that: pseudo-slavery, exploitation of natural
    resources in ecologically weak environments, etcetera.\r\n\r\nNOT a nice company.
    Too bad that they are giving Verdana a bad rep.\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-08-21 18:50:55'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Thanks for the information, Bert.
  created: '2009-08-21 18:57:56'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Savings? So it\u2019s Simons fault\u2014 LETS GET HIM!!!\r\n\r\n;op\r\n\r\nKidding.
    But why didn\u2019t they just extend the Ikea Sans further? They already own it.
    Instead go through another process to license and customize Verdana for the whole
    corporation? \r\n\r\nVerdana is wrong on so many levels. UGH! Its less readable,
    prone to more clotting on the press or looking clotted and forget about elegance.
    Myriad, Avneir, even Lucida or Vera would look much better. And if your think
    about standard Windows fonts shouldn\u2019t Tahoma been the main choice as Verdana
    is the extended version of Tahoma? \r\n\r\nSorry Nick, Helvetica would have looked
    great. Tho Akzidenz would have been better.\r\n\r\nI\u2019m highly disappointed
    with the new change. But hey, maybe they\u2019ll release their old stuff.\r\n\r\nBert,
    I agree with some the of the criticisms lodged against IKEA, however Ingvar Kamprad
    has gone on the record saying that regret being involved with the Nazi movement
    and that he cut off all ties in 1950\u2019s:\r\nhttp://www.jweekly.com/article/full/15415/swedish-goulash-and-sofas-whet-israeli-appetites-at-netanya-ikea/\r\n\r\nI
    hate Nazism with a passion, but if Volkswagen made actually reliable cars I would
    buy one. \r\n\r\nMikey :-/"
  created: '2009-08-22 01:00:17'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "As another little point here: \r\nImage if Volkswagen decided to switch out
    VW Futura for Verdana... that would put the VW brand in crapper wouldn\u2019t
    it? \r\nSomethings need to remain the same if you\u2019re not going to make them
    better.\r\n\r\nMike :-)"
  created: '2009-08-22 07:28:03'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Image if Volkswagen decided to switch out VW Futura for Verdana\r\n\r\nI
    think I made that point earlier. Here's the new Audi logo VW just rolled out...\r\n\r\nhttp://wot.motortrend.com/6546262/marketing/audi-unveils-updated-logo-following-centennial-celebration/index.html\r\n\r\nAnd
    the earlier link to the branding font...\r\n\r\nhttp://fontfeed.com/archives/typographic-relaunch-for-audi/\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-22 17:00:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "If really being cheap was there intention, why change at all? Surely, the
    cheapest way was to do nothing different and never hire the rebranding firm. \r\nI
    really like Verdana for what it was meant for.  It needs so much handwork to be
    used as a print display face that it is counterproductive. They would have been
    better off to have hired Matthew to make a corporate version for them that looks
    respectable as a corporate display face.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-08-22 23:46:16'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Could be that they are phasing out the print catalogue (this year surpassing
    the Bible in print run\u2026) and aim for a web presence only. Makes sense in
    a way: more trees for Billy\u2019s, less for paper \u2026\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert
    Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-08-23 00:23:37'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>Changing to Verdana has given Ikea\u2019s catalogs a very different feel\u2014Verdana
    at large sizes simply does not have the warmth and cheer of Futura, a reaction
    that seems important in selling furniture to young people with tight budgets.</em>\r\n\r\nOn
    the other hand, the web-immersed among those young people might feel subliminally
    quite at home in a store filled with Verdana."
  created: '2009-08-23 04:53:49'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>On the other hand, the web-immersed among those young people might
    feel subliminally quite at home in a store filled with Verdana.</cite>\r\n\r\nInteresting!"
  created: '2009-08-23 06:07:37'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Yes, Craig. Spot on.
  created: '2009-08-23 06:23:26'
- author:
    name: PCARTER
    picture: 117852
  body: Seeing Verdana in print makes me cringe for some reason. This seems to be
    a poor descision at a glance.
  created: '2009-08-24 20:21:00'
- author:
    name: colinmford
    picture: 128165
  body: "I had thought someone had lost the font, honestly! Like they sent the catalog
    to the printer and didn't package the font... Until I went inside my local IKEA
    and saw Verdana on displays, pamphlets... I wonder if it will be replacing the
    Futura on the famous IKEA instruction manuals...\r\n\r\nAnd for what it's worth,
    IKEA was using its own Futura, discussed in this thread www.typophile.com/node/18852"
  created: '2009-08-24 21:13:55'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: I tend to think that the reasoning that Verdana doesn't look good in print
    is far more subjective rather than objective. I think that as it is used more
    in print it will grow on designers. Is this a classic case of referring to a font
    as "grotesque"?
  created: '2009-08-24 21:24:41'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">far more subjective rather than objective\r\n\r\nThat comes back to my suggestion
    that maybe IKEA (or the agency) did some kind of research (focus groups etc.,)
    that did not involve a disproportionate number of graphic designers, web engineers
    and type designers. \r\n\r\nI'm far too close to the font to judge how well it
    works. "
  created: '2009-08-24 22:28:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am not saying it can't work but you need a lot of tracking and kerning
    to make it respectable as a display face.  Is all that labor worth it?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-08-24 23:14:10'
- author:
    name: jfp
    picture: 110395
  body: Ikea don't used a customised Futura and Century before this switch? I have
    heard this somewhere, 2-3 years ago? Not sure.
  created: '2009-08-24 23:24:19'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "What's tracking and kerning again?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-08-24 23:24:56'
- author:
    name: Bruno Bruno
    picture: 117016
  body: I think the reason is sad.
  created: '2009-08-25 00:10:32'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I tend to think that the reasoning that Verdana doesn\u2019t look good
    in print is far more subjective rather than objective.</cite>\r\n\r\nI think that
    it works just fine in print at text sizes. At larger sizes some of the features
    that make it work well small start to look really horsey, such as the terminals
    of C, G, J, Q, and S. When it gets blown up and used vertically that kind of stuff
    just looks weird."
  created: '2009-08-25 00:12:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I tend to think that the reasoning that Verdana doesn\u2019t look good
    in print is far more subjective rather than objective.</em>\r\n\r\nRubbish.\r\nIt's
    a screen font, not graceful at display size, and lacking in subtlety.\r\nIt's
    like using an agate font for headlines."
  created: '2009-08-25 01:29:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"What\u2019s tracking and kerning again?\"\r\n\r\nThe laborious act of retrofitting
    a typeface to do a job for which it was not intended--or maybe a typographic trainwreck
    :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-08-25 02:48:34'
- author:
    name: nerdski
    picture: 113914
  body: I got it the other day and was a bit confused. I used to love their catalogs,
    now not so much. Page 192 is my favorite...
  created: '2009-08-25 06:22:39'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Page 192\u2026 fantastic \u2013 in my copy it has white text on yellow, pretty
    hard to read.\r\nI miss their Futura.\r\n\r\nI have a client who insists on using
    Verdana for everything (their logo is based on it, too). I'm not enjoying it in
    small newspaper print ads."
  created: '2009-08-25 08:25:19'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Pascoli
    picture: 117858
  body: Ikea wants same visual impression in print/web so why not Verdana on screen
    and Frutiger in print? Carter designed Verdana clearly inspired by Frutiger face,
    but Frutiger has not wide character as Verdana...
  created: '2009-08-25 08:28:39'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "<em>...Carter designed Verdana clearly inspired by Frutiger...</em>\r\n\r\nReally
    \u2019cause I see it as a competitive design with Lucida."
  created: '2009-08-25 08:36:20'
- author:
    name: Turiddu
  body: "It's sad of course, particularly for me, as I have been using Century Schoolbook
    for many years now in all possible ways -- sadly my blog at Typepad doesn't support
    it.\r\n\r\nThough coming to think of it, it makes my other publications less Ikea-like
    without having to change anything..."
  created: '2009-08-25 09:16:30'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "<em>\"Rubbish. It\u2019s a screen font, not graceful at display size, and
    lacking in subtlety.\"</em>\r\n\r\nIt's lacking iron and fiber too.\r\n\r\nI know
    where you haters are coming from. I still cringe at the thought that people used
    Chicago as a display face before more fonts became available for the masses to
    abuse. I'm loving this use of Verdana though. Who knew that using such a plain
    looking typeface as Verdana could be so subversive? You grandpas have me feeling
    like I can shave twenty years off my age just by using Verdana for a tradeshow
    header."
  created: '2009-08-25 13:33:22'
- author:
    name: sandrosandro
    picture: 112363
  body: "Why do you think this is subversive? It is subversive for people who understand
    typography, and who will discuss it; end-user, customer will hardly even notice.
    For most of end-users it is just letters. \r\n\r\n_\r\n\r\nSandro"
  created: '2009-08-25 14:05:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"For most of end-users it is just letters.\"\r\n\r\nThen why change from
    the original or why not everything in the world in Arial?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-08-25 15:33:06'
- author:
    name: plainclothes
    picture: 110490
  body: "in my opinion, Verdana at this size is visually disruptive.\r\n\r\nto reiterate
    what Nick said above, this seems like a 10-years-old solution to the problem of
    fonts on the web. not only does @fontface look promising but, I'd argue that the
    public at large is well adjusted to seeing a unique face in web text.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-25 15:34:15'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "@James:\r\n\r\nJust as an aside, the founder of Ikea is the 5th richest person
    in the world. I don't think Sweden's tax system has hurt him much.\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ingvar_Kamprad\r\n\r\nBut
    yes, you'd think one of the biggest and most successful companies on the planet
    could afford a better typeface. ;)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-25 15:49:23'
- author:
    name: isokon
    picture: 113471
  body: I wonder what Carter thinks about this...
  created: '2009-08-25 15:49:50'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Really \u2019cause I see it as a competitive design with Lucida.\r\n\r\nI
    think you're one generation off. Although Lucida existed (and was bundled with
    various Microsoft products) well before Verdana was created, I don't think anyone
    was using it as a UI font. Verdana was conceived as a UI font, and with bitmaps
    created first (before having the outlines wrapper around them and then hinted
    to produce the desired bitmap patterns) it owes more to say Chicago, than Lucida.
    In fact at ATypI I showed some of the preliminary Verdana bitmaps which were very
    Chicago-like.  \r\n\r\nFor those getting hung up on the \u201Cit\u2019s a web
    font\u201D complaint, I really think you should get out more. There\u2019s a whole
    world beyond the computer screen! Do you complain when you see Frutiger used in
    print \u201CThat\u2019s an airport signage font!\u201D or Gotham used on a sign,
    \u201Cthat\u2019s a magazine font!\u201D? ;-)"
  children:
  - author:
      name: johnbutler
      picture: 110494
    body: "<em>Although Lucida existed (and was bundled with various Microsoft products)
      well before Verdana was created, I don\u2019t think anyone was using it as a
      UI font.</em>\r\n\r\nSi, I'm almost certain that Lucida Sans was the default
      UI font in Slo-aris' X11 window manager. Back in their pink and purple days
      before Larry Ellison showed up and turned them orange. Or Tan In A Can, if you
      will.\r\n\r\nOne of the first things I do when I get a Windows box is turn off
      the candy theme, switch to the Windows 2000 theme and make all the UI widget
      fonts a small version of Lucida Sans. Very efficient and pleasant."
    created: '2009-08-31 22:36:22'
  created: '2009-08-25 15:50:51'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: To me, Verdana just screams "default." I love it at small sizes on screen
    (and maybe even in print), but if it's any larger or used in other applications
    it just makes me think of terrible PowerPoint presentations.
  created: '2009-08-25 17:55:32'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Still blowing up on Twitter...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/typ_Picture_14_4909.png][img:sites/default/files/old-images/typ_Picture_13_4717.png][img:sites/default/files/old-images/typ_Picture_12_6641.png][img:sites/default/files/old-images/typ_Picture_11_3859.png][img:sites/default/files/old-images/typ_Picture_10_4297.png][img:sites/default/files/old-images/typ_Picture_9_5733.png]"
  created: '2009-08-25 20:11:00'
- author:
    name: modulist
    picture: 117866
  body: Ouch! My apologies to Matthew Carter, but Verdana is no display font. Anyone
    using it above 18 point should have their eyes examined.
  created: '2009-08-25 20:16:53'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "@James\r\n\r\n\"the warmth and cheer of Futura\"\r\n\r\nI would never have
    associated one of the most geometric of all typefaces with either of those terms,
    but okay :)\r\n\r\nThere is one additional part to the Verdana/Tahoma family:
    Nina. But again, designed for an even smaller monitor than a computer!"
  created: '2009-08-25 20:17:05'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "@modulist\r\nWhy apologize to Carter? He knows very well that Verdana isn't
    a display font, he's a freakin' genius when it comes to type. If he were standing
    here in front of us, he'd probably question IKEA also :p"
  created: '2009-08-25 20:19:26'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: Verdana Fail!
  created: '2009-08-25 20:29:21'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Verdana ships in flat packages and the customer has to assemble it. Makes
    perfect sense for Ikea.
  created: '2009-08-25 20:32:02'
- author:
    name: plainclothes
    picture: 110490
  body: "- - -\r\n\u201Cthe warmth and cheer of Futura\u201D\r\n\r\nI would never
    have associated one of the most geometric of all typefaces with either of those
    terms, but okay :)\r\n- - -\r\n\r\nbut that's the beauty of Futura! rather than
    pure geometry, it references the underlying classical skeleton. stretched to the
    bold weight and used large (as in Ikea's more attractive past) it's a perfect
    fit for Ikea's contemporary modernist focus."
  created: '2009-08-25 20:48:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...Carter designed Verdana clearly inspired by Frutiger...</em>\r\n\r\nI
    don't think he works that way.\r\nHe designs to the brief."
  created: '2009-08-25 23:35:42'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "mmmmmmmmmm Verdana! who needs @font-face? Verdana + Georgia = typographic
    bliss. the world only needs 2 fonts (for Latin anyway). >^D\r\nAlthough i might
    have preferred the slightly narrower Tahoma..."
  created: '2009-08-25 23:42:57'
- author:
    name: WType
    picture: 116173
  body: I wonder how does Matthew Carter feel about this...?
  created: '2009-08-26 03:39:50'
- author:
    name: Oak
  body: Right on, James. Verdana's numerals in display size just look amateurish.
    I think Calibri would have been a much better choice.
  created: '2009-08-26 06:36:27'
- author:
    name: Marius Ursache
    picture: 109991
  body: "I'm still shocked. Outdoor ads have made it everywhere, and the new 2009
    catalogue is set in Verdana.\r\n\r\nI put up a petition to Ikea. Maybe if enough
    designers sign it, they'll have the decency to listen, and revert to Ikea Sans
    & Serif or at least get a decent print typeface.\r\n\r\nSign the petition here:\r\nhttp://www.petitiononline.com/IKEAVERD/petition.html"
  created: '2009-08-26 09:49:24'
- author:
    name: Martijn van Berkel
    picture: 116039
  body: "Ikea, you suck.\r\nBring Ikea Sans back, or take something else.\r\n\r\nKind
    regards,\r\nMartijn van Berkel"
  created: '2009-08-26 10:51:47'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Dang. A petition. This is getting serious.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-26 10:58:33'
- author:
    name: Stingray
    picture: 113575
  body: Verdana. Ugh.
  created: '2009-08-26 11:44:56'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: Wow.
  created: '2009-08-26 12:05:54'
- author:
    name: axian
    picture: 110101
  body: "Verdana... so graceful as a display font.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ikeaverdana_6497.jpg]"
  created: '2009-08-26 23:21:34'
- author:
    name: Ed_Aranda
    picture: 117416
  body: Futura was much better for them.
  created: '2009-08-26 23:28:14'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: We really need something like the Razzies for graphic design.
  created: '2009-08-26 23:36:50'
- author:
    name: santosvega21
    picture: 117872
  body: "It had to have taken some serious consideration, though I am sure we can
    all agree the end result and the reasoning for such a change on one hand can make
    sense, the web friendly excuse I personally cannot overlook if I wanted to. Brand
    is brand no matter where it may be. This idea that they would like the typeface
    to be consistent both on and off the web just opens the doors for other companies
    to destroy a good thing. Let's not loose sight of the experience. The internet
    is not all of it with Ikea. Not even close. Think the product. The experience
    matters most at POS. Why change to run consistent with a web friendly face? Is
    furniture digital now? \r\n\r\n[ If it ain't broke,... ]\r\n\r\nSantos Vega\r\nGraphic
    Design / Illustration\r\nwww.santosvega.com\r\n305/766/9244\r\nsantosvega21@hotmail.com"
  created: '2009-08-26 23:38:40'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "Ravel asked, <em>\u201CWhy do you think this is subversive? It is subversive
    for people who understand typography, and who will discuss it; end-user, customer
    will hardly even notice. For most of end-users it is just letters.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nCustomers
    not noticing or caring while designers are all in a twitter is exactly why I think
    it\u2019s subversive. It\u2019s just like when a client demands the use of Times
    New Roman and you use Palatino and they never notice, but love your work.\r\n\r\nI\u2019m
    very amused by this uproar. I\u2019m speculating that most of the people in a
    twittfit would have never noticed it was Verdana being used if it weren\u2019t
    pointed out to them. Yet they are voicing strong opinions. (I\u2019m excluding
    the well versed old-schoolers like Nick and Chris who I firmly believe have a
    good grasp of their reasoning beyond it merely being a screen font, and probably
    don\u2019t twitter either.)\r\n\r\nFor me there is great irony here. Simon has
    this one pegged. When the print font is used on the web no one bats an eye. Where
    is the outrage when someone uses Futura or Univers on the web or use any of the
    other fonts developed before screen displays? They weren\u2019t intended for use
    on a screen. And then how many other text fonts have been used as a display face
    in recent history with no one caring?\r\n\r\nYes IKEA could\u2019ve and should\u2019ve
    used another face. But I\u2019m glad they made this move to provide me hours of
    entertainment. "
  created: '2009-08-27 00:08:35'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Nice to see typophile back up! \r\n\r\nThe font is really the least of their
    problems\u2026 \r\n\r\nhttp://www.google.com/news/search?ned=us&hl=en&q=Ikea \r\n\r\n...death-trap
    blinds, an Israeli boycott and Chinese folks using their store as a hotel. \r\n\r\nAnd
    then there\u2019s this\u2026 \r\n\r\nhttp://www.theregister.co.uk/2005/04/01/steve_jobs_joins_ikea/
    \r\n\r\n;-)"
  created: '2009-08-27 00:41:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Where is the outrage when someone uses Futura or Univers on the web or
    use any of the other fonts developed before screen displays?</em>\r\n\r\nI've
    been \"outraged\" for years that Georgia doesn't have a display size for the web,
    and that Verdana doesn't have Light weights for the web. The readability of display
    size was something that was overlooked in the design of web technology, and yet
    that technology readily permits display size, with the type looking extremely
    horsey. Times is the best \"web\" face for display size, because the serifs have
    some sharpness.  "
  created: '2009-08-27 01:40:33'
- author:
    name: aa101
    picture: 114376
  body: "I use to work for a global online company. Any design and marketing materials
    we produce ended up using Arial/Verdana because of the same reasons. We had to
    produce in 12 languages under one universal template. \r\n\r\nI would guess that
    it's a very high up upper management decision to cut costs/time for the process
    and an easier way to follow up outsourced projects to other designers or local
    offices.\r\n\r\nI don't really care what font they use really... not sure why
    all the fuss and emotional attachment to this brand. To me IKEA is a huge commercial
    (less on the creative) practical entity.\r\n\r\nVerdana is widely seen and in
    our culture more than we like it to, overused and is in everyone's homes (internet
    browsers/OS system). So in spirit, Verdana is much like Ikea. "
  created: '2009-08-27 10:06:38'
- author:
    name: TwoWicky
  body: "An international company catering to just Europe alone has to deal with over
    twenty different languages, many of which have their own specific character sets.
    If you take into account that you also have to support Russian and Greek, that
    alone rules out a lot of fonts you can choose from. \r\n\r\nThe alternative is
    having to deal with different typefaces for different languages, but that is a
    pain and doesn't solve the real problem at hand. The fact is, there is a huge
    lack of fonts that support a large set of international character sets.\r\n\r\nSo
    faced with similar problem I imagined Ikea had, I did some research into this
    not so long ago and came to the conclusion that Microsoft is the only one that
    consistantly supports all the different character sets in their fonts. Another
    plus is that they are also adapted to screen viewing. The only downside is that
    per typeface, they only provide four fonts: regular, italic, bold and bold italic.\r\n\r\nThe
    most usuable typeface I found for Europe was Myriad Pro which does offer a wider
    range of weights. But if you have to deal with Arabic or Asian languages, you
    can also rule this one out.\r\n\r\nSo if you want to go global and remain consistant
    everywhere, the Microsoft typefaces are the only viable choice at the moment.
    I can understand it is a mammoth undertaking, but I just wish they would affor
    a larger set of weights and that also the other foundries would follow suit.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-27 12:54:32'
- author:
    name: nlx
  body: "WOw hey don't have the money to ask a typographer to design a custom face
    ?\r\n\r\nThats pretty much patehtic !"
  created: '2009-08-27 12:55:30'
- author:
    name: Matt Stanford
  body: "Strangely evolutionary approach - a different typeface over the same images.
    I don't see what Verdana gives that Futura didn't, aside from [something different].
    The kerning issue is a problem, as is the already mentioned warmth at display
    size (or lack thereof).\r\n\r\nI like Futura."
  created: '2009-08-27 13:53:22'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "Excellent points Nick. Maybe all of the uproar will prompt IKEA to commission
    a project to expand the font, or create a custom solution. I would say maybe it
    will prompt Microsoft to do so, but then there's that reality vs. fantasy thing.\r\n\r\nAs
    it is implemented, this seems to me to be a classic example of letting the form
    follow the function. Using Verdana is a highly functional and instant solution
    to their situation. Other than Helvetica I don't think there is another choice.
    \r\n\r\nAs to the thought that of course IKEA has the money to commission a custom
    face, I'm sure they do but the people that make those decisions within the company
    don't sit around sipping coffee talking about what font they are going to use
    for promotional material and ads. In fact that begs the question, how much revenue
    will they potentially lose by using the low/no cost solution versus the added
    costs of an expensive custom font or the continued use of different fonts for
    multiple regions? Other than typophiles does anyone else notice or care?"
  created: '2009-08-27 14:29:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...Microsoft is the only one that consistantly supports all the different
    character sets in their fonts.</em>\r\n\r\nHowever, a number of foundries (not
    Adobe, Microsoft and Apple, which aren't foundries) have recently released \"Euro\"
    fonts that support Latin, Greek and Cyrillic encoding. My effort: The Modern Suite.
    Admittedly, foundry fonts are unlikely to be hinted for PC screens, but this is
    an aesthetic issue that may be compared against the print shortcomings of the
    \"web\" fonts.\r\n\r\nI don't think this is the real issue for Ikea, which seems
    to be that in the holy trinity of product criteria, Price and Convenience have
    trumped Quality. That's a legitimate decision for Ikea; I'm suggesting it may
    weaken the brand--not for reasons of typographic aesthetics per se; in that sense,
    \"Quality\" means the quality of being distinctive. "
  created: '2009-08-27 14:47:28'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "> Nice to see Typophile back up!\r\n\r\nThis is what happens when a site
    that is (a) reliant on Flash and (b) barely tended to in the first place gets
    <a href=\"http://www.metafilter.com/84477/Ikea-deFuturafies\" title=\"Ikea de-Futurafies\">MeFried</a>
    and <a href=\"http://daringfireball.net/linked/2009/08/26/ikea-futura\" title=\"Daring
    Fireball post\">Fireballed</a> on the same day (among other links).\r\n\r\n\u2014
    \ \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-08-27 16:03:00'
- author:
    name: johnnydib
    picture: 116018
  body: "I took these pictures before I realized it was Verdana. And that Futura catalogue
    in the pictures was really one of the reasons I wanted to become a graphic designer.\r\n[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/six_7_8/sets/72157622017139377/|Flickr
    Set]]\r\n\r\nI was a bit shocked a couple of weeks ago when I was looking at their
    catalogue but I just thought the local designer screwed up here in Toronto. It
    didn't even cross my mind that someone would advise the company to make a change
    like this.\r\n\r\nThe \"web\" reason given for the change doesn't even hold. Go
    to their [[http://www.ikea.ca/|website]] and look at how many times Verdana is
    used as an anti-alias image (doesn't it kill the whole purpose of using a web
    font?). But I don't blame the web designers because who in the world wants a dull
    html website that looks like 1995?\r\n\r\nThe \"consistency\" reason given isn't
    working any better. I think we all agree the IKEA brand was pretty consistent
    at least up until the \"change\". But it is now during that transition that the
    inconsistency will occur. Graphic devices and headlines designed using IKEA Sans
    are still in use in print and on the web. Wasn't it the job of the design firm
    that suggested the \"change\" to redesign all these little logos?\r\n\r\nI feel
    this is almost unethical on the part of the design firm. I don't think they added
    any value with the changes they made. It wasn't even a rebranding; they obviously
    wanted to maintain the image of the company (I don't know how to describe it but
    it's basically the IKEA image). The layout of the catalogue is maintained (white
    backdrop for the most part, big black headlines, bold vs regular in the item descriptions
    and body text. So the only thing the design firm has done here is take one successful
    element out.\r\n\r\nMaybe an added value was the cost of design on the long term?
    And Nick you said \"Price and Convenience have trumped Quality\" but I was under
    the impression that they can distribute their proprietary font to their service
    providers at no cost. Or am I wrong? How is Verdana cheaper?"
  created: '2009-08-27 16:41:33'
- author:
    name: Alvin Martinez
    picture: 110768
  body: "<strong>sii said: \"For those getting hung up on the \u201Cit\u2019s a web
    font\u201D complaint, I really think you should get out more. There\u2019s a whole
    world beyond the computer screen! Do you complain when you see Frutiger used in
    print \u201CThat\u2019s an airport signage font!\u201D or Gotham used on a sign,
    \u201Cthat\u2019s a magazine font!\u201D? ;-)\"</strong>\r\n\r\nBad comparison.
    Frutiger and Gotham were never developed for use in a medium totally out of spec
    with print methods, so it is not comparable with using a screen font in printed
    matter. Verdana was developed for Microsoft with the intent of being readable
    at small sizes on a computer screen. Not print. Or signage. A computer screen.
    I am sure if MS told Carter to keep print in mind when designing Verdana, the
    results would have been a masterful typographic fusion of web and print compatibility.\r\n\r\nIn
    regard to Gotham being used on a sign, it was a typeface that was inspired by
    signage to begin with. : )\r\n\r\nWhat I don't get, is if IKEA wanted to have
    a smooth transition between mediums, they should have opted for Frutiger in their
    print materials, which is a very comparable counterpart to Verdana."
  created: '2009-08-27 19:54:38'
- author:
    name: "H\xF6fe"
    picture: 114757
  body: "PEOPLE WHO CAN'T DESIGN CRY THE LOUDEST NORMAL ON THIS WEBSITE.\r\nCATER
    IS ALRIGHT TYPEDESIGNER, NEVER CRYING ON THIS SITE. GOOD ON HIM."
  created: '2009-08-27 22:15:15'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "almar> ...am sure if MS told Carter to keep print in mind when designing
    Verdana, the results would have been a masterful typographic fusion of web and
    print compatibility.\r\n\r\nReally!? Can you specify that more clearly? I say,
    it's impossible in a 'standard' 4 style family. I m p o s s i b l e. E.G. a single
    bold, relative to a single Regular, is a problem to make correct for both print
    and web.\r\n\r\nI think Verdana Regular is made for, and excellent at, small sizes
    independent of output resolution. \r\nClearly, small print and small screen fonts
    share <em>some</em> requirements, do they not? \r\n\r\n>...they should have opted
    for Frutiger ...\r\n\r\nWhat about the web then? Do you know how much it'd cost
    to license Frutiger for web-serving to the public?\r\n\r\nCheers"
  created: '2009-08-28 14:55:29'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "<cite>What about the web then? Do you know how much it\u2019d cost to license
    Frutiger for web-serving to the public?</cite>\r\n\r\nCheaper to have someone
    create Segoe, right? : )\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-08-28 15:09:05'
- author:
    name: Alvin Martinez
    picture: 110768
  body: "dberlow said <strong>\"Really!? Can you specify that more clearly? I say,
    it\u2019s impossible in a \u2019standard\u2019 4 style family. I m p o s s i b
    l e. E.G. a single bold, relative to a single Regular, is a problem to make correct
    for both print and web.\"</strong>\r\n\r\nPerhaps not fully web and print compatible
    (as you alluded to) but certainly more than it is now. And whose to say that he
    may not have taken the road of developing a larger set of fonts under the Verdana
    family to accommodate both mediums?\r\n\r\n<strong>I think Verdana Regular is
    made for, and excellent at, small sizes independent of output resolution.\r\nClearly,
    small print and small screen fonts share some requirements, do they not?</strong>\r\n\r\nCertainly
    they do. But then display sizes, as used in IKEA's catalog, do not share the same
    requirements that smaller sizes do. Therein lies the core of the problem with
    IKEA's decision to use Verdana, unless they intend on using nothing but small
    print in their collateral.\r\n\r\n<strong>What about the web then? Do you know
    how much it\u2019d cost to license Frutiger for web-serving to the public?</strong>\r\n\r\nI
    suggested Frutiger as Verdana's print alternative, being they have certain similarities
    (vague or otherwise) in their letter forms. Not necessarily in place of Verdana
    on the web. Just a good pairing so that their brand's visual language is still
    in tact across the web and print, without resorting to using a screen font for
    larger sized executions."
  created: '2009-08-28 15:51:21'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Time picks up the story and name-checks typophile. Sweet!\r\n\r\nhttp://www.time.com/time/business/article/0,8599,1919127,00.html"
  created: '2009-08-28 18:30:52'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: Raumschiff words will forever be immortalized in Time magazine!
  created: '2009-08-28 18:48:49'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "<A HREF=\"http://www.businessweek.com/innovate/next/archives/2009/08/ikea_changes_fo.html\">Business
    week</A>... Haley retorted, \"Ikea will look like any company that uses Verdana.
    It will look like any newsletter or menu from a deli around the corner. It doesn't
    differentiate them.\"\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://slatest.slate.com/id/2226581/entry/4\">Slate</A>...
    \"Ikea is Verdana\"\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.furnituretoday.com/article/338718-Ikea_s_new_typeface_provokes_protests.php\">Furniture
    Today</A>... \"Who gives a crap???Get a life...\" (comment) \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-28 19:36:11'
- author:
    name: mehallo
    picture: 109684
  body: "I'm noticing this trend that's been going on where the general public has
    started to discover that there's more to fonts than just finding them on the menu.
    That's ... good or bad, depending.\r\n\r\nWhat concerns me is the concept that
    Verdana could easily become labeled as a BAD FONT in all of this.\r\n\r\nVerdana
    is NOT a bad font. It is a font that is overexposed (which culturally tends to
    cause problems. Reference: Phil Collins, circa 1985) - but Verdana does have some
    wonderful Matthew Carter-esque details that makes it a beautiful type family.\r\n\r\nThe
    font isn't bad. \r\n\r\nIKEA thinking it's a suitable replacement for their custom
    version of Futura.\r\n\r\nThat's bad.\r\n\r\n\r\nsteve mehallo\r\nhttp://tinyurl.com/mehallofonts\r\nhttp://mehallo.com/blog"
  created: '2009-08-28 21:56:49'
- author:
    name: Ed_Aranda
    picture: 117416
  body: "Well put, Steve. That\u2019s kind of what I was getting at when I said that
    Futura was better for them. But I'm afraid that Verdana is going to get lumped
    into that category of \u201Cuntouchables\u201D along with Arial, Century Gothic,
    etc. "
  created: '2009-08-28 22:06:55'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "I agree Ed. Steve makes an excellent point. Verdana is one of the all-time
    great fonts. It's just being asked to do more for IKEA than it was intended to
    do because there is no other choice. More than anything else this IKEA/Verdana
    discussion highlights that gaping hole in universally functional fonts that exist
    on almost every device.\r\n\r\nBTW Nick Shinn, I wish you'd been quoted in Time
    because I think you've presented the best perspective on the matter."
  created: '2009-08-28 22:21:22'
- author:
    name: Aaron Thesing
    picture: 117597
  body: "Be forewarned, this post is light-hearted and slightly off the topic.\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    this will draw more attention to Verdana, and I won't have to listen to people
    'correct' me and say \"veranda.\"\r\n\r\nI'm astonished by how many people mispronounce
    Verdana's name."
  created: '2009-08-28 22:45:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks Dan, maybe one day I'll be the famous go-to guy for font sound-bites!\r\n
    I thought Allan Haley did a good job of speaking out for the company that licensed
    Futura to Ikea."
  created: '2009-08-28 22:47:30'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Strange. Minnesota Public Radio links here, and yet Typophile stays up!?
    ;-)\r\n\r\nhttp://minnesota.publicradio.org/collections/special/columns/state-of-the-arts/archive/2009/08/the-font-feud.shtml"
  created: '2009-08-29 01:57:41'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Pascoli
    picture: 117858
  body: "... ...Carter designed Verdana clearly inspired by Frutiger... ...\r\n...
    I don\u2019t think he works that way...\r\n\r\nJust compare yourself both Frutiger/Verdana.
    \r\n\r\n... He designs to the brief...\r\n\r\nOf course He did."
  created: '2009-08-29 09:13:11'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "Time wrote: <em>So why would Ikea make such a change? The very ubiquity of
    Verdana seems to be part of the font's appeal. Freely distributed by Microsoft,
    the typeface allows Ikea to use the same font in all countries and with many alphabets.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    have read this argument somewhere else before, and I totally don't get it:\r\n\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>Verdana
    isn't freely distributed (except in a very old version inside the MS \"core fonts\"
    package, the legality of which still being available is debatable)</li>\r\n<li>Last
    time I checked, the \"many alphabets\" only included Latin, Cyrillic and Greek</li>\r\n</ul>"
  created: '2009-08-29 11:57:58'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">And whose to say that [Carter/Microsoft] may not have taken the road of
    developing a larger set of fonts under the Verdana family to accommodate both
    mediums?\r\n\r\nI think that would be a Microsoft 'whose to say'. When you accommodate
    both mediums, print and web, with today's technologies as they stand, let me know!\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-29 12:43:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Just compare yourself both Frutiger/Verdana.</em>\r\n\r\nWould you say
    that the Frutiger typeface was \"inspired\" by Ad Sans (Humanist 970)?\r\n\r\nI
    would imagine that Matthew Carter was aware of Ad Sans, Frutiger, and Myriad,
    but didn't refer to them while working on Verdana, as his primary objective was
    to design a type that worked well as bitmaps at several low-pixel heights.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-29 15:48:42'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\r\n>his primary objective was to design a type that worked well as bitmaps
    \r\n\r\nAs mentioned in my ATypI talk last year and in various interviews with
    Matthew over the years, he designed the bitmaps first, then the outlines. Then
    Tom Rickner hinted the outlines to produce the original bitmap designs. In this
    process I don't really see how other outline type designs could have directly
    informed the design. \r\n   \r\n \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-29 16:13:33'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Well, I am just not moved by this at all! Futura out of the CD? Oh no! Really,
    it is going to be OK, isn't it? IKEA had been using Futura since the 1940s. As
    far as I'm concerned, that is actually a good reason to switch to a different
    typeface. Maybe the big, globally-successful IKEA wanted to differentiate themselves
    from other ginormous entities that use Futura. Honestly, what does the company
    have in common with e.g., Volkswagon, other than the same typeface? Maybe a different
    typeface than Verdana would have been a better choice, but they can fix that later
    if they want. They've made a huge first step by breaking with their past. Somehow,
    I doubt that they'll stick with Verdana for 60 years.\r\n\r\nAlso, Matthew Carter
    is just a better designer than Paul Renner was ;-)\r\nI know which team that I'd
    rather root for."
  created: '2009-08-29 17:24:30'
- author:
    name: pookerella
  body: Verdana, like Arial, should NEVER be used in print. PERIOD.
  created: '2009-08-29 19:14:05'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: ">Verdana, like Arial, should NEVER be used in print. PERIOD.\r\n\r\nIn the
    BoConcept's german version catalogue of last year, the graphic design unit made
    a good job working with (only) Verdana \u2013 i even saw it as large type in windows.
    Really ok/good job!\r\n\r\nBTW Haha, i don't know the IKEA catalogue yet \u2013
    i will be surprised or \u2026\r\nAnd it certainly it was time for a change, really."
  created: '2009-08-29 22:53:43'
- author:
    name: marquis.de.stade
  body: "<strong>DISCLAIMER: The following is my personal point of view on the situation
    and does not reflect the views of my employer or the views of any branch of IKEA,
    past, present or future. None of the following is to be considered factual.</strong>\r\n\r\n\r\nNow
    that the cat's outta the bag so to speak. I've been working with IKEA for a while
    and learned about the switch to Verdana about a year ago. The reasons I heard
    internally were pretty much verbatim to those heard in the CAP&Design article.
    Now, I'm not a designer, although I would like to think that I keep a keen eye
    on things beautiful.\r\n\r\nI am however, a software developer.\r\n\r\nI've worked
    on most of the dynamic content available on the IKEA website and am very well
    entrenched in the technical issues of localization. While the issue of type is
    readily apparent at first visual glance, there is more to it than meets the eye.
    First, you've got to realize that IKEA publishes content all over the world. In
    multiple alphabets. Producing said content with a consistent visual style is a
    daunting task, not only for the content producers but for us writing the tools
    they use as well. Now, disregarding the daunting nature of this task, even disregarding
    any of the visual aspects of the production such as tracking and kerning etc,
    there's one technical issue that always lingering about as a dark cloud on an
    otherwise pretty fair sky \u2014 file size.\r\n\r\nFonts are expensive in terms
    of file size. Sure, your average font with the letters and numerals and some subset
    of special characters isn't all that bad. But slap on the chinese alphabet or
    the japanese alphabet and you're looking at pushing several hundred kb if not
    several mb down the tube. One can use a subset of the alphabet, it's after all
    highly unlikely that all glyphs are used at the same time, but you rack up the
    file size pretty quickly anyway. And if you do send specific glyphs down the tube,
    there's no intelligent caching to take care of already downloaded fonts so you'll
    be resending the same data over and over.\r\n\r\nIt may not be that expensive
    for IKEA to license the rights to Futura (or IKEA Sans as their version was called),
    but bandwidth sure is. And it's a running cost. In the ubiquitous nature of the
    internet it is easily forgotten that serious bandwidth costs serious money. I
    don't have up-to-date figures, but I know the daily unique visitor count on IKEAs
    website globally is well into the millions. Daily. Yes, they have pretty advanced
    co-location caching solutions, but it's all very expensive stuff to keep running
    efficiently.\r\n\r\nYou may ask:\r\n- Ok, it's expensive to keep this running,
    but what about the user experience? Doesn't that count for something?\r\n\r\nSure
    it does. In fact, it's even more important than the costs of running it all. In
    fact, that's why their pushing that serious amount of energy and money into running
    it. But when asking that question, you have to ask if the user experience on the
    web is purely visual? Well, it's not. Looking in a printed catalogue I understand
    you all, I even agree with most of you. But on the web we've had to come up with
    quite technically challenging solutions. Reconnecting with what I said previously,
    fonts costs in terms of file size. They are NOT cheap. And @font-face won't help
    much, you still have to push the font as any other digital resource. It's also
    notoriously difficult to cache fonts properly. This is a file type issue I'd presume.
    You simply can't stream selected glyphs and still have a usable font file, you
    need to dynamically create one. Anything dynamically created is impossible to
    cache because of it's dynamic nature. At one time, it's one set of glyphs, at
    another it's a different set. Coming back to the issue of user experience, file
    size and bandwidth determines load times. It's really that simple. We can't display
    what we need to display before we have all the resources to do so. We display
    as soon as possible and load as lazily as possible (when it's needed), but in
    order to keep the user interested we need to do serious optimizations to keep
    the loading times as small as possible. Even in low-bandwidth situations.\r\n\r\nSo
    what to do?\r\n\r\nWell, we implemented a way of pushing IKEA Sans onto the client
    in countries where the alphabet was cheap. This includes most western countries.
    For other alphabets, such as cyrillic, greek, chinese or japanese, we defaulted
    back to verdana and only produced headings and other selected parts in IKEA Sans,
    pushing only those glyphs that were necessary to keep the filesize down. It worked
    well, we managed to keep the loading times as small as possible while still being
    able to at least come to some sort of decent compromise in visual quality on the
    web. But the difficulty of caching and the fact that the visual style was anything
    but consistent is what I think finally pushed IKEA to the switch. You or I may
    not agree with the decision, but looking at the sheer volume of visitors IKEA
    get \u2014 both in the stores and online \u2014 you realize that even a 1% drop
    due to load times or other look'n'feel issues is a huge loss of potential sales.\r\n\r\nNow,
    wether or not changing up the type face will cause those drops in visitors, I
    don't know. After all, I'm just a software developer.\r\n\r\n\r\nPS. While Bert
    Vanderveen is correct in that Swedish companies did trade with the Nazi regime,
    it does not mean that Sweden, swedes or even the companies that traded with the
    regime sympathized with the Nazis. In fact, Sweden always maintained a status
    of neutrality which means that Sweden neither supported nor abolished the regime.
    In hindsight, this may sometimes seem as a kind of support while in fact it's
    a condition of neutrality. The government couldn't disallow trade with the Nazis
    since it would effectively cancel the status of neutrality and place us as participants
    in the conflict. As you may or may not know, Sweden did not enter the conflict
    between Finland and Russia during that time for the very same reasons. Note that
    I'm not taking a stand here, just trying to convey a more fair image than portraying
    Swedes as nazis.\r\n\r\nFor more information on Sweden during the second world
    war:\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sweden_during_World_War_II"
  created: '2009-08-30 12:46:57'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Well done. Thanks for this infusion of reason and reality into this overly
    emotional thread. In your case, anonymity is no problem, sir.
  created: '2009-08-30 15:05:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks for the insider perspective.\r\n\r\n<em>The government couldn\u2019t
    disallow trade with the Nazis</em>\r\n\r\nIn practical terms, yes, but ideally
    a neutral could close its borders and become self sufficient."
  created: '2009-08-30 15:44:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\" neutral could close its borders and become self sufficient.\"\r\n\r\nBeing
    fair to Sweden, at the time a country with a minimal army, could ill afford to
    pis\xDF off the heavily armed and notoriously invasion minded Nazis.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-08-30 15:59:07'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I doubt that it is possible for a nation the size of Sweden\u2014with its
    geography, too\u2014to be self sufficient."
  created: '2009-08-30 16:34:58'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Thanks for this infusion of reason and reality into this overly emotional
    thread. \r\n\r\nYes, thanks. So on to a reasoned, unemotional debate about the
    Nazis! ;-) \r\n"
  created: '2009-08-30 16:45:45'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "AP - \r\n\r\nhttp://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5geYlBYTlLIO5k6bVAzQxh7CHbcxQD9AD9JA80
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-30 17:09:42'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I\u2019m going to run away from the Nazi discussion and just say thank you
    for dropping by with this very interesting explanation of the reasoning behind
    the switch. I had no idea that idea faced such staggering costs for serving web
    fonts!"
  created: '2009-08-30 17:10:51'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Yep, lets keep typophile a Nazi-free zone!
  created: '2009-08-30 17:27:23'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Thank you Mstade for the insider's view!\r\n\r\nAs for Nazis and Sweden,
    and such issues, Sweden is nicely cushioned between Norway and Finland, so it's
    been relatively easy to stay neutral. I understand that it was better to co-operate
    that to be occupied. Norway was occupied by Germany and are with NATO now, something
    that's been discussed in Finland, too. Finns had to side with the Germans against
    Russians, but kicked them out later. Bit of a no-choice situation, to start with.
    \r\nSweden took care of a lot of Finnish children during the war, which was a
    very good deed indeed.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-30 17:30:38'
- author:
    name: bYawn
  body: "Er, Hello Losers,\r\n\r\nJust joined and I am so excited to see another group
    of introverted gay losers living in mom's basement up in arms about a global or
    social issue that really matters!\r\n\r\nGood work people!"
  created: '2009-08-30 18:36:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'Actually, the only thing more pathetic (from the bYawn perspective) would
    be someone taking the time to register and comment on it. '
  created: '2009-08-30 19:11:38'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "An interesting counterpoint to the \"Verdana only works on the screen\" brigade...\r\n\r\nhttp://advertisingindustrynewswire.com/2009/08/30/1156_190137.php
    \r\n\r\nAlso updated AP piece... \r\n\r\nhttp://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5geYlBYTlLIO5k6bVAzQxh7CHbcxQD9ADD4480
    \r\n\r\n...which mentions typophile!"
  created: '2009-08-30 20:44:39'
- author:
    name: Alvin Martinez
    picture: 110768
  body: "Nick,\r\n\r\nbYawn is probably the type of sad person who feels that it is
    \"cool\" to go onto a forum that they know nothing about, and troll. People like
    that like to hear themselves talk. Nothing more, nothing less. Ignore him/her/it.\r\n\r\n~
    A"
  created: '2009-08-30 21:04:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Sorry, shouldn't respond to trolls. Muy bad.
  created: '2009-08-30 21:06:58'
- author:
    name: Alvin Martinez
    picture: 110768
  body: "Via the Associated Press: <strong>Swedish art director Christoph Comstedt
    commented on the Verdana issue:\r\n\r\n\"I don't think the average consumer will
    react, maybe people in the advertising business,\" Comstedt said.</strong>\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    he should rent \"Objectified.\" Because if we took that approach to every thing
    that had a potential design worth, we would live in a less visually appealing
    world. With design becoming a much more consumer/societal recognized value than
    in the past, that comment sounds like a very naive point of view intended to minimize
    smart design choices."
  created: '2009-08-30 21:19:02'
- author:
    name: Suz_Syn
    picture: 114480
  body: "Is it not odd of AP to say (in the fourth paragraph), \"Verdana was invented
    by Microsoft . . .\" ?\r\n\r\nApart from not even mentioning Matthew Carter, how
    could the AP copy editors let that go by?\r\n\r\nDo they think there's a job title
    of \"type inventor\"?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5geYlBYTlLIO5k6bVAzQxh7CHbcxQD9ADD4480"
  created: '2009-08-31 03:23:28'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Well just got back from IKEA (Renton, WA) and I have to say I was disappointed.
    The promised Verd-topia failed to materialize. 98% of the store was still using
    the old font. \r\n\r\nRe. the AP piece, there are several errors in there, and
    the typophile reference seems to have been borrowed from the Time article. I bet
    20 euros if IKEA ever reverts the font, the AP will lead with the headline \u201CBack
    to the Futura!\u201D Well at least the journalist\u2019s name sounds like an IKEA
    product. :-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-31 05:15:01'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Is it not odd of AP to say (in the fourth paragraph), \u201CVerdana
    was invented by Microsoft . . .\u201D </cite>\r\n\r\nYou expect a newspaper syndication
    service to check facts? "
  created: '2009-08-31 06:07:03'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: I've been stuck on Almar's last comment. There is obviously a different weight
    on this for each entity, and according to mstade's comment IKEA specifically addressed
    this, but how or where does the line of "visually appealing" take precedent over
    functional efficiency as considered for the priority of design?
  created: '2009-08-31 14:53:32'
- author:
    name: Raumschiff
  body: Wow. This thread is famous. It made Time Magazine. And thus my day :-)
  created: '2009-08-31 15:00:45'
- author:
    name: Marius Ursache
    picture: 109991
  body: "Update (see full article on [[http://www.mariusursache.com/2009/08/28/why-should-ikea-listen-to-designers|Brandacadabra]])\r\n\r\nIkea
    has reacted to the unexpected coverage of this in Time magazine and throughout
    social media:\r\n\r\n<cite>We're surprised. But I think it's mainly experts who
    have expressed their views, people who are interested in fonts. I don't think
    the broad public is that interested. Verdana is a simple, cost-effective font
    which works well in all media and languages.\u2014Camilla Meiby, Ikea spokesman
    (quoted by Associated Press)</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>It\u2019s sad that some people
    react negative. Still, we are very glad that people care so much. But what\u2019s
    important is the message, not good looking fonts.\u2014Ivana Hrdlickova, Ikea
    (quoted by Swedish Wire)</cite>\r\n\r\nI really appreciate Ikea's intervention
    and their response. It shows an open mind and I really want to thank them for
    joining a conversation started by people who appreciate both their role in promoting
    design to masses, and design itself.\r\n\r\nHowever, there are certain aspects
    that I would argue about:\r\n\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>Indeed, the broad public is not interested.
    Although this change in identity rather makes Ikea look unremarkable (in visual
    communication), similar to tens of thousands of businessed in the world who only
    use Arial, Times New Roman or Verdana. This will impact on the long run on the
    perception.</li>\r\n<li>Verdana does not work well in print. Ask any graphic designer
    that has basic typography knowledge. And it does not work well in all languages
    (it only has Latin, Cyrillic and Greek letterforms)</li>\r\n<li>It's not about
    good looking fonts. It's about design, which is more about functionality and solving
    a problem, than just pure aesthetics. Would you argue similarly about any of your
    products\u2014that it has to work, no matter how it looks? I think this undermines
    the whole philosophy Ikea is built around.</li></ul>\r\n\r\nIkea, you say you
    are glad that design/typography experts care about you. I think that's something
    few brands can brag about. This whole fuss is about nothing else than caring about
    your design strategy\u2014a strategy that I (and other 3000+ fellow designers
    who signed the above mentioned petition) hope you will revise!\r\n\r\nThank you!\r\n\r\nMarius
    Ursache\r\nChief Creative Officer\r\nGrapefruit\r\nwww.grapefruit.ro"
  created: '2009-08-31 17:17:49'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: 'Something else occurred to me: if Ikea went with Verdana because of cost
    issues related to serving web fonts, why not commission a new series of Verdana
    fonts optically tweaked for use at large sizes and in the catalogs? The basic
    structure of Verdana would adapt well to reining the details that look out of
    proportion at larger sizes. Adding ink traps and enlarging counters in the bold
    weight would make it print better in the catalogs. Light and black weights would
    help the type distinguish itself in print and signage. '
  created: '2009-08-31 17:35:24'
- author:
    name: rui abreu
    picture: 111513
  body: "In the eighties, Coca Cola did a much better job showing everyone how much
    Coca Cola drinkers loved their logo. When it went Coke it was an offense.\r\n\r\nIKEA
    is certainty showing everyone who doesn't shop there how much their clients love
    design. Plus the brand is being spoken.\r\n\r\nAfter this Verdana nightmare everyone
    will be happy to have futura back. And all non-Ikea-costumers will notice how
    good looking is ikea's Futura and their furnisher too.\r\n\r\nI'm not saying this
    is the current situation but it could be. After all they must know something about
    design, or else they would have picked Comic Sans or Arial.\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-31 18:38:11'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "<em>But what\u2019s important is the message, not good looking fonts.</em>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s
    plain stupid."
  created: '2009-08-31 19:11:04'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\u2014\u2013\u2015--- ---\u2015--\u2015-- \u2015--\u2015--\u2015 --\u2015-
    -\u2015- --\u2015- -\u2015-- \r\n\r\n...the new flatpack version of Verdana. :-)"
  created: '2009-08-31 19:27:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I want them to use it Si.  Every reader of their catalogue will have to put
    together all the parts and make their own typeface with minimal instructions in
    sign language :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-08-31 20:20:25'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Marius Ursache:\r\n\r\nMeiryo is the Japanese Verdana\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meiryo"
  created: '2009-08-31 20:30:30'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I want them to use it Si. Every reader of their catalogue will have to put
    together all the parts and make their own typeface with minimal instructions in
    sign language :-)\r\n\r\nFortuantely it comes with a special tool... \"\xAC\"\r\n\r\nAs
    they say \u201Csome assembly required\u201D :-)"
  created: '2009-08-31 20:35:31'
- author:
    name: janey_smithe
  body: You people need to get a life. It's a font. You should spend your time worrying
    about real problems.
  created: '2009-08-31 21:19:44'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Thanks John, that''s interesting - do you think that led to  Apple adopting
    it for OS X, given the product''s Unix underpinnings? Out of Interest do you know
    what Nextstep was using? '
  created: '2009-08-31 23:08:32'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "> You people need to get a life. It\u2019s a font. You should spend your
    time worrying about real problems.\r\n\r\nWrong forum, I assume."
  created: '2009-08-31 23:15:21'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: "I always find it funny that whenever Typophile is mentioned in  national
    news media we have an influx up people joining only to tell us to get a collective
    life. There are several forums devoted to TV shows, video games, sporting teams,
    cars, bikes, (all of which I enjoy), and other things that are at least as insignificant
    as what we talk about. Why don't those forums have people joining to belittle
    forumgoers' passions?\r\n\r\nAlso, I should mention that this forum is pull of
    people who make their livings doing something related to this forum, which distinguishes
    us from forums about almost all of the above-mentioned areas of interest."
  created: '2009-09-01 00:23:13'
- author:
    name: Landdogger
  body: "Incredible thread, so many good insights.\r\n\r\nI myself fall on the side
    that is more intrigued by the move. Undoubtedly, choosing Verdana is a \"sign
    of the times,\" as it seems that it was very much dictated and necessitated by
    web technology. Where Futura had it's place in history to express geometric and
    streamlined modernity for the printing press, Verdana speaks to a whole different
    kind of \"digital modernity.\"\r\n\r\nInstead of discounting the move as purely
    functional, I think it's time to reconsider Verdana as something that might work
    for Ikea because it's just what they need, regardless of not being designed for
    print, etc. I wonder: would people think it's as terrible if they didn't know
    where it came from?\r\n\r\nA little more in depth here: [[http://stuckinthebubble.blogspot.com/2009/08/ikea-maybe-its-time-to-rethink-verdana.html|Maybe
    it's time to rethink Verdana]]"
  created: '2009-09-01 03:57:12'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Apparently Wikipedia (Jedi Council?) editors want to ban the <A HREF=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Verdanagate\">Verdanagate</A>
    entry. \r\n\r\nVia http://www.crikey.com.au/2009/09/01/the-full-fonty-why-type-nerds-went-mental-over-ikea/
    \r\n"
  created: '2009-09-01 05:12:03'
- author:
    name: Silas Amos
  body: I think this is a good example where, typographic appeal notwithstanding,
    its the content which sticks in the mond more than the font. We have written a
    little bit more from this perspective at http://www.jkr.co.uk/design-gazette/
  created: '2009-09-01 14:04:44'
- author:
    name: sandrosandro
    picture: 112363
  body: "<cite>But what\u2019s important is the message, not good looking fonts. <cite>\r\n\r\nThis
    is just terrible thinking. Pure stupidity. \r\n\r\nI have just read article about
    Ikea and Verdana in Croatian newspaper. Also Typophile was noted. Regarding our
    discussion we are going round and round in circles. Many of you said, and it's
    just technically righ and correct that Verdana was not made for print. \r\n_\r\n\r\nSandro"
  created: '2009-09-01 14:09:03'
- author:
    name: rkiga
  body: "Why is anyone upset about this quote:\r\n<em>\"But what\u2019s important
    is the message, not good looking fonts.\"</em>\r\n\r\nIsn't <em>message</em> the
    most important thing? Everything else is secondary. Concerning style, consistency
    is one of the most important things. This is especially true, as has been mentioned,
    when dealing with a global company that has to try to keep some kind of consistency
    across web and print in multiple languages.\r\n\r\nSometime in 2008, all Ikea
    websites moved from various fonts (mostly Arial) to Verdana, probably in preparation
    for this print move. From that alone, the sites looks better, but I don't remember
    any TIME articles about that. So lighten up about this!\r\n\r\nI'm not in love
    with Verdana's numerals (especially the 1 and 9), but it's not as if it's so bad
    that it's distracting to me, and I think that's what it comes down to. Even if
    Verdana looks marginally worse than Futura in print, it's not so bad that I--much
    less the general public--will be distracted by it, or even notice it. Regardless
    of the font, the Ikea catalogs are well designed anyway. Even if [[http://www.flickr.com/photos/six_7_8/3854126727/in/set-72157622017139377/|this]]
    doesn't say Ikea to us yet, that'll change with time.\r\n\r\nIf Verdana really
    looks so bad at display sizes that it matters, then Ikea can simply commission
    a display cut for the different languages. I don't think it'll be necessary, but
    judging from what mstade said, this would make a lot more sense than the alternatives.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    for anyone who has not seen a catalog, here is another side-by-side comparison,
    just make sure you have your seatbelt on and your soapbox nearby:\r\nhttp://www.idsgn.org/posts/ikea-says-goodbye-to-futura/\r\n\r\nHere's
    a quote by macmcraeart on digg that pretty much sums it up for me:\r\n<em>oh snap!
    they switched from plain to more plain... rage.</em>\r\n\r\nWhen you go too far
    with form over function, I think you lose sight of some other important things:
    like how typophile forum looks great (my first post btw), but I hate that there's
    no \"quote this/+quote\" buttons, comment numbers to reference, or highlight-and-click
    html-tagging buttons. Also, seeing as how so many people here are on a first name
    basis, wouldn't it make sense to have our real names displayed just under our
    aliases? All things neglected so that the site can look cleaner?\r\n\r\nryan\r\n\r\n\r\nOT
    tangent: why is \"seatbelt\" not a word in my spellchecker yet? It's not even
    listed as \"seat-belt\" yet in the MW dictionary. Keeping apart a pair of words
    that naturally belong together is such a shame. Damn those segregationist!"
  created: '2009-09-01 21:16:43'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "<em>But what\u2019s important is the message, not good looking fonts.</em>\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s
    stupid (in general and apart from the Verdanagate discussion) because when you
    set text in a typeface the look of that typeface becomes part of the overall message.\r\n\r\nFor
    IKEA\u2019s products the above statement would translate to:\r\n<em>What\u2019s
    important is that you can sit on it, not what the chair looks like.</em>"
  created: '2009-09-01 21:41:43'
- author:
    name: mehallo
    picture: 109684
  body: "Re: the Verdana backlash ...\r\n\r\nSomeone posted this blog link on my Facebook
    page:\r\n\r\nhttp://shortformblog.com/biz/verdana-is-not-a-font-we-repeat-ikea-verdana-is-not-a-font\r\n\r\nWhich
    now states (a few times!) that 'Verdana is not a font.' \r\n\r\n(!?)\r\n\r\nSo
    far, I've enjoyed this response to the Blog's bold statement (from a former student):\r\n\r\n<em>'font-family:
    \"Helvetica Neue\", Helvetica, Arial, Nimbus Sans, Verdana, sans-serif;' Not a
    font, apparently, but it is a back-up font for that blog's design.</em>\r\n\r\n\r\nsteve
    mehallo\r\nhttp://tinyurl.com/mehallofonts\r\nhttp://mehallo.com/blog"
  created: '2009-09-01 21:46:13'
- author:
    name: ShortFormBlog
  body: "Re: mehallo\r\n\r\nThanks for noticing the post. However, I guess I should
    clarify, as it seems that some of the arguments may have been taken literally.\r\n\r\nMy
    thinking on the headline (which admittedly was a bit hyperbolic to make a point)
    is sort of rooted in this line from the article: \"It looks like the font blew
    out when the catalogs were being printed.\" I guess that's where I started from
    with that.\r\n\r\nMy point was that the font is so overused, that it's a given
    \u2013 it's almost as if it's not even there. I wasn't literally trying to say
    that it wasn't a font. I thought that should have been clear from the props I
    gave Matthew Carter in the post. Alas.\r\n\r\nAnd regarding the CSS: Someone posted
    the question to me at Hacker News, and my response was (jokingly) that it's for
    computers that only have one font.\r\n\r\nThis whole debacle has been a fairly
    strange one. As the story went mainstream, it went from designers and techies
    largely agreeing with my points to non-designers hearing about the story and looking
    at it as a bottle of nerd rage in about three days. Currently waiting for the
    backlash against the backlash against the backlash to begin.\r\n\r\n--\r\nErnie
    Smith, Owner/Proprietor/Intern\r\n[[http://shortformblog.com/]]"
  created: '2009-09-01 23:56:45'
- author:
    name: rkiga
  body: "<em>It\u2019s stupid (in general and apart from the Verdanagate discussion)
    because when you set text in a typeface the look of that typeface becomes part
    of the overall message.</em>\r\n\r\nYes of course a typeface is PART of the overall
    message, but what is important is the message. I think some people here think
    those things are on equal terms, or worse, instead of one thing contributing to
    the other. Also, I'm reading \"message\" as meaning more than just words on a
    page.\r\n\r\n<em>For IKEA\u2019s products the above statement would translate
    to:\r\nWhat\u2019s important is that you can sit on it, not what the chair looks
    like.</em>\r\n\r\nIsn't that absolutely, positively, 100% perfect then? Clearly
    Ikea doesn't design purely superficial stuff you might find in a stuffy boutique
    or art dealer. They're not going to PURPOSEFULLY make ugly chairs, but the IMPORTANT
    thing is that you can sit on the chair, not what it looks like (honestly, a few
    of their chairs ARE damn ugly, and I think we're now into the endless form vs
    function debate). Ikea's products are designed to be semi-modular, practical,
    and affordable. They're rarely on the cutting edge. They've made a fortune selling
    bargain furniture that does its job and is \"good enough\", why would anyone be
    surprised that they're going with what the spokesperson described as a \"more
    efficient and cost-effective\" font?\r\n\r\nShe did say they \"are very glad that
    [us angry typographer] people care so much\", so the only thing wrong with the
    quote that I see is that maybe she slipped and said \"important\" instead of \"most
    important\".\r\n\r\nryan"
  created: '2009-09-02 00:13:59'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "They\u2019d be selling boxes if it was just a matter of sitting on something.
    Don\u2019t tell me their chairs aren\u2019t designed. They even mention the specific
    designers in the catalogue."
  created: '2009-09-02 00:56:40'
- author:
    name: rkiga
  body: "Where did I say their chairs aren't designed? Anyway, I've seen giant spools
    being recycled/resold as tables, so what's to stop Ikea from selling boxes/crates/whatever
    as chairs/stools/benches/footrests? What makes something a chair? \r\n\r\nBack
    on topic: Jan, I think you're going way overboard on this slippery slope stuff.
    The spokesperson clearly didn't mean that aesthetics are not important at all,
    only that they're subordinate to the message. It's a balancing act of time/money
    vs quality/effectiveness. \r\n\r\nAesthetics are always important to some degree
    when you're trying to sell a product--not just in the product, but in the message
    itself. But, Ikea clearly has priorities where other things matter before or along
    with aesthetics: price, flat-pack-ability, etc. But, nothing matters more than
    that you can get the message / sit on it.\r\n\r\nThey've traded one flavor of
    bland for another flavor of bland so that they can cut costs and be consistent
    across different languages. Tell them to make a display cut, not cry foul and
    sign petitions like it's some crime against humanity after one catalog.\r\n\r\n-You're
    saying it's stupid to think Ikea can have a message without a pretty font since
    aesthetics is part of the overall message.\r\n-I'm saying that since aesthetics
    is part of the message, if you have an effective message, your aesthetics were
    either fine, or everything else in the message was so great that the aesthetics
    didn't matter much at all.\r\n\r\nYou can't take what people say literally word
    for word, which is why I wrote that she should have said the message is \u201Cmost
    important\u201D instead of \u201Cimportant\u201D for clarity. I think I made the
    same mistake in my post. We all flub words.\r\n\r\nI think I know why you can't
    understand what I'm trying to say: this forum is set in 12pt Verdana! If only
    it were in Futura... :p"
  created: '2009-09-02 06:41:21'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "<em>this forum is set in 12pt Verdana! If only it were in Futura</em>\r\n\r\nOh
    gods, no! It's actually meant to be Georgia (something wrong with your installation
    :)\r\n\r\nThere, emoticon!"
  created: '2009-09-02 08:26:42'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "\"I think I know why you can\u2019t understand what I\u2019m trying to say:
    this forum is set in 12pt Verdana! If only it were in Futura... :p\"\r\n\r\nOn
    my browser it looks like Georgia!"
  created: '2009-09-02 12:59:43'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: Oh, but the front page is Verdana.
  created: '2009-09-02 13:36:31'
- author:
    name: rkiga
  body: "Woops!\r\n\r\nWeird that this page is in Verdana: http://typophile.com/forum\r\n\r\nBut,
    it's definitely Georgia here, I stand corrected."
  created: '2009-09-02 14:45:48'
- author:
    name: tiffanyrooprai
  body: "It's quite true, IKEA Intersystems owns the IKEA Sans, Script and Serif fonts
    used throughout the company. The switch to Verdana was to save money - stores
    paid to use the IKEA fonts. This makes little sense to those of us who work in
    the design departments at IKEA. That we pay for our own font useage on a font
    we already own seems suspect. But IKEA does not always make sense when it comes
    to decision making in their retail outlets. Recently they changed uniform standards
    to the yellow shirt for every worker in the store except the cafeteria staff.
    This was to showcase a larger sales presence at a time when sales were slumping
    and they're cutting back the sales staff to less than 20 hours a week and eliminating
    middle management positions. Now we have designer co-workers who once wore inconspicuous
    white t-shirts as well as logistics and maintenance co-workers (who wore blue)
    in the iconic yellow polos. Mind you, not a single one of us is actually trained
    in sales, and these departments work on a regular schedule. So, for appearance
    sake, now during regular operating hours stores look full of sales workers, most
    of whom have to refer customers to \"a person wearing yellow who works in sales.\"\r\n\r\nAdd
    to that, the switch to Verdana has to cost the company millions of dollars - money
    better spent elsewhere (we're not getting bonuses this year). We have to re-print
    every single price tag, banner and rack label in each store. There are new letterheads
    and business cards for every manager to pay for. We aim to go green on a corporate
    level yet reams and reams of paper is required for the simplest of switches within
    a store. We have hundreds of stores!\r\n\r\nThen again, in my years at IKEA I
    have found it to be a very confusing company. On one hand, our store rakes in
    a quarter million dollars on weekdays. Double that on weekends. Yet there are
    more times than not that policies we hear about make it seem like the company
    is operating on a whim. Not to mention, every time we get a new country president
    we are mandated to make the aesthetic changes he or she deems are important -
    on a personal level, not based in sales. We make change and hope the sales follow.\r\n\r\nIt's
    exhausting."
  created: '2009-09-03 02:55:45'
- author:
    name: Sam M
  body: "I rather think verdana is a good choice for IKEA.  IKEA's brand has very
    little to do with \"design\" and everything to do with exuding affordability and
    pragmatic, if temporary, solutions. Futura might just be too upscale for their
    brand during the recession, and the jarring awkwardness of Verdana in a print
    catalog might just go a long way in seperating IKEA from pricier competitors such
    as West-elm and Crate & Barrel.  \r\n\r\nVerdana is almost \"corporate grunge\"
    in this climate. "
  created: '2009-09-03 04:43:22'
- author:
    name: nitrofurano
    picture: 115484
  body: Verdana sucks even as display typeface!
  created: '2009-09-03 11:03:41'
- author:
    name: nitrofurano
    picture: 115484
  body: '@mehallo Verdana is not only overexposed - it''s hugelly unbalanced as well,
    and deeply plenty of hurting naive mistakes...'
  created: '2009-09-03 11:18:10'
- author:
    name: oskarsve
  body: "Someone mentioned Lucas De Groot's Calibri as a good alternative to Verdana.\r\nTo
    me it seems to tick all the boxes for IKEA that they found in Verdana such as
    glyph coverage, price and accessibility is this true?"
  created: '2009-09-04 15:19:47'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "</cite>\r\n\r\n> it\u2019s hugelly unbalanced as well, and deeply plenty
    of hurting naive mistakes...\r\n\r\nWell, I once saw a t-shirt that said \"<A
    HREF=\"http://typophile.com/node/1677\">Who died and made you Matthew Carter?</A>\"\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-04 16:12:47'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "A couple of more recent articles worth taking a peek at...\r\n\r\nThis one
    quotes Chuck Bigelow (of Lucida fame)\r\n\r\nhttp://correspondents.theatlantic.com/edward_tenner/2009/09/futura_shock_at_ikea.php\r\n\r\nAnd
    this one in the Guardian is quite good, answering the question \"why should we
    care?\" \r\n\r\nhttp://www.guardian.co.uk/artanddesign/2009/sep/02/ikea-verdana-font "
  created: '2009-09-04 16:27:48'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "We should be grateful that they didn\u2019t choose Comic Sans\u2026\r\n\r\n.
    . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-09-04 16:33:58'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Late to the party but a welcome addition \r\n\r\nhttp://www.nytimes.com/2009/09/05/arts/design/05ikea.html "
  created: '2009-09-05 02:02:53'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Don't bother reading this thread! All the best bits have been pulled out
    and posted here... \r\n\r\nhttp://www.tampabay.com/features/humaninterest/word-for-word-verdana-ikeas-new-catalog-typeface-riles-designers/1033828"
  created: '2009-09-05 13:55:35'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "<cite>Don\u2019t bother reading this thread!</em>\r\n\r\nA little late telling
    me that now, isn't it?\r\n\r\nHas anyone been to a fully Verdanized IKEA-store
    yet, by the way? I didn't see much of it at all in Oslo."
  created: '2009-09-05 14:59:07'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: Double post, sorry.
  created: '2009-09-05 15:06:45'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Sorry, if only typophile supported the email innovation known as \"top-posting\"
    \r\n\r\n>A little late telling me that now, isn\u2019t it?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-05 15:39:46'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: I was only joking. But yes, the possibility of adding information up top would
    improve things. But I guess it would be misused -- especially in a thread like
    this.
  created: '2009-09-05 15:47:10'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: It was a joke, but a way to skip to the "new" posts would be great :-)
  created: '2009-09-05 15:58:59'
- author:
    name: borgitac
  body: Definitely cheapens their look. Guess they are trying to communicate that
    they've lowered some of their prices?? But it just makes the brand look cheap.
    Stupid design choice. They should bring Futura back.
  created: '2009-09-05 18:37:28'
- author:
    name: Jean Klare
  body: "Reducing costs is a returning argument in the choice for Verdana. But it
    should be obvious to anyone who has a basic grasp on how typography works that
    this is a blatant misunderstanding.\r\n\r\nA simple test shows that Verdana is
    not only inadequate for print, has questionable readbility off-line, but it also
    runs very uneconomically. It takes at least 10-20% extra space compared to its
    predecessor Futura.\r\n\r\nConsidering Ikea produces tens of millions of pages
    of print and unthinkable advertising inches worldwide, it is clear this will cost
    a lot of extra money if copywriters are not instructed to lose more than 20% of
    their copy from now on.\r\n\r\nI my view the choice for Verdana is typographically
    unsound aswell as economically stupid, but also questionable from an environmental
    standpoint."
  created: '2009-09-05 20:34:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"t takes at least 10-20% extra space compared to its predecessor Futura.\"\r\n\r\nNot
    if you set it at a smaller point size and negatively track it to something reasonable
    for print.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-09-05 22:13:54'
- author:
    name: radiantice
    picture: 111025
  body: "This is pretty interesting...the future of Verdana enchancements \r\n\r\nhttp://www.ascendercorp.com/pr/2009-09-08/"
  created: '2009-09-08 12:54:29'
- author:
    name: postmodern
    picture: 117970
  body: Long live Futura, down with fonts with little integrity.
  created: '2009-09-08 17:54:32'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\u201Clittle integrity\u201D - a strange choice of words.\r\n\r\nin\u2022teg\u2022ri\u2022ty
    [ in t\xE9ggr\u0259tee ]\r\n\r\nnoun \r\n\r\nDefinition:\r\n \r\n1. possession
    of firm principles: the quality of possessing and steadfastly adhering to high
    moral principles or professional standards\r\n\r\n2. completeness: the state of
    being complete or undivided (formal) the territorial integrity of the nation\r\n\r\n3.
    wholeness: the state of being sound or undamaged (formal) public confidence in
    the integrity of the voting process\r\n\r\nI think Verdana trumps Futura on all
    of these definitions. Perhaps lack of available weights has some impact on 2.
    Is that what you meant?\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-08 18:15:30'
- author:
    name: P A Hardy
  body: "Well I would call myself part of the broad public - albeit a relatively type-aware
    representative. And I am interested. And anyway, surely if it's only experts who
    are commenting then their opinion carries more weight? If it's <em>only</em> health
    & dietetic experts who declare your food product too sugary/fatty, does that mean
    it doesn't matter?\r\n\r\nIronically my work colleague recently produced some
    internal identifier labels for our work process & typed them in Verdana. I thought
    they were OK for the job but looked a bit clunky. After reading this thread I
    realised the problem with them was the kerning"
  created: '2009-09-08 20:28:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"down with fonts with little integrity\"\r\n\r\nVerdana does an excellent
    job of working perfectly in the environment for which it was designed. It solves
    the design problem of readable text on screen quite well. In so doing, there had
    to be compromises made in the areas of print text and display. To me, therefore,
    it has great integrity. It does EXACTLY what it was asked to do. Think of it like
    Braille.  It works for those who are unsighted and know how to read it but is
    pretty lousy as a print text for the sighted non-Braille reader.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-09-08 21:04:36'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Another interesting LA Times spin on the saga... \r\n\r\nhttp://www.latimes.com/business/la-fi-neil8-2009sep08,0,3168538.column\r\n\r\n...seems
    as if the whole thing was a social engineering experiment by IKEA and/or their
    robot overlords. "
  created: '2009-09-08 22:48:09'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: When everything is said and done, pros and cons, good arguments and bad arguments...
    it still looks stupid.
  created: '2009-09-10 22:36:52'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Nick said <cite>I\u2019ve been \u201Coutraged\u201D for years that [\u2026]
    Verdana doesn\u2019t have Light weights</cite>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/61743\">Soon
    to come!</a> (The availability for web design is another story, of course.)"
  created: '2009-09-10 22:45:23'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">The availability for web design is another story, of course\r\n\r\nThis
    suggests a certain level of availability.\r\n\r\n\"The Ascender, Carter & Cone
    and Font Bureau project intends to optimize the Verdana and Georgia fonts for
    many new applications, including extended text formatting on <STRONG>websites</STRONG>
    and in print.\""
  created: '2009-09-11 02:46:33'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "Verdana and Georgia would be my sans-serif and serif fonts of choice if I
    was told I could only have one of each. So I'm delighted that Ascender is extending
    the family. However the semantics of \"availability\" are important based on distribution.
    If the extended family is a commercial release for a fee, which seems certain,
    it won't be fully available on the client/receiver side. Without EOT, @font-face,
    or some universal solution to distribution it won't have the impact that it should.\r\n\r\nUntil
    that universal solution comes along, I'll keep playing the theme song for it from
    Phineas and Ferb:\r\n[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HbatIfRg6MU|http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HbatIfRg6MU]]"
  created: '2009-09-11 15:28:56'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'I don''t want to pre-empt what the parties have in mind, as it''s still early
    days. However, if you look at the Web fonts, or more recently the ClearType collection
    fonts, it takes a very long time to get to the installed base you''d need to be
    "Web/IKEA safe" even if you give stuff away for free.  '
  created: '2009-09-11 16:11:07'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "There was an enjoyable radio programme called Aristoteleen kantap\xE4\xE4
    on the Finnish YLE Radio 1 yesterday, where typography in general and its importance
    for reading was discussed and the local typography guru, designer, teacher and
    writer Markus Itkonen interviewed. It was part of a long running series that concentrates
    on Finnish language and its uses, phrases etc. Since the subject was introduced
    with the IKEA case, my guess is that typography got this rare mention because
    of the fuss. The presenter talked about Verdana and Futura, their history and
    designers, why Verdana is called Verdana etc before moving to more general approach,
    including a brief history of type and the difference between serif and sans.\r\n\r\nThe
    show can be heard as an podcast later on or here:\r\n\r\nhttp://blogit.yleradio1.yle.fi/aristoteleenkantapaa"
  created: '2009-09-12 08:07:11'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: I should add that the radio show mentioned above is in Finnish.
  created: '2009-09-12 08:41:46'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "> If the extended family is a commercial release for a fee, [...], it won\u2019t
    be fully available on the client/receiver side. \r\n\r\nI think I hear what you're
    saying, but on the other 'extreme', if a font has a fee, it does not prevent the
    font from being 'fully available on the client/receiver side' for web use. \r\n\r\n>Without
    EOT, @font-face, or some universal solution to distribution it won\u2019t have
    the impact that it should.\r\n\r\n@font-face is the current most advanced universal
    solution to provide font fidelity for web design and web use, but I think it is
    intended for the opposite of distribution unless you mean distribution of processing.
    \r\n\r\n>I don\u2019t want to pre-empt what the parties have in mind\r\n\r\nMe
    neither.\r\n\r\n>if you look at the Web fonts, or more recently the ClearType
    collection fonts...[it takes] a very long time to get to the installed base you\u2019d
    need to be \u201CWeb/IKEA safe...\u201D \r\n\r\nThe model of putting the fonts
    on every personal computer, if not dying, is leaving either horizontally or vertically.
    \r\n\r\nThose CT fonts wouldn't work for IKEA or most other mega media companies,
    though I encourage you to try. They are not agates, they look very particular
    at large sizes and are not easy matches, size-independantly, with the limited
    number of Asian fonts that are also \"web safe\".\r\n\r\nAnd, I would call choosing
    Verdana for all corporate communications IKEAcheap/Web safe, an important difference,
    just to be word safe. ;) The only thing IKEA could be missing is serving, but
    they are not able to count entirely on installed fonts either, Are they?\r\n\r\n>
    ...even if you give stuff away for free.\r\n\r\n...that's a dying model, isn't
    it? The new model is to 'serve' fonts 'for free.' \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-09-12 13:49:08'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "No kidding...I just got back from the How In-HOWse Design Conference. At
    my table there was a nice gentleman from Ikea. We introduced ourselves and I said
    something to the effect of them being the topic du jour amongst designers. Turns
    out that this man, was THE gentleman that made \"the Verdana decision.\"\r\n\r\nGotta
    respect him for sticking to his guns, but I did tell him that as a type nerd he
    was never gonna win me over. :)\r\n\r\nHis reasons made sense from a business
    perspective\u2014I think sometimes how your brand is \"perceived\" doesn't sink
    in until after you've made a drastic change."
  created: '2009-09-12 19:37:53'
- author:
    name: chasenyc
  body: "There was a small piece about this in WNYC(NPR for New York City) along with
    some other interesting typography info. You can here it here: http://www.wnyc.org/shows/lopate/episodes/2009/09/11/segments/140481\r\n\r\nDescription
    of the segment:\r\n\"Our latest Please Explain is all about typefaces and typography.
    Typeface designer Jonathan Hoefler, type designer and president of Hoefler & Frere-Jones
    and Steven Heller, co-chair of the MFA Designer as Author program at the School
    of Visual Arts and author of the VISUALS column for the New York Times Book Review,
    will explain how typefaces are created and why typography is important to communication
    and design.\""
  created: '2009-09-12 23:12:08'
- author:
    name: johndberry
    picture: 109524
  body: "It's worth pointing out, in the context of this wide-ranging discussion,
    that Matthew Carter and David Berlow <em>are</em> working on extending the Verdana
    (and Georgia) type family, under the auspices of Ascender Corp. Though not, so
    far, in the direction of specifically \"display\" versions. The new weights &
    widths should, at least, give a little more flexibility to designers using these
    type families, whether at Ikea or anywhere else.\r\n\r\nBy the way, I confess
    that I don't see any particular resemblance between Verdana and Frutiger. Or at
    least no more resemblance than you'd find between various old-style serif romans,
    or certain chancery italics.\r\n\r\nJohn\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-13 06:29:33'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "David Berlow wrote, \u201C...if a font has a fee, it does not prevent the
    font from being \u2019fully available on the client/receiver side\u2019 for web
    use.\u201D\r\n\r\nThanks for the reply. And yes I was referring to @font-face
    as a means of \u201Cdistribution of processing\u201D. Are you saying that @font-face
    is what will make the new Verdana and Georgia fully available? My previous comment
    was based on @font-face not being fully implemented yet. However based on the
    Berlow and Daniels comments I think I see where this is headed and see much more
    potential than I had."
  created: '2009-09-13 17:43:38'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: Point of clarification; @font-face not fully implemented on the client side.
  created: '2009-09-13 17:56:18'
- author:
    name: praitsidis
    picture: 116167
  body: I can see the point on the web but not for the print. Surely the can get custom
    languages made for them in Futura. Given the choice, I would've gone with Tahoma...
  created: '2009-09-16 16:27:58'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Are you saying that @font-face is what will make the new Verdana and Georgia
    fully available?\r\n\r\nWell, those faces up to now have been available where
    MS wants them available, which seems to be the Mac and Windows. Ascender's license
    with MS makes them available to anyone willing to license them for 'normal' desktop
    distribution, and the latest efforts are intended to make them much more available
    for web serving. \r\n\r\nTo clarify John Berry's statement slightly, the Verdana
    \"Pro\" versions e.g., (the current name of the new series), are not specifically
    made in the direction of \u201Cdisplay\u201D versions. However, the blacker and
    weightier condensed styles are being prepared somewhat independent of their appearance
    as text faces, which is different from the originals as far as I know. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-05 13:35:44'
- author:
    name: jdkleckner1989
  body: "Ok I saw this post a while back. I think this is sad that they are switching
    to accommodate a default font. Seriously, a logo is supposed to be an identity
    mark and switching to a default logo is making a statement. In my opinion, this
    is so microsoft works. Its an amateur move and really show bad on IKEAs creative
    thinking aspects.\r\nSo this move is bad."
  created: '2009-11-07 22:49:01'
date: '2009-08-21 11:01:07'
title: IKEA goes with Verdana

---
