---
author:
  name: Ray Larabie
  picture: 129961
body: "After seeing the FontLab <a href=\"http://forum.fontlab.com/fontlab-studio-problems/old-persistent-fontlab-bug-paste-special-sidebearings-on-composites-t7123.0.html\">paste
  sidebearings bug</a> for the 1000th time, I decided to post it on the FontLab forum
  in the vain hope that it might get fixed. It's been around since <em>paste special</em>
  was introduced and I had mentioned in the old Fontlab Forum. So I'm wondering how
  many bugs we've learned to live with FontLab is aware of. I searched the Typophile
  Forum and found lots of posts about FontLab bugs: bugs which still persist in the
  current version of FontLab Studio.\r\n\r\nI'm getting fed up with weird snapping
  BCPs, <a href=\"http://www.typodermic.com/promotions/the-dead-curve.png\">dead curves</a>,
  bizarre shift-drag,/alt-drag behaviour, \"auto\" naming buttons that name things
  incorrectly and more. Some of these bugs are so old they've probably just forgotten
  about them.\r\n\r\nSo, even if you've mentioned bugs here or on the old forum, pop
  over to the new <a href=\"http://forum.fontlab.com/fontlab-studio-problems-b5.0/\">FontLab
  forum</a> and list them again.\r\n\r\nI don't know about you, but I don't want to
  spend another decade working around the same old FontLab bugs."
comments:
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: '[[http://dailypangram.blogspot.com/2009/08/362.html|Jack''s amazing tranquility
    over software bugs has expired.]]'
  created: '2009-08-30 04:21:49'
- author:
    name: Jason Castle
    picture: 112306
  body: "\"I don\u2019t know about you, but I don\u2019t want to spend another decade
    working around the same old FontLab bugs.\"\r\n\r\nYep, I agree wholeheartedly.
    I've given up reporting FontLab bugs; nobody seems to be listening. At least with
    Fontographer (when it was still Altsys), I used to talk directly to the software
    engineers, and they occasionally listened to me!"
  created: '2009-09-08 15:32:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The  typical problem with a monopoly is that they get into a place where
    they just don't care about the quality of the product anymore. Typeface designers
    are a small niche client base so nobody else is dying to jump in to the software
    development business for that minuscule group. I don't know what the FontLab developers
    do in the 5-year chunks of time between revisions but it sure isn't fixing bugs.
    How many bug squashing updates have they come up with since the release of FLS-5?
    It sure isn't because they ran out of bugs. It is just because they don't give
    a s\xDFhit about their clients.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-09-08 15:51:59'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "If you really want something better talk to George about the development
    of <a href=\"http://www.schriftgestaltung.de/glyphs/screenshots.html\">Glyphs.</a>
    We already have Metrics Machine, Area 51, Superpolator, UFO Stretch, and FDoK
    as small, stable, easy to use replacements for Fontlab\u2019s monolithic mediocrity.
    All we need is a good drawing app and we can just wave goodbye to Fontlab forever. "
  created: '2009-09-08 17:20:35'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "Chris: <em>Typeface designers are a small niche client base so nobody else
    is dying to jump in to the software development business for that minuscule group.</em>\r\n\r\nObviously
    the both of us live in parallel universes.\r\n\r\n<em>The typical problem with
    a monopoly [...]</em>\r\n\r\nIf there is a (problem with a) monopoly, then this
    is basically created by the \u2018small niche client base\u2019 itself.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\nJames:
    <em>monolithic</em>\r\n\r\nAt DTL we prefer a modular system too, hence the structure
    of FM (for more than a decade).\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-09 10:09:31'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: "<em>How many bug squashing updates have they come up with since the release
    of FLS-5?</em>\r\n4.\r\n\r\nGot to get back to work on a good drawing app :)"
  created: '2009-09-09 15:09:38'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "James Puckett: <cite>... All we need is a good drawing app and we can just
    wave goodbye to Fontlab forever.</cite>\r\n\r\n[[http://fontforge.sf.net/|FontForge]]
    has its own flaws, but its Spiro drawing mode may make it an alternative worth
    exploring for you."
  created: '2009-09-09 22:00:48'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Got to get back to work on a good drawing app :)</cite>\r\n\r\nI hope
    you mean that Fontographer 5 in on-schedule, supports UFO, and kicks much ass.
    \r\n\r\n<cite>FontForge\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nFontForge certainly has some advantages,
    but in the end it\u2019s another monolithic, unstable app with an interface that
    makes me feel like I\u2019m running admin tools on Solaris 7. I\u2019m kind of
    surprised that nobody has forked a lighter version just for drawing, leaving everything
    else to the main app or the various other apps.\r\n\r\n<cite>At DTL we prefer
    a modular system too, hence the structure of FM (for more than a decade).</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    know, I know, but the Windows thing is a beast (although I have been playing with
    the bottled version). In 2010 I expect to start playing more with OpenType, and
    might start using your tools to auto-generate the OT fonts so I don\u2019t have
    to mess with code in Fontlab. "
  created: '2009-09-09 22:08:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Got to get back to work on a good drawing app \"\r\n\r\nIt would be better
    if you go back to the insecticide table and work on a better bug-squashing app!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-09-09 23:32:00'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "\r\nLet me tune in here and explain the problem: \r\n\r\nFontLab 4 and FontLab
    Studio 5 for Mac were built using Metroworks CodeWarrior: a PowerPC development
    environment that has been created long before Apple introduced their XCode. It
    was a reasonable environment but the problem with it was that Metroworks sold
    their Intel compiler to some other company short before Apple announced that it\u2019s
    transitioning to Intel technology from PowerPC. \r\n\r\nThe original developer
    who worked on FontLab Studio 5 left the company about two years ago to find some
    other challenges (I guess ten years of developing font editors was too much for
    him). It was not trivial for us to find a new quality programmer to replace him,
    so it took us some time. I\u2019m not sure what your idea of our company is, but
    we certainly are not a huge team. Much rather: a small team. I do apologize that
    we don\u2019t respond to all bug submissions, but please be assured that we\u2019re
    collecting and analyzing them. \r\n\r\nA huge number of the bugs found in FontLab
    Studio 5 for Mac is absent from the Windows version, which is far more stable.
    So for FontLab Studio 6, we decided to abandon the old PowerPC code that was done
    in Metroworks, and port the code again from Windows into XCode. This will allow
    us to build universal binaries, and will for certain get rid of a large number
    of bugs. \r\n\r\nOn top of that, we\u2019ve always been open to collaborating
    with other software developers. We have donated a reasonable sum of money to Erik
    van Blokland, Just van Rossum and Tal Leming for their RoboFab development, and
    we\u2019re currently working with Georg Seifert, the developer of Glyphs. In FontLab
    Studio 6, we plan to have native UFO font format support, so our applications
    can interact with those made by others. We\u2019ve never intended to be \u201Dmonolithic\u201D,
    and don\u2019t intend that in the future. \r\n\r\nI have been working for a few
    months now on some of the issues you\u2019ve mentioned above: much better and
    more consistent family naming management, family linespacing management, automatic
    generation of OpenType Layout features, and others. \r\n\r\nWe\u2019re all about
    diversity. We\u2019re working on releasing Fontographer 5, which will have the
    high quality input and output for various font formats coming from FontLab Studio,
    while it will have a somewhat improved user interface as known from Fontographer.
    FontLab Studio 6 will have some improvements as well. And as I mentioned, if you
    prefer to work in a different drawing environment (Glyphs, DTL applications etc.)
    \u2014 we don\u2019t mind it at all. Actually, we support it. \r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-10 06:47:10'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "In addition to my apologetic note posted above, I'd like to play devil's
    advocate for a moment and offer you a different perspective: \r\n\r\nIt's quite
    interesting that very few people seem to be really bothered that Apple does not
    care much about continuity in their own operating system. \r\n\r\nMicrosoft has
    always made sure that even quite ancient applications work on their newest operating
    systems, so people who have invested in very expensive software systems 10-15
    years ago can still run them \u2014 even if the original manufacturer went out
    of business and there is no chance to actually upgrade the software. \r\n\r\nApple
    has been changing platforms and APIs happily, and has been dumping the responsibility
    to \"make their apps compatible\" with the new system, again and again. And even
    more surprisingly, users happily keep upgrade prices even if the sole purpose
    of the upgrade is to make the software run on the new system. \r\n\r\nI would
    like to hear your opinion on that: \r\n\r\nAs far as I can tell, an average Windows
    user, when upgrading from Windows 2000 to XP or from XP to Vista or from Vista
    to Windows 7 just \"expects their existing programs to work\". And if lots of
    applications fail to make a transition smoothly (as was the case with the XP-to-Vista
    transition), people blame Microsoft much more than the app developers. \r\n\r\n(For
    example, I can still run FontLab 3.0 made in 1998 on Windows 7, and it runs fast
    and stable.) \r\n\r\nAn average Mac OS X user upgrades the OS and if some of the
    apps don't work, he typically blames the app developer. I mean, I've switched
    to Mac OS X from Windows about two years ago, and I'm quite happy with the OS
    \u2014 but I was always bothered that lots of software applications don't work
    after the transition. It seems that Apple is much more happily adding and removing
    new APIs in a kind of a ghost chase. Or perhaps Apple has just figured out a better
    way to get the money flowing continuously, both to them and to the 3rd party developers?
    \"Keep the user paying again and again\" \u2014 that indeed is not a bad strategy.
    \r\n\r\nAm I right in my estimation, and if so, why do you think that is? \r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-10 09:56:07'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: "<em>It would be better if you go back to the insecticide table and work on
    a better bug-squashing app!</em>\r\n\r\nConsidering our limited resources what
    would be your recommendations on how to use them:\r\n- keep fixing old stuff based
    on ancient code without hope to ever fix ALL bugs;\r\n- use resources to make
    new things?\r\n\r\nFLS is not the most stable program in the world (especially
    on Mac OS), but its stability is comparable with the \"OK level\" of the industry
    (which is sad). It worked fine with up to 10.5 but apparently recent OS release
    by Apple is not fully compatible with it.\r\n\r\nWe'll see what we can do, but
    since current FLS is not made for Intel Macs, it will require to move ALL current
    database to the XCode. That's not simple. And if you ask me, I'd say that it is
    a waste of time, compared to the new code that we are doing."
  created: '2009-09-10 10:06:30'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Adam,\r\n\r\nA typical response from Apple to non-working applications would
    be \"now they did not read our guidelines very well, did they?\"\r\n\r\n<cite>Microsoft
    has always made sure that even quite ancient applications work on their newest
    operating systems ...</cite>\r\n\r\nThere is always DOSBox :-)"
  created: '2009-09-10 15:21:59'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Theunis, \r\n\r\nright, like Apple always adheres to the guidelines in their
    own software. Because if you click on the \"maximize\" button in the corner of
    iTunes' window, it actually switches to the miniplayer mode ;)\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nAdam"
  created: '2009-09-10 16:49:40'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'Actually, [[http://www.macosxhints.com/article.php?story=20090909124337733|not
    anymore]]! '
  created: '2009-09-10 17:12:49'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Considering our limited resources what would be your recommendations
    on how to use them:</cite>\r\n\r\nDo your resources really need to be so limited?
    I\u2019ve spent $1000 on kerning and interpolation software <em>mostly so I don\u2019t
    have to do it in Fontlab</em>. And I\u2019m just some chump with three typefaces
    on the market. I can\u2019t be the only designer who would be willing to pay more
    of it meant getting a better piece of software."
  created: '2009-09-10 17:33:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Considering our limited resources what would be your recommendations on
    how to use them:\r\n- keep fixing old stuff based on ancient code without hope
    to ever fix ALL bugs;\r\n- use resources to make new things?\"\r\n\r\nFirst, I
    would say that a product that has been on the market for as long as yours should
    be bug free. Being bug free seems to be an obligation supplier has to customer.
    \ Five years is enough time to make it bug free on the Mac as well as on the PC.
    Since you are obviously aware that your Mac customers suffer from bugs more than
    your PC customers. I don't see you offering to reimburse your Mac customers half
    price because your Mac product is only half as good as your PC product.\r\n\r\nIt
    is your obligation to hire capable Mac programmers. I don't know why you can't
    manage to do this unless it is not a priority for you. You should value all of
    your customers equally.\r\n\r\nSo back to your question, Yuri, fix the bugs first
    but don't do it in the dated and useless programming environment. I would rather
    see a bug free FontLab out quickly than a new version filled with new features
    that is still laden with bugs. A smooth running problem free Volkswagen on the
    highway is far better than a 600 horsepower Jaguar sitting in the shop constantly
    needing repairs.\r\n\r\n>>>\r\n\r\n\"A huge number of the bugs found in FontLab
    Studio 5 for Mac is absent from the Windows version, ...This will allow us to
    build universal binaries, and will for certain get rid of a large number of bugs.\"\r\n\r\nThank
    you, Adam for this honesty. A great deal of my frustration with FontLab comes
    from the company's silence. An open dialogue goes a long way in helping customers
    see it from your perspective. Silence and ambiguity gives the appearance of not
    caring.  It is too bad your explanation took so long to be made public. I am usually
    a very easy-going person who is very slow to anger but being left in the dark
    about issues but only getting explanations like \"it is a known bug\" and having
    years go by without correction builds up to a point of severe frustration in me
    (and seemingly to others as well).\r\n\r\nI apologize for my less than gentlemanly
    tone but still stand by my expectation of a bug-free product in a timely manner.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-09-10 19:56:37'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "There is NO such thing as bug-free software.\r\nBut then \u2014 it would
    be nice to have software with the minimum possible number of bugs\u2026 Let\u2019s
    say somewhere well below the industry average of 25 per 1000 lines of code (and
    don\u2019t forget that NASA were extremely fastidious but still could not get
    below 1 per 10000).\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-09-10 20:38:03'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "This Font Lab bashing seems a bit much to me. Every commercial program has
    bugs. It seems the more fixes, the more releases, the more the bugs.\r\n\r\nJust
    today been working with Adobe CS4 Photoshop. You have two images open. (Window
    > Arrange > Float all in Windows). You are using layers. You assign an opacity
    value to a layer for one image. Low and behold, that value is applied to whatever
    was the current layer in the OTHER image -- the one you're not working on, the
    one which not highlighted (the one where ruler is dark), which is suppose to be
    immune to change . . .\r\n\r\nThen there is the bug in ID-CS4 reported by Sheridan
    press (a printer), where copy disappears. That would make ID essentially unusable
    for bookwork. I believe Adobe has come up with a workaround & will get an actual
    fix out soon.\r\n\r\nI don't mean to bash Adobe. I'll continue to use their products,
    just like I continue to use Font Lab.\r\n\r\n(I do, though, fondly remember TeX
    . . .)\r\n\r\nCharles Ellertson"
  created: '2009-09-10 20:44:04'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Having made type on IKARUS, Letraset FontStudio, Fontographer and FontLab,
    I much prefer the latter. And being a small business that has to address customer
    expectations everyday, I can appreciate how difficult it is for a small company
    to do so. The fact that Apple keeps moving the bar cannot make it easy for a small
    software company, and I give FontLab a lot of credit for giving us the tools that
    make our work easier. I for one cannot imagine making OpenType relying solely
    on Apple and Adobe font tools. Of course there are frustrations, but I for one
    try to keep an even keel, and offer my positive suggestions in the spirt of trying
    to improve the product.\r\n\r\nSo now stop complaining and get back to work!"
  created: '2009-09-10 20:49:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"So now stop complaining and get back to work!\r\n\r\n\"\r\n\r\nJames, I
    am glad to see you have overcome your eye problem and are back healthy and ready
    to work :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-09-10 22:11:23'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: "I am the one who wants to have FLS bug-free more than anyone else. FLS is
    my brainchild and you don't want your child to be sick :) Unfortunately, we are
    very small and, as a result, slow. Basically Apple changes rules more too fast
    for us to follow. FLS codebase (codenamed Leningrad) is older than OS X! Since
    then we had X revolution, then Intel and now 10.6. That's a bit too fast for the
    industry which adopted opentype font format in 10 years since its announcement
    :)\r\n\r\nUsually it was enough to publish 4-5 after-launch updates for the product,
    but with FLS5 it became more difficult, considering the size of the product and
    its age. It is right, we must have released FLS6 a year ago, but it didn't happen
    for many reasons. We will do it and we are trying to keep working on perspective
    things in the same time. It is just not easy."
  created: '2009-09-10 23:30:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...We will do it and we are trying to keep working on perspective things
    in the same time. It is just not easy.\"\r\n\r\nYuri, I can appreciate that. Just
    keep talking to us so we don't think you went off on a 5-year vacation :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-09-10 23:54:41'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Mr Yarmola -- <cite>That\u2019s a bit too fast for the industry which adopted
    opentype font format in 10 years since its announcement :)</cite>\r\n\r\nYou are
    too generous. Adoption of OpenType is not completed yet and may take a couple
    of more years.&nbsp;&nbsp;:D"
  created: '2009-09-11 07:44:19'
- author:
    name: _null
  body: "Yeah fontlab has it's flaws, but I haven't encountered anything that I can't
    work around yet. Roll on with the next version, I want that FG style drawing interface
    and a slightly cleaner working environment. Compared to Illustrator CS3, FL is
    a rock.\r\n\r\nI might be sailing out on a limb here, but does anyone like the
    sound of a negative interface for type design? I currently adjust my prefs to
    have a dark background and a white outline when working on the glyphs. Obviously
    kerning and metrics use the normal colour scheme. I just find all the white a
    bit oppressive when I'm giving my curves the 10mm stare. I think the UI given
    the same treatment would work a treat, slightly akin to those dark grey toolbars
    and menus in Illustrator CS4.\r\n\r\nThe thing that makes me mention it, is I
    have a Linotype catalogue from '84 that has a photograph of a type designer using
    an ancient piece of kit (one of those black and green monitors from way back)
    to make outlines, something about it just looks comfortable.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-13 12:41:49'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Are you on a Mac? Pressing control-option-command-8 will invert the entire
    screen. Press the same combo to make it normal again. Personally, I get more eye
    strain from staring at white on black than the other way around.\r\n\r\nRegarding
    bugs in FontLab, I don't run into them often enough for it to be a huge problem.
    Or maybe I've just gotten used to avoiding doing the things that trigger them
    and/or working around them. I would prefer that the team's efforts be put on the
    new code base rather than fixing the old one. I can live with it a while longer
    if I know something better is on the way.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-13 15:25:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I\u2019ve just gotten used to avoiding doing the things that trigger them
    \"\r\n\r\nMark,\r\n\r\nPlease share what these are?  Particularly, what is the
    way to avoid FL5 from randomly blasting your glyph outline with a dozen zig-zag
    lines criss-crossing each other and locking up the app with a spinning beachball
    when you click on a point?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-09-13 20:25:39'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Easy, just don't click on a point!
  created: '2009-09-13 21:14:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I can't click on a point when the app is locked up, Craig. Are you on a Mac
    or PC?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-09-13 21:32:47'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "The problem is some of those things I've avoided doing so long I don't remember
    any more what they were. They've just become ingrained.\r\n\r\nOne thing I do
    do that I think avoids a lot of major nastiness: If I'm working on a path and
    it suddenly does something unexpected, I immediately undo, select the entire path,
    cut it, then paste it again. And save. Something about the way a path is represented
    in memory seems to make it vulnerable to getting scrambled sometimes. Cutting
    and pasting a path seems to sort it out again. At least that's my working model.
    I have no idea what's actually going on.\r\n\r\nAnother thing I do is always save
    if I am running a Python script, especially one that I've written myself. This
    is my most common source of FontLab crashes.\r\n\r\nI've had some crashiness with
    generating Mac font suitcases, but thankfully there's not much need for them anymore."
  created: '2009-09-13 21:53:35'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "@_leigh I switched to a negative interface in FontLab Studio for Windows
    at the beginning on 2009. You can see my dark blue desktop here:\r\nhttp://blog.myfonts.com/\r\n\r\nMost
    of FontLab works in negative colors. Sketch mode is the biggest problem. FontLab
    allows you to customize some colors but a few are hard coded. I have it set up
    so I can tap a key to see preview mode, which is hard coded black on white. If
    I tap it quickly, it does a strobing negative effect which makes it easier for
    me to see curve problems.\r\n\r\nI still love Fontlab and it's very stable in
    Vista. The most frustrating thing is the really really old interface bugs.\r\n\r\nI
    listed several bugs relating to color modification on the forum. I hope when they're
    testing future builds, that they check to see if the interface can set negative.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-14 06:38:50'
- author:
    name: _null
  body: "@Mark - That shortcut rocks the set, insta-negative. Thanks very much.\r\n\r\n@Ray
    - All the shots of the workspaces is pure designer porn! MyFonts are naughty people.
    I ran into the same issues adjusting the colour preferences, guides seem to have
    an overlay effects on them, the colour selected seems to be displayed as an exact
    opposite on a colour wheel, e.g. pink = green\r\n\r\nJust a thought...are these
    bugs and their 'workarounds' listed in the wiki?\r\n\r\nAlso, I remember seeing
    the presentation Yuri did on the development roadmap of FL, it was posted here
    somewhere.\r\nThe new scope and code-base seem ambitious and a solid progression,
    but when is it due? And should we be sending a case of Red Bull and Pro-Plus to
    the team?"
  created: '2009-09-14 09:05:30'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Leigh, \r\n\r\nI think the development roadmap you're referring to was Yuri
    (and, partly, mine) lecture at the Robothon conference earlier this year. The
    presentation details some of our plans, in a bit more detail than what I've written
    before: \r\nhttp://letterror.blip.tv/file/1911058/\r\n\r\nChris, \r\n\r\nI apologize
    that my Typophile attendance has dropped somewhat in the more recent months. One
    part of my work for FontLab is communicating with the users, through the FontLab
    Forum, Typophile and our customer support system, while the other part is product
    management of the upcoming products. Since we're heavily working on new font editors
    now, and coming up with some solutions that should please the users (I hope),
    I've been recently rather busy with that aspect, writing specifications and working
    with our developers. This has, unfortunately, had the negative effect in that
    I am no longer contributing to ongoing discussions as frequently. \r\n\r\nSo in
    any case \u2014 do not interpret our \"silence\" as \"absence\". When we're not
    talking, we're actually working on new versions of our products. :)\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nAdam"
  created: '2009-09-16 18:50:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks, Adam!\r\nI guess in your case, \"Silence is Golden\" :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-09-16 19:01:50'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: I just want to humbly add [[http://typophile.com/node/62344|this suggestion]]
    to the list.
  created: '2009-09-28 17:55:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Andreas,\r\n\r\nAlso Send it in to FontLab via their website so that it gets
    logged in.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-09-28 18:03:40'
date: '2009-08-24 09:29:14'
node_type: forum
title: 10 Years of FontLab bugs

---
