---
author:
  name: Tim Brown
  picture: 110622
body: "As you may know, we have a brand new seedling to nourish: [[http://typedia.com/|Typedia]].
  Besides poking around the site, I recommend the following reading:\r\n\r\n* Jason
  Santa Maria: [[http://jasonsantamaria.com/articles/introducing-typedia/|Introducing
  Typedia]]\r\n* Yours truly: [[http://nicewebtype.com/notes/2009/08/24/why-typedia-matters/|Why
  Typedia matters]]\r\n\r\nI hope you like Typedia as much as I do. As with any similar
  resource that's open to mass editing, there are bound to be opportunities for people
  to scoff and snarl at inaccuracies and naivet\xE9. But if I know Typophiles the
  way I think I do, our positive, helpful camaraderie will only exponentially improve
  tangential projects and resources like this one.\r\n\r\nHow do <em>you</em> feel
  about this new resource? Do you have any questions or concerns?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: " Hi Tim, the site looks great (had some registration issues but seemed to
    work through those). Can you speak to the business model? I see that unlike Wikipedia
    you run ads? Do you take referral income from the font distributors too? I don't
    have a problem with that personally, but as you're asking volunteers to provide
    content, it might be good to include more information in the about section on
    this. \r\n\r\nBest of luck with the venture."
  created: '2009-08-24 20:49:21'
- author:
    name: Tim Brown
    picture: 110622
  body: "I should clarify that I am merely an enthusiastic participant-cum-editor
    here. This is fully Jason Santa Maria's doing, with contributions from the folks
    listed in [[http://typedia.com/about/|Typedia's about text]].\r\n\r\nThanks for
    your thoughts, Simon. Very good questions. Jason can speak to these better than
    I."
  created: '2009-08-24 21:25:09'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "There is a pretty awesome TypeWiki right here on Typophile that could use
    some editing :)\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/typowiki"
  created: '2009-08-25 00:24:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I could spend a dozen hours uploading all my foundry info, to promote my
    fonts.\r\nOn the one hand, it's advertising that I don't have to pay for.\r\nOn
    the other hand, it's free content that Typedia doesn't have to pay for.\r\nSo
    it's not much different than those \"Latest Digital Fonts\" books.\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-25 01:16:33'
- author:
    name: bemerx25
    picture: 112539
  body: I'm thinking some cross-linking would build a great synergy between Typophile
    and Typedia - Typophile for the "everything type" discussions, Typedia for the
    presentation of factual information about specific typefaces. Just my lowly 2
    cents worth...
  created: '2009-08-25 01:19:13'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: I was kind of interested until I saw that the template for specimens is Flash-only.
    I draw letters, why would I have Flash?
  created: '2009-08-25 01:48:39'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "> So it\u2019s not much different than those \u201CLatest Digital Fonts\u201D
    books\r\n\r\nExcept that Typedia will be seen by many more thousands of viewers
    than those books, and a website is a much more direct link to your fonts.\r\n\r\n>
    \ I see that unlike Wikipedia you run ads?\r\n\r\nSo does Typophile. I see no
    issue with a crowdsourced site supporting itself through advertising.\r\n\r\n>
    Do you take referral income from the font distributors too?\r\n\r\nNot currently.\r\n\r\n>
    it might be good to include more information in the about section on this.\r\n\r\nAgree.\r\n\r\n>
    I\u2019m thinking some cross-linking would build a great synergy between Typophile
    and Typedia\r\n\r\nTotally with you, Ben. I've recommended that to Jason."
  created: '2009-08-25 02:03:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Hey James, I have Flash, but apparently it needs upgrading, coz I can't open
    the Typedia specimen file. Guess I haven't paid my taxes to Adobe recently!
  created: '2009-08-25 02:17:10'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">> it might be good to include more information in the about section on this.\r\n\r\n>Agree.\r\n\r\nSounds
    good. I'd also take a look at the terms of use. These seem to be slanted towards
    how a contributor/site visitor might interact with the site content, not what
    the site owner is allowed to do with information provided by contributors.\r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-25 16:16:00'
- author:
    name: Jason Santa Maria
    picture: 110326
  body: "Hi there (it's Jason Santa Maria, though I'm not sure why my name isn't showing
    up on the left there).\r\n\r\n> I\u2019m thinking some cross-linking would build
    a great synergy between Typophile and Typedia\r\n\r\nI would love this.\r\n\r\n>
    Hey James, I have Flash, but apparently it needs upgrading, coz I can\u2019t open
    the Typedia specimen file. Guess I haven\u2019t paid my taxes to Adobe recently!\r\n\r\nUnfortunately,
    we needed to go with a minimum of Actionscript 3, which is Flash 9 and up.\r\n\r\n>
    Sounds good. I\u2019d also take a look at the terms of use. These seem to be slanted
    towards how a contributor/site visitor might interact with the site content, not
    what the site owner is allowed to do with information provided by contributors.\r\n\r\nGood
    point. Basically the only thing I hope to use it for is to provide a resource."
  created: '2009-08-25 17:31:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "How useful will this be as a comprehensive or balanced resource, if a critical
    mass of foundries decide not to upload their font info?\r\n\r\nYou state, \"There
    is no corporate influence unless a particular distributor decides to flood the
    library with their own type,\" but isn't the site predicated on corporate involvement
    to provide content?\r\n\r\nI have enough trouble supporting my distributors with
    new product and metadata, let alone servicing third parties.\r\nFor instance,
    MyFonts' graphic files (\"posters\") are \"crowdsourced\" from its suppliers--I
    would be more inclined to work on those, than for Typedia.\r\n\r\nThe content
    will be provided by some foundries, and some fans, but there will be large gaps.
    \r\nIMO, naming it \"-pedia\" implies a scope that may not emerge.\r\n\r\nI hope
    this isn't too much of a damper on an innovative idea, but I believe these are
    legitimate criticisms of your business model.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-25 18:40:48'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i've tried making a type sample, but the .swf movie i exported only reads
    "Add typeface" what did i do wrong?
  created: '2009-08-25 19:13:50'
- author:
    name: Jason Santa Maria
    picture: 110326
  body: "Nick Shinn:\r\n\r\nWell, you have to start somewhere :)\r\n\r\nI hope that
    by putting the tools out there, it can only grow and get better. Sites like Typophile
    or Wikipedia got to where they are because of their members. I imagine their founders
    had the same intentions and hopes.\r\n\r\nAs for the content, you don't actually
    need to supply anything if you don't want to. We've tried to set up the site to
    make it easy for people to add and expand information, and crediting back to the
    source when possible. So, just merely publishing your information anywhere is
    enough. The hope is that as the site grows, some one along the chain (whether
    designer, distributor, or type enthusiast) will care enough to add the typeface
    to Typedia.\r\n\r\nPaul D Hunt:\r\n\r\nWhat version of Flash are you using? Unfortunately,
    we needed to go with a minimum of Actionscript 3, which is Flash 9 and up."
  created: '2009-08-25 19:32:00'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: Flash CS4 on Win XP
  created: '2009-08-25 20:50:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>we needed to go with a minimum of Actionscript 3, which is Flash 9 and
    up.</em>\r\n\r\nThat severely restricts \"some one along the chain\" from contributing
    visuals.\r\nI suggest you revise the spec to accomodate GIF, PNG, and JPEG.\r\nI
    mean, look how much trouble people have uploading image files to Typophile, even
    with that very basic file format requirement."
  created: '2009-08-25 21:19:28'
- author:
    name: Jason Santa Maria
    picture: 110326
  body: "We heavily researched numerous possibilities for the best way to render out
    type samples, and begrudgingly, went with Flash. I'm the last person who wants
    to use Flash for Typedia, but it's simply the best option for the sake of fidelity,
    even at the expense of some people not being able to contribute. \r\n\r\nOther
    options (like images) suffer from a few big faults. 1) being locked into a specific
    size and character set. 2) different programs AND different operating systems
    introduce a myriad of different rendering options (most of which will introduce
    uncomfortable and inconsistent irregularities in character display). 3) the human
    factor. People will futz with size, color, and content of any templates we provide,
    which can harm any consistency Typedia might strive for. 4) content. We've already
    adjusted the content of the type samples from our holder swf since launch, and
    plan to change it again soon. Originally it was ABC... abc..., we changed it to
    AaBbCc..., and now we've been talking about displaying a word or pangram along
    with that to get a better sense of the way type looks. 5) flexibility. We use
    the same swf to generate the small samples seen in the site's sidebar, the medium
    samples seen on the listing pages, and the big detail samples that popup from
    the listing pages. It's considerably (though not entirely) future-proof, by comparison
    to images.\r\n\r\nAll of these things make image file alone a much weaker option.\r\n\r\nI
    see this is a possible nice inroads to mixing type folks with type enthusiasts
    too. Type folks can help with listings and the people who buy fonts can help with
    samples. I know it's not ideal, but it's the best of what we have right now. I
    will jump at the chance to improve this in the future."
  created: '2009-08-25 21:33:57'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: I hate Flash!!! Please use something else.
  created: '2009-08-25 22:21:09'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Mike, I have the same aversion, but please read Jason's explanation. Consistency
    of rendering and flexibility are reasons enough to go with Flash on a site like
    Typedia.
  created: '2009-08-26 09:07:36'
- author:
    name: Tim Brown
    picture: 110622
  body: "<strong>Conversations and expertise</strong>\r\n\r\nI have admired Typophile
    since I found out about it a few years ago, and not only because it's full of
    knowledgeable folks who love type and are happy to share what they know.\r\n\r\nTypophile
    maintains <strong>the best forum that I have seen anywhere</strong>. Nick mentioned
    the challenge that uploading images presents; whether issues like this fall on
    experience design or are just a matter of user familiarity, they'll happen in
    every system. I haven't run into this problem at Typophile, but I have on other
    sites. Regardless, Typophile's forum is top-notch, and I won't stop [[http://nicewebtype.com/notes/2009/05/27/criticism-for-web-typography/|telling
    folks]] to visit, participate, and appreciate it. New readers: [[http://typophile.com/user/register|signup
    is free]].\r\n\r\nNot only does Typophile sport the finest forum I've found, but
    there's a wiki seamlessly integrated. Zara, thank you for the reminder about Typophile's
    [[http://www.typophile.com/wiki|Typo Wiki]]. It is an excellent resource, and
    I find myself there all the time without even realizing. Terms linked from forum
    posts lead me there.\r\n\r\nThe promise of tools that interoperate like this is
    nothing short of phenomenal; although wikis, in my experience, only occasionally
    deliver on their part of such a promise. Most of the time they're incomplete or
    inaccurate.\r\n\r\nThe Typo Wiki, by luck or by consistent care, is an exception;
    it usually provides me something of value, and often something I hadn't already
    known. Sometimes the superscript \"w\" links I follow lead to empty entries, but
    that's to be expected in every wiki. The information I do find in the Typo Wiki
    feels <strong>reliable, accurate, and thorough</strong>, and I have every reason
    to believe that it is those things because there is every indication of watchful
    guidance and wisdom from folks who know what they're talking about.\r\n\r\nThis
    is my experience of Typophile. Type experts, always eager to talk and offer thoughts
    or tips, as well as occasional, rich wiki references that support conversations
    in the forum. [[http://typedia.com/|Typedia]] is a new way in to this experience.\r\n\r\n<strong>Structure
    and ease of use</strong>\r\n\r\nTypedia is a wiki inasmuch as it affords community
    editing, but the reason it works so well is that it breaks away from wiki convention.
    It is very structured and easily navigable in ways that are often neglected by
    not only other wikis but other reference materials in general; these qualities,
    and the strength of the interface design that reveals them, makes Typedia feel
    <strong>forgiving, easy, and fun.</strong>\r\n\r\nTake for instance the [[http://typedia.com/good-deeds/|Good
    Deeds]] feature. If there are entries missing pieces, this feature encourages
    visitors to fill in the gaps. Consider what predicates such a feature:\r\n\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>Having
    structure enough for the concept of gaps</li>\r\n<li>Allowing for partial entries,
    and</li>\r\n<li>Crafting copy that turns small chores into gold stars</li>\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\nNo
    other reference material anywhere enables this kind of behavior in small doses
    so concise and so effortless as found in Typedia.\r\n\r\nKnowing that such a feature
    exists also makes contributing a lightweight task. If you want to help, all you
    need to know is the name of a typeface, type designer, or foundry. Leave the rest.
    Not only does this make for a fuller 'pedia, it makes for satisfied, engaged participants.\r\n\r\nOf
    course, the capacity of a tool built by a handful of careful, thoughtful folks
    and a horde of folks with more enthusiasm than availability/knowledge is questionable.
    That's why Typedia needs <em>you</em>.\r\n\r\n<strong>Typedia for the basics,
    Typophile for the truth</strong>\r\n\r\nPerhaps this heading is misleading; Typedia
    won't be \"false,\" although misinformation is a constant concern, and Typophile
    offers plenty of basics if you know where to look. But Typedia's natural aptitude
    is for quick facts and nimble browsing, and Typophile's strongest faculty is its
    final word.\r\n\r\nThe presence of masterful thinkers and craftspeople at Typophile,
    despite the friendliest of exchanges I've witnessed, is a barrier for some folks
    because it is overwhelming. Typedia removes this barrier at the cost of being,
    in the short term, empty and only somewhat relevant. But <strong>these things
    will change</strong> in time thanks to the coexistence of these two resources.\r\n\r\nTypophile
    needs a note taker, and Typedia needs things to write down. These resources will
    prosper and be intertwined. Let's encourage folks to use both (cross-linking of
    various kinds is a great idea and has much potential), and play our participation
    to the strengths of each."
  created: '2009-08-26 16:04:31'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "I generally agree with all you've said, Tim. But one could distinguish them
    merely by their focus:\r\n\r\nTypedia is a structured database of typefaces.\r\n\r\nTypophile
    is a resource and forum for everything typographic.\r\n\r\nThere's no reason these
    two sites can't happily coexist."
  created: '2009-08-26 23:31:10'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>(it\u2019s Jason Santa Maria, though I\u2019m not sure why my name
    isn\u2019t showing up on the left there)</em>\r\n\r\nYou'll need to change your
    username for that to happen."
  created: '2009-08-27 00:29:44'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: Coles> Myfonts seem to do really well without Flash.
  created: '2009-08-27 01:42:40'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: 'Big difference: MyFonts has access to every single font they display. You
    will not see samples of fonts that they do not carry on MyFonts.'
  created: '2009-08-27 02:34:50'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">You will not see samples of fonts that they do not carry on MyFonts.\r\n\r\nActually
    they do include samples for fonts that they don't license. Before our fonts were
    available at retail we provided them so they could add them to the system for
    viewing purposes. Same goes for many MI fonts that they no longer license. If
    MyFonts were to add a wiki-feature, that might trump what Typedia is providing...
    or maybe not.\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-27 03:41:01'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Right--forgot about that. Scratch the second part of my comment.
  created: '2009-08-27 04:24:31'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "> MyFonts were to add a wiki-feature, that might trump what Typedia is providing...
    or maybe not.\r\n\r\nMyFonts is a font retailer. As long as they sell type there
    will be font makers who will choose not to supply them with fonts.\r\n\r\nAn independent
    resource that has no stake in selling type is good for everyone."
  created: '2009-08-27 05:06:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Jason, your rationale for Flash makes sense.\r\nBut it would be more user-friendly
    if the poster could just upload a font, and the specimen file would be generated
    automatically on your server.\r\nThat way, all the poster needs is the font, not
    Flash as well."
  created: '2009-08-27 05:15:35'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Not a bad idea. I think that's something that could be built. I guess there
    were license concerns if the uploader was not the IP owner.
  created: '2009-08-27 05:33:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Indeed, most EULAs do prohibit against this sort of copying.\r\nBut it wouldn't
    be a problem for foundries, who, I believe, have the most incentive to generate
    Typedia content. "
  created: '2009-08-27 05:40:06'
- author:
    name: Jason Santa Maria
    picture: 110326
  body: "> You\u2019ll need to change your username for that to happen.\r\n\r\nAs
    far as I can tell, there is only a way to edit your \"Real Name\" from the edit
    profile page, which I have set to \"Jason Santa Maria\" already.\r\n\r\n> But
    it would be more user-friendly if the poster could just upload a font, and the
    specimen file would be generated automatically on your server. That way, all the
    poster needs is the font, not Flash as well.\r\n\r\nThe hope is that at some point
    in the future we'll be able to reach out to foundries and maybe find something
    that can work for everyone. Perhaps there is even a way that we could tap into
    a rendering engine from a site externally and pull it into Typedia (I'm only speaking
    technically, obviously this would coincide with a foundry/distributor offering
    such a service to us).\r\n\r\nAs Stephen said, we wanted to stay away from asking
    people to upload font files anywhere. It's a very slippery slope, which is why
    Cufon was also vetoed as a possible means to display samples.\r\n\r\nOne thing
    I'm looking to explore for now is a possible way that we can generate a swf in
    a browser and bypass the need for someone to own Flash. Meaning, if the typeface
    is active in your system, you load up a page that allows you to select a typeface
    from the ones active on your machine, and generate a swf. This would make things
    very easy, no template to download, no files to upload. Just a few clicks and
    done."
  created: '2009-08-27 06:50:04'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: 'jason - send a DM to a moderator and they will change your name. '
  created: '2009-08-27 07:13:15'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Done.
  created: '2009-08-27 09:35:15'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>One thing I\u2019m looking to explore for now is a possible way that
    we can generate a swf in a browser and bypass the need for someone to own Flash.
    Meaning, if the typeface is active in your system, you load up a page that allows
    you to select a typeface from the ones active on your machine, and generate a
    swf. This would make things very easy, no template to download, no files to upload.
    Just a few clicks and done.</cite>\r\n\r\nPlease, do! :-)"
  created: '2009-08-27 09:42:59'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">An independent resource that has no stake in selling type is good for everyone.\r\n\r\nThat
    kind of comes back to my original question about the business model. Currently
    there's \"no stake\" but these things have been known to change."
  created: '2009-08-27 15:52:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...An independent resource that has no stake in selling type ...</em>\r\n\r\nThen
    where will the money come from to run it?\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-27 16:08:21'
- author:
    name: Jason Santa Maria
    picture: 110326
  body: "> Then where will the money come from to run it?\r\n\r\nLuckily, we have
    very low overhead. It's entirely a volunteer project right now. Hosting is donated,
    a we use free service where possible. Any potential money will go towards improving
    the system or finding ways to give back to the members."
  created: '2009-08-27 17:24:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>It\u2019s entirely a volunteer project right now. </em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    how many projects start out.\r\nBut long-term viability is dependent on getting
    income to pay for people and services, once the period of goodwill is over, and
    volunteers burn out.\r\nSo \"right now\" is the operative phrase.\r\nYou may not
    have any longer term plans just yet, but you know very well that Typedia cannot
    survive in the long term without \"a stake in selling type\" -- i.e. ads or sponsorship
    from foundries.\r\nTypophile collects moneu for its Featured Face.\r\nAnd Typographica
    sells nameplate ads.\r\nSo please, don't be so coy and cut the BS about \"independent
    resource with no stake in selling type\"!\r\nWhat is wrong with a financial model
    that runs on type foundry money?\r\nWhat other feasible way is there to finance
    a type site?\r\nHow about starting a foundation?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-27 19:22:16'
- author:
    name: Tim Brown
    picture: 110622
  body: "Nick, Simon, I hear you about the potential of future opportunities to change
    how Typedia might be funded.\r\n\r\nBut the independence Stephen mentions is more
    about the integrity of Typedia's catalog than the actual money it collects. The
    point is, Typedia's catalogue isn't driven by any one distributor, foundry, designer,
    or individual. You can expect to see, presented impartially, information about
    and samples of any typeface, designer, or foundry, so long as someone has added
    these to the catalog."
  created: '2009-08-27 21:01:34'
- author:
    name: Jason Santa Maria
    picture: 110326
  body: "> So please, don\u2019t be so coy and cut the BS about \u201Cindependent
    resource with no stake in selling type\u201D!\r\n\r\nWell, it's true :)\r\n\r\nTypedia
    has no desire to sell type or be a font distributor. There are many community
    sites that run and maintain themselves with little or no funding. Typedia doesn't
    need to be a gigantic social community or anything, and I'd actually prefer if
    it stayed fairly small and dedicated."
  created: '2009-08-27 21:25:30'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'I guess we''re way getting ahead of ourselves, but there are cases out there
    of valued independent community sites that disappear when the proprietor loses
    interest, trust-fund runs out or worse. What would we all do if a site like Typophile
    were to fold and all the inspiring, educational posts were to be gone forever
    ;-) '
  created: '2009-08-27 21:47:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...presented impartially...</em>\r\n\r\nHow are search results prioritized?
    Ranking is partial.\r\n\r\nGiving \"classic examples\" of a genre is not impartial.\r\n\r\nI
    must disagree that the catalogue is impartial.\r\nFor instance, Mercury Display
    is listed as in the \"Similar to\" of Century Schoolbook?!\r\nThe blurb about
    Mercury is copious \"first person\" advertising copy by H&FJ, describing how it
    is derived from Fleischmann's work.\r\nProps to H&FJ for having such keen fans!\r\n\r\nI
    suspect this site will be partial to popular faces, and to foundries that commit
    to uploading their faces, describing them in glowing terms, and leveraging \"similar
    to\" links and search ranking.\r\n\r\nI was amused to see that Archer (\"Sweet
    but not saccharine, earnest but not grave, Archer is designed to hit just the
    right notes of forthrightness, credibility...\")  is listed as a Scotch Modern
    (\"medium to high stroke contrast\").\r\nWhat is to stop this kind of commercialism
    on a site that purports to have \"no stake in selling type\"?\r\nBTW, whether
    it originates from foundry (which I doubt in this case) or fans, the effect is
    still highly promotional.\r\n\r\nWiki has changed:\r\nhttp://www.pcworld.com/article/170826/wikipedia_changes_editing_policy.html\r\n\r\nSo,
    I think you need to consider committing resources to \"flagged revisions\".\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-27 22:21:04'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: I have to agree with Nick about impartiality. If Typedia wants to be an impartial
    source, people who paste in their marketing copy need to have their user accounts
    and IP blocks permanently banned in the same way that the IP blocks associated
    with the US congressional offices have been banned from Wikipedia.
  created: '2009-08-27 22:23:21'
- author:
    name: Jason Santa Maria
    picture: 110326
  body: "> I suspect this site will be partial to popular faces, and to foundries
    that commit to uploading their faces, describing them in glowing terms, and leveraging
    \u201Csimilar to\u201D links and search ranking.\r\n\r\nBut not unlike Wikipedia,
    it's kept in check by it's community. If someone starts swaying things in a marketing
    direction, there will be backlash.\r\n\r\n> I was amused to see that Archer (\u201CSweet
    but not saccharine, earnest but not grave, Archer is designed to hit just the
    right notes of forthrightness, credibility...\u201D) is listed as a Scotch Modern
    (\u201Cmedium to high stroke contrast\u201D)\r\n\r\nThat's kind of the point,
    if you see something inaccurate, you have the power to correct it.\r\n\r\n> BTW,
    whether it originates from foundry (which I doubt in this case) or fans, the effect
    is still highly promotional.\r\n\r\nThis is the same information that you can
    collect by searching for a typeface in Google. We made it easy to post information
    about how a foundry describes one of their typefaces (and credit a source, namely
    the foundry site), but there is just as much of an opportunity for anyone to change
    that to something more impartial.\r\n\r\n> I have to agree with Nick about impartiality.
    If Typedia wants to be an impartial source, people who paste in their marketing
    copy need to have their user accounts and IP blocks permanently banned in the
    same way that the IP blocks associated with the US congressional offices have
    been banned from Wikipedia.\r\n\r\nI'm more than happy to talk to people that
    seem to be abusing the site, and if need be, remove their account.\r\n\r\nHonestly,
    like any community site, of course there is the opportunity for negative interactions,
    but there is just as much incentive for positive ones. It all depends on how you
    approach the site. Typedia can be whatever you make of it. But if we only point
    out flaws in an open system, you'll certainly only see the negatives. :)"
  created: '2009-08-27 22:43:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...if you see something inaccurate, you have the power to correct it.</em>\r\n\r\nCome
    on, it's not my job to curb the enthusiasm of other foundries' fans!\r\n\r\n<em>We
    made it easy to post information about how a foundry describes one of their typefaces...</em>\r\n\r\nThat
    explains the commercialese descriptors.\r\nYou're going to get the foundry default,
    not Jan, Yves or John D. Berry.\r\nWho is going to write all the impartial edits?\r\n\r\n<em>But
    if we only point out flaws in an open system, you\u2019ll certainly only see the
    negatives. :)</em>\r\n\r\nOK, from hereon in I'm gung ho, and will hire someone
    with the latest Flash to upload my fonts!"
  created: '2009-08-27 23:21:10'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "For my part, I've so far only posted one of my families (Coquette), and that
    was during the private beta period. The others have been posted by others. I took
    the liberty of adding samples to those since they were incomplete or missing.\r\n\r\nA
    foundry doesn't necessarily have to post their library, unless perhaps they feel
    that it's being overlooked by Typedia's users. Ideally most of the entries would
    be contributed by users of typefaces.\r\n\r\nI'm interested in adding older pre-digital
    typefaces that haven't been digitized (or may never be). The one problem I see
    with the way samples are done is that there is no way to add faces that are not
    available in digital outline format.\r\n\r\nAnother thing I'd like to see people
    add is information (and samples if possible) about custom or proprietary faces.
    This is something one would not likely find on a site selling fonts."
  created: '2009-08-28 00:16:16'
- author:
    name: Jason Santa Maria
    picture: 110326
  body: "> I\u2019m interested in adding older pre-digital typefaces that haven\u2019t
    been digitized (or may never be). The one problem I see with the way samples are
    done is that there is no way to add faces that are not available in digital outline
    forma\r\n\r\nIt's actually easy for us to enable normal image uploads for these
    cases, we just need to figure out how the interaction happens first, and to still
    direct people to upload swfs for typefaces that are digital. It's definitely on
    the list of forthcoming improvements."
  created: '2009-08-28 00:34:18'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "My take: don't really give a hoot about what business model is being used
    or any of that.\r\nWhat I like is that because of who is initially involved in
    the project, and the \"*pedia\" style contributory nature of the thing - names
    and faces from the world of web that wouldn't normally post here but think about
    and use and love type a great deal are being drawn to it and from there, they
    might very well be drawn here as well.\r\nAll of it being driven by @font-face
    and the idea of a web typography that isn't strangled down to a half dozen typefaces.\r\nA
    renaissance of sorts in the making? I hope so.\r\nFonts 2.0"
  created: '2009-08-28 06:15:10'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Nick, I respect your concerns, but half the time you spent critiquing could
    have been spent adding your typefaces to Typedia and describing them as you please.
  created: '2009-08-28 07:52:48'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "Mark's query was one that had been rattling round in my mind \u2013 good
    to see you've considered it Jason; this means there's still scope for someone
    to add entries on great unavailable/undigitized fonts such as Antikva Margaret...\r\n_______________________________________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2009-08-28 10:24:43'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> But long-term viability is dependent on getting income to pay for people
    and services, once the period of goodwill is over, and volunteers burn out.\r\n\r\nIsn't
    Tyophile still run by volunteers after all this time?\r\n\r\nBut I agree that
    eventually revenues will be needed. Free hosting only happens for sites with low
    traffic. Get successful, and you will need to pay for server time. The Typedia
    folks should really look at the way Typophile has created revenue streams to pay
    for hosting, without compromising integrity."
  created: '2009-08-28 14:24:40'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "How do the \u201CIn the Wild\u201D images work? Are they added by users or
    found by a script? Because I\u2019m seeing a lot of images that don\u2019t feature
    the types."
  created: '2009-08-28 16:01:50'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "<cite>How do the \u201CIn the Wild\u201D images work?</cite>\r\n\r\nThey
    don't. The article on Ensched\xE9's Collis, for instance, is illustrated by a
    picture of a bus in Manchester, and one of unrelated type on fire. Nothing else.\r\n\r\nAs
    it is now, this feature should be removed. This is worse than advertisements (that
    you can block)."
  created: '2009-08-28 16:11:15'
- author:
    name: Jason Santa Maria
    picture: 110326
  body: "> How do the \u201CIn the Wild\u201D images work? Are they added by users
    or found by a script? Because I\u2019m seeing a lot of images that don\u2019t
    feature the types.\r\n\r\nWe're working on improving it."
  created: '2009-08-28 16:23:47'
- author:
    name: Tim Brown
    picture: 110622
  body: "James, Sindre: Jason and others are working to improve the relevance of \"in
    the wild\" images, blending several methods of searching Flickr. Being careful
    not to pull in copyrighted photos (or photos that don\u2019t allow creative commons
    use) has restricted the number of results somewhat, but you can be sure that the
    accuracy of this feature will improve in time."
  created: '2009-08-28 16:27:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: ".\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-08-28 16:58:05'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: Very, very cool site. I approve this message. :)
  created: '2009-08-28 18:11:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...half the time you spent critiquing could have been spent adding your
    typefaces to Typedia and describing them as you please.</em>\r\n\r\nSilly me,
    I'd rather talk trash than feather my nest.\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-28 18:48:18'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Another thing you could do to increase the usefulness of Typedia is display
    characters that go beyond the basic stuff needed for American English. Diacriticals,
    eth, thorn, ash, oethel, eng, the pound, and the euro are all important characters
    that researchers might need to look at and not be able to find a specimen of.
  created: '2009-08-29 01:13:28'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: I don't think Typedia will ever show full character sets, only enough to get
    the general sense of a typeface. The foundries and resellers will hopefully do
    that job well.
  created: '2009-08-30 05:47:20'
date: '2009-08-24 20:28:33'
node_type: forum
title: Typedia hearts Typophiles

---
