---
author:
  name: Chris Dean
  picture: 111971
body: Can someone describe [[Typekit]] to a luddite?
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'I would describe it as a web font obfuscation service. A layer between browser
    and font that provides just enough hacking, hiding, along with rights-management,
    to make (some) type designers comfortable with allowing their fonts to be used
    with the @font-face linking mechanisms supported by Web browsers. '
  created: '2009-08-25 20:35:24'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: So it lets a web designer use a font that s/he owns, and a user can see it
    even if that don't have it installed?
  created: '2009-08-25 20:48:41'
- author:
    name: deseynerseye
  body: 'Sounds like it''s embedding the font in that particular web site - is that
    correct? '
  created: '2009-08-25 21:11:03'
- author:
    name: Ken Messenger
    picture: 111387
  body: It's a service. From what I can tell you can't use any font you own, just
    those that Typekit offers. You could use any font you own with @font-face if the
    fonts EULA allows it (most won't).
  created: '2009-08-25 21:13:18'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: I don't know what "@ font face" or "EULA" means. I'm not being devil's advocate.
    I'm actually a luddite.
  created: '2009-08-25 21:18:25'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "\"@fontface\" is a declaration in CSS* that allows a specific font which
    may not be on a viewer's machine to be loaded along with the web page and thus
    allow a web page to display text rendered in something other than \"web-safe\"
    default fonts -- as a font, not as an image.\r\n\r\nDifferent browsers have different
    implementations of this @fontface declaration, supporting different font formats,
    etc.\r\n\r\nWeb designers find it cumbersome and a nuisance to keep track of all
    the different variations in code and formats to address the idiosyncrasies of
    different browsers that their viewers may be using. It is also confusing and frustrating
    for well-intentioned designers to understand which, if any, of the fonts they
    have or want will allow such a use as part of a font vendor's End User License
    Agreement (EULA).\r\n\r\nOn the other side of the equation, most vendors do not
    have licensing models for allowing use of their fonts for this kind of web \"embedding.\"
    Most are reluctant to allow this use because some of the current browsers only
    support @fontface with \"naked\" fonts (i.e., the same OpenType or TrueType font
    format that can be installed directly on a desktop machine and used for any other
    purpose) and the security against these fonts being rather inadvertently or innocently
    acquired and used elsewhere is minimal.\r\n\r\nEnter TypeKit (among others) as
    a service. They arrange with foundries to offer typefaces for use as web fonts
    (taking advantage of @fontface to serve up fonts to the web page). They host the
    font files on their own server and take pains to obfuscate the location and the
    contents of those files in various ways, to add a layer of security against misappropriation
    that their partner foundries accept. \r\n\r\nWeb designers who subscribe to the
    service select from the fonts on offer and are provided with copy-and-paste code
    that allows them to utilize these fonts in their web pages via CSS stylesheets,
    without having to worry about the details of the evolving technology and with
    confidence that they are correctly licensed. Typekit takes care of making sure
    that various browsers are served the appropriate formats in such a way that maximum
    compatibility and consistency is provided for the design.\r\n\r\nEssentially TypeKit
    is building a bridge between web designers and font vendors by taking care of
    the messy muddle in the middle in terms of both technology and licensing ins and
    outs.\r\n\r\nI hope I've stated this clearly for you and that my understanding
    does an adequate job of representing the essence of the situation.\r\n\r\nOthers
    can correct any oversimplifications or add any essential elements that I've skipped.\r\n\r\n--
    Kent.\r\n\r\n[Edit]: * Sorry, I forgot to explain: CSS stands for Cascading Style
    Sheets and is used hand-in-hand with HTML for formatting and styling web pages."
  created: '2009-08-25 21:43:33'
- author:
    name: Ken Messenger
    picture: 111387
  body: "And for anyone else on the fringes:\r\n\r\nhttp://typekit.com\r\n\r\nhttp://blog.typekit.com/2009/05/27/introducing-typekit/"
  created: '2009-08-25 21:53:11'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "This is some good basic reading too ... \r\n\r\nhttp://opentype.info/blog/2009/07/29/why-webfont-services-are-the-future-of-fonts-on-the-web/ "
  created: '2009-08-25 23:27:15'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: You can see the rendering (hopefully) of two of my babies (Galette & Mentone)
    <a href="http://www.paragraph.com.au/typekit.html">here</a>. Do not know whether
    they both work on IE/Win, though (Sii, could you please let me know?).
  created: '2009-08-26 00:47:17'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Galette seems to work, Mentone does not. IE7 on Vista.
  created: '2009-08-26 01:15:29'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> You can see the rendering (hopefully) of two of my babies (Galette & Mentone)
    here.\r\n\r\nCool. First time I had seen type kit in use. And it does work on
    IE7.0.5 on Windows. A second of display in the default serif, and then it pops
    into the correct faces. (I wonder if the delay is server related, and if it will
    grow longer if the service becomes popular.)"
  created: '2009-08-27 13:54:27'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "@Paragraph: There is a lag of three or four seconds before the \u2018real\u2019
    fonts kick in. I am on a Mac w OS X 10.5 and Safari 4 (latest release). And in
    the Netherlands, if that is of consequence.\r\n\r\nThe lag makes it kind of unusable.
    Except if it just happens in the first webpage, I guess, IF it caches in some
    way.\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-08-27 15:05:10'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "@Paragraph: have you tweaked something? When sii posted, my system (IE6 on
    Win XP Pro) agreed with his verdict. Mentone seems to show OK for me as well now
    though. Although the \u2122 symbol isn't working in the Galette sample.\r\n_______________________________________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2009-08-27 15:06:52'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "TypeKit is one of many web-sites-as-a-service that allows you to put some
    javascript on your page that, in turn, will automatically load the appropriate
    javascript and/or css files necessary for you to load typefaces onto your page
    for use in standard HTML.\r\n\r\nThey have arisen for a few reasons (IMHO, of
    course):\r\n\r\n - convenience for the web designer...we just add one line to
    our HTML to set it all up\r\n - perceived protection for the type designer (there's
    a certain level of obfuscation that many foundries find acceptable over directly
    uploading fonts to your own server)\r\n - pricing options. It appears that, at
    least with typekit, there will be a buffet-type pricing scheme.\r\n \r\n"
  created: '2009-08-27 15:22:30'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Mentone seems to show OK for me as well now though.\r\n\r\nSame here. :-)\r\n\r\n>The
    lag makes it kind of unusable. \r\n\r\nVery little lag - a second at most on my
    set up. But any lag makes me think people might start putting Web fonts on the
    metrics of the core fonts to reduce the reflow-flicker when the fonts load in.
    \r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2009-08-27 15:56:23'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "By the way, as it says in the thread title, it's \"Typekit,\" not \"TypeKit.\"\r\n\r\nI
    wouldn't bother mentioning it except I'm just so glad to see a name that's not
    in \"camel case\" for a change. (Maybe it's an indication of a trend away from
    that.)"
  created: '2009-08-27 17:24:57'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: Given the target audience is web designers/developers, perhaps camel case
    would have been more appropriate. ;)
  created: '2009-08-27 17:30:08'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "And the logo is all lowercase - so I say anything goes :-)\r\n\r\nHow about...
    TyPeK\u0131T!"
  created: '2009-08-27 17:45:15'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Thank you all for this, AFAIK the Typekit folk are making the submitted OT
    fonts compatible with IE right now, perhaps Mentone was just tweaked. How about
    the rendering? Below is Safari 4.0.3/Mac OSX 10.5.8:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/saf_6742.png]"
  created: '2009-08-28 00:56:50'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@christopher dean\r\n\r\n\"<em>So it lets a web designer use a font that
    s/he owns, and a user can see it even if that don\u2019t have it installed?</em>\"\r\n\r\nAlmost.
    It lets a web designer use a font that s/he licenses for use from the font service,
    like Typekit, even though the user doesn't have it installed in their operating
    system.\r\n\r\nOn a technical level, it works similarly to the way block ads -
    like the ones for Font Bureau here at Typophile - are included in the page. Similar
    principal except instead of including a link to block ad images, the link is to
    font data. Both are handled by Javascript that creates the HTML and CSS necessary
    to link to the correct resource on the fly as the page loads in the browser."
  created: '2009-08-28 05:41:46'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">AFAIK the Typekit folk are making the submitted OT fonts \r\n\r\nProve it.\r\n\r\nAnd
    the rendering looks great, but do you have something slightly lighter?\r\n\r\nAnd
    why do the uppercase italic letters look more slanted than the l.c., are they
    all the same angle or is it something worse?\r\n\r\n>http://typekit.com\r\n\r\nAre
    they using their own service anywhere on thir own site?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-08-28 11:58:56'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: 'David: if there is anything wrong with the rendering of the fonts, it is
    my fault, not Typekit''s. They serve the stuff, they do not make it.'
  created: '2009-08-28 13:51:36'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">...if there is anything wrong with the rendering of the fonts, it is my
    fault...\r\n\r\nI know that. All rendering quality depenze on the digital outline
    font input and the scaling quality. \r\n\r\nDo you have something slightly lighter
    or not!?\r\n\r\n>...not Typekit\u2019s.\r\n\r\nI never said it was Typekit\u2019s
    \ fault. \r\n\r\nI asked you to prove that they were serving OT, meaning OpenType,
    (.otf) fonts converted to EOT to IE users.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-08-28 14:31:56'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Well, that one should be simple: I sent them .otf\r\nIs that proof enough?\r\n\r\nLighter?
    I thought that Mentone Light was already on the too light side at small sizes."
  created: '2009-08-28 14:38:25'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Well, that one should be simple: I send them .otf\r\n>Is that proof enough?\r\n\r\nKind
    of depends if you gave them conversion rights as part of the license you signed
    with them.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2009-08-28 14:45:48'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: 'Maybe I should just shut up. Disclaimer: all rendering mishaps in said Mentone
    and Galette samples are entirely my fault. The good bits are courtesy AFDKO autohint.'
  created: '2009-08-28 14:57:33'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Is that proof enough?\r\n\r\nNo, but thanks. Why don't you ask them. You
    have a licensing agreement don't you?\r\n\r\n>Kind of depends...\r\n\r\nSimon,
    it depends on whether they are trying to serve some fonts to all IE, or some IE
    with some fonts, and some IE with other fonts. Is that clear?\r\n\r\nThat's 'interoperability'.
    If they or anyone told their foundry clients the whole situation before they made
    licensing agreements, I'd be pleasantly shocked.\r\n\r\nWhile you're awake 'over
    there', Simon, can you point me to a web site that serves an Embeddable OpenType
    font (that is the same as an Embedded Opentype font, except that since it's never
    embedded, I remain tense correct), with more than 256 glyphs in the EOT?\r\n\r\nAnd
    I apologize to anyone, 'in-the-know' who knows that EOT does not generally contain
    any OT if it's going to work in all IE. \r\nBut they/we still cannot change the
    name of EOT fast enough for these discussions. ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-08-28 15:12:33'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "FWIW Jan, this is what I get in IE/Win:\r\n(Note that it doesn't seem to
    find your real italics, as well as the poor rendering at some sizes, and the missing
    \u2122 in one font but not the other...)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/samples_3713.gif]\r\n________________________________________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2009-08-28 15:18:07'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "...oh and the sample page prints OK (crisply, but still without the real
    italics) to a physical printer or to a third-party PDF utility, but not to Acrobat,
    which complains:\r\n\r\n<code>%%[ ProductName: Distiller ]%%\r\nMentone-Light
    not found, using Courier.\r\n%%[ Error: invalidfont; OffendingCommand: show ]%%</code>\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-28 15:20:56'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "David, just one last remark, if I may: I do not have enough understanding
    of these matters to be a worthwhile sparring partner to you. I am attracted to
    Typekit by their practical approach to the problems you and the others have been
    discussing at length in the other threads and elsewhere. I like \"practical\",
    as I am too daft and old for \"theoretical\".\r\n\r\nCheers to you too.\r\n\r\nDave,
    that's pretty bad, back to drawing board ... no smoothing/antialiasing at all?
    Just a raw bitmap? Simon to the rescue!"
  created: '2009-08-28 15:37:38'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "By the way, the italics and the trademark render fine in my Firefox, so whatever
    it is, it's as issue of incompatibility with IE (No surprise there then.) rather
    than with Windoze.\r\n______________________________________________\r\nEver since
    I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2009-08-28 15:39:26'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "DB> Simon, it depends on whether they are trying to serve some fonts to all
    IE, or some IE with some fonts, and some IE with other fonts. Is that clear?\r\n\r\nI
    wasn't thinking of IE or EOT, I was speculating that they might convert to TrueType
    to give broader support across different platforms - eg. Linux, or versions of
    Windows that don't support CFF.\r\n\r\nDB> While you\u2019re awake \u2019over
    there\u2019, Simon, can you point me to a web site that serves an Embeddable OpenType
    font (that is the same as an Embedded Opentype font, except that since it\u2019s
    never embedded, I remain tense correct), with more than 256 glyphs in the EOT?\r\n\r\nSorry
    David, I'm awake but I don't have a clue as to what you're asking. \r\n"
  created: '2009-08-28 16:36:30'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Dave, that\u2019s pretty bad, back to drawing board ... no smoothing/antialiasing
    at all? Just a raw bitmap? Simon to the rescue!\r\n\r\nFor sure, funnily enough
    they contacted me for the first time last night. The email had the subject line
    \"EOT, Microsoft, and What the Hell\" :-)\r\n\r\nI'm certain we can help them
    adjust their CFF -> TTF -> EOT conversion process to improve the rendering in
    IE."
  created: '2009-08-28 16:45:33'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@sii\r\n\r\n\"<em>I\u2019m certain we can help them adjust their CFF -> TTF
    -> EOT conversion process to improve the rendering in IE.</em>\"\r\n\r\nThis is
    a big problem that I'm still trying to find answers to. I have spent good money
    on OTF CFF fonts that look like hell in Windows no matter what I do. And I am
    not automatically assigning blame to Windows, either. Safari's rendering of body
    text drives me nuts, so I'm not a big fan of their approach to rasterizing within
    Windows, either.\r\nJohn Hudson quite graciously took the time to explain to me
    the fundamental differences between TT and CFF but how do we bridge the gap with
    regard to web fonts?\r\nI might email you on this one, Simon, and soon.\r\nWhat
    \"help\" might be on the way?\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://readableweb.com\">Richard
    Fink</a>"
  created: '2009-08-28 19:07:53'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> This is a big problem \r\n\r\nActually I think it's the *biggest* problem
    - once you get the whole licensing thing out of the way.\r\n\r\nIn Windows CFF
    fonts are generally rendered using a separate \"black-box\" PostScript rasterizer
    licensed from Adobe. \r\n\r\nFor the Web, what's cool about services like Webkit
    is that they can serve different fonts to different browsers running on different
    platforms depending on the rendering style of the browser, type of display etc.,
    Something that's incredibly hard to do on a case-by-case basis for the average
    web site owner, unless they are working side by side with a font vendor who can
    provide a set of custom fonts - people like Font Bureau or Ascender."
  created: '2009-08-28 19:25:45'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: Firefox in Windows XP just shows me Verdana...
  created: '2009-08-28 20:01:33'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Go to options / internet / fonts / and unclick \"IKEA\"\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-28 21:11:16'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: http://www.cssquirrel.com/comic/?comic=32
  created: '2009-08-28 21:14:33'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '@ Fink (in joke. you had to be there): Do you have an online bio?'
  created: '2009-08-28 21:35:53'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "They explain the joke in the related blog post. \r\n\r\nhttp://www.cssquirrel.com/2009/08/17/comic-update-typekit-comes-to-font-faces-rescue/\r\n\r\nBut
    if you <EM>have</EM> to explain the joke..."
  created: '2009-08-28 21:36:56'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "DB> While you\u2019re awake \u2019over there\u2019, Simon, can you point
    me to a web site that serves an Embeddable OpenType font (that is the same as
    an Embedded Opentype font, except that since it\u2019s never embedded, I remain
    tense correct), with more than 256 glyphs in the EOT?\r\n\r\nMe> Sorry David,
    I\u2019m awake but I don\u2019t have a clue as to what you\u2019re asking.\r\n\r\nI
    asked around, and we think you're asking if its possible to include more than
    256 glyphs in an EOT. The answer is yes, although you probably want to subset
    a font, that's not required. As a test I took a font with over 600 glyphs and
    made an EOT, seems to work fine...\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Capture_3902.GIF]"
  created: '2009-08-28 21:44:11'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "<em>CFF -> TTF -> EOT conversion process</em>\r\n\r\nSi, is this conversion
    something that should not be tried at home? "
  created: '2009-08-28 22:11:00'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Actually nothing to stop you giving this a try. Output TTF from FontLab and
    try various hinting settings, as well as different weights and styles. Then on
    a Windows installation you can proof different settings using HTML and IE. Once
    you've found the optimal settings you can create an EOT using WEFT or the Ascender
    EOT lite tool. Post the results to your site for peanut-gallery-review.   \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2009-08-28 22:24:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Rich: <em>John Hudson quite graciously took the time to explain to me the
    fundamental differences between TT and CFF but how do we bridge the gap with regard
    to web fonts?</em>\r\n\r\nUse the same rendering technology for both outline types?\r\n\r\nTop:
    Windows GDI CFF font rasterisation using Adobe blackbox.\r\nBottom: Windows WPF
    CFF rasterisation using ClearType.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CFFwCT_4873.gif]\r\n\r\nI
    suspect David will say this is bridging the gap by making CFF fonts look bad in
    the same way as TTF fonts, but there's something to be said for things looking
    bad in the same way rather than in divergent ways.\r\n\r\nUndocumented: how CT
    rasterisation of CFF interprets CFF hint data."
  created: '2009-08-28 23:56:50'
- author:
    name: outrasfontes
    picture: 112120
  body: "Keeping the Typekit in mind, BTW, there is a forum with the most common questions
    and problems involved in the current beta version of their service.\r\n\r\nhttp://getsatisfaction.com/typekit\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-29 01:29:48'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "I'm a little tired, and it's been a few days since I followed this thread
    but I read through it. Given there's a few acronyms I don't understand, can someone
    explain the relationships between Typekit and ClearType, TrueType, Black box,
    Hinting, Fontlab &c or are we talking about different things now (not that that's
    a problem). \r\n\r\nI thought Typekit was a \"middle man\" between vendors, designers
    and viewers. Is this correct or am I back to being confused?"
  created: '2009-08-29 02:43:07'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "\u2022Typekit = Web service that schleps fonts in a way similar to Doubleclick
    schlepping ads. Yes, it is a middle man.\r\n\u2022Hinting = Instructions in a
    font that tell software how to render it so that it fits into a pixel grid without
    looking like a postmodern experimental design.\r\n\u2022TrueType = A font format
    created by Microsoft and Apple because everyone got pissy about John Warnock enforcing
    the Postscript patents. TrueType provides an awesome hinting system for rendering
    type at small sizes, but only ten people know how to use it and nobody else wants
    to figure it out because TrueType hinting is like watching paint dry. In New Orleans.\r\n\u2022ClearType
    = Microsoft\u2019s hype, I mean type, rendering engine. It is not especially relevant
    because it does a poor job of rendering the Postscript fonts that people actually
    want to use. Because Microsoft doesn\u2019t want anyone to steal their secret,
    they don\u2019t tell us how it really works so almost nobody knows how to make
    type look good with ClearType.\r\n\u2022Blackbox = I think John was referring
    to the Adobe type rendering engine. It sucks, but it sucks consistently across
    platforms.\r\n\u2022Fontlab = What we\u2019re all stuck using to create fonts
    until Glyphs is released."
  created: '2009-08-29 03:05:16'
- author:
    name: outrasfontes
    picture: 112120
  body: "<cite>I thought Typekit was a \u201Cmiddle man\u201D between vendors, designers
    and viewers. Is this correct or am I back to being confused?</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's
    the basic idea behind sevices like Typekit, Christopher. A middle-way where web
    designers can use fonts through a subscription. Designers can copy ad paste simple
    code to their pages and choose wich fonts to use in the service's interface, without
    having to deal with more complex issues like the highly technical ones exposed
    here.\r\n\r\nI'm giving a try, supplying some few selected display fonts to see
    how the response of web designers will be for this kind of type design approach."
  created: '2009-08-29 03:45:47'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Thanks for the definitions James. I know what the words mean, I just don't
    understand how they relate to what Typekit Does. Instinct tells me the that the
    conversation is becoming somewhat tangential. I'm quite curious to see how Typekit
    unfolds.
  created: '2009-08-29 04:29:21'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "The definitions relate to Typekit because Adobe, Microsoft, and Apple have
    made it excessively irritating to create type that looks good onscreen and across
    software and OS platforms. So instead of just being able to license the existing
    Postscript fonts, everybody has to make and test TrueType hinted fonts to use
    with services like Kernest, (and if it leaves beta before the PR person spends
    all the money, Typekit). This is a problem for type vendors who have a lot of
    high-end text faces, because hinting the fonts for use at text size is going to
    take a long time and cost a lot of money, especially if it turns out that web
    designers would really just rather stick with Georgia and Verdana because most
    people won\u2019t spot much difference at ten pixels anyway. "
  created: '2009-08-29 05:18:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "James: <em>\u2022ClearType = Microsoft\u2019s hype, I mean type, rendering
    engine. It is not especially relevant because it does a poor job of rendering
    the Postscript fonts that people actually want to use.</em>\r\n\r\nThis is incorrect.
    The (ir)relevance of ClearType to PostScript fonts on the web is that in all current
    browsers ClearType doesn't render PostScript <em>at all.</em> In GDI, which is
    the legacy graphics interface still used by almost all Windows apps, PostScript
    fonts are rendered using a 'black box' system from Adobe. The term 'black box'
    is used to refer to a piece of software that one company licenses to another for
    use but without any right to modify or look at the code. Adobe licenses a PS rasteriser
    to Microsoft.\r\n\r\nIn the new Windows Presentation Format, ClearType rendering,
    which in GDI only works for TTF, now renders CFF PS fonts also (not PS Type 1
    fonts, though). But very few apps and no browsers use WPF. Which is a pity for
    a number of reasons, not least WPF's excellent built-in OpenType Layout suppport,
    and superior ClearType rendering (blending x-direction CT colour antialiasing
    with y-direction greyscale antialiasing for crisply smooth display type).\r\n\r\n<em>Because
    Microsoft doesn\u2019t want anyone to steal their secret, they don\u2019t tell
    us how it really works so almost nobody knows how to make type look good with
    ClearType.</em>\r\n\r\nYeah, that's why they published a book about it.\r\n\r\n<em>\u2022Blackbox
    = I think John was referring to the Adobe type rendering engine. It sucks, but
    it sucks consistently across platforms.</em>\r\n\r\nI was referring specifically
    to the Adobe PS rasteriser licensed for use in Windows GDI. Adobe have multiple
    type rendering engines, which they use in their apps, some rather better than
    others and most newer than the GDI one.\r\n\r\n_____\r\n\r\n\r\nChristopher: <em>I
    just don\u2019t understand how they relate to what Typekit does.</em>\r\n\r\nIt
    relates in a number of ways. Firstly, there is the general issue of what all these
    different rendering engines, font outline and hint formats, and web font delivery
    formats actually do with the font when it appears in the browser. This issue is
    not restricted to Typekit: it affects all use of fonts on the web.\r\n\r\nJames
    asserts that 'Postscript fonts [are what] people actually want to use'. This is
    probably true for a lot of display type, but if people are looking for alternative
    text types for webpages, I think they're going to find that most PS fonts look
    like crap on most users' systems. I don't think TrueType is going to cease being
    the better screen font format any time soon. Adobe have been steadily improving
    their PS rasterisers over the past decade, but I suspect there are diminishing
    returns and a fixed limit of how good they can get within the PS hint model.\r\n\r\nKarsten's
    actually done the homework:\r\nhttp://kltf.de/kltf_notes_raster.htm\r\n\r\nSecondly,
    this relates to Typekit because the service they offer includes converting and
    serving different web format fonts to different browsers, depending on the capabilities
    of those browsers and the limitations of the web font delivery formats accepted
    by them. Typekit serves EOT format fonts to Internet Explorer, which because of
    a bug in Windows (not in the EOT format itself, note) can only handle EOT fonts
    containing TrueType format outlines and hints. So if you are a font maker and
    license your fonts for use in the Typekit service, then you need to be aware that
    the outline format will be converted to TTF before being served as EOT. Personally,
    if I were licensing through Typekit, I would much rather have control of that
    conversion process on my end, and deliver TTFs to Typekit to serve as EOTs. [Somewhere
    on Typophile recently I posted some simple steps to maximise the quality of FontLab
    TT autohinting, such that it produces pretty good results with ClearType rendering.
    Controlling y-direction alignment and features has the biggest overall impact
    in subpixel rendering environments, and this can be controlled relatively easily
    within FontLab with careful use of alignment zones and standard stem values.]"
  created: '2009-08-29 05:19:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "James: <em>This is a problem for type vendors who have a lot of high-end
    text faces, because hinting the fonts for use at text size is going to take a
    long time and cost a lot of money.</em>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/autoCT_6616.gif]\r\n\r\nIs
    this optimal? No. But then it also wasn't designed as a screen font, and the autohinting
    was done quickly.\r\n\r\nThis also demonstrates that the biggest problem with
    fonts designed as \u2018high-end text faces\u2019 for print when used on screen
    isn't hinting: it's spacing. In full-pixel rendering environments, TT includes
    hint instruction of advance widths, making it possible to control spacing on screen
    independently of spacing for higher resolutions. In ClearType, you lose this ability;
    with PostScript, you never had it in the first place."
  created: '2009-08-29 05:40:34'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '@ Puckett & Hudson: Thanks for the great answers. Very helpful.'
  created: '2009-08-29 07:18:53'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>\u2022TrueType = A font format created by Microsoft and Apple because
    everyone got pissy about John Warnock enforcing the Postscript patents.</cite>\r\n\r\nActually,
    TrueType was created by Apple (only), as a replacement for Type 1, which was costing
    Apple a lot in licensing fees. Apple was to combine TrueType with Microsoft's
    TrueImage (a PostScript replacement) so that both Apple and Microsoft could stop
    paying Adobe so much money. (TrueImage never took off, though.)"
  created: '2009-08-29 08:45:16'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "John Hudson wrote:\r\n<em>Somewhere on Typophile recently I posted some simple
    steps to maximise the quality of FontLab TT autohinting, such that it produces
    pretty good results with ClearType rendering. Controlling y-direction alignment
    and features has the biggest overall impact in subpixel rendering environments,
    and this can be controlled relatively easily within FontLab with careful use of
    alignment zones and standard stem values.</em>\r\n\r\nI've been searching around,
    but haven't been able to stumble upon this thread. Does anyone have a link to
    it? I'd really like to see it! Thanks\u2026"
  created: '2009-08-29 10:17:30'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Yes please, John. I can not find it either and providence knows I need it.
  created: '2009-08-29 13:20:06'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I think TypeKit is great for companies who really \"don't want to know\"
    about server software, probably don't want to have \"that conversion conversation\"
    with themselves, and want the foundry/customer link to be at least distant from
    each other, if not a distant memory. And of course, it or any such service, separates
    the unknowing foundry from the likelihood of profit. \r\n\r\nFrom our Suburban
    Legends Corrections Department:\r\n\r\n>\u2022Hinting = Instructions in a font
    that tell software how to render it\r\n\r\nNot how to render, how to scale. After
    the glyph is scaled to the upm and perhaps according to the hints, then the rendering
    happens. Two things. \r\n\r\n>\u2022TrueType = A font format created by Microsoft
    and Apple because everyone got pissy about John Warnock enforcing the Postscript
    patents.\r\n\r\nApple did it alone, and I remember no patents ever issued to Adobe
    on this matter. TT was all done on a dare; as in, Adobe said to everybody, \"We
    dare you to make better fonts\" and the rest is Hysteria.\r\n\r\n>\u2022ClearType
    = Microsoft\u2019s [] rendering engine. ...\r\n\r\n...does scaling and rendering.
    \r\n\r\n>\u2022Black box = \r\n\r\n..this is actually something you want to recover
    when your rendering engine fails, your project crashes, and the National Association
    of Readers want to launch an investigation.\r\n\r\n>the biggest problem with fonts
    designed as \u2018high-end text faces\u2019 for print when used on screen isn\u2019t
    hinting: it\u2019s spacing.\r\n\r\nIt's a problem with fonts(?) because spacing
    can't be hinted and work in CT/QTZ/Whatever Adobe calls it now? What is the low
    res solution, John?\r\n\r\n>I suspect David...\r\n\r\nI do too. But I know where
    my EOTs are. How 'bout you? \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-08-29 13:31:58'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Curiouser and curiouser. Below is my son's dump in IE6/Win XP, taken tonight
    in Prague. The italic is fake, and the trademark is missing too, BUT why is the
    rendering so much better than the one above by Dave?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/xtie6_6187.png]"
  created: '2009-08-29 14:23:03'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "In that screen grab ClearType is turned off - that's the default in Windows
    XP.\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-29 16:19:15'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Well, that's progress for you. Thanks, Si.
  created: '2009-08-29 16:24:29'
- author:
    name: outrasfontes
    picture: 112120
  body: "<cite>I think TypeKit is great for companies who really \u201Cdon\u2019t
    want to know\u201D about server software, probably don\u2019t want to have \u201Cthat
    conversion conversation\u201D with themselves, and want the foundry/customer link
    to be at least distant from each other, if not a distant memory. And of course,
    it or any such service, separates the unknowing foundry from the likelihood of
    profit.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's your point of view, David. But I don't think that
    accusing other foundries is a good way to convince consumers. I think they will
    choose what's best for them in each case.\r\n\r\nIf all the foundries involved
    \"want the foundry/customer link to be at least distant from each other\", there
    would be no foundries involved discussing here or anywhere. Makes sense for you?\r\n\r\nWhat
    is the problem about trying a different model, like the ones offered by Kernest,
    Typekit, Fontdeck, &c? What's the big deal? I don't accept \"it's not FontBureau\"
    as a valid argument, even though the geat respect I have for your work."
  created: '2009-08-29 16:55:24'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: Dan, could it have been <a href="http://typophile.com/node/60281#comment-357964"
    target="_blank">this</a>?
  created: '2009-08-29 18:12:01'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Thanks! That sounds like it must be right.
  created: '2009-08-29 18:20:59'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "<cite>my son\u2019s dump in IE6/Win XP</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>In that screen
    grab ClearType is turned off - that\u2019s the default in Windows XP.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    think it\u2019s not Windows rendering."
  created: '2009-08-29 18:21:55'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'I think you''re correct - zooming in you see the color fringing. Interesting,
    it kind of looks like WPF. Could it be Windows Safari, doesn''t match Firefox? '
  created: '2009-08-29 19:10:03'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Me thinks it would benefit a Typekit employee to track this thread.
  created: '2009-08-29 19:30:00'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>[Spacing is] a problem with fonts(?) because spacing can\u2019t
    be hinted and work in CT/QTZ/Whatever Adobe calls it now? What is the low res
    solution, John?</em>\r\n\r\nIn CT, the solution should be to set a flag that enables
    x-direction deltas, i.e. to re-enable hinting of widths. It should be possible
    to hint either to full or to sub-pixel widths.\r\n\r\nBut that leaves Apple's
    Quartz rendering which dumps all hints, and Adobe's subpixel rendering, which
    makes use of at least some hints but isn't documented.\r\n\r\nThe only cross-platform
    solution for well-spaced screen fonts is the one you hit on David: ppem size-specific
    fonts."
  created: '2009-08-29 19:49:36'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Thanks, Karsten. Yes, that's the post.
  created: '2009-08-29 19:51:26'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "More cans of worms...yeesh.\r\n\r\nNow that @font-face has brought a new
    awareness and a new level of scrutiny to fonts, people are next going to be wondering
    why, if a font has been well-crafted, it still doesn't look good.\r\n\r\nMy biggest
    beef is that in Windows, at larger sizes, antialiasing stinks. The jaggies are
    awful. This is true whether it's Safari, Chrome, Firefox, or IE using Windows
    native rendering engine.\r\nI've already mentioned - in keeping with John Hudson's
    screen grab - that rendering of OTF CFF fonts stinks at *any* font size.\r\nBut
    I have to ask: If CFF is a simpler format than TrueType, and one that deliberately
    conveys less hinting information to the rasterizer (do I have this right?), then
    what exactly is it that Windows is being asked to do? Make it look less bad (which
    seems the case in Hudson's WPF example) or on a par with a well-hinted TrueType
    font? And if the answer is, \"On a par with TrueType\", well, isn't this too much
    to expect if the information necessary doesn't exist in the font?\r\nAnd if the
    aim is only \"less bad\", that doesn't exactly speak well of CFF as a format suitable
    for screen-readability, does it?\r\n\r\nRE: John Hudson's comparison screen shot...\r\n>Windows
    WPF CFF rasterisation using ClearType.\r\n\r\nMy understanding is that IE8 in
    Standards Mode, renders using a port of WPF. In other words, IE8 is innately capable
    of this sort of rendering of CFF fonts. If my understanding is correct, a good
    question is, \"Why doesn't it do so?\"\r\n\r\n@sii\r\nOn the Flash Of Fallback
    Fonts (FOFF):\r\n>Very little lag - a second at most on my set up. But any >lag
    makes me think people might start putting Web fonts on >the metrics of the core
    fonts to reduce the reflow-flicker >when the fonts load in.\r\n\r\nDesigners are
    going to be bugged by this, no doubt. There may be ways, via JavaScript, to suppress
    the rendering of the page until all the fonts show up. We'll see if that gets
    any traction. Matching up the metrics between two fonts can be tricky and it's
    an additional bother and barrier to adoption. We'll see how this one plays out.\r\nBTW
    - Safari (on Windows, at least) waits for the fonts to show up.\r\n\r\n>Kind of
    depends if you gave them conversion rights as part >of the license you signed
    with them.\r\n\r\nI'm wondering how this gibes with consumer protection laws.
    If I bought it and own it and it's broken, do I not have the right to fix it?
    I'm not so sure the licensing contract would trump local statutes.\r\n\r\n@john
    hudson\r\n>Somewhere on Typophile recently I posted some simple steps >to maximise
    the quality of FontLab TT autohinting\r\n\r\nObviously we've got gaps in knowledge
    that need filling. Anything anyone can contribute with regards to making fonts
    more screen-friendly will have a great impact.\r\n\r\n@christopher dean\r\n>Do
    you have an online bio?\r\nDude, you're my friend on Facebook! If you need something
    more formal, message me there.\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-29 19:57:18'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "&#$@%!\r\n\r\nI went to look at the Mentone test page in Safari on Windows,
    to check Si's theory that the third Mentone screenshot in this thread might be
    Safari rendering. For the second time a web page using custom fonts in Safari
    has crashed my entire system with a blue-screen-o'-death. The first time was with
    David's Franky test page.\r\n\r\nSafari is now on my Dangerous Piece of Sh*t list.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-29 20:08:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Rich: <em>My understanding is that IE8 in Standards Mode, renders using a
    port of WPF. In other words, IE8 is innately capable of this sort of rendering
    of CFF fonts. If my understanding is correct, a good question is, \u201CWhy doesn\u2019t
    it do so?\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nBecause it still only displays EOT fonts and the Windows
    bug that limits EOT to TTF font data is still a factor?\r\n\r\nOr are you talking
    about something else?\r\n\r\nIf you want to test CFF rendering in IE8, you'll
    need to spec a locally installed font in your CSS."
  created: '2009-08-29 20:12:31'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Rich, where are you getting your information about IE8 using a \u2018port
    of WPF\u2019 in standards mode? This doesn't make a lot of sense to me, since
    WPF is a graphics imaging environment, i.e. something to which an application
    might be ported, not something that would be ported to an application.\r\n\r\nI've
    looked at TTF rendering in IE8, and it is using the Vista system rasteriser, not
    the WPF rasteriser. [The easiest way to distinguish them is to look at larger
    glyphs and see whether there are y-direction jaggies. WPF uses y-direction greyscale
    antialiasing, so looks smoother.]"
  created: '2009-08-29 20:19:13'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Dan citing John -- <cite>Controlling y-direction alignment and features has
    the biggest overall impact in subpixel rendering environments, and this can be
    controlled relatively easily within FontLab with careful use of alignment zones
    and standard stem values.</cite>\r\n\r\nUnfortunately, partial hinting is not
    a solution since ClearType is not the only rasterization method at work in Windows.
    Users may use greyscaling instead -- and then hinting of verticals will be noticably
    missing.\r\n\r\nI wish that Windows would provide something comparable to Apple's
    rasterization and make it the default at least for unhinted fonts. If fonts are
    hinted, ClearType or greyscaling may take over for improved results.\r\nThe assumption
    \"no rasterization without hinting\" however is out of date since at least a decade.*
    That a font is not hinted is not an excuse any more for rasterizing it poorly.\r\n\r\nRichard
    Fink -- <cite>[...] then what exactly is it that Windows is being asked to do?
    [...] isn't this too much to expect if the information necessary doesn't exist
    in the font?</cite>\r\n\r\nTo equal up with what Apple is able to deliver without
    any hints. Even if you do not like it, with <em>unhinted</em> fonts, Apple's rasterization
    gives better results than both ClearType and greyscaling. ClearType has problems
    with horizontals and greyscaling is too light.\r\n\r\n(P.S. It is only when using
    IE8 as a \"host\" for viewing XAML that WPF is at work. Not for rendering HTML.)\r\n\r\nKarsten\r\n\r\n*
    Perhaps it is worth citing from Peter Karow's EP/RIDT'98 article (page 271 in
    the proceedings):\r\n<cite>Working at Adobe in 1995, I learned that hints were
    the major invention with respect to digital typefaces and that they belong to
    them due to the typefaces' digital nature. Therefore, in general, (gray)scaling
    without using hints would be a sacrilege despite the comparisons and tests made
    by their font people which showed that the best results were obtained without
    hints.</cite>"
  created: '2009-08-29 20:43:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Karsten: <em>Unfortunately, partial hinting is not a solution since ClearType
    is not the only rasterization method at work in Windows. Users may use greyscaling
    instead \u2014 and then hinting of verticals will be noticably missing.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    wasn't suggesting partial hinting, only noting that y-direction controls have
    the largest overall impact on quality. You can also autohint vertical stems with
    fairly good results if you take care to create appropriate standard stem values.
    Basically, what one is doing in this approach is applying something similar to
    the PS hinting model within TT: providing fairly basic alignment and stem weight
    information, and letting the rasteriser make the best it can from this. The quality
    of the result will depend on the rasteriser more than on the font; again, this
    is like PS hinting. Black and white rendering is what really needs manual hinting;
    as soon as antialiasing is invoked, you can start to get reasonable results from
    carefully set-up autohinting. Optimal results? No. But reasonable and economical.\r\n\r\n<em>It
    is only when using IE8 as a \u201Chost\u201D for viewing XAML that WPF is at work.
    Not for rendering HTML.</em>\r\n\r\nAh. That makes sense. Thanks."
  created: '2009-08-29 21:06:39'
- author:
    name: outrasfontes
    picture: 112120
  body: "Jan,\r\n\r\nThis is what I see under Windows IE8:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/paragraph-ie1_5449.png]\r\n\r\nAnd
    this is what I see under Windows Firefox 3.5:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/paragraph-ie_6587.png]\r\n\r\nBoth
    should be equal, but for some strange reason, Windows are using greyscale mode
    in FF, even though its configured to use only ClearType.\r\n\r\nThe question is:
    Why the f*** is Windows trying to do that?\r\n\r\nTesting <a href=\"http://www.outrasfontes.com/typekit-samples.htm\">my
    fonts in use with Typekit</a> it seems not to be happening (in my tests at least).
    Although my fonts are intended for big sizes, I forced it to small to see what
    happens in that situation.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-29 22:55:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Re. Mentone:\r\n\r\nWhat you are seeing in IE8 is an EOT font containing
    CFF-to-TTF converted font data, as discussed earlier in this thread. This is rendered
    using the system ClearType rasteriser.\r\n\r\nWhat you are seeing in Windows Firefox
    3.5 is a CFF font, rendered using the Adobe black box rasteriser within Windows.\r\n\r\nThe
    ClearType rasteriser under GDI only works with TTF data. So even if you have the
    system configured to use ClearType, you will still get greyscale for PostScript
    fonts.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nThe reason why your fonts display with ClearType in Firefox
    3.5, Ricardo, is because they are TTF fonts, not CFF.\r\n\r\nVery nice, too."
  created: '2009-08-29 23:50:59'
- author:
    name: outrasfontes
    picture: 112120
  body: "<cite>@k.l.\r\nI wish that Windows would provide something comparable to
    Apple\u2019s rasterization and make it the default at least for unhinted fonts.</cite>\r\n\r\nMe
    too. Since Microsoft likes to copy a lot of things from Apple, I would not be
    surprised. I would be thankful. ;-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-29 23:53:50'
- author:
    name: outrasfontes
    picture: 112120
  body: "@ John Hudson\r\n\r\nI was imagining that. That's why I tried to use only
    TTF data. Thanks for the clarification, John."
  created: '2009-08-30 00:05:20'
- author:
    name: bryanmason
    picture: 117895
  body: "Bryan from Typekit here. There are a few points here for which I thought
    I'd provide some info.\r\n\r\n<em>  >I was speculating that they might convert
    to TrueType to give broader support across different platforms - eg. Linux, or
    versions of Windows that don\u2019t support CFF.\" (Sii)</em>\r\n\r\nThat is exactly
    right. We convert the original format (with permission, of course) to make the
    font work in as many environments as possible. While doing that, we are dedicated
    to preserving the quality of the font to the largest degree possible. We very
    much appreciate the help provided by not only partners like Jan (paragraph), but
    from forums like this.\r\n\r\nAdditionally, we are talking to Sii and his team
    at MSFT, as well as helpful folks like Bill Davis at Ascender, to work through
    these issues. Every day we are developing techniques to improve the interoperability
    and the quality of type we're delivering.\r\n\r\n\r\n<em> >There is a lag of three
    or four seconds before the \u2018real\u2019 fonts kick in. (bert_vanderveen)\r\n>
    Very little lag - a second at most on my set up.(Sii) </em>\r\n\r\nIt's worth
    mentioning that we have multiple server locations on each continent, ensuring
    that any user has the fastest possible connection to the fonts. This gives our
    service a consistent starting point - it then comes down to an individual user's
    geography, internet connection, browser and operation system to determine their
    final experience. \r\n\r\nWe fully expect the browsers will continue to refine
    their algorithms for the display of downloaded resources (like images.) Additionally,
    we're working on some tricks to make the delay/flicker less apparent.\_ \r\n\r\nAlso,
    we work hard to use caching to our advantage. The flicker upon load should be
    significantly reduced when navigating around a site with the same fonts.\r\n\r\n\r\n<em>
    \ >Note that it doesn\u2019t seem to find your real italics (dtw)</em>\r\n\r\nTypekit
    style-links the fonts so that they act/work naturally -- meaning if you specify
    bold, it renders using the actual bold font file. Currently, IE does not support
    style-linking with @font-face. As such, we use a single file for that browser,
    and IE synthesizes bold and italic. We are looking at work-arounds that will allow
    users to gain increased control by accessing the font weights/styles individually.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n<em>
    >By the way, as it says in the thread title, it\u2019s \u201CTypekit,\u201D not
    \u201CTypeKit.\u201D (Christopher Slye )</em>\r\n\r\nFor the record, we are not
    a fan of camel case. But that's just us.\r\n\r\n\r\nThanks again for all your
    feedback. If there is anyone here that has not seen their invite yet, please drop
    me a note."
  created: '2009-08-30 01:06:53'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "For the record (and I can change the title of the thread) what's the proper
    capitalization?\r\n\r\na) typekit\r\nb) Typekit\r\nc) TypeKit"
  created: '2009-08-30 01:39:09'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "<em>I think it\u2019s not Windows rendering.</em>\r\n\r\nOooops. My apologies
    to everyone, he send me the grab as .pdf (<a href=\"http://www.paragraph.com.au/typekit/ie6-wxp-typekit.pdf\">here</a>),
    and I (unwittingly) grabbed it again on my Mac, thereby muddling the issue even
    more."
  created: '2009-08-30 02:05:27'
- author:
    name: outrasfontes
    picture: 112120
  body: "If the owers call it Typekit, it's Typekit. \r\n\r\nDamn, I almost called
    it tYpEkIt... ;-)"
  created: '2009-08-30 02:06:34'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Re hinting/anti aliasing/grayscale/ClearType: Aren't these points moot at
    >~300 DPI? I'd hazard a guess that's <5 years away.\r\n\r\n*throws in a wrench*"
  created: '2009-08-30 03:01:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>>~300 DPI? I\u2019d hazard a guess that\u2019s <5 years away.</em>\r\n\r\nNo,
    about two feet away. If you want a higher resolution screen, sit further away.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\n200
    dpi screens have been available for about a decade. But how many of them have
    you seen in use? We will see increases in resolutions on small device screens
    (cf. the Palm Pre phone at 180dpi), but probably not on desktop or even laptop
    monitors. The bigger a screen is, the greater the likelihood of a dead pixel during
    manufacture; there is some percentage of attrition in all screen manufacture,
    but the percentage goes up as the screen size goes up, since there are more pixels
    to potentially fail. Obviously the same is true when you increase resolution,
    so the rate and cost of attrition for large high resolution screens is much higher
    than for either smaller screens of the same resolution or lower resolution screens
    of the same size."
  created: '2009-08-30 04:28:58'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Webkit (and EOT-lite for the matter) are about making stuff work today -
    and wherever possible yesterday - ie. the current installed-base of browsers,
    rendering environments and OS''s.  '
  created: '2009-08-30 04:41:16'
- author:
    name: outrasfontes
    picture: 112120
  body: "<cite>Webkit (and EOT-lite for the matter) are about making stuff work today
    - and wherever possible yesterday - ie. the current installed-base of browsers,
    rendering environments and OS\u2019s.</cite>\r\n\r\nThanks to Ascender it is already
    working, right? :-) But only in IEs and <a href=\"http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-font/2009JulSep/1209.html\">FF
    test build</a> (not officialy released yet as a new FF version for end-users)
    for now.\r\n\r\nIts a great contribution, specially if other browser makers will
    want to implement it also."
  created: '2009-08-30 05:28:32'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Thanks Ricardo for the two samples. The differences in the rendering mischief
    by themselves are remarkable, let alone the fact that neither are acceptable.
    Thanks John for the "Using Fontlab to hint TrueType fonts for use on Windows for
    Dummies" list, that's where I'm heading now. I thought that Blue Screen of Death
    was a thing of the past! Dreadful.
  created: '2009-08-30 07:21:29'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Jonh >It should be possible to hint either to full or to sub-pixel widths.\r\n\r\nIt
    should be as you said, but 'the highest levels of MS' are preventing it. Or does
    your version of 'the hinting tool\" allow it? And does windows look at the hdmx
    table if the instctrl is set to \"natural\"?\r\n\r\nJohn>the Windows bug that
    limits EOT to TTF font data\r\n\r\nSo where is the OpenType in eot?\r\n\r\nJohn>...applying
    something similar to the PS hinting model within TT\r\n\r\nDuh!!! as if TT wasn't
    invented for a reason!? \r\n\r\nRich>More cans of worms...yeesh.\r\n\r\nReally
    Rich? You think you don't know what \"I'm talking about\" and need a course in
    Berlow-speak, but the fact is, you don't know what <em>we're</em> talking about,
    and I'm just saying it the clearest.;) \r\n\r\nSII>Webkit (and EOT-lite for the
    matter) are about making stuff work today - and wherever possible yesterday -
    \r\n\r\nSimon, come over here to the 'sidelines' and let me know when you all
    can get to 'tomorrow', where I will be waiting 'patiently' and will then explain
    to you why there are no 'custom fonts' for the web.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-30 13:32:08'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Jonh >It should be possible to hint either to full or to sub-pixel widths.\r\n\r\nIt
    should be as you said, but 'the highest levels of MS' are preventing it. Or does
    your version of 'the hinting tool\" allow it? And does windows look at the hdmx
    table if the instctrl is set to \"natural\"?\r\n\r\nJohn>the Windows bug that
    limits EOT to TTF font data\r\n\r\nSo where is the OpenType in eot?\r\n\r\nJohn>...applying
    something similar to the PS hinting model within TT\r\n\r\nDuh!!! as if TT wasn't
    invented for a reason!? \r\n\r\nRich>More cans of worms...yeesh.\r\n\r\nReally
    Rich? You think you don't know what \"I'm talking about\" and need a course in
    Berlow-speak, but the fact is, you don't know what <em>we're</em> talking about,
    and I'm just saying it the clearest.;) \r\n\r\nSII>Webkit (and EOT-lite for the
    matter) are about making stuff work today - and wherever possible yesterday -
    \r\n\r\nSimon, come over here to the 'sidelines' and let me know when you all
    can get to 'tomorrow', where I will be waiting 'patiently' and will then explain
    to you why there are no 'custom fonts' for the web.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-30 13:32:09'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John >It should be possible to hint either to full or to sub-pixel widths.\r\n\r\nIt
    should be as you said, but 'the highest levels of MS' are preventing it. Or does
    your version of 'the hinting tool\" allow it? And does windows look at the hdmx
    table if the instctrl is set to \"natural\"? and 1/2 pixel hinting only works
    when OPENTYPE, (the real one), decides it wants to come out and play.\r\n\r\nJohn>the
    Windows bug that limits EOT to TTF font data\r\n\r\nSo where is the OpenType in
    eot?\r\n\r\nJohn>...applying something similar to the PS hinting model within
    TT\r\n\r\nDuh!!! as if TT wasn't invented for a reason!? \r\n\r\nRich>More cans
    of worms...yeesh.\r\n\r\nReally Rich? You think you don't know what \"I'm talking
    about\" and need a course in Berlow-speak, but the fact is, you don't know what
    <em>we're</em> talking about, and I'm just saying it the clearest.;) \r\n\r\nSII>Webkit
    (and EOT-lite for the matter) are about making stuff work today - and wherever
    possible yesterday - \r\n\r\nSimon, come over here to the 'sidelines' and let
    me know when you all can get to 'tomorrow', where I will be waiting 'patiently'
    and will then explain to you why there are no 'custom fonts' for the web.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-30 13:35:14'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "The triple play!\r\n\r\n>Simon, come over here to the \u2019sidelines\u2019
    and let me know when you all can get to \u2019tomorrow\u2019, where I will be
    waiting \u2019patiently\u2019 and will then explain to you why there are no \u2019custom
    fonts\u2019 for the web.\r\n\r\nIn terms of delivery mechanism it seems as if
    there's some convergence around the Let-Tal-Error proposal as a long term solution
    and a compatibility format based on EOT. \r\n\r\nRendering consistency, the strength
    of Flash, seems to be the Achilles-heel, perhaps the long term solution here might
    be a property in the font that makes recommendations about how the font should
    be rendered, or perhaps CSS properties that define rendering style?\r\n\r\n>So
    where is the OpenType in eot?\r\n\r\nIf you mean CFF, then the answer is Windows
    7, and with a bit of luck in a service pack for older versions of Windows.\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-30 15:31:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>So where is the OpenType in eot?</em>\r\n\r\nIn a TTF-flavoured
    OT font? In a TTF with optional OTL tables? In a TTF that contains table versions
    and fields that are not part of any format spec except OT?\r\n\r\nOne might also
    ask where's the OpenType in CFF?\r\n\r\n<em>Duh!!! as if TT wasn\u2019t invented
    for a reason!?</em>\r\n\r\nTT was invented for a number of reasons, but I presume
    you are referring to why the TT hinting model was designed to be different from
    the PS model. Very good reasons c.1990. Very good reasons in black and white pixel
    display. But when we're spending weeks producing VTT hint sources for fonts targeted
    at ClearType, whose results in ClearType are >95% identical to FontLab autohinting,
    and in WPF are almost identical to no hinting at all, how relevant are those reasons?"
  created: '2009-08-31 03:50:25'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@john hudson, sii, karsten, et al...\r\n\r\nLove these threads that veer
    off unexpectedly into the heart of the matter. There is much to mull over here
    and assertions to confirm (including my own). John - I'll try to get clarification
    on the capabilities of the IE8 rendering engine.\r\n\r\nAnd Christopher, I hope
    you now understand what Typekit is!\r\n\r\n@sii\r\n\"<em>Rendering consistency,
    the strength of Flash, seems to be the Achilles-heel, perhaps the long term solution
    here might be a property in the font that makes recommendations about how the
    font should be rendered, or perhaps CSS properties that define rendering style?</em>\"\r\n\r\nYeah,
    there's got to be a switch to flip somewhere along the line.\r\nSome people participating
    in this thread might be familiar with an alternative font-linking technique called
    Cuf&oacute;n. In Windows, Cuf&oacute;n renders headline-sized text beautifully.
    With Flash-like antialiasing and features. You can get gradients, shadows - very
    nice stuff. It relies on JavaScript alone.\r\nIn IE, Cuf&oacute;n uses VML (Vector
    Markup Language) and in Firefox and Safari is uses the Canvas tag.\r\nIt has drawbacks,
    problems with text-selection and such, but based solely on the way the text looks,
    it begs the question, \"Why can't I just specify that a block of text be rendered
    this way and have the browser take it from there?\" After all, if you can get
    smooth, good looking curves with VML, it's obvious the browser is capable of it.
    It can be done, period.\r\nA CSS property perhaps, like visibility:vector or somesuch.\r\n\r\n@davidberlow\r\n\r\n>You
    think you don\u2019t know what \u201CI\u2019m talking about\u201D and need a course
    in Berlow-speak\r\n\r\nThere is a big difference between my \"not knowing what
    you're talking about\" due to your inimitable writing style, and my thinking that
    you don't know what you're talking about.\r\nIn case anyone gets the wrong idea
    from your reply to me, \r\nit's the former, not the latter, and I assume that
    anyone who writes as uniquely as you do is quite aware of what he's doing and
    is fully prepared for some good-natured ribbing, which is all I intend. Plus,
    telling anybody \"you don't know what you're talking about\" is rude and counter-productive.
    If I have offended you, I apologize."
  created: '2009-08-31 04:31:27'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '@ Fink: Pretty clear. Lots of good answers. Re the rest of your post, well
    put.'
  created: '2009-08-31 05:35:29'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "SII>If you mean CFF, then the answer is Windows 7, and with a bit of luck
    in a service pack for older versions of Windows.\r\n\r\nI think we're done counting
    on the H.MS. Luck coming in on this. ;)\r\n\r\nSII>the long term solution here
    might be a property in the font that makes recommendations about how the font
    should be rendered\r\n\r\nNot enough, too late I'm afraid. Server-based UFO to
    TT-only OFF Lite Plus will work for this and all else though. Any puny human formats
    that need to be dumbed down from there will be easy enough. \r\n\r\nJohn>But when
    we\u2019re spending weeks producing VTT hint sources for fonts targeted at ClearType,
    whose results in ClearType are >95% identical to FontLab autohinting, and in WPF
    are almost identical to no hinting at all, how relevant are those reasons?\r\n\r\nGetting
    95% of FL hints for 40% of the needed TT instructions, for \u0131oo% of the users
    doesn't help, if you know what I mean. \r\nThere is a 'growing community' of full
    instruction needers.\r\n\r\nBut I didn't realize hinting was an issue, EOT's users
    rely entirely on ignoring most TrueType Instructions, don't they?\r\n\r\nAnd Richard,
    \ I do not consider it counter productive to tell people who don't know what they
    are talking about the truth. It's takes too much time otherwise. I didn't mean
    to insult you, but I'm not always talking to everyone. On the other hand, when
    'our problem' is a 'readable web', it seems counter-productive for you to tell
    people you don't know what I'm talking about. \r\n\r\nI'll try this though; the
    average text font cannot interoperate where such simple operations as sizing,
    scaling and rendering is happening in a non-standard way(s)... particularly when
    the text font style is being defined before the font's 'size'.  What's Typekit
    got to do with it?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-09-02 15:20:39'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@david berlow\r\n\"<em>But I didn\u2019t realize hinting was an issue, EOT\u2019s
    users rely entirely on ignoring most TrueType Instructions, don\u2019t they?</em>\"\r\n\r\nNo.
    Untrue. EOT is just a wrapper around a TT file. When the browser receives the
    font data, it's processed exactly the same as if it had come from a font installed
    in the operating system. No instructions lost, none added. No visual difference
    in rendering at all. \r\n\r\n@all\r\nIn an earlier post on this thread I mentioned
    Cuf&oacute;n text replacement. I've been revisiting it, playing around with sub-setting
    and trying to solve the problem of making the replaced text selectable, cross-browser.
    (With some good results,too.)\r\n<strong>Factoid:</strong> Cuf&oacute;n works
    quite well with CFF fonts. Unlike EOT, Cuf&oacute;n ignores, because it doesn't
    rely on, hinting instructions in TT files."
  created: '2009-09-03 15:07:00'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "The real screen dump of my test page in IE6/Win XP is <a href=\"http://www.paragraph.com.au/typekit/winxp-ie6.jpg\">here</a>.
    A .ttf rendering of Galette can be seen <a href=\"http://www.paragraph.com.au/typekit/galette-tk.html\">here</a>.
    I think that the column on the left is the new .ttf, the right column seems to
    have the old linespacing (still the same .otf).\r\n\r\nDavid: If you were serious
    about something lighter, Galette Light is there.\r\nJohn Hudson: Thanks for the
    TT autohinting list!\r\n\r\nDoes it render any better on Vista, please?"
  created: '2009-09-03 15:22:17'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "RIch >No. Untrue. \r\n\r\nWhat I said was joke Richard.\r\n\r\n> No visual
    difference in rendering at all.\r\n>If you were serious about something lighter,\r\n\r\nSee
    last paragraph of last post. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-04 11:19:40'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "[[http://typophile.com/user/108|Tiffany]] just posted this [[http://www.typotheque.com/news/typotheque_web_font_service_screencast_demo|demo
    of \"Typotheque\"]] on facebook.\r\n\r\nIs this the same sort of service as Fontkit?\r\n\r\nIf
    so, I think I understand even more. This is <em>very</em> interesting."
  created: '2009-09-07 19:06:09'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@dberlow\r\n\r\nIrony can be tough to spot sometimes. It's gotten me in a
    lot of trouble, too. I've tried to swear off it on the net.\r\nI did have trouble
    believing you didn't know an EOT was just a regular font file rendered the regular
    way but how about the newbie who might wander upon this thread and think otherwise?\r\nSo
    for that poor schm-ck, I played it straight.\r\n\r\n@christopher\r\n\r\nYes, Typotheque
    is offering the same kind of thing as Kernest and Typekit."
  created: '2009-09-08 22:32:35'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I did have trouble believing you didn\u2019t know an EOT was just a regular
    font file [a wrapper around a TT file].\r\n\r\nOh, \"regular' in what way? Forgetting
    that it's not 'embeddable', would it not be even more \"regular\" for EOT to be
    a wrapper around an OT file?\r\n\r\n>rendered the regular way ...\r\n\r\nOh? \"regular\"
    in what way? \r\n\r\n> Typotheque is [] the same kind of thing as Kernest and
    Typekit.\r\n\r\nOh? and what \"same kind of thing\" is that? I'm not hearing about
    you building cross platform/browser fonts and cross platform/browser sites, so
    I'm thinking to show you more. Or maybe not. \r\n\r\n> But when we\u2019re spending
    weeks producing VTT hint sources for fonts targeted at ClearType, whose results
    in ClearType are >95% identical to FontLab autohinting...\r\n\r\nWho's we? Proof
    please. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-09-09 12:21:21'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@davidberlow\r\n\r\n>Oh? \u201Cregular\u201D in what way? \r\n\r\nOK. Point
    taken.\r\n\r\n> But when we\u2019re spending weeks producing VTT hint sources
    for fonts targeted at ClearType, whose results in ClearType are >95% identical
    to FontLab autohinting...\r\n\r\nI, too, would like to see proof of this, please.\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2009-09-09 21:15:08'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Oh, call me on my hyperbole, why don't you, David. Fair enough.\r\n\r\nWe,
    in this case, is Ross, who actually does the hinting and, sensibly and non-hyperbolically,
    estimates:\r\n\r\n<em>If it were a sans serif, or perhaps a slab serif, you might
    approach 85-90%. Otherwise I would put it closer to 60-70%, overall (italics,
    or something like Gabriola more in the range of <50%). This accounts for simple
    glyphs which may need no further instructions added in VTT as well as those in
    which FL is simply unable to isolate features of anatomy that do require more
    instructions, or indeed fixing instructions that FL adds that make no sense, or
    that are redundant/conflicting etc.</em>\r\n\r\nThese is based on an FL -> VTT
    conversion workflow we developed a couple of years ago that allows us to either
    leverage FL auto stem hinting or manual PS hints in VTT, avoiding much of the
    drudge work of drawing spaghetti in VTT.\r\n\r\nThe larger point I was making
    was that, in subpixel rendering environments, the reliance on hinting is significantly
    reduced -- and in Apple's Quartz rendering is, literally, removed completely --,
    to such a degree that autohinting even on the FL PS->TT model can be effectively
    leveraged for a lot of purposes. And let me be completely clear about this: <strong><em>this
    is not always or even mostly a good thing, and I'd like to have more hinting control
    not less.</em></strong>\r\n\r\nBut given that people are talking about, apparently
    without humour, about using CFF OpenType fonts on the web, I think it is entirely
    valid to point out that half-decent autohinting of those same fonts converted
    to TTF is going to look better than the CFF versions, at least with today's system
    PS rasterisers. Will these fonts look as good as carefully designed and hinted
    native TTFs intended for reading on screen? No. But they will still look better
    on screen than CFF fonts."
  created: '2009-09-09 22:32:40'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "JH> ...reliance on hinting is significantly reduced \u2014 and in Apple\u2019s
    Quartz rendering is, literally, removed completely.\r\n\r\nThis is because Quartz
    <em>does</em> (ahem), match the color that the type would normally print very
    closely. This does not mean however, that the screen matches the 'readability'
    of that print. Something's going to happen to help that though, because Apple
    now thinks people do read, after all. \r\n\r\nJH>If it were a sans serif, or perhaps
    a slab serif, you might approach 85-90%. Otherwise I would put it closer to 60-70%,
    overall (italics, or something like Gabriola more in the range of <50%). \r\n\r\nAnd
    what if your library contained 50% fonts not close to 'normal' width <em>or</em>
    'normal' weight?  Sounds a lot like your library could use at least Electronic
    (PA) Recommendations, even if only 'you' can read them, they'll be informing to
    'sales' and to the better gasps on the planet;).\r\n\r\nJH>... <strong> this is
    not always or even mostly a good thing, and I\u2019d like to have more hinting
    control not less.</strong>\r\n\r\nMore? lol<em>Trust me, you'd like to have total
    hinting control and decide what parts of a 'complete interoperable standard' you
    need to apply for a particular specification, narrow or broad. \r\n\r\nDB>Oh?
    \u201Cregular\u201D in what way?\r\nRF>OK. Point taken.\r\n\r\nBut how deep? ;)\r\n\r\nTo
    bring us back to the topic, we hope this is not Typekit's job alone. ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-10 14:19:56'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@davidberlow\r\n\r\n>Apple now thinks people do read, after all.\r\n\r\nNow,
    <em>that</em> is a funny line. That one's going to morph into a blog headline,
    and soon. Thanks.\r\n\r\n@jh and dberlow\r\n\r\nAs long as we're talking about
    such things...\r\nWhat's up with LED backlit screens? Rendering on my iPhone and
    my HP Touchsmart tablet is very different from what I get on my \"normal\" (don't
    start, David) LCD screens. A crisper, more print-like result. But I haven't been
    able to find much info about the difference in the technologies.\r\nAny info on
    that? Does LED in any way cut down on the need to hint?\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-10 17:10:34'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "</em> sorry about the italic horde.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-09-11 13:40:22'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">What\u2019s up with [...] iPhone and my HP Touchsmart tablet [...] I get
    \ [...]. A crisper, more print-like result. [...] Does LED in any way cut down
    on the need to hint?\r\n\r\nAs a bipod, I have two iPhones, so I know how that
    works. I don't have a HP Touchsmart tablet, but I do have two 'wireless' HP printers
    for which I'm looking for wires, if you have any loose. What's Touchsmart's resolution?
    Dots per inch? Could be the Resolution Fairy... S/he's 'every way' to cut down
    on the need-to-hint/ability-to-design for readability.\r\n\r\n<em>Cheers!\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-11 13:50:48'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: </em>oops
  created: '2009-09-11 13:52:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>Trust me, you\u2019d like to have total hinting control and decide
    what parts of a \u2019complete interoperable standard\u2019 you need to apply
    for a particular specification, narrow or broad.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, sometimes I'd
    like to have total hinting control. Other times I look at the same typeface printed
    on two different paper stocks, or from two different laser printers claiming the
    same resolution, and think that the lack of control that we face in different
    screen rendering technologies isn't anything new. Then I go back to this\r\n\r\nhttp://www.tiro.com/John/Baskerville-a.jpg\r\n\r\n(all
    taken from a single page) and ask myself whether there is any such thing as a
    typeface except as a source of limited but uncontrolled variation."
  created: '2009-09-11 20:11:29'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "><a href=\"http://www.tiro.com/John/Baskerville-a.jpg\">http://www.tiro.com/John/Baskerville-a.jpg</a>\r\n\r\nMyself,
    I prefer composing in the key of A Flat &#9835;&#9834;&#9835;"
  created: '2009-09-12 02:25:26'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "JH>Yes, sometimes I\u2019d like to have total hinting control. Other times
    I look at the same typeface printed... [] and think that the lack of control that
    we face in different screen rendering technologies isn\u2019t anything new.\r\n\r\nWell,
    it is something new, if not by percentage of error per feature, then certainly
    you can imagine a parallel situation in Baskerville's world, where the clients
    of his type were somehow enabled to reheat type from a letter to whole pages,
    and let 'whatever' loose on his types, (except perhaps pure ink of any color,
    and especially not Black)... while the \"Baskerville\" label remained prominently
    displayable, and unchanged for all to see?\r\n\r\nAs many unfounders confirmed
    to my ears in <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/search/?q=atypi+mexico\"> Mexico
    </a>, there is a 'rendering problem\" on the web as a result of there being a
    difference between hot metal's inadvertent glyph variation spectrum, and the web's,
    (ahem) glyph variation spectrum at the bottom of the resolution spectrum. \r\n\r\nImagine
    all of our surprise, to maintain thread integrity, including of course Typekit,;)\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n
    \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-01 17:54:52'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'Open the typekit.com page in Safari. [ <em>Step-by-step instructions for
    extracting a web font removed by Moderators.</em> ] Open it in Fontlab, and you
    will see the entire font, all features, etc. etc. Who knew Erik was such a philanthropist? '
  created: '2010-03-30 23:44:04'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Bill, you are a modern day Daniel Will-Harris :-) \r\n"
  created: '2010-03-30 23:56:49'
- author:
    name: steve.mackley
    picture: 116356
  body: "Mr. Troop,\r\n\r\n    Open the typekit.com page in Safari...\r\n\r\nThat
    was disturbingly easy."
  created: '2010-04-01 14:11:06'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite>and you will see the entire font</cite>\r\n\r\n\u2026\_except that
    the character set won\u2019t be complete.\r\nYes, of course you can get the other
    bits aswell, and reassemble them. But noone ever claimed different. No DRM, just
    a technical obstacle. \r\nAfter you have 1) browsed your cache/activity window,
    2) downloaded some cryptic files, 3) renamed them and 4) tinkered with them in
    FontLab, you should have realized you\u2019re doing something illicit by then.\r\n\r\nYou
    still can't download a license for free \u2013 and that\u2019s what you actually
    need."
  created: '2010-04-01 14:36:53'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> Who knew Erik was such a philanthropist?</cite>\r\n\r\nSome are born
    philanthropic, some achieve philanthropy, and some have philanthropy thrust upon
    them. Such is the nature of Web Fonts."
  created: '2010-04-01 14:42:07'
- author:
    name: bryanmason
    picture: 117895
  body: "Last July, we wrote up what we do to protect fonts here:\r\nhttp://blog.typekit.com/2009/07/21/serving-and-protecting-fonts-on-the-web/\r\n\r\nWe
    developed this approach in partnership with our foundry partners and have been
    experimenting with how many glyphs need to be removed from a font in order to
    make it not actually useful. There is some buggy browser behavior when large portions
    of the glyphs are removed, so we're trying to find a balance.\r\n\r\nCurrently
    we pull out a small number of characters\_(we try to keep is small to maintain
    kerning pairs) -- but if we don't think this is enough to make a font unusable,
    then we'll find a better way.\r\n\r\nSo - how many charters (and which) should
    we pull out of the font (and move to a secondary font) to help protect it, in
    your opinion?"
  created: '2010-04-01 17:41:50'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Have you looked at characters that don't kern? Currency symbols, numerals,
    some punctuation? Pulling these would make the base font pretty un-useful.
  created: '2010-04-01 17:54:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Straight-sided uppercase letters tend not to need kerning, so I would remove
    H and I and M and respective diacritics to a separate font. [Not N, because that
    may reasonably have kerning on the right side.]
  created: '2010-04-01 18:11:10'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "After some internal discussion among the Typophile site owners and admins
    it was decided to remove the explicit instructions that Bill Troop posted above.\r\n\r\nThis
    information may well be available elsewhere, and it is probably pretty easily
    figure-outable from the information given by TypeKit themselves. \r\n\r\nBut in
    the same way that Typophile does not abide links to pirate sites and would not
    condone posting instructions for extracting fonts from other media, it was decided
    that having this specific step-by-step recipe recorded here was not appropriate.\r\n\r\nThe
    *fact* of how easy it may be is a worthwhile and important discussion topic. The
    specifics of how to do it, however, are not necessary for this conversation to
    continue."
  created: '2010-04-01 20:08:13'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">it was decided to remove the explicit instructions that Bill Troop posted
    above.\r\n\r\nI'm perfectly comfortable with that, Kent. I only wanted to establish
    how easy it was, and the subsequent comments adequately substantiate that.\r\n\r\n>Straight-sided
    uppercase letters tend not to need kerning\r\n\r\nNot if you're Matthew Carter,
    John. Fifteen years I've been trying to teach you fitting, and this is what I
    see. Mercy! Will you <em>never</em> learn?\r\n\r\n>Have you looked at characters
    that don't kern? Currency symbols, numerals, some punctuation? Pulling these would
    make the base font pretty un-useful.\r\n\r\nYou mean like Georgia, Si? Funnily
    enough, this very useful font, maybe the best Microsoft ever came out with, doesn't
    have any kerning at all.\r\n\r\n>You still can't download a license for free \u2013
    and that\u2019s what you actually need.\r\n\r\nI don't know about you, Florian,
    but I don't want either the font <em>or</em> the license.\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-02 19:24:17'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">You mean like Georgia, Si? \r\n\r\nNow you mention it, perhaps Typekit should
    strip the kerning. FF only started supporting kerning last year, and Apple says
    no kerning in Safari (Webkit) for performance reasons. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si "
  created: '2010-04-02 19:57:14'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">perhaps Typekit should strip the kerning\r\n\r\nWell, Si, you can say that
    easily, because you have the largest number of good fonts that don't need kerning.
    Others are not so fortunate."
  created: '2010-04-02 20:21:00'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Actually I'm totally in favor of browsers fully supporting kerning moving
    forward - and in my opinion now is the time to do it as FF and IE move to DWrite
    (where the spacing will change anyway)
  created: '2010-04-02 21:22:02'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I only wanted to establish how easy it was...\r\n\r\nFor yourself, I guess
    you mean. Are you quite finished? ;)\r\n\r\n>... now is the time to do it [fully
    supporting kerning moving forward] as FF and IE move to DWrite (where the spacing
    will change anyway)\r\n\r\nIs kerning, all kerning, or only on larger sizes, where
    it's truly nicer, and less text to so arduously examine? How much of a performance
    issue could it be to kern everything on a web page greater than 23.99 point?\r\n\r\nWe'll
    find out, in the next episode of \"Blame It On the Foundries: The Curse of Kerning!\"\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-04-02 22:20:02'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">Cheers!\r\n\r\nThud"
  created: '2010-04-03 00:04:24'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@kent and all in favor of removing billtroops instructions:\r\n\r\n>The specifics
    of how to do it, however, are not necessary for this conversation to continue.\r\nThis
    reliance on trade secrecy and specialized knowledge will not work for you going
    forward. This culture of \"Shhh... let's not talk about it, let's not give anybody
    any ideas\" is exactly what's screwing you up today and will screw you up even
    worse down the road.\r\n(By \"you\" I don't mean you alone, Kent, I mean the collective
    \"you\" of the type producing community.)\r\nIf this isn't a case of \"lying to
    yourself\", I don't know what is. Go ahead, stick your head in the sand and see
    where it gets you.\r\nThe specifics are exactly what should be discussed. (I saved
    the instructions when billtroop first posted, so don't think I'm bitching because
    I'm in the dark. Besides, by now every college kid in America probably knows how
    to do it.)\r\nThe more interesting discussion would be to follow the procedure
    posted by billtroop and see what it gets you and where that leaves you. Put yourself
    in the shoes of the person doing it. You've got the font, now what?\r\n<em>That</em>
    kind of analysis might get you somewhere.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://readableweb.com\">Rich</a>"
  created: '2010-04-03 13:39:07'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Is kerning, all kerning, or only on larger sizes, where it's truly nicer,
    and less text to so arduously examine? How much of a performance issue could it
    be to kern everything on a web page greater than 23.99 point?\r\n\r\nIf I were
    in charge I'd apply kerning across all sizes. As I'm not in charge this will likely
    have to wait until CSS lets page designers turn it on or off for a given element."
  created: '2010-04-03 13:43:55'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "<cite>The specifics are exactly what should be discussed. (I saved the instructions
    when billtroop first posted, so don't think I'm bitching because I'm in the dark.
    Besides, by now every college kid in America probably knows how to do it.)\r\nThe
    more interesting discussion would be to follow the procedure posted by billtroop
    and see what it gets you and where that leaves you. Put yourself in the shoes
    of the person doing it. You've got the font, now what?\r\nThat kind of analysis
    might get you somewhere.\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\n@Richard Fink exactly, if your credit
    card numbers were posted online and instructions with your expiration date and
    code on back, you should discuss it...and watch where you leave your credit card
    lying around, but also remove the postings and change your card."
  created: '2010-04-03 14:07:48'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Rich [Fink] \u2014 You know I respect your opinion, even though I don\u2019t
    always agree. I don\u2019t think this is quite the same as \u201CShhh... let's
    not talk about it, let's not give anybody any ideas.\u201D\r\n\r\nAs I said, I
    think it is worth talking about. In general, and even in general specifics. Which
    is why I, personally, don\u2019t have a problem with Florian\u2019s thorough summation
    of the general procedure.\r\n\r\nThe detailed, specific click-this\u2013click-that
    instructions, however, were a little too far over the line for the Typophile folks
    (which is a distinctly different group from the type-producing community, please
    realize). \r\n\r\nNor were they/we pressured or even contacted by any font producers.
    (Although, one person did point out to some of us privately that it would seem
    a bit hypocritical for Typophile to remove pirate links but let this stand.)\r\n\r\nAs
    I said, there was some debate among admins. Jared, Typophile\u2019s founder, made
    the final call, but was busy and asked me to make the edit and provide the explanation.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-03 14:57:32'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Kent, as I've said before, I'm absolutely comfortable with the decision Typophile
    made, which I think is very grown up. Richard F, let's take what you said here\r\n\r\n>The
    more interesting discussion would be to follow the procedure posted by billtroop
    and see what it gets you and where that leaves you. Put yourself in the shoes
    of the person doing it. You've got the font, now what?\r\nThat kind of analysis
    might get you somewhere.<\r\n\r\na little further.\r\n\r\nWhere does it get you?
    Nowhere, as far as I can see. Why should any of us care about this kind of petty
    downloading? For all I know, we ought to encourage downloaders, on the grounds
    that 1 in 100 might become an actual paying customer one day. Fonts are a small
    business, and we only have to sell a few hundred units to be accounted hugely
    successful. Sales in the thousands are considered monumental by the standards
    of this industry. Compare that with the hysteria Hollywood is showing over the
    entire country of Spain, according to the LA Times a few days ago. Hollywood wants
    to withdraw sales of DVDs in Spain because there is too much downloading. What
    will this accomplish? There will be just as much downloading as before, but instead
    of few retail sales, there will be none. Exactly how does that help?\r\n\r\nI
    think, I hope, I pray, that most graphic designers (professional font users) recognize
    that intellectual property costs money, and that they should pay for the fonts
    they have, especially if they actually use them professionally. \r\n\r\nAgainst
    this we have a whole culture -- whether you define it as all under-30s, or the
    entire country of Spain, or South Korea - - whatever - - that doesn't see any
    intellectual property as having financial value. Where does that put us as content
    creators? Well, we are content creators of <em>reproducible materials</em>. What
    we know today is that reproducible content is considered valueless. I can't remember
    if Walter Benjamin predicted this or not in his famous essay, from decades ago,
    on this very subject. Probably not, because customer copying was still a few decades
    away.\r\n\r\nContrast with the shocking countertrend, where non-reproducible art
    -- original paintings and sculpture -- is attracting staggering sums that would
    have been inconceivable even a decade ago. Did you see what was paid for a not
    particularly good Giacometti the other day? Over $100 million.\r\n\r\nIf an OK
    Giacometti is worth 100 million (Otto Preminger used them as classy garden gnomes
    in his New York townhouse), what is a Rembrandt worth? \r\n\r\nMaybe what we should
    really ask ourselves is, 'Why are we in the business of producing easily reproducible
    objects? Is this what we do with our lives? Is this a legacy we want to leave?
    Are we willing to pay the price?'\r\n\r\nI just don't think, as an artist/craftsman,
    you can afford to be that possessive about reproducible art/craft. If that's the
    way you feel, it's time to get into non-reproducibles."
  created: '2010-04-03 18:15:00'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">This culture of \"Shhh... let's not talk about it, let's not give anybody
    any ideas\" is exactly what's screwing you up today and will screw you up even
    worse down the road.\r\n\r\nRichard, this makes me wonder what happens when someone
    publishes proof that a security hole exists in some important piece of software.
    The solution is always proprietary, obviously, but what do you gain by hiding
    the method of attack? One could argue that the method of attack should be as widely
    disseminated as possible so that there is maximum awareness of the need to plug
    the hole. \r\n\r\nBut why isn't anybody talking about making fonts more intelligent?
    Why can't a font know where it is, what it's being used for, who is using it,
    who owns it, etc. etc. If, that is, anybody cares at that level? Not that I'm
    advocating that level of security control. If you spend some time in a library
    looking at old computer magazines, you'll see that the consistent experience of
    the personal computer industry, from the early 1980s to the present, is that copy
    protection alienates, rather than attracts, customers. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-03 20:55:20'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "BT>But why isn't anybody talking about making fonts more intelligent? \r\n\r\nIf
    you mean, why isn't the W3C talking about fonts being more intelligent. The answer
    to that is they don't define font formats. \r\n\r\nIf you mean, why are not the
    guardians of OpenType's Specification talking about fonts being more intelligent,
    the answer is that they don't define font formats, (it as an ISO issue). \r\n\r\nIf
    you mean, why isn't ISO talking about fonts being more intelligent, they asked
    for that, they'll probably realize by 2015 it is not what they got, (unless putting
    63,342 delta or shift instructions into a font for Windows is considered intelligent).
    \r\n\r\nIf you mean, why are not many makers of type talking about fonts being
    more intelligent, it already is (\"you want it to do 'what' now?\")\r\n\r\nIf
    you mean, why are not the makers of intelligent type talking about fonts being
    more intelligent, \"why bother talking?\" \r\n\r\nIf you meant none of those anybodies,
    then let me know. \r\n\r\nRF>This reliance on trade secrecy and specialized knowledge
    will not work for you going forward. \r\nI will bet you are wrong.\r\n\r\n>This
    culture of \"Shhh... let's not talk about it, let's not give anybody any ideas\"\r\nThere
    are good ideas and there are bad ideas. I've always felt discussing bad ideas
    is a bad idea. \r\n\r\n>is exactly what's screwing you up today and will screw
    you up even worse down the road.\r\nAgreed. What would you tell you, if you were
    me? \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-03 23:28:51'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "@Bill: <cite>Kent, as I've said before, I'm absolutely comfortable with the
    decision Typophile made</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, I did take note of that, and I appreciate
    you saying so, Bill. "
  created: '2010-04-04 00:20:31'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "David, which in this list constitutes Adobe?\r\n\r\nThe company about which
    Steve Jobs recently said,\r\n\r\n'They have all this potential to do interesting
    things but they just refuse to do it.'\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-05 02:03:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: ".\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-05 02:47:41'
- author:
    name: jdaggett
  body: "@si\r\n<em>If I were in charge I'd apply kerning across all sizes. As I'm
    not in\r\ncharge this will likely have to wait until CSS lets page designers\r\nturn
    it on or off for a given element.</em>\r\n\r\nTo some degree you are in charge,
    your comments to the www-style mailing list would certainly be influential.\r\n\r\nThe
    current editor's draft of the CSS3 Fonts spec makes font kerning\r\non by default,
    with an option to turn it off explicitly:\r\n\r\n  http://dev.w3.org/csswg/css3-fonts/#font-kerning-prop\r\n\r\nI
    would agree with Si, I think it's simpler for kerning to be on by\r\ndefault but
    I'd be interested in hearing if some folks (dberlow?)\r\nbelieve the default behavior
    should be linked to font size.\r\n\r\nIn the past, the arguments around kerning
    speed were more structural, to get\r\nkerning a slower-path general text rendering
    API was required.  On\r\nWindows, general GDI rendering is much faster than using
    Uniscribe and\r\non the Mac, CoreGraphics text API's are much faster than ATSUI.
    With\r\nmore modern API's like DirectWrite (Windows) and CoreText (Mac) this\r\nis
    no longer completely valid, although I'm sure there will always be\r\na way to
    render text \"fast but incorrectly\" on any platform. ;)\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-05 05:31:02'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Thanks John,\r\n\r\nI'll let the IE folks know that I support the on-by-default
    approach. If all browsers implement it then that makes for a level playing field
    with respect to perf.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si "
  created: '2010-04-05 05:35:59'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">I would agree with Si, I think it's simpler for kerning to be on by\r\ndefault
    but I'd be interested in hearing if some folks (dberlow?)\r\nbelieve the default
    behavior should be linked to font size.\r\n\r\nYou would have compulsory kerning
    for 6 pt text on a 100 dpi display? 150 dpi at best? 200 dpi at very very best?
    \r\n\r\nHave you done any of the math? Have you considered what meaning any of
    your kerning units would have under these conditions? Discussing how the text
    engine works needs to connect to the end result: the permissible parameters for
    the arrangement of pixels on the display.\r\n\r\nHave you thought about why and
    when to kern and under what circumstances, even with ideal resolution, it might
    conceivably be important? Or why sophisticated people like John Hudson don't know
    why Matthew Carter kerns straight-sided caps? \r\n\r\nCould we have some real
    life practical rendering examples? \r\n\r\nExactly.\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-05 14:04:02'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Could we have some real life practical rendering examples?\r\nI agree with
    your general vector. Such a thing as real life practical rendering examples barely
    exist un-kerned...\r\n\r\nI think kerning is like many typographic issues making
    the transition to the web, having positive effect for some web users and either
    neutral or negative effect for others. \r\n\r\nThe Electronic Permissions and
    Recommendations table contains my recommendations for dealing with the issue of
    kerning from the foundry point of view, speaking to the web developer, during
    and after this transition. \r\n\r\nWhat is recommended there is the ability of
    the font to contain information that can tell <em>something/one</em> the difference
    between kerning pairs that will likely cause negative effects from kerning pairs
    that are likely to help. This is a start, but the iPad may already need it. ;)\r\n\r\nHaving
    only the choice of specifying \"on\" or \"off\" by default, I would most certainly
    recommend it being off.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-05 14:47:51'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I think the problem with linking to text size is that it's pretty meaningless
    on the web - OS's and displays are not always truthful about the physical ppi
    of the displays they're connected too and they may be connected to multiple displays.
    There's also the issue of zoom - should a page reflow when you zoom to the point
    that the type is larger than 6pt? Or should 6pt specified text never kern even
    under zoom?\r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2010-04-05 14:55:29'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">Or should 6pt specified text never kern even under zoom?\r\n\r\nYes, it
    should never kern. (On the grounds that a zoomed object should always reveal as
    accurately as possible the underlying object. Zooming should not change its characteristics,
    only its visibility or legibility or comprehensibility.)\r\n\r\nThat the question
    arises signifies the need to recalibrate the system's philosophy. Or maybe it
    suggests the need to place a philosophy into a system that may not have one?\r\n\r\nTrying
    to accomplish typesetting on a system with unknown (and unknowable) output parameters
    makes exactly what kind of sense? \r\n\r\nAt that point, surely, it's better to
    concentrate on solving basic communication problems?\r\n\r\nIn this case, what
    we know of the unknowable is that the greatest number of target display systems
    is capable of well under 150 dpi, and that this is not adequate to sustain kerning
    as it is understood by most type designers. It therefore seems to me that there
    is more reward from designing fonts that do not require kerning than from designing
    fonts that may kern desirably only 5% of the times they are displayed -- at best,
    and may kern undesirably in over 70% of cases. The designer should be focusing
    on realistically designing for realistic systems.\r\n\r\nWho needs the processor
    overhead and the architectural headaches of something the vast majority of users
    need never be aware of?\r\n\r\nSo let's start with some simple goal, like 'using
    technology realistically to accomplish the greatest good for the greatest number
    of people' ? ? "
  created: '2010-04-05 23:42:56'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Or should 6pt specified text never kern even under zoom?\r\n\r\nProbably
    not possible on the web. \r\n\r\nMost browsers are defaulted to show no smaller
    than 9 or 10, and web developers cooperate. \r\n\r\nAnd, I'm not thinking of text
    and headline being defined by ppm.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-05 23:44:39'
- author:
    name: jdaggett
  body: "@billtroop\r\n<em>Have you done any of the math? Have you considered what
    meaning\r\nany of your kerning units would have under these conditions?\r\nDiscussing
    how the text engine works needs to connect to the end\r\nresult: the permissible
    parameters for the arrangement of pixels on\r\nthe display.</em>\r\n\r\nIs your
    point that it's simply a waste of processing time or that at\r\nsome threshold
    kerning data is no longer optimal/appropriate?\r\n\r\n@dberlow\r\n<em>What is
    recommended there is the ability of the font to contain\r\ninformation that can
    tell something/one the difference between kerning\r\npairs that will likely cause
    negative effects from kerning pairs that\r\nare likely to help.</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    only related field I see in the [[http://www.eeulaa.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=49:recommendations-data-fields&catid=27&Itemid=59|EPAR
    table]] is the 'unkern' field.\r\nBut that field is a boolean, why not just include/omit
    kerning data?  Were\r\nthere other conditions that affect how/when this data is
    used?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-06 09:48:58'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">The only related field I see in the EPAR table is the 'unkern' field.\r\n\r\nSorry,
    I proposed a slightly more complex version but then ousted it myself. The only
    thing I did add as a result of this, was recommended word-length. The font, it's
    kerning pairs and the html that employs the font, contain all the data required
    to make decisions as you suggest in your question to Bill. \r\n\r\nSimon is probably
    correct in some ways \u2014 in an environment where everything looks bigger, blurry
    and color shifted, (and you are not snorkeling), what damage could unbridled kerning
    do? \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-06 14:17:49'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@jdaggett, billtroop, sii, and all:\r\n\r\n>some threshold kerning data is
    no longer optimal/appropriate\r\n\r\nMy understanding from Robert O'Callahan at
    Mozilla is that Firefox only kerns above 20px. I had wanted to ask what the reason
    was for that, but got sidetracked.\r\nWhat about the ability for the author to
    set a threshold? I don't know if that's doable or desirable - just tossing it
    out.\r\n\r\nI agree that kerning should be enabled by default.\r\n\r\n>why not
    just include/omit kerning data?\r\n\r\nIndeed, it's always controllable at the
    level of the font.\r\nWhat I'd like to know - and don't - (David? Anybody?) -
    is whether <em>the same kerning that works for print works for screen.</em>\r\nA
    perspective: Today, we ask fonts to do double-duty onscreen and in print. In an
    era of instantly downloadable fonts, I do not believe that will continue to be
    the case.\r\nFor many kinds of information - print stylesheets - with the document
    formatted not only for screen but specifically for print, font and all, will become
    much more commonplace.\r\n(And, BTW, appropriate print font(s) for use within
    print stylesheets or HTML-to-PDF conversion, I would gladly pay a premium for.
    I know that, for some, the idea of browsers being the main desktop publishing
    apps of the future sounds radical, even disturbing - and I understand completely.
    I shudder somewhat, too. But we're only a few steps away from it. And efficiency
    will demand it. It's only a matter of time.)\r\n\r\nTherefore, I second John Daggett's
    suggestion that all informed and influential voices be heard. All opinions are
    welcome and needed in getting this right. Abrasion is a good and necessary thing.
    From the oyster comes the pearl.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://readableweb.com\">Rich</a>\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-06 16:20:15'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I think the desirable behavior for screen is not turning off kerning at small
    sizes, but adjusting tracking at those sizes. The same *spacing* that works for
    print isn't so great for screen, and vice versa... unless the typeface was designed
    for small sizes in print. Basically at the \"same\" size on screen, ideal tracking
    is looser.\r\n\r\nVerdana is a great example. Works great in print with the default
    spacing... at something like six to eight point. Ikea uses Verdana at larger sizes,
    but I'm pretty sure they have adjusted the tracking at display sizes in particular.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    as the desirability of looser tracking is font-specific, and some typefaces already
    have it right for screen, I expect this does not belong in the realm of browser
    default behaviors, but instead in the realm of intelligent web design decisions,
    when coupled with being reasonably sure what font will be displayed by most browsers
    (that is, assuming @font-face support, or using \"web-safe\" fonts).\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT\r\n\r\n(Edit
    - clarified right after I posted)"
  created: '2010-04-06 16:40:23'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "http://www.eyemagazine.com/opinion.php?id=175&oid=518\r\n\r\nA <strong>great</strong>
    article about type on the web. There is a good description of Typekit in there."
  created: '2010-04-06 19:06:07'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Richard Fink: <cite>My understanding from Robert O'Callahan at Mozilla is
    that Firefox only kerns above 20px. [...] What about the ability for the author
    to set a threshold?</cite>\r\n<cite>What I'd like to know - and don't - (David?
    Anybody?) - is whether the same kerning that works for print works for screen.</cite>\r\n\r\nTypefaces
    are designed by type designers. Letter-to-letter distances are part of the typeface's
    design and in current font technology are implemented by way of <em>both</em>
    sidebearings <em>and</em> kerning <em>in combination</em>. You cannot take one
    or the other away at will without damaging the typeface.\r\nAnd it is neither
    on designers nor no applications to \"discuss\" or \"decide\" when or when not
    to use one or the other or both.\r\n\r\n<cite>Therefore, I second John Daggett's
    suggestion that all informed and influential voices be heard. All opinions are
    welcome and needed in getting this right.</cite>\r\n\r\n\"Second\"? \"Hear voices\"?
    \"Opinions\"? Huh?\r\nBut thanks for asking."
  created: '2010-04-06 19:55:48'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "RF>Anybody?\r\n\r\nThe question is the same for kerning and contours. The
    answer is too: I can't tell you an answer.\r\n\r\nKL> ...current font technology
    are implemented by way of both sidebearings and kerning in combination. \r\n>You
    cannot take one or the other away at will without damaging the typeface.\r\n\r\nI
    beg to slightly differ. If you first beat the fonts with low resolution fraction
    bars until the letters are barely recognizable without the file name, you can
    take away the kerning without appearing to damage the already severely damaged
    typeface.\r\n\r\n>All opinions are welcome and needed in getting this right.\r\nI
    think the definition of getting it right should include:\r\nleaving it up to the
    web designer to turn on, \r\nleaving it up the the web user to turn off,\r\nleaving
    it up to the founder to optimize for print, screen or both\r\nleaving the browsers
    out of it (via instantaneous universal compliance), \r\nas soon as possible.;)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-04-06 21:10:43'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>If you first beat the fonts with low resolution fraction bars until
    the letters are barely recognizable without the file name, you can take away the
    kerning without appearing to damage the already severely damaged typeface.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    agree as regards the effect. I'd only change the order. First, there is technology-independent
    design, including ideal placement of letters (expressed as advance width and kerning),
    ideal placement of marks, etc. Then, there is technology-specific adjustments
    overriding the former ideal design.\r\nThis is only my opinion, obviously, but
    I feel cheated if I design a typeface, turn it into a font, and then see apps
    ignoring whatever data they consider unnecessary, like kerning or other OT layout
    behavior."
  created: '2010-04-06 23:31:32'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">What I'd like to know - and don't - (David? Anybody?) - is whether the same
    kerning that works for print works for screen.\r\n\r\nRich, instead of asking
    yourself if the same kerning <em>does</em> work for print and screen, why don't
    you ask yourself if the same kerning <em>could</em> work for print and screen.
    (Short answer: it doesn't; it can't.) Consider some common characters and widths
    in a print font. Look at some moderate kerning pairs. Now consider how that font
    is rasterized on a 100 dpi screen. By using a gigantic amount of technology, painfully
    built up over the last thirty years, we can just about barely get it to rasterize
    recognizably on screen. Now you want us to move its position on screen by a minute
    amount. But the pixel width of the character is only, say, 12. So how are you
    going to get the character to move by 6%, say? \r\n\r\nLet's look at Windows Times
    New Roman, and the kerning pair LT. The specified kern is -188. The width of T
    is 1251, so you want this character to be moved left by 188 units (about 15% of
    its width) in a font which was designed to a grid of 2048. But as it is being
    rasterized onscreen, its effective grid is, say, 17, if we're very lucky. \r\n\r\nEvidently,
    you are assuming that the screen has infinite resolution. But it doesn't! \r\n\r\nNow
    do you see why your question doesn't make sense? \r\n\r\nSomeone at Mozilla told
    you something kerns. Did they tell you if it kerns accurately? What is the quality
    of the kern they are talking about? Did they tell you how accurately the browser
    will be able to micro-move the kerned glyph? \r\n\r\nThomas, if the system resolution
    is so coarse that accurate kerning isn't possible, then how is acceptable tracking
    possible? You give the example of Verdana having the right fitting for screen
    use, but needing to be tightened up for advertising text. This will work, because
    the advertising/print designer has almost infinite control. But if you take it
    the opposite way, trying to get a tightly spaced display font to display well
    on the web at 8 points, it doesn't work so nicely. There is almost zero control.\r\n\r\nThere
    can be no equivalence between web and print fonts until screen resolution approaches
    print. They are different systems with different demands. Unless of course you'd
    like to see CT style rendering of type in the next print book you read? Hey, with
    color laser why not? "
  created: '2010-04-07 00:05:04'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">see apps ignoring whatever data they consider unnecessary, like kerning
    or other OT layout behavior.\r\n\r\nYes? And what about the rasterizer ignoring
    your data? And the paper itself ignoring your data? All of which happens in real
    life printing . . . Would you also like to control the editorial content, the
    spelling, the politics, the grammar? In that case, shouldn't you be a publisher
    rather than a designer? "
  created: '2010-04-07 00:09:48'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'Finally, why make the assumption that a designer has kerned a font desirably?
    At Random House, in the 1990s, experienced, absolutely top-notch book designers
    would often routinely turn off kerning when using fonts like Minion because the
    kerning caused more problems than it cured. You simply cannot assume that kerning
    is correct or desirable for a given display/printing system/job merely because
    it is present. Furthermore, if, as Thomas suggests, tracking should be different
    for different sizes/resolutions, which is just a shorthand way of saying that
    each font should be individually designed for precisely the display parameters
    under which it will be used (which is really the one unavoidable truth-bogeyman
    sardonically listening in on all these discussions), then the same is true for
    kerning: as tracking changes (or as the underlying system changes, necessitating
    tracking changes), then so, too, do the kerning requirements of that particular
    situation.'
  created: '2010-04-07 00:17:23'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "k.l. -- <cite>see apps ignoring whatever data they consider unnecessary,
    like kerning or other OT layout behavior.</cite>\r\nb.t. -- <cite>Yes? And what
    about the rasterizer ignoring your data? And the paper itself ignoring your data?
    All of which happens in real life printing ... Would you also like to control
    the editorial content, the spelling, the politics, the grammar? In that case,
    shouldn't you be a publisher rather than a designer?</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's ridiculous.\r\n\r\nA
    (well made) font contains the data needed to produce the anticipated text. Text
    is more than rowing shapes next to each other. And data required for producing
    text is more than a collection of shapes. This may get more obvious as you look
    at \"non-Latin\" script fonts, in particular those using layout technology other
    than OpenType's. In so far I do not see the relevance of your anecdote:\r\n\r\n<cite>Finally,
    why make the assumption that a designer has kerned a font desirably? At Random
    House, in the 1990s, [...]</cite>\r\n\r\nIf kerning is not right, then obviously
    the font is not right. And if you question a font's quality, why use it?"
  created: '2010-04-07 13:11:31'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: "here is an example of DirectWrite, which uses subpixel positioned spacing.
    This allows for better letterspacing onscreen including Kerning, which I think
    can work on screen pretty well for most cases. The example is Cambria 12 point.
    \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Kerningscreen_4870.png]"
  created: '2010-04-07 16:12:32'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "A real life example is worth more than a ream of posturing. Thank you, Mike.\r\n\r\nTwo
    immediate problems are visible at once.\r\n\r\nNot one, not two, but <em>many</em>
    of the characters are inferior in the kerned version. Leaping to sight, in just
    the word Tonights, n, i, g, h, t, are markedly inferior in the kerned version.
    After that, the majority of cap stems lose most of their blackness in the kerned
    version. This is not a good result. The price of subpixel kerning can never by
    its very nature be less than substantial degradation.\r\n\r\nWhat do we gain?
    We gain some very coarse kerning. Because of the minuteness of the pixel grid,
    even with the theoretical 3x advantage you gain from subpixel manipulation, it
    seems apparent that you are kerning (are you?) to units whose minima are too large.
    AVA is more natural unkerned, and while a slight correction of TA would be desirable,
    the correction here is too much. Similarly, for WAV, AV again works surprisingly
    well unkerned, and though a tiny amount of negative kerning would be desirable
    for WA, the correction here is too strong.\r\n\r\nI'd call this a good demonstration
    of what can be done, now, today. However, it's not something I'd want to see implemented
    -- yet -- because the tradeoffs seem too great. Keeping in mind, too, that the
    illustration is a best case scenario because the type color is black and quality
    loss is much greater when it is another color. (Add a transparency effect and
    you'd be taxing the system way beyond its limits.) Does anyone have any idea when
    true 300 dpi screens might be possible? 300 dpi plus subpixel control would be
    the point where you might think seriously about general implementation. Is it
    three years away? In which case we need to think about it. Or is it ten years
    away? In which case not many of us need to think about it.\r\n\r\n>If kerning
    is not right, then obviously the font is not right. \r\n\r\nI love the innocent
    simplicity of this view. "
  created: '2010-04-07 18:28:14'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Hey Mike  that looks pretty interesting! Is the kerning rounding down though?
    It looks like it might be over-kerned when compared to unkernable pairs like LA
    or TW...\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-04-08 12:42:27'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@thomas phinney\r\n<em>I think the desirable behavior for screen is not turning
    off kerning at small sizes, but adjusting tracking at those sizes.</em>\r\n\r\nA
    lot of interesting questions flying around.\r\nCSS has a property that's supposed
    to offer control of tracking: letter-spacing.\r\nAt the pixel level, it most definitely
    does. Never tried it in a print stylesheet.\r\nWhat does it do at the sub-pixel
    level? Don't know yet.\r\n\r\nI can tell you this: I've done a lot of experimenting
    with the word-spacing property, using em units. You can get a very consistent
    cross-browser result - on Windows, at least. However, the way each browser calculates
    and interprets ppm is not totally uniform - differences in rounding, etc...\r\n\r\nGosh,
    I love technology.\r\n\r\n@kl\r\nMe:\r\n<em>Therefore, I second John Daggett's
    suggestion that all informed and influential voices be heard. All opinions are
    welcome and needed in getting this right.</em>\r\n\r\nYou:\r\n>\"Second\"? \"Hear
    voices\"? \"Opinions\"? Huh?\r\n>But thanks for asking.\r\n\r\nCan't quite figure
    out what you're taking issue with but:\r\nI reiterate my wish that all informed
    and influential voices be heard. All opinions are welcome and needed in getting
    this right. I ask only because it is in my own best interest.\r\n\r\nhttp://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-style/\r\n\r\nRich\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-08 17:30:31'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I ask only because it is in my own best interest.\r\n\r\nno! You said the
    uglier it is, the more I like it...\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-04-08 19:59:08'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@dberlow\r\n\r\n>no! You said the uglier it is, the more I like it...\r\n\r\nThere
    is no contradiction. Controlling the level of ugliness is important.\r\n\r\nRich"
  created: '2010-04-08 20:02:40'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "Here is an example of Cambria, rendered with CoolType in PDF:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/krnng_5702.png]\r\nThis
    is a text size and there is a noticeable difference in kerning pairs. Apparently
    it is much better.\r\n\r\nBut I suspect rendering in old ClearType would look
    worse because there is no subpixel spacing.\r\n\r\nAlso, Mike posted an example
    which is rendered in two different rasterizers, so comparing kerned and unkerned
    version may not be so relevant, because you actually compare rasterizers (with
    tuned settings, btw).\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-09 00:17:57'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "As you would expect, the CoolType rendering is markedly fuzzier (less black;
    more unhelpful artefacts; suboptimal generalized guessing). As you would expect,
    there is further deterioration in the kerned line both at normal and high magnification.
    Why is the kerned text less readable at normal magnification? Because under conditions
    of low resolution and small size, the more spacing the better. If the kerning
    philosophy here were to obtain even spacing by expanding pairs where possible
    rather than contracting them, legibility and reader comfort would increase substantially.
    Which is just another way of making Thomas's point, that, if you have to pick,
    tracking is going to give you better results than kerning. When he first raised
    the point, my first response was that if a system can't do kerning well, it can't
    do tracking well. And that holds. But I lost sight of Thomas's larger point, which
    is that if you have to choose which to use in a suboptimal resolution system,
    tracking is a superior and vastly more flexible option, because tracking is a
    continuously adjustable parameter that can be visually inspected and changed at
    will, while kerning is fixed and closed.\r\n\r\nCambria is an interesting example
    to use, precisely because it is so unrobust under these taxing conditions. "
  created: '2010-04-09 13:52:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: .
  created: '2010-04-09 18:21:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Question: is there <em>any</em> web image format that faithfully preserves
    original colours in the way that .bmp and .tiff do? As we get down to the nitty
    gritty of discussing rendering of text sizes, accuracy of ''real world'' illustrations
    is crucial but, so far as I can determine, impossible with .gif, .jpeg or .png.'
  created: '2010-04-09 18:22:36'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I <em>think</em> that the \u201CPNG-24\u201D setting in Photoshop\u2019s
    \u201CSave for Web\u2026\u201D feature will not change colors. You might have
    to disable \u201DConvert to sRGB\u201D in the dropdown, I do not know if it affects
    PNG images. I\u2019m not sure about just saving to PNG from the file menu. "
  created: '2010-04-09 18:33:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "If we're talking about whether kerning should be specified as on or off by
    default <em>in the context of the CSS standard,</em> then I have to say that it
    should be <em>on</em> because otherwise we end up on the MS Word scenario moving
    forward: it doesn't matter how good displays get or how carefully fonts are made
    and kerned for screen, most web documents will end up with unkerned text for most
    readers for decades to come. I see no good reason to hamper the future of web
    typography with a standard tailored to today's limitations and problems, especially
    not when those can be directly addressed by the web designer and, indeed, the
    font maker, by turning off kerning in specific documents or making web fonts with
    limited and carefully considered kerning. I would much rather be in a situation
    in which kerning is active by default and may be turned off at the document, paragraph
    or even word level, than a situation in which kerning is off and needs to be selectively
    turned on for all those levels. I can also imagine that a web developer will be
    more likely -- and more happy -- to turn kerning off if he sees that something
    looks bad than to turn it on to check to see whether it looks good.\r\n\r\nThe
    screen resolutions of mobile devices are now breaching the 200dpi mark. Does this
    mean that all fonts will suddenly become perfect or adequate screen fonts for
    text sizes? No, it doesn't. But disabling kerning doesn't make them so either.
    The best webfonts will remain fonts designed specifically for screen -- and note
    that I don't include the MS ClearType fonts in this category, since they were
    intended from the beginning as hybrid screen/print fonts --, and I agree with
    Karsten that it makes no sense to disable part of the spacing model that may apply
    to such fonts.\r\n\r\nAs I understand it, David's epar solution effectively treats
    kerning somewhat like antialiasing in the gasp table, something that can be turned
    on or off or perhaps even modified at specific ppem sizes or ranges. This is sensible,
    although as Thomas points out, controlling tracking relative to ppem may make
    even more sense.\r\n\r\nThe difficult issue of kerning in low resolutions is,
    of course, rounding. But then this is also the difficult issue of spacing in general
    for low resolutions, and again Karsten seems right: why disable part of the spacing
    model when the whole model is subject to the same issues?\r\n\r\nFurther, let's
    pull our heads out of the Latin script sandbox and take a look at the numerous
    writing systems of the world for which some amount of kerning is pretty much essential,
    and without which collisions or huge gaps are inevitable due to the unmodularity
    of symbols. In the Latin script, we have it pretty easy because there are only
    a small number of letters, like T, whose shapes mean that their spatial relationship
    to adjacent letters may result in either large gaps or collisions. There are other
    writing systems in which such issues are widespread.\r\n\r\nI'm in the process
    of making an Ethiopic screen font based around a 13ppem grid and presuming sub-pixel
    display and the potential for sub-pixel kerning. Ethiopic fonts desperately need
    kerning, because the irregular shapes can result in white space within words that
    may optically be even larger than the regular word space.\r\n\r\nThe tall vowels
    of the Thai script hang over preceding bo-height letters, unless of course those
    letters are carrying vowel and/or tone marks, in which case contextual kerning
    is required to avoid collisions (kerning off marks embedded within a stack while
    ignoring the presence of other marks: the sort of clever thing that GPOS kerning
    makes possible).\r\n\r\n[Some of these script or language specific spacing issues
    are addressed at the shaping engine level. At least some OTL complex script shaping
    engines not only have the kern feature on by default but also make it impossible
    to turn off; others have it on by default but enable the user to turn it off via
    an application UI.]\r\n\r\nKerning and mark positioning interaction similarly
    becomes critical in many Arabic fonts and, of course, becomes an issue even for
    the Latin script when dynamically positioned combining marks are thrown into the
    mix. So looking at whether or not to kern on screen as if it were 1985 and all
    fonts had only precomposed glyphs and were mostly Latin script seems to me a very
    bad idea. Them interwebs is World Wide."
  created: '2010-04-09 19:07:08'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "About the colors:\r\n\r\nI saved my .png image which was before converted
    to sRGB with Save for Web command. Image is not tagged with any color profile,
    which means (according to W3C) it should be displayed in sRGB. I could also embed
    a color profile &ndash; this is possible with png format.\r\n\r\nBut the problem
    lies in the browsers. IE and FF (default setting in FF) ignore color profiles
    and display images correctly only by coincidence &ndash; if the image is in sRGB
    and user is also using this standard Windows profile. I hope this is a common
    situation. Safari does display images correctly with color profiles. Although
    I have to check if untagged images are displayed in sRGB as they should be according
    to W3C specification."
  created: '2010-04-09 19:23:36'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "John, although I agree on a fuzzy level with many of the points you make,
    your presentation is marred by two weaknesses.\r\n\r\n1. You assume that kerning
    in a font is an absolute, and that it is absolutely correct.\r\n\r\nIt is nothing
    of the kind. Kerning is as subject to fashion as anything else. For example, Matthew
    Carter once told me that the entire Bitstream library had been too aggressively
    kerned, simply because it was the fashion of the day -- and that he wished he
    could now change it -- just fifteen years later -- so far had kerning fashion
    changed in such a short period of time. Kerning also requires to be different
    at different display sizes. Far more important than getting kerning right is getting
    spacing right -- that is the weak point of nearly all font designers. Self-taught
    designers don't get adequate grounding in it, and neither do Reading students.
    You also have to accept that fact that at low resolution, nearly any mechanism
    that contracts space will make the type less pleasant to look at and less legible
    to read. Nor, like kerning, is there ever an absolutely correct spacing. There
    is spacing that works at some sizes and resolutions, and not at others. There
    are different spacing schemes for the same font and the same conditions that look
    different but are both equally valid. There is no one right answer -- although
    there are many, many wrong answers. \r\n\r\n2. You assume you know how Ethiopians
    and Thais read by applying in, I must say, rather an imperial manner, standards
    you have thought up -- standards that are utterly western-centric and not particularly
    sophisticated as such. But you are not fully comfortable with English text --
    so what makes you a suitable candidate to decide what the rest of the world needs?
    The weak point in all your multiscript pronouncements is that you don't know actually
    know anything about these scripts. When you know the languages as well as a native,
    and have learnt to think like an Ethiopian, a Thai, or any of the other unfortunate
    peoples of the world whose scripts you have been high-handedly and gleefully toying
    with for the past ten years, then I will consider that you have something to say.
    But you don't even make an effort to learn anything of these tongues and the vast
    paraphernalia of visual tradition, psychology, etc., that form the soul of these
    scripts. Sir Richard Burton you ain't. You illustrated earlier in this thread
    that you didn't understand the spacing of the 52 basic English letters when you
    stated that straight-sided caps don't need to kern -- Matthew Carter always kerns
    every straight-sided cap to nearly every possible lowercase letter. What audacity,
    then, to impose upon the credulous at Microsoft and elsewhere the idea that you
    are suited to make up rules for other languages. I am agog with admiration! Such
    audacity should be celebrated. \r\n\r\n3. If a font is spaced correctly to begin
    with, then there is a greater likelihood that Thomas's suggestion -- which is
    the only practical one -- will work better.\r\n\r\n4. Maybe it's time to reread
    Walter Tracy on kerning? \r\n\r\n5. David and I have both asked how kerning units
    are expected to be resolved at screen resolutions? What errors will there be when
    two glyphs, each ten pixels wide, are kerned at -63 units? What are the average
    and greatest errors? How do you define what is and is not an acceptable error?
    How are the roundoffs made? When? How capriciously does the subpixel system re-position
    stems? (If memory serves, some years ago David pointed out that with ClearType,
    a row of I's will not all have the same widths -- how has this substantial defect
    been addressed, if it has been? How might kerning or tracking affect it? Similar
    questions for CoolType and Quartz. I mean, what's the point in worrying about
    kerning or tracking when you can't get a row of capital I's to be the same width?
    -- and Karsten thinks there's some sort of integrity possible with this kludge?) "
  created: '2010-04-09 20:04:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill:\r\n\r\n1. I don't consider kerning an absolute. I consider it font-specific,
    and hence subject to fashion, yes, but also to specific technical limitations
    and environments targeted by that font, subject to degradation in some situations/environments,
    and like all spacing should be considered size-specific (see No.5 below) -- all
    of which is expected and why one font does not rule all -- but always font-specific,
    affecting font-specific glyph relationships that a general principle such as \u2018Don't
    apply kerning to any font at X size\u2019 cannot adequately resolve.\r\n\r\n2.
    Bill, you and I managed to get back onto some kind of civil footing over the past
    couple of years. Please don't let your rhetorical enthusiasms get the better of
    you, if only to save me from the near occasion of anger, especially not in Easter
    season.\r\n\r\nI actually do know what I am talking about, work closely with native
    script experts and people who have made serious academic study, take a research-based
    approach to writing systems, and have won awards for type design in local competitions
    judged by native users. Contrary to what you write, I actually make a massive
    effort to understand these writing systems from the inside-out, taking into account
    culture, tools, idioms, manuscript traditions, etc.\r\n\r\n[re. Matthew's kerning
    of uppercase straight-edge letters to lowercase: Matthew's fonts are spaced with
    some internal letterspacing for all-caps, requiring tightening of spacing for
    following lowercase. In other words, these fonts implement two different spacing
    models at the sidebearing level and then correct for the relationship between
    the two models at the kerning level. This is both structurally awkward, prone
    to missed or overlooked relationships (as, e.g. the failure of diacritic letters
    to inherit the kerning of regular letters in those of Matthew's fonts that I looked
    at today), and inefficient at the layout processing level. The \u2018cpsp\u2019
    GPOS feature exists precisely to enable independent spacing of allcaps, making
    it both feasible and sensible to implement only one global spacing model at the
    sidebearing level. Note that I am not criticising Matthew's overall spacing, but
    the way in which it is technically implemented between sidebearings and kerning.]\r\n\r\n3.
    Yes. But kerning is, presuming a well-spaced font, precisely a mechanism for dealing
    with those relationships that are exceptional to sidebearing spacing, and my point
    is that the quantity and nature of those relationships is different across different
    writing systems, and \r\n\r\n4. Maybe also time to read Tracy on non-Latin scripts
    too. Now there is an example of someone pronouncing on other writing systems with
    only the barest, Encyclopaedia Britannica knowledge of them, resulting in a confused
    and fundamentally incorrect description of the Arabic writing system that continues
    to plague font technology to this day, infecting both Unicode and OpenType.\r\n\r\n5.
    A basic principle of raster imaging: the larger the number of \u2018dots\u2019
    you have to wrap a glyph to, the smaller the rounding errors and hence the smaller
    the distortion of the UPM grid. This principle is the same for white areas of
    the glyph as it is for black areas (which is why, in b/w rendering, being able
    to hint the sidebearings was as important as being able to hint the stems). At
    any size other than a one-to-one raster grid to UPM relationship, rounding is
    an issue. Obviously the smaller the raster grid, the coarser the rounding; the
    larger the raster grid, the finer the rounding. Kerning units are UPM units, so
    the obvious answer to how they are \u2018expected to be resolved at screen resolutions\u2019
    is that they should be expected to be resolved like any other aspect of the raster
    grid, because anything other than that is impossible to predict and design for
    (which was a key problem with pre-WPF/DWrite ClearType, in which white space was
    rasterised differently from glyph shape).\r\n\r\nNow, what (striped) subpixel
    rendering does is to increase the resolution in one direction (x-direction in
    most cases), increasing the number of \u2018dots\u2019 and hence reducing the
    distortion of the glyph shape, improving fidelity to the type design as expressed
    in the UPM grid. [And I have been saying for a very long time that the goal of
    all antialiasing, whether grey, colour, full- or subpixel, is to better represent
    the individuality of typeface designs -- a component of WYSIWYG --, and not fundamentally
    a \u2018readability\u2019 technology. The readability aspects of antialiasing
    are relative to quality of design and hinting and to increases in resolution.]
    From this, bearing in mind the principle above, two things may be concluded: a)
    if glyph outlines are rasterised to a subpixel grid, then the whitespace had sure
    as heck better be too (or are we talking out of our arses when we wax lyrical
    about \u2018designing the white\u2019?); and b) screen optimised fonts are fonts
    that have been designed and spaced for specific rendering environments and sizes,
    and anything else is a sub-optimal compromise.\r\n\r\nI take the view that all
    aspects of type are size-specific and that scaleable type is, by its nature, a
    sub-optimal compromise for all but one or a small range of sizes. This is true
    of glyph design and of spacing, including kerning. The mechanisms of our scaleable
    type font formats are mechanisms of degradation: one can, for instance, increase
    tracking, but that affects sidebearing spacing independent of kerning values.
    Hinting, traditionally, enabled one to correct for some -- but not all -- kinds
    of degradation, e.g. by in effect applying size-specific glyph design adjustments
    and by hinting sidebearings. As antialiasing intrudes, the impact of such methods
    is reduced proportionally to the fidelity to the UPM expressed design, i.e. the
    more the rendering engine strives to make the font look like a specific typeface,
    the less the font maker can strive to optimise it for a specific size. As David
    has long since concluded, the only possible response to full-on hint-free antialiasing
    \xE0 la Apple is individual designs for individual ppem sizes. Welcome back to
    the world of 'optical masters' or whatever else you want to call them.\r\n\r\nBut
    presuming scaleable fonts and the use of the same design and font-internal spacing
    data at different sizes, here's an aspect of GPOS kerning with which most people
    are probably unfamiliar: all GPOS lookups, including \u2018cpsp\u2019 and \u2018kern\u2019
    lookups, may have size-specific adjustments. In other words, it is possible, within
    the OTL GPOS kerning infrastructure, to adjust kerning for specific ppem sizes.
    This doesn't, of course, do away with the unpredictability of different rendering
    engines, with rounding issues, etc., as the adjustments are subject to the same
    raster issues as the outline and basic spacing. But it does mean that, uniquely
    I believe, OpenType provides for size-specific kern data. Now, I'm not aware of
    even one OT font that makes use of size-specific GPOS adjustments for kerning
    -- and only aware of one font that makes use of size-specific mark attachment
    adjustments --, because frankly life is short."
  created: '2010-04-09 21:46:50'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Super response, John. No need to rage - - I'm just keeping you on your toes!
    \r\n\r\nHow important is Apple's current Quartz policy? How assured is its continuation?
    How badly does Quartz perform under kerning scenarios? How do we know Apple hasn't
    got something new up its sleeve? If kerning is going to be implemented, isn't
    it excessively onerous that there be three entirely different subpixel rendering
    engines to which text might be subjected? I would have thought, going forward
    into the darkness of kerning and tracking, that the dominant model will be MS's.
    \r\n\r\nMuch else to think about here.\r\n\r\nSmall point: where diacritics fail
    to inherit parent kerning, the reason may be that many or most of the parent combinations
    aren't likely to occur.\r\n\r\nAlso I was unaware about ppem-specific kerning
    tables. Now that makes sense:  you could easily calculate the units you needed. "
  created: '2010-04-09 22:27:03'
- author:
    name: hoefler
    picture: 128166
  body: 'Regarding the possibility of kerning in Safari, it''s worth mentioning that
    unlike Firefox, Safari for Macintosh does not employ subpixel positioning: it
    renders glyphs the same way each time, not shifted based on their correct fractional
    position along the x-axis. Since it therefore renders sidebearings inaccurately,
    I can''t imagine the situation being much improved by adding kerning.'
  created: '2010-04-10 13:45:46'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "<em>If we're talking about whether kerning should be specified as on or off
    by default in the context of the CSS standard, then I have to say that it should
    be on because otherwise we end up on the MS Word scenario moving forward: it doesn't
    matter how good displays get or how carefully fonts are made and kerned for screen,
    most web documents will end up with unkerned text for most readers for decades
    to come.</em>\r\n\r\nRegarding CSS, I'm getting the feeling that the term \"on
    by default\" could use some clarifying.\r\n\r\nBrowsers apply default style sheets
    that automatically set properties for different HTML elements. This happens \"sight
    unseen\" in the background. In other words, browsers first \"style\" the page
    according to this built-in default style sheet. Additional styling supplied by
    the author or user are in addition to these default styles. \r\nThis default style
    sheet acts as a fallback mechanism so that at least some styling is applied in
    the absence of another style sheet. An example of this rudimentary styling is
    often what you see in an RSS feed viewed in a browser.\r\nIt is very common practice
    for web authors to use a group of \"reset\" style rules to modify the defaults
    so as to get a clean slate - it makes things easier. (Google \"reset CSS stylesheets\"
    and I'm sure a dozen variations will pop up.)\r\nFor kerning, what \"on by default\"
    means is that for any element with textual content the default style sheet will
    set kerning to ON.\r\nNow, when this gets implemented, it's not going to be a
    secret. Web authors will either let the default stand or add a rule to the reset
    that turns kerning off.\r\nThis will become a matter of habit and best practice.\r\nIn
    those situations - like a bare-bones RSS feed - where there is *only* the browser's
    default styling, I can't see any harm in kerning being set as ON. (And even then,
    user's always have override options.)\r\nUnder usual circumstances, web author's
    aren't going to be hamstrung one way or the other simply because kerning is on
    by default. Whether it's on by default or off by default will, down the road,
    be very close to six of one, half a dozen of the other.\r\n\r\nRich\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-10 15:27:28'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Mr. Hudson>As I understand it, David's epar solution effectively treats kerning
    somewhat like antialiasing in the gasp table...\r\n\r\nThe EPAR as suggested says:
    \"Use of the font without kern table? Yes/No\", and lets one turn pairs on and
    off at size/pixel boundaries. The Yes/No, is intended for fonts that \"require
    kerning\" to \"say so\", and the rest is for people who want to describe the delicate
    balance of performance vs. quality in use. The EPAR as published for comment is
    incorrect and I have noted it to the developer.\r\n\r\nThe other whole issue being
    discussed is a perfect example of making the best wywsiwyg possible \u2014 vs.
    screen typography. If John D. and Simon D. want to turn kerning on by default
    in pursuit of wywsiwyg (and in the absence of a tag just to indicate fonts that
    require kerning), we'll just have to react with even more expert work until the
    1% of fully wywsiwyg-ed users grows up. I will even do my best to correct the
    fact that only 1/4 of Verdana is kerned. \r\n\r\nWe all, (those involved in current
    web type projects of various kinds), are about to take a quality beating over
    this, no matter what we do, (with the exception of the alternative, an economic
    beating) \u2014 no one 'out there' gives an a's tail for MS's or Apple's wywsiwyg,
    (if you need a spectrum-o-proof, just look at the decade of anti-aliased abstinence
    of XP users, and the popularity of the iPad). The main reason for this beating,
    as I've said, is that the \"standards\" process is ____ed up, significantly so
    by now, via seemingly mindless meddling by those uninvolved in web type projects
    of any meaningful kind.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-10 15:43:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Rich: <em>For kerning, what \"on by default\" means is that for any element
    with textual content the default style sheet will set kerning to ON.\r\nNow, when
    this gets implemented, it's not going to be a secret. Web authors will either
    let the default stand or add a rule to the reset that turns kerning off.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat
    I am interested to know -- and perhaps John Daggett can comment on how this might
    work out in Firefox -- is how this level of kerning toggling in CSS relates to
    shaping engine behaviour. As a non-browser parallel, consider Microsoft Office,
    which notoriously has kerning turned off by default, relying on the user to turn
    it on. But individual script shaping engines (in Uniscribe) automatically apply
    the \u2018kern\u2019 layout feature for some scripts, and toggling the Word kerning
    control on/off makes no difference at all to whether those scripts are kerned:
    they are always kerned because the shaping engine is effectively grabbing control
    of kerning as part of standard script and language shaping.\r\n\r\nI'm intrigued
    to know whether a browser using these shaping engines (whether in Uniscribe or
    in DWrite), will behave like Word, accepting whatever shaping layout features
    the engine applies, including kerning; or, indeed, whether the browser using such
    layout engines has any choice in the matter."
  created: '2010-04-10 19:00:57'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">user's always have override options\r\n>web author's aren't going to be
    hamstrung\r\n\r\nAnd you're worried about kerning?\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apostrophe\r\n\r\n>no
    one 'out there' gives an a's tail for MS's or Apple's wywsiwyg, (if you need a
    spectrum-o-proof, just look at the decade of anti-aliased abstinence of XP users,
    and the popularity of the iPad)\r\n\r\nOh yes, there is always <em>that</em>."
  created: '2010-04-10 19:32:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>\u2026a zoomed object should always reveal as accurately as possible
    the underlying object. Zooming should not change its characteristics, only its
    visibility or legibility or comprehensibility.</em>\r\n\r\nWhile that's general
    true for content creation software and static layout documents, I think a case
    can be made that \u2018zoom\u2019 in the context of dynamic layout documents might
    be differently interpreted or, perhaps, that a distinction needs to be made for
    such documents between zooming and englarging. Enlargning text and other elements
    within a dynamic layout document is precisely the sort of thing that I would expect
    to affect the layout, including the microtypography since, after all, the text
    is being displayed at a different size."
  created: '2010-04-12 02:54:34'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I think the desirable behavior for screen is not turning off kerning at
    small sizes, but adjusting tracking at those sizes.\r\n\r\nI was just looking
    at metal type like this in the 1912 Linotype specimen book. There was no kerning
    to begin with, and in the process of making smaller sizes, they just spaced it
    all out. Later, C. Griffith came in, threw it all away and developed all new series.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-04-12 22:33:25'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">that a distinction needs to be made for such documents between zooming and
    englarging\r\n\r\nYou wish to make a distinction for . . . whom? The same people
    who for ten years kept ClearType turned off? Aren't they (and even us) confused
    enough already? ? ? And John, speaking of distinctions, Bill Keller was very upset
    when he took over the New York Times and discovered that the newspaper had spelt
    the name Madeleine Albright in over 20 different ways over the years, but here
    in one paragraph you spell enlarging incorrectly twice, which is unlike you. Is
    it a return of your old post-Paschal tension? \r\n\r\nDavid, did Griffith actually
    revise old series with different spacing? There certainly are optical adjustments
    in some of the classic American sans serifs - - though I don't know why I am thinking
    particularly of sanses. What would be interesting is if Lino ever did a sans with
    f-logotypes. Surely not? "
  created: '2010-04-13 17:04:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill, when I increase the zoom in e.g. FontLab or InDesign, it is because
    I want to examine more closely some detail of the design/layout; when I increase
    the zoom in Firefox, it is almost always because the text a page is too small
    for me to read (usually due to inappropriate use of absolute text sizing in CSS).
    That being the case, why wouldn't I want that text to be reformatted for the larger
    display size? Either what makes good typography good is size-specific or it isn't.
    If it is size-specific, then dynamic text should incorporate dynamic typography
    (preferably within a dynamic layout).\r\n\r\nRe. 'enlargning'. I would be more
    concerned if I made the same spelling error in two different messages: within
    a single paragraph, I put it down to temporary proprioceptive misfire."
  created: '2010-04-13 17:34:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"temporary proprioceptive misfire.\"\r\nIs that \"HudsonSpeak\" for typo?
    :-)"
  created: '2010-04-13 17:52:41'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "No, Chris, it's HudsonSpeak for a <em>repeated</em> typo.\r\n\r\nHaving made
    the wrong movements once when typing a particular word, without catching the mistake,
    the likelihood is increased that the brain and hands will repeat the same error
    when typing the same word."
  created: '2010-04-13 19:13:05'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">David, did Griffith actually revise old series with different spacing?\r\n\r\nMy
    understanding is he ordered it all... drawings, matrices, patterns, and pinches
    into a dumpster, and started over. \r\n\r\nMy hero. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-04-13 19:27:35'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Mr. Hudson> ...a distinction needs to be made for such documents between
    zooming and englarging. \r\n\r\nYes, I think it does. But is that within the widest
    imaginable scope of <em>any</em> WG at this time?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-04-15 13:23:44'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@dberlow\r\n\r\n>Yes, I think it does. But is that within the widest imaginable
    scope of any WG at this time?\r\n\r\nI think it is, if you're talking W3C WG.
    But not in the way you might imagine.\r\nI've done a lot of work on this.\r\nBeing
    able to detect, via script, zoom and text size settings and, as importantly, detecting
    user changes as capturable events that the scripter can react to programmatically,
    will do the trick.\r\nRight now it's a slapdash proposition - depends on the browser.\r\nIn
    IE you can detect changes in Zoom:\r\nhttp://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc849094(VS.85).aspx\r\n\r\nIn
    some ways this is similar to your Franky page, if I remember it correctly.\r\nI
    have a proof of concept of this that's fairly well-formed, which includes capturing
    Text Size also, but I had to put it on ice for awhile.\r\nY'know, the web fonts
    thing.\r\n\r\nRich"
  created: '2010-04-15 14:34:04'
date: '2009-08-25 20:24:18'
node_type: forum
title: What is Typekit?

---
