---
author:
  name: Simplicious
  picture: 117329
body: "Simplease is a User Experience Company located in Austria. To support the meaning
  of the name I decided that the simplicity and geometry of Futura might do a good
  job. For this design I slightly adjusted it (especially the 's'). In general I changed
  the x-height as well as the bowls.\r\n\r\nI would really appreciate your critiques
  on this first iteration of the logo. What do you think of the adjusted Futura? Did
  I get the kerning right? Anything else?"
comments:
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Nice.\r\nA pair of points my tired eyes have nticed are: something didn't
    quite work in the meeting beetween S and i.\r\nYou would want to review the spacing
    of ea and se."
  created: '2009-08-26 13:34:35'
- author:
    name: Ed_Aranda
    picture: 117416
  body: "the l seems a bit crowded to me, but overall, it looks nice enough.\r\n\r\n[edit]
    also maybe open up the ea a couple ticks."
  created: '2009-08-27 00:00:25'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: For some reason "ease" looks fractionally shorter (in height) than "imp".
    Also, what Ed said regarding e-a kerning.
  created: '2009-08-27 06:33:34'
- author:
    name: Marco
  body: Agree on opening up the e-a kerning. Also to my eye the capital S looks less
    bold than the rest of the mark. (could also mean I need my morning dosis of caffeine)
  created: '2009-08-27 07:01:22'
- author:
    name: Simplicious
    picture: 117329
  body: "Thanks a lot for your feedback. Regarding to your input I've reworked the
    capital S and opened the e-a kerning. I attach a screenshot from FontLab so you
    can have a closer look at the x-height. As epsilicon said \"ease\" looks a bit
    shorter than \"imp\". I think it's because the shoulders of \"mp\" and \"ease\"
    are too close to the x-height. Maybe making them a bit higher will help. I will
    try that later today.\r\n\r\nI also have to show you an older version because
    people tend to like it more. The font I've used was Helvetica Inserat Oblique.
    I agree that it looks nice but I'm not sure it communicates the right message
    (it reminds me of washing powder).\r\n\r\nWhich one would you prefer having in
    mind it should be company-logo?\r\nThank you again for your comments and I am
    really looking forward to reading more from you.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/simplease_2_3761.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/simplease_hel-in_5909.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/x-height_3609.png]\r\n<cite>Screenshot
    from FontLab<cite>"
  created: '2009-08-27 09:48:59'
- author:
    name: Simplicious
    picture: 117329
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/simplease_3_3584.jpg]\r\n \r\n \r\nRegarding
    to what epsilicon said about the optical difference in height between \"imp\"
    and \"ease\" I heightened the shoulders so they share the same line like the right
    finish of the capital S. To my great delight this caused a huge improvement on
    the overall appereance. Thank you very much for sharing this observation.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/shoulders_5180.png]<ol><cite>Screenshot
    from FontLab Studio<cite></ol>\r\n\r\n\r\nps: I'm still not sure about the capital
    S. As you might see it slightly changed from version to version. Any suggestions?
    Is it bold enough in this version?"
  created: '2009-08-27 12:03:49'
- author:
    name: Simplicious
    picture: 117329
  body: "Latest iteration:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/simplease_9_6617.jpg]"
  created: '2009-08-27 18:43:56'
- author:
    name: picard102
    picture: 112137
  body: I'm not digging the knocked out version at all. Over designed imo
  created: '2009-08-28 01:13:03'
- author:
    name: Simplicious
    picture: 117329
  body: "getting closer:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/simplease_12_4225.jpg]"
  created: '2009-08-28 04:57:29'
- author:
    name: Simplicious
    picture: 117329
  body: "What do you think of the customized 's'? I've worked on it for hours now
    and can't tell anymore either it fits or it does not fit into the overall appearance.
    As you can see It's the child of Univers 55, Helvetica Bold and Futura Bold. Since
    I'm not digging the Futura-'s'at all I decided to stay with more organic Grotesques
    which should on one side not destroy the geometry built by the rest of the word
    and on the other side not look like it's a byproduct of the other letters. That's
    very important because since the word starts with a capital 'S' this letter becomes
    the most important one and should not look like the gestalt of it is forced to
    the restrictions of the other letters. What do you think of it?\r\n\r\nbtw: I
    think the capital 'S' needs some refinement but I'll go for that later on.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/custom_s_6193.jpg]"
  created: '2009-08-28 15:21:56'
- author:
    name: Ed_Aranda
    picture: 117416
  body: "I think the s is working. I'm not a type designer, but it looks like you
    did a nice job of fusing the three styles. One thing I am noticing, and maybe
    it\u2019s just me, is that the \u201Cp\u201D and \u201Ca\u201D stand out because
    they seem to have more negative space than the other letters.\r\n\r\n[Edit] \r\nOr
    actually, maybe the e\u2019s have too little negative space. The strokes seem
    to stay thick all around. I wonder what it would look like if there was a bit
    more stroke weight variance within the e. "
  created: '2009-08-28 21:59:41'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "Agree with Ed. Something had been bothering me for some time, but couldn't
    put my finger on it. Fix one or the other problem.\r\n\r\npenn"
  created: '2009-08-28 23:39:57'
- author:
    name: Simplicious
    picture: 117329
  body: "You hit the Bull's Eye Ed-Aranda. Thank you very much for this comment it
    helped me a lot. What do you guys think of it now?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/whitespace-balance_4383.jpg]"
  created: '2009-08-29 02:26:15'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: I'm starting to see the issues with Futura's lower case a. You should check
    out <a href="http://typophile.com/node/59322">this thread</a>, by Randy Jones.
    I don't really like his a's, but I'd love to see a better solution than Renner's.
  created: '2009-08-29 17:45:32'
- author:
    name: Simplicious
    picture: 117329
  body: "My intention was to give it a simple and clean look and I thought that futura
    (especially because of the a) would work for me. Actually I think it does. But
    since simplicity is not everything, I wanted it to look more like Helvetica or
    Univers. That's why I changed the s. This was intented to make it look more organic
    and I think that this is the core issue. In my opinion Renner's a works perfectly
    for Futura (as well as the 's' does. Especially because of what he wanted to achieve.
    It wasn't the main target to make it look perfectly but to create it from simple
    geometrical shapes.) But regarding to what I want to achieve I have to agree to
    your comment.\r\n\r\nThank you a lot for you input as well as for the link you've
    provided to me. I will take a closer look at it as soon as I find the time."
  created: '2009-08-29 18:30:05'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Going with a minimalistic one story 'a' is no bad decision, I just think Futura's
    'a' could need some more attention where the bowl meets the stem.
  created: '2009-08-29 20:51:15'
- author:
    name: Simplicious
    picture: 117329
  body: "Regarding to what Frode Frank has suggested and what I've read in the linked
    forum topic I made some changes to my 'a'.\r\n\r\nThe increased x-height gives
    me the possibilty to have a more oval bowl which decreases the slight awkwardness
    of the overall shape like in Futura BQ Bold. In my opinion it doesn't look as
    forced to geometry as in the original typeface tough it still communicates simplicity.
    Unlike the original stem of the 'a' mine is slightly floating to the right and
    the bowl doesn't visually cut it anymore.\r\n<em></em>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/a_5208.jpg]<dd><strong>(A)</strong>
    <cite>Futura Bold by Berthold</cite> <strong> - (B)</strong> <cite>Futura Bold
    by Adobe</cite><strong> - (C)</strong> <cite>My version</cite></dd>\r\n<em></em>\r\n<em></em>\r\n<em></em>\r\nWhat
    do you think about it? Are there any suggestions?\r\nIs this what you were talking
    about, Frode Frank?\r\n<em></em>\r\nI'd like to thank you again for all your valuable
    comments and I'm really looking forward to reading more of your very constructive
    feedback. This is great :)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-30 15:35:05'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Yes! It looks great. Good work!
  created: '2009-08-30 22:20:36'
- author:
    name: mariqua
  body: It's beautiful and the tweaks have gone a long way. Am I still getting a Volkswagen
    vibe?? Maybe a different color will help it not feel like a car leasing program
    from VW. Or perhaps you're still in hicon phase? In any event, you have done some
    lovely letterwork.
  created: '2009-08-31 00:55:53'
- author:
    name: Simplicious
    picture: 117329
  body: "Thank you a lot for your comments. I will try to show it in context as soon
    as possible but right now I'm feeling unhappy about my 's'. There's still some
    need for refinement.\r\n\r\nI just took a closer look at the Volkswagen Logo and
    think that there's enough distinction since it's in Futura Medium and with more
    space in between the letters. But you're right I'm still in hicon phase (if this
    means at an early stage) and not sure about color at this time. The only problem
    I can already see is that I'm really coward when it comes to the usage of colors
    but I'm sure you will help me through this promblems as soon as the occur. :)\r\n\r\nThank
    you again. I really appreciate your feedback a lot."
  created: '2009-08-31 08:46:34'
- author:
    name: Simplicious
    picture: 117329
  body: "Since I wasn't very comfortable with the current version of my 's' I took
    some time to refine it. Basically I wanted it to be more shaped like a pyramid
    -> wider at the bottom and becoming more slender at the top. Furthermore I made
    the spine a bit bolder because the old 's' seemed to become thiner and thiner
    the closer it comes to the center of the spine.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://typophile.com/files/new_s_4556.jpg\">[img:sites/default/files/old-images/new_s_4556.jpg]</a>\r\n<ul><cite>Tweaking
    the 's'</cite></ul><ul><em></em></ul>\r\n<em></em><a href=\"http://typophile.com/files/new_3808.jpg\">[img:sites/default/files/old-images/new_3808.jpg]</a>\r\n<ul><cite>In
    context</cite></ul><ul><em></em></ul>\r\n\r\nI also made some quite subtle changes
    to 'm' and 'e'. What do you think about the current version?\r\n<em></em>\r\n<cite>Since
    the forum displays the images a bit bigger then they actually are you can click
    them to see them in their original size and with out this disturbing artifacts.</cite>"
  created: '2009-08-31 13:33:48'
- author:
    name: Simplicious
    picture: 117329
  body: "That's it for today. My eyes are tired and my kerning changes from minute
    to minute and so I'll leave it up to you.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://typophile.com/files/august_31_4779.jpg\">[img:sites/default/files/old-images/august_31_4779.jpg]</a>"
  created: '2009-08-31 17:55:58'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I'd let the counter cut into the stems of 'p' and 'a' a bit. I think Futura
    does that not (only) because of a penchant for circles, but also because optically
    without it the stem looks too thick, as I think yours might (very slightly).
  created: '2009-08-31 18:28:07'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Nice progress on this one.\r\nI think your new \"s\" looks great in isolation,
    but seeing the entire word I wonder if it doesn't look a bit diminutive and squashed,
    especially between the rather heavy/wide \"a\" and \"e\". I'd maybe try making
    it slightly wider. \r\nAgree with Craig that the \"a\" and \"p\" seem slightly
    too heavy. The \"ease\" part of course is tricky because you've got the rather,
    uh, straightforward \"a\" to balance with all that crowded stuff, darkness-wise.
    I hope you're doing a lot of squinting :-)"
  created: '2009-08-31 18:37:04'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: p-l-e is kerned a bit tighter than the rest. Also agree with altaira regarding
    the lowercase s, it does look a bit foreign in the context.
  created: '2009-08-31 18:44:02'
- author:
    name: Simplicious
    picture: 117329
  body: "ahhh ... thank you so much for your critiques. That's awesome :)\r\n\r\neliason:
    I was thinking about letting the counter cut into the stems but then decided to
    leave it the way it is since two typophiles seemed to like it. But as soon as
    I've read your comment the bold stems jumped into my eyes. Thank you for this.\r\n\r\naltaira:
    Maybe that's the key! I was really getting my hands dirty on 'ease' and I just
    wasn't able to balance it. The current version has appropriate distances between
    the letters but it's the balance between white and black that doesn't feel right
    at the moment. Making a slightly heavier 's' might help me with this. Thank you
    for sharing your observation. And squinting is key :) \r\n\r\nepsilicon: Good
    to know ... I wasn't able to tell anymore whether it's too tight or not. Thank
    you."
  created: '2009-08-31 19:01:45'
- author:
    name: Simplicious
    picture: 117329
  body: "Though it's still a little dirty concerning it's execution I think it goes
    into the right direction. I'd like to thank you again :)\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://typophile.com/files/corrected_dirty_3523.jpg\">[img:sites/default/files/old-images/corrected_dirty_3523.jpg]</a>\r\n\r\nWhat
    are you thinking about it now?"
  created: '2009-08-31 19:54:08'
- author:
    name: Simplicious
    picture: 117329
  body: "Regarding to the latest comments I've spent the last day working on the \"s\".
    Unfortunately I'm still having problems with the capital version. Nevertheless
    I would love to hear what you think about the new \"s\". After hours of tweaking
    I can't judge it anymore :)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://typophile.com/files/new_s_3961.jpg\">[img:sites/default/files/old-images/new_s_3961.jpg]</a>\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://typophile.com/files/e-s_5593.jpg\">[img:sites/default/files/old-images/e-s_5593.jpg]</a>\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://typophile.com/files/in_context_3474.jpg\">[img:sites/default/files/old-images/in_context_3474.jpg]</a>\r\n<em></em>\r\n\r\nAs
    you can see the new \"s\" is based on the \"e\" to ensure it's wide enough to
    combat with it's neighbours. I will start mastering the \"S\" as soon as it's
    child has passed your evaluation. I'm thanking you in anticipation."
  created: '2009-09-02 15:36:14'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: <em>This is an oddly enjoyable thread, I'm really considering continuing with
    nitpicks just to keep it going :)</em>
  created: '2009-09-02 21:28:57'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "It is a wonderful thread. It's also becoming an instance of staring into
    the scary abyss that is type design \u2013 the longer I stare at that \"s\", the
    less I know if it's good. Now I'm worried about giving bad advice, so I'll be
    watching from behind my rock. :)"
  created: '2009-09-02 21:36:34'
- author:
    name: Simplicious
    picture: 117329
  body: "I am working on this eight letters for about one week now spending more or
    less the whole day on it. The only thing I'm absolutely sure about is the \"l\"
    :)\r\n<em></em>\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/simplease_16_5145.jpg]"
  created: '2009-09-02 21:46:23'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: I keep reading it as 'sim please'. If it's supposed to be pronounced 'simple
    ease' then perhaps it needs something visual to assist with that.
  created: '2009-09-02 22:51:29'
- author:
    name: Simplicious
    picture: 117329
  body: "Actually it is supposed to be pronounced as \"sim-please\" though it contains
    of \"simple\" and \"please\" and the \"ease\" is just a bonus for those who know
    that this is part of \"ease of use\" which perfectly suits usability and user
    experience. The most important message is \"simple please\" which can be seen
    as what the customers demand. They want simple products. The please also indicates
    that the products are actually services. All those deliberations are more or less
    subliminal and we want \"simplease\" to be read as one unique word that's easy
    to write, read and pronouce and of course easy to remember.\r\n\r\nbtw. what do
    you think of the concept? The renaming was the first step of our rebranding and
    we decided to go this way because both words \"simple\" and \"please\" are basic
    english and people here in Austria are quite familiar with them. We've tested
    it and all the probands were able to spot \"simple\" and \"please\". The previous
    name was \"simplicious\" which isn't only hard to spell (for non native-speakers)
    but also not understandable for those who don't know words like delicious or precious
    (...and there are a lot of them in Austria :) ). Though I think that phonetically
    \"simplicious\" sounds more like a typical company-name the sound of \"simplease\"
    is more unique and as a result more recognizeable."
  created: '2009-09-02 23:12:55'
- author:
    name: marcdavid
    picture: 117869
  body: "i prefer the name Simplicious. The continuity of letters is more appealing
    and it sounds sexier.\r\nIt sounds like a actual word already being used in the
    American English language. It's what you say when something is simply delicious.\r\n\r\nNow
    regarding Simplease, I too pronounce sim please.\r\n \r\nThe letter forms look
    nice, but the two letters that aren't fitting, to me, are the capital S and the
    a.\r\nThe S appears slightly heavier and more narrow than it should. The letter
    \ a appears a bit heavier, it looks like the weight is in the thickness of the
    letterform.\r\n\r\nThis logotype will definitely have longevity. Nice work.  "
  created: '2009-09-03 03:53:44'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "Simplease is a very good name considering the description you gave in the
    first post. It is distinct and it is easy to remember. I think it <em>is</em>
    a good choice.\r\n\r\nSimplicious on the other hand has an in-your-face reference
    to delicious.com, so lots of online people would assume it's a clone or a relative
    of latter. I doubt you want that."
  created: '2009-09-03 06:37:24'
- author:
    name: Simplicious
    picture: 117329
  body: "I will split the next posting into two separate parts. The <strong>first</strong>
    one is regarding the <strong>logotype-evolution</strong> and the <strong>second</strong>
    one is regarding the <strong>company-name</strong>. In case you are not interested
    in one of them it might be easier for you to only grab the information you want.\r\n<em></em>\r\n<strong>(1)
    LOGOTYPE-EVOLUTION</strong>\r\n\r\nDue to your previous comments and some observations
    I've made on my own I decided to put more effort into the details.\r\n<em></em>\r\n<strong><cite>a)
    Letter-Tweaking</cite></strong>\r\n<em></em>\r\n<em></em>\r\n<ul>[img:sites/default/files/old-images/new_cap_S_5144.jpg]</ul>\r\n<ul><cite>Making
    the \"S\" a bit thinner</cite></ul>\r\n<em></em>\r\n<em></em>\r\n<ul>[img:sites/default/files/old-images/new_a_6350.jpg]</ul>\r\n<ul><cite>The
    \"a\" is now perfectly oval-shaped and has a slightly bigger bowl</cite></ul>\r\n<em></em>\r\n<em></em>\r\n<ul>[img:sites/default/files/old-images/new_s02_4011.jpg]</ul>\r\n<ul><cite>Clearer
    distinction between the bowls and \"nicer\" roundings</cite></ul>\r\n<em></em>\r\n<em></em>\r\n<strong><cite>b)
    Gray scale value</cite></strong>\r\n<em></em>\r\n<em></em>\r\n<ul>[img:sites/default/files/old-images/greyscale_value_6375.jpg]</ul>\r\n<ul><cite>In
    the previous version \"simp\" was slighlty darker than \"ease\"</cite></ul>\r\n<em></em>\r\n<em></em>\r\n<ul>[img:sites/default/files/old-images/compare_grey_4094.jpg]</ul>\r\n<ul><cite>A
    less bold \"S\" and an oval-shaped \"a\" combined with some kerning helped</cite></ul>\r\n<em></em>\r\nBasically
    I slightly put more space in between the \"S-i-m-p\" plus the tiniest little space
    between \"p-l-e\" to balance it with the cirtical letter-combination \"e-a\".
    I think it is an improvement though I'm not sure it's already perfect.\r\n<em></em>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/simplease_20_5709.jpg]\r\n<em></em>\r\n\r\nWhat
    do you think about it? Any kind of feedback is appreciated.\r\n<em></em>\r\n----\r\n<em></em>\r\n<strong>(2)
    COMPANY-NAME</strong>\r\n\r\n<strong><cite>Simplicious:</strong> Simply good,
    simply delectable, simply delicious. Like salt, use it sparingly to add a twinge
    of spice and sophistication to any conversation. (Urban Dictonary)</cite>\r\n<em></em>\r\nAt
    first we were boosted by this definition and thought that it will perfectly suit
    our needs. But after a few months I realized that it has a strong connotation
    to cooking. This was the start of a renaming process that last for about 3 months
    and funnily ended with \"Simplease\" which is very close to the old name though
    we came up with about 6-8 potential candidates which did not include the \"simple\".\r\n\r\n<strong>@marcdavid:</strong>
    I totally agree on what you said about the sounding of \"simplicious\" but we
    decided that \"Simplease\" beats it in any other competition.\r\n\r\nThe biggest
    problem with \"simplicious\" is that it becomes kind of an oximoron when people
    don't understand the \"icious\". They will read \"simple and something complicated\".
    The different versions of how probands have pronounced it were really funny (german-speakers
    can imagine what I mean). Furthermore \"simplicious\" contains two words with
    two absolutely different meanings and we wanted to send <cite>only one</cite>
    message. Though we know it's only superstition that \"simplifying\" is a proper
    tool for designing the user experience we know that it's exactly what our customers
    are asking for. They want simple products delivered in a simple (comfortable)
    way. We also decided that when anyone googles \"Usability\" or \"User Experience
    companies\" the one which contains simplicity will easily be recognized as such
    a company.\r\n\r\nFor everyone who's interested -> We have about 60 pages of documentation
    about the whole process containing all the reasons and all the attributes on which
    we judged some of the candidates. Unfortunately it's all in german.\r\n\r\n<strong>@epsilicon:</strong>
    Thank you for your comment about it's reference to \"delicious\" -> you're right,
    that's not something desireable :). As a result of this \"simplicious\" is too
    \"in your face\" and to strongly connected to a Web-Company which we defintiley
    don't want to be.\r\n\r\n<strong>To summarize the process:</strong> \"Simplease\"
    has a clear message which is understandable for the main target group. By designing
    a typographic logo we want to communicate this message. Do you think it works?\r\n<em></em>\r\nI
    would like to thank all of you for everything you've mentioned so far. It was
    a big help and the current version is the result of all your observations. Thank
    you for sharing your knowledge :)"
  created: '2009-09-03 11:05:53'
- author:
    name: marcdavid
    picture: 117869
  body: "Simplicious,\r\n\r\nThank you for the background on the naming. Too bad for
    me that the document is only for your German speaking friends, I would be interested
    in seeing 60 pages on that topic. My comment on the name was more visceral than
    founded in research. I do think this name and logotype that you've developed will
    have sustainability. I only hope the company will have the longevity the timeless
    nature your design will sustain.\r\n\r\nI feel the slight changes you've made
    do help with the visual balance of the logotype. Excellent work.\r\n\r\nOnce you
    decide on color. Will you be developing a set of logo standards and usage for
    this company?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-03 16:09:02'
- author:
    name: Simplicious
    picture: 117329
  body: "Thank you for your comment marcdavid, I appreciate it a lot.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"I
    only hope the company will have the longevity the timeless nature your design
    will sustain.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nI do hope so too and to clear up any confusion:
    I am working at Simplease and responsible for Typography, Usability-Engineering
    and User Experience Design thus I will do my best :)\r\n\r\nI will definitely
    develop a guideline for logo standards and usage though I have no imagination
    about colors yet. In my opinion colors are so important that I can't decide on
    them right after designing the type -> I need some time now to let it rest and
    develope some ideas. (btw. I'm still not 100% sure about the logotype)\r\n\r\nRegarding
    to the documents on renaming the company I can possibly mock up a rather short
    english version as soon as I find the time."
  created: '2009-09-03 20:30:20'
- author:
    name: Simplicious
    picture: 117329
  body: "Regarding to what I've read in <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/61679\">another
    thread</a> I decided to take a closer look at \"p\" and \"a\".\r\n\r\n<cite>\"One
    of the things I note about single-storey a is that the counter and bowl always
    appear slightly larger than that of d if actually the same size.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nSo
    I studied the different versions of Futura Bold and noticed that there is a slight
    difference between \"a\" and \"p\" and where the bowls meet the stem. I've tried
    to adopt this to my logotype. Furthermore I've tried some different kernings and
    decided to present you this last one in which I'm not sure if the \"ease\" looks
    horrible or perfectly alright. I've also opened the \"p-l-e\" kerning as recommended
    by epsilicon.\r\n\r\nI hope you can spot the difference and tell me whether it's
    an improvement or not (or if it got worse).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/simplease_27_5892.jpg]"
  created: '2009-09-05 14:08:10'
- author:
    name: Simplicious
    picture: 117329
  body: "<cite>\"the longer I stare at that \u201Cs\u201D, the less I know if it\u2019s
    good. Now I\u2019m worried about giving bad advice, so I\u2019ll be watching from
    behind my rock.\r\n:)\"</cite>\r\n\r\nIt took some time but now I totally agree
    on what you've said <strong>altaira</strong>. The \"s\" was too wide especially
    when you compare it to the \"s\" of other fonts. That's why I've changed it (again)
    and also adjusted the capital \"S\" to suit it -> I hope it fits now.\r\n\r\nThis
    time I've also experimented with color. I decided on <cite><strong>C</strong>=100
    <strong>M</strong>=50 <strong>Y</strong>=20 <strong>K</strong>=0</cite> which
    gives me a very intensive greenish blue. Now let me explain why I've choosen this
    color.\r\n\r\nFor a User Experience Company there are two big components. On the
    one hand we have humans and on the other hand we have science. The black version
    doesn't communicate science at all and so I thought it might be a good idea to
    communicate this via color. The little touch of green makes it more organic than
    typical corporate blues and supports the human vibe of the bold and friendly looking
    letters. That's at least what I hope it does :).\r\n\r\nI've also attached a screenshot
    of how it might be perceived by color blind persons (Protanopia and Deuteranopia)
    regarding to this <a href=\"http://www.etre.com/tools/colourblindsimulator/\">colour
    blindness simulator</a>.\r\n<em></em><em></em>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/simplease_34_6713.jpg]\r\n<em></em><em></em>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/color_blindness_5991.png]\r\n<ul><cite>Protanopia
    looks the same (Tritanopia looks like in the original version)</cite></ul>"
  created: '2009-09-08 16:35:45'
- author:
    name: Simplicious
    picture: 117329
  body: "New dot on the i, slighty changed \"S\" and \"s\" and a different tracking:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/simplease_new_6285.jpg]\r\n<em></em><em></em>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/simplease_new_small_5614.jpg]"
  created: '2009-09-11 15:36:44'
date: '2009-08-26 09:18:24'
files:
- filename: simplease.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/simplease.jpg
node_type: forum
title: Simplease Logo

---
