---
author:
  name: neil summerour
  picture: 110292
body: "Hi Everybody:\r\n\r\nI got some great advice to post this question on the forum...so
  here goes:\r\n\r\nI apologize for being vague, but I have to. I have a client that
  has approached me to expand a font I had done some work on awhile back. Currently,
  the basic glyphs are being used but this font needs to be expanded to include a
  full character set including diacritics, loads of clean up, lots of hinting and
  so on so that it can be used in a video game. It's a well-known video game with
  multiple iterations.\r\n\r\nTo say the least I am excited to take on the project
  but I need to provide a price...this is where I am concerned. I want to price it
  fairly but I do not want to 'give it away' given that this is a well known brand
  and very well known video game.\r\n\r\nI am not looking to retain rights to the
  font.\r\n\r\nDoes anyone have any ideas as what my mindset needs to be, hoe I should
  be thinking about pricing this?\r\n\r\nThoughts?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "A few questions...\r\n\r\nIs the font in question yours? If not, who's is
    it?\r\n\r\nDid you license the font to this company for the intended use, or is
    this a license extension?"
  created: '2009-09-03 19:16:18'
- author:
    name: neil summerour
    picture: 110292
  body: "this is going to be hard to answer.\r\n\r\nand it's because of how the font
    came about. there is not a formal license established. the designer who created
    the initial characters, created the glyphs for the sole purpose of using it for
    a singular set of print projects. The original designer of the glyphs would not
    be involved in this other than me showing/reviewing the additional work I do as
    a courtesy. I would want their sign off on the final work since they referred
    this aspect of the project then.\r\n\r\ni would do this for exclusive use by/for
    them and do not see this ever being used by anyone else.\r\n\r\nthis is a strange
    set of circumstances, i realize which is why i have questions/concerns"
  created: '2009-09-03 21:08:41'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "At the risk of stating the obvious it seems like, at the very least, this
    needs to be figured out in a basic time/materials cost basis. \r\n"
  created: '2009-09-03 21:25:07'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Besides the costs of basic time and materials (what would be those materials
    anyway?) the major consideration here is the licensing issue. A well know video
    game brand. Multiple iterations. You say a formal license was never established.
    Well it seems like the perfect time to establish that license. It could be quite
    a lucrative deal if it is negotiated correctly.\r\n\r\nBefore you decide on a
    price you should shop the hinting around. Requirements for applications like this
    are usually very specific, and even if you like hinting (!), you are better off
    jobbing it out to someone who does it all the time"
  created: '2009-09-03 23:19:52'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: In my view, if you negotiate a formal licence and not just an hourly rate,
    then you should split some proportion with the original designer. If not, you
    should at least include the original designer's time on review/advice in the billing
    quote.
  created: '2009-09-04 01:08:19'
- author:
    name: neil summerour
    picture: 110292
  body: on splitting with designer....whole heartedly agree. same with their time.
  created: '2009-09-04 02:19:02'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "i assume you are dealing with a specific person\r\nat the video-game company,
    or as go-between.\r\n\r\nbe frank with this person, but also understand\r\nthat
    this is a negotiation, not an interchange\r\namong \"friends\", and that both
    sides desire\r\nto have a fair and equitable deal done here...\r\n\r\nstate your
    desire to \"do a great job for you\",\r\nespecially as \"it will be seen by lots
    of people\";\r\nexpress reservations that the amount of time\r\nyou would ideally
    like to spend can't be offset\r\nby leveraging the product to other customers,\r\nas
    the video-game company gets it exclusively.\r\n\r\nhere's where the frankness
    comes into play.\r\nask your contact, directly and forthrightly,\r\nhow much they've
    budgeted for your work.\r\n\r\nyou can add that this will give you an idea of
    \r\nhow much time you can devote to the project.\r\n\r\nyour contact will probably
    give you a range...\r\nthis should make your decision much easier.\r\n\r\nif your
    contact wants you to go first, do this:\r\n\"you have 2 million customers; at
    a dime each\r\nfor my work, that would work out to $200,000.\r\nor -- at a penny
    a piece -- it would be $20,000.\"\r\n\r\nyou can even bring up the idea of payment
    based\r\non royalties, such as a penny for every game sold.\r\n\r\nyour contact
    will never go for this type of deal --\r\nbecause they want to avoid the messy
    accounting,\r\nand they want blockbuster profits to stay internal.\r\n\r\nbut
    taking this tack will motivate your contact to\r\nproduce the range they have
    budgeted for you...\r\n\r\ndon't be afraid to take the top end of the range.\r\n\r\nbut
    it's perfectly ok to take the middle part of it,\r\nif it seems like it will be
    a generous enough offer...\r\n(it's much better to underpromise and overdeliver.)\r\n\r\nyou
    can also give the client some choice-points;\r\nthey can get the mid-range of
    their budget for\r\nthe basics, or pay extra for more of your time...\r\n(a company
    rolling in cash will want your best.)\r\n\r\nin the event the range you are given
    is too low,\r\ndon't be afraid to say it, and stand your ground.\r\n\r\neven if
    the price is great, don't let them get the\r\nimpression that they have offered
    you too much.\r\n\r\n\"that's a little bit lower than i had in mind, but\r\ni
    guess we can make it work...\" is a good line...\r\n\r\nremember, it _is_ a negotiation,
    and they don't\r\nwant to feel that they have paid you too much.\r\n(companies
    rolling in cash are sensitive to that.)\r\n\r\nin this vein, if you hear your
    contact saying,\r\n\"that's a little bit higher than we had in mind,\r\nbut i
    guess we can make it work\", you'll know\r\nthat you've done this little dance
    successfully.\r\n\r\n(and if your contact is experienced at doing this,\r\nthat
    is the line they will use to signal you that.)\r\n\r\nwhatever you settle on,
    once you've agreed to it,\r\nyou must put on a good face and do a good job.\r\n\r\nyou'll
    probably end up spending more time than\r\nyou anticipated -- pretty much a fact
    of life --\r\nbut a deal is a deal and you'll need to stick to it.\r\n\r\n(at
    the same time, don't let 'em extend the work\r\nunless they're also willing to
    extend the budget!)\r\n\r\nenjoy the work, and then enjoy seeing your work\r\nall
    over the world, and do congratulate yourself!\r\n\r\nlet us know how it goes...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-04 08:49:07'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Hire a lawyer to advise you on the negotiations. Do not do this on your own.
    Your client will have access to legal counsel. You should make sure you are similarly
    assisted. Find someone who has worked in the type licensing world so they can
    advise you on what are the customary price ranges for these sorts of licenses.
    Do not do this on your own. This is all about managing and protecting intellectual
    property. Make sure you manage and protect it.
  created: '2009-09-04 12:30:23'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "I find that type of job is the most difficult to price. If I'm working on
    a font I get to keep/sell after the job is done, I charge less, about a fifth
    of the exclusive price. If it ends up being more work that I expected, I don't
    feel ripped off because I can make if back in the following decades of font sales.\r\n\r\nBut
    these jobs where I don't get to keep the font afterward, I'm just clocking in
    hours. Of course, no client is ever satisfied compensating for hours; they want
    a number up front. The time on a font can vary so much so it's really tough to
    do a proper estimate from the initial description. The solution that's worked
    well for me for non-exclusive or fonts the client owns is to offer free test work.
    I give a really vague price range just to see if they're expectations are reasonable.
    I explain that there's no obligation to pay for the test font. If it's non exclusive,
    it's still mine and if it's not then it's not my problem. Be clear about that
    in your negotiations.\r\n\r\nThe test font: It depends on the job but in general,
    I create a few letters, let the client test it on their equipment, do some test
    hinting, kerning on those letters, weight tests etc. If they bail out at that
    point, you've lost hour of two of work and there should be no hard feelings. I've
    done about 80 custom font jobs over the last decade and nobody's ever bailed out
    on me. Okay, one guy. I could have spent those hours negotiating the price, working
    on contracts, sending emails back and forth and it would have been time wasted
    anyway. I prefer to spend my time in FontLab instead of on the phone or Gmail.\r\n\r\nBy
    the time I've gone back and forth and have a working test font, I have a very
    clear idea of how much work is involved in the project and I can give them a proper
    price quote. I don't need to crank it up to allow for overruns. I can make a fair
    price. How much they've budgeted for their work or how deep their pockets appear
    to be shouldn't matter. Work is work: if you crank up the price based on what
    the client seems to be willing to pay . . . then I don't like you. I get paid
    what I'm worth. If it's too steep, they can try someone else. A lawyer? How annoying
    for the client. How annoying for me. How nice for the lawyers. I just set my price,
    set my terms and do the work and get paid. Maybe some of you think that's a naive
    way to do business but it works. Apart from the rights to the font (a separate
    matter) there's never been a need for me to use a lawyer. My client is a customer.
    Unless they've actually violated an agreement, there's no need to go down that
    road.\r\n\r\nMaybe some people have had bad experiences with clients but I've
    never had a problem  . . . except that one guy. I get the final quote to the client
    within days, not weeks, I get the job done and money in my account. The test font
    allows the client to do some early testing and in some cases it can vastly change
    the scope of the project. Clients often think they know what they need and find
    out later that they need something different. It happens a lot, actually. \r\n\r\nOnce
    in a while, a job goes a bit longer than I had anticipated. Sometimes, shorter.
    Time spent on fonts is time spent building my skills/speed, not time wasted. A
    few times I've asked a client for more because the scope of a job changed and
    they've always agreed.\r\n\r\nThat's my angle anyway and my experience with it
    has been very good. 10 years, and about 80 jobs.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-04 14:15:00'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "I think everyone gets \"that one guy\". Eventually you get the ability to
    sniff them out and suggest they might prefer a different supplier.\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-04 16:40:00'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Not such a quick question after all!
  created: '2009-09-04 18:38:52'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "typodermic, that's great advice!\r\n\r\ni'm not sure it applies to the original
    poster\r\n-- it seems that they have the job locked up,\r\n(and, moreover, it
    was dropped in their lap),\r\nso now it's just a matter of how to price it --\r\nbut
    for other situations your advice is great.\r\n\r\ni might disagree slightly with
    your take on\r\ndifferential pricing based on ability to pay.\r\n\r\nif you consider
    yourself a \"mere\" craftsman,\r\nsure, charge your hourly rate and be done...\r\n\r\nbut
    if you're an artist, well, what is art \"worth\"?\r\n\r\nfurther, if the product
    as a whole is bringing in\r\nmillions of dollars -- or even, literally, billions
    --\r\nit doesn't seem to me to be unfair or inequitable\r\nto put that fact into
    your overall pricing equation.\r\n\r\nand i absolutely agree with your distaste
    for lawyers.\r\nsome people's solution for everything is \"hire a lawyer\".\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-04 20:57:55'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I'm laughing at your distaste for lawyer comment. Sooner or later you are
    going to have to use them, and you are going to have to establish a very good
    relationship with at least one. Big money corporate licensing is not negotiated
    on the phone with you asking your client what the budget is.\r\n\r\nI didn't think
    you all were a bunch of pikers, but my mind is being changed with comments like
    the above."
  created: '2009-09-04 21:42:42'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "terminaldesign said:\r\n>   I\u2019m laughing at your distaste for lawyer
    comment.\r\n\r\nthat's so ironic.  because i feel sad that your life\r\nseems
    to have been filled with a need for lawyers.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   Sooner or later you
    are going to have to use them\r\n\r\njust about every experience i've ever had
    that has\r\ninvolved lawyers has ended up being unpleasant...\r\n(except for that
    cute one i ended up in the sack with.)\r\n\r\nmost of the time, it's just a mildly
    unpleasant thing,\r\ntrue, kinda like an icky case of indigestion, but still...\r\n\r\n(indeed,
    the reason i probably chose to use \"distaste\"\r\nis precisely because i associate
    lawyers with indigestion.)\r\n\r\n\r\n>   Big money corporate licensing is not
    negotiated on \r\n>   the phone with you asking your client what the budget is.\r\n\r\ndid
    you actually read what the original poster wrote?\r\n\r\nthis is a relatively
    straightforward job, one that was\r\nessentially dropped into their lap (by someone
    else),\r\nto \"expand a font\", where the \"initial characters\" were\r\ndesigned
    by someone else, \"who referred this aspect\r\nof the project\".\r\n\r\nit seems
    to me that everyone involved in this thing is\r\nacting honorably -- even the
    video-game company,\r\nwho could have just done the expansion in-house --\r\nso
    i don't see the need to sic lawyers on anyone here.\r\n\r\nif that's the first
    thing you always do, it's no wonder\r\nthat you find that your need for lawyers
    is constant.\r\n(the whole legal system is designed to perpetuate\r\nand extend
    the need for itself; it's quite insidious.)\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-04 23:17:58'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Oh I read the original post. And I read, <cite>It\u2019s a well-known video
    game with multiple iterations.</cite>\r\n\r\nClearly you have nothing to do with
    the type business, yet you can go on and on offering your opinion about an industry
    you seem to know very little about. I just want neil to get everything he is due.
    No need to give away the original designer and his hard work. If a lawyer is needed
    why not? I'm always struck at the na\xEFvet\xE9 of most of the posters on this
    forum in regards to doing business. I may not wholly like the corporate world,
    but I've learned to how to live in it and make it work for me. \r\n\r\nThat's
    the last bit of pricing advice I give on this forum. Neil can sell his bit of
    work for a couple of hours of his time and feel fine, good for him. I still think
    you are all a bunch of pikers. \r\n\r\nGive it away Give it away!! Good for you.
    Acting honorably? Hah!\r\n\r\n  "
  created: '2009-09-05 00:14:22'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: James, just ignore the creature.
  created: '2009-09-05 00:20:02'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Thank you Jan, I will.
  created: '2009-09-05 02:23:39'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "terminaldesign said:\r\n>   If a lawyer is needed why not? \r\n\r\nand if
    a lawyer is _not_ needed, why let one suck you dry?,\r\nas well as pollute what
    could be a very happy relationship,\r\none that may well continue to produce some
    good healthy\r\nrecurring paychecks for a very long time down the line?\r\n\r\nwhy?\r\n\r\nhey,
    if you find yourself in a situation where you _need_\r\na lawyer, then by all
    means, make sure you _get_ one...\r\n\r\nbut don't invent a need for one if you
    don't have a need.\r\nbecause they're not fun, and they're not cheap, not at all.\r\n\r\nheck,
    even if you had a lawyer on retainer, in this case,\r\nan ethical lawyer would
    opt out with a \"you don't need\r\nany legal assistance from me in this particular
    situation\".\r\n\r\nthat's because both sides agree who will own the font,\r\nso
    the only question is compensation, and you're not\r\ngoing to get more pay just
    because you have a lawyer\r\non your side of the table.  (in fact, after your
    lawyer takes\r\na cut, you're going to end up with significantly less pay.)\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  Give it away Give it away!!\r\n\r\nwho advised the original poster to \"give
    away\" the work?\r\n\r\ncertainly not me!\r\n\r\nsearch the text on this very
    page for \"$200,000\" and\r\nit should become very clear to you that i wasn't
    telling\r\nthe original poster to \"give away\" any work.  far from it.\r\n\r\ni
    counseled to remind the video-game company of the\r\nextreme reach that the font
    would receive in their game.\r\n\r\ni advised specifically against thinking \"hourly
    rate\" terms.\r\n(even though both sides agreed it's a \"work for hire\" job.)\r\n\r\nbut
    just because this is \"a well-known video-game with\r\nmultiple iterations\" (rock
    band?) does _not_ mean you've\r\nwon the freaking lottery, and you're entitled
    to millions...\r\n\r\none of the most irritating aspects of any big project is\r\nthe
    guy who did some small part of it, but comes in and\r\nsays their contribution
    was the sole reason for success,\r\nand so demands a payoff that is wildly disproportionate.\r\n\r\nand
    in this case, not only would you make yourself look\r\nfoolish, but it would also
    reflect on the original designer,\r\nwho had recommended that you be contacted
    for the job.\r\n\r\ni'd guess the original poster can bill whatever they choose,\r\nand
    the client will say yes, and everything will go smoothly.\r\nand -- because of
    that -- the next time that client wants\r\nsomething like this, they will call
    the original poster again.\r\n\r\nno need for lawyers, or for any other kind of
    unhappiness...\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nsome people turn every thing in their life into
    a sour event.\r\nthese are the people whose first thought is to hire a lawyer.\r\nthese
    are also the people who try to poison online forums...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-06 20:39:45'
- author:
    name: farquart
  body: "...hey bowerbird...\r\n\r\n(...Im editing this because you are not worth
    it....)"
  created: '2009-09-07 02:54:54'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "\"if you consider yourself a \u201Cmere\u201D craftsman, sure, charge your
    hourly rate and be done... but if you\u2019re an artist, well, what is art \u201Cworth\u201D?\"\r\n\r\ndoes
    not compute"
  created: '2009-09-07 05:43:13'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "farquart said:\r\n>   (...Im editing this because you are not worth it....)\r\n\r\nthat's
    amusing, in a wide variety of ways...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-07 07:37:04'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "typodermic said:\r\n>   does not compute\r\n\r\nin your reply above, you
    said this:\r\n>   How much they\u2019ve budgeted for their work \r\n>   or how
    deep their pockets appear to be shouldn\u2019t matter. \r\n>   Work is work: if
    you crank up the price based on \r\n>   what the client seems to be willing to
    pay . . . then I don\u2019t like you. \r\n\r\nwell, that indicates to me that
    you would charge the exact same\r\nto a cash-poor client as you charged a client
    with deep pockets.\r\n\r\nit's ok with me if you do that.\r\n\r\nbut i also think
    it's fine to charge a deep-pockets client more...\r\nespecially when you know
    that the product of your labor will be\r\n\"used\" in a much more far-reaching
    way, because of that client.\r\n\r\nit also has something to do with the way you
    think of your work.\r\n\r\nif it's a straightforward job, you charge a straightforward
    price.\r\nthis is what i call being a \"craftsman\", and that's very honorable.\r\n\r\nif
    you consider what you do to be \"art\", which is _also_ honorable,\r\nthen you're
    certainly operating reasonably if you price it differently,\r\nin my humble opinion.
    \ you can charge whatever the market will bear,\r\nand that might have nothing
    to do with the number of hours spent...\r\n\r\nin this case, both neil and the
    video-game company know that\r\nhis work will go in front of a very large number
    of people, and\r\nthey agree that his work will be owned -- exclusively -- by
    the\r\nvideo-game company, so i think he is entirely justified charging\r\na rate
    that might be several multiples of his typical \"hourly rate\"...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-07 07:52:30'
- author:
    name: Bloodtype
    picture: 114182
  body: What's with all the underscoring?
  created: '2009-09-07 14:18:42'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "bloodtype said:\r\n>   What\u2019s with all the underscoring?\r\n\r\nit indicates
    emphasis in most light-markup systems.\r\n(it's a convention that dates back to
    the usenet days.)\r\n\r\nsince most modern-day browsers are incapable of\r\nretaining
    styling when text is copied out of them\r\n-- please, actually try it before arguing
    with me --\r\ni use the underscores so that my intent stays clear.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\np.s.
    \ if you're curious, safari and internet explorer\r\nare the two browsers that
    i know that retain styling.\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-07 20:25:47'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "I guess I gtt  what you're saying but it still doesn't make much sense to
    me to quote a price that way. Fonts are (in my experience) commissioned to be
    used as tools. Tools to make headlines or hey, even art. Maybe some of them could
    be vanity pieces but I've never seen it. You brought up art but I'm specifically
    talking about font design: I don't know anything about art pricing.\r\n\r\nI think
    clients deserve something better than a quote based on gut instinct about how
    I \"feel\" about the use of a font. I think it's unprofessional and similar to
    market vendors who size up their customers wallets and making up a price. That's
    what you can be if you like. If you're asking \"what's your budget for this project?\"
    you're no better than a weasley used car dealer, in my mind anyway. Yeah,k I'm
    judgmental about that kind of thing. If a store has no price tags, I'm out of
    there.\r\n\r\nI price separate aspects of the job: work and licensing. When I
    sell fonts through a vendor, I don't charge more based on \"far reaching\" or
    artistic. A customer might be using it for a dog food label, album cover or a
    lost dog poster. I charge based on the number of users, just like MyFonts.com
    and other vendors. It's consistent and to me, consistent pricing is fair. If the
    fonts are going to be included with software or whatever, there's a custom contract
    involved and a system to deal with that. Often the licensing cost is higher than
    the work cost.\r\n\r\nLicensing and work: two different things. Licensing doesn't
    affect the work cost.\r\n\r\nWork is worth $X.\r\nLicensing the font is worth
    $Y\r\nIf lawyers have to get involved in licensing details then of course, that
    has to be taken into consideration.\r\n\r\nI charge the client $X+$Y\r\n\r\nThere
    is a \"giant mega-company\" extra charge but I'll get to that later. It has nothing
    to do with how deep their pockets are.\r\n\r\nIf the work is non-exclusive and
    it's only going to be used by 1-5 users, the extra charge for licensing is around
    the standard retail price. So for a single font for a single user, the licensing
    aspect might only crank up the cost by $20. Most clients want a site license for
    a custom font, so I adjust the licensing cost. If they're going to include it
    with software, they want to sell it, I factor that into the licensing cost.\r\n\r\nI
    don't think this model would work for exclusive fonts, but I wouldn't know as
    I don't do exclusives.\r\n\r\n\"well, that indicates to me that you would charge
    the exact same to a cash-poor client as you charged a client with deep pockets.
    it\u2019s ok with me if you do that.\"\r\n\r\nWell, I would hope so. When a rich
    guy walks shops at Wal-Mart, they don't charge more. If Bill Gates wants to commission
    a font for a lost dog poster, I'm not going to charge him more. If you don't keep
    those costs separate, work and licencing, at least in your own mind when you're
    quoting, then you're not being professional, or ethical. It's a simplistic model;
    I'm sure other people have much more elaborate pricing systems. But, at the very
    least, the very least keep those two aspects separate.\r\n\r\nBut there is something
    to charging more for larger companies. The bigger they are, the longer they take
    to pay. Small-medium company: you get your check the next week. Big company: add
    6 months at least. They also require reams of paperwork. You invoice, they want
    a work order. Then they want an invoice again. Then they want tax forms and it
    goes on and on. So, you can work for days just on the paperwork. With small companies
    it's usually just an invoice and check sent within a week of job completion. But
    this type of charge should be reasonable. It's not thousands of dollars of inconvenience
    to have to sign a ton of forms and wait for a check. Hundreds, sure but not thousands.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-08 09:05:22'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "typodermic said:\r\n>   I don\u2019t think this model would work for exclusive
    fonts\r\n\r\ni think that says it all.\r\n\r\nbecause this is an exclusive font,
    to be owned by a company\r\nthat will put this font in front of millions of customers.\r\n\r\nit's
    also interesting that i'm getting it from both sides...\r\n\r\nterminaldesign
    said this:\r\n>    It could be quite a lucrative deal \r\n>   if it is negotiated
    correctly.\r\n\r\nperhaps i'm not reading it entirely correctly, but\r\nthat sure
    seems like \"soak the rich guy\" to me...\r\n\r\nthe offsetting reality, of course,
    is that this is \"work for hire\",\r\nand the video-game company will just go
    find someone else\r\nto do the job if they decide that neil is getting overly
    greedy,\r\na decision that would reflect poorly on the kind person who\r\nreferred
    this plum to neil...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-08 17:09:53'
- author:
    name: neil summerour
    picture: 110292
  body: "thanks for all of this feedback!\r\n\r\nyes, it turned out to not be a quick
    question, but I love this type of back and forth.\r\n\r\nlet me process everything
    that has been said so far and I will weigh in\r\n\r\nmany thanks to all for the
    honest opinions and practical insight!"
  created: '2009-09-09 06:12:34'
date: '2009-09-03 18:08:48'
node_type: forum
title: Quick Question on Pricing

---
