---
author:
  name: David Boni
  picture: 117710
body: "Hello, everyone.\r\n\r\nFirst time throwing out a design of mine on any sort
  of forum. I've always been a lurker of Typophile. This new logo I'm designing for
  a lighting company was born out of a commission for new business cards. Since I'm
  a fairly isolated and new designer, I'd like to have some thoughts from veterans
  before it gets hoisted up on 10000 cards, a new website, and possibly other things.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/apollo-lighting-typof_6485.png]\r\n\r\n\r\n...spent
  an obscene amount of time coming up with that after trudging through concept after
  concept. It was one of those \"aha\" moments when I finally decided to stop playing
  around with fancy type and symbols and fall back to trusty Avant Garde. Fair warning:
  I'm pretty new at designing logotype and getting paid for it. Am I on the right
  track?"
comments:
- body: "It has a promising aesthetic, and a clean; kinda retro approach can work
    well for a lighting store. So, you are on the right track, but it's a long track
    and you just got on.\r\n\r\nBiggest problem first - it reads: APGLLG LIGHTING\r\n\r\nThe
    G and O look like a computer power buttons. Is that what you were going for? If
    so, I don't get it. (And if so, make it not so. The power button is so over used!)\r\n\r\nMaybe
    if you explain what the G is supposed to represent we can give you better feedback
    to make it work? "
  created: '2009-09-07 07:14:08'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Agree with Alaskan \u2013 the difference between those things that should
    read as \"O\"s and those that should be \"G\"s is too slight. Once the viewer
    gets that it's \"APOLLO\" and not \"APGLLG\", he's consequently also going to
    read \"LIOHTINO\". \r\nWhat's the concept/idea behind those symbols?\r\n\r\nBTW,
    welcome to Typophile!"
  created: '2009-09-07 08:24:39'
- author:
    name: blaze.online
    picture: 114451
  body: "I also agree with Alaskan, although i find the O's looking more like an E
    than a G. Maybe making the gap between the both ends of the O smaller (in other
    words, try to make more of a visually ongoing circle for the O's).\r\n\r\nSorry
    if I'm being a bit unclear, English isn't my primary language, and I'm finding
    it hard to explain what I mean)"
  created: '2009-09-07 14:13:12'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "I had absolutely no problem reading it. I asked someone else to read it without
    any comment from me and they read it as Apollo Lighting immediately, no hesitation.\r\n\r\nSharon"
  created: '2009-09-07 16:11:36'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I read it right away, too.\r\nI might try just flipping the O's horizontally.
    (or would they start looking like D's?)"
  created: '2009-09-07 16:48:16'
- author:
    name: Simplicious
    picture: 117329
  body: "I had no problem reading it but as soon as I've realized the similarity of
    \"O\" and \"G\" I asked myself: \"What does it mean? Is it somekind of electrical
    signage? Maybe some circle shaped desklamps?\" I have no idea.\r\n\r\nIn my opinion
    the \"O\" works good but the \"G\" is too abstract. It doesn't feel like a typical
    \"G\" and is only perceived as one because of the context it's in. Maybe try to
    play with the angle."
  created: '2009-09-07 17:37:37'
- author:
    name: David Boni
    picture: 117710
  body: "Actually, guys, they're light bulbs (power symbols? never in a million years)
    within the negative space. And I was more afraid that the O's would look more
    like C's. Here's a few more looks:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/apollo-business-card-small_5884.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/G_5944.png]\r\n\r\nAnd
    thanks for all the comments so far!"
  created: '2009-09-07 20:19:57'
- author:
    name: Pentapus
    picture: 112892
  body: "I read APOLLO LIGHTING just fine but I did not get the \"light bulb\" either.
    I don't mind that much.\r\n\r\nMy main concern is about Avant Garde at its medium
    weight. It looks a bit dull/dated. Perhaps a lighter weight would fix this since
    it has such a structured geometric stance."
  created: '2009-09-07 21:47:22'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "<em>I had absolutely no problem reading it.</em>\r\n\r\nSame here. It actually
    takes me an effort to read it in some other way.\r\n\r\nWhat I did have a problem
    with is the meaning of the O symbol. The closest relevant concept is the shape
    of those older 60-s desk lamps with a heavy light shades and curved arm. But then
    I look at the Gs and this association goes away and leaves me with \"what _is_
    that symbol ?\".\r\n\r\nI don't see a light bulb. I guess I can see the power
    symbol, but it is a bit of a stretch.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, if I don't look
    for the concept behind the O/G, the wordmark works just fine. It is legible, it
    is subtly, not in-your-face unique and it is memorable. So all in all, it should
    work well."
  created: '2009-09-07 23:40:02'
- author:
    name: picard102
    picture: 112137
  body: Lightbulbs? Never in a million years.
  created: '2009-09-08 01:57:34'
- author:
    name: David Boni
    picture: 117710
  body: "Funny you should mention using a thinner weight, Alex. This is one of my
    earlier concepts using Avant Garde:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/apollo-light-3_6591.png]\r\n\r\nModifying
    the G is what eventually led me to try out the lightbulb thing (think the type
    of spherical, perfect orb-like bulbs and not the normal kind). The sunburst was
    a pretty point-blank idea (Apollo...) though I thought the sun's rays could literally
    be \"waves\" because this particular lighting company provides a lot of marine
    lighting solutions for yachts and things. It was more recently that I learned
    the company has lights for residential and commercial needs, too.\r\n\r\nJust
    for the record, I don't like putting the sunburst around the O because a. it's
    cheesy, b. it weighs that side of the logotype down. If the mark is disembodied,
    I can't seem to make it play nice with the text.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/apollo-light-4_4197.png]"
  created: '2009-09-08 05:29:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Apollo plays the lyre.\r\nGo with it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-08 06:21:56'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "I favor the more greek mythology take on the name. Perhaps it doesn't need
    to be incorporated into the logotype, but could be a stand alone symbol instead.
    \r\n\r\nI like the feeling from this second version better.\r\n\r\npenn"
  created: '2009-09-08 18:47:06'
- author:
    name: michaelartman
  body: "I also dont really think there is any problems in legibility of the first
    concept you posted. \r\n\r\nAt first I didnt really grasp the concept, but once
    you told us they were light bulbs it all came together for me. (The image you
    put together with the light bulbs actually illuminated is what did the trick)
    \ Unfortunately, I feel that that symbol is kind of lost in the black and white
    wordmark.  Maybe the idea would come through stronger if you tried to hint in
    some threading on the light bulbs, or if you added a reflection in these somehow
    to make it seem more like glass within the negative space of the O/G. \r\n\r\nI
    like the design though, as it seems very modern and clean.. which is an image
    a lighting company should be trying to convey I would think.\r\n\r\nOne thing
    I see though, is word \"Apollo\" is very powerful simply because of its attachment
    to mythology.  It might be a good idea to play around a little more with developing
    a concept around \"Apollo\" rather than \"Light bulb\".. although the fact that
    it is a lighting company certainly trumps the mythology factor in my mind. \r\n\r\nGood
    work.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-08 19:10:49'
- author:
    name: Artboy34
    picture: 115388
  body: "I actually read \"APOLLO LIGHTING\" from the very first time that I read
    it, but I didn't catch the ingenious graphic lightbulb shape until you showed
    the enlarged character. The bulb is well done, but the fact that you flopped it
    to form the alternate character sort of voids the graphic light direction effect.\r\n\r\nI
    really like the design, but perhaps you need to (as someone suggested) add some
    subtle graphic elements to flesh out the bulb visual; have you considered using
    the bulb element in only one of the words?\r\n\r\nMartin Bentley Krebs\r\nDesignosaur
    since 1980"
  created: '2009-09-08 19:22:06'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "<em>the ingenious graphic lightbulb</em>\r\n\r\nOh, oh, oh ... I see it now
    ! Wow, it is like one of those optical trick pictures - it is very hard to see
    the secondary image, but once you see it, you can't see anything else :)"
  created: '2009-09-08 19:35:51'
- author:
    name: Simplicious
    picture: 117329
  body: "Just an idea: Would it be possible to make the wordmark two lines and place
    the letters in a way that the four lightbulbs form some kind of chandelier? Maybe
    with some additional lightbulbs. This might make it easier for viewers to grasp
    your idea (which I like somehow).\r\n\r\nE.g. having a chandelier with 6--8 lightbulbs
    from which four are made from the negative space of \"O\" and \"G\".\r\n\r\nI
    hope that's understandable, though it's a very vague idea.\r\n:)\r\n\r\nNevertheless
    I think both version have good potential and maybe my idea would just overcomplicate
    it."
  created: '2009-09-08 19:39:22'
- body: Can somebody please explain, visually if possible, how that's a light bulb?
    Making it bigger didn't help me see a light bulb at all.
  created: '2009-09-08 23:35:58'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Imagine the crossbar of the G as the half of a lightbulb collar that is in
    shadow, and the gap as the half that's in light.\r\n\r\nTook me a while too.\r\n\r\n(BTW
    putting a SUNburst in the middle of a word associated with the MOON landings is
    a poor direction IMO.)\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-09 00:38:06'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "<em>Can somebody please explain, visually if possible, how that\u2019s a
    light bulb?</em>\r\n\r\nThis is how I see it:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lightbulb_6571.png]"
  created: '2009-09-09 03:02:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Looks more like a flaming match (pointing diagonally downward).\r\nApollo
    Arson Services?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-09 04:32:20'
- body: "Thanks, epsilicon. \r\n\r\nThe abstraction is taken too far, in my opinion.
    It's not iconic if everyone is wondering what it's representing -- and even after
    you tell them, they still don't see it.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-09 05:00:20'
- author:
    name: David Boni
    picture: 117710
  body: "Finally, someone saw it. Thanks for that lovely info-graphic, epsilicon.
    Unfortunately, it's a bit too late for that version. I've already redesigned it,
    this time to be a bit more obvious. Bear in mind that this is only a wireframe:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/apollo-lighting-logo-small_5306.png]\r\n\r\nI
    wanted the type to be a bit more distant from Avant Garde, so I made some subtle
    alterations besides the pointed/sloped termini (widened the H, T, P and L's)\u2014I
    tried to build on a theme of clarity, sharpness, boldness, and energy. The lightbulb
    icon can now stand alone, and the words can be displayed stacked or side-to-side.\r\n\r\nI
    feel like this design can work as a goofy faux-3d Web 2.0-ish logo or as-is. I
    like the idea of a chandelier or some sort of abstract lighting installation.
    I was actually hoping to build this logo with a real lightbulb and letters cut
    from some sort of material to act as a prop for the client's studio/showroom.\r\n\r\n(by
    the way, what's the norm here on Typophile for directing comments at folks? To
    use the first name in their profile or just their username?)"
  created: '2009-09-09 10:06:49'
- author:
    name: Simplicious
    picture: 117329
  body: "It's definitely easier to see the lightbulb now though I'm wondering if it
    still works without showing it's winding in such a detailed way. This maybe causes
    problems when displayed in a rather small size.\r\n\r\nRegarding to the serifs
    I'd suggest adjusting them in a way that makes the \"L\" more suitable to the
    \"O\". Furthermore the serifs of \"A\" and \"P\" look too different. I can see
    why you've made them the way they are but especially \"P\" looks a bit strange.
    I would not establish serifs in \"LIGHTING\" since they're only applied to \"L\"
    and \"G\" and therefore feel out of place.\r\n\r\nTake a closer look at the kerning
    of \"G\" and it's neighbours since it looks like the distance is too wide compared
    to other letter-combinations.\r\n\r\nNevertheless I think it's a big improvement.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-09 11:16:42'
- author:
    name: Lorem.ipsum
    picture: 117984
  body: "I'm sorry to say: Avant Garde looks better without the changes you brought.
    The changes you made are really obvious and you might want to try another font
    of create an new one that fits the \"o\" better  from scratch. \r\nThe bulb-shaped
    \"O\" is an improvement though..."
  created: '2009-09-10 14:00:16'
- author:
    name: David Boni
    picture: 117710
  body: "You're absolutely right, Lorem.ipsum\u2014though I'd love to make a new font,
    (in fact, I was attempting to) the time constraints for this project and the cost
    will not justify such an endeavor. My alterations look rushed and unstable when
    looking at my designs a second time.\r\n\r\nWell, it looks as if this will be
    the last revision. Thanks for all the feedback, everyone. I'm going to post another
    message with my sprawling concepts and revisions found within my single Illustrator
    file if anyone's interested.\r\n\r\nIt's worth mentioning that this is the only
    design I've made where I didn't do any sketch work beforehand (save for the failed
    sunburst mentioned earlier in this thread). Last time I ever do such a thing.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/apollo-final-rev_4465.png]"
  created: '2009-09-10 22:51:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I just realized something problematic: assuming this logo is\r\nmeant to
    last, that shape might become \"politically incorrect\"\r\nand/or old-fashioned
    very soon:\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/uk_news/8230544.stm\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-10 23:35:43'
- author:
    name: David Boni
    picture: 117710
  body: "Well, it will never be as old-fashioned as the current symbol that adorns
    the previous logo:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/old-apollo-logo_3614.png]\r\n\r\nAnd
    that article refers to people who cannot tolerate fluorescent lightbulbs because
    of multiple health reasons, so if I had used one of those, it'd be \"politically
    incorrect.\" It might also look like Hell at smaller sizes.\r\n\r\n..but I'd like
    to see a font based around how the current energy-saving bulbs twist around themselves.
    That would be cool."
  created: '2009-09-11 04:40:34'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: i would prefer that the base to the lightbulb not actually touch the O letterform.
    i think i'ld like to see the white space be able to move in and out of the bulb--having
    the base close to imply the relationship between the forms but far enough to say
    its a separate part of the bulb itself.
  created: '2009-09-11 13:19:54'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/apollo-final-rev_4465_5713.png]\r\n\r\nReally
    loving that direction.\r\n\r\nThe simplicity and your original concept combine
    pretty nicely.\r\n\r\nAlso prefer the stacking/hierarchy with APOLLO being the
    focus now.\r\n\r\nthough yeah it would be a nice inclusion to illustrate a forward
    thingking energy/lighting approach.\r\n\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul
    Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic Designer</a>
    - Melbourne"
  created: '2009-09-14 23:53:40'
- author:
    name: neverblink
    picture: 113022
  body: "I don't think you have to worry too much about the shape of the lightbulb
    being outdated soon, because the new(er) LED-lights basicly the same shape as
    the 'old fashioned' lightbulb.\r\n\r\nfor example: [[http://www.goodmart.com/images/prodimages/MaxLite/11194.jpg]]"
  created: '2009-09-15 10:16:31'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: David, what do you make of [[http://logopond.com/gallery/detail/79234|this]]
    ([[http://img89.imageshack.us/img89/7920/lumeenergy02.png|a copy]]) ? The guy
    says he made it for a client 5 months ago (yet he posted it only yesterday and
    he has only 3 logos in his logopond portfolio) and says it having the same shape
    of the ring is a pure "accident".
  created: '2009-09-30 21:52:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Might be a copy, but the guy does deserve credit for the superb font choice
    (or custom letter design) for \"LUME\". The font for \"energy\" and that stupid
    \"L\" inside the bulb have gotta go though.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-30 22:51:16'
- author:
    name: Bezier Abuser
    picture: 113727
  body: "My 2 cents:\r\nI prefer this version of the bulb (not the type):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/apollo-lighting-logo-small_5306_3897.png]\r\n\r\nand
    yes, it may create something strange at small sizes, but if you look at a light
    bulb more closely:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/light-bulb_5238.jpg]\r\n\r\nThe
    strings are oblique, not straight!"
  created: '2009-10-01 11:48:37'
- author:
    name: David Boni
    picture: 117710
  body: "I've just checked the shapes, and they match up fairly damn well.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sonofabitch_4331.jpg]\r\n\r\nBy
    the way, the guy's choice of font is the same that graphic designer <a href=\"http://www.davidairey.com/\">David
    Airey uses in his personal logo</a>. I've got no idea if what he designed is for
    a real company or not... frankly, I'm a bit amused. I uploaded my design in all
    sorts of areas like deviantART, Flickr, and this guy just recently uploads that
    piece of crap around the Internet and says it took him 5 months? Seriously?\r\n\r\nThe
    punch-out shape of the bulb with the tapered ends actual spawned from a revised
    uppercase G that I was trying to make look more \"like a lightbulb\" because of
    the feedback that I got from this very thread! Then I got a little too crazy and
    tried to make a completely different typeface that I think turned into a disaster.
    But for the sake of truth:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/beginning-of-lightbulb_6700.png]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/apollo-lighting-typeface-draft_4176.png]\r\n\r\nThanks
    to epsilicon for spotting the that. I'm definitely going to confront the dude
    but not at this time (it's my birthday). Should I be flattered or kind of pissed?"
  created: '2009-10-10 07:04:13'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "As for the first logo, I had no problem reading it because \"Apgllg\", \"Apcllc\"
    and \"liohtino\" are not words, so the mind automatically reads the words that
    do exist. I'm not sure how fast the minds of other people work, but I don't even
    need time to figure anything out; I read it right away. That being said, I do
    think it's a bad logo for two reasons:\r\n1) the light bulb isn't obvious enough\r\n2)
    repeating the concept 4 times also weakens the concept by the factor 4.\r\n\r\nI
    think the design with the sun is very aesthetic, but doesn't seem to breath the
    atmosphere that a company like this should breath.\r\n\r\nI think you pretty much
    nailed it in the third logo. I quite like the serif on the A and P, by the way.
    But I do have to conclude that it's a bit distracting, and on top of that it reminds
    me of the Prada logo. The tight, bold geometric serif-sans logo you selected is
    perfect. I think the \"lighting\" part should be a bit heavier though. Not as
    bold as [[http://typophile.com/files/apollo-lighting-logo-small_5306_3897.png|here]]
    though"
  created: '2010-01-01 08:45:22'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: Ahh I just saw on your website that you did select an appropriate weight for
    "lighting". Well done.
  created: '2010-01-01 08:47:50'
date: '2009-09-07 03:50:20'
node_type: forum
title: Logo for a lighting company

---
