---
author:
  name: miha
  picture: 114097
body: "It has x-height of 3 pixels, it is italic, inspired by old masters and most
  important \u2013 made by hand. You must not look too closely, because colors get
  visible. It's work in progress. Here:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sbpx_3996.png]\r\nI
  am also writing a program which will set text automatically. These horizontal lines
  in the picture is actually information about glyph unicode value and positioning.\r\n\r\nIt
  can be used in favicons and for \u2026 well, one reason is enough :-)\r\n\r\nScroll
  down for additional weights of roman, <strong>bold</strong> & <em><strong>bold italic</strong></em>.\r\n\r\nThe
  title was \"First Handmade Subpixel Type Family, Ever*\".\r\n[* Moderator's note:
  Miha's enthusiastic use of the claim \"first ever\" has been seriously challenged
  by StoneCypher. Read on for the drama and sub-pixel intrigue, if you dare!]\r\n\r\nPS:
  [[http://mrl.nyu.edu/~perlin/homepage2006/tinyfont/index.html|Ken Perlin's work]]
  is interesting too."
comments:
- author:
    name: inni
  body: It's the bees knees!
  created: '2009-09-12 18:46:59'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "This is impressive. It *is* legible (I even found a typo ;-) ).\r\nFWIW,
    the \"B\" and especially \"D\" look decidedly blue to me.\r\n\r\nSo, why an italic?
    Did you actually find it easier to make an italic than an upright font at this
    sort of size?"
  created: '2009-09-12 18:59:21'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Interesting how the lowercase s and z require descenders to work with a 3-pixel
    x-height.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-09-12 19:13:35'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "Piotr, thank you and welcome to Typophile. I think you just found a name
    for the font!\r\n\r\nNina, \"e\" is not done yet (it's copied \"c\") and this
    is why there are typos :-D. But I agree about glyphs being too blue, I have to
    correct them. As a consequence the counter will be darker.\r\n\r\nItalic was chosen
    because the benefits of subpixel design are the most prominent. There just can't
    be a normal pixel font (in italic) and with such or even higher x-height \u2013
    and still looking remotely as good.\r\nWell I think italic is actually harder
    to do, but there are nicer glyphs possible! (\"f\", \"z\", upright parentheses,
    etc)\r\n\r\nWell, 3-pixel x-height is certainly interesting! Small caps are going
    to be hard to do :-D\r\n\r\n(Oh, and if you asking yourself why are there two
    lines of numbers. First line are old-style numerals, second will be lining.)"
  created: '2009-09-12 19:41:46'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: I didn't know png could hold subpixel information. What kind of software do
    you use?
  created: '2009-09-12 21:20:39'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "I use Photoshop \u2013 when you see one pixel enlarged, you can control just
    its one color. But if you were watching physical pixel very closely (with microscope)
    you could find its three subpixels were changing. This thing is possible because
    of hardware. Specifically, this works only on LCD screens.\r\n\r\nWhen you mix
    a color for one pixel, you use three sliders: each slider is actually for one
    subpixel. The tricky part is that you have to imagine color components, because
    full pixel colors which are displayed are confusing.\r\n(Read about it on <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Subpixel_rendering\">Wikipedia</a>
    and <a href=\"http://www.grc.com/cleartype.htm\">here</a>.)\r\n\r\nI was thinking
    more why I started italic and not roman. I think because of all beautiful color
    patterns at 1600%. Also a little suprising fact, maybe: in all lowercase letters
    there are <em>only three gray pixels</em> (and all three are in \"z\")! Else are
    colors. Evenmore: in italic, there are no spaces between letters visible at 1600%.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ipsum_3674.png]\r\nThis
    typeface is best seen on monitors with higher PPI (I have 133)."
  created: '2009-09-12 21:58:00'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "The possibility of subpixel lettering isn't exactly exclusive to LCD monitors,
    but they certainly help.\r\n\r\nLong ago I used to do subpixel editing for graphics
    in Pinball Construction Set on the Apple ][, including lettering with a technique
    not entirely unlike what is shown here. Back then, though, it was the limitations
    of the graphics system, including the relatively low screen resolution that made
    it possible, though crude, on a CRT monitor."
  created: '2009-09-13 00:35:29'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: The Atari home computer systems (late '70s/early '80s) used a similar system
    with the character set. The "high res" graphics mode actually addressed half a
    "color clock" on color tv screens. To get a fully white dot on a black background,
    you had to plot two adjacent coordinates. Otherwise you would get a red or blue
    dot. You could also get solid red or solid blue by plotting only the odd or even
    coordinates. It worked very similar to the Apple II. In fact, Pinball Construction
    Set was able to be ported to the Atari with very little modification because of
    this (not to mention the fact that they had the same microprocessor).
  created: '2009-09-13 00:54:21'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "Oh, and I was sure this is the first such font. Well maybe it is the first
    for LCD screens.\r\n\r\nI have worked some more on it. I added a normal weight,
    which was much more easier to create than italic. Of course, it's clearly \u2026
    or not so clearly not finished.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sbpx_5884.png]"
  children:
  - author:
      name: oatsgoats
    body: "You said \" Oh, and I was sure this is the first such font. Well maybe
      it is the first for LCD screens.\"\r\n\r\n\r\nAre you kidding me?? You invested
      time and energy into the basis of what already exists? You have these titles
      of profession in your profile - yet it doesn't add up ! I can say I'm a plumber
      if I can put some pipes together properly - if you want to play these games.
      \  Maybe you should do 2 minutes of historical research on development of modern
      digital typefaces and the technology they are displayed by (crt / lcd / plasma
      / phosphor)  before you come to the conclusion what you are doing is BASIC research
      when adapting - calibrating for technology and general accessibility of  computer
      users. You are backwards in your logic and do not commend your lack of observational
      ability. It's not a first! It's astounding to me you would truly think you made
      this up.   \r\n\r\nBUT - you said it best about your approach  \" I would be
      a perfectionist if I wasn\u2019t so lazy.\" That's even pushing things. To be
      a perfectionist would imply you understand fundamentals.   \r\n\r\nWhat is your
      intended application of such tiny fonts - ? I look around and people even in
      their 20's are wearing eyeglasses due to poor eyesight - and people over 40
      have a hard time even with newspapers... is this for the micro version of Iphone
      tech? But funny thing is they are pushing now a larger iphone - going to the
      ipad size. Oh - right for the i-watch. Regardless this is redundant and pointless
      as others already have this perfected if needed in application. \r\n\r\nWhat
      I find equally disturbing is your audience just laps it up readily. Amazing
      lack of basics happening with all this available information. Oh but I must
      remember -the information most are lapping up - is what is channeled to them
      from their personal google robot aggregator. Old stuff is for the dust bin -
      right? "
    created: '2014-09-24 22:35:16'
  created: '2009-09-13 18:12:11'
- author:
    name: sgh
    picture: 111405
  body: "This is really cool!\r\n\r\nHow did you decide how to choose the pixel colors
    to address the subpixels?  Are you using the [1/9,2/9,3/9,2/9,1/9] filter described
    by Steve Gibson in the link you mentioned above?\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-14 00:22:58'
- author:
    name: brockfrench
    picture: 113153
  body: I am amused and impressed.
  created: '2009-09-14 03:37:57'
- author:
    name: mekka
    picture: 114851
  body: 'Isn''t the hardware going to pose a problem? I mean, the color LED arrangement
    is not always R-G-B, there''s also R-B-G and diagonal arrangements etc. '
  created: '2009-09-14 11:57:22'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "Believe me, I am amused myself :-). Specially when thinking whether it's
    worth to do monospaced numerals, case-sensitive parentheses and such.\r\n\r\nSome
    colors were copied form Windows rendering and maybe mixed further (I have saved
    them in palette a very long time ago).  I have five shades of both blue and red
    and three grays, but it's more important how you combine these colors.\r\n\r\nIn
    italic, stem is just a little less than 1 pixel wide. It is mostly presented with
    two pixels of red and blue: sometimes, it's dark red & light blue (pixel seems
    to be more on left); dark blue & light red (pixel seems to be more on the right);
    or both pixels of equal lightness. Actually I use this mentioned filter, but more
    from experience.\r\n\r\nItalic glyphs always start with red and end with blue,
    because this way they can be set in words together without problems. For some
    glyphs, such as en dash, 70% (or less) gray color is used.\r\n\r\nHardware may
    be a problem, but most LCDs have the same positioning of subpixels."
  created: '2009-09-14 12:39:37'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: Very impressive!
  created: '2009-09-14 16:28:08'
- author:
    name: outrasfontes
    picture: 112120
  body: I'm also very impressed! The roman looks surprisingly legible on that size.
    I think the "s" with a descender would disturb the reading process a little bit.
  created: '2009-09-14 19:31:00'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Nicely done.\r\n\r\nHas anyone built a chart that shows the relation between
    the specific colors needed to trigger the individual combination of sub-pixels?
    \r\n"
  created: '2009-09-14 19:54:24'
- author:
    name: mads
    picture: 110453
  body: Amazing work.
  created: '2009-09-14 19:54:25'
- author:
    name: chrstphrknwtn
  body: It would be interesting to see if legibility is different for a colour blind
    person.
  created: '2009-09-14 19:58:32'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'Just a hunch, but colorblindness might improve legibility. The colors (I
    assume) are used to trigger a combination of the 3 sub-pixels. '
  created: '2009-09-14 20:06:21'
- author:
    name: outrasfontes
    picture: 112120
  body: Maybe 4 pixels in x-height could be also a good experiment. The "e" baseline
    alignment would be probably impossible using 3 of them.
  created: '2009-09-14 21:36:42'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "Thank you for your kind comments! I had similar feelings, this is why I hurried
    and just had to post the typeface even with some glyphs not done.\r\n\r\nDarrel:
    You can start by reading the two links I posted above and then study The bee's
    knees in detail. If you look at italic <em>l</em> or <em>[</em> you will notice
    how pixels start to repeat and how diagonals are made.\r\n\r\nI think legibility
    is the same or just minutely better for colour blind people. There was already
    discussion of this on Typophile, but some arguments were not even mentioned (for
    example, various combinations of color blindness type and text color give different
    legibility).\r\n\r\nI decided to make the hard glyphs on the end \u2026 my excuse
    is until I finish program for automatic layout I can't quickly enough test them.
    Indeed the \"e\" and \"s\" are the most problematic. Maybe I can help with a <em>two</em>
    pixels x-height font? (<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/51521#comment-311880\">here</a>)"
  created: '2009-09-14 22:46:22'
- author:
    name: chrstphrknwtn
  body: 'I just had a colour blind friend check it out and he confirms it is legible,
    and made the same suggestion that the condition may improve legibility.  Probably
    one of the very few occasions where colour blindness could be of use.  '
  created: '2009-09-15 04:08:32'
- author:
    name: Steve Ross
    picture: 113351
  body: Very interesting. When I look at the large, magnified .png above, it is illegible
    until I sit back and squint, thereby reducing the size and colour factor. Great
    work.
  created: '2009-09-15 07:17:49'
- author:
    name: geenius
    picture: 115291
  body: "Amazed by the 3px x-height! Really impressive work, congratulations! :)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-15 09:45:46'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "Adding some experimental bold weight (there could be bold and black weight)
    and some glyphs of <strong><em>bold italic</em></strong>, which will be as interesting
    to create as italic. Well, I chose to make additional weights first instead of
    mastering italic and roman.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sbpx2_5653.gif]\r\nThis
    image is actually a new font format :-)"
  created: '2009-09-15 14:16:19'
- author:
    name: John Lyttle
    picture: 117549
  body: It couldn't be any more different from David Farey's [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/adobe/itc-beesknees/|Beesknees]]
    so I don't think anyone would confuse the two, but you may wish to rethink the
    name of the typeface to avoid arm wrestling with ITC, Monotype, Linotype and Adobe.
  created: '2009-09-15 16:28:57'
- author:
    name: o00o
  body: Wow! that works distubingly good.
  created: '2009-09-15 16:38:11'
- author:
    name: gingerbeardman
    picture: 118013
  body: "Just registered here to say that I think this is great. Well done! Keep up
    the great work.\r\n\r\nps: on the latest images, I see some background colour
    that is not quite white, especially around the lowercase italic m,n,o"
  created: '2009-09-15 17:44:48'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "Thank you for the tip, John, I really should checked this before \u2026 although
    there are small differences in names I think I will change it. Truthfully I didn't
    think a lot about it before. So, any suggestions? It could be deviant and represent
    something physically very small :-)\r\n\r\nIngrid, Matt, welcome to Typophile!\r\n(there
    is indeed this not-really-white color, but unluckily not only there\u2026)"
  created: '2009-09-15 18:09:26'
- author:
    name: Tonamel
  body: "\"tnyfnt - a font so compact, we had to get rid of all the vowels in the
    name.\" ;)\r\n\r\nIt looks lovely, and is shockingly readable. Great work!"
  created: '2009-09-15 21:04:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: You could call it 'The Bis Nis', which could be read as either beesknees or
    business.
  created: '2009-09-15 21:41:43'
- author:
    name: borisforconi
    picture: 116045
  body: Really breathtaking. Keep going, I've never seen anything like this before.
  created: '2009-09-15 22:44:50'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: You could call it [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anton_Van_Leeuwenhoek|Antonie]].
  created: '2009-09-15 23:01:31'
- author:
    name: gojomo
  body: Fleas' Knees?
  created: '2009-09-15 23:43:44'
- author:
    name: gingerbeardman
    picture: 118013
  body: "Thanks for the welcome! I've already made a few blog posts on here ;)\r\n\r\nI
    was chatting to a friend about this earlier and they said that there have been
    sub-pixel fonts on Nintendo DS for some time now (before 2005). Mainly on the
    homebrew scene, where they are used to fit more text on screen (text viewer, nethack
    game). They don't look as cool as yours, though! I am yet to see them first-hand
    on a DS.\r\n\r\nhttp://gbax.gp2x.de/gbax2005.html\r\nhttp://ds.qj.net/Textviewer-for-the-NDS/pg/49/aid/1520\r\nhttp://stuartp.commixus.com/nhds/\r\n\r\nps:
    in Photoshop you can use the selection tool (with zero or low tolerance) and the
    \"similar\" menu command to select all the not-quite-white... if you want to change
    it to real-white."
  created: '2009-09-16 01:16:30'
- author:
    name: johnnydib
    picture: 116018
  body: "Firmin Didot would've loved that ornamented specimen :D\r\nThe lining figure
    1 is ambiguous the old style one is awesome though.\r\nIs there a font format
    that supports colour?"
  created: '2009-09-16 02:52:42'
- author:
    name: Chandler.
  body: "Amazing work. I have never seen this before; really cool concept. \r\n\r\nas
    for the name, I think mites are pretty small. 'Mite-y' or 'mite-sized' or something..."
  created: '2009-09-16 08:12:34'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"mites\"</cite>\r\n<a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Acarina\">Acarina</a>
    sounds pretty good.\r\nOr maybe a small venomous spider? <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Envia_garciai\">Envia</a>,
    <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mouse_spider\">Missulena</a>? (There's
    more <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spider#Taxonomy\">here</a>.)"
  created: '2009-09-16 10:02:02'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "Thank you all for the suggestions! I was combining some names and made names
    such as <em>The lengthy legs of little bees</em>, <em>Antonie van Leeuwenhoek's
    type</em>, <em>Lawyer's fineprint</em>, <code><em>sbpx_fnt</em></code> and <em>Micrommata
    virescens' diary font</em> (also possible <em>Zilla diodia's diary font</em> etc).
    Hard to choose one!\r\n\r\nJohnny, this lining 1 is already on my to-do list :-)
    I chose to do such specimen (actually, this is font format, specimen will contain
    some short text!) because it nicely contrasts with new technology. The mix of
    old & new.\r\n\r\nAbout this font being the first [subpixel] hand made \u2026
    well maybe just bold italic is the first one? Here is the lowercase, still having
    troubles with <em><strong>e</strong></em>, <em><strong>s</strong></em> and this
    time also spacing:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bitalic_4162.gif]"
  created: '2009-09-16 15:19:48'
- author:
    name: evank
    picture: 118025
  body: "This is really amazing work.  Being somewhat graphically challenged myself
    -- and having tried to create readable favicons in the past -- I am just blown
    away by how readable it is.\r\n\r\nI would definitely like to make use of this...Any
    idea what kind of license you'll be releasing it under?  (Creative Commons, etc)"
  created: '2009-09-16 17:33:33'
- author:
    name: merraksh
  body: 'The enlarged image posted by miha suggests that it could be an effective
    captcha: I could only read "ipsum dolor" only at a distance and by crossing my
    eyes (and it looked black and white...). I wonder what a bot would have to do...
    Did you ever experiment with this?'
  created: '2009-09-16 18:33:45'
- author:
    name: ironmaus
  body: I support 100% "Flea's Knees" as the cutest mini-"Bee's Knees" name.
  created: '2009-09-16 18:56:50'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "Evan, I think I am going to release it under free* license (not yet, it is
    not finished). I know this has a drawback of a lot of potential misuses, but anyway.
    I also think I could sell it as well if I wanted, but its use is very limited
    \u2013 only for screen, only for small amounts of text.** Furthermore, it did
    take some time to create it, but time is not even remotely comparable to time
    spent drawing \"normal\" typefaces.\r\n\r\n*CC, No Derivative Works & modified
    Attribution.\r\n** I know creating bold and bold italic may be a sign of text
    typeface, but I just like doing it :-)\r\n\r\nOf course, there will be a small
    Flash app to set text. But be patient :-P\r\n\r\nAbout using it as a captcha:
    since letters start to repeat, it would't be so good.\r\n\r\nBTW, welcome to Typophile,
    Evan, P.B. and Matthew."
  created: '2009-09-16 19:43:34'
- author:
    name: jwr
  body: "This is very impressive, congratulations!\r\n\r\nI have two monitors, one
    of which is rotated 90deg to the right. As expected, the font does not display
    as well on that rotated monitor. I was actually surprised it was readable at all!\r\n\r\nI
    don't know that the pixel ordering in these panels is.\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-16 20:15:28'
- author:
    name: hans
  body: "Bee's Knees is a FANTASTIC name for this font. Kudos for thinking of that
    when Piotr posted.\r\n\r\nBut please, in the name of taste, not \"The Bis Nis\"
    - ewww.\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-16 20:47:58'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "ah! jwr brings up an interesting issue with sub-pixel smoothing. I imagine
    that could be a big issue on iPhones. \r\n"
  created: '2009-09-16 21:51:34'
- author:
    name: sveinn
    picture: 115300
  body: "I'm sorry if I'm pissing on the bonfire, but it looks just like the Mac OS
    X font rendering.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/osxsubpixel_6156.png]\r\nThat
    is Gill Sans Italic Size 6, in TextEdit"
  created: '2009-09-16 22:37:35'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: "Uh, there's a pretty big difference between first subpixel font ever and
    first one you're aware of.  I hate to be the one to break it to you, but the Apple
    ][gs shipped with one in ROM; you missed this boat by more than 30 years.\r\n\r\nThe
    GameBoy Advance homebrew development community has been using them actively for
    more than ten years.  I released a program that automatically dumped SPAA fonts
    for the GBA in probably 2003 or so.  My old webpage has a 3xV (typically 2) font
    on it - significantly smaller than yours.\r\n\r\nPlease don't claim first ever
    when you haven't even tried looking to see if someone beat you to it.  There are
    three bitmapped subpixel fonts on the first page of google hits for subpixel font.\r\n\r\nThis
    isn't actually impressive at all; the font on the GRC page from ten years ago
    looks just as good as this does.  This is just a two-filter matrix applied to
    a larger font.  Big whoop.\r\n\r\nYou'll find people get really bitter when you
    claim to have beaten them to the punch on something that's actually 30+ years
    old.\r\n\r\nIt's dishonest.\r\n\r\nJohn Haugeland is http://fullof.bs/"
  created: '2009-09-16 22:40:51'
- author:
    name: Pasquale
    picture: 118034
  body: This is outstandingly neat
  created: '2009-09-16 22:43:12'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "Sveinn: It looks better than I thought. Although I disagree: it looks worse
    (no dots on i, j; unreadable E, F and s if not set in context; no counter in B,
    8 and maybe R). What about bold italic?\r\n\r\nJohn Haugeland: I am very sorry
    if I was dishonest, I had no such intentions. There was actually a comment about
    being first one already and I suggested that maybe this is first such font for
    LCD screens (unlike Apple II). I also did a google search, but I found only automatically
    rendered subpixel fonts. Only later there was a comment that it is indeed not
    the first font \u2026 But is this the first font family? With roman, bold, italic
    and bold italic? (this is the most basic font family) I changed title to this.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    I would love to see some examples of your (or someone else) hand-made subpixel
    typefaces.\r\n\r\n\u201C<em>the font on the GRC page from ten years ago looks
    just as good as this does</em>\u201D\r\nIf you mean typeface used in menu, well,
    its x-height is more than twice bigger than mine. Not fair to compare."
  created: '2009-09-17 00:18:59'
- author:
    name: squidbilly
    picture: 118036
  body: "Sooooo miha is dishonest for not thoroughly researching some obscure font
    that hasn't been in use for over a decade that no one has ever heard of?! Call
    the cops! He's a thief! Oh puh-leeze... \r\n\r\nFact is, this is brilliant work.
    It's perfectly fine that it may be copied work (or derived from another work),
    even if he was not aware of the prior works. He's not selling it as original art,
    but if he does, he would be fine there too because it IS original work. And besides,
    it's a typeface, not the Mona Lisa (sorry miha, it's good but not a priceless
    work of art).\r\n\r\nOne point to keep in mind is that there are usability considerations
    when using this typeface online. Just be careful what you use it for. Using it
    to depict thumbnails of documents or text: GOOD. Using it to render your entire
    blog post: BAD.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-17 00:44:04'
- author:
    name: tupper
  body: "I love it! The colour fringing certainly brings back memories of the 8-bit
    days.\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-17 00:59:23'
- author:
    name: caf
  body: "It looks good (although I see noticeable \"rainbowing\" on most glyphs, particularly
    on '<' and lower-case 'v' and 'w').\r\n\r\nIt'd be very useful for mobile phones
    with the little ~3cm x ~5cm screens - you should see if Opera and Google are interested
    for the mobile Java versions of Opera Browser and Google Maps."
  created: '2009-09-17 01:41:16'
- author:
    name: Cjoez
  body: Registered just to say I'm red-green colourblind and I can read it easily,
    from right up to the screen to about 1.5m away. :)
  created: '2009-09-17 02:20:11'
- author:
    name: Henry Birdseye
  body: "Amazing, Miha. We are working on kind of the same thing.\r\n\r\nhttp://henrybirdseye.tv/art/legos/legos.html\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-17 02:46:33'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Firmin Didot would\u2019ve loved that ornamented specimen</em>\r\n\r\nI
    was thinking more Fournier. Actually, the proportions and slant of the italic
    also suggest Fournier to me. Congratulations on the first manual subpixel French
    neo-classical type."
  created: '2009-09-17 03:08:58'
- author:
    name: DevilsAvacado
  body: Isn't any font "subpixel" if it's anti-aliased?
  created: '2009-09-17 04:02:30'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: "DevilsAdvocado: no.  Subpixel antialiasing is the practice of using the independant
    color channels in the pixel as if they were distinct grayscale positions, instead
    of using them as color, in order to triple the effective horizontal resolution
    (assuming a standard three-band arrangement like one finds in most LCD, plasma
    and OLED monitors), along with a little math hokey pokey to prevent color fringing.\r\n\r\nYou
    can see the difference by zooming way in on a screenshot of traditional AA and
    subpixel AA.  The subpixel AA has colored edges because it's using the physical
    position of color channels like a mask, which the eye can sort out when it's at
    scale.  There's an earlier post on this same blog about the youtube favicon; that's
    an example of the effect (the newer one, which is nicer, has colored edges because
    they're the rightmost and leftmost channel - red or blue respectively - being
    turned off to get graceful curves.\r\n\r\nIt's the difference between old style
    anti-aliasing and ClearType, if you're a windows user; ClearType is Microsoft's
    sub-pixel technology.\r\n\r\nIf you're interested, here's a pretty good beginners'
    tutorial.  http://www.grc.com/ctwhat.htm\r\n\r\nSubpixel antialiasing isn't actually
    antialiasing; it's a different addressing mechanism for physical screen positions.
    \ Boolean SPAA looks better than most antialiasing, but you can mix antialiasing
    with SPAA (that is, in that GRC tutorial, use the narrow grid but then use grayscale
    anyway) and get really gorgeous results.\r\n\r\nThe downside is the math for that
    is moderately expensive, because you have to do some filtering (usually a 1-2-3-2-1
    filter) to get it to work, so if you're working on an embedded or portable device,
    you can expect slow results or large battery draw or both, depending on the device.\r\n\r\nBut
    it's totally worth it.\r\n\r\nJohn Haugeland is http://fullof.bs/"
  created: '2009-09-17 04:15:10'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: "<strong>Squidbilly</strong>\r\n\"<cite>Sooooo miha is dishonest for not thoroughly
    researching some obscure font that hasn\u2019t been in use for over a decade that
    no one has ever heard of?</cite>\"\r\n\r\nNo, Miha is dishonest for claiming first
    ever without having put in any serious effort to find out whether that's true.
    \ (I maintain that not google searching the simplest possible phrase, subpixel
    font, is evidence that no serious effort was put in.)\r\n\r\nDon't worry, Erly,
    I know yew kin't reed tew gud-like.  I'll try to speak slower when you're around
    next time.  (Miha: it's a reference to the television show from whence he draws
    his username and icon, not slander.)\r\n\r\n<strong>Miha</strong>\r\n<ol><li>\"<cite>I
    am very sorry if I was dishonest, I had no such intentions.</cite>\"\r\n\r\nI
    realize that.  The reason for the journalistic precept of not making sweeping
    statements without researching them first is to prevent unintentional dishonesty
    from still making one dishonest.  Notably, your blog entry's title has not yet
    changed, nor has yet the text been amended; noting a wrong as intentional doesn't
    mean you shouldn't still clean it up.</li>\r\n\r\n<li>\"<cite>I suggested that
    maybe this is first such font for LCD screens</cite>\"\r\n\r\nWell, you'd be wrong
    there too.  Hence the bit about \"please try checking before making the claim.\"
    \ Don't worry, Dorothy, you'll get there.  Eventually.\r\n\r\nThe Apple Newton
    and the Palm III both had SPAA color fonts.  Incidentally, your font isn't for
    LCD screens; it's for right-bar screens.  Many screens that aren't LCD are right-bar,
    and many LCD screens aren't right-bar.  For example, the two screens on the Nintendo
    DS, which have had SPAA fonts in commercial use for nearly five years, are aligned
    differently to save on cable length, so your font doesn't apply to one of (I think
    the top, but forget) those screens.\r\n\r\nI'm sure there are earlier examples
    of LCD screens SPAA fonts, but I'm not a fontologist with a domain name that implies
    a deep familiarity with type, so I can only think of about a dozen counter-examples
    off of the top of my head.  (Without research, the gameboy advance, the nintendo
    ds, the palm 3 and all following it, windows mobile both as bitmap and as cleartype,
    my apple iphone, the sega nomad, the apple newton, the google android, my canon
    vixie hf-200 camcorder's screen, the cybiko in monochrome, the Sony PSP, the Game
    Park GP-32 and all following it, and just to make it a baker's dozen, let's say
    the Nintendo DSi is a different machine than the DS.)\r\n\r\nBut that's cool:
    if you don't know enough about the thing you're saying \"first ever\" in public
    about to think of those dozen plus obvious examples off the top of your head,
    there's always research.\r\n\r\nTry it some time.</li>\r\n\r\n<li>\"<cite>I also
    did a google search</cite>\"\r\n\r\nWow, one whole google search?  That must have
    taken ages; I can see why you'd be surprised that such thoroughness might come
    up empty handed.\r\n\r\nSo far I've been unable to think of a reasonable google
    search which doesn't find an example in the first two pages.  Let's call it Google
    Anti-golf.\r\n\r\nWhat search did you use, please?  I'm unable to replicate your
    failure even at the single attempt level.  (Note the lack of pluralization in
    order to help you understand the quality and diligence of your research before
    declaring a world first, by the way.  It's instructive.  And hilarious.  But mostly
    instructive.)\r\n\r\nIf you didn't look at the second page of results, then it's
    a little easier to find queries that might fail; I've tried around 40 so far,
    and two have so far failed to give a first page result.\r\n\r\nAnd as we all know,
    there are only in fact ten things on the web, so looking at a second page before
    declaring a world first would be a waste of time.</li>\r\n\r\n<li>\"<cite>but
    I found only automatically rendered subpixel fonts.</cite>\"\r\n\r\nWell, that's
    curious.  They're not hard to find.  For example, my old website, sc.tri-bit.com,
    has four rendered PNGs of complete SPAA fonts in every flag combination of [bold,
    italic, underline, strike-through] (16 renders per font per size) at about half
    a dozen sizes per font, covering the entire publically released microsoft T series
    (tahoma etc), V series (verdana etc) and C series (candara etc).\r\n\r\nI mean
    it's not like they're on a page rank six blog too, or anything.  Really, really
    hard to find stuff.\r\n\r\nAnd I mean, in the two minutes it took me to stop sadbear
    laughing, I found about a dozen bitmap SPAA rendered fonts in things like FLTK
    and older projects from SWAG.\r\n\r\nOne of my font renders was the default font
    in the linux shell compiled for the Nintendo DS, last time I looked, if I remember
    correctly (if I'm wrong, Pepsiman will set me straight, but I think he was using
    one of my Consolas renders.)\r\n\r\nSo yeah.  I guess you looked pretty hard,
    huh?</li>\r\n\r\n<li>\"<cite>Only later there was a comment that it is indeed
    not the first font</cite>\"\r\n\r\nYeah, generally people can't leave comments
    about the wrongness of a claim to a world first before the claim is published.
    \ \"Only later\" is a side effect of our not being able to see web articles through
    time.  You know, not being John Pertwee, it's a little hard to rustle up that
    kind of defiance of physics just to get some luls in on a blog.</li>\r\n</ol>\r\n\r\nPlease
    amend the article and title (and this doesn't mean to a third wrong guess, this
    means to something simple and factual like \"my first subpixel bitmap font\").
    \ The mistake is excusable; to err is human.  Making a new false guess claim after
    your last false guess claim didn't work out isn't fixing an error, it's repeating
    an error.\r\n\r\nSubpixel fonts are nothing new.  They're 30 years old in a field
    with a 40 year consumer presence.  You aren't getting a first here.  Stop pretending,
    please.\r\n\r\n-\r\n\r\nJohn Haugeland is http://fullof.bs/"
  created: '2009-09-17 04:35:39'
- author:
    name: neoarch
  body: so when can I put this on my eeepc?
  created: '2009-09-17 04:40:57'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: "Miha: here's some of the extremely easily available documentation of your
    \"first\" for you, showing where Apple was implementing it in 1976 (so 33 years
    right there).  Amusingly, it's a right-bar system on a CRT, because none of this
    has anything to do with LCDs, only with the physical color bar arrangement.\r\n\r\nOh,
    and it's on the first non-wikipedia site to come up on Google for subpixel.\r\n\r\nOh,
    and it's linked to on every single page, using the link text \"the true origins
    of these ideas.\"\r\n\r\nOh, and he cedes that he has no idea where it comes from,
    despite having been involved with it probably before you were born and having
    seen it in use at Apple, IBM, Xerox, Microsoft and Koala.  Because he doesn't
    have time to do the research.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.grc.com/ctwho.htm\r\n\r\n<strong><em>Research</strong></em>.\r\n\r\nSeriously,
    this information could not be any easier to find if it was nailed to your door
    by Martin Luther himself with a knife and a blood signature.\r\n\r\nAnd GPS."
  created: '2009-09-17 04:47:07'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: 'NeoArch: your EEEpc already does this.'
  created: '2009-09-17 04:47:29'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: "Oh, also:\r\n\r\n<cite>When you mix a color for one pixel, you use three
    sliders: each slider is actually for one subpixel.</cite>\r\n\r\nYeah, this isn't
    actually correct.  This is correct when-and-only-when Photoshop's color model
    matches the monitor's color model.  PNG has color model adjustment because that's
    essentially never true; even disregarding things like color temperature, the color
    base constants aren't actually fixed points, but rather chosen points in a range,
    and many manufacturers use subtly different colors (which is why photoshop has
    all that color registration stuff, so that different monitors working on adjacent
    projects wouldn't cause clashing results.)  That has to do with what the underlying
    chemistry of the dyes used to mask the LEDs, dope the phosphors or light the OLED/Plasma
    are, and are the reason why certain manufacturers have such better performance
    in certain color ranges.\r\n\r\nThis is why Samsung makes a five channel monitor,
    too.\r\n\r\nWhat you tried to say was:\r\n\r\n\"In a three color colorspace, the
    color output value can be used as a lightness control when thinking of the subpixels
    as grayscale values rather than chrominances.  This is compounded by the fact
    that I'm working in Photoshop, which is going to screw with the colors I output
    in ways I apparently don't understand, which is why I'm having such difficulty
    with straight lines.  But that's cool, because everyone's monitor is just like
    mine, which is why my LCD font looks wrong on about 20% of LCDs, and works on
    lots of CRTs and OLEDs and so on.\"\r\n\r\nStop using PNG for SPAA unless you're
    going to learn colorspaces, which are hard for color scientists (no, that's really
    a job), so you won't.  Photoshop and PNG conspire to try to fix your work in colorspace,
    which is usually a good idea but murderous to SPAA.  Switch to Targa or TIFF instead.
    \ PNG is lossless in a lot more ways than pixel values, and you actually want
    colorspace channel loss here, because otherwise it screws with your per-pixel
    calibration.\r\n\r\nIncidentally, a photoshop user should be intimately familiar
    with that colorspaces don't match, that photoshop colorspace isn't monitor colorspace
    even when the names match, and that photoshop can switch between colorspaces within
    a single document, so those sliders obviously aren't subpixel values."
  created: '2009-09-17 04:59:08'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: "Here's X11 doing it in 1987: http://keithp.com/~keithp/subpixel/\r\n\r\nJohn
    Haugeland is http://fullof.bs/"
  created: '2009-09-17 05:07:22'
- author:
    name: osteele
  body: 'I love this!  Here''s my little homage: a jQuery plugin to replace text on
    a page by characters from this font -- incomplete, impractical, and probably not
    compatible with very many browsers, but hopefully fun. [[http://osteele.com/sources/javascript/jquery.subpixelate/]] '
  created: '2009-09-17 05:35:37'
- author:
    name: jsimmons
  body: "Wow, StoneCypher is on a mission LOL.\r\n\r\nHe did this by hand in Photoshop,
    it doesn't matter if X11 did it in 87, ClearType does it now. He does it by hand.
    Are we seeing the difference here? I can barely appreciate the genuinely interesting
    things you had to say about color because you're so wrapped up in your bad attitude."
  created: '2009-09-17 06:02:07'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Isn\u2019t any font \u201Csubpixel\u201D if it\u2019s anti-aliased?\"\r\n\r\nIt's
    rendered that way, though that info isn't necessarily a part of the font.\r\n\r\nmiha
    is pretty much hand-hinting letterforms specifically for optimized sub-pixel rendering
    at an x-height of 3px. So that's not the same as just letting the font-smoothing
    software do it for you. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-17 06:22:50'
- author:
    name: neoarch
  body: 'StoneCypher: maybe so, but it doesn''t look quite as good as these imo. my
    font size only goes down to 6 for most fonts.'
  created: '2009-09-17 07:19:33'
- author:
    name: dontbugme
    picture: 110809
  body: "StoneCypher: Six consecutive posts to snipe at someone's work is at least
    six too many. You've dragged the intelligence level of the whole site down by
    a full order of magnitude by subjecting us all to your verbal abuse of miha. Talent,
    which miha has clearly manifested in spades, trumps moral self-righteousness.
    It's a f**ing website, not a court of law. You pretty clearly created an account
    here specifically to put miha in his/her place, to accomplish what?\r\n\r\nGrow
    up and let someone have a moment to enjoy being rightfully impressed with themselves
    for pulling off an impressive feat. Next you'll be telling kindergarteners that
    Santa Claus isn't real just to watch them cry.\r\n\r\nBtw, what you <strong>tried</strong>
    to spell in your first post was \"independ<strong>E</strong>nt.\"\r\n\r\n<strong>Spellchecker.</strong>
    \r\n\r\nSo easy, you don't even have to DO anything. You just wait for the little
    red line to show you that you're dumb. If you're going to be a pedantic pain in
    the arse, at least do us the favor of being impeccable yourself.\r\n\r\nPlease
    amend your post by typing out \"I will not misspell independent\" twenty times."
  created: '2009-09-17 08:21:24'
- author:
    name: dontbugme
    picture: 110809
  body: Would you like to verify for us that these previous subpixel fonts are in
    fact handmade, like miha's? My google finger is too tired to check.
  created: '2009-09-17 08:25:54'
- author:
    name: Chandler.
  body: aaaannd in comes StoneCypher with the Bonerkill...
  created: '2009-09-17 09:55:02'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "John Haugeland: You wrote such a lenghty posts, <em>but I am still missing
    an example of handmade subpixel font</em>. [other than for Apple II]*\r\n\r\nWhen
    I said \"first subpixel typeface, ever\" I meant a handmade typeface \u2013 because
    \"pixel fonts\" are handmade and most obviously, fonts are rendered with subpixel
    technology for millions of users for a years now. How on earth could mine typeface
    be the first one that is \"rendered\" using subpixels?\r\n\r\n\u201C<cite>Because
    he [I] doesn\u2019t have time to do the research. http://www.grc.com/ctwho.htm</cite>\u201D\r\nDid
    you even read my post earlier in this thread? I already gave the link to this
    wonderful website, which BTW doesn't mention hand-optimised subpixel fonts.\r\n\r\n\u201C<cite>unless
    you\u2019re going to learn colorspaces</cite>\u201D\r\nActually I already know
    about it a lot. I had one semester of <em>Color mesauring</em> and another of
    <em>Color managament</em>. Also, I had an assignment for <em>Color managament
    in Photoshop</em>. Believe me, I know what I am doing. A single statement on which
    you based your whole comment was simplified. Ironically, your comment about color
    managament is simplified too.\r\n\r\n\r\nOliver, can you add a license information
    that generated images are released under this license: [[http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nd/2.5/si/|CC
    by-nd 2.5]] with an addition that all generated images will be changed once I
    finish my typeface. I may latter also change rather restrictive conditions for
    attribution to less restrictive ones.\r\n\r\n* I was able to find only one subpixel
    font for Apple II (of course font doesn't work with current technology of most
    web users). And is't only a typeface, not a type family.\r\n\r\nThis thread is
    becomming a negative one. Some of you may be more polite, although if you are
    saying the right thing. :-("
  created: '2009-09-17 10:41:32'
- author:
    name: gingerbeardman
    picture: 118013
  body: "I recommend ignoring John Haugeland\r\n\r\nThis is great work, even if it
    might be lost on the majority of people :)"
  created: '2009-09-17 12:36:25'
- author:
    name: svenni
    picture: 110438
  body: "Nice work!\r\n\r\nRegardless of weather this is a first in any sense, I like
    your design.\r\n\r\nI've not seen, in samples posted here by your detractors,
    or elsewhere, subpixel coloring used to make such fine little glyph shapes. \r\n\r\nKeep
    up the good work!\r\n\r\nPS: Mr Haugland, you made your point in your first post.
    With every extra post you add you seem ever more obsessive and weird. If you browse
    around this site you'll find that the tone of conversation here is polite and
    \ grown up. Criticism is usually constructive (and not repetetive, we're trying
    to help each other, not win an argument that no-one but us wants to participate
    in), and to the point. And you've made yours."
  created: '2009-09-17 13:23:46'
- author:
    name: osteele
  body: "<cite>Oliver, can you add a license information that generated images are
    released under this license</cite>: done.\r\n\r\n<cite>This thread is becoming
    a negative one</cite>: [[http://www.consumersavvytips.org/avoiding_an_internet_troll.html|This]]
    and [[http://www.paulgraham.com/trolls.html|this]] might be useful."
  created: '2009-09-17 13:52:22'
- author:
    name: towolf
  body: "Very neat. But alpha blending to anything other than white will be cumbersome.
    Using your palette and brush method you\u2019ll basically have to redo it all
    each time. With a more automated method you could do alpha blending in each RGB
    channel separately.\r\n<code>\r\n       dst.r += (src.r - dst.r) * alpha.r;\r\n
    \      dst.g += (src.g - dst.g) * alpha.g;\r\n       dst.b += (src.b - dst.b)
    * alpha.b;\r\n</code>"
  created: '2009-09-17 15:13:43'
- author:
    name: acrobat
  body: "John Haugeland, your style sucks, but thanks for a lot of interesting information.\r\n\r\nMiha,
    I can feel your enthusiasm. Wonderful work!"
  created: '2009-09-17 19:10:38'
- author:
    name: drj11
  body: 'Ken Perlin''s 2006 efforts: http://mrl.nyu.edu/~perlin/homepage2006/tinyfont/index.html'
  created: '2009-09-17 19:12:40'
- author:
    name: chank
    picture: 110359
  body: totally awesome. congrats miha! nice work, indeed.
  created: '2009-09-17 19:18:04'
- author:
    name: sexyrobot
  body: "the name should be simple...i like 'tiny' or 'fine print'\r\nalso, i have
    a question (non-typographer here so forgive me if it's stupid)...do the letters
    overlay? i.e. is the leftmost pixel in the 'e' the same when it follows an 'o'
    as when it follows an 'l' ?\r\nalso, you got some love from <a href=\"http://www.metafilter.com/85124/the-bees-knees\">metafilter</a>..."
  created: '2009-09-17 19:50:49'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "David Jones, thank you very much for the link! I really didn't know wether
    it was my typeface that it was first or not, but now all doubts are gone. Well,
    probably mine is still the first type family [like it says in the title], but
    anyway: all the glory should go to <strong><em>Ken Perlin</em></strong>! :-)\r\n\r\nAbout
    his font: he actually had a little different intentions than me. I also wanted
    to design the smallest typeface, but with style comming before being the smallest
    (actually, I like style in both italics). My typeface has 1 pixel lower x-height,
    but has ascenders & descenders; and even by cropping them I wouldn't fit more
    text than him.\r\n\r\nI like his typeface! But for my taste there are a bit too
    much pronounced colors. Despite stronger colors it has one huge difference: not
    all its glyphs are made the same, which leads me to conclusion that it was actually
    at least partially programmed. I would love to know more! If it was programmed,
    rendering engine was probably programmed specifically for this font. In this case,
    I would still consider it \"handmade\", and mine respect would even deepen.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    it's strange, but I am not dissapointed because of this. I think I am getting
    more excited!\r\n\r\nMatt Sephton: \"<cite>I recommend ignoring John Haugeland</cite>\"\r\nI
    will, I see it was my mistake responding. His posts are actually the most impolite
    I've seen for some months on Typophile.\r\n\r\nTobias, I think that you can't
    do it as easily. While alpha is correct, <em>color</em> should change too. Because
    I used a consistent color pallete searching & replacing each color with a different
    set of colors would be trivial. I used 4 shades of red, 5 of blue and I think
    3 grays. With white as a background.\r\n\r\n\"<cite>Actually, the proportions
    and slant of the italic also suggest Fournier to me. Congratulations on the first
    manual subpixel French neo-classical type.</cite>\"\r\nJohn, this was almost exactly
    what I tried. I wanted to do a garamond-styled italic. I have still more room
    for experimetations. I will certainly try more slanted italic \"A\" and \"f\".
    Also I really love OsF, they are really appropriate.\r\n\r\nThis time, there is
    no update in design, I am too busy reading retweets :-P. But just for fun, can
    you guess what is below:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/wtf2_6716.gif]\r\nOriginal
    size is in my post with specimen of bold italic."
  created: '2009-09-17 20:50:46'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "Steve, this is also new for some type designers.\r\n\r\nLetters are almost
    always the same, but sometimes when manually setting the text you have to erase
    the leftmost pixel to get the spacing right. I think you may read [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Subpixel_rendering|Wikipedia
    page]] about subpixel rendering and maybe [[http://www.grc.com/cleartype.htm|this]]. "
  created: '2009-09-17 20:57:54'
- author:
    name: fieryspoon
  body: "Miha: I'm impressed with your font, Miha.  I'd really love to see it when
    it's complete.\r\n\r\nStoneCypher: Even if you are actually correct, it is not
    at all acceptable to speak to people the way you have been.  There are ways to
    communicate without making everyone hate you.  As someone who doesn't even disagree
    with you, it is hard not to completely disregard what you have to say due to your
    overwhelming arrogance.  You're obviously intelligent, so I'd suggest that you
    behave than a thirteen year old forum troll."
  created: '2009-09-17 23:02:49'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: "Miha: oh, now it has to be hand made?  That's quite new.  If you had said
    that before I would have pointed you to the several I've made or the dozen-odd
    I've collected over the years.  I can also direct you to the webpages of various
    people who have made them and released them freely on the web.  I'm sure you'll
    then change your blog title to \"first hand-made subpixel font in photoshop ever\",
    which will also be wrong.\r\n\r\nThere are about a dozen in circulation for the
    GBA, all of which were hand made.  Many of the fonts I've pointed you to were
    hand made.  And, of course, the very first example I gave you, the Apple ][ ROM
    font, was also hand made, as were about half of the other examples I gave you.\r\n\r\nYou're
    just making claims based on guesses and acting like there's nothing wrong with
    that.\r\n\r\nI notice that you've picked a third completely wrong guess about
    your being first, and used that as your latest false unresearched claim about
    your world firsts.\r\n\r\nPlease stop making false claims.  You aren't even trying
    to research them.  People are repeating your claims as if they were fact.  You
    are building a reputation based on things you made up.\r\n\r\nThe first time it
    was an understandable mistake.  The second it was a not-understandable mistake.
    \ By now, the third time, I'm hoping you'll learn your lesson about basic honesty:
    don't make claims if you don't know them to be true.\r\n\r\nUnfortunately I'm
    learning that you won't do that, and your readership is becoming extremely abusive.\r\n\r\nPlease
    fix your post title to something that is honest, instead of making yet another
    false claim to a first.  You've made the same dishonest class of statement three
    times in a row, now.  The first you posited as an honest mistake.  I notice you
    haven't tried to explain the other two as such.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nAlso, now
    there are people on MetaFilter claiming I'm wrong, based on that they developed
    fonts for Newton and believe that means they know everything any Newton application
    ever did, and I'm not willing to pay five dollars to set the record straight.
    \ One fish Two fish Red fish Blue fish, if you would like a hand finding apple
    newton applications using subpixel fonts, please contact me directly instead of
    telling a bunch of people I won't pay to talk to that I'm wrong.  I'm not hard
    to reach, and you should probably ask me where those applications are before saying
    I'm wrong in public.\r\n\r\nI released some of the software you're claiming I'm
    wrong about, so you might feel like an authority, but hey, so do I.  It seems
    likely that I know more about the software I released than did a guy who made
    vector fonts."
  created: '2009-09-18 01:48:19'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: "It is unfortunate that the people here are so happy to condescend to me,
    when I was initially polite and did not become rude until the dishonesty was repeated,
    yet are all over a minor font designer who has hand-rendered a subpixel font 33
    years after the technology went to market, and made repeated false claims about
    firsts afterwards.\r\n\r\nIt's almost like you guys aren't offended by being lied
    to."
  created: '2009-09-18 01:50:25'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: "\"PS: Mr Haugland, you made your point in your first post.\"\r\n\r\nObviously
    not; the post is newly dishonest twice, and still is as we speak, on the back
    of data which is refuted by said first post.  Indeed, Miha has ceded the first
    to Ken Perlin, who acted more than 30 years after the examples I gave her, yet
    still has not amended her blog title or text.\r\n\r\nIf you hadn't realized, she's
    trying to become famous by claiming something she didn't do, knowing that most
    people who repeat the work won't read the comments, and so her name will be on
    everyone's blog for achieving something she even now admits herself she did not
    actually achieve.\r\n\r\nIt's bothersome that someone would claim someone else's
    success this way.  I'm friends with several of the people who performed these
    steps most likely before Miha was born, and they are legitimately offended by
    this person lying and stealing their thunder.\r\n\r\nIf you guys are angry because
    I brought facts to the table?  Well, too bad.\r\n\r\nThis doesn't go to Ken Perlin,
    who is a great guy, and who I miss talking to.\r\n\r\nThis probably goes to Steve
    Wozniak, who as I already told Miha a day before she decided to credit Ken, hand-made
    a family of fonts for right-raster subpixel rendering in 1976.\r\n\r\nShe just
    doesn't care to be honest about the data she was provided because her fans have
    decided to tell me I'm a bad, bad man, in much harsher tones than the tones they're
    complaining about.\r\n\r\nCompelling stuff, really.\r\n\r\nWe'll see whether Miha
    ever becomes honest.  At this point, I'm not holding my breath."
  created: '2009-09-18 01:58:37'
- author:
    name: towolf
  body: "Well roared, lion! But drop it now please. \r\n\r\nBesides, probably the
    \xBBfirst page of google hits\xAB would have revealed the likely gender of a person
    from Slovenia named Miha."
  created: '2009-09-18 02:49:29'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'John: I think your argument is absolutely fine, but I still want to ask you
    to tone down the angry voice. Being ridiculed in public is no good experience,
    not for any of you. My advice is to continue this talk in private. I''m sure,
    if you let him, Miha can learn tons from you! You clearly have a lot of interest
    in the subject, and he seems eager to learn.'
  created: '2009-09-18 03:08:50'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: "Frode: I'll speak as I see fit, thanks.  Should someone ever take credit
    for your work thirty years late falsely in public three times in a row, I should
    hope you also have a friend who will stand up for you.\r\n\r\nI was polite the
    first time.  When the false claims continued, that changed.\r\n\r\nAs far as Miha
    learning from me, I have a fascination with honesty in those I choose to teach.
    \ Given that Miha has already made three distinct false claims, and that Miha
    has chosen to say her mistake was to respond to me at all, I don't think either
    party involved is interested in such an arrangement.\r\n\r\nIt's been more than
    a day.  It's been several distinct communications.  It's time for the masquerade
    to end."
  created: '2009-09-18 03:55:13'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: "\"Besides, probably the \xBBfirst page of google hits\xAB would have revealed
    the likely gender of a person from Slovenia named Miha.\"\r\n\r\nYeah, I used
    to date a Slovak named Miha who was a girl.  I'd have thought had I that wrong,
    s/he would have said so.\r\n\r\nAs I understood it, it's like Dale, Carol or Sammy:
    it can be either, but it's usually female.  If that's wrong, s/he should probably
    mention it."
  created: '2009-09-18 03:57:27'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: "SexyRobot: what you're looking for is called \"kerning\", and is handled
    by most type systems, including bitmapped font type systems.  As these are actually
    images, not a font at all, there is no kerning information, and as such you would
    have to position them manually.  Since these are images, not a subpixel grid,
    you are constrained to whole-pixel positioning, which loses the 3x kerning benefit
    normally inherent in a subpixel type system.\r\n\r\nHowever, this is actually
    an understandable limitation of this work: subpixel bitmapped font systems are
    barely present at all, and difficult even for programmers to locate and use, let
    alone people who don't work with code.\r\n\r\nThere is a subpixel font system
    from 2003 in pure portable C on my webpage if you want it, but the work involved
    with converting this image set of letters into an actual subpixel font is significant;
    it means writing something to break down the color channels independantly and
    re-assemble the grid.\r\n\r\nOn the bright side, an actual subpixel font would
    not be locked to RGB screens, as this one is, so if you intend to use it in software
    without losing 20% of your customer base immediately, you should probably get
    cracking."
  created: '2009-09-18 04:01:26'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: "\"This is really cool!\r\n\r\nHow did you decide how to choose the pixel
    colors to address the subpixels? Are you using the [1/9,2/9,3/9,2/9,1/9] filter
    described by Steve Gibson in the link you mentioned above?\"\r\n\r\nNo, this is
    a simple boolean channel rendering.  This is subpixel, but it isn't anti-aliased.\r\n\r\nIf
    you take the time to write out each combination of the three channels in a pixel,
    then do the math to see what they turn up, you get the top eight colors from ANSI,
    except with gray as black instead.  A web designer would call them #000, #00F,
    #0F0, #0FF, #F00, #F0F, #FF0 and #FFF.  Each F is an on (or \"white\") subpixel,
    and each 0 is an off (or \"black\") subpixel.\r\n\r\nThe key to understanding
    the effect is to forget about the relationship between color channels and composite
    pixel color, and instead to view things like the cerebral cortex does - as a black
    mask over a varying-color background.\r\n\r\nThe brain processes the mask _before_
    it composites the color.  The fineness of the subpixel line is present explicitly
    because it is position independant of color.  Color is honestly forgotten.  You
    forget it too.\r\n\r\nLook at the top of a capital A.  It'll just be one sub-pixel,
    but it still looks black in a white background, even though whatever pixel that's
    in is down one color channel.  Why isn't it magenta, yellow or cyan?\r\n\r\nBecause
    the brain sees a black mask there, and interprets the background color as an iridescent
    range which is *later* blended together.\r\n\r\nGRC's 1,2,3,2,1 filter is for
    anti-aliasing within that mask.  The reason that filter exists is that raw anti-aliasing
    spreads artifacts over the color channels, which then become visible as net color
    changes.  \r\n\r\nBut this font isn't anti-aliased at all.  It's subpixel.  The
    two are seperate concepts which can be applied together, but have not been here.\r\n\r\nGRC's
    capital A example is exactly what's going on here: there is no anti-aliasing at
    all, but since the effect of subpixel is stronger than AA, it still looks better
    than AA.\r\n\r\n1,2,3,2,1 is about doing both at the same time while managing
    color fringes."
  created: '2009-09-18 04:16:12'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: "\"Very neat. But alpha blending to anything other than white will be cumbersome.
    \"\r\n\r\nIt's actually not too bad.  Using the 1,2,3,2,1 filter which may be
    read about at GRC, you get color balance without burn or channel burn, and since
    it's so small, you can implement it in the registers on basically any modern embedded
    CPU (or in matrices in a SSE machine, but I can't imagine anyone would worry about
    font alpha on a processor that large.)\r\n\r\nI had subpixel truetype with alpha
    rendering working for full-screen 8-pixel Arial on the GameBoy Advance (an arm7
    running at 16mhz) in single frames (1/60, roughly, of a second.)  The GameBoy
    Advance is approximately half of nothing, in terms of processing power.\r\n\r\nGranted,
    all I was doing was using <a href=\"http://freetype.org\">FreeType 2</a>, so my
    role in that work was basically typing #include and hitting compile, but the point
    is, alpha actually isn't expensive at all, in any practical sense.  You spend
    a whole lot more CPU power alpha blending every single window border on a Vista
    machine running Aero without DX10 shaders.\r\n\r\nIt's basically a blitter, honestly.
    \ Generate the font grid and then apply it to the background like you would an
    alpha texture.  It's pretty much the same thing you'd use to draw sprites on a
    Commodore 64, but with three multiplies per pixel (or four shifts and an XOR,
    if you do your old-bear reading.)"
  created: '2009-09-18 04:19:55'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: "Aluminium:\r\n\r\n\"Has anyone built a chart that shows the relation between
    the specific colors needed to trigger the individual combination of sub-pixels?\"\r\n\r\nOn
    RGB (~80% of the market), the web color #RGB, where for each pixel you want dark
    you fill in a 0, and for each color you want light you fill in F.  So, for example,
    if you want the right and center subpixel mask-black, but the left unmask-white,
    it's #F00, or bright red.  \r\n\r\nOn BGR (~20% of the market), use #BGR instead.\r\n\r\nThere
    are only eight colors per arrangement, and in the real world, only RGB and BGR
    exist.  \r\n\r\nThe germane observation though is that this is actually a boolean
    triple, not a color.  The reason that it matters which screen orientation is used
    is that these are images, not a font; a subpixel bitmap font is just a collection
    of boolean or integer valued pixels, as some grayscale range.\r\n\r\nThis is a
    serious problem in practice: one of five of your customers using LCD screens will
    not be able to read this font.  It'll look like tiny color blobs.  Larger fonts
    can usually be resolved with some head pain, but at this scale, the human can't
    usually put it together if the color set is wrong.\r\n\r\nAn example of where
    this matters is the Nintendo DS.  That device has two screens.  The manufacturer
    of the screens (Sharp) put the connection cable on the bottom edge.  To save on
    extra cable, Nintendo installs the top screen upside-down and reverses its addressing
    order so that it shouldn't affect programmers.\r\n\r\nExcept that changes the
    top screen to BGR, so if you want to do subpixel on the DS, you have to have *both*
    orderings (or an actual font).\r\n\r\nAn actual font would just be {1,0,0}, {0,1,0},
    ... , and the colors would be worked out at runtime to match the monitor in use.
    \ A font renderer would, as such, also be able to position the font characters
    at subpixel boundaries instead of pixel boundaries, since it's just a big 3:1
    boolean mask it's painting, instead of precalculated color pixels meant to trigger
    the subpixel effect.  That means 3x the fine-grained positioning of the spacing
    between letters, and if you're a fontographer, you know how important that is
    for kerning, for justification and so on.\r\n\r\nWhich isn't Miha's fault: subpixel
    bitmap font software is brutally difficult to find and has essentially no customer
    penetration, so unless you're also writing the dependant software (which is why
    you see this in cases like the nintendo ds, where that's always the case, but
    not on PCs), it's generally an exercise in futility to attempt that sort of font.\r\n\r\nJust
    saying."
  created: '2009-09-18 04:31:13'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: "Incidentally with regard to color blind effects, it depends on the kind of
    color blindness in question.  There are two general groups of color blindness:
    people whose cones for one or more color ranges have developed to report as a
    different range (most common) and people whose cones for one or more color ranges
    are absent, either because they didn't develop or because they were destroyed,
    typically due to disease.\r\n\r\nPeople whose cones are for the wrong color (say,
    red-as-green, green, blue, the most common color blindness type) will see roughly
    the same quality that normal visioned people will see.  Those people still respond
    to the third light color, but cannot differentiate it between that and the other
    color stimulus.  The blue light is caught, but is responded to as green.  There
    is a minor difference in that the human eye is more sensitive to certain light
    ranges - we're much better at green than blue, which is why YUV encodes only one
    quarter the blue range to save on bandwidth - then when one of the photoreceptors
    reports in the wrong range, it reports a diminished signal, so it's like having
    dark stripes on whichever of the color pair is less responsive, but the human
    visual cortex is made to remove partial alpha patterns, so that doesn't really
    matter much in practice (which is also why most SPAA systems don't try to adjust
    their output to the sensitivity range of each color).\r\n\r\nPeople whose sensitivity
    to a color is absent will see a significantly degraded quality of text, because
    there will be stripe gaps in important curves and angled lines, and the human
    brain doesn't like to guess, because that leads to optical illusions, so it decides
    you must be looking through a fern instead, and interprets the missing rows as
    a second mask of vertical lines, which is very distracting.  However, this kind
    of color blindness is rare.\r\n\r\nYou can tell the difference by holding up a
    white board with primary red, green and blue circle on it.  People whose sensitivity
    is there but mis-labelled will see red, green and green, or whatever.  People
    whose sensitivity is absent will see red, green and black, or whatever.\r\n\r\nIf
    they see two colors, one repeated, they'll report a quality font rendering.  If
    they see two colors and black, they'll report a very poor font rendering."
  created: '2009-09-18 04:43:02'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: "Here's HRCG (High-Resolution Character Generator), which is Apple doing a
    handmade subpixel type family in 1976, US Patent 4079458:\r\n\r\nhttps://www.patentstorm.us/patents/4079458/claims.html\r\n\r\nThree
    years later they released a font editing application, US patent 4345244.  It's
    basically what you're doing right now in Photoshop, except that it also had a
    grid 2:1 mode (because apple screens weren't actually 3-color back then).\r\n\r\nBy
    the way, Apple originally did it actually by hand: numbers in code.  Using a paint
    program like the one they released in 1979 isn't by hand at all.  But they had
    that as a sale product on the market in 1979, and more than four hundred fonts
    were released by people like you.  This was a product you could buy in Radio Shack
    in the Carter era, during the Arab Oil Embargo.\r\n\r\nNone of those font authors
    claimed to be the first, though.\r\n\r\n.\r\n\r\nHere's a collection of hand-made
    subpixel fonts (he brags about how hand-made anti-aliasing makes a difference,
    and brags about how Microsoft heard about the Cleartype practice from him) for
    the Mac from _1999_, which went offline in 2006, but is still held on the Wayback
    Machine, offering eleven different face families at varying scales, boldness and
    italicness of which five are lost forever:\r\n\r\nhttp://web.archive.org/web/19990128033152/http://www.airwindows.com/shareware/fonts/index.html\r\n\r\n.\r\n\r\nHere's
    the list of Microsoft patents that apply to subpixel bitmapped rendering.  Just
    replace the patentstorm number with the one you want to see.  6,188,385; 6,219,025;
    6,239,783; 6,307,566  These are all from the early 1990s.\r\n\r\n.\r\n\r\nHere's
    the Chinese doing it for Han in 1985:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.springerlink.com/content/1953461l532x341g/\r\n\r\n.\r\n\r\nI
    half-wrote a bitmap subpixel font editor in 2006 for the web:\r\n\r\nhttp://sc.tri-bit.com/outgoing/fonteditor/\r\n\r\n.\r\n\r\nHere
    is a hand-made subpixel font demo for the GameBoy Advance from the 2005 GBAX coding
    competition.  It is a larger type family than the one here.  It's near the end;
    search for guyfawkes.\r\n\r\nhttp://gbax.gp2x.de/gbax2005.html\r\n\r\n.\r\n\r\nHere's
    AstroStorm, a game written for a 2002 competition for the commodore 64, with subpixel
    bitmap font face rendering and subpixel *level* rendering, from hand drawn fonts.
    \ This is primarily hilarious because the Commodore 64 died long before screens
    which could ever have rendered this game, which the author notes in his readme.txt
    in the competition entry.  It's a programmer joke.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.cling.gu.se/~cl3polof/minigame/results.html\r\n\r\n.\r\n\r\nHere's
    XFT, which has been doing this since 2003:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/Xft\r\n\r\n.\r\n\r\nHere's
    Anti-Grain Geometry, a graphics engine which can subpixel render vector fonts
    at any angle since 2004, because it's actually subpixel rendering, not just pre-calculating
    colors:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.antigrain.com/\r\n\r\nHe has an extremely long and detailed
    explanation of half a dozen forms of subpixel rendering, from 2007.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.antigrain.com/research/font_rasterization/index.html\r\n\r\n.\r\n\r\nHere's
    Cairo Graphics, which can do the same thing since 2005:\r\n\r\nhttp://cairographics.org/\r\n\r\n.\r\n\r\nHere's
    Adobe GIL, which can do the same thing since 2006:\r\n\r\nhttp://opensource.adobe.com/wiki/display/gil/Generic+Image+Library\r\n\r\n.\r\n\r\nHere's
    SubLCD, which can do the same thing since 2007:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.oyhus.no/SubLCD.html\r\n\r\n.\r\n\r\nHere's
    a Nintendo DS universal text reader from February of this year which uses a different
    subpixel font.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.richwhitehouse.com/index.php?content=inc_projects.php&showcat=Everything&page=9#prjmp36\r\n\r\n.\r\n\r\nHere's
    Tonc's Text Engine, a standard library in almost every GBA and DS toolchain, which
    is portable and has builds for a dozen or so handheld devices, including basically
    everything targetted by DevKitPro.  It's a real subpixel font engine: it has subpixel
    positioning, subpixel kerning, more than a dozen fonts with a variety of faces
    and the ability for users to add more, and can support color subpixel text.  TTE
    began in 2004 if I remember correctly, though it was actively maintained until
    2008.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.coranac.com/tonc/text/tte.htm\r\n\r\n.\r\n\r\nHere's the
    2006 port of Angband to the Nintendo DS, which has a variety of subpixel font
    options.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.qj.net/Remember-Angband-Playtesters-needed-for-DS-port/pg/49/aid/68085\r\n\r\n.\r\n\r\nHere
    are half a dozen subpixel implementations, some vector and some bitmapped, for
    the GP32x.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.gp32x.com/board/index.php?showtopic=26341&st=0\r\n\r\n.\r\n\r\nHere's
    discussion of the Amazon Kindle 2 getting SPAA in February.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.metafilter.com/79104/Kindling-an-interest-in-reading-or-listening\r\n\r\n.\r\n\r\nHere's
    Microsoft explaining how they handle bitmap subpixel positioning post vector font
    rendering in 2004 at an astoundingly technical level:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/typography/ctfonts/WordRecognition.aspx\r\n\r\n.\r\n\r\nNow
    would you please stop pretending you invented, what is it this time, the \"hand
    made subpixel type family\"?  Even a cursory look around the internet reveals
    dozens of counter-examples from the era of Disco.\r\n\r\nThis was old news to
    KC and the Sunshine Band."
  created: '2009-09-18 05:59:38'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "I said:\r\n\"<cite>But is this the first font family? [\u2026] I changed
    title to this. [\u2026] BTW, I would love to see some examples of your (or someone
    else) hand-made subpixel typefaces.</cite>\"\r\nReplies with almost two thousands
    words followed, but there was no link or embedded image of what I asked.\r\nDavid
    responded with four (!) words and a link. I was very glad he posted it, and I
    modified first post to mention Ken Perlin.\r\n\r\nI said latter:\r\n\"<cite>Well,
    probably mine is still the first type family [like it says in the title]</cite>\"*\r\nAgain,
    replies followed with now more than <em>three</em> thousands words. Yet I stil
    haven't seen an embedded image or the link to typographic family.\r\n\r\nStrange,
    there were also no direct responses to what I directly responded to him after
    he made almost two thousands words.\r\n\r\nI see this as a trolling.\r\n\r\nI
    also strongly dislike discussing about discussion. I am not satisified that this
    happened in my second blog / thread post post I ever made here (and I am a member
    for more than a year!).\r\n* I am not sure if non-compatible rendering on LCD
    of old technology counts, but I didn't see an example for it either.\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-18 08:32:25'
- author:
    name: jwr
  body: "I suggest ignoring StoneCypher. He obviously has 1) way too much time on
    his hands, 2) can't spend it in a creative way, instead destroying what others
    have done.\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-18 10:15:38'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: John, I'm only giving an advice. It's up to you to make something of it or
    not:) Cheers
  created: '2009-09-18 11:51:03'
- author:
    name: autacraft
    picture: 118047
  body: "MIHA!\r\n\r\nI've just been slung here via the glories of MetaFilter\r\n\r\nJust
    wanted to sing your praises, I LOVE your teeny tiny font family! Its just great!\r\n\r\nIs
    it available yet? If not, any idea when it will be complete and where can we all
    get it from? Id absolutely love to use it if possible, just on my own site?\r\n\r\nI
    started reading on the comments, and to be honest didnt really understand a lot
    of what was been said so I skipped through :-)\r\n\r\nOne thing though, Mr. John
    Haugeland ('full of bs' - how very apt!)is there really any need at all to be
    so enraged, angry and adamant? You are seemingly the only one on this post so
    'effected' by any genuine oversight on Miha's part....bit dramatic don't you think?...thats
    rhetorical by the way.\r\n\r\nTo err is human sir, remember that!\r\n\r\nCheers
    again Miha!\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-18 14:31:28'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "miha, did you beat up StoneCypher in Junior High or something? He seems to
    be holding a serious grudge. \r\n\r\nStoneCypher, you seem to know your stuff.
    Maybe edit your replies down a bit and calm down on the rhetoric, though. We always
    welcome knowledge here. Not so much flame wars."
  created: '2009-09-18 15:20:40'
- author:
    name: PandaBear
  body: "StoneCypher:\r\n\r\nHere's \"Eve\" which dependent on your belief system
    was the first woman ever created (not via Apple, but there was an Apple around
    somewhere).\r\n\r\nhttp://2.bp.blogspot.com/_sQEkFKSm1IA/R1Y8JNpdq6I/AAAAAAAAAYI/UXgaKONXraw/s320/eve+in+the+garden+of+eden+anna+lea+merritt.jpg\r\n\r\nShe
    is what is known nowadays as a \"woman\". Admittedly from the above image you
    are unable to tell the sex, it could actually be an image of yourself (check Facebook)
    trying to reach that little bit further to appease whatever your desires may be.\r\n\r\nNow,
    back to the woman. Patent 5.33, 5.22, 2.43, 14.38, these women (collective term
    of more than one), although perhaps we'll stick with just 'woman' in your context,
    have powerful powers over men folk. This power is often called the \"vagina\".\r\n\r\nhttp://anthro.palomar.edu/biobasis/images/female_reproductive_organs.gif
    (WARNING MAY UPSET)\r\n\r\nNow as you will no doubt notice, it does look a little
    like a horned beast - perhaps a symbol used by your favourite heavy metal band.
    But that entire object fits neatly between the 'woman' legs, in place of her pee-pee.\r\n\r\nAfter
    reading your comments about typography, fonts, and all that fun stuff, I come
    to the conclusion that your pent up anger and frustration is not always going
    to be sorted out by Baywatch reruns, and so may I suggest these following sites
    to help you on your way:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.artofseductions.com/how-to-talk-to-girls/\r\nhttp://www.ehow.com/how_5238428_speak-girls-stimulate-attraction.html\r\nhttp://www.ehow.com/how_2095206_use-jokes-pick-up-girls.html\r\nhttp://russianbrides.com/\r\n\r\nGood
    luck with all of the above, and hopefully you will be able to once again return
    to this thread and join with the rest of us by telling miha what a great, and
    aesthetically pleasing job he has done."
  created: '2009-09-18 16:00:27'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: "Autacraft: this isn't error anymore.  I said that originally when it was
    a mistake.  Miha has been provided now seven counter-examples, two from the 1970s,
    yet retains a dishonest blog title (the third s/he chose) and retains dishonest
    notes in the blog post attributing this to Ken instead of Steve.\r\n\r\nAluminium:
    There is no rhetoric.  I'm not sure why you guys keep telling me how to behave;
    I'm obviously not listening.  I find it fascinating that you continue to focus
    on my tone, without saying a word to Miha about his/her now thoroughly displayed
    honesty.  It isn't a question of error anymore.  Miha has been told repeatedly,
    and continues in public to make false claims to other people's accomplishments.\r\n\r\nMiha:
    Please stop lying about what you've achieved.  You've been given more than 20
    counter-examples, including a list of eighteen links which contains seven counter-examples
    to your current version of your claim.\r\n\r\nIt's time to change the post to
    something honest."
  created: '2009-09-18 16:04:31'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: "\"<cite>Yet I stil haven\u2019t seen an embedded image or the link to typographic
    family.</cite>\"\r\n\r\nThen you aren't looking at the large list of links I gave;
    there are in fact quite a few.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>Strange, there were also no
    direct responses to what I directly responded to him</cite>\r\n\r\nI have responded
    to everything you've said to me, Miha.  If there are specific things you'd like
    me to address, please mention them.  However, the fact that you're now claiming
    on the heels of that enormous list of links, many of which go directly to lists
    of fonts, that you haven't seen any fonts suggests that the reason you think I'm
    not responding to you is you aren't bothering to read what I say.\r\n\r\nI wish
    I could feel surprised.\r\n\r\nStart with the web archive link.  There are a list
    of type families right on that page.  It's got images of all of them, and download
    links on the right.\r\n\r\nEvery single one of those links satisfies the criteria
    you've just lied and said I failed.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>after he made
    almost two thousands words.</cite>\r\n\r\nTime enough to count the words, but
    not to read them?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nAluminium: \"miha, did you beat up StoneCypher
    in Junior High or something? He seems to be holding a serious grudge.\"\r\n\r\nI
    already explained this.  Miha is stealing credit for the work of my close friends,
    who are very angry about the matter but fundamentally non-confrontational.  One
    of them punched a wall and broke a finger.\r\n\r\nI should hope that if you ever
    have close friends who achieve something, and that some random person on the web
    gets caught repeatedly lying in public, then claims that they aren't seeing real
    counter-examples, you would be a good enough person to stand up for your friends
    too.\r\n\r\nI will settle, however, for you ceasing to make comments like \"did
    you beat him up in highschool\", then proceeding to complain about my tone."
  created: '2009-09-18 16:09:53'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: "Another thing I find fascinating is that the vast bulk of what I'm writing
    is answering people's questions in a polite, helpful way, in far more detail and
    with far more correctness than the blog author.  You guys all seem completely
    blind to that, and seem to want to attribute those words to me being a big mean
    bully at your poor little Miha.\r\n\r\nGrow up.  Plagiarists - that word means
    \"someone who steals someone else's credit\", not work - deserve a lot worse than
    a series of originally polite but increasingly disappointed comments giving concrete
    counter-examples.\r\n\r\nMiha is lucky I'm not responding on every single blog
    that cross-posts this page.  However, I'm getting to the point where I will no
    longer do Miha the courtesy of letting this be fixed by his/her own hand.\r\n\r\nIt
    is inappropriate for you all to defend a plagiarist against someone being \"mean\"
    to them, by being substantially meaner, all the while ignoring the significant
    dishonesty you're looking at because you're exposed to a modest quality subpixel
    font which hasn't even figured out the s/z stacking problem.\r\n\r\nEach of you
    should ask yourself a question before admonishing me again with something I probably
    won't even bother to read: would you prefer pleasant lies or frank honesty?  \r\n\r\nDon't
    waste my time telling me it's about my tone again, or repeating my own words about
    error being human; my tone didn't begin until after Miha had repeated the dishonesty
    once, and you can't make an error of understanding twice in a row, let alone three
    times as you all seem to want to believe Miha has.\r\n\r\nIt isn't the first subpixel
    font ever.  That was changed.\r\n\r\nIt isn't the first subpixel font family ever.
    \ That was changed.\r\n\r\nIt isn't the first hand-made subpixel font family ever.
    \ Miha has been repeatedly informed of this, but continues to make the claim in
    public.\r\n\r\nThis is the sort of behavior one expects from Fox News participants:
    \"don't you put facts in front of my hero!  you're mean to the person who keeps
    making sweeping claims without research after learning they're wrong!  don't call
    the person lying a liar!\"\r\n\r\nYeah, yeah.\r\n\r\nI may be mean, but at least
    I'm honest."
  created: '2009-09-18 16:16:58'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "John, if you would read my post again I said \u201CI think your argument
    is absolutely fine\u201D. Miha is just a young student, and you should cut him
    some slack!"
  created: '2009-09-18 16:54:58'
- author:
    name: autacraft
    picture: 118047
  body: "StoneCypher!....will you cool your boots! seriously!\r\n\r\nHas it not occurred
    to you, that perhaps - just perhaps! - the reason Miha hasn't altered the post
    title, is because people generally don't respond too well the demanding (and almost
    paranoid!) behaviour you display. The more you harp on about 'rights/wrongs' in
    the manner that you are doing, equally people will continue to burn you down regarding
    your attitude, myself included. \r\n\r\nFew people are even disputing your 'honest'points
    (albeit ranted) but your histrionics and  arrogance is now becoming boring, seriously.
    Put your dummy back in and shush please. If you cant stop crying about the damned
    title, then email admin. Your obsession is slightly disturbing.\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-18 17:11:44'
- author:
    name: PandaBear
  body: ">>> One of them punched a wall and broke a finger.\r\n\r\nOh really? mhmmm..."
  created: '2009-09-18 17:21:56'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "<cite>Has it not occurred to you [to John Haugeland], that perhaps - just
    perhaps! - the reason Miha hasn\u2019t altered the post title, is because people
    generally don\u2019t respond too well the demanding (and almost paranoid!) behaviour
    you display.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe reason is I haven't yet seen a handmade supixel
    type family other than mine.\r\n\r\nAnd if his series of posts weren't so impolite,
    I could easily, just like that, change it to somethink else. But now I have to
    see the proof. Image (or link to image), 1x zoom, lossless, all styles, link to
    site where it says it was handmade.\r\n\r\nNathan: I am working on it, be patient
    :-) Also, read this [[http://typophile.com/node/61920#comment-368044|comment]].\r\n\r\nI
    think this is the right time that moderators say something."
  created: '2009-09-18 18:09:45'
- author:
    name: myobie
  body: "StoneCypher,\r\n\r\nSeriously, you don't like the title of this thread so
    much that you will continue to post and whine and yell until it gets fixed? Is
    it hard for you to accept that you don't have absolute control over what other
    people do?\r\n\r\nYou would win more friends to your truth squad movement if you
    weren't so annoying. \r\n\r\nYour links are informative and you seem to know what
    you talking about, but man, calm down. It doesn't matter if people don't agree
    with you, that doesn't count against you.\r\n\r\nSeriously."
  created: '2009-09-18 18:26:36'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I find it fascinating that you continue to focus on my tone, without saying
    a word to Miha\"\r\n\r\nSometimes one's volume and behavior drowns out any valid
    points they may have had. "
  created: '2009-09-18 18:47:12'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: "Frode: I did cut Miha some slask.\r\n\r\nMiha: I don't care why you continue
    to be dishonest.  You might want to look the word \"paranoid\" up; I have not
    expressed any fear, let alone any irrational fear.\r\n\r\nPlease stop taking credit
    for the work of my friends, no matter what reason you've chosen not to."
  created: '2009-09-18 20:36:25'
- author:
    name: mattyu
  body: "As StoneCypher registered on Typophile just to attack Miha, I've registered
    to defend him and to praise his work. \r\n\r\nI started reading this thread a
    few days ago but I was disappointed to see the trolling that has overshadowed
    the fascinating discussion.\r\n\r\nStoneCypher: Two words: \u2018Messiah complex.\u2019
    You're not rectifying history, you're just singing \u201Cliar, liar, pants on
    fire.\u201D That the title of a forum discussion bothers you so much is kind of
    pathetic. We see a lot of things we disagree with on the web. One just closes
    the website and moves on. Just quit while you\u2019re... Never mind, just quit.\r\n\r\nKeep
    up the good work, Miha. Any updates on where you're going with the name? I suggest
    the you take the egotistical route and call it \"Miha\" since your name is short.
    But come to think of it, maybe it should be a name with three letters to match
    the x-height?"
  created: '2009-09-18 22:23:50'
- author:
    name: qu1j0t3
    picture: 109648
  body: 'Wow John H/StoneCypher: member for 2 days and you''re already an obnoxious,
    arrogant pain in the ass - pre-existing condition, or just a special for us? Please
    get a new hobby before Typophile cuts you down to size.'
  created: '2009-09-18 23:45:07'
- author:
    name: towolf
  body: "Now I\u2019m waiting for a sock puppet or two. Preferably the one with the
    broken finger."
  created: '2009-09-19 00:58:30'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Guys, I think you should stop the ridiculing as well. Let this rest!
  created: '2009-09-19 01:08:29'
- author:
    name: autacraft
    picture: 118047
  body: "Hi again Miha, \r\n\r\nRegards that link to an earlier post (referencing
    when the typeface might be ready?)...my browser sent me to a section which included:\r\n\r\n\"Oliver,
    can you add a license information that generated images are released under this
    license: CC by-nd 2.5 with an addition that all generated images will be changed
    once I finish my typeface. I may latter also change rather restrictive conditions
    for attribution to less restrictive ones.\"\r\n\r\nIs that where it meant to lead
    me - I'm a bit unclear what you were trying to tell me :-(\r\n\r\nSorry for my
    lack of knowledge!"
  created: '2009-09-19 11:59:17'
- author:
    name: dontbugme
    picture: 110809
  body: And that, folks, concludes the definitive guide on proper forum trolling.
    Tune in next month for our series on spam bots. Thanks for coming, everyone!
  created: '2009-09-19 18:25:58'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "I'm posting some more progress, this time uppercase in bold italic. Still
    the long way to go! I will have to add numbers and additional characters; then,
    I suspect, automatically setting the text will reveal spacing problems in both
    bold weights. In the end I will add suport for pretested color combinations.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sbpx3_6203.gif]\r\n\r\nIt
    is still very rough around the edges :-) (not literally)\r\n\r\nNathan, I should
    be more specific. I can understand that you didn't want to read all the irrelevant
    information. Actually, I was refering to my comment that you quoted, meaning that
    type will be released under CC license \u2013 basically this means for free. (and
    Oliver already made a quick engine for setting text, although I prefer not to
    use it before the typeface is finished\u2026) Also, I really don't know when it
    will be finished. I think it has been nine days since I started from nothing.\r\n\r\nMatthew,
    thank you! I think I won't name it after myself. Did some fonts before [but none
    of them really finished] and they didn't have my name. I think I am going to chose
    a really unusual name."
  created: '2009-09-20 19:35:13'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Nice work Miha. I'm amazed at the way you've made the interletter space consistent
    between the glyphs, and that it still looks black on white. \r\n\r\nWhat format
    is this font in? And would it work on different coloured backgrounds or inverted?\r\n\r\nKeep
    up the good work ;)"
  created: '2009-09-20 20:30:22'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "Thanks, Ben! Yes, I was specially careful with spacing when I first started
    the italic. With bold italic I was just making glyphs, and this is not the only
    reason why there are going to be problems.\r\nI think the text looks relatively
    light. The downside of fonts rendered with subpixel rendering is that they look
    lighter (not as black) as pure pixel rendered fonts.\r\nWell \u2026 this \"specimen\"
    <em>is</em> the font format. A little flash app in developement takes this little
    lines which begin with red dot, copies the corresponding glyphs and sets the text
    (only for italic, tho, and still has some problems).\r\nAs for the colors: they
    will have to be changed by the application, since every color combination needs
    different colors. But not all colors will work equally well, even theoretically.\r\n "
  created: '2009-09-20 21:29:14'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: 'Please stop taking other people''s credit, Miha.  You have been provided
    ample evidence of prior extance.  '
  created: '2009-09-21 01:17:08'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Whether or not this is the first handmade subpixel font family or not, this
    is still a remarkable piece of work, cleverly executed.
  created: '2009-09-21 08:01:01'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: Miha, please stop taking credit for other people's work now.
  created: '2009-09-21 16:10:58'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: <a href="http://typophile.com/moderators">Typophile Moderators</a>.
  created: '2009-09-21 16:39:25'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: "I'd really rather you clean this up yourself, Miha.  You were apologetic
    until everyone decided to complain.\r\n\r\nHowever, if you'd like me to go to
    the moderators, we can do it that way.\r\n\r\nI really hope you'll choose to be
    honest on your own, instead of insisting on keeping a false claim in public just
    to be spiteful to the person making the request that you be honest.\r\n\r\n<strong>You
    shouldn't need a reason or help from others to be honest</strong>."
  created: '2009-09-22 01:23:09'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "And I think we all hope you'd shut up now. You have made your point. It's
    there for posterity to see. OK? Goodbye.\r\n(Do we really need to repeat that
    ad nauseam too?!)"
  created: '2009-09-22 01:25:21'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: "Altaira: Why do you feel it appropriate to tell me what you think I should
    do, but that I should not tell Miha what I think s/he should do?\r\n\r\nThe difference
    between Miha and I here is that whereas I've been gruff, I'm not taking credit
    for anyone else's work."
  created: '2009-09-22 01:49:50'
- author:
    name: gingerbeardman
    picture: 118013
  body: miha, keep up the great work and well done with the youtube thing!
  created: '2009-09-22 10:40:57'
- author:
    name: fransb
  body: 'Can you describe the format a bit better, in noob terms. The color of the
    line under the characters are the hex value of the chars, but I don''t see any
    line under the capital characters. Neither do I understand the relation between
    the white/red/"black" pixels, '
  created: '2009-09-22 10:59:26'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "I know there is a nitpicking from my side, because difference between first
    such typeface versus type family (more weights) is a rather small, and maybe just
    unimportant \u2026 (I changed the title only once, to reflect this).\r\n\r\nBecause
    there were (are) very impolite posts not showing a type family \u2013 but million
    other things instead, I didn't want to change it. Ironically, if he said he was
    sure there was such type <em>families</em> before, but just can't find anything,
    I would change it as well. Even more ironically, I think the title such as \"<em>The
    name</em>, a 3px x-height typeface\" would be better.\r\n\r\nMaybe it was a mistake
    not responding to his lies after I saw discussion is impossible. And now, I just
    can't change the title, because regular users of Typophile may think I am indeed
    dishonest \u2026 and after thousands of words and dozens of links which no regular
    user clicked on & studied them it may really seem so :-(\r\n_\r\n\r\nMatt, thanks!\r\n\r\nFran,
    I am noob myself (sorry if you are not!). I wanted to make the format as simple
    as possible for designers. And you are right about hex values, but you couldn't
    know that typeface is not finished in this aspect either. There are no lines under
    capitals because I haven't added them yet. Also, in the last posted file there
    should be no red dots in bold italic.\r\nRelation between white/red/\"black\":
    all \"black\" dots under one glyph represent the width of that glyph, from left
    sidebearing to the right. But a part of the glyph can extends even more on the
    left or to the right, this is why there is sometimes white dot after the red (see
    <em>f</em> for example). A glyph ends with another red dot (which is used for
    next glyph). But what if glyph is the last in the line? There should be another
    red dot to \"stop\" it. (but if you look at my example you will notice there is
    no dot after z :))\r\nThe beauty of this is that you can move glyphs around in
    any way you want, and make it look exactly as you want (I made the curly border,
    for example). The downside is you can't use exactly red pixels elsewhere (and
    some other colors for additinal weights and feautures).\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-22 13:10:55'
- author:
    name: evank
    picture: 118025
  body: "Glad to see you've been making so much progress, miha.  Even if someone's
    built such a thing before, it's still impressive to see it come together from
    scratch :)\r\n\r\nOn a wider subject, may I suggest that everyone *stop feeding
    the troll*.  Stop acknowledging his existence and he will eventually disappear
    in a puff of self-importance.  Instead, he may even find a [[http://markovchainsaw.com/misc/internet-tough-guy-magazine.gif|magazine
    to subscribe to]]."
  created: '2009-09-22 17:20:52'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I propose we just change the name of the thread to:\r\n\r\nFirst handmade
    subpixel type family, ever*\r\n\r\n*and 'ever' meaning nothing necessarily literal
    but more as a catchy headline as there may very well be documented examples of
    this being done before. But, of course, no one really cares too much about that.
    Well, except one particular forum troll. So, for his sake, we've added this long
    wordy disclaimer to the thread so that he may go back to his friend with the sore
    hand and let him know that all is right in the world once again."
  created: '2009-09-22 17:37:22'
- author:
    name: jniemasik
  body: How about "Little Prints"?
  created: '2009-09-22 18:12:16'
- author:
    name: ashley.mitchell
  body: "Come on, everyone, let's all give grumpy ol' John Haugeland a hug and turn
    that frown, upside down!\r\n\r\nHere's wishing you rainbows and puppy dogs, John!
    Mwah!"
  created: '2009-09-23 03:18:09'
- author:
    name: muji
  body: "Sorry to divert from the actual typefaces Miha is trying to produce \u2013
    the topic is not one I am familiar with but I'm finding it quite interesting.
    The 'John Haugeland' question is impossible to avoid. His 'educational' posts
    are well tempered and informative and add to the topic. The 'first' related posts
    are something else. As John keeps on berating people for not reading what he says
    I have been trying to follow through on his weblinks but so far I am struggling
    to see in them any physical examples that prove that the current claim 'First
    handmade subpixel type family, ever' is totally erroneous. My total ignorance
    of the subject matter is a hindrance but I have already come up against a few
    problems:\r\n\r\nWozniak for the honour first 'handmade subpixel typeface'? Or
    not?\r\n\r\nJohn Haugeland claims:\r\n\"Here\u2019s HRCG (High-Resolution Character
    Generator), which is Apple doing a handmade subpixel type family in 1976, US Patent
    4079458.\"\r\n\r\nFirefox warned me against accessing the website John supplied,
    so, from a different website http://www.freepatentsonline.com/4079458.pdf, I see
    the inventors for Patent 4079458 'High resolution character generator' are listed
    as: Rider, Ronald E. (Menlo Park, CA) and Lampson, Butler W. (Portola Valley,
    CA) with Assignee as Xerox Corporation. Where's Wozniak? Where's Apple?\r\n\r\nIn
    the patent I do not see any typefaces let alone type families and the patent seems
    to be concerned with 'character generation' which is an automatic process not
    a 'handmade' process.\r\n\r\nThen on the Wikipedia page on subpixel rendering
    \ http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sub_pixel_rendering does not appear to tally with
    John's opinions. It currently reads:\r\n\r\n    Originally invented by IBM in
    1988, subpixel rendering . . .\r\n\r\n    Subpixel Rendering and the Apple II:\r\n\r\n
    \   It is sometimes claimed (e.g. by Steve Gibson) that the Apple II supported
    an early form of subpixel rendering in its high-resolution (280x192) graphics
    mode. However, the method Gibson describes can also be viewed as a limitation
    of the way the machine generates color, rather than as a technique intentionally
    exploited by programmers to increase resolution.. .\r\n\r\n    While the quote
    from Apple II inventor Steve Wozniak on Gibson's page seems to imply that Apple
    II graphics programmers routinely used subpixel rendering, it is difficult to
    make a case that many of them thought of what they were doing in such terms.\r\n\r\n\r\nPlagiarism\r\n\r\nJohn
    says\r\n\r\n    \"Grow up. Plagiarists - that word means \u201Csomeone who steals
    someone else\u2019s credit\u201D, not work - deserve a lot worse than a series
    of originally polite but increasingly disappointed comments giving concrete counter-examples.\"\r\n\r\nThe
    definition did not chime with what I would describe as a plagiarist so I looked
    up the definition of plagiarism in the Oxford English Dictionary. It said to 'take
    (the work or idea of someone else) and pretend it is one's own work'.\r\nSo John,
    I will refrain from telling you to \"grow up\", but you are plain and simply wrong
    in your definition of plagiarism. You have to steal the work first before you
    can steal credit for it. Miha did not steal Steve Wozniak's work, anyone else's
    work, nor pretend it was his own work. Yes, he claimed to be a 'first' but he
    did not steal someone else's work and pass it off as a 'first', he applied it
    to his own work. But I agree Miha's claim should be accurate and thus changed
    if proven false. Similarly you should retract your claim of plagiarism as it is
    based on your faulty definition and is not true.\r\n\r\nConflict resolution\r\n\r\nGiven
    my ignorance and the esoteric nature of the topic it would appear to me the accuracy
    of Miha's claim to 'First handmade subpixel type family, ever' would be simply
    resolved by John supplying not a multitude of ripostes and weblinks but a simple
    image (with provenance) that we can all see immediately proves his point. To do
    this, in my mind, it must satisfy all the following criteria in order to convince
    Miha his claim needs to be amended:\r\n\r\n    a subpixel font showing a family
    of weights, not just a single weight, which have not been generated automatically
    but where the subpixel composition of the different weights of characters was
    selected and refined by human not machine.\r\n\r\nI hope Miha is happy that my
    wording matches his claim.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n \r\n"
  created: '2009-09-23 15:53:44'
- author:
    name: chris_n
  body: "guys i found out why john is so pissed....\r\n\r\nhttp://profile.ak.fbcdn.net/profile5/1091/18/n662132227_8727.jpg\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/n662132227_8727_5363.jpg]"
  created: '2009-09-23 17:55:16'
- author:
    name: dontbugme
    picture: 110809
  body: "I got linked to this from YouTube's blog, and I say JOB WELL DONE to Miha!
    \ To affect the change of a Top 10 internet site's Favicon is extremely impressive,
    indeed.  More impressive than anything Mr. Troll claims to have done, without
    a doubt.\r\n\r\nI am nearly crying with laughter after reading this comment by
    aluminium:\r\n\"I propose we just change the name of the thread to:\r\nFirst handmade
    subpixel type family, ever*\"!!!  LMAO!!  And to see it was truly changed.  Troll
    begone!\r\n\r\nClearly StoneCypher doesn't play well with others, lacks even Kindergarten-level
    social skills and does have a Messiah complex as others have noted.  Forum moderators,
    proceed with the ban hammer."
  created: '2009-09-24 04:56:43'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: "<cite>Firefox warned me against accessing the website John supplied, so,
    from a different website http://www.freepatentsonline.com/4079458.pdf, I see the
    inventors for Patent 4079458 \u2019High resolution character generator\u2019 are
    listed as: Rider, Ronald E. (Menlo Park, CA) and Lampson, Butler W. (Portola Valley,
    CA) with Assignee as Xerox Corporation. Where\u2019s Wozniak? Where\u2019s Apple?</cite>\r\n\r\nApple
    and Xerox have a long standing relationship.  HRCG is Apple's commercialization
    of Xerox' technology.  It's relatively easy to find examples of output, or to
    get copies of the DOS Tool Kit ][ disk, which still has a copy of HRCG, for emulators.
    \ This is the relationship which later led Apple to commercialize Xerox' GUI technology
    as the Lisa, then later the Macintosh.  Most of the technologies commonly ascribed
    to Apple's early wizardry actually came from the Xerox Palo Alto Research Center.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.mrob.com/pub/xapple2/index.html\r\n\r\n<cite>In
    the patent I do not see any typefaces let alone type families</cite>\r\n\r\nNot
    particularly surprising.  However, with cursory research, they're easily findable,
    for example at that page I just gave you.  They're also all over a bunch of my
    other links.  I'm sure you'll manage.\r\n\r\n<cite>Then on the Wikipedia page
    on subpixel rendering http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sub_pixel_rendering does not
    appear to tally with John\u2019s opinions.</cite>\r\n\r\nhttp://sc.tri-bit.com/outgoing/NeverBelieveWikipediaTechnicalArticles.png\r\n\r\n<cite>However,
    the method Gibson describes can also be viewed as a limitation of the way the
    machine generates color, rather than as a technique intentionally exploited by
    programmers to increase resolution</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's a little like saying that
    the method Ford describes can also be viewed as a limitation of the way engine
    blocks stably store gasoline, rather than as a technique intentionally exploited
    by engineers to derive motive force from explosions.\r\n\r\nYou know, in that
    it's completely wrong-headed and ignores the clearly stated intents of the programmers
    in question when explaining their system in public.  And also, that it misses
    the significant increase in resolution as compared to the prior text system, which
    used how the monitor actually worked to produce letters that looked less good.\r\n\r\nIt
    would be best if you considered the quality of the sentiment before citing it
    as contrary evidence.  Whoever wrote that is the reason Wikipedia is not taken
    seriously as a source.\r\n\r\n<cite>The definition did not chime with what I would
    describe as a plagiarist so I looked up the definition of plagiarism in the Oxford
    English Dictionary. It said to \u2019take (the work or idea of someone else) and
    pretend it is one\u2019s own work\u2019.</cite>\r\n\r\nContrary to popular belief,
    the OED isn't actually a very good lexicon; they shovel anything they can half-explain
    sideways into the book, because size, rather than selectivity or quality, is the
    OED's selling point.  A better dictionary of British English is the Collins; I
    personally prefer the American Heritage.\r\n\r\nThat said, yes, that's exactly
    what's being done here.  To take the idea of someone else and pretend it is one's
    own work.  I fail to see why that's difficult to associate.\r\n\r\n<cite>Miha
    did not steal Steve Wozniak\u2019s work</cite>\r\n\r\nNo, but the idea, yes.  You're
    narrowing that definition too much, and in direct contrast to how I explicitly
    used it.  The definition supports my usage explicitly, albeit parenthetically.\r\n\r\nWhich
    is silly, since their parenthetical is actually the primary, not the secondary,
    meaning of the word.\r\n\r\n<cite>So John, I will refrain from telling you to
    \u201Cgrow up\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\nApparently you will not.\r\n\r\n<cite>but you
    are plain and simply wrong in your definition of plagiarism.</cite>\r\n\r\nWell,
    you've chosen a very poor source, for one, but frankly I don't see the definition
    you've cut and pasted disagreeing with me.\r\n\r\n<cite>But I agree Miha\u2019s
    claim should be accurate and thus changed if proven false.</cite>\r\n\r\nEr.  Are
    you taking the remarkable position that in that list containing ten websites at
    least ten years old which contain downloadable subpixel font families made by
    hand, that this falsification has not yet occurred?\r\n\r\nI confess I'm not sure
    what to say to that.\r\n\r\n<cite>simple image (with provenance) that we can all
    see immediately proves his point.</cite>\r\n\r\nEr, I provided several.  I even
    took the time to point out which ones had such screen shots.\r\n\r\nHowever, if
    you cannot be bothered to click several links before telling me I haven't made
    my point, here's one of many such examples, which is in the monochrome editor,
    but otherwise contains all the information you need.  This is a grid mapping;
    it reduces in width by half when displayed, but could not be done so in realtime
    due to the way Apple ][ character sets were loaded into video memory during the
    boot process for an application.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.mrob.com/apple2/lin32-set.jpg\r\n\r\nIt
    only shows one of the weights at a time, but given the limitations of the machines
    of the late 1970s, and the fact that it's discussing the font name, character
    set and weight on screen, I hope you'll trust that screenshot in as far as to
    actually look this stuff up before questioning its already linked veracity again.\r\n\r\nFrankly
    I'm not used to being asked to repeat easy research on grounds that the proof
    already given is too voluminous.  It's quite frustrating, as is the exceptionally
    poor behavior of the people complaining about my behavior.  A fine round of Tu
    Quoque for all.\r\n\r\nI retain my observation that anyone who bothers to look
    into the matter even slightly will find pile after pile of evidence.\r\n\r\n<strong>Miha</strong>:
    Please amend this blog title to be honest soon as you already promised twice,
    thanks."
  created: '2009-09-24 06:42:20'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: "DontBugMe: That would be primarily because I haven't claimed to have achieved
    anything here.  That said, subpixelling an icon is tremendously simple work; subpixelling
    the YouTube icon is about a ten minute job.  Give it a try yourself, using the
    rules I outlined above, the tutorial I wrote on how to do that in 2005, or the
    editor I half-wrote and posted in the links.\r\n\r\nOr, you could use the subpixel
    icon editor I wrote for the Nintendo DS in 2006, which runs natively on the embedded
    hardware and gives you the use of the pen and touchscreen.\r\n\r\nSeriously, it's
    really easy to subpixel an icon; you should try it, as it's an interesting learning
    experience.  Would you like for me to subpixel your favicon, to make the point?
    \ It would need to be relatively monochromatic outside the green range.\r\n\r\nWhich
    is not to suggest that those accomplishments I just listed, which are germane,
    are in any way impressive; writing embedded software for a closed videogame platform
    isn't that big a deal.\r\n\r\nBut I do believe it compares favorably with a subpixel
    icon.\r\n\r\nIncidentally, did you notice that the favicon for my site is subpixel
    also, and has a file date of 2006?  I didn't bring it up because it's not actually
    that much to crow about, but maybe it'll help you with that trying to make comparisons
    thing of yours.  I didn't want to compare myself to Miha, but you've sort of forced
    my hand.  It's unfortunate.\r\n\r\nAlso, you might want to look up the several
    subpixel fonts I released several years ago; they were much more work than the
    favicon.  I suspect Miha will say the same thing; fonts are way, way harder than
    a single tiny geometrically aligned icon."
  created: '2009-09-24 06:53:35'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: "chris_n: In the future, please use the canonical URL, in case I some year
    bother to update my picture.  That URL is\r\n\r\nhttp://fullof.bs/outgoing/ILookTehDumm.jpg\r\n\r\nThanks
    kindly."
  created: '2009-09-24 07:02:00'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "StoneCypher,\r\n\r\nYou've made your point, and I understand your argument.
    However, you are now doing nothing but turning this thread into rubbish by harassing
    people and throwing a temper tantrum, and we are getting complaints about your
    behavior. By all means, continue to discuss this in a civil manner as you clearly
    have a lot of knowledge to share and we welcome that, but tone down the insults.\r\n\r\nChill
    out - we won't tolerate bullying behavior, so I recommend you take it offline.\r\n\r\nTypophile"
  created: '2009-09-24 19:20:27'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: "Zara: The fact remains that things are still dishonest here.  I am at this
    point only replying to people like you and repeating my request calmly and politely.\r\n\r\nDisengage
    the \"stop insulting people\" rhetoric.  It's been days since I've said anything
    remotely insulting, and it's disinteresting on grounds that you ignore the people
    here actually participating in serious insults, posting of personal information
    and threats.\r\n\r\nI respect that you are staff, but it is inappropriate for
    you to apply rules to just one person, when so many people here are behaving so
    much more seriously.\r\n\r\nPlease apply your rules to everyone equally, if at
    all.  Thank you.  Your reaction in the future will make clear whether Typophile
    is in any way bothered by well documented fictions.\r\n\r\nIn the meantime, you
    have false claims on your site.  Will you please step in soon?  The nature of
    this post is entirely inappropriate.\r\n\r\nJohn Haugeland is http://fullof.bs/"
  created: '2009-09-24 22:57:55'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: "Incidentally, to everyone telling me I've made my point, as long as the false
    claims are retained, I clearly have not; you might consider discussing this with
    me in a different fashion, as that viewpoint will not sway me.\r\n\r\nI'm not
    here to have my say.  I'm here to right a wrong.  The wrong is not righted, so
    I will continue to calmly, politely ask for this site's staff to correct a false
    claim.\r\n\r\nThis is not as unreasonable as this crowd continues to paint it
    as being."
  created: '2009-09-24 23:01:04'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "John, thanks for your kind words, and for you e-mails. I expect I will see
    more of those in the future.\r\n\r\nIn the mean time, I suggest everyone simply
    ignore this guy, he is harmless and he is clearly on a mission for attention.
    If in fact his claims have any legal consequences (copyright, intellectual property,
    etc), then please present legitimate information clearly so we can take action,
    if necessary."
  created: '2009-09-24 23:23:08'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Aluminum: ROTFLWCMEO\r\n\r\n(Ahem, that's rolling on the floor laughing while
    crying my eyes out.)"
  created: '2009-09-25 00:01:25'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: 'There, I did what I could. Enjoy. '
  created: '2009-09-25 00:05:37'
- author:
    name: Bloodtype
    picture: 114182
  body: Stoney babes, are you sure you're not just a complete penis?
  created: '2009-09-25 00:24:03'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: '@Bloodtype. Dude. Uncalled for. Seriously.'
  created: '2009-09-25 00:49:23'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: 'Bloodtype: Surprisingly, I''m actually just one person.  The pluralization
    is unneeded.'
  created: '2009-09-25 01:05:18'
- author:
    name: Bloodtype
    picture: 114182
  body: "If I may quote your website, \r\n\r\nhttp://fullof.bs/files/2009/08/DesignersWhoThinkTheyMatter.png\r\n\r\n\"Designers
    usually use Mac's, they're so stupid. But programmers that can also design (like
    me) know better. Who would hire a designer when you can hire a programmer slash
    designer that can do it all!\"\r\n\r\nThis suggests that you hold designers generally
    in low esteem, as well as design itself. Miha's exuberance in finishing a wonderful
    typeface comes from an artistic temperament that you most likely don't have. You
    may think more logically in zeroes and ones, rather than laterally and creatively.
    This is very useful for computer programming but not so much for design. I don't
    know if it has been suggested to you that you might have borderline Asperger's
    syndrome, but this is something worth asking your doctor about.\r\n\r\nI think
    your talents lie more in the programming area than in design. Most people looking
    at your website would conclude that it could do with a designer's touch.\r\n\r\nYour's
    in good faith."
  created: '2009-09-25 01:07:50'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: "@JoePemberton: I'm really not worried about what people say to me; I'm a
    harsh man and I would be a hypocrite to complain about what others say to or about
    me if I didn't allow others to be harsh towards me, and the tone has been thoroughly
    set here by the significantly more severe things other people have said.  Since
    Zara failed to say anything to the various highly abusive regulars here, thereby
    implicitly condoning this behavior here, I would contend that Bloodtype is just
    following the social norm at this site.  (Besides, Bloodtype is right; I am a
    penis.)\r\n\r\nActually I find it vaguely amusing, though I admit I wish they'd
    be a bit less repetitive.  The use of my photo by chris_n made me lol hard, as
    did DontBugMe's suggestion that I think I'm jesus; I wish other people would put
    in that level of effort to be novel.  It'd make the rahr worth reading.\r\n\r\nAll
    I want is for this well explained as false claim to come down.  I don't see what
    is so difficult here: this isn't the first handmade subpixel type family ever
    - not even close - and Miha should not be attempting to gather notoriety for something
    he didn't do.\r\n\r\nAnd then I'll happily disappear like so much smoke in the
    wind, because it's obvious that despite the answers and information I've brought,
    I'm not wanted here.  That's fine.\r\n\r\nBut I do want to see this false claim
    come down.  It's a simple matter of integrity.  \r\n\r\nI genuinely don't understand
    why the editing of a false claim title seems like something other than the obviously
    right thing to do here."
  created: '2009-09-25 01:08:03'
- author:
    name: Bloodtype
    picture: 114182
  body: But can't you see the joy in the title; this is an artist expressing their
    pleasure in a job well. Miha isn't submitting a patent, just sharing her work
    with (hopefully) like-minded fellows. All the people you've mentioned have had
    their work out there. Miha hasn't ripped them off. Believe me, I know what it's
    like when an idea I've had gets nicked before I've had a chance to put it out
    there. Miha hasn't deprived anyone else of income or kudos, and that is the important
    thing. The wording of the title of his/her offering is relatively unimportant.
  created: '2009-09-25 01:18:39'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: "Bloodtype: \r\n\r\n\"This suggests that you hold designers generally in low
    esteem\"\r\n\r\nIt's an understandable mistake to make. I didn't make that comic,
    nor did I write that text, actually.  It comes from a website called http://businessguysonbusinesstrips.com/
    .  My attention to that comic was the claim that developers were stupid, by someone
    with limited grammar skills.\r\n\r\nI have a great respect for designers, because
    they fulfill one of the few roles in the software development process I cannot
    fulfill myself.  The reason my relationships with my designers are so good is
    that I take very good care of my staff and respect them for their work.\r\n\r\n\"Miha\u2019s
    exuberance in finishing a wonderful typeface comes from an artistic temperament
    that you most likely don\u2019t have.\"\r\n\r\nYou're welcome to your opinion.
    \ I would point out that you don't actually know anything about me other than
    how I react to false claims by a typographer.\r\n\r\n\"You may think more logically
    in zeroes and ones, rather than laterally and creatively.\"\r\n\r\nI may.  Or
    I may not.  Speculation doesn't do you much good here, and I'm actually closer
    to being an artist than I am to a developer, though neither label applies particularly
    well.\r\n\r\n\"I don\u2019t know if it has been suggested to you that you might
    have borderline Asperger\u2019s syndrome\"\r\n\r\nPlease be serious.  An Asperger's
    victim doesn't communicate well with others, and would never have written any
    of this in the first place, no matter how they felt.  I don't think you should
    probably attempt to make future psychological assessments of people you don't
    know.  It's not very compelling.  But that's just my opinion.\r\n\r\nIncidentally,
    I very much hope there are no Asperger's victims reading this.  If there are,
    you just made them all very sad, by pretending that a guy who's angry must have
    their disease, and that their disease causes angry behavior.  It does not, and
    it's inappropriate to use psychological disorders to shame people in public, because
    the people who actually have those disorders can become very hurt by that.\r\n\r\n\"I
    think your talents lie more in the programming area than in design.\"\r\n\r\nYou
    know as little about my talents as you do about my mental state, good sir.  I
    am disinterested in future speculation on the matter, though I've no doubt that
    won't stop you from trying.  Typically after Asperger's, the armchair psychiatrist
    goes for obsessive compulsive disorder, depression, schizophrenia or schizoaffective
    disorder, psychosis, paranoia (as was used earlier by someone else who is confused
    about what they understand) or psychopathy.\r\n\r\nIt's a hilariously varied,
    unrelated and inapplicable bunch, but I'd like you to have a broad palette to
    choose from when feigning the ability to diagnose people as a medical doctor.\r\n\r\nIf
    you're looking for something more exotic, Porphyria is nice this time of year.\r\n\r\n\"Most
    people looking at your website would conclude that it could do with a designer\u2019s
    touch.\"\r\n\r\nThat would be because the CSS is currently broken by a malfunctioning
    SEO plugin that I'm too lazy to fix.  A swing and a miss; the design was actually
    made by one of the most successful video game artists in the Nintendo gaming community,
    and I get compliments on the skin at the rate of several a day from strangers.\r\n\r\nI
    tried looking for your web page to offer return commentary, but Google has no
    idea who you are, other than a largely obscured linkedin page.\r\n\r\nMy opinion,
    given the success rate of your guesses, is that you should probably stop."
  created: '2009-09-25 01:31:32'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: "And for future reference, programmers don't think in ones and zeros any more
    than artists think in terms of the crystallographic refraction index of their
    paint.\r\n\r\nJohn Haugeland is http://fullof.bs/"
  created: '2009-09-25 01:34:41'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: "\"But can\u2019t you see the joy in the title; this is an artist expressing
    their pleasure in a job well.\"\r\n\r\nJoy does not excuse falsehood.  If I'm
    happy about the new video game I just wrote, should I call it the first video
    game ever?\r\n\r\n\"Miha hasn\u2019t ripped them off.\"\r\n \r\nWe disagree.  My
    opinion is that claiming the first ever is an enormous ripoff to the dozens of
    people who beat him to it by decades.\r\n\r\nI would make an example by claiming
    rights to some of your work, but I can't find any.\r\n\r\n\"Believe me, I know
    what it\u2019s like when an idea I\u2019ve had gets nicked before I\u2019ve had
    a chance to put it out there.\"\r\n\r\nThat's a very different situation.  Being
    beaten to the punch is a bear, sure, but that isn't what's happened here at all.
    \ Miha would need a time machine and 30 years of time gasoline for this viewpoint
    to be appropriate.\r\n\r\n\"Miha hasn\u2019t deprived anyone else of income or
    kudos\"\r\n\r\nThe former, no.  The latter, we disagree: Google now attributes
    this significant technical success of yester-year to Miha.  That is depriving
    the appropriate people of kudos.\r\n\r\n\"The wording of the title of his/her
    offering is relatively unimportant.\"\r\n\r\nThe fact that someone looking into
    the history of subpixel fonts now thinks that Miha came up with this in 2009 is
    contrary to this viewpoint.\r\n\r\nHowever, this is a matter of opinion, so I
    cannot say that you are wrong, only that we disagree strenuously.\r\n\r\nI appreciate
    that you've become civil."
  created: '2009-09-25 01:35:46'
- author:
    name: Bloodtype
    picture: 114182
  body: "John, if someone googles \"first subpixel font\" or whatever, they'll only
    find Miha's claim to it (plus your numerous counter-claims), not the definitive
    answer. You'd be a fool to think you could find proof of anything in a quick web
    search. As far as Asperger's Syndrome goes, I do have some knowledge of it from
    my brother. I am certainly no psychologist; I suffer from depression and I hate
    it when people say they're depressed when what they really mean is temporarily
    sad. Suffering from mental illness has given me some perspective and a keen interest
    in the whole spectrum, I certainly wasn't trying to shame you.\r\n\r\n\"I would
    make an example by claiming rights to some of your work, but I can't find any.\"\r\n\r\nWhatever
    anyone has said about you, I think you must agree that the above statement is
    both aggressive and deeply unpleasant. Just because I haven't as yet made my work
    available on the Worldwide Interweb, it doesn't mean I haven't done any, and your
    rank arrogance in suggesting that you would, \"make an example by claiming rights\"
    to it is hopefully beneath you.\r\n\r\n\"If I'm happy about the new video game
    I just wrote, should I call it the first video game ever?\"\r\n\r\nHell yeah!
    In that moment in time. It may be cheeky, it may be flawed. These words weren't
    carved in stone, they were genuine feelings expressed by someone whom it would
    be difficult to label a rip-off merchant. And if a google search proves him wrong
    then so be it, or if he contends it doesn't, then argue away forever, but maybe
    focus your energy on other projects, as I hope to do mine.\r\n\r\nAnyway, that
    was my best attempt at proper writing. \r\nNice chatting with you,\r\nOwen"
  created: '2009-09-25 03:07:45'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: "<cite>\"You\u2019d be a fool to think you could find proof of anything in
    a quick web search.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nActually, I was able to find quite a bit of
    proof with quick google searches some time, and I documented such here.  Perhaps
    you should catch up on the thread before making further sweeping generalizations.\r\n\r\nPatents
    exist for the sole reason of establishing order of primacy proof.\r\n\r\nIt is
    amusing to see you say \"you'd be a fool to think you could do that thing you
    just did a couple of days ago\", though.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"As far as Asperger\u2019s
    Syndrome goes, I do have some knowledge of it from my brother.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    am not interested, and I confess to having a very difficult time believing someone
    who has this terrible affliction in their family would make such a crass and grossly
    inappropriate claim in public.  Do not follow this line of reasoning any further.
    \ Your behavior is highly inappropriate.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"I certainly wasn't trying
    to shame you.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nRiiiiiiight.  You just speculated on my mental health
    in public based on a dislike for the things I said, and told me to go to a doctor
    and ask whether I had mental health problems because I chose to stand up and say
    \"this dishonesty isn't right.\"\r\n\r\nYou undermine yourself by saying such
    transparent things.  \r\n\r\n<cite>\"\u201CI would make an example by claiming
    rights to some of your work, but I can\u2019t find any.\u201D\r\n\r\nWhatever
    anyone has said about you, I think you must agree that the above statement is
    both aggressive and deeply unpleasant.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nI most certainly do not.
    \ It's a simple thing to say: I'd try to show you how it feels for someone to
    make a claim to your work inappropriately, but I spent about 30 seconds looking
    for some and gave up because it was boring to search for things I couldn't find
    under a relatively common name.  There's nothing aggressive or unpleasant about
    it.  I think you should read the things you're saying to me before making so much
    as a single more comment about my being unpleasant; your behavior is far worse
    than that about which you complain (which seems to be de rigeur here.)\r\n\r\nCertainly
    someone who speculates about people's mental health in public should feel it relatively
    difficult to claim that someone else who said \"I stopped googling\" is being
    unpleasant.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"Just because I haven\u2019t as yet made my work available
    on the Worldwide Interweb, it doesn\u2019t mean I haven\u2019t done any\"</cite>\r\n\r\n(blinks)
    \ Who said you hadn't done any?  I just said I couldn't find some to use as an
    example.  It's not really fair for you to get angry at me for things I didn't
    say.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"and your rank arrogance\"</cite>\r\n\r\nAh yes, I'm the aggressive
    one.  For saying I couldn't find something on Google which apparently isn't on
    the web at all.  Which empowers you to call me \"rank arrogan[t]\", because apparently
    either arrogance has an aroma or a position in a heirarchy.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"in
    suggesting that you would, \u201Cmake an example by claiming rights\u201D to it
    is hopefully beneath you.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nI can't even figure out what you're
    trying to say.  It should be beneath me to describe as a thought experiment that
    hypothetically I made claim to your work while saying I was pretending it to show
    you why it was hurtful?\r\n\r\n... I just don't see what you're angry about here.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"\u201CIf
    I\u2019m happy about the new video game I just wrote, should I call it the first
    video game ever?\u201D\r\n\r\nHell yeah!\"</cite>\r\n\r\nAt this point it becomes
    clear that I should not be listening to you.  You are advising me to be dishonest
    on grounds of pride.\r\n\r\nNo thanks.\r\n\r\n<cite>In that moment in time. It
    may be cheeky, it may be flawed.</cite>\r\n\r\nNo.  It's called a \"blatant lie\".
    \ If you are unfamiliar with the difference between cheeky and flawed, and lying
    openly about your accomplishments to garner notoriety, then I'm just not sure
    what to tell you.\r\n\r\nIt is never appropriate to claim a world first when you
    know for a fact it isn't true.  Lying has nothing to do with being proud or being
    cheeky.  It has to do with having a serious character failure and an infamiliarity
    with basic adult behavior.\r\n\r\nThe reason the word \"liar\" hurts so much is
    that you're supposed to be horrified at the idea of being one.  It's not an invitation
    to mince it into carefully re-framed spin that makes it look like repeated false
    claims to world firsts are just someone taking pride in their work.\r\n\r\nThey
    aren't, and it's a sentiment which is toxic to civilization.  It's so toxic in
    fact that it's illegal in most of the modern world for a journalist to knowingly
    lie.\r\n\r\nAny further advice you give on what makes it okay to make statements
    which one knows to be false will make it fundamentally impossible to listen to
    you, I'm afraid.  If your goal is to talk, great, keep it up.  If your goal is
    to discuss and be listened to, find something to say which isn't pretending it's
    okay to lie in public because it makes you feel good.  It isn't, and merely reciting
    the idea makes most listener's stomachs queasy.\r\n\r\n<cite>These words weren\u2019t
    carved in stone, they were genuine feelings expressed by someone whom it would
    be difficult to label a rip-off merchant.</cite>\r\n\r\nMaking claims to world
    firsts isn't a \"genuine feeling\", it's a falsehood.  This isn't a therapy session.
    \ It's a known to be false claim to accomplishment which is being published and
    re-published, and no matter how many times you try to find some way to slice and
    dice that until it looks like something different, that remains the fundamental
    nature of this issue.\r\n\r\n<cite>whom it would be difficult to label a rip-off
    merchant.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt'd also be difficult to label them a basketball player.
    \ Luckily I didn't use either phrase.  Please refrain from further straw men.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"but
    maybe focus your energy on other projects\"</cite>\r\n\r\nThis isn't a project.
    \ This is a promise to an aggrieved friend."
  created: '2009-09-25 04:06:23'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Can we bring this thread back on topic?
  created: '2009-09-25 12:14:36'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'My cat''s breath smells like cat food. '
  created: '2009-09-25 18:03:32'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "Another sub-pixel typeface could have been created in the time it took John
    to craft all his posts. John, why don't you post some of your work? Let's talk
    about that instead of sitting here wasting time on this battle of the alpha males.\r\n\r\nIf
    this childish bickering doesn't come to a halt, I will close the thread to additional
    comments."
  created: '2009-09-25 19:50:16'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "I do not have a dog in this hunt, but have found it enlightening , disheartening
    and in a perverted sense, fun.\r\n\r\nI would rather see this resolved than close
    it because of \"childish bickering!\"\r\n\r\nSure John can be a &*)%#$@! (so can
    I) but WHAT IS the definitive answer? He has shown himself to be quite knowledgeable,
    albeit a bit gruff. \r\n\r\nAs to the alpha male crap... just say \"Can't we all
    just get along,\" instead of we do not believe in free speech! I hate PC crap.\r\n\r\nAnd,
    no, I do not like it either, but it seems things are being left unresolved!\r\n\r\nMichael\r\n\r\np.s.
    Zara, if I read between the lines of your post you are being confrontational and
    demeaning!\r\n\r\np.s.s. the title is a pretty ballsy claim."
  created: '2009-09-25 23:36:57'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "OK, well it seems the community has spoken and they would like for this kind
    of behavior to continue, so I will stay out of entirely.\r\n\r\nPlease contact
    your moderators when issues and conflicts arise - not me.\r\nhttp://typophile.com/moderators"
  created: '2009-09-25 23:58:59'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Zara et aliae: John/StoneCypher *did* post links to his work, as well as
    the work of others. After a ton of reading over the past couple of evenings (because
    I think sub-pixel anti-aliasing is interesting), I am of the opinion the links
    pretty thoroughly back up his claims, even though some relate to automated processes.
    Whether he's been insensitive, confrontational, or a jerk is an orthogonal issue
    to whether he's right. I'm utterly convinced that with regards to the facts that
    he is indeed right, and has been pretty clear. His demeanor does not constitute
    justifiable grounds for ignoring facts.\r\n\r\nI still think Miha's fonts are
    cool. But they're not the first ever of their kind, is all. Possible the first
    done so small?\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-09-26 00:04:03'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Thank you Thomas!\r\n\r\nI just sent a prayer to Zara asking her to reach
    out to a \"knowing source\" and you of course have appeared as the knight in shining
    armour. Well, at least at our age it is a bit dinged and dull, but you still stepped
    up to the plate.\r\n\r\nI did not care who was right, I just wanted some knowledgeable
    person to step forward. \r\n\r\nAs I told Zara... I have learned more about something
    I knew nothing about than in any other post on this site. Cool. But I cannot see
    doing a 4 point Chancery:>)\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-09-26 00:39:48'
- author:
    name: muji
  body: "Thomas\r\n\r\nI'm glad you trawled through the long list as I gave up when
    I didn't immediately see a definitive 'answer'.\r\n\r\nI understand that Miha
    has conceded that the claim 'first handmade subpixel type' would be inaccurate
    but that he believes the prior existence of a 'type family' has not been proven.\r\n\r\nI
    have looked at the example John gave me http://www.mrob.com/pub/xapple2/index.html
    which contained two images showing a pixel font with upper and lower case, in
    'thick' and 'thin'.\r\n\r\nIf a typeface simply with more than one weight can
    by definition be called a family, then it's a family. In my eyes, however, the
    normal expectation of a 'family' for a regular text font is to see at least italic
    versions of roman and bold as well. As I personally would have difficulty in describing
    just any two weights a family I looked up a dozen or so definitions and the combination
    roman-italic-bold-bold italic was generally given as the basic example of a font
    family which matches the family Miha has designed.\r\n\r\nSo, among all John's
    links was there an example of 'handmade subpixel type' we can all see that shows
    a typeface with a family of weights rather than just 'thick' and 'thin'? This
    would solve the dispute very simply. Without one I can understand why Miha is
    sticking to his 'first' as his type is based on a traditional type family.\r\n\r\nIf
    Miha's claim is proven to be inaccurate then perhaps the 3 pixel x-height is new?
    I'm sure John will let us know if he thinks it's not.\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-26 11:16:33'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: I do believe StoneCypher works for Fox News. He's done an excellent job at
    derailing a conversation and directing it towards a heated and strongly worded
    debate on an issue that really isn't germane to the original subject matter. Well
    done!
  created: '2009-09-26 15:38:01'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "Thomas, do you really think John Haugeland is right? I've asked for a handmade
    subpixel type family already in my first reply to him, but really couldn't find
    any. Is there a specific link that convinced you? [[http://web.archive.org/web/19990128033152/http://www.airwindows.com/shareware/fonts/index.html|The
    link]] to time machine looked promising on the first sight, but there is only
    greyscale antialiasing.\r\n\r\nThe criticism for my title could be that it is
    just nitpicking \u2013 heck, the difference between first whole family and first
    typeface with one style is small, it's just a small step forward with evolutionary
    nature. Thinking more if this title really matters I came to conclusion that it
    doesn't, typeface is already special, it would be more important to make it better
    than wasting my energy here. Besides, there is a possibility that we can't know
    the truth because such typeface isn't/wasn't documented on internet. I didn't
    change the title because it would look like that I believe John Haugeland is right.\r\n\r\nNow,
    I have to say <em>I have so enough</em> reading this thread. There was very little
    discussion, impoliteness by various users (yeah, haven't <em>ever</em> seen that
    in such extend here!), moderators commenting only after a few days, and one moderator
    stoped moderating. Thomas \u2013 I respect your opinion and I will be glad to
    change the title as you think it is the best, even if I will disagree with you."
  created: '2009-09-26 15:57:19'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: "\"Another sub-pixel typeface could have been created in the time it took
    John to craft all his posts. John, why don\u2019t you post some of your work?\"\r\n\r\nI
    did.  Maybe you should actually take the time to read the thread soon.\r\n\r\n\"Let\u2019s
    talk about that instead of sitting here wasting time on this battle of the alpha
    males.\"\r\n\r\nYeah, an alpha male is actually someone who gets into physical
    fights in order to secure breeding rights, not someone who stands up against an
    ethical wrong.\r\n\r\n<em><strong>Typerror</strong></em>: I appreciate the show
    of support.\r\n\r\n<em><strong>Thomas Phinney</strong></em>: Depends on how you
    look at it, if you'll pardon the pun.  I have seen smaller fonts, but they aren't
    complete, and they aren't families.  I've seen fonts that are taller but thinner
    (and made one such.)  I've seen fonts which are shorter but wider.  I have not
    seen subpixel fonts with this small a text footprint, which is the metric I usually
    use personally.  I have actually seen (and personally written) binary fonts smaller
    than this - I made a complete IBM high ascii codepage in 3x4 pixel - but it's
    whole pixel, not subpixel, and also not antialiased (it was made to make a game
    called Rogue on the old Sega VMU, which had a 48x32 monochrome discale screen.)\r\n\r\n<em><strong>Aluminum</strong></em>:
    Cute.  You're welcome for that detailed answer I gave you to your question, by
    the way.\r\n\r\n<em><strong>Miha</strong></em>: You're just looking for excuses
    at this point.  That font does have bold and italic variations.  You'd know that
    if you had just looked once at the rest of the examples; that's from the original
    list, and the original link shows the rest of that family, which not only has
    bold and italic, but also outline, emboss and ridge.  So do half a dozen other
    links from that list.  Stop claiming knowledge on the topic when you won't even
    read the links given to you.\r\n\r\n<cite>I\u2019ve asked for a handmade subpixel
    type family already in my first reply to him, but really couldn\u2019t find any.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's
    because you won't read the links given to you.  I even pointed one out explicitly
    from the list before you went onto this new tangent as being families at various
    sizes, weights, slantings and so forth.  It's the one that comes from archive.org.
    \ There are half a dozen families on that page alone.  I've also reminded you
    about this twice; it's clear that the reason \"you can't find any\" is because
    you refuse to read the people who are showing you where they are.\r\n\r\n<cite>but
    there is only greyscale antialiasing.</cite>\r\n\r\nRight, which is why the second
    paragraph reads as this exactly opposite statement:\r\n\r\n<cite>Airwindows formally
    thanks Microsoft for devising ClearType, and thereby figuring ways to add strange
    color casts to type on LCD screens, while simultaneously reinventing a technique
    they may well have first heard of from me.</cite>\r\n\r\nMaybe you should look
    again?  Those are not grayscale anti-aliased (well, all subpixel fonts are actually
    grayscale anti-alised; it's images imitating subpixel fonts which have colors.
    \ But I already explained that to you, and it appears you weren't listening.)\r\n\r\nWillful
    ignorance is not a good excuse for false claims.\r\n\r\n<cite>I didn\u2019t change
    the title because it would look like that I believe John Haugeland is right.</cite>\r\n\r\nYep.
    \ That's exactly why I tried to be harsh with you: it's the only way to reach
    people who are digging in their heels, refusing to believe the obvious truth,
    taking only cursory examples out of single points full of lists of evidence, missing
    the text that comes up by the second paragraph even when the link list explicitly
    points it out beforehand in prophylaxis, and _still_ manages to think it isn't
    true.\r\n\r\nUnfortunately, Aluminium has already used the Fox News joke.\r\n\r\n<cite>heck,
    the difference between first whole family and first typeface with one style is
    small, it\u2019s just a small step forward with evolutionary nature.</cite>\r\n\r\nWell,
    it would be, if the first time this was invented this hadn't been deployed as
    a family.  As you've already been notified repeatedly, of course, the earliest
    example I've been able to find is the Apple ][, wherein bold, italic and bold-italic
    were part of the very first family, so there's no evolution involved, that's just
    how it was done from day one.\r\n\r\n<cite>Thinking more if this title really
    matters I came to conclusion that it doesn\u2019t, typeface is already special</cite>\r\n\r\nGood,
    then you should have no problem removing the false claim, since it doesn't matter
    to you, and resting solely on the special-ness of the typeface.\r\n\r\n<strong><em>Muji</em></strong>:
    \"So, among all John\u2019s links was there an example of \u2019handmade subpixel
    type\u2019 we can all see that shows a typeface with a family of weights rather
    than just \u2019thick\u2019 and \u2019thin\u2019?\"\r\n\r\nYes, the very first
    example has normal, bold, italic, bold-italic, underline, bold-underline, and
    cursive, bold-cursive, underline-cursive and bold-underline-cursive (which may
    or may not be a separate font depending on how you look at it, as it only replaces
    the letter faces and the digits.)\r\n\r\nAlso, several of the gameboy advance
    and DS examples I gave have entire families, and as I pointed out, I converted
    about a dozen of Microsoft's fonts at various weights, slants and sizes (mind
    you, I had to go back and hand-pixel them, because ClearType's hinting falls apart
    below eight pixel em-height.)\r\n\r\nFurthermore, the archive.org site has about
    three times as much work as I did, and beat me to the punch by some unknown amount
    of time, but at least seven years and probably substantially more than that.\r\n\r\n<cite>perhaps
    the 3 pixel x-height is new?</cite>\r\n\r\nNope.  Indeed I've seen subpixel fonts
    with x-heights of two.  At this size, I often find it more productive to discuss
    em-heights; the small glyph height at this size often has to vary (for example,
    most hand-drawn small fonts of em-height 4 have an x-height of 2, but allow lower
    case S, Z and so on to go up to 3.)  Also, it's occasionally important to discuss
    raw glyph height, because at this size sometimes a letter with a descender is
    up-shifted positionally to make due.\r\n\r\n<cite>I looked up a dozen or so definitions
    and the combination roman-italic-bold-bold italic was generally given as the basic
    example of a font family</cite>\r\n\r\nWell, I wasn't really going to bring this
    up, because a lot of people are going \"waaaah argument\", but I guess I kind
    of have to now.  \r\n\r\nA font family has nothing to do with its faces; a font
    family is a group of fonts meant to work well together.  An example of a font
    family in the modern era with which most are generally familiar is candara, consolas,
    corbel, calibri, constantia and the ugly one.  The misunderstanding that a family
    means its faces comes from the older days of machine typesetting where a font
    was just a font, and had one glyph per index and that was it; at that time, bold/italic/bold
    italic would just be shipped as separate fonts, usually with b/i/bi on the end
    of their names (you can still see that on the system bitmap fonts in Vista boxes),
    and at that time it seemed natural, as they were a set of fonts meant to work
    well together, to refer to them as a family.\r\n\r\nWhat Miha made is actually
    a single font with several faces, not a family at all.  Citation should be easy
    for people here to find, since they're so many type enthusiasts, but since a person
    doesn't make claims without evidence, you can find such discussions in Meggs (aka
    \"Typographic Design: Form and Communication\", doesn't show up until the yellow
    2006 edition, so if you have the cyan 2002 you won't find it) as well as in one
    of the iF yearbooks, where I initially learned this (not sure, think it's 2005.)\r\n\r\nBut
    I wasn't going to argue that, because what Miha meant was clear, so I figured
    I'd just work with what Miha thought the terminology meant.  'Cause you know,
    that isn't a first either.\r\n\r\nJohn Haugeland is http://fullof.bs/"
  created: '2009-09-26 21:18:11'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "<cite>\"A font family has nothing to do with its faces; a font family is
    a group of fonts meant to work well together. An example of a font family in the
    modern era with which most are generally familiar is candara, consolas, corbel,
    calibri, constantia and the ugly one. The misunderstanding that a family means
    its faces.... What Miha made is actually a single font with several faces, not
    a family at all.\"<cite>\r\n\r\nYou're welcome to use the terminology however
    you like, but that is not how most people, experts or laypeople, use the terms.
    I even did a survey on this topic a few months back.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-09-26 23:12:21'
- author:
    name: William Leverette
    picture: 118116
  body: "I can furnish definitive evidence that a type family must consist of at least
    four members ;)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/americanfamily2_6448.png]"
  created: '2009-09-27 01:00:32'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: "<em><strong>Thomas Phinney</strong></em>: That usually means one of four
    things.  I was wondering whether you could distinguish between them, or offer
    an alternative.\r\n\r\n1) I'm misremembering.\r\n2) I'm citing a source correctly,
    but that source is full of crap (eg wikipedia).\r\n3) I'm citing an obsolete or
    archaic source (books that have since been superceded), or a source affected by
    language differences (eg british english, translation)\r\n4) It's a matter of
    divided opinion, of which I am unaware.\r\n\r\nAre any of those four cases what's
    happening here?\r\n\r\nI should also point out for the record that Adobe uses
    the nomenclature I gave.  There was an old technology on the NeXT called \"multiple
    master fonts\", which were awesome: they were hand-hinted explicitly scalable
    fonts, so the artists could set algorithms for how the fonts thickened, and so
    the end user could just drag a slider each to set the boldness and the italicness
    of the font.  (I believe the technology failed because they were preposterously
    difficult even for professionals to make.)  Adobe used the nomenclature \"derived
    faces\", and described sets of \"multiple master fonts\" as a family.  So, for
    example, the MMF family that came with the NeXT was [jensen, miriam, kepler, something-forgotten],
    and you could buy other families - four or five fonts each, generally - for $80,
    which back then was an absolute steal.\r\n\r\nAlso, all the old typesetting books
    I inherited from my grandfather use the term as I had believed and presented.\r\n\r\nThank
    you for clarification on the matter.\r\n\r\nJohn Haugeland is http://fullof.bs/"
  created: '2009-09-27 03:07:01'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "@Miha:\r\n\r\nYes, I really think he's right. A regular and a bold isn't
    much of a family, but it's a family, so even that version of your claim isn't
    technically true. Of course, when you wrote the original post you only had one
    face, right, so you're kind of retconning the whole thing when you retitle your
    post, no?\r\n\r\nNot that I think this is the biggest deal in the known universe.
    But then again, dang, anybody who is seriously into type must be obsessed by minutiae.
    Comes with the territory, right?\r\n\r\n@Stonecypher (John):\r\n\r\nWhat I'm saying
    is that Corbel and Constantia, for example, are two distinct font families, and
    that you're in a very tiny minority (like <1%) to define them otherwise. If you
    can find any typesetting book that has two fonts with unrelated designs, by different
    people, with completely different names, which calls these two fonts part of the
    same family, I'd love to see it.\r\n\r\nI'm rather familiar with Adobe's multiple
    master fonts, having done my MS thesis on multiple master technology, and working
    in Adobe's type group for over 11 years. I never heard anybody use the term \"derived
    faces\" the way you do. (There is a font production The set of multiple master
    fonts that were described as a family would be an upright and an italic, or those
    plus some expert set or something. It's not like Adobe would lump Minion and Myriad
    (not \"miriam\") together and claim they were one family.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure
    where you think Adobe uses the nomenclature you gave as far as the definition
    of \"family.\" For example in the glossary of type terminology on the Adobe web
    site, the definition of both \"family\" and \"font family\" reads: <cite>\"A collection
    of faces that were designed and intended to be used together. For example, the
    Garamond family consists of roman and italic styles, as well as regular, semi-bold,
    and bold weights. Each of the style and weight combinations is called a face.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nSo,
    the example certainly doesn't support your idea. You can choose to read \"designed
    and intended to be used together\" as broader than I believe the writer of that
    sentence intended, I suppose.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-09-27 06:21:01'
- author:
    name: William Leverette
    picture: 118116
  body: "<cite>Right, which is why the second paragraph reads as this exactly opposite
    statement:\r\n\r\n<cite>Airwindows formally thanks Microsoft for devising ClearType,
    and thereby figuring ways to add strange color casts to type on LCD screens, while
    simultaneously reinventing a technique they may well have first heard of from
    me.</cite>\r\n\r\nJohn, please revisit the linked [[http://web.archive.org/web/19990128033152/http://www.airwindows.com/shareware/fonts/index.html|web
    archive page]] from above in order to peruse it and correctly parse this quote
    (if not the irony of it). A Smoothtype-assisted 2x supersampling AA technique
    \u2013 laboriously upsampled by hand \u2013 more accurately describes this author\u2019s
    work.\r\n\r\nWhile on the subject of [[http://www.kaleidoscope.net/greg/smoothtype.html|Smoothtype]],
    please allow me to briefly digress into my own nostalgia: Ah, I remember that
    hazy evening when I installed it, Kaliedascope and Bill Bart's [[http://www.macthemes.net/articles/reviews/000290.php|BBX
    Mercury theme]] on my sister\u2019s brand new 3rd-gen Grape iMac...That was some
    fine blurred-out Segourney-Weaver-CRT-smashing shit right there. So much so that,
    later on, I just had to replicate the hat trick on her college-bound 2nd-gen iBook
    \u2013 what with that super-sexy subpixel feature finally turned on! You see,
    the font smoothing algorithm introduced in OS 8.5 used a type of hinted antialiasing
    sans subpixel rendering that looked mighty chintzy to me next to just about any
    supersampling technique then available.\r\n\r\nSo yes, Smoothtype did feature
    the option of subpixel accuracy for setting antialiased text. But that\u2019s
    not at all what your quoted source was seeking. In that very quote, no less, he
    scoffs at MicroSoft\u2019s \xFCber crispy ClearType. Now, to demonstrate the civility,
    respect, and effective communication of posting an inline image to illustrate
    my point (as Mija rather genially requested above), an image from Airwindows:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/method_4174.gif]\r\nSee
    what he did there? We\u2019re peering at a completely different species of \u201Csubpixel\u201D.\r\n\r\nKindly,\r\nWilliam
    Leverette"
  created: '2009-09-27 09:36:14'
- author:
    name: muji
  body: "I totally agree with Thomas on which fonts can comprise a font family.\r\n\r\nA
    type family is based on the unique characteristics of a single typeface, eg, Arial
    (Regular), and contains fonts which vary the weight and/or width of that original
    weight. Even 'super' families such as ITC Stone (which has four subgroups - serif,
    sans serif, informal and humanistic) are still derived from the basic shape and
    character a single typeface. A \"group of fonts meant to work well together\"
    is just that. I don't think it even has a name unless it is 'sympathetic fonts'.\r\n\r\nThe
    simple visual demonstration of a type family is Univers (see below).\r\n\r\nAdobe
    sells Univers as a 'type family': http://store4.adobe.com/cfusion/store/html/index.cfm?event=displayFontPackage&nr=0&store=OLS-US&code=1791&newsample=hello&view=View\r\n\r\nAdobe
    sells separate fonts grouped together as 'collections', eg:\r\nhttp://store4.adobe.com/cfusion/store/html/index.cfm?&store=OLS-US&event=displayFontPackage&code=1914\r\n\r\nStrike
    throughs and underlines aren't additional weights in a font family because the
    weight of type they underline or strike through already exists. They are an extension
    of an existing weight. (Has the confusion arisen because software programs behind
    the scenes treat each extension or added style/effect as a separate weight, or
    are they created by automatically stylising an existing weight?) Programs like
    Word then muddy the waters further by allowing a weight like Arial Italic to be
    both a separate font AND a 'style' of Arial Regular! \r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Univers_4771.png]"
  created: '2009-09-27 13:51:29'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "\"<cite>Yes, I really think he\u2019s right. A regular and a bold isn\u2019t
    much of a family, but it\u2019s a family, so even that version of your claim isn\u2019t
    technically true.</cite>\" (Thomas)\r\n\r\n\"<cite>I can furnish definitive evidence
    that a type family must consist of at least four members ;)</cite>\" (William)\r\n\r\nI
    am not going to discuss what is type family and what isn't. I said I was going
    to change the title according to Thomas' opinion, and so I did.\r\n\r\n\"<cite>See
    what he did there? We\u2019re peering at a completely different species of 'subpixel'.</cite>\"
    My thoughts exactly. Posted as an answer to subpixel type, and by such knowledgeable
    person \u2013 what were the intentions? I said it was irrelevant, but didn't write
    further induction.\r\n\r\nThanks for commenting, William and David.\r\n\r\nI hope
    that the discussion continues on the subject of subpixel design.\r\n\r\n(PS: I
    had to use improper characters in the title)\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-27 19:14:09'
- author:
    name: muji
  body: "I hope John will now let sleeping dogs lie on the subject of the title.\r\n\r\nIn
    deference to Miha I'm not going to say anything further on what is considered
    a type family but I would beg John to look a bit deeper into it himself before
    he decides to persist with his current understanding."
  created: '2009-09-27 20:53:59'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "On the meaning of \"family\" in typefaces/fonts, see also:\r\nhttp://www.thomasphinney.com/2009/04/font-terms-survey-results/\r\n\r\nOn
    the differing meanings/intent of \"subpixel\" rendering and font design, I concur
    that many of StoneCypher's links and discussions have to do with, well, something
    other than the LCD-oriented ClearType-style rendering we're looking at in Miha's
    work.\r\n\r\nI also think that not being \"first\" in one sense or another isn't
    always that big a deal. It's still a really nice piece of work, being done with
    different intent and probably with different implications than the earlier work.
    I'm reminded of the discovery of Viking visits to the new world pre-dating Columbus.
    Fascinating and cool, but didn't really change the importance of Columbus at all.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    Miha, have you considered using Photofont technology as a delivery vehicle for
    this? Seems like you could use something like that....\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-09-27 22:34:48'
- author:
    name: muji
  body: "Thomas\r\n\r\nI note that nearly 30 percent of your respondents consider
    bold and italic not to be separate fonts. Do you think it's the curse of the B
    and I buttons in some programs? They know to press them creates bold and italic
    but do they also realise that in most cases a real bold or italic font is called
    up rather than the chosen weight is actually emboldened or italicised?"
  created: '2009-09-28 00:05:11'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: "<em><strong>Thomas Phinney</strong></em>: I may be misunderstanding and/or
    misremembering, then.  Thank you for clarifying, and I retract my statements on
    font families.\r\n\r\n<em><strong>William Leverette</strong></em>: I appreciate
    the sentiment, but I believe that you are mistaken; notice the text at the top
    which says \"Now with subpixel smoothing for LCD screens!\"  That is unambiguous
    regarding whether the man had subpixel 3-column hinting, so right there you have
    a somewhat clearer answer.  His hand-made fonts are also subpixel, though they're
    color bitmap like Miha's rather than positional subpixel map like some other examples.\r\n\r\nSmoothtype
    is just a seperate thing he makes.  I'm talking about the hand-made fonts, not
    his plugin for the standard system fonts.  It is not uncommon for system-level
    font enthusiasts to attempt multiple technologies.\r\n\r\nHe makes fonts, <strong>and</strong>
    he makes a program that attempts to smooth out things not using his fonts.  (He
    actually makes other stuff too; poke around his site for a lot of fun ideas.)\r\n\r\nEither
    way, I'm not sure why we're belaboring this particular site; it isn't among the
    earliest several, it just gives the examples of full families of fonts that Miha
    was asking for.\r\n\r\n<em><strong>Miha</strong></em>: \r\n\r\n<cite>My thoughts
    exactly. Posted as an answer to subpixel type, and by such knowledgeable person
    \u2013 what were the intentions?</cite>\r\n\r\nIf I were wrong there, it would
    be a single mistake among many other things.  Everyone is human (except Dick Cheney).
    \ Mistakes are not evidence of foul play.  As Lord Bryce said, apparently possibly
    regarding me, \"never attribute to malice what is adequately explained by stupidity.\"\r\n\r\nI
    notice that you've updated the title, above and beyond what the moderators chose.
    \ Thank you for that; I very much appreciate your show of good faith.  I retract
    whatever I said about honesty; in the end, you made it right."
  created: '2009-09-28 04:22:46'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Great, now you two can kiss and make up! Or if that isn't acceptable, you
    could both kiss me, and I could pass it on....  :)\r\n\r\n@Muji: Yes, a noticeable
    chunk of people think of \"a font\" as including bold and italic variants. But
    among the general public, a high percentage also don't realize that bold and italic
    are commonly distinct human-made designs, rather than special effects simply created
    by the computer. Of course, Windows and Mac OS don't help matters by doing faux
    bold and faux italic when the real fonts don't exist.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-09-28 07:40:45'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "So, how to continue? With further additions, of course:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/roman_tr_5609.png]\r\nThere
    are some glyphs that are not yet ready, but generally speaking I added:\r\n<ul><li>superscript
    and subscript numerals in both lining and old-style forms (quiet <em>unusual</em>
    for (sub)pixel font, isn't it?;))</li>\r\n<li>predefined fractions which are in
    [[http://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/latin_charsets/Adobe_Latin_4.html|Adobe
    Latin 4]] \u2013 OK, some may use some help</li>\r\n<li>arrows + some triangles,
    also in Adobe Latin 4</li>\r\n<li>some currency glyphs</li>\r\n<li>I just started
    adding accented characters</li>\r\n<li>case sensitive forms (dashes, parentheses
    etc)</li></ul>\r\n\r\nHow is a web designer going to use the typeface?\r\nI also
    thought about Photofont, but it doesn't support type families (or does its use
    become unnecesary complicated). Furthermore, it doesn't support both lining &
    old-style figures and other feautures. To be fair, this is not supported by CSS
    either (!).\r\nUsing the sIFR-like method is in my opinion the best. I think I
    will take parts of sIFR and make it appropriate for my typeface. I am doing text
    layout program in Flash anyway.\r\nUsing sIFR-like plugin for webpages has the
    following benefits:\r\n<ul><li>it is automatic and text is easy to change and
    style (with html and css)</li>\r\n<li>if user scales the webpage, the typeface
    should be changed to a bigger system font \u2013 instead of smoothing the type
    and breaking a subpixel effect like in static images</li>\r\n<li>users on iPhone
    see the regular text (if rotated, subpixel effects on iPhone don't work)</li>\r\n<li>it
    is also easier to \"install\" than sIFR because typeface is already saved in proper
    format</li>\r\n<li>it suggests the idea that The Flea's Knees should be used only
    in extremely small quantites (like in headlines, but just the opposite size)</li></ul>\r\nAnother
    option is use in predesigned pictures.\r\n\r\nPersonally I think that such small
    text should be used very rarely. I made it because I like the optical illusion
    and making something in a \"new\" way.\r\n\r\nAnd now a question \u2026 has anybody
    brave tried doing a small subpixel font or maybe just some glyphs? I would be
    glad to see some other examples. I can only study the work of Ken Perlin \u2013
    subpixel typefaces from decades ago don't work anymore on LCD screens, and there
    are no 1x magnifications of fonts made for game devices.\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-28 21:23:41'
- author:
    name: gingerbeardman
    picture: 118013
  body: "This is interesting: textorize produces beautifully subpixel antialiased
    text graphics on OS X, through a Rubycocoa Ruby script. \r\n\r\nhttp://mir.aculo.us/2009/09/29/textorize-pristine-font-rendering-for-the-web/\r\n\r\nsite
    is currently down for me, so i used the <a href=\"http://209.85.229.132/search?q=cache%3Ahttp%3A%2F%2Fmir.aculo.us%2F2009%2F09%2F29%2Ftextorize-pristine-font-rendering-for-the-web%2F&ie=utf-8&oe=utf-8&aq=t&rls=org.mozilla:en-GB:official&client=firefox-a\">google
    cache</a>"
  created: '2009-09-30 17:39:48'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: "Gingerbeard Man: here's the Win98 (?) tool I threw together a billion years
    ago to dump them.  It looks kind of broken in Vista, due to changing border sizes,
    but it's usable; in XP mode in Win7 it works exactly as expected.  It's going
    to dump a horizontal PNG with Microsoft's cleartype filter.  I confess to a strong
    preference for Microsoft's filter over Apple's.\r\n\r\nThe two pulldowns at the
    bottom are the character range to dump (you can do limited ranges, or it's good
    up into unicode.)  It isn't smart enough to skip unimplemented characters.\r\n\r\nhttp://sc.tri-bit.com/outgoing/DumpFont.exe\r\n\r\nPlease
    note that both my tool and the Ruby tool are fundamentally flawed: they're generating
    images, which are not equivalent to a subpixel font because they lock the characters
    into one of the three primary physical positions.  I re-render each character
    individually to keep from generating weird pseudo-kerning effects.  (The ruby
    script might too; I haven't looked.)  However, real SPAA requires a live font
    engine with knowledge of the screen and access to a vector font; image dumps can
    never be a real subpixel font (it could be faked with three subpixel image sets
    and some complex positioning, I guess.)\r\n\r\nObviously, as an executable from
    the internet, scan it seventy five bujillion times with antivirus.\r\n\r\nJohn
    Haugeland is http://fullof.bs/"
  created: '2009-10-01 17:53:31'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: Wow. I'm sorry I wasn't paying attention to this. A LOT of great resources
    here for people who have to make web icons, i.e., me :)
  created: '2009-10-01 18:39:14'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: "Dan: icons shouldn't be subpixel anti-aliased.  They'd be visibly improved
    only to about 30% of customers, and visually impaired to nearly 70%.\r\n\r\nThe
    market is not homogenous enough for rendering strategies to be enfored at the
    image level."
  created: '2009-10-01 19:08:38'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Years ago I was thinking that cell phones and the like might be best served
    for their main system font by a custom bitmapped sub-pixel anti-aliased font with
    three different versions of each glyph, one for each possible subpixel x-starting-position.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-10-04 20:26:30'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "In case if you are asking when I am going to finish my typeface: I am working
    on it! Special characters and feautures are nice, but they do take their time.
    I also see that accompaining website would be appropriate (not on its very own
    domain though).\r\n\r\n\"<cite>icons shouldn\u2019t be subpixel anti-aliased.
    They\u2019d be visibly improved only to about 30% of customers, and visually impaired
    to nearly 70%.</cite>\"\r\nI think they should be. Nothing wrong if they aren't,
    but why not take the advantage of the hardware.\r\nIs there any source for the
    30% claim? I don't think it's true. I think the majority of web users use LCD
    screens with RGB order of subpixels, on which the subpixel information is displayed
    correctly. According to <a href=\"http://www.microsoft.com/typography/cleartypefaq.mspx\">Microsoft</a>:
    \"a very small number have a striping order of BGR [on which subpixel design isn't
    displayed properly].\"\r\nOf course there are users browsing on rotated mobile
    devices and other display technologies, but they are in minority. I can't check
    my typeface on CRT display, but Steve Gibson's <a href=\"http://www.grc.com/ctwhat.htm\">opinion</a>
    is \"sub-pixel rendering is better than nothing on CRT's\", so it can't look bad
    in absolute terms.\r\n\r\nThis is just \u2026 web design. Sites aren't displayed
    optimally for a small number of visitors in a vaste range of cases: for example
    because of having javascript turned off, no Flash or just too old plugin, outdated
    browser, (old) mobile device, setting of non-native monitor resolution, zooming
    in and displaying blurred pictures etc.\r\n\r\n\"<cite>three different versions
    of each glyph, one for each possible subpixel x-starting-position</cite>\"\r\nI
    won't deny that this thought didn't cross my mind :-)\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-04 22:22:46'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "Matt \u2013 \"<cite>This is interesting: textorize produces beautifully subpixel
    antialiased text graphics on OS X, through a Rubycocoa Ruby script.</cite>\"\r\n\r\nNice!
    This is exactly the perfect kind of \"response\" to a discussion about subpixel
    rendering.\r\n\r\nThe use for my typeface is very limited, but its purpuse could
    be more of an educational one: if people learn basics about subpixel rendering
    they may also quickly notice that the quality of rasterisers differs, and consequently
    response in a negative way to improve the situation. Look at <a href=\"http://kltf.de/kltf_notes_raster.htm\">this
    test</a> for comparisons in text sizes (made by Karsten L\xFCcke)."
  created: '2009-10-04 23:48:48'
- author:
    name: StoneCypher
    picture: 118033
  body: "<cite>Is there any source for the 30% claim? I don\u2019t think it\u2019s
    true.</cite>\r\n\r\nYeah.  Try doing some research, Miha.  You really shouldn't
    be challenging other people's honesty at this point.\r\n\r\nThe reason I didn't
    look up the numbers for you is because the last time I did your research for you,
    you complained at length about how there was too much of it, and never got around
    to reading it.\r\n\r\nIt's amazingly inappropriate for you to call someone a liar
    based on guesswork.\r\n\r\n<cite>I think the majority of web users use LCD screens
    with RGB order of subpixels,</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm sure you do.\r\n\r\n<cite>According
    to Microsoft: \u201Ca very small number have a striping order of BGR [on which
    subpixel design isn\u2019t displayed properly].\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\nYeah, it turns
    out that there are a lot more web-enabled devices than the ones that run ClearType.\r\n\r\n<cite>Of
    course there are users browsing on rotated mobile devices and other display technologies,
    but they are in minority.</cite>\r\n\r\nAh, made-up data.  The correct number
    is easily gotten from Google statistics.  Two cellular phone browsers are now
    in the top 10 browsers on earth, and both are usually used landscape.\r\n\r\nPlease
    stop refuting other people's claims based on your imagination, Miha.  That isn't
    how this works.\r\n\r\n<cite>but Steve Gibson\u2019s opinion is \u201Csub-pixel
    rendering is better than nothing on CRT\u2019s</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, for text.  Not
    for icons.  The reason it's better for text is that the 3/9 filter that you don't
    use approximates the anti-aliasing that you don't use.  Steve's opinion is based
    on two things you don't actually do, and applies to monochrome text rather than
    colored images.\r\n\r\n<cite>so it can\u2019t look bad in absolute terms.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes.
    \ It can.  In fact it does.\r\n\r\n<cite>Sites aren\u2019t displayed optimally
    for a small number of visitors in a vaste range of cases:</cite>\r\n\r\nThe number
    is 70%, Miha, not \"a small number of visitors\" based on things you imagine.\r\n\r\nMaking
    tiny improvements for a minority of customers while ignoring the wrongness to
    a significant number of customers which is much more unpleasant than leaving things
    as was just isn't that smart."
  created: '2009-10-06 20:33:47'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "StoneCypher, you seem to have knowledge. To bad it's wrapped inside of sarcastic
    rants. \r\n\r\nAnyways, if anyone has a specific source for that 30% statistic,
    it'd certainly be interesting.\r\n\r\nI do see how sub-pixel rendering pre-system
    level is more of a limited-use experiment as you are at the mercy of the particular
    display technology and the the orientation of it.\r\n\r\nAs stated, the use of
    many hand-held screens being used horizontally is an issue. There's also problems
    with different pixel setups with screens (such as the OLPC screen which uses an
    interesting sub-pixel matrix). \r\n\r\nPlease correct me if I am wrong, but this
    is really only useful specifically when there either a white and/or black  background
    as well. \r\n\r\nStill, fun experiment!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-06 21:28:25'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "It's an interesting problem. When I was thinking about having different glyphs
    for each x-position, I wasn't considering rotatable screens at the time... now
    I have two, my iPhone and my main jumbo LCD monitor at home. So you'd also need
    either three more for \"rotated\" mode, or at least one plain grayscale glyph
    for rotated mode. But what do you do about spacing, if you were doing sub-pixel
    incremented spacing before? You'd have to change the spacing and potentially have
    reflow as part of rotating the screen. That might not be a big deal as you'd be
    potentially changing line length and such anyway... hmmm.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-10-12 02:02:55'
- author:
    name: lopez
  body: "\r\n\r\nStonecypher, I am very curious about the thirty percent statistic.
    I cannot seem to be able to find a source for that. Would you mind providing a
    link? I don't think miha was challenging you, it seems to be a genuine question,
    one that I have too.\r\n\r\n\r\nFrankly, I'm also having trouble believing this
    statistic. Is that including every display ever made still working?\r\n\r\nThank
    you in advance!"
  created: '2009-10-16 04:58:29'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "SS> Two cellular phone browsers are now in the top 10 browsers on earth,
    and both are usually used landscape.\r\n\r\nAnd don't both have really high resolution
    so that the orientation of the stripes is insignificant?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-10-16 14:00:38'
- author:
    name: Bert Docks
  body: "I think it's a wonderful font, far more legible than others which are scaled
    down through Cleartype or similar post process filtering. I'm deeply saddened
    that someone should come along and, while providing some interesting information,
    miss the point so completely and go about ruining someone's day by trying to discredit
    their excellent work because they objected to a little excited (and deservedly
    so) wording.\r\n\r\nI for one will use be using this font in all sorts of places
    it wasn't designed for. Keep up the great work, Miha. And don't feed the clearly
    jealous troll."
  created: '2010-02-06 13:13:53'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "Thanks Paul, I feel in the similar way.\r\n\r\nThe process of designing this
    font has slowed down. Well, it is a font with many glyphs and features, especially
    for a pixel font, but I have to admit my excitement also become smaller (it actually
    happens every time I learn about a new, exciting, specific, geeky area of knowledge).\r\n\r\nBtw,
    I am glad this post made so [[http://www.typophile.com/node/65995|many views]],
    I really like Typophile, and I see it as some kind of contribution.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-07 18:08:16'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: cool!!!
  created: '2010-06-09 07:14:32'
- author:
    name: neumann
    picture: 109611
  body: "This is a VERY nicely detailed piece of pixel by pixel handiwork.\r\n\r\nHowever....
    I think that all the attention to colored pixels is unnecessary and actually distracting.
    I have yet to see a cleartype or sub-pixel implemention where I am not noticeably
    distracted by the color fringing.\r\n\r\nLook at the image below. It is one of
    \ Miha's lovely specimens converted to grayscale by selecting only the green color
    channel in photoshop. It could be refined by hand from here to wring a teeny bit
    more detail, but it is a pretty good automatic conversion.\r\n\r\nWhile it can
    not perfectly match the detail of the colored pixel version, it is preferably
    to me for the lack of color fringing. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/grayscale_only_4837.png]"
  created: '2010-06-11 19:32:51'
- author:
    name: neumann
    picture: 109611
  body: "here is a side by side.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/compare_5824.png]"
  created: '2010-06-11 20:09:26'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "<cite>I have yet to see a cleartype or sub-pixel implemention where I am
    not noticeably distracted by the color fringing.</cite>\r\nI am not very distracted
    by colors on my 17\u2033 laptop with 133 PPI, which is higher than an usual display.
    On the other hand, I can still clearly see colors (if I don't sit too far away)
    on an average display. It distracts me, but grayscale rendering is even more blurry
    and that distracts me even more.\r\nI also don\u2019t like aliased fonts (OK,
    there are <a href=\"http://typophile.com/battle03\">exceptions</a>). Aliased font
    like Georgia wasn\u2019t even made for LCD display and I don\u2019t think the
    old master had this in mind when he designed it for the CRT screens. However,
    I think I could get used to aliased fonts with very carefully antialiased curves.
    For example, <a href=\"http://www.themicrofoundry.com/manademo/\">Mana</a>.\r\n\r\n<cite>While
    it can not perfectly match the detail of the colored pixel version, it is preferably
    to me for the lack of color fringing.</cite>\r\nWell, it is your opinion &hellip;
    but this is partly my fault. Color fringing is actually too pronounced and if
    I continue with this typeface, I will find a better balance between fringing and
    blurriness. There is also something else: When I was doing this typeface, I started
    with colors which were produced by Windows ClearType GDI rendering. I changed
    them just a little and didn't do a research to find out what are actually the
    best colors. Read it in <em><a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/71019\">this thread</a></em>,
    where I criticized that the lightness of red/blue colors is programatically symmetrical,
    but not perceptually.\r\n\r\n<cite>I think that all the attention to colored pixels
    is unnecessary and actually distracting.</cite>\r\nI mainly share your opinion
    for regular and bold weight, but not for italic and bold italic. I think subpixels
    can really help in displaying a nice italic font without too much blurriness.
    Well, an example of my font with different levels of color fringing would be nice
    (I hope I can manage to post it soon &ndash; made with filters)\r\n\r\nPS: Thank
    you for your comments! At last, some argumented criticism :-)"
  created: '2010-06-11 22:20:03'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "It's worth noting that sensitivity to color fringing of ClearType (et aliae)
    varies very much by the individual, and it's a fairly small minority that are
    highly bothered by it. So \"it bugs me\" is not the same as \"it is objectively
    worse.\"\r\n\r\nThat being said, as somebody who likes ClearType and normally
    sees a substantial improvement by it, the difference between the two samples does
    not seem all that great, and if 10% or more are bothered by the color fringing,
    maybe straight greyscale would be preferable.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-06-12 05:29:36'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "I have to chime in here and say that ClearType is not doing it for me. Vibration
    ad nauseum. Grayscale looks much better.\r\n\r\nMike Diaz :-)"
  created: '2010-08-24 07:44:39'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Mike, have you tried using the ClearType tuner?\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2011-09-14 19:55:07'
- author:
    name: graphonaut
    picture: 127432
  body: "Um... can I get this font in Word some how?\r\n"
  created: '2014-06-14 05:26:47'
- author:
    name: carl smith
    picture: 127640
  body: "how do you download it\r\n"
  created: '2014-08-27 18:58:40'
date: '2009-09-12 17:51:02'
node_type: blog
title: The Flea's Knees - Handmade Subpixel Type Family with 3px x-height

---
