---
author:
  name: hrant
  picture: 110403
body: Hey, that&#39;s cool. <BR>Plus if they had changed it to &#34;Winston&#34;,
  the currently omni-potent anti-tobacco lobby would make them change it again...
  <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
comments:
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: <i><a href="http://www.manwoman.net/" target="_blank">http://www.manwoman.net/</a>
    ...</i> <BR> <BR>I met Manwoman in the late 1980s. Very strange man, but extremely
    interesting on the subject of the swastika. Pretty much every inch of his body
    that I could see, and presumably a lot that I couldn&#39;t, -- excepting his face
    -- was covered in tattoo&#39;d variations of the swastika.
  created: '2003-01-26 05:37:04'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: Matha, Paul, <BR>thank you for the GREAT explanations and info! I would have
    not imagined, having not read Heller&#39;s book, that he would have &#34;attacked&#34;
    a casual use of the Swastika. The only thing that stops me from being too blatant
    is my respect for Hebrew people and culture. <BR>But again, I will concentrate
    more on the blackletter in my future project, so people will have less to complain.
    <BR> <BR>BTW, Hrant, you know that John  Downer may have a point on Steven Heller?
    Well, I guess each one of us is blind to many bad behavior things he does.
  created: '2003-01-26 11:54:26'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: I mean on Steven Hellers&#39; writing tacticts, just to be more clear.
  created: '2003-01-26 11:55:35'
- author:
    name: matha_standun
    picture: 110362
  body: Claudio wrote <BR><i>The only thing that stops me from being too blatant is
    my respect for Hebrew people and culture.</i>  <BR> <BR>Respect is a very good
    thing but I think it is the <b>fear</b> of being accused of anti-semitism rather
    than <b>respect</b> that stops most of us from being too blatant.  <BR> <BR>Statements
    like &#34;intent is not the issue; history is&#34; &#40;op.cit. p135&#41; will
    keep our mouths closed for a while yet. <BR> <BR>Matha <BR>
  created: '2003-01-26 15:57:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; you know that John Downer may have a point on Steven Heller? <BR> <BR>John
    Downer has good points on a number of things. <BR>Like what&#39;s very funny is,
    I suspect he actually shares my dislike for the bulk of the Emigre library! :-/
    To be fair, though, there are some gems in there &#40;which few font houses have
    at all&#41;, like Democratica, and Tarzana. Ottomat is cool too! :-&#41; I have
    great expectations of Emigre now that they&#39;ve come back to type, sans hooliganism.
    <BR> <BR>-- <BR> <BR>Matha, you&#39;re right. <BR>Just remember that Nature put
    Fear there for a reason, eh?  :-/ <BR>Be afraid, habeebi, be very afraid. <BR>
    <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-01-26 17:19:32'
- author:
    name: matha_standun
    picture: 110362
  body: <i>Just remember that Nature put Fear there for a reason, eh?</i>  <BR>  <BR>...and
    a closed mouth gathers no foot. <BR>  <BR>M.
  created: '2003-01-26 17:34:28'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: I&#39;m sorry, Matha, but in my case it&#39;s just respect. Which I always
    have in front of death and suffering caused by people. <BR> <BR>And Hrant, well,
    you know that our view on the Emigre library is quite the opposite than yours.
    And I&#39;m still surprised you like Democratica and Ottomat. Maybe because you
    know Miles and me? No, I don&#39;t belive so. Maybe because the conceptual framework
    of Democratica &#40;on the disbading of the Soviet Union&#41; was really close
    to your experience. And maybe because my Ottomat &#40;Tomazooma&#41; was indirectly
    an homage on the American indian tribes. <BR>But both these things do not show
    graphically in our types... <BR> <BR>Amyway you&#39;ve an odd perception of what
    Emigre actually represented and of its importance. It&#39;s not surely the recennt
    Tarzana that has fostered what has come later. <BR>May I ask you when and how
    you first came in contact with Emigre? <BR>Also, say what you want, but Ottomat
    was influenced heavily by Triplex and Triplex Italic, after Gill and Futura/Semplicit
  created: '2003-01-26 17:58:48'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: '&#62;And Hrant, well, you know that our view <BR> <BR>I meant &#34;my view&#34;.
    Sorry, a Typo.'
  created: '2003-01-26 17:59:52'
- author:
    name: matha_standun
    picture: 110362
  body: <i>I&#39;m sorry, Matha, but in my case it&#39;s just respect. Which I always
    have in front of death and suffering caused by people.</i>    <BR>    <BR>I don&#39;t
    doubt it, Claudio, but I tend to have respect for people whether or not they&#39;ve
    been the victims of genocide. Nonetheless, as a historian I understand how hard
    it is to work on your own history.  <BR>   <BR>Matha.   <BR>    <BR>     <BR>    <BR>
  created: '2003-01-26 19:44:38'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: 'Of course, I was just saying I have additonal respect in this particular
    instance. <BR>The tricky matter with history is to work on it leaving apart prejudices.
    A lot of historians &#34;demonized&#34; the figure of Adolf Hitler without any
    information on his formation &#40;sorry for the pun&#41; and life events. <BR>
    <BR>I&#39;ve recently bought the book &#34;Adolf Hitler: Eine politische Biographie&#34;
    by Rainer Zitelmann in its italian edition and I think is the most honest and
    balanced analysis on him to date. <BR>Different times, different places, but similar
    unfortunate events could contribute negatively to a personality &#40;as Hitler&#41;
    as well as a positive one. I&#39;m thinking about the incredible series of bad
    luck and misfortunes passed by Abraham Lincoln before becoming Presidents of the
    US at the age of 51. <BR>This &#34;parallel of sorts&#34; occurred to me reading
    a book on self-esteem by David Brooks and Rex Dalby, always in italian edition.
    <BR> <BR>The problem is the lack of information available on the childhood/teenage
    years/young age of Hitler. If you read Zitelmann&#39;s and some parts of the Mein
    Kampf you can see how much many decisions of Hitler came out of frustration and
    despair, although Hitler does not admit it. <BR> <BR>If Hitler had met a sensitive
    and good hearted person or friend &#40;or more&#41; in his Vienna years we could
    have ended up having a painting artist instead of a self-destructing dictator.'
  created: '2003-01-26 20:39:11'
- author:
    name: matha_standun
    picture: 110362
  body: '<i>Of course, I was just saying I have additonal respect in this particular
    instance.</i> <BR> <BR>I know. What I meant was that I have <i>respect</i>, I
    don&#39;t have <i>additional</i> respect. What is <i>additional</i> respect?  <BR>
    <BR>As to Hitler. His demonisation served a purpose - it got a lot of people off
    the hook <i>all over the world.</i>  <BR> <BR>M  '
  created: '2003-01-26 21:18:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; But both these things do not show graphically in our types... <BR>
    <BR>You&#39;re right. And in fact I miss the Soviet Union. <BR> <BR>&#62; May
    I ask you when and how you first came in contact with Emigre? <BR> <BR>A coworker
    at an educational software firm, in &#39;96. He was a graphic designer. A colorblind
    one. He caused me to subscribe to the mag and buy a mouse pad. Then I bought their
    &#34;First 10 years&#34; book, and wrote an ambivalent letter to them about it,
    which they published. You want more history? Anyway, I <i>love</i> experimentation.
    As long as it&#39;s serious. <BR> <BR>BTW, we had a genocide too. In fact, in
    justifying the launch of the Holocaust, Hitler asked &#34;Who now remembers the
    Armenians?&#34; This is a fact. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-01-27 00:23:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: BTW, Heller has a short piece in the current issue of Print about alleged
    similarities between the UN logo and the old Soviet crest. He uses classic local
    news innuendo, as well as phrases like &#34;evil Soviets&#34; with a straight
    face. Result? Disgust. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-01-27 00:24:21'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: As someone deeply attached to blackletter, I beg you all not to attach a save-the-swastika
    corollary to efforts to destigmatize blackletter. The two have nothing to do with
    one another. <BR> <BR>Please, leave the swastika cause to ManWoman. <BR> <BR>&#40;I
    wonder if ManWoman drives a CarTruck...&#41;
  created: '2003-01-27 02:22:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; The two have nothing to do with one another. <BR> <BR>Huh? <BR> <BR>BTW,
    I think he drives a carcycle. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-01-27 02:24:48'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: '&#62;As someone deeply attached to blackletter, I beg you all not to attach
    <BR>a save-the-swastika corollary to efforts to destigmatize blackletter. <BR>The
    two have nothing to do with one another. <BR> <BR>Don&#39;t worry. I would probably
    keep them separate, because I love the blackletter, too, and I know the different
    impact the two things have on the average street guy. <BR>Someone might not even
    notice that a logo is set in Blackletter instead of Uncial, but many will arise
    on the Swastika issus. <BR>This does not mean I will forget the Swastika problem.
    <BR> <BR>Matha: additonal respect: more respect. Do you have the same degree of
    respect towards anything or anyone? This wordplay is a loss of time...'
  created: '2003-01-27 13:21:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: More respect for some things implies less respect for some others. I&#39;m
    not saying that&#39;s avoidable, just that it needs to be admitted. <BR> <BR>hhp
    <BR>
  created: '2003-01-27 16:40:05'
- author:
    name: matha_standun
    picture: 110362
  body: I think I knew that <i>additional</i> meant <i>more</i>, Claudio. But thanks
    anyway. <BR>My point has nothing to do with wordplay. I don&#39;t give people
    <i>more</i> respect because of their history. That&#39;s very dodgy territory.
    Whose history entitles them to the most respect, in your opinion?  <BR> <BR><i>Do
    you have the same degree of respect towards anything or anyone?</i> <BR> <BR>If
    we&#39;re talking about people, yes. Things are different. <BR> <BR>Respectfully
    yours, <BR> <BR>Matha
  created: '2003-01-27 17:40:49'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: '&#62; [Well, Hrant. The fact that I respect a lot someone does not mean I
    will not respect another. But maybe I&#39;m just using respect in a too wide acception.
    Strictly I, of course, agree each person deserves the same respect. I was mostly
    speaking of things. And yes, Matha is right. We may say I have more compassion
    and comprension for people because of their history. Respect should be the same
    to anyone.]'
  created: '2003-01-27 19:33:19'
- author:
    name: matha_standun
    picture: 110362
  body: '<i>We may say I have more compassion and comprension for people because of
    their history</i> <BR> <BR>I agree with you 100% there, Claudio.  <BR> <BR><i>Strictly
    I, of course, agree each person deserves the same respect. I was mostly speaking
    of things.</i>  <BR> <BR>The distiction between things and people is not as clear
    cut as it sounds. Being able to distinguish a person from his or her text, individuals
    from their jobs, people from their governments etc. is a tricky business at the
    best of times.  <BR> <BR>To get back to the swastika: there&#39;s another <i>thing</i>
    that cannot be easily separated in our minds from the <i>people</i> who used it.  <BR>
    <BR>Stephen Heller would argue that even trying to separate the two does an enormous
    injustice to the victims.  <BR> <BR>Matha'
  created: '2003-01-27 20:39:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; Stephen Heller would argue that even trying to separate the two does
    an enormous injustice to the victims. <BR> <BR>But where does one draw the line?
    How much reparation is enough, considering the plight of other peoples? In fact,
    who are the victims <i>today</i>? <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-01-27 20:51:19'
- author:
    name: capthaddock
    picture: 110400
  body: It may be largely because of the Holocaust that no one condemns the current
    genocide against Israeli Arabs.  Does one group of people ever have the right
    to systematically demolish the homes and workplaces of another group?  To murder
    them when they refuse to leave? <BR> <BR>History seems better at building prejudices
    than teaching lessons. <BR> <BR>Paul
  created: '2003-01-27 20:53:47'
- author:
    name: matha_standun
    picture: 110362
  body: <i>History seems better at building prejudices than teaching lessons.</i>  <BR>
    <BR>You&#39;ve hit the nail on the head there, Paul.  <BR> <BR>History isn&#39;t
    supposed to teach lessons. Every country has its own version - how could it? <BR>
    <BR>Matha.
  created: '2003-01-27 21:10:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Paul, don&#39;t use &#34;genocide&#34; <i>that</i> liberally. <BR>But I agree,
    it&#39;s disgusting. We do what out fathers have done to us, I guess... <BR> <BR>Anyway,
    this is getting too political. <BR>And that&#39;s <i>me</i> saying it...  :-/
    <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-01-27 21:18:58'
- author:
    name: matha_standun
    picture: 110362
  body: To go back a few posts there, <BR> <BR><i>But where does one draw the line?</i>  <BR>
    <BR>Between people and things. <BR>Symbols, language, and football teams with
    unfortunate logos didn&#39;t do the damage.  <BR>People did. <BR> <BR>Intent <i>is</i>
    more important than history. <BR> <BR><i>In fact, who are the victims today?</i>
    <BR> <BR>Those with the cash and the media to publicise their plight or continue
    to publicise old plights. <BR> <BR>Matha <BR>
  created: '2003-01-27 21:54:24'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: 'This post has taken about seven tangents. A few points I&#39;ll   <BR>add
    to the array of topics:  <BR>  <BR>The Swastika vs. Blackletter:  <BR>I think
    the separation between the two is easy for me, but   <BR>perhaps, maybe not for
    people who lived it. Our cultural   <BR>experiences shape our understandings.
    See my next point.  <BR>  <BR>Blackletter:  <BR>If I compile all the usage of
    blackletter I&#39;ve seen in my   <BR>lifetime &#40;outside of history books&#41;
    growing up in Southern   <BR>California, I associate blackletter with newspapers
    and   <BR>Mexican groups. &#40;At least, in San Diego, where I grew up,   <BR>most
    of the Hispanics are Mexicans. I&#39;ll apologize now if   <BR>other Hispanic
    groups in the US use it&#41;. At least in Southern   <BR>California Latinos own
    blackletter, and therefore, that&#39;s my   <BR>association to it as well.  <BR>  <BR>The
    UN Logo:  <BR>What the wheat? Surely he&#39;s not talking about the hammer   <BR>and
    sickle?'
  created: '2003-01-28 01:44:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'I think the separation can certainly be useful [for helping out blackletter],
    it&#39;s just a bit devious to pretend they&#39;re not related. <BR> <BR>BTW,
    your Latino-Blackletter connection is right on. And it seems to suffer almost
    no Nazi stigma for them. <BR> <BR>UN: he&#39;s talking about the Soviet &#34;crest&#34;,
    the one with is the Hammer&amp;Sickle overlaid on a globe, with wheat on the sides.
    <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-01-28 04:33:13'
- author:
    name: capthaddock
    picture: 110400
  body: Here in British Columbia, there is a negligible latino presence, but a lot
    of German Mennonites.  I tend to associate blackletter with them, since they still
    use it.  Another instance without the Nazi stigma. <BR> <BR>Paul
  created: '2003-01-28 06:34:52'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: '&#62;I think the separation can certainly be useful [for helping out blackletter],
    it&#39;s just a bit devious to pretend they&#39;re not related. <BR>You&#39;ve
    summarized the problem in treating the issue very good, Hrant. I&#39;ll keep the
    separation, as Butler suggested, and it will not be a project on the swastika.
    But the nazist swastika usage will be addressed in one way or the other. <BR>
    <BR>I don&#39;t share the fatalistic attitude towards history&#39;s inability
    to help reflections and understand past errors &#40;&#34;teaching lessons&#34;
    is more pretentious&#41;. An example is Paul&#39;s assumption on the arab Israeli
    people. The preconceptions against islamic culture are not a byproduct of so-called
    &#34;compassion&#34; towards the hebrew one &#40;compassion is hardly an excuse
    for another form of violence&#41;. The preconceptions against islam are constantly
    reinforced by its fanatic fringes &#40;which, of course, does not represent the
    actual religious beliefs&#41; and the fact that christianity &#40;but mostly so-called
    &#34;christianity&#34; and occidental culture in general&#41; fears Islam. To
    me, and I am catholic, this is senseless, but it&#39;s a pretty diffused fear
    &#40;especially in the US&#41;. We should turn back this attitude against the
    american reaction to the terrorism also. I wrote a letter to a Senator and to
    the US President, from the Food First webpages, as Emigre talked about it, knowing
    perfectly that it wouldn&#39;t have served nothing. They went ahead with their
    &#34;military systems&#34;. But I did. <BR> <BR>Anyway, I think it would be better
    to save further ideas for a specific thread, if you agree. We&#39;re straying
    a little off the path while I would concentrate more specifically on the issues
    connected to the blackletter usage as propaganda. We may do one when I will decide
    to work on this book project, if you like the idea. I would love to have the opinion
    of many designers. I just don&#39;t know when... <BR> <BR>If you wish to keep
    talking of the issue, please start a new thread, so people can notice it.'
  created: '2003-01-28 07:30:47'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: I don&#39;t know why, but my previous post showed up as anonymous &#40;?&#41;
    <BR> <BR>Claudio
  created: '2003-01-28 07:32:43'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: There is now <a href="http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/4077/4803.html">a
    typophile forum</a> for discussing blackletter. From what I hear, the moderator
    is a little crazy, but it&#39;s a start.
  created: '2003-01-28 07:42:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Claudio, that sounds great. But John Butler is your man &#40;and you should
    consider GMM too, for a well-educated Hispanic angle&#41;. I&#39;m just a blackletter
    dilettante... unless of course you wanna bring in its <i>functional</i> advantages:
    <BR><a href="http://www.themicrofoundry.com/ss_fraktur1.html" target="_blank">http://www.themicrofoundry.com/ss_fraktur1.html</a>
    <BR>:-&#41; <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-01-28 07:43:08'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: Thank you, John. In the future your forum will be a gem. Promised. <BR> <BR>Thanks,
    Hrant! Who is GMM? <BR>The observations on your page are pertinent, but as you
    pointed out, the presence of archaic forms and an overtly decorative attitude
    often reduced the legibility of blackletters. Most roman fonts have an abundance
    of rounded shapes, many textura are too angular and so they present similar problems.
    Anyway cross-pollination between the two styles it&#39;s a great undiscovered
    territory. After all, blackletter calligraphy derived from the same roman forms
    as many unattractive latin faces of today.
  created: '2003-01-28 13:05:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Gabriel Martinez Meave, the &#34;typographic guru of Mexico&#34;, according
    to the current Step-by-Step Design magazine &#40;called what now?&#41;, and it&#39;s
    true: <BR><a href="http://www.kimera.com.mx/index1.html" target="_blank">http://www.kimera.com.mx/index1.html</a>
    <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-01-28 16:51:02'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Judging by that intro animation I am convinced! &#40;Ick.&#41; How  <BR>do
    you say &#34;gratuitous use of animation&#34; in Spanish?
  created: '2003-01-28 18:34:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Type designers usually suck at other forms of graphic design. Just look at
    me. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-01-28 21:28:03'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: That&#39;s suprisingly true, Hrant. If the reverse is also  <BR>true, maybe
    I can use this as an excuse for why I suck  <BR>so bad at type design.
  created: '2003-01-28 21:34:15'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: My mistake. I was judging by the site and the other  <BR>design and illustration
    offerings. Indeed, there are  <BR>some typographic gems, like <a href="http://www.kimera.com.mx/tipogaleriafrakta.html">this
    one</a>. <BR> <BR>I think I&#39;m going to change the topic of this thread to  <BR>&#39;Randomize
    Me.&#39;
  created: '2003-01-28 22:11:23'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: And <a href="http://www.kimera.com.mx/mac/tipogaleriatolteca.html" target="_blank">
    this</a> one and <a href="http://www.kimera.com.mx/mac/tipogaleriagalaxia.html"
    target="_blank"> this</a> one. <BR> <BR>
  created: '2003-01-28 22:27:30'
date: '2003-01-26 04:09:04'
node_type: forum
title: Possible copyright infringement? FontFont &#34;FF&#34; logo...

---
