---
author:
  name: Miss Tiffany
  picture: 110563
body: "I haven't upgraded to Snow Leopard yet. This thread on the Apple forums gives
  me even more reason not to upgrade. I'm curious how things are going for those of
  you that have upgraded to Snow Leopard and still have oodles of PS1 fonts (like
  me). The problem doesn't seem to be with only PS1 fonts though. :^\\\r\n\r\nhttp://discussions.apple.com/thread.jspa?threadID=2136944&start=0&tstart=0"
comments:
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Just in case this is true -- my office is also looking forward to Snow Lep
    --, someone at Adobe said (imagine here a black mask, heavy breathing) \"I Have
    Foreseen It.\"\r\n\r\nIf you copy your Type 1 fonts into one of the Creative Suite
    apps in a folder named 'Fonts', they are available in that particular application.
    Windows users also have a \"Shared\" Adobe folder; fonts put in there can be used
    in any of the CS apps, and I imagine Macs have something alike."
  created: '2009-09-16 21:14:36'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: So you haven't upgraded yet? I really want to hear from someone who has upgraded.
    I did know about putting the fonts in the Adobe font folder, but is that really
    what Snow Leopard users are going to have to do?
  created: '2009-09-16 21:35:31'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I asked Peter at Apple - his reply... \r\n\r\n\"I believe the issue is the
    many-many relationship between some suitcases and their lwfn postscript files.\r\n\r\nIf
    users have T1 font families with simple suicase--lwfn relations, they work OK
    AFAIK.\""
  created: '2009-09-16 23:36:37'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "@Si - But that doesn't explain the reports that mention TrueType and OpenType
    fonts.\r\n\r\nCould the logic behind handling of the font's vertical metrics have
    changed in Snow Leopard?"
  created: '2009-09-17 00:03:16'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I'll send him another ping. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2009-09-17 05:50:58'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: Simon>>> Who is this Peter at Apple?
  created: '2009-09-17 06:54:37'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Peter Lofting - he's the long-time font guy at Apple...  \r\n http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LastResort#Apple.27s_LastResort_font\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2009-09-17 07:08:40'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: Yep, "Font guy" is actually his title. Seriously.
  created: '2009-09-17 07:42:59'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: FWIW my Illustrator 10 still works on Snow Leopard, and my Multiple Master
    fonts still work in Illustrator 10.
  created: '2009-09-17 13:04:57'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "The single suitcase issue has been around forever. Smasher is just the tool
    for that.\r\n\r\nI have been on SnoLeo for two weeks now and have not seen any
    issues re fonts, but mind: I do not have a production set-up.\r\n\r\nMy fairly
    shallow tests with CS4 apps have not resulted in unsurmountable issues.\r\n\r\n.
    . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-09-17 13:39:48'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Bert, James, did you both read the thread on Apple? I'm very paranoid now.
    I don't want to upgrade. But it is nice to hear some haven't seen the problem.
  created: '2009-09-17 18:08:39'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: <a href="http://www.macuser.co.uk/news/268417/snow-leopard-poses-serious-font-problems-for-quarkxpress.html">Another
    news item from MacUser on this topic.</a>
  created: '2009-09-17 18:26:40'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: 'Interesting quote from that article: "Kurt Lang, author of a detailed examination
    of how fonts work in OS X, says the cause of all the problems is simple: Type
    1 fonts are no longer supported by Mac OS X."'
  created: '2009-09-17 18:34:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...the problems is simple: Type 1 fonts are no longer supported by Mac
    OS X.\u201D\r\n\r\nNice of Apple to clue us in on this little tidbit :-(\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-09-17 18:37:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I still have an older G-5 with a PPC chip so I can't upgrade to Snow Leopard
    but this sure makes my decision to NOT buy a new Mac for a few more years!\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/shootfoot_4112.jpg]"
  created: '2009-09-17 18:42:22'
- author:
    name: Sicko
    picture: 118042
  body: "So, now you'll need to buy all your fonts again (sooner or later). and again
    in a couple of years. \r\nGood for font designers. Right? Too bad I'm not one
    of those."
  created: '2009-09-17 19:44:11'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "One computer installed, 3 more to go -- but, hey, we're in no hurry. No problem
    so far with any font -- we didn't try very hard, as we had other fish to fry.\r\n\r\nItem:
    Safari's Java is not compatible with Java applets we have to use to upload. Firefox
    works fine, but .. what the 'eck?\r\n\r\nItem: printing to a Postscript file,
    using Adobe's PPD, is <em>not</em> dead -- well, not for us. That option disappeared
    from InDesign! Some web searching provided the answer: copy the Adobe PPD from
    your old (yes...) OS 10.5 Library/Printers/Contents/.. (some more path) and paste
    into Snowie. Works again.\r\n\r\nSigh. I'll let you know when we get to the fonts.
    The guys at the office are not <em>extremely</em> impressed, so far."
  created: '2009-09-17 20:37:27'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: Pheau. Perhaps it's time to open a window? Relax & enjoy the vista?
  created: '2009-09-17 21:10:45'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "<em>Item: Safari\u2019s Java is not compatible with Java applets we have
    to use to upload. Firefox works fine, but .. what the \u2019eck?</em>\r\n\r\nAFAIK,
    Safari runs in 64-bit mode by default. That could be the issue, since I know it's
    a problem for the Acrobat Reader plug-in. You can switch Safari to run in 32-bit
    mode, though."
  created: '2009-09-17 21:40:18'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: Chris, I'm in the same boat. Actually I only just upgraded to Leopard. It
    was the last minute, they were already in the back room to be taken away (it was
    the first day of Snow Leopard)
  created: '2009-09-17 21:55:45'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Relax & enjoy the vista?</cite>\r\n\r\nVista doesn\u2019t completely
    support Type 1 either. \r\n\r\nCan Mac users still put the Type 1 fonts into the
    \u2026/application support/fonts directory to make them to work?\r\n\r\n<cite>So,
    now you\u2019ll need to buy all your fonts again (sooner or later). and again
    in a couple of years.</cite>\r\n\r\nOf course designers would do well to remember
    that thirty years ago if they wanted to buy fonts they had to buy expensive photo-typesetting
    machine to use them, find somewhere to put the machines, and a large family could
    run thousands of dollars, etc.. Right now a designer in the US can buy the entire
    Adobe Font Folio collection for what it used to cost to buy the Helvetica family."
  created: '2009-09-17 22:12:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Mili,\r\n\r\nI never switched to Leopard. I am still using Tiger. It didn't
    seem to be worth the switch. Tiger has been very solid for me. Let me know how
    Leopard behaves for you?\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-09-17 22:15:04'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Chris, I just switched my work box from Tiger to plain vanilla Leopard (not
    Snow), because my Tiger computer refused to exchange files with my Leopard computer
    (Mac Book Air). Everything now works just fine.\r\n\r\nOn a related, but lighter,
    note: Is it not a strange marketing/branding strategy to call your OSes after
    increasingly more endangered, rarer beasts? What next, the <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Smilodon\">smilodon</a>?"
  created: '2009-09-18 01:08:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "If any of the Apple OS Felines lock up, you can say they are in a catatonic
    state :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-09-18 01:50:02'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Always go towards the bright white light!
  created: '2009-09-18 03:05:10'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Like <a href="http://blacktable.com/burzynski041118.htm">this</a>?
  created: '2009-09-18 03:22:10'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: I don't use Quark or any Type 1 fonts, only CS4 and OT/TT and i've had not
    probs so far on SL.
  created: '2009-09-18 03:36:09'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Chris,\r\n\r\nI upgraded to CS4 at the same time, so it's hard to tell if
    something happens because the OS or the application. My old Illustrator was acting
    up before, but now things are pretty smooth. An odd crash here and there and there's
    been a couple of total freezes. For those I suspect my daughter's computer habits,
    Messenger et al\u2026"
  created: '2009-09-18 08:23:19'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: Oh, I forgot. With the older Leopard + PCC +CS4 combo the FEx doesn't seem
    to keep fonts activated all the time. There's also some fuss about Helvetica Neue
    3, it being used by the OS
  created: '2009-09-18 09:52:59'
- author:
    name: Arlo Vance
    picture: 111713
  body: 'The only font trouble I''ve had so far (currently using Snow Leopard) is
    the age old conflict with Helvetica Neue. When I tried the workaround: deleting
    the system font and it''s auto-replace file, it screwed up every other font not
    in the system folder, so I had to revert.'
  created: '2009-09-18 16:53:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks, Mili!\r\nChildren do have a way of \"finding\" glitches :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-09-18 17:24:03'
- author:
    name: Corey Holms
    picture: 110575
  body: "Arlo - I have the same problem here. Drives me crazy. \r\nOther than that,
    no issues that I've noticed since the transition. "
  created: '2009-09-18 17:26:26'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "I did a quick test using the Type1 version of FF Milo Text. On-screen rendering
    and linespacing in TextEdit is exactly the same in 10.5.8 and 10.6.1. \u2014 FWIW"
  created: '2009-09-18 21:19:09'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Jens, are you using any font management app to activate the fonts? Which
    one?\r\n\r\nOne thing I'm curious to dig into is this: if Peter's description
    is correct, fonts managed and activated by Suitcase Fusion 2 or Universal Type
    Server might be immune to the problem, as they separate font suitcases automatically
    as part of how they activate fonts....\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-09-19 00:31:44'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "Thomas, I just put the font files into my <em>~/Library/Fonts/</em> folder.\r\n\r\nAs
    far as I know, for Mac Type 1 FontFonts, each style had its own suitcase file.
    The reason was that you could licence every style individually.\r\n\r\nHere is
    a comparison: I typed the some text in TextEdit on 10.5.8 and opened it in 10.6.1
    and made a PDF via <em>Print -> Save as PDF.</em> I rendered these PDFs in Photoshop
    and stacked them as two layers in this file: <a href=\"http://www.kutilek.de/tmp/type1-10.5.psd\">type1-10.5.psd</a>.\r\n\r\nMilo
    has a single suitcase for 1 style, while Univers has 2 suitcases for 8 styles.\r\n\r\nThe
    only difference I see is that TextEdit on 10.6.1 doesn't seem to apply kerning
    (it does for OpenType fonts, though). The bad clipping issue (\xC4\xD6\xDC cut
    off in the first line) occurs in both ..."
  created: '2009-09-19 10:24:07'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thanks for that, Jens. Good to hear that Mac Type 1 FontFonts should be OK.\r\nI
    wonder, do the people who report no problems here use Type 1 fonts too?\r\n(I'm
    overdue for a new Mac\u2026 :-\\ )"
  created: '2009-09-19 12:44:36'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Jens: Well, that seems to support Peter's comments. Lucky for FontShop and
    FontFont users that they happen to have dodged the line-spacing change.\r\n\r\nWhich
    makes me all the more curious about whether using Suitcase Fusion or Universal
    Type Server avoids this problem. Basically these applications split up font suitcases
    down to individual fonts when you bring them in to the app, and keep them separated
    when you activate the fonts. In THEORY, that ought to dodge the line spacing problem.
    Again, an unintended side effect, but rather fortunate if true.\r\n\r\nThe lost
    kerning is interesting and unfortunate. Can anybody confirm if the same problem
    happens in QuarkXPress?\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-09-19 18:09:12'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: I've had no trouble with my Type 1 fonts, but I don't know as much about differentiating
    between the different technologies as most of you do. For context, I'm running
    CS3 on Mac OS X 10.6 using Linotype FontExplorer X version 1.2.3.
  created: '2009-09-20 03:11:41'
- author:
    name: ryanholmes
  body: "It seems there are two potential issues from the above discussion if I read
    the comments correctly: vertical metrics and perhaps, kerning problems. The second
    one I haven't seen as much commentary on but I view it as much more troubling:
    why would the OS not correctly read a plain kern table that appears in every T1
    font? That one needs to get resolved.\r\n\r\nFor the former, a likely explanation
    is that the T1 fonts have always used a different calculation for ascender/descender
    total dimensions in determining vertical metrics, compared to TT fonts and now,
    OTF. In fact, FontLab has a screen for that exact thing, and an easy check if
    this is the explanation would be the following:\r\n\r\nOpen one of the T1 fonts
    causing a problem in Snow Leopard in FontLab. Go to the vertical metrics page
    under font info, and observe the ascender/descender dimensions as-shown. Hit the
    recalculate button. If new numbers appear--and those WOULD be the vertical metrics
    used were it a TT or OTF font--then that is surely the explanation for the leading
    problem in SL. When you use default leading options like \"single-spaced\" in
    software such as Word, TextEdit et al., the OS uses these global vertical metrics
    in determining line spacing. In the SL code rewrite, they are pulling that info
    from the OTF-method and not the former T1-method.\r\n\r\nThis could be confirmed
    one other way as well--for one of your T1 fonts in SL with a reflow problem, use
    an exact-point size leading option in your software (e.g., exactly 14 points)
    instead of a leading option based on the global vertical metrics (e.g., single-spaced,
    or 0.8 times single-spaced). If my reasoning is the explanation, then the former
    will not have the vertical padding problem and the source of this glitch will
    be identified.\r\n\r\nUnfortunately, unless Apple is willing to patch the OS code
    to pull the metrics data using the old approach for T1 fonts, there would seem
    to be no workaround short of reformatting your old documents, or converting the
    T1 fonts to OTF. And if you did the latter, and you \"fixed\" the discrepancy
    between the T1 and TT/OTF methods for calculating vertical metrics, you'd STILL
    need to reformat your legacy document anyway. So either way, it involves needless
    work for the T1 font user--but at least you don't NEED to repurchase your T1 fonts
    just because they are not in OTF format.\r\n\r\nI welcome all comments on my faulty
    logic, I'm just brainstorming in this lengthy post.........and I DO want SL because
    it really jazzes up my Apple TV :-)\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-20 06:03:47'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Just speculating here.... Mac PostScript Type 1 fonts are comprised of two
    files, one containing the PS outline data and basic metrics (the sidebearings)
    and the other, a Mac "suitcase" file containing the kerning, style linking and
    other metrics data. Could it be that Snow Leopard is getting all its info from
    the outline file and ignoring the suitcase file? That would explain the lack of
    kerning and possibly the line spacing discrepancy for some fonts. Perhaps Snow
    Leopard needs the .afm file as well (which was needed for programs that couldn't
    get the metrics from the font suitcase)? Like I said, just speculating.
  created: '2009-09-20 16:17:30'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I think I may be onto something. I opened the PS outline file and the Mac
    suitcase file of one of my old Mac PS Type 1 fonts separately in FontLab. The
    vertical metrics did not match! \r\n\r\nVertical metrics in outline file (also
    same in .afm): \r\nAscender = 667\r\nDescender = 193\r\n\r\nVertical metrics in
    suitcase file:\r\nAscender = 753 \r\nDescender = 248\r\n\r\nThis was a font built
    with Fontographer back in the Nineties.\r\n\r\nNot sure is this is related to
    the Snow Leopard problem, but it's interesting."
  created: '2009-09-20 18:07:59'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "To be more explicit: as Ryan says, it looks like there are two different
    symptoms (line spacing changes and potentially dropped kerning). They doubtless
    have similar causes, but it is possible that as Mark speculates one *might* be
    able to work around the line spacing problem by modifying the fonts. I doubt there
    would be any such solution for the kerning going away.\r\n\r\nMark, why don't
    you try modifying the LWFN outline file so the vertical metrics match those in
    the FFIL suitcase file? I'd do it myself, but I have guests to attend to, both
    my Macs are at work, and I have not upgraded either of them to Snow Leopard, for
    increasingly good reasons....\r\n\r\n(I'll be surprised if Snow Leopard suddenly
    pays attention to AFMs, though.) \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-09-20 19:29:25'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I would do some tests, but I've been holding off upgrading to Snow Leopard.
    Maybe I'll make the leap on one of my machines and try some things out.\r\n\r\nThe
    reason I mentioned the AFM thing is the MacOS X's roots in the Next OS, which
    did use AFM files. It wouldn't surprise me if MacOS X inherited support for AFMs
    from Next."
  created: '2009-09-20 21:11:01'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Possible, but I'd be surprised if that was still there.\r\n\r\nBTW, it occurs
    to me that of course it may be a different version of TextEdit on 10.6 than on
    10.5.x, and it wouldn't surprise me if the kerning loss was a TextEdit issue rather
    than strictly an OS issue. I'll be curious to hear if that problem occurs in other
    apps, and if so which ones. Word? QuarkXPress? Flash? (InDesign, Illustrator and
    Photoshop should be immune.)\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-09-21 00:31:29'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "People that are running into this issue and want to see it addressed by Apple
    should log bugs into their database at http://bugreport.apple.com/\r\nYou will
    need a free [[http://myinfo.apple.com/|AppleID account]], if you don't have one
    yet."
  created: '2009-09-21 19:48:54'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "I'm sorry, I have don't have either Word, Flash or QuarkXpress to test it
    ...\r\n\r\nTextEdit version numbers do differ, 1.5 and 1.6."
  created: '2009-09-21 22:34:58'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: 'I''ve upgraded to Snow Leopard on one machine and tested my hypothesis about
    AFM files: Installing AFM files has no effect on the lack of kerning with Type
    1 fonts in Text Edit on 10.6.1. In my other machine, which is running 10.5.8,
    kerning works in Text Edit for the same Type 1 fonts.'
  created: '2009-09-21 23:06:52'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Oh, and I did note a slight difference in the vertical position of the glyphs.
    They start slightly higher up on the page in Text Edit on Snow Leopard, although
    the line spacing seems identical.
  created: '2009-09-22 00:06:31'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "We did some more testing today at Extensis:\r\n\r\nWe saw a major shift in
    first baseline position for some Type 1 fonts in Snow Leopard compared to Leopard,
    in QuarkXPress 8.1. In this case, they were lower in Snow Leopard, rather than
    higher as in the case Mark describes.\r\n\r\nContrary to what I would have expected,
    given the info from Peter Lofting, activating the fonts with Suitcase Fusion 2
    did not make the problem go away. So I'm unclear on whether splitting up suitcases
    can help.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-09-22 01:17:16'
- author:
    name: Carsten Warnich
    picture: 118071
  body: "Ohhh, this is <strong>bad karma</strong>...\r\n\r\nSnow Leopard / Type 1
    problems also occur in Adobe CS4 Flash.\r\nWith Futura Light and other Futura
    fonts leading is way off.\r\n\r\nConverting fonts doesn't help.\r\nAdjusting vertical
    metrics unsuccessful so far.\r\nRenaming Futura Std fonts so the 'Std' part disappears
    doesn't do the trick either.\r\n\r\nI'm the only Snow Leopard in an organization
    with loads and loads of Flash, InDesign and PhotoShop content in - you guessed
    it - Futura Light.\r\n\r\nI'm forced to revert to Leopard.\r\nDamn this is SO
    not Apple.\r\nWonder if good old Steve has OK'ed the Type 1 stunt?\r\n\r\nCarsten"
  created: '2009-09-22 11:49:14'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I'm sure this was an accidental side effect of other changes on Apple's part.
    People are always too quick to assume something like this is a deliberate strategy
    or evil plot.\r\n\r\nWhose cut of Futura Light are you using, btw?\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-09-22 16:10:44'
- author:
    name: Carsten Warnich
    picture: 118071
  body: "Hey T\r\n\r\nI'm not suggesting a plot. \r\nBut I'm worried why Apple has
    not allready issued a statement on thisted subject. \r\n\r\nThe Futura set I'm
    using is Adobe's. \r\n\r\nNow I've bought the OTF verson called Std. \r\n\r\nC "
  created: '2009-09-22 20:32:02'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>Renaming Futura Std fonts so the \u2019Std\u2019 part disappears doesn\u2019t
    do the trick either.</cite>\r\n\r\nSo are you saying that you see the problem
    with Futura Std (OpenType) as well as the Type 1 version?"
  created: '2009-09-22 21:07:21'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Story has been picked up in the press...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.computerworld.com/s/article/9138833/Bugs_Fixes_Font_problems_in_Snow_Leopard "
  created: '2009-10-03 22:59:57'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I forget... what are Type 1 fonts again?\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-05 14:54:16'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Type 1 fonts? Schizophrenic\u2026 Bipolar\u2026?\r\nAnd those OTF\u2019s
    must have had a lot of therapy \u2014 they are so\u2026 \u201Dcomplete\u201D\u2026\r\n\r\n.
    . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-10-05 15:38:55'
- author:
    name: sh0wn
    picture: 118166
  body: Sorry if this is too brief but now I'm a few hours behind on work. I'm having
    type 1 font issues in Snow Leopard. Specifically with the FF Thesis (Mix, Serif,
    Sans) collection not working at all. I just realized that my specific issue exists
    when using FontExplorer X (latest S. Leopard update too) but not with Suitcase
    Vault. Previously I thought it was only an Apple OS issue but it turns out it
    can be an Apple issue and a software issue. Another quick fix I just found is
    that if you create a "font" folder in the CS application directory, the application
    will open the font with no issues.
  created: '2009-10-05 22:05:04'
- author:
    name: sh0wn
    picture: 118166
  body: I'd just like to add that I may actually be wrong about creating a "font"
    folder in a CS app directory to drop fonts in. That may not work after all. I
    have way too many experiments going on.
  created: '2009-10-05 22:23:29'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Offline, Apple is acknowledging that this is their issue to resolve. I can't
    comment much more than that (thanks to NDAs), but I think people will be satisfied
    with the final outcome, if not with Apple's minimal public communication on the
    issue.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-10-09 06:43:24'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">...I think people will be satisfied with the final outcome...\r\n\r\nOh
    I doubt it. Apple have not had anyone competent to speak with about these issues
    for more than a decade, and I doubt they are doubling their resolution or improving
    their fonts. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-09 11:52:22'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Apple have not had anyone competent to speak with about these issues for
    more than a decade\r\n\r\nWho did you speak to over there? Was their answer incompetent,
    or did they just decline to answer your questions?"
  created: '2009-10-09 16:56:47'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "@David B: Is it okay if I call you a brilliant crank?  :)\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-10-09 18:16:37'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "The point is, we need common options among the OS that allow founders to
    make fonts at optimal quality per user if possible where smaller sizes are in
    use with cross platform applications like on the web. \r\n\r\nThat was the point
    of TT, then OT and OFF; a single file containing the whole font and hints to enable
    high quality in low res., TT. \r\n\r\nImplemented on only 1/4 of the Mac/Win platform,
    in the form of Vista y hints, is \u2014 not helping. And... I reserve the the
    right modify the words after the last em, as time goes on. \r\n\r\nHere's what
    the replacement for Type 1 fonts look like, described by the replacement to PostScript,
    rendered by the replacement to OS9, 9 to 12 point in a design for small sizes...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/BigAgateGrab_4742.jpg]\r\nSorry
    if you try and see this on an iphone, or something. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-10-09 23:14:28'
- author:
    name: typetard
  body: Hi all, with 10.6.2 just released has anyone verified this is fixed/resolved?....
    Would like to know though only using Adobe Creative Suite with FEX or FAP or Fusion...
    thanks
  created: '2009-11-12 10:25:55'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "It was never an issue with Creative Suite applications, anyway (except for
    things not using their standard font engine, such as Flash authoring, or Dreamweaver).\r\n\r\nWhile
    I haven't heard anyone *verify* it per se, Apple has specifically said this is
    fixed in 10.6.2, which is good enough for me.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-11-19 03:18:27'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: Actually, I'm told by Apple that they addressed some things, but there's still
    a dangling issue or two in 10.6.2 which might affect Flash, among others. I believe
    they have a fix pending for what they know about, though. Still, I'd be interested
    to hear about specific, reproducible cases that we could pass to Apple to help
    them stamp out the problems. It's difficult for them to address them without something
    specific to test.
  created: '2009-11-20 07:48:42'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: As it stands, I'm running Snow (10.6.2) and all is well with me. TT, PS, &
    OTF. I have yet to run into a problem but I did just do a fresh reinstall so I
    have very few fonts installed.
  created: '2009-11-20 16:17:24'
- author:
    name: typetard
  body: "Hi all good with me too... thanks again\r\n10.6.2"
  created: '2009-12-01 23:25:41'
- author:
    name: araceli
  body: I have the same problem that Carsten mentioned above -- line spacing is significantly
    off for futura in flash (CS3 and CS4). We have a very large website done in flash
    using that font and I really don't want try manually adjusting the whole thing
    (especially if a fix comes out that would cause a manual fix to go awry). Christopher,
    you mentioned another problem that may be causing this problem... have you or
    Carsten (or anyone else) found any fixes or more information on this specific
    problem? I haven't noticed any other font problems, but this one is significant
    for our firm.
  created: '2009-12-09 16:40:49'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>Christopher, you mentioned another problem that may be causing this
    problem... have you or Carsten (or anyone else) found any fixes or more information
    on this specific problem?</cite>\r\n\r\nLisa, as I said, I think this is still
    in Apple's lap as something to fix. If you have a reproducible problem in Flash,
    can you send me the specific details and steps to reproduce it? We can look at
    it and also forward it to Apple. There have been many reports of problems, but
    very few specific details that would help us get them fixed, so that information
    would be greatly appreciated!"
  created: '2009-12-09 19:01:31'
- author:
    name: araceli
  body: "Thanks for the response, Christopher. When you mentioned the \"dangling issues\"
    that apple is still dealing with, were you following a specific thread on apple's
    site (sorry if I missed that somewhere)? I'd be interested to read more about
    those issues if it's not too difficult to point me in the right direction.\r\n\r\nI'd
    be more than happy to provide any specifics of the problem we're having. Basically,
    we have a flash site that was developed in CS3 using Futura BT fonts and when
    I installed Snow Leopard (not a clean install) and reopened the files, all the
    text had a significant amount of extra space between lines. We have another system
    here that was not upgraded to SL and when I open the same files on that machine
    the spacing is correct. I am currently managing fonts using Linotype FontExplorer
    (the old free version). What other details would you like? I can send files or
    screenshots if that's helpful. Let me know. Thanks for your help.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-10 01:13:01'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "I don't have any specific info about the so-called \"dangling issues\" --
    it's only to say that I've heard not all problems were resolved in 10.6.2.\r\n\r\nThe
    web rumor mill seems to think a 10.6.3 update is imminent, so let's see how it
    looks after you're able to test that."
  created: '2009-12-10 01:31:03'
- author:
    name: JLernDesign
  body: "Glad I found this forum - I've been losing my mind trying to figure out what
    the deal is with the fonts rendering differently. I'm a Flash designer and all
    of my old Flash files are not really usable on Snow Leopard. All of the text is
    nudged so that its slightly off position - would take me forever to go in and
    manually correct all of my files. \r\n\r\nJust bought this Macbook last week and
    updated to 10.6.2. I really hope this gets fixed soon. I might consider running
    a version of Leopard on another hard drive if I can't use these files on Snow
    Leopard. \r\n\r\nI love Apple...but this feels like another Vista.."
  created: '2009-12-18 22:02:11'
- author:
    name: araceli
  body: 'Just wanted to post an update. I installed 10.6.3 yesterday and happily the
    futura fonts in our flash website seem to be back to normal! '
  created: '2010-03-31 21:31:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "http://www.fontlab.com/news-and-events/fontlab-announcements/os-x-10-6-3-good-to-go.html\r\n\r\nAdam
    posted a note on the FontLab site that 10.6.3 is making nice with FontLab and
    that it was safe to go back in the water :-)\r\n\r\n>>>>>\r\nOS X 10.6.3 - Good
    to Go!\r\nWith Apple's release of OS X 10.6.3 all of the problems encountered
    using Fontlab products with earlier 10.6.x versions seem to have been resolved.
    It's safe to go back in the water :)\r\n>>>>>"
  created: '2010-03-31 21:55:57'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Apple specifically asked their 10.6.3 beta testers to look for font issues. '
  created: '2010-03-31 22:10:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Apple specifically asked their 10.6.3 beta testers to look for font issues.\"\r\n\r\nKudos
    to Apple for manning up! Bravo!"
  created: '2010-04-01 00:02:37'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Here''s some refs if anyone is interested - http://www.bing.com/search?q=10.6.3+beta+fonts&src=IE-SearchBox&FORM=IE8SRC '
  created: '2010-04-01 01:40:44'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "My fonts are acting pretty well under 10.6.2 although Distiller seems a bit
    wacked. Apparently the progress bar is poorly written and it distills quickly
    if it is hidden. Weird.\r\n\r\nCareful of 10.6.3 guys. Lots of reports on the
    Apple and Adobe boards of CS4 products crashing and also problems with Samba connectivity
    if you're on a Windows network.\r\n\r\nNot going to go there.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2010-04-01 03:55:52'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Unfortunately, 10.6.3 does not seem to resolve the OS X cache corruption
    issues we've seen a lot of at Extensis. I personally am happily staying on 10.5
    for my main work computer until I see more reason for confidence in 10.6.x.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-04-01 06:57:47'
- author:
    name: mr_cheese
    picture: 111358
  body: "Hi everybody,\r\nhaving followed this thread, and subsequently contacted
    the Underware foundry, I was under the impression that an upgrade to Mac OS 10.6.3
    was going to sort out my problems. Not at all. I am still unable to see my PS1
    fonts under 10.6.3. I'm currently using an older version of font explorer, (V
    1.2.3 build 833). But I've also tested the apple font book. I've also tried putting
    the font I wished to use in a folder (a) directly in my Indesign CS3 app folder,
    or (b) in the FONTS folder nested in the library/app suport/fonts. Neither works.
    Clearly I'm not alone in having problems, but I had the distinct impression from
    the forum that most of you are getting by in 10.6.2, and that 10.6.3 was a good
    move. \r\n\r\nCan anyone direct me to an article summarizing the state of the
    art on this issue ? \r\n\r\nIt is kind of crazy : my old G5 Tiger runs just about
    everything, my iMac Leopard 10.5.8 has no printer support, and now my Snow Leopard
    has no PS1 fonts. Hmmm. \r\n\r\nThanks for any comments\u2026\r\ncheers,\r\nPete"
  created: '2010-04-01 11:53:37'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "Th. Phinney wrote: <cite>\u2026happily staying on 10.5</cite>\r\n\r\nGiven
    I would go to by a new Mac in the near future, what shall I opt for:\r\n\u2013
    Bying 10.6.3 (and see what happens and what not happens\u2026)?\r\n\u2013 Try
    to get a 10.5 machine; can I install a downward version of OS X on a newer machine?\r\n\u2013
    any other thoughts?\r\n\r\nMr Cheese claimed: <cite>\u202610.5.8 has no printer
    support</cite>\r\n\r\nI wondering if I understand this properly. Could you explain
    a little?"
  created: '2010-04-01 12:55:42'
- author:
    name: mr_cheese
    picture: 111358
  body: "Hi Andreas,\r\nconcerning OS 10.5.8, yes, I lost access to both pdf printing
    facilit\xE9s, and all my epson printers. I spent considerable time trying to figure
    this one out, only to discover on mac/web Forums that many people have had similar
    problems : loosing printer access, that is not being able to \"see\" their printers.
    To be quite honest, I am wondering why I ever bothered leaving Tiger. Of course,
    the problem is that I need to follow Adobe, moving through CS2 > CS3 > CS4 later
    this year. So, I am obliged to evolve, but I feel somewhat at the mercy of Apple/Adobe,
    in what they decide they will bother supporting. I have many thousands of euros
    of PS1 fonts in my studio type-library, and I'm kind of wondering what I'm going
    to do with them all.\r\n\r\nMy feeling would be to find a machine which will install
    a pr\xE9-10.5.8 system. Problem with that is that you won't be able to synchronise
    your iPhone !!\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nPete"
  created: '2010-04-01 13:19:50'
- author:
    name: mr_cheese
    picture: 111358
  body: "A couple of lengthy articles concerning font handling in OS 10.6\r\n\r\nhttp://www.prepressure.com/fonts/basics/snow-leopard-fonts\r\n\r\nhttp://www.jklstudios.com/misc/osxfonts.html\r\n\r\ncheers,\r\npete"
  created: '2010-04-01 14:33:22'
date: '2009-09-16 20:40:05'
node_type: forum
title: Snow Leopard is not compatible with PostScript Type 1 Fonts?

---
