---
author:
  name: Bald Condensed
  picture: 110564
body: 'An interesting topic was raised yesterday on the Typophile Chat: some Latin-American
  users complained about the high member fees for ATypI, and asked if it would be
  conceivable to have cheaper fees for -in their own words- &#34;development countries&#34;.
  <BR> <BR>I think this concern is valid. Could it be possible to couple the fee &#40;and
  other member fees in general&#41; to the Gross National Income or Mean Income or
  whatever you call this in English? I don&#39;t mind paying more than someone from
  Argentina, as I probably earn more too. <BR> <BR>Any thoughts?'
comments:
- author:
    name: jfp
    picture: 110395
  body: As I have pointed out yesterday during our discussion, we can
  created: '2003-01-17 13:12:55'
- author:
    name: Ramiro Espinoza
    picture: 110426
  body: 'I believe that is very very tricky the situation: &#34;Rich guy living in
    a poor country / Poor guy living in a rich country&#34;. <BR> <BR>I can assure
    that I know almost every person developing fonts and interested in enter to ATypI
    in my country, Argentina &#40;and many of the other latin american countries&#41;
    and nobody is such &#34;rich guy&#34;. Mr. Porchez... What is your source of information
    about the third world? The CNN channel? <BR> <BR>I strongly believe there are
    a lot of worthy designers in our poor countries and a &#42;real&#42; international
    designers asociation should help to spread the information and collaboration without
    any boundary or limit. <BR>With its elitistic behaviour the ATypI is loosing a
    lot of good designers with fresh ideas and a rich tradition in popular lettering.  <BR>
    <BR>Ignoring the differencies between countries is just to confirm, to afirm,
    to increase the gaps. <BR> <BR>We do not want to be in the ATypI for free. But
    we want to pay fees in relation with the situation of our economies. <BR>A politic
    of grants and voluntary work would be a great beginning. <BR> <BR>There is a long
    and rich humanist tradition in the design heritage. We should act as real humanists,
    being generous with knowlwdge and not acting like stupid snobs.'
  created: '2003-01-17 13:54:24'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: 'Respectable Mr Porchez: <BR> <BR>It'
  created: '2003-01-17 15:29:03'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: Lissenup, I&#39;m still trying to figure out a compromise between JF&#39;s
    correct observation &#40;where can this lead to indeed?&#41; and our Latin-American
    friends who today are the victims of a disastrous economic situation - not wanting
    to exclude any other nationalities in dire straits, bien s
  created: '2003-01-17 15:48:14'
- author:
    name: porky
    picture: 110491
  body: Why should I as an individual pay the same for Adobe Photoshop as General
    Electric? Life, sadly, isn&#39;t fair, and until something dramatic happens &#40;probably
    in about 15-20 years when the oil runs out&#41; that is unlikely to change.   <BR>  <BR>What
    one <i>can</i> do is to formulate alternatives to ATypI. Perhaps by setting up
    a similar organisations in these &#34;developing&#34; areas?   <BR>  <BR>Having
    a diverse global community of groups is often a far better approach than having
    one homogenised umbrella organisation anyhow, and would allow each group to reflect
    and serve the needs of its members more effectively.   <BR>  <BR>I see no reason
    why ATypI could not work with such local organisations and form affiliations,
    maybe working jointly on some projects, thus fullfilling its remit to internationalism,
    helping to share information and furthering our noble art.  <BR>  <BR>Just a thought.  <BR>
  created: '2003-01-17 15:52:56'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: And BTW don&#39;t forget that in a lot of economies in difficulties the barter
    system proves to be an efficient way of keeping things going. So the idea of voluntary
    work is really worth pursuing, as long as there&#39;s a system to it so people
    know what they can expect in return. &#40;If they want to, of course. People should
    still be prepared to stick their neck out expecting nothing in return if they
    can afford it.&#41;
  created: '2003-01-17 15:56:09'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: Spot on as always, David.
  created: '2003-01-17 15:58:32'
- author:
    name: sebahorvath
  body: I agree with Yves Peters. <BR>We can be a community paying fees according
    to our earnings. <BR>Our salaries are 3.5 times lower than internationals, but
    I forgot that for those kind of issues globalization does not apply... <BR>We
    can learn a lot from other countries, other people and other very good designers.
    <BR> <BR>Perhaps some day we can all have the same rights. <BR> <BR>Bye bye <BR>
    <BR>Sebastian Horvath <BR>Buenos Aires, Argentina
  created: '2003-01-17 16:01:43'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: 100 US$? Ouch. Now I understand. <BR> <BR>Say, Ramiro, Elsebra, Sebastian,
    just for the sake of argument, how much can you realistically afford or are you
    prepared to pay? I know of the current economic climate in your part of the world,
    but not enough to make any kind of estimate.
  created: '2003-01-17 16:09:44'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: Jean-Fran
  created: '2003-01-17 16:12:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'A couple of things need to be noted. The financial model under which ATypI
    operates is not all that different from that under which our Argentinian friends
    find themselves. It is not a wealthy association: it struggles to make sure that
    costs are covered from one year to another, very rarely manages to produce a surplus,
    is almost entirely driven by volunteer efforts. Membership fees are basically
    the only way in which the association can pay for its activities between annual
    conferences. Personally, I think it will be necessary for membership fees to be
    increased in order to improve the operational effectiveness of the association.
    <BR> <BR>At the same time, I would love to be able to make the benefits of membership
    available to more people. One option that springs to mind &#40;and which David
    Earls has also raised&#41; is to develop affiliate relations with sister organisations
    &#40;either national or regional&#41; that would provide a means for more regular
    exchange of information between ATypI and type professionals who are not members
    but who may belong to sister organisations. So, for example, an Argentinian type
    association with its own membership rules and fees, might enter into such a relationship
    with ATypI, so that there would be a point of contact between Argentinian designers
    and ATypI. We would need to explore the ways in which this relationship could
    be mutually exploited, to ensure that members of both organisations benefit. It
    would also be necessary to establish guidelines for organisation structures, goals
    and activities to ensure that relations are only established with organisations
    that share ATypI&#39;s goals. If people think this is worth exploring, I could
    take the question to the ATypI board. <BR> <BR>It would be interesting to know
    what kind of type or design associations exist in Argentina, as an example case.'
  created: '2003-01-17 16:18:44'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: '[ Moderator comment: More information on the Association Typographique Internationale,
    or ATypI is available at <a href="http://www.atypi.org" target="_blank">http://www.atypi.org</a>
    ]'
  created: '2003-01-17 16:21:45'
- author:
    name: Ramiro Espinoza
    picture: 110426
  body: 'David: <BR> <BR>In my opinion, to set an organization for members of the
    third world &#40;our counties are not in &#34;develope&#34;, indeed&#41; would
    be the verification that the ATypI is not able to understand what happend here
    &#40;or really don&#39;t care about it&#41;. <BR> <BR>Different professional organizations
    for both rich and poor countries is in my opinion is too similar to some kind
    of segregation. <BR> <BR>One of the points of professional joins is to help each
    others. Obviously it&#39;s harder to help members with problems, but this is what
    happend in the real world, don&#39;t it? <BR> <BR>Solidarity don&#39;t seem to
    be too high in the ratings lately... <BR> '
  created: '2003-01-17 16:23:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; Could it be possible to couple the fee <BR>&#62; ... to the Gross National
    Income or .... <BR> <BR>I don&#39;t see why not. Sure, it&#39;s not perfect, but
    it would work 90%. And it&#39;s not like giving students a price-break is fool-proof:
    anywhere in the world, it&#39;s very easy to fake being a student. <BR> <BR>BTW,
    ATypI isn&#39;t as homogenous itself as it seems from the outside. <BR> <BR>hhp
    <BR>'
  created: '2003-01-17 16:38:54'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: 'Dear Yves: <BR>Probably 30 u$s &#40;100 u$s before our devaluation&#41; it&#39;s
    a much fair price to this lands... <BR> <BR>Dear John Hudson: <BR>Here in Argentina
    exist the &#34;ADG&#34;, an absolutely paralysed organization which can`t, for
    multiple reasons, lead us, designers. One of this reasons can be economic, but
    an important one is a bad management. If the ADG was working properly, it would
    be a nice link to the ATypI and its knowledge. <BR> <BR>Dear Hrant: <BR>Let me
    see if I get what you propose. <BR>Our National Income is more than 100 billion
    dollars yearly. If you set our fee coupling it with this number... We&#39;d to
    pay more than many of European countries. <BR>But we have an humongous debt which
    expropriate all of our resources. This is what it calls the &#34;THIRD WORLD&#34;.
    Rich countries, poor people. <BR> <BR>Regards to the three of you. <BR> <BR>Elsebra
    <BR>Argentina'
  created: '2003-01-17 18:07:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Of course I &#40;and I&#39;m sure Yves&#41; meant <i>per capita</i>. You&#39;d
    use the average individual per-capita income of the home country, or maybe a cost-of-living
    index. Anyway, I&#39;m no economist, I just think it&#39;s not very hard to calculate
    a fair reduction ratio, and implement it. It would make ATypI a richer organization
    not just &#34;culturally&#34;, but in fact financially as well. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-01-17 18:17:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Amigos, <BR>Here&#39;s what you do: write a letter &#40;like a petition&#41;,
    get signatures, as well as more extensive endorsements from prominent ATypI members
    who agree with you &#40;like some of the presenters at the tipoGrafica conference
    in November of 2001&#41;, and send it to ATypI headquarters. Keep the organizing
    group small, use a Typophile SIG &#40;maybe one public and another private&#41;
    to coordinate, agree on a simple &#34;solution&#34;, and if you can do it under
    the auspices of your ADG or something, better. Good luck. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-01-17 18:26:55'
- author:
    name: Ramiro Espinoza
    picture: 110426
  body: 'I insist: The point is not to set another organization. We want a different
    fee politic for our poor countries. <BR> <BR>What you John and David are saying
    is: &#34;We can&#39;t admit poor persons in our club. Come on, set up another
    club for persons like you. May be &#40;if we consider it interesting and profitable&#41;
    we&#39;ll have some relationship&#34;. <BR> <BR>Don&#39;t worry about our organizations,
    make yours &#34;international&#34; one truly democratic. <BR> <BR>Regards. <BR>
    <BR>Ramiro.'
  created: '2003-01-17 18:46:54'
- author:
    name: jfp
    picture: 110395
  body: '&#34;ATypI headquarters&#34; is in fact the small home of Sharon Irving,
    the only people paid to run secretariat. All the rest paid &#40;me and all the
    board&#41; and do voluntary work along the year. <BR> <BR>Stop to dream about
    ATypI, who is perhaps international, but very small in fact. <BR> <BR>I have really
    nothing against bad economical situation at all, I help people everyday with my
    own possibilities at my own level. <BR> <BR>David Earls proposal is good one.
    Follow his idea if ATypI, TDC and others don&#39;t fit to you. <BR> <BR>I repeat
    myself perhaps, but John Hudson who start to organise Vancouver is not paid at
    all for all his coming huge work, same for my 2 days a week during a year to organise
    ATypI in Lyon in 97-98. Stop to dream thanks a lot. <BR> <BR>Fiction is your dreams,
    reality is that ATypI have no resources to compensate various economical situation,
    from countries to people. <BR> <BR>Does Adobe and MS and Apple currently make
    their prices different regarding each countries and people?'
  created: '2003-01-17 18:56:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; ATypI have no resources to compensate various economical situation
    <BR> <BR>But don&#39;t you see that making ATypI membership affordable for those
    who could never pay the &#34;normal&#34; price would <i>inrease</i> our income?
    <BR> <BR>I would further propose that fees for affluent citizens be <i>raised</i>.
    Over here a ticket for an expired vehicle registration is $65! <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-01-17 19:07:51'
- author:
    name: Ramiro Espinoza
    picture: 110426
  body: Mr. Porchez, we know what kind of organization the ATypI is. We don&#39;t
    think that ATypI is huge corporation, but what you are doing is assuming the same
    approach of corporation such MS and Macromedia &#40;...and here they really tolerate
    the domestic piracy what is a kind of understanding about the economic situation&#41;.
    <BR>
  created: '2003-01-17 19:09:29'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: 'Mr Porchez <BR> <BR>Adobe, Microsoft, Apple, Chrysler, DuPont... are capitalist
    &#34;monsters&#34; which the only purpose is make and make and make more money.
    <BR>Do you think is valid to compare ATypI with this kind of corporations? Is
    this your explanation for the policy of the ATypI according to fees? <BR> <BR>Regards.
    <BR> <BR>Elsebra <BR>Argentina <BR> <BR>PS: Hrant, per c'
  created: '2003-01-17 19:23:58'
- author:
    name: eikon
  body: I really don&#39;t see why ATypI should loose resources just because it has
    especial fees to &#34;less rich&#34; countries members. <BR> <BR>Of all the benefits
    I can read on the ATypI website, people like me &#40;living in Latin America&#41;
    could use only the virtual ones, like the member area of the website, or the mailing
    list. I think there&#39;s no exceptional costs in this, for the organisation,
    I mean, this is not as expensive as organising a conference outside. <BR> <BR>I&#39;ll
    not ask ATypI to pay me my airplane ticket to any conference, or even the fee
    to be there. It&#39;s just to be part &#40;a minimal part if you prefer&#41; of
    a group of people interested in typography and design, who share information and
    opinions about this subject. <BR> <BR>I think a fee between US$30 and US$50, would
    be more attainable to us &#40;since the regular student fee is about US$20 it&#39;s
    not so fictitious to think about it, isn
  created: '2003-01-17 19:34:14'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: Jean-Fran
  created: '2003-01-17 19:53:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Ramiro writes: <i>What you John and David are saying is: &#34;We can&#39;t
    admit poor persons in our club. Come on, set up another club for persons like
    you. May be &#40;if we consider it interesting and profitable&#41; we&#39;ll have
    some relationship&#34;.</i> <BR> <BR>This is not at all what I am suggesting.
    I was very clear that the relationship is not between rich and poor &#39;clubs&#39;
    but between an international association and national and regional organisations.
    This proposal is in no way limited to developing countries or countries in financial
    crisis. I think it is a model that could be usefully applied to all kinds of countries
    in which there are interested and committed individuals who are willing to form
    associations and, through those associations, interract both directly and through
    ATypI with associations in other countries. There are already many countries with
    graphic design and/or specifically typographic associations, and these can and
    should provide a point of contact among designers internationally. The benefit
    of such national associations is that they can set membership fees suitable to
    the internal financial situations of the countries in which they operate. Regardless
    of whatever steps ATypI might be able to take to make it easier for designers
    in all countries take part, I don&#39;t think an international association can
    fully take the place of local and national organisations. Elsebra mentioned some
    of the problems of the ADG. Is there any &#39;grassroots&#39; movement to take
    control of the ADG, to manage it better? or perhaps to create a new association,
    perhaps less formally structured that can respond more creatively to the situation
    of designers in Argentina today? <BR> <BR>Having said all that, I&#39;m very happy
    to explore with my fellow ATypI board members ways in which the membership could
    be opened to our colleagues who cannot afford the current, &#39;one size fits
    all&#39; membership fee. I do think it is important, and I would not want to deny
    the possibility without examining the potential impact for good or ill on the
    association&#39;s finances. There is no question that the impact would be for
    the good in all other things; this is only a practical &#40;how do we do it?&#41;
    and financial &#40;how will it affect our income and expenses?&#41; issue. Hrant&#39;s
    suggestion of indexing fees to national economic indicators, while untypical,
    is not a bad way for an international association to proceed, so long as the average
    does not represent a decline in current revenues. The fact that such economic
    indicators are regularly published electronically suggests that the pricing could
    be semi-automated and set by ATypI for each year. Obviously, the number of current,
    renewing and potential new members each year needs to be factored into such calculations:
    ten new members from the USA is going to have a very different impact on ATypI&#39;s
    finances than ten new members from Bangladesh. <BR> <BR>In response to Jean-Fran'
  created: '2003-01-17 19:56:27'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: While I don&#39;t agree with everything Porchez is saying  <BR>in this thread,
    I think it&#39;s important to note that he&#39;s  <BR><a href="http://www.atypi.org/10_Visitors/30_type_on_the_web"
    target="_blank">directed the members of ATypI to this discussion</a> and  <BR>a
    similar thread is underway on their own mailing  <BR>list. Thanks for alerting
    everyone to this important  <BR>issue, Jean-Francois. Keep the dialogue active
    and I&#39;m  <BR>certain some solutions will develop.
  created: '2003-01-17 20:33:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; so long as the average does not represent a decline in current revenues
    <BR> <BR>I think it wouldn&#39;t, for the simple reason that very few people from
    economically troubled regions are currently members anyway! You&#39;d basically
    be adding new members, just at a lower amount of income per. <BR> <BR>&#62; ten
    new members from the USA is going to have a very different impact on ATypI&#39;s
    finances than ten new members from Bangladesh. <BR> <BR>Of course you&#39;re right
    - and that might justify concentrating exposure efforts &#40;like events&#41;
    in affluent countries. But considering ATypI&#39;s current demographic, I would
    think that <i>culturally</i> the ten Bangladeshis would be more interesting.  :-&#41;
    <BR> <BR>Anyway, it&#39;s both pleasant and very encouraging to see an open mind.
    <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-01-17 20:40:51'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: 'I agree with Stephen: let&#39;s please not shoot the messenger here. <BR>
    <BR>Just a quickie to support Hrant&#39;s theory: <BR>A bridge was built, connecting
    Paradise Island to Nassau in the Bahamas. In order to recoup the construction
    costs and maintenance, the companies that built it decided to ask people $2 to
    cross the bridge from one island to the other. <BR>After a certain amount of time,
    those companies notice that they&#39;re actually losing money. First they intend
    to close down the bridge, but instead they lower the fee to $1. Since then, the
    bridge is economically viable: for that amount of money, using an alternative
    simply is not worth it anymore. <BR> <BR>Y <BR> <BR>PS You might ask yourself
    &#40;and with good reason&#41;: is he on drugs? Well, I can guarantee you: I don&#39;t
    even drink coffe. I lock myself up for 4 hours twice a week in a rehearsal room
    that reeks of stale beer and armpits, though. ;&#41;'
  created: '2003-01-17 20:50:51'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: It would be fairest to index all membership fees to economic indicators for
    members&#39; countries of residence. With access to such indicators, this is potentially
    easier than trying to divide the world into vaguer economic blocks. If the USA
    is taken as the high water mark, it is clear that the fee for members from that
    country would need to increase over current levels in order to maintain a balance
    with adjusted fees for members from other countries. Over time, the system could
    be finessed, but initially ATypI would need to look at it&#39;s current membership
    and work out a scale that produces an average fee suitable for not only maintaining
    but improving the operational effectiveness of the association. <BR> <BR>Hm. This
    could be quite fun. I think I&#39;ll pop out and buy a copy of <i>The Economist</i>.
  created: '2003-01-17 20:54:41'
date: '2003-01-17 12:39:04'
title: Archive through January 17, 2003

---
