---
author:
  name: anonymous
body: 'Why not make the future conferences in: Turkey, Croratia, Hungary... and so
  on &#40;and I don&#39;t mean only Europe&#41;? Just an idea. It might cut the costs
  drastically.  <BR> <BR>Do not take me wrong here for I&#39;m not taking any sides.
  I sense a bit of good will and a bit of of cynical pride too. <BR> <BR>Nevertheless,
  totally agree w Anonymous.   <BR> <BR>'
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Just so nobody&#39;s confused: <BR>Most ATypI members are not arrogant, provincial,
    gutless idiots. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-01-18 06:32:51'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: '&#62;Why not make the future conferences in:  <BR>&#62;Turkey, Croratia,
    Hungary... <BR> <BR>I think there was or is some proposal for Prague, but the
    main thing, and a cursory glance at previous venues will tell you this, someone
    has to be in place in the host town to organise: <BR> <BR>Boston: FontBureau crew
    <BR>Den Haag: Royal Acadamie crew <BR>Lyon: JFP &amp; co <BR>Copenhagen: Torben&#39;s
    team <BR>Reading: Reading Uni type dept <BR>Vancouver: Tiro <BR>... <BR> <BR>Someone
    has to be on hand to both know the type &#34;scene&#34; and build a relationship
    locally. ATypI runs on people being volunteers &#40;BTW, I&#39;ve never seen Papazian
    volunter for much, despite all the effort he puts into being a mouthpiece&#41;.
    <BR> <BR>I really don&#39;t understand how people could come to any other conclusion,
    even a cursory view of the accounts shows this. <BR> <BR>So, anyway, get someone
    to be organiser in Split, Rio or Havana and I&#39;m sure the global type cartel
    will be more than happy to travel. <BR> <BR>If the South Americans are serious
    they should be trying to get the conference to go there, to raise the profile.
    Self-help, that&#39;s what it&#39;s all about. <BR> <BR> <BR>Papazian: <BR>&#62;Well,
    &#34;We have members in over 40 nations&#34;,  <BR>&#62;but from going to 3 conferences
    &#40;5 less than <BR>&#62;John, I think - although I&#39;ve been a member  <BR>&#62;about
    a year longer than him :-&#41; it looks like <BR>&#62; maybe 90% are from Europe
    and North America.  <BR> <BR>Last time I checked there were somewhere around 40
    nations in Europe alone. Is there some non-sequiter I&#39;m missing?'
  created: '2003-01-18 07:27:00'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Tanya wrote: <i>The goal of the Org should be to keep profits down to 0.</i>
    <BR> <BR>You&#39;ll be glad to know that ATypI has been extremely successful in
    meeting this goal for many years. Unfortunately, this is often due to lack of
    revenue, rather than because revenue has been spent on providing resources to
    members. This is what I mean when I say that ATypI needs to increase revenue from
    membership fees, and in any other way it can, in order to improve its operational
    effectiveness. Every year, we get together and discuss all the things we would
    like to do to provide members with more benefits; we even make plans. Then we
    go back to our jobs, and over the course of the next year we&#39;re lucky if enough
    volunteer time is available to do a 20% of the things we discussed doing. Ideally,
    I would like to see ATypI in a position to make grants available to subsidise
    worthwhile projects that will benefit all type designers and typographers. Unless
    we find ways to increase revenues, this is unlikely ever to happen. I agree with
    Hrant that finding ways to make membership available to designers in countries
    with developing, unstable or depressed economies can have a positive impact on
    both the culture of the association and on its finances. While Tanya&#39;s idea
    is interesting and creative, I think it would distract the already over-extended
    volunteers who keep the association ticking. We need to find more efficient solutions,
    not more complex ones. '
  created: '2003-01-18 07:30:32'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: 'Papazian: <BR>&#62;Most ATypI members are not arrogant, provincial, gutless
    idiots.  <BR> <BR>Is that a poor attempt at a pangram, or are you just putting
    yourself down again?'
  created: '2003-01-18 07:31:16'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: i just hope hhp didnt really think the key-hitting neardenthal was carlos
    or ramiro, or even me... <BR>you should just focus on the atypi thing instead
    of hitting on our delicate third-world country soul <BR> <BR>just kidding <BR>
    <BR>sentimiento de inferioridad... <BR>no nos pelen! &#40;a very popular chilango
    expression that means nevermind&#41; centuries of cultural opression cant be simply
    erased by paying a membership fee <BR> <BR> <BR>posted as anonymous because im
    not permitted in this elitist area <BR> <BR>no me pelen! <BR> <BR>
  created: '2003-01-18 07:41:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Hrant writes: <i>Well, &#34;We have members in over 40 nations&#34;, but
    from going to 3 conferences ... it looks like maybe 90% are from Europe and North
    America.</i> <BR> <BR>I did some analysis of membership figures today &#40;I don&#39;t
    have the latest figures yet, or a breakdown of full vs. student membership by
    country&#41;, and can report that 90% of members not only come from Europe and
    North America but, more specifically from countries in the top 26 nations ranked
    by GNI per capita. This convinces me that adjusting membership fees relative to
    this index is both viable and desirable. <BR> <BR>I reject the idea that ATypI
    is &#39;geographically elitist&#39;: the figures I provide are explained by the
    historical origins of the association in an Anglo-European type industry. I&#39;ve
    argued for a long time that the demise of that industry provides a positive opportunity
    for reform and renewal in the association; unfortunately, the demise of the industry
    has also produced the financial difficulties that make such reform and renewal
    a slow process. It has been too slow, and I intend to do whatever I can to invite
    membership from a more truly international community. <BR> <BR>Thank you to everyone
    who has participated in this discussion, which has prompted me to take a close
    look at the membership issue relative to national economic indicators.'
  created: '2003-01-18 07:56:58'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: 'Tanya: <BR>&#62;They don&#39;t hand out diplomas simply for paying your way.
    <BR> <BR>That is pretty much exactly what &#34;they&#34; do - the rich get educated,
    the poor do without. And the more &#34;raving capitalist pig bastard&#34; the
    country you live in the truer that is.'
  created: '2003-01-18 08:00:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: '<i>the rich get educated</i> <BR> <BR>Well, the rich get diplomas: they don&#39;t
    necessarily get educated in the process. <BR> <BR>We seem to have about three
    different discussions going on in this thread now. I&#39;m not sure to which one
    this message contributes, if any.'
  created: '2003-01-18 08:02:38'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: but why should we get &#34;educated&#34; on such an artform as typography?
    The techical knowledge is always there, you just grab the software or copy the
    tutorials or come to forums like this. The thing is that there is always the money
    issue but in reality the outcome is what counts. Besides, the more we pay for
    commercial events the bigger the names we help to make &#40;only the names in
    some cases...&#41; when there are a lot of excellent designers who have their
    work being sold by the majors but whose names are never around the events circuit...
    <BR>anyway <BR> <BR>Art is always going to be art and type is no exception. <BR>Thank
    god we still have a way of going it about with out font creations under our shoulder
    even without a degree.  <BR> <BR>im victor yb from mexico, disguised as an anonymous.
    &#40;yes i know i have to spare some buck to the forum but i dont have $$$ right
    now. i promise i&#39;ll do it at the end of the month &#40;they pay me monthly,
    you know...&#41; please dont throw me out. hi to everybody
  created: '2003-01-18 08:14:22'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Victor - While your offer to sponsor Typophile is generous and appreciated,   <BR>I
    want to be sure you know that <a href="http://www.typophile.com/cgibin/board-profile.pl?action=register"
    target="_blank">registration</a> to post on this forum is <a href="http://www.typophile.com/needs/your/support/"
    target="_blank">free</a>.
  created: '2003-01-18 08:34:36'
- author:
    name: delgadovic
    picture: 110430
  body: what i mean is i want to ascend to the heights of an &#34;ascender&#34; member
    but i have to wait for payday. btw thanx for the opinion on Roisin i just posted
    the hair weight but of course it is a full superfamily...
  created: '2003-01-18 08:40:11'
- author:
    name: jfp
    picture: 110395
  body: 'Thanks for translations! <BR> <BR>&#40;Bensonfish translation: ...There are
    poor people in rich countries, and there are rich people in poor countries. Designers
    aren&#39;t usually the most rich or the most poor...&#41; <BR> <BR>My point with
    this early comment that if you built different prices by countries, we will have
    immediatly more complains from actual members who can&#39;t afford as &#34;poor
    in rich countries&#34; when others will have lower price. <BR> <BR>Its difficult
    to set up various prices depending countries, very complicate, take time, so this
    new idea really need to be strongly built in way the balance move to the correct
    side to achieve that idea. <BR> <BR>This problem in some aspect similar as if
    you set up various value of a vote depending from where you came from: cities,
    surburb, country side. Its not democratical at all, I think.'
  created: '2003-01-18 08:43:21'
- author:
    name: matha_standun
    picture: 110362
  body: A quick word to Jean Fran
  created: '2003-01-18 11:58:12'
- author:
    name: Ramiro Espinoza
    picture: 110426
  body: '&#62;&#62;ATypI cannot subsidise membership based on <BR>&#62;&#62;locality,
    and South America is &#42;NOT&#42; <BR>&#62;&#62;the third world. <BR> <BR>Ufff!!
    <BR>Another CNN freak... <BR> <BR>Ramiro. <BR>'
  created: '2003-01-18 12:08:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; I&#39;ve never seen Papazian volunter for much <BR> <BR>You haven&#39;t
    been paying attention. <BR>What about you? Who <i>are</i> you? We don&#39;t know.
    <BR> <BR>&#62; Last time I checked there were somewhere <BR>&#62; around 40 nations
    in Europe alone. Is there <BR>&#62; some non-sequiter I&#39;m missing? <BR> <BR>Of
    course: you can -and do- have 100 members from a European country, but 2 from
    a South-East Asian one. <BR> <BR>&#62; more specifically from countries in the
    top 26 nations ranked by GNI per capita. <BR> <BR>A useful stat, thanks much.
    <BR> <BR>&#62; we will have immediatly more complains from actual members <BR>
    <BR>Complaint, shmonplaint. How many of them would actually leave? <BR> <BR>And
    I think Matha has a point: lack of affluence is often coupled with having more
    free time. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-01-18 15:45:32'
- author:
    name: matha_standun
    picture: 110362
  body: '&#62; And I think Matha has a point: lack of  <BR>&#62; affluence is often
    coupled with having more  <BR>&#62; free time.  <BR> <BR>True, but my main point
    was that ATypI is not taking advantage of the skills of its members. We&#39;re
    all enthusistic enough about type to pay our membership fees and, rich or poor,
    we all have some free time. With a little imagination money becomes less of a
    problem. <BR> <BR>Matha. '
  created: '2003-01-18 16:40:07'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Mon ami Jean-Fran
  created: '2003-01-18 19:02:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; ATypI is not taking advantage of the skills of its members. <BR> <BR>On
    the other hand, there really isn&#39;t enough volunteerism. <BR> <BR>Last year
    I did a very challenging &#40;to me&#41; translation of a French article into
    English &#40;gratis&#41;, for publication in our next Journal... but now it seems
    there&#39;s not enough [free] manpower to actually put the thing out! <BR> <BR>--
    <BR> <BR>John, nice &#34;summary&#34;. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-01-18 22:09:33'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: 'Martha: <BR>&#62;True, but my main point was that ATypI is not <BR>&#62;taking
    advantage of the skills of its members. <BR> <BR>This is nonsense, you volunteer,
    you don&#39;t get drafted. You want to volunteer then do so, otherwise I don&#39;t
    see the complaint. <BR> <BR>Porchez and Hudson know the score here. In any such
    organisation you&#39;ve probably got about a dozen people working their arses
    off making things happen while all around the mmbership is saying &#34;there should
    be more, for less&#34;, or &#34;I would help out if I could but I&#39;m really
    rather busy&#34;. <BR> <BR>Sorry, I&#39;ve got no sympathy for your apparent failure
    to act on your desire to be a cog in the machine - likewise with all the other
    whiners.'
  created: '2003-01-18 22:09:47'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: 'Ramiro: <BR>Tiffany: comparing your standard with the life of persons who
    live in a country where there are thousands of children really starving, you&#39;re
    living the high life... <BR>------- <BR> <BR>This is just hypocrisy. You know
    of thousands of children starving in your locale and you come here whining about
    needing support from ATypI - you need support from UNICEF or the world bank or
    something. <BR> <BR>Please consider giving up your internet connection and donating
    what you save to those poor children!'
  created: '2003-01-18 22:19:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; Porchez and Hudson know the score here. <BR> <BR>You keep saying that,
    but it&#39;s very clear they&#39;re not in agreement! <BR>Are you listening to
    anything besides the voices in your head? <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-01-18 22:23:43'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: I am not an ATypI member, but I can answer your question. <BR> <BR>No, ATypI
    is not elitist.
  created: '2003-01-18 22:24:56'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: '&#62;You haven&#39;t been paying attention. <BR> <BR>Sorry, you translated
    one article in being ten years as a member. Was that your claim to fame? <BR>
    <BR>&#62;What about you? Who are you? We don&#39;t know. <BR> <BR>I&#39;ve done
    my bit - no worries there - for ATypI and other organisations. <BR> <BR>&#62;Of
    course: you can -and do- have 100 members  <BR>&#62;from a European country, but
    2 from a  <BR>&#62;South-East Asian one. <BR> <BR>Given that the organisation
    we are talking about is historically based in &#34;the west&#34; and on the Roman
    typographic tradition I don&#39;t find this at all surprising. <BR> <BR>One might
    equally cite the lack of winners from outside South East Asia in the kanji section
    of the Morisawa competition or the few &#34;westerners&#34; taking Japanese or
    Arabic calligraphy classes. <BR> <BR>Though I wouldn&#39;t bother since there
    is clearly no point to such comparisons. <BR> <BR>As far as ATypI fees go I think
    they should be increased, significantly.'
  created: '2003-01-18 22:32:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: I agree, elitist is not the right word/idea. <BR>But some members are jingoistic.
    Or just dense. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-01-18 22:33:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: I&#39;ve been a member only since &#39;99, and I&#39;ve done a number of other
    things. <BR>Who are you? <BR> <BR>Historically, shmistorically. There should be
    more non--European/North_American members in ATypI, and since the economic inequality
    is a barrier to that, we should try to circumvent it. Read what John just wrote.
    <BR> <BR>&#62; One might equally cite the lack of winners from outside South East
    Asia in the kanji section of the Morisawa competition <BR> <BR>You must be the
    same anonyrat who thought Mandarin is a writing system... You should get out more.
    <BR> <BR>BTW, did you notice the disproportionate amount of South American presence
    in this year&#39;s Morisawa, which is free to enter? And their absense in the
    TDC competition, which is expensive? Get it? <BR> <BR>&#62; they should be increased,
    significantly <BR> <BR>For you and your ilk, most definitely. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-01-18 22:44:30'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: '&#62;I&#39;ve been a member only since &#39;99,  <BR> <BR>Sorry, my mistake,
    I was counting from another reference - but then I remembered the reference was
    false. <BR> <BR>&#62;and I&#39;ve done a number of other things. <BR> <BR>Please
    tell us all about them, to show us how this volunteerism works. Did you help organise
    a conference, develop the new web site, set up the mailing list, layout the newsletter,
    write plenty of articles &#40;by jove you certainly seem to have the time for
    it&#41;, take student members and guide them towards the light, help at registrations
    during the conference... <BR> <BR>What? <BR> <BR>&#62;Who are you?  <BR> <BR>My
    point to you, who are you? Exactly? <BR> <BR>You are the Hrant with your swagger
    and Kalashnikov. But aside from that how do you contribute - lay bare the facts.
    <BR> <BR>&#62;Historically, shmistorically. There should be  <BR>&#62;more non--European/North_American
    members in <BR>&#62;ATypI, and since the economic inequality is a <BR>&#62;barrier
    to that, we should try to circumvent it. <BR> <BR>The barrier is not monetary.
    The barrier is that the org is fairly script-centric - there&#39;s pretty much
    no interest in it for other than Roman scripts and vice versa. <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;
    You must be the same anonyrat who thought <BR>&#62; Mandarin is a writing system...  <BR>
    <BR>No clue what you&#39;re on about.  <BR> <BR>&#62;BTW, did you notice the disproportionate  <BR>&#62;amount
    of South American presence in this year&#39;s <BR>&#62;Morisawa, which is free
    to enter?  <BR>&#62;And their absense in the TDC competition,  <BR>&#62;which
    isexpensive? Get it?  <BR> <BR>Please read what I wrote again, in the &#42;kanji&#42;
    section of the competition - dumbass! <BR> <BR>What&#39;s your inference, they&#39;d
    rather send parcels to Tokyo than New York? <BR> <BR>What&#39;s the comparative
    postage? <BR> <BR>&#62;For you and your ilk, most definitely. <BR> <BR>Papazian,
    you know nothing.'
  created: '2003-01-18 23:00:43'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Hrant writes: <i>You keep saying that, but it&#39;s very clear they&#39;re
    not in agreement!</i> <BR> <BR>Broadly, I think Jean-Fran'
  created: '2003-01-18 23:01:30'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: 'Papazian: <BR>&#62;You keep saying that, but it&#39;s very clear  <BR>&#62;they&#39;re
    not in agreement! <BR> <BR>Take an English class, gain some comprehansion skills.
    <BR> <BR>Hudson and Porchez know very well that 5% of the membership does 95%
    of the work.'
  created: '2003-01-18 23:11:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Dear this form is busted, <BR>You have now disqualified yourself from deserving
    an answer. <BR>Congratulations, very people are capable of that feat. <BR> <BR>hhp
    <BR>
  created: '2003-01-18 23:18:53'
date: '2003-01-18 05:25:55'
title: Archive through January 18, 2003

---
