---
author:
  name: TBiddy
  picture: 110666
body: "Well...this his been the talk of the graphic design community for the past
  couple of days.  http://bit.ly/KcNFe\r\n\r\nI've heard <strong>many</strong> opinions
  from graphic designers, but I haven't heard many opinions from the type community.\r\n\r\nI
  think there is a big gray area pertaining to the \"font issue\" in logo designs.
  <a href=http://www.istockphoto.com/forum_messages.php?threadid=119471>Here's the
  iStockphoto statement</a href>.\r\n\r\nAnyone have thoughts on the matter?"
comments:
- author:
    name: peterf
    picture: 111998
  body: "Seems like if you've licensed the font(s), there should not be license issues...\r\nalthough
    I expect there will be different opinions on that question.\r\n\r\nTo some degree
    it does stretch the limits of 'single-user' licensing, to be sure.\r\n\r\nPF\r\n\r\n\r\nhttp://slowprint.com/
    Letterpress for Typographers!\r\nhttp://alphabets.com/"
  created: '2009-09-24 21:00:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "This is just nuts! Design a logo with no brief that can be used for whatever,
    then you will certainly have a \"unique\" identity. This says to your clients
    \"Come buy from Brand X, we care enough to do the least.\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-09-24 21:31:11'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'I''m not a type designer, but yea, the problem seems to be that *if* the
    face is licensed, no biggie. The problem is that people creating logos for pennies
    tend to likely not be the kind of folks legitimately licensing a whole lot of
    typefaces. '
  created: '2009-09-24 21:56:59'
- author:
    name: Bloodtype
    picture: 114182
  body: 'This is truly awful. Logos are designed for a specific company/ product/
    etc. The idea that they can be used like clip art is absurd and dumb and sad.
    I think the universe must have already started contracting, and before long everything
    will look and be exactly the same: one infinitely tiny, infinitely dense mediocre
    mass.'
  created: '2009-09-24 22:01:04'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: K-mart for logotypes.
  created: '2009-09-24 22:07:08'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Logo chop-shops are why the next revision of my EULA will require users to
    purchase a full license every time the typeface is used in a logo.
  created: '2009-09-24 22:21:29'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: They do write in the link biddy posted that the logos will be sold only once.
  created: '2009-09-24 22:54:46'
- author:
    name: bemerx25
    picture: 112539
  body: "Well to be fair to iStock they do require the type to be rendered as outlines.
    In such a case, the standard license requirements would seem to fit the bill.
    \r\n\r\nBut I personally think \"stock\" logos as an idea is a poor one. But I
    guess somebody sees \"value\" in it..."
  created: '2009-09-24 23:15:55'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "If one hates it that much, just put \u201CCan not be used in stock logos\u201D
    in the EULA! People who buy those would never pay for decent work anyway."
  created: '2009-09-24 23:20:16'
- author:
    name: Bloodtype
    picture: 114182
  body: "Maybe you could let anyone use any logo as long as it has a watermark over
    it, and a \xA9"
  created: '2009-09-24 23:24:56'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: This whole trend of disposable design saddens me. Spec book covers for publishers,
    instant logos, and let's not forget free fonts. However, once something like this
    gets going there is no stopping it, and we must either adjust or do something
    else. Personally, I am glad I'm over sixty.
  created: '2009-09-25 01:30:11'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "Well actually ... here's a positive spin on it.\r\n\r\nIf such a well known
    cheap resource for hacks takes away the number of time waster requests along the
    lines of \"hey I need a logo\" \"ok it'll cost you $X amount\" \"but I can get
    a logo online for $100\"\r\n\r\n... then I kinda welcome the change.<br />\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Logo
    Design Melbourne</a>"
  created: '2009-09-25 03:54:13'
- author:
    name: Bloodtype
    picture: 114182
  body: good point!
  created: '2009-09-25 03:57:03'
- author:
    name: Manlio Napoli
    picture: 111362
  body: Paul certainly has a good point. I already have a long list of tedious people...
  created: '2009-09-25 13:13:14'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "i don't get how the designer can make money on the logo if it is sold only
    once for 100-750 istock credits... i mean if you were gonna do this (i'm not!)
    wouldn't the point be to sell as many copies as possible to make as much $$$ as
    possible? otherwise, how do you get all your time back? \r\n\r\nI guess you just
    make crap 'logos' and get some cash...\r\n\r\ni dunno the whole thing seems fishy
    to me..."
  created: '2009-09-25 13:36:38'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: 'I dunno, I could probably crank out at least twenty bad logos a day if I
    downloaded a bunch of clip art and recycled ideas from logo books. '
  created: '2009-09-25 13:42:40'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: I like Paul's point. It would be a delight to dismiss a client without actually
    having to <strong>diss</strong> them. :)
  created: '2009-09-25 14:37:52'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"i don\u2019t get how the designer can make money on the logo\"\r\n\r\nThey
    don't. Logo contest/crowdsource/mill sites really aren't a way to make an actual
    profit. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-25 15:10:11'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Logo contest/crowdsource/mill sites really aren\u2019t a way to make
    an actual profit.</cite>\r\n\r\nSure they are. Once you\u2019ve entered a dozen
    logo design contests you don\u2019t really have to design anything, you just keep
    tweaking and resubmitting permutations of the same old ideas. If you pirate all
    your fonts, software, and stock art the costs are even lower. And if you\u2019re
    a working designer you can start by selling old comps or buy comps from other
    designers. And the same people who do these logos are also cranking out template-based
    web sites that pay much more than the logo contests. Sure this stuff doesn\u2019t
    pay much, but it probably adds a nice chunk of income to small-town designers
    or designers living in the third world."
  created: '2009-09-25 15:20:59'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I was just thinking about the math and I realized just how great the logo-contest
    business is for a young designer. Spend thirty days making one design a day, each
    on based on an existing logo to save time, and choose a different business area
    for each design. Make sure each logo is carefully structured on named layers in
    Illustrator for easy re-use. In the next thirty days, make three distinguishable
    variations of each logo. Now you have ninety designs to recycle across the various
    logo contest sites. Now wake up every morning and submit five logo designs in
    fifteen minutes, and maybe win two or three design contests each week. In the
    meanwhile you\u2019re sharpening your production skills and you\u2019ve got an
    entire page of logo designs for the portfolio. Not such a bad way to go\u2014especially
    in a tough job market!"
  created: '2009-09-25 15:43:50'
- author:
    name: Bloodtype
    picture: 114182
  body: I still don't understand how you can just submit a logo in the abstract, without
    any brief.
  created: '2009-09-25 16:08:34'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I still don\u2019t understand how you can just submit a logo in the
    abstract, without any brief.</cite>\r\n\r\nAre you kidding me? Just draw little
    stylized marks with no text! An illustrator could spend an hour a day cleaning
    up a few doodles from his sketchbook and have dozens of stock logos for sale to
    small business owners who will buy the mark, tack on their name in whatever free
    graphics software they have, save it as a tiny JPEG, and use it for years."
  created: '2009-09-25 16:12:15'
- author:
    name: Bloodtype
    picture: 114182
  body: I suppose I could spend a week just on spirals - they seem popular. I believe
    Private Eye magazine used to run a regular feature of shockingly similar, bland
    spiral logos.
  created: '2009-09-25 16:16:36'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "The biggest downside to this is twofold, in regards to type. At $5 per logo
    selected, you can't afford to license type. So your logos will:\r\n\r\nA) Use
    software package fonts\r\nB) Use pirated fonts\r\n\r\nThere's no way anyone's
    wasting time to draw custom type for these projects, so it'll be about what's
    trendy or overwhelmingly acceptable (Bank Gothic, Papyrus, and Trajan, here we
    come). And there's no way anyone's going to be able to police these, so I predict
    that the majority of logos using non-package fonts will be using pirated ones.\r\n\r\nBut
    in the end, it's about the clients. If they want cheap, they will get it. Let
    them. There will always be those willing to pay for quality and they will reap
    the benefits."
  created: '2009-09-25 16:17:02'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"Are you kidding me? Just draw little stylized marks with no text!\"</cite>\r\n\r\nExcept
    that's not designing, that's doodling.\r\nYou want random pretty stuff in your
    portfolio?"
  created: '2009-09-25 16:32:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Who wants the s\xDFit market? If grinding out crap appeals to you, go for
    it and be what you do.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-09-25 16:36:44'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: Good point, altaira. I'd love to see them defend that work at an interview
    for any decent studio/firm. Reap what you sow.
  created: '2009-09-25 16:40:20'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>At $5 per logo selected\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s $5 before the
    logo is actually sold. Once someone purchases the logo the designer gets royalties
    based on the price, which iPhoto claims will run 100 \u2013\_750 credits, so that\u2019s
    somewhere around $80 \u2013\_$700. \r\n\r\n<cite>There\u2019s no way anyone\u2019s
    wasting time to draw custom type for these projects\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t
    think anyone is drawing custom type for at least ninety percent of the logos in
    use today. I could spend an hour walking around Manhattan and spot hundreds of
    wordmarks made together from unaltered type.\r\n\r\n<cite>Except that\u2019s not
    designing, that\u2019s doodling.</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd nobody designs logos by doodling
    up a bunch of shapes that are tangentially related to what the client does? Logo
    design doesn\u2019t need to be lofty, it just needs to be technically competent.
    These are logos\u2014not art.\r\n\r\n<cite>You want random pretty stuff in your
    portfolio?</cite>\r\n\r\nAny portfolio page of logos is going to look random to
    someone who doesn\u2019t know the clients. As long as they look good it\u2019s
    not going to matter\u2014it\u2019s not like a prospective employer is going to
    ask for a detailed explanation of a every concept when they\u2019re hiring someone
    to do production work."
  created: '2009-09-25 16:43:45'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "James, I understand your idea...but I think the permutations will look like
    essentially what they are: \"sketches.\"\r\n\r\nAny art or creative director worth
    their weight will be able to discern the difference between sketches and conceptualized
    logo marks.\r\n\r\nThere are many different ways and \"hands\" with which to build
    a logo. And the <strong>name</strong> and <strong>vision</strong> of the company
    is often what helps indicate that direction.\r\n\r\nProduction skills come from
    experience and working under actual deadlines IMHO. And for that they go to a
    staffing agency, where the agency has already vetted the applicant using production
    exam. :)"
  created: '2009-09-25 17:43:16'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Sure they are. Once you\u2019ve entered a dozen logo design contests you
    don\u2019t really have to design anything, you just keep tweaking and resubmitting
    permutations of the same old ideas. If you pirate all your fonts, software, and
    stock art the costs are even lower.\"\r\n\r\nTrue, but even then, you really aren't
    making a profit based on the time spent.\r\n\r\nMost of these types of logos aren't
    being submitted by graphic designers. They're mostly hobbyists/kids/etc. Nothing
    wrong with that, but you get what you pay for. And they earn what they're worth,
    I guess. \r\n\r\nCheap logo systems seem to benefit one party: the party hosting
    the logo system and taking the cut. Rarely does a customer get something worth
    what they paid and rarely does the designer get paid what they are worth. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-25 18:09:27'
- author:
    name: Ale Paul
    picture: 110500
  body: "I asked on twitter about that, thats what I got\r\n\r\n@sudtipos > Who will
    check that fonts being used by the designers selling logos for $5 through @istockphoto
    are legit licensed?\r\n@iStock > @sudtipos That would be part of the inspection
    process just as it is currently for all Vector submissions.\r\n@sudtipos > @iStock
    will you ask for a font license receipt or will check if the designer is on the
    distributors database? what if he customized it?\r\niStock > @sudtipos The contributor
    manual is not yet complete, but once it is available it should clarify how to
    handle fonts.\r\n\r\nLets see..."
  created: '2009-09-25 19:26:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Would you trust a man for a $5 logo?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-09-25 20:05:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "If a client thinks his own company's image is only worth $5 then he gets
    what he pays for.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-09-25 20:07:01'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Thanks Ale. This is <em>exactly</em> what I was curious about. It requires
    A LOT of policing. I wonder if they're prepared for this legally.\r\n\r\nI also
    just followed you. ;)"
  created: '2009-09-25 20:30:59'
- author:
    name: designtn
    picture: 113015
  body: Now, the client can make the logo "bigger" themselves.
  created: '2009-09-25 21:15:17'
- author:
    name: rampageraptor
    picture: 118101
  body: "This could just be my own naivete, but it seems to me like the photography
    industry wasn't dealt a death knell when iStock started up. I'm sure graphic design
    will sill be a very viable industry, even after this takes off.\r\n\r\nTo that
    end, however, I can definitely see this becoming a licensing nightmare...\r\n\r\nR//R"
  created: '2009-09-25 22:46:07'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "James, who's talking about art? Design, in my book, is about problem solving.
    And how can you solve a problem without knowing the problem? This is like throwing
    out a big pile of random, unlabeled medicine for sick people, who also don't know
    exactly what they're suffering from, to pick and choose from \u2013 randomly,
    maybe based on the pretty color of the pills\u2026"
  created: '2009-09-25 22:46:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: ":-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-09-25 23:36:45'
- author:
    name: tmac
    picture: 117522
  body: "I think this will form a community of people (istock logo workers) with a
    much higher incidence of font piracy than any other people working in the field
    outside of istock volunteerism (by which I mean designers that don't contribute
    to istock). Contracts will likely place responsibility on the art worker/volunteer
    for font licensing and guarantees of originality.\r\n\r\nThe logos themselves
    are largely meaningless. For example, a client came to us for a dance company
    logo precisely because she did not want swooshy starfish-like cutouts of humanoid
    dancers, with perhaps a little star. If I search dance on the future iStock logo
    site, what do you think I'll find? Photography was similar -- stock is unacceptable.
    However, I had to put up a little free time. Still, these are the people you want
    to work for.\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-26 05:16:23'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "There's nothing new here.\r\n\r\nBack in the day, as they say, Joe, of Joe's
    Towing would walk into a print shop and order some business cards. The printer,
    being a good business man would try and up-sell Joe by offering a \"logo\". Joe
    would say, Uh... The printer, being sharp, would quickly haul out the 'big book'
    before Joe had the chance to say no, and open it to the Tow-truck section. There
    would be a couple dozen pictures that fit the theme \"towing company\". Joe would
    pick one and the printer would set \"<b>JOE'S TOWING</b>\" in Cooper Black next
    to it. \r\n\r\n90% of businesses just don't care - Never did and never will care
    about anything but the price when it comes to marketing themselves. They'd never
    see the point in shelling out for a font, and if they end up using one illegally,
    it's no loss really, because their alternative to stealing a font would not be
    paying for it.\r\n\r\n\r\nSelf medicating isn't new either :o)\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2009-09-26 06:08:28'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: great point russell.
  created: '2009-09-26 16:21:46'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "BTW, I know that some will find my position in this elitist, and maybe it
    is; but I stand by it. Whoever calls doodling designing undermines what it can
    really be, IMO. We designers have a raison d'\xEAtre beyond making things \"pretty\";
    and apart from the direct responsibility towards our clients, we have a constructive
    function in society. We help shape visual culture, people. We should try harder."
  created: '2009-09-26 17:18:04'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: Yep. What Russell said. We might consider ourselves problemsolvers. For clients
    we are just another service industry. They order. You deliver. The cheaper, the
    better.
  created: '2009-09-26 17:44:32'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Well now - I don't want to go to far down that road. Right now now of my
    (few) clients are any thing like that. I think the 10% of business that do understand
    least a little about the value of good design, leaves lots of potetial clients
    out there, and they're the ones with the money.\r\n\r\n:o)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2009-09-27 02:47:09'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> I still don\u2019t understand how you can just submit a logo in the abstract,
    without any brief.\r\n\r\nAh, that is because you are thinking about effective,
    professional logos. Istockphoto is thinking about selling commodities.\r\n\r\nAnd
    it really won't be all that much difference to designers. There is already the
    \"my nephew designed it\" and \"we'll run a contest for the grade 7 art class\"
    customers. Those are more likely the ones that will buy from Istock. If nothing
    else, it might establish $100 as the floor price of a logo. (There are some customers
    who think that is too much)."
  created: '2009-09-28 15:51:19'
- author:
    name: mekka
    picture: 114851
  body: "My opinion? Using someone else\u2019s font in a logo design and then claiming
    you made the logo, is PLAGIARISM, since most of the visible work was usually done
    by the type designer, not the logo \u2018designer\u2019. So many logos consist
    of not much more than the type."
  created: '2009-09-28 17:21:18'
- author:
    name: Bloodtype
    picture: 114182
  body: So istocklogo is really no different from a clip art library or dingbat font
    (with or without stolen fonts), as a logo without context is a pictogram/ stylised
    image.
  created: '2009-09-28 18:03:38'
- author:
    name: Bloodtype
    picture: 114182
  body: "Here's some spiral logos from hell:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.splorp.com/critique/"
  created: '2009-09-28 18:04:45'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> Using someone else\u2019s font in a logo design and then claiming you made
    the logo, is PLAGIARISM, since most of the visible work was usually done by the
    type designer, not the logo \u2018designer\u2019.\r\n\r\nSo then a book is also
    plagiarism too, right? I mean, it is all type as well.\r\n\r\nI have to disagree
    with your claim. "
  created: '2009-09-28 20:09:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The clients who fall for this will get exactly what they pay for, a cheap
    logo-shaped object that will identify them with garbage. \r\n\r\nLet them have
    their garbage. They will have the perfect logo for their image and the aroma that
    goes with it. This kind of client has never been a customer for a respectable
    graphic designer. They have typically chosen the table scraps of job-shop printers
    or re-heated clip art as carry-out branding. He who lives by MacLogo, dies by
    MacLogo.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-09-28 23:22:35'
- author:
    name: Ale Paul
    picture: 110500
  body: I dont care about what the designers are going to design to sell there. I
    m worried about if they are going to use legal copies of the fonts to summit the
    first 10 thouthand logos and win 5$. I hope iStock introduces some protection
    over that issue but I doubt it will be possible to check so huge amount of designs.
    Maybe the best idea will be to introduce a point at the EULA to not allow the
    use on stock logos. Is that possible?
  created: '2009-09-28 23:39:53'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "I get where your coming from Ale, I just don't know how that's different
    to the current situation ... design contest sites or otherwise, there are plenty
    of designers and businesses who operate without properly licensing fonts.\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic Design Melbourne</a>"
  created: '2009-09-29 00:42:01'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: I doubt that many fonts would be used, as generic logos cannot use names or
    words.
  created: '2009-09-29 07:52:35'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: But I'd expect to see letters on some of them.
  created: '2009-09-29 15:48:41'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Design, in my book, is about problem solving. And how can you solve
    a problem without knowing the problem?</cite>\r\n\r\nSome design problems are
    pretty easy to solve. Larry the plumber just needs a logo with a pipe and a wrench
    that he can stick on his business card and his truck. He shouldn\u2019t need to
    pay a designer $1000 for that, and may not have the money to. But Larry can solve
    that design problem in about ten minutes if he can find a little drawing of a
    pipe and a wrench with the word \xBBPLUMBING\xAB under it on iStock. \r\n\r\nYes
    stock logos will result in some people getting a logo that looks terrible or out
    of place. But they\u2019re not always going to be the wrong way to go. "
  created: '2009-09-29 16:11:04'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "don't worry about it. 99.9% of any letters on these logos will be Arial or
    Papyrus. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2009-09-29 16:11:55'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>[stock logos] they\u2019re not always going to be the wrong way to
    go.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nYes they are, in terms of what a logo is supposed to be, what
    it's supposed to do, and when it's needed and when it isn't. If Larry the Plumber
    is going to get that sort of logo, maybe he doesn't <em>need</em> a logo. And
    that sort of logo doesn't do the job that a real logo does, anyway. It doesn't
    set him apart; it doesn't make him memorable; it doesn't emphasize his specific
    special strengths. It just says that he's a plumber. But to communicate <em>that</em>,
    he doesn't <em>need</em> to licence a \"little drawing of a pipe and a wrench\".
    Except maybe if his target audience is \"people who don't know what a plumber
    is\". :-\\\r\nIt'd be better if he thought instead about what his invoices look
    like. Or that he mails out a special Season's Greetings card to his clients every
    year. Or even if he decides that when he visits clients who have kids, he brings
    a special popsicle for them, and the same one every time. That has more to do
    with what design and branding \u2013 in the broadest possible sense of these words
    \u2013 can do for him than an interchangable little clip-art logo.\r\nYes the
    world is full of perverse commodifications such as \"stock logos\". But that doesn't
    mean we all have to play. Or should, even."
  created: '2009-09-29 17:06:06'
- author:
    name: Manlio Napoli
    picture: 111362
  body: Nina, you couldn't say that better. A logo is pointless when it isn't supported
    by a visual identity manual.
  created: '2009-10-01 07:37:15'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: In case anyone's interested, [[http://www.istockphoto.com/forum_messages.php?threadid=119491&page=1|here'
    a thread from istock's forum]] that discusses (or mostly, wonders about) licensing
    for fonts used in the logos.
  created: '2009-10-28 19:24:15'
date: '2009-09-24 20:49:13'
title: 'iStock Logos: The Type Designer Position?'

---
