---
author:
  name: John Hudson
  picture: 110397
body: 'Someone writes: <i>The barrier is not monetary. The barrier is that the org
  is fairly script-centric - there&#39;s pretty much no interest in it for other than
  Roman scripts and vice versa.</i> <BR> <BR>I think that ATypI is already less focused
  exclusively on the Latin script than it was when I first attended a conference in
  1994. A long term change in the membership demographic would further diversify the
  focus of the association&#39;s interest. I would consider this a good thing. <BR>
  <BR>It is also worth noting that the Latin script is the sole or major major writing
  system of an incredibly large number of countries around the globe, so being Latin-centric
  does not necessarily mean being Euro-centric or Anglo-centric.'
comments:
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'A quick poll of our Argentinian contributors, if they&#39;re still reading:
    <BR> <BR>If ATypI membership were pegged at $40 US for countries with a GNI per
    capita similar to yours&#39;, would you join ATypI?'
  created: '2003-01-18 23:33:54'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: 'Before debating on the iniquities of South America further please read Hudson&#39;s
    post on Gross National Income. Note that Poland and the Czech Republic are a long
    way behind Argentina - are we seeing such problemswith Polish and Czech members
    whining about fees? <BR> <BR>Please also note the comparative wealth between Argentina
    and India - now whine some more about your situation? <BR> <BR>The figures point
    towards ATypI fees being something like half a days income in most Western European
    and North American states, and around two days income in Central Europe and South
    American states. <BR> <BR>This comparison is not worth arguing over, they eithr
    want to be members or they don&#39;t. <BR> <BR>A more problematic figure is the
    comparitive cost of attending the conference: a couple of weeks income in the
    better off places, versus a couple of months income in the less well off. <BR>
    <BR>There&#39;s no solution to this. But ATypI seems to have gone out of its way
    to put as much information as possible on the web in recent years, particularly
    in relation to the conference - this is superb access to those who cannot get
    to the conference itself &#40;as I might add is this forum&#41;. <BR> <BR>In addition
    there is no reason at all why members anywhere in the world canot organise their
    own local events. <BR> <BR>While I&#39;m here I might just note that there is
    comparitively low conference attendence and mmbership in Australia and New Zealand
    - again this is due to low local membership and the rigours of travelling - not
    the relative incomes.'
  created: '2003-01-18 23:40:32'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: <i>Note that Poland and the Czech Republic are a long way behind Argentina
    - are we seeing such problems with Polish and Czech members whining about fees?</i>
    <BR> <BR>Membership drops off sharply below GNI per capita of 19,000 &#40;with
    the exception of Spain&#41;. Argentina, Poland and the Czech Republic are all
    in the same economic range in the spreadsheet I am building. We currently have
    four Argentinian members, four Polish members and two Czech members. <BR> <BR>Perhaps
    the reason that our Argentinian colleagues are being so vocal is that, while the
    Poles and Czechs are gradually seeing their economies improve and are to be welcomed
    into the European Union in two years, the Argentinian economy is still very unstable,
    may collapse further, and Argentinians might justifiably fear that the world is
    turning away from them.
  created: '2003-01-18 23:52:12'
- author:
    name: matha_standun
    picture: 110362
  body: Great fun altogether.  <BR> <BR>First of all, I have nothing to say to anonymous
    insults. <BR> <BR>But I would ask either John or Jean Fran
  created: '2003-01-18 23:59:59'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: 'Hudson wrote: <BR>&#62;The point is that while there are plenty of people
    in the USA who cannot afford to pay $100 to join ATypI there are many other people
    who can, but there are other countries in which almost no one could afford such
    a sum. Adjusting this general  balance is a good idea. <BR> <BR>-------- <BR>
    <BR>I think this ignores the basic fact that it costs as much, if not more, to
    &#34;service&#34; these discounted memberships as it does any other membership.
    <BR> <BR>You can&#39;t apply local economic conditions to a &#34;global&#34; org.
    Espcially when the economics of that org are based around the economies of the
    more expensive countries in your list. <BR> <BR>The answer is simple: no you can&#39;t
    have discounted membership. Yes you can set up your own local organisation, with
    local economics in mind, and be somehow affiliated with ATypI. <BR> <BR>Hudson
    also wrote: <BR>I think that ATypI is already less focused exclusively on the
    Latin script than it was when I <BR>first attended a conference in 1994. <BR>
    <BR>------ <BR> <BR>I think most typophiles have a general interest in other script
    systems, you probably moreso than many. But the fact is that those more interested
    in Indic, Arabic or CJK for example are not really going to be that interested
    in ATypI as an org because there are other setups that reprsent their needs more
    accurately. <BR> <BR>If ATypI were to try to organise a conference in Tokyo it
    would fail miserably - you know this as well as I. <BR> <BR>As my previous post,
    look to Australia and New Zealand for some comparison too.'
  created: '2003-01-19 00:05:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; We currently have four Argentinian members, four Polish members and
    two Czech members. <BR> <BR>Hmmm, the proportionality is highly interesting when
    you consider country populations: <BR>Argentina and Poland are in the high 30s
    &#40;millions&#41;, while the Czech Republic is about 10. <BR> <BR>Also, another
    South American disadvantage is being far from the &#34;action&#34;, which makes
    them possibly more motivated to become members, in order to participate <i>somehow</i>.
    <BR> <BR>hhp <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2003-01-19 00:06:38'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: 'MArtha: <BR>&#62;And in the meantime, let it be known : I want to help, I
    don&#39;t give a shite about money and I can get to Malakoff from here in 30 minutes.
    <BR> <BR>---- <BR> <BR>Now you see, you just volunteered. Big difference. But
    this is the wrong place to do it.'
  created: '2003-01-19 00:15:16'
- author:
    name: tsprowl
    picture: 110458
  body: 'John Hudson wrote: While Tanya&#39;s idea is interesting and creative, I
    think it would distract the already over-extended volunteers who keep the association
    ticking. We need to find more efficient solutions, not more complex ones. <BR>
    <BR>John et al., <BR>My suggestion is not anything new. Here in Canada Graphic
    Designers must belong to the provincial associations where they live if they want
    membership to the Society of Graphic Designer&#39;s of Canada. The accreditation
    here is close to becoming law for all practicing designers, offers benefit packages,
    mediates, runs conferences, describes our By-Laws and Standards.  <BR> <BR>So
    to get that membership...well take my situation for instance: I have 4 years combined
    education and practice specifically in Graphic Design &#40;not including previous
    related feilds, illustration, the Arts, management ect.&#41; but I still must
    wait another 3 years and study their massive reading list until I can take the
    test, and interview in front of the their Evaluation Board, pray I pass, and only
    then am I a member. For now I&#39;m simply a &#34;Provisional Member&#34; regardless
    of any success or future certificates. 7 years total. <BR> <BR>The only creative
    and perhaps complex part of my suggestion is determining the fee/score ratio.
    While I don&#39;t suggest that the testing be as extreme as it is in Canada with
    all the time, and educational requirements; I strongly suggest you consider the
    approach before you write it off as complex. Many Associations run tests or review
    applicants before granting membership.  <BR> <BR>If the only pass to membership
    in ATypI is a cheque for base fees, then its not much more valuable then my Blockbuster
    card...and you run the risk of defending your Org in these situations where money
    becomes an issue &#40;of which its clearly not&#41; <BR> <BR>Reform isin&#39;t
    that hard. The proper volunteers and dedication its bound to propel itself smoothly
    and garner plenty of appreciation.'
  created: '2003-01-19 00:22:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: '&#60;i&#62;I think this ignores the basic fact that it costs as much, if
    not more, to &#34;service&#34; these discounted memberships as it does any other
    membership.&#60;i&#62; <BR> <BR>I&#39;ve been very careful to take this into account
    while thinking about this. I mentioned earlier that ATypI needs to find more efficient
    solutions, and this includes more efficient membership management and service.
    The association needs to do this anyway, regardless of whether fees are adjusted,
    because we need to free up resources for other things. <BR> <BR>There is also
    an economy of scale at work here: servicing two members does not cost double what
    it costs to service one. I suspect we are probably already near the point at which,
    for example, doubling the number of members to be serviced would not have a significant
    impact on resources, presuming an efficient management system. If you can service
    500 members, you can probably service a thousand at not much more cost. <BR> <BR>I
    disagree with your assessment. I think there are grounds for discounted membership
    <i>and</i> a practical model for implementing it without risking a decrease in
    overall revenues. Of course there are further issues to consider, but these should
    be looked at by the ATypI board. I&#39;m encouraged by the figures I have run,
    and think the possibility is worth the board&#39;s attention. I certainly don&#39;t
    think it is the place of an anonymous poster to a discussion forum to tell anyone
    &#39;no you can&#39;t have discounted membership&#39;.'
  created: '2003-01-19 00:25:46'
- author:
    name: matha_standun
    picture: 110362
  body: '&#62; I think this ignores the basic fact that it <BR>&#62; costs as much,
    if not more, to &#34;service&#34; <BR>&#62; these discounted memberships as it
    does any  <BR>&#62; other membership.  <BR> <BR>What are you shiteing on about?
    <BR>What service? What does it cost to do nothing for a year? <BR>They pay their
    fees, nothing happens, they pay their fees again...If they have the cash they
    can go to a conference. What srevice? In an assocation there&#39;s not supposed
    to be any &#34;service&#34;. <BR> <BR>&#62; Now you see, you just volunteered.
    Big <BR>&#62; difference. But this is the wrong place to do  <BR>&#62; it. <BR>
    <BR>&#34;Volunteered?&#34; - When you pay your membership in an association you
    volunteer. After that, it&#39;s a question of communication. You should look up
    the word &#39;association&#39; in the dictionary and read the rest of it while
    you&#39;re at it. <BR>M. <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2003-01-19 00:28:23'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: 'Papazian: <BR>Also, another South American disadvantage is being far from
    the &#34;action&#34;, which makes them <BR>                                    possibly
    more motivated to become members, in order to participate somehow.  <BR> <BR>----------
    <BR> <BR> <BR>What we need to do then is nuke Central America, then tow South
    America into the central North Atlantic where its citizens can have easy access
    to both Europe and North America.... <BR> <BR>Nope, that won&#39;t work, because
    Northern Europe will no longer benifit from the Gulf Stream and we&#39;ll have
    a new ice age. <BR> <BR>How about we develop some kind of technology that makes
    geography largely irrelevant - I don&#39;t know, perhaps we could call it &#34;the
    internet&#34;? <BR> <BR>Then these poor, starving, isolated South Americans, who
    can afford their ISP subs, can communicate with the global community. And their
    poor, starving, isolated South American colleagues, who can&#39;t afford their
    ISP subs, can tap into their knowledge by way of communal events - which they
    can actually organise thmselves! <BR> <BR>Woah, I&#39;m almost as much of a genius
    as Papazian thinks he is!'
  created: '2003-01-19 00:31:41'
- author:
    name: matha_standun
    picture: 110362
  body: 'There you go. <BR> <BR>Don&#39;t sell this guy any guns, folks. '
  created: '2003-01-19 00:39:21'
- author:
    name: tsprowl
    picture: 110458
  body: '<i>There is also an economy of scale at work here: servicing two members
    does not cost double what it costs to service one.</i> <BR> <BR>of course, and
    with a fee/score ratio the amount for my membership would probably be $500. but
    I&#39;m getting 500 bucks worth, which would be directly related to the amount
    of resources you give me. documents, mailouts, newsletters ect...which costs production/research
    ect &#40;but thats all provided by the members you attained with cheap fees because
    they have the info to share&#41; You get free resources from the big members.
    See... <BR>What can I contribute? - not much, I&#39;m just going to absorb the
    info, which costs you more <BR> <BR>service your members according to how much
    it costs DIRECTLY in relation to the information value. It does work.'
  created: '2003-01-19 00:41:41'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: 'Hudson: <BR>&#62;There is also an economy of scale at work here: servicing
    two members does not cost double what it costs to service one. <BR> <BR>------
    <BR> <BR>You&#39;re living in La-la land with Papazian.'
  created: '2003-01-19 00:46:07'
- author:
    name: matha_standun
    picture: 110362
  body: '&#62; but I&#39;m getting 500 bucks worth, which would be directly related
    to the amount of resources you   give me. documents, mailouts, newsletters ect...
    <BR> <BR>What? You mean my post has gone astray? What resources are we talking
    about here?'
  created: '2003-01-19 00:47:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Tanya writes: <i>If the only pass to membership in ATypI is a cheque for
    base fees, then its not much more valuable then my Blockbuster card...</i> <BR>
    <BR>ATypI membership used to require recommendation of existing members, review,
    etc., because the association was basically a private club for type manufacturers
    and type designers. Over the past decade, ability to pay has indeed become pretty
    much the sole criterion for membership. Remarkably, this has not generally lowered
    the prestige of the association, such as it is: the quality of membership remains
    high. The risk of devaluation of membership is there, but it hasn&#39;t hit in
    any significant way. Indeed, I think the increased diversity of membership has
    been very positive, offsetting the risk. <BR> <BR>The GDC is a professional association
    in much the same way that doctors and lawyers have such associations. It provides
    an organisation framework for defining ethical business practices, pricing norms,
    etc. There are very tangible benefits to membership and also tangible benefits
    to clients in knowing that the designers they hire belong to such an association.
    ATypI doesn&#39;t really function this way: it is a social and business association
    in which type designers, type vendors and font technology meet to exchange information,
    discuss common concerns, and celebrate a common love of typography. The latter
    aspect also attracts graphic designers, printers and other people with an interest
    in type. That is a very different constitution than a professional association
    like the GDC, in which all the members are basically involved in the same kind
    of work. One of the peculiarities of ATypI is that most of my clients are also
    members, which would certainly not be true of most professional associations.'
  created: '2003-01-19 00:57:17'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: Matha, if you don&#39;t get any benefits through membership, then why pay?
    Are you inadvertantly firing a warning shot across the bow of South America? <BR>
    <BR>You don&#39;t volunteer by paying your subs, except to get notification of
    events, some newsletter, discounted entry... <BR> <BR>You volunteer by going to
    meetings/events and saying &#34;I want to help, what can I do?&#34;. <BR> <BR>If
    you don&#39;t understand that there&#39;s a cost in servicing membership then
    I don&#39;t think there&#39;s much point in the discussion. <BR> <BR>&#40;BTW,
    you have a thorough misunderstanding of the word &#34;shite&#34;&#41;
  created: '2003-01-19 00:59:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: <i>You&#39;re living in La-la land with Papazian.</i> <BR> <BR>Er, no, I&#39;m
    living on the ATypI board, planning an ATypI conference in my city, am in very
    regular contact with the people responsible for managing membership, and quite
    familiar with the costs incurred by this association. <BR> <BR>Meanwhile, you&#39;re
    skulking around posting anonymous messages to discussion forums, making it impossible
    to judge whether your opinions are worth considering. I don&#39;t know who you
    are or what motivates you, so I don&#39;t see much point in continuing a discussion
    with you. You may have experience and insights that inform what you say, or you
    may be talking out of your arse. I have no way of knowing, so I&#39;m going to
    stop talking with you. <BR> <BR>I came to the same conclusion years ago when debating
    with &#39;Apostrophe&#39;. People who hide their identities are not worth talking
    to.
  created: '2003-01-19 01:03:32'
- author:
    name: matha_standun
    picture: 110362
  body: I&#39;ll second that John. <BR>I live and learn. I accidentally discovered
    I could say &#39;shite&#39; in here and now I know I can say &#39;arse&#39; too.
    <BR>Cool. <BR> <BR>I have a doubt now, though. I hope there are no meetings going
    on in France without me knowing. <BR> <BR>M. <BR> <BR>
  created: '2003-01-19 01:15:56'
- author:
    name: matha_standun
    picture: 110362
  body: '&#62;you have a thorough misunderstanding of the word &#34;shite&#34; <BR>
    <BR>Really? <BR>So you&#39;re the expert, then?'
  created: '2003-01-19 01:20:24'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: 'Hudson: <BR>&#62; Er, no, I&#39;m living on the ATypI board... <BR> <BR>Is
    that uncomfortable for them? <BR> <BR>In all seriousness, you just proposed that
    doubling the membership would not result in a doubling of the costs associated
    with servicing that membership. <BR> <BR>I say you&#39;re living in la-la land
    because you&#39;ve no hope whatsoever of getting even remotely close to doubling
    the membership. <BR> <BR>Board member and ATypI organiser/volunteer or not. <BR>
    <BR>As to who I am, I don&#39;t see that it matters. Either my argument carries
    weight or it does not. Your&#39;s carries no more wieght because you are John
    Hudson, ATypI board member. <BR> <BR>On the other hand, knowing a Hrant&#39;s
    a Hrant, and having his AK47 close to hand &#40;quite possibly in his hand&#41;,
    does help one discount his posts immediately.'
  created: '2003-01-19 01:24:18'
- author:
    name: matha_standun
    picture: 110362
  body: '&#62; As to who I am, I don&#39;t see that it matters.  <BR> <BR>It doesn&#39;t
    <BR> <BR>&#62; Either my argument carries weight or it does not.  <BR> <BR>It
    does not <BR> <BR>And remember, a chara, there are worse things than AKs in this
    world. <BR> <BR>BTW what is your point of view? You&#39;ve disagreed with everone
    but you haven&#39;t actually said anything. '
  created: '2003-01-19 01:30:34'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: I have to agree with John here. If you&#39;re going to go after people, be
    sincere about it and identify yourself. It&#39;s like you&#39;re afraid of something.
    I don&#39;t get it.
  created: '2003-01-19 01:38:41'
- author:
    name: matha_standun
    picture: 110362
  body: John, <BR> <BR>What is happening on a local level in ATypI?
  created: '2003-01-19 01:44:49'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: Matha, you&#39;re not understanding what I&#39;m writing. Not my problem.
    Worse things than AK&#39;s? Yep, idiots who boast of carrying them. <BR> <BR>John,
    not afraid of anything, not here anyway. I could write a name, but would it mean
    anything unless you knew that name? If you knew the name that would just reinforce
    any prejudice you may have. <BR> <BR>So I write as &#34;this form is busted&#34;
    &#40;please do something about it?&#41; - so no prejudice either way. Take from
    that what you like. <BR> <BR>Hudson wants to show his credentials and his board
    membership, but he does not speak for the board here so why should it matter?
  created: '2003-01-19 01:55:53'
- author:
    name: matha_standun
    picture: 110362
  body: You&#39;re not understanding me either, a chara. AKs are old hat. You&#39;re
    showing your age, or you&#39;re watching too much TV. In any case, you&#39;re
    talking through your arse, as John rightly pointed out. <BR> <BR>And as to writing
    your name, go for it, I dare you.
  created: '2003-01-19 02:01:25'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: 'Matha: What is happening on a local level in ATypI? <BR> <BR>Nothing - no
    one seems to volunteer and not many of the country delegates appear able to take
    the initiative themselves <BR> <BR>Oh, and to answer the question - no, ATypI
    is not elitist. As previously discussed the fees are actually pretty low and there
    is no test to pass to gain membership - which is not the case with other such
    organisations.'
  created: '2003-01-19 02:02:02'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: 'My name!? Wow a dare, got to answer to that, don&#39;t I: T Fib.'
  created: '2003-01-19 02:10:44'
- author:
    name: matha_standun
    picture: 110362
  body: '&#62; no one seems to volunteer... <BR> <BR>If there&#39;s no local structure,
    this would be difficult. Something to fix, maybe. <BR> <BR>&#62; and not many
    of the country delegates appear able to take the initiative themselves  <BR> <BR>Do
    you have an example or two of country delegates who do take the initiative? Might
    give us a few ideas. <BR> <BR>I don&#39;t think ATypI is elitist but like any
    other longstanding institution it doesn&#39;t hurt to introspect a bit. <BR> <BR>Any
    chance of a first name? Just to make the discussion more balanced. <BR> <BR>Matha.
    <BR>'
  created: '2003-01-19 02:12:35'
date: '2003-01-18 23:24:53'
node_type: forum
title: Archive through January 18, 2003

---
